{"id": "6831437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6831437", "title": "Adrian Dix", "text": "Adrian Dix\n\nAdrian Dix (born April 20, 1964) is a Canadian politician, serving as the MLA for Vancouver-Kingsway in British Columbia and the current Minister of Health. He has also served as the leader of the British Columbia New Democratic Party from 2011–2014. He was first elected to the Legislative Assembly of British Columbia in the 2005 provincial election. Dix's decision in 2013 to be replaced as leader came following the party's disappointing result in the May 2013 provincial election which the NDP lost despite a 20-point lead in the polls prior to the election campaign.\n\nAdrian Dix was born in Vancouver, to parents Ken and Hilda, immigrants from Ireland and Britain, respectively. His parents ran the Dix Insurance Agency Ltd. on West 41st Avenue in Vancouver until 2011 when his father retired and sold the business. Growing up in Vancouver, Dix was raised as an Anglican and attended both St. George's School and Point Grey Secondary. He then went on to study history and political science at the University of British Columbia. Dix has two siblings and currently lives in Vancouver with his wife Renée Saklikar, a poet and writer. Dix was diagnosed with Type-1 diabetes in his 20s.\n\nFluently bilingual, Dix lived in France as a young man and then worked in Ottawa for NDP MP Ian Waddell.\n\nHe served as Chief of Staff to BC Premier Glen Clark from 1996 to 1999, a position from which he was dismissed for back-dating a memo to protect Clark from conflict-of-interest charges. Dix has said of this incident, \"It was wrong, it was wrong. I'm out there and I've admitted it and people will judge. But I'm not trying to hide my mistake.\" This memo would later become a focus of a number of opposition BC Liberal Party ads in the 2013 provincial election.\n\nSubsequently, he went on to work as the executive director of Canadian Parents for French in their B.C./Yukon branch. The \"Vancouver Sun\" summarized his work in this position as \"successfully encouraging more school boards to offer French immersion programs.\"\n\nFrom 2001 to 2005 Dix was a political commentator in various media, writing a column for the \"Victoria Times-Colonist\" and \"The Source\", a prominent intercultural newspaper in Vancouver. He was also a contributor to \"The Tyee\" and the CBC.\n\nSince 2005, Dix has served as the MLA for Vancouver-Kingsway. He first served as the opposition critic for Children and Families and then served as the Health critic. As MLA, he cites among his achievements \"bringing insulin pumps to children with Type 1 diabetes and his work on a successful campaign to stop three schools from being closed in Vancouver-Kingsway.\"\n\nThe last candidate to publicly launch his leadership bid, Dix campaigned on a platform of eliminating the HST, rolling back reductions in the corporate tax rate, supporting the redirection of carbon tax revenue to pay for public transit and infrastructure that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, supporting an increase in the minimum wage rate to $10 per hour, creating a provincial child care system, restoring grants to the post-secondary students, reducing interest on student loans, and restoring the corporation capital tax on financial institutions.\n\nHis candidacy was endorsed by former interim BC NDP leader Joy MacPhail, amongst others.\n\nDix led throughout the voting, narrowly defeating rival Mike Farnworth on the third and final ballot with 51.8% of the vote.\n\nNearly all polls showed the NDP well ahead of the BC Liberals going into the 2013 election, with at least one showing the NDP ahead by as much as 20 points. Two months prior to the election, The Province newspaper's front page featured a column by pundit Michael Smyth with the banner headline: \"If This Man Kicked A Dog He Would Still Win The Election.\" However, in a result that shocked the party and political pundits, the BC Liberals won a fourth majority government. The BC NDP won 34 seats, one fewer than in 2009.\n\nDix announced on September 18, 2013 that he would resign as party leader once a new leader (John Horgan) would be chosen in 2014. He also announced his intention to run for re-election as an MLA in the next provincial election.\n\n"}
{"id": "47739855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47739855", "title": "Alan Gauld", "text": "Alan Gauld\n\nAlan Gauld (born 1932) is a British parapsychologist, psychologist and writer best known for his research on the history of hypnotism.\n\nGauld was born in Portland, Dorset. In the late 1950s, he attended Harvard University. He obtained an M.S. in 1958 and a PhD in 1962 from Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He taught psychology at the University of Nottingham and was the President of the Society for Psychical Research from 1989 to 1992.\n\nGauld has generally been skeptical of physical mediumship. He has claimed that ectoplasm materializations seem to \"smack very strongly of fraud and conjuring\", such as made from cheesecloth or net curtain. He states however that he believes there is genuine evidence for movement of objects during séances including the phenomena produced with the medium Daniel Dunglas Home. This is in opposition to other researchers who have declared that Home was fraudulent.\n\nHe has criticized the Scole experiment, a series of séances that members of the Society for Psychical Research investigated. During one of the séances there was \"spontaneous appearance of images on film\", though Gauld discovered that the locked box was \"easily opened in the dark, which allowed for easy substitution of film rolls.\"\n\nGauld's \"The Founders of Psychical Research\" (1968) documents early investigations into paranormal phenomena. The book received a mixed review by Robert Kent Donovan who praised the research but complained that Gauld was biased in support of the authenticity of the findings from the psychical researchers.\n\nPsychologist C. E. M. Hansel has criticized \"The Founders of Psychical Research\" for ignoring certain historical sources. Hansel noted that when discussing spiritualist mediums such as the Fox sisters or Eusapia Palladino, Gauld failed to \"report important observations that suggest physical rather than psychical explanations.\"\n\nHe has drawn criticism from historian Ruth Brandon for disputing the confession of the Fox sisters.\n\nGauld's book \"A History Of Hypnotism\" (1992) documents the history of hypnosis. It was positively reviewed by medical historian Roger Cooter in the \"British Medical Journal\" who recommended it as a \"useful reference tool.\" The book was also positively reviewed by philosopher Peter G. Sobol who wrote that \"with its broad coverage and attention to detail, this is an indispensable book for any future work on the history of hypnosis.\" Psychologist Geoffrey Blowers also praised the book commenting that \"he steers a clear path through the large, diverse literature and avoids a partisan stance on the findings to present a lively and informative account of this baffling phenomenon.\" Psychiatrist Melvin A. Gravitz described the book as a \"significant contribution to the field, which will stand as a hallmark of scholarship for many years.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1623", "title": "Andrew Jackson", "text": "Andrew Jackson\n\nAndrew Jackson (March 15, 1767 – June 8, 1845) was an American soldier and statesman who served as the seventh President of the United States from 1829 to 1837. Before being elected to the presidency, Jackson gained fame as a general in the United States Army and served in both houses of Congress. As president, Jackson sought to advance the rights of the \"common man\" against a \"corrupt aristocracy\" and to preserve the Union.\n\nBorn in the colonial Carolinas to a Scotch-Irish family in the decade before the American Revolutionary War, Jackson became a frontier lawyer and married Rachel Donelson Robards. He served briefly in the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate representing Tennessee. After resigning, he served as a justice on the Tennessee Supreme Court from 1798 until 1804. Jackson purchased a property later known as The Hermitage, and became a wealthy, slaveowning planter. In 1801, he was appointed colonel of the Tennessee militia and was elected its commander the following year. He led troops during the Creek War of 1813–1814, winning the Battle of Horseshoe Bend. The subsequent Treaty of Fort Jackson required the Creek surrender of vast lands in present-day Alabama and Georgia. In the concurrent war against the British, Jackson's victory in 1815 at the Battle of New Orleans made him a national hero. Jackson then led U.S. forces in the First Seminole War, which led to the annexation of Florida from Spain. Jackson briefly served as Florida's first territorial governor before returning to the Senate. He ran for president in 1824, winning a plurality of the popular and electoral vote. As no candidate won an electoral majority, the House of Representatives elected John Quincy Adams in a contingent election. In reaction to the alleged \"corrupt bargain\" between Adams and Henry Clay and the ambitious agenda of President Adams, Jackson's supporters founded the Democratic Party.\n\nJackson ran again in 1828, defeating Adams in a landslide. Jackson faced the threat of secession by South Carolina over what opponents called the \"Tariff of Abominations.\" The crisis was defused when the tariff was amended, and Jackson threatened the use of military force if South Carolina attempted to secede. In Congress, Henry Clay led the effort to reauthorize the Second Bank of the United States. Jackson, regarding the Bank as a corrupt institution, vetoed the renewal of its charter. After a lengthy struggle, Jackson and his allies thoroughly dismantled the Bank. In 1835, Jackson became the only president to completely pay off the national debt, fulfilling a longtime goal. His presidency marked the beginning of the ascendancy of the party \"spoils system\" in American politics. In 1830, Jackson signed the Indian Removal Act, which forcibly relocated most members of the Native American tribes in the South to Indian Territory. In foreign affairs, Jackson's administration concluded a \"most favored nation\" treaty with Great Britain, settled claims of damages against France from the Napoleonic Wars, and recognized the Republic of Texas. In January 1835, he survived the first assassination attempt on a sitting president.\n\nIn his retirement, Jackson remained active in Democratic Party politics, supporting the presidencies of Martin Van Buren and James K. Polk. Though fearful of its effects on the slavery debate, Jackson advocated the annexation of Texas, which was accomplished shortly before his death. Jackson has been widely revered in the United States as an advocate for democracy and the common man. Many of his actions, such as those during the Bank War, proved divisive, garnering both fervent support and strong opposition from many in the country. His reputation has suffered since the 1970s, largely due to his role in Indian removal. Surveys of historians and scholars have ranked Jackson favorably among United States presidents.\n\nAndrew Jackson was born on March 15, 1767, in the Waxhaws region of the Carolinas. His parents were Scots-Irish colonists Andrew and Elizabeth Hutchinson Jackson, Presbyterians who had emigrated from present day Northern Ireland two years earlier. Jackson's father was born in Carrickfergus, County Antrim, in current-day Northern Ireland, around 1738. Jackson's parents lived in the village of Boneybefore, also in County Antrim. His paternal family line originated in Killingswold Grove, Yorkshire, England.\n\nWhen they immigrated to North America in 1765, Jackson's parents probably landed in Philadelphia. Most likely they traveled overland through the Appalachian Mountains to the Scots-Irish community in the Waxhaws, straddling the border between North and South Carolina. They brought two children from Ireland, Hugh (born 1763) and Robert (born 1764). Jackson's father died in a logging accident while clearing land in February 1767 at the age of 29, three weeks before his son Andrew was born. Jackson, his mother, and his brothers lived with Jackson's aunt and uncle in the Waxhaws region, and Jackson received schooling from two nearby priests.\n\nJackson's exact birthplace is unclear because of a lack of knowledge of his mother's actions immediately following her husband's funeral. The area was so remote that the border between North and South Carolina had not been officially surveyed. In 1824 Jackson wrote a letter saying that he was born on the plantation of his uncle James Crawford in Lancaster County, South Carolina. Jackson may have claimed to be a South Carolinian because the state was considering nullification of the Tariff of 1824, which he opposed. In the mid-1850s, second-hand evidence indicated that he might have been born at a different uncle's home in North Carolina. As a young boy, Jackson was easily offended and was considered something of a bully. He was, however, said to have taken a group of younger and weaker boys under his wing and been very kind to them.\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War, Jackson's eldest brother, Hugh, died from heat exhaustion after the Battle of Stono Ferry on June 20, 1779. Anti-British sentiment intensified following the brutal Waxhaws Massacre on May 29, 1780. Jackson's mother encouraged him and his elder brother Robert to attend the local militia drills. Soon, they began to help the militia as couriers. They served under Colonel William Richardson Davie at the Battle of Hanging Rock on August 6. Andrew and Robert were captured by the British in 1781 while staying at the home of the Crawford family. When Andrew refused to clean the boots of a British officer, the officer slashed at the youth with a sword, leaving him with scars on his left hand and head, as well as an intense hatred for the British. Robert also refused to do as commanded and was struck with the sword. The two brothers were held as prisoners, contracted smallpox, and nearly starved to death in captivity.\n\nLater that year, their mother Elizabeth secured the brothers' release. She then began to walk both boys back to their home in the Waxhaws, a distance of some 40 miles (64 km). Both were in very poor health. Robert, who was far worse, rode on the only horse that they had, while Andrew walked behind them. In the final two hours of the journey, a torrential downpour began which worsened the effects of the smallpox. Within two days of arriving back home, Robert was dead and Andrew in mortal danger. After nursing Andrew back to health, Elizabeth volunteered to nurse American prisoners of war on board two British ships in the Charleston harbor, where there had been an outbreak of cholera. In November, she died from the disease and was buried in an unmarked grave. Andrew became an orphan at age 14. He blamed the British personally for the loss of his brothers and mother.\n\nAfter the Revolutionary War, Jackson received a sporadic education in a local Waxhaw school. On bad terms with much of his extended family, he boarded with several different people. In 1781, he worked for a time as a saddle-maker, and eventually taught school. He apparently prospered in neither profession. In 1784, he left the Waxhaws region for Salisbury, North Carolina, where he studied law under attorney Spruce Macay. With the help of various lawyers, he was able to learn enough to qualify for the bar. In September 1787, Jackson was admitted to the North Carolina bar. Shortly thereafter, a friend helped him get appointed to a vacant prosecutor position in the Western District of North Carolina, which would later become the state of Tennessee. During his travel west, Jackson bought his first slave and in 1788, having been offended by fellow lawyer Waightstill Avery, fought his first duel. The duel ended with both men firing into the air, having made a secret agreement to do so before the engagement.\n\nJackson moved to the small frontier town of Nashville in 1788, where he lived as a boarder with Rachel Stockly Donelson, the widow of John Donelson. Here Jackson became acquainted with their daughter, Rachel Donelson Robards. The younger Rachel was in an unhappy marriage with Captain Lewis Robards; he was subject to fits of jealous rage. The two were separated in 1790. According to Jackson, he married Rachel after hearing that Robards had obtained a divorce. Her divorce had not been made final, making Rachel's marriage to Jackson bigamous and therefore invalid. After the divorce was officially completed, Rachel and Jackson remarried in 1794. To complicate matters further, evidence shows that Rachel had been living with Jackson and referred to herself as Mrs. Jackson before the petition for divorce was ever made. It was not uncommon on the frontier for relationships to be formed and dissolved unofficially, as long as they were recognized by the community.\n\nIn 1794, Jackson formed a partnership with fellow lawyer John Overton, dealing in claims for land reserved by treaty for the Cherokee and Chickasaw. Like many of their contemporaries, they dealt in such claims although the land was in Indian country. Most of the transactions involved grants made under the 'land grab' act of 1783 that briefly opened Indian lands west of the Appalachians within North Carolina to claim by that state's residents. He was one of the three original investors who founded Memphis, Tennessee, in 1819.\n\nAfter moving to Nashville, Jackson became a protege of William Blount, a friend of the Donelsons and one of the most powerful men in the territory. Jackson became attorney general in 1791, and he won election as a delegate to the Tennessee constitutional convention in 1796. When Tennessee achieved statehood that year, he was elected its only U.S. Representative. He was a member of the Democratic-Republican Party, the dominant party in Tennessee. Jackson soon became associated with the more radical, pro-French and anti-British wing. He strongly opposed the Jay Treaty and criticized George Washington for allegedly removing Republicans from public office. Jackson joined several other Republican congressmen in voting against a resolution of thanks for Washington, a vote that would later haunt him when he sought the presidency. In 1797, the state legislature elected him as U.S. Senator. Jackson seldom participated in debate and found the job dissatisfying. He pronounced himself \"disgusted with the administration\" of President John Adams and resigned the following year without explanation. Upon returning home, with strong support from western Tennessee, he was elected to serve as a judge of the Tennessee Supreme Court at an annual salary of $600. Jackson's service as a judge is generally viewed as a success and earned him a reputation for honesty and good decision making. Jackson resigned the judgeship in 1804. His official reason for resigning was ill health. He had been suffering financially from poor land ventures, and so it is also possible that he wanted to return full-time to his business interests.\n\nAfter arriving in Tennessee, Jackson won the appointment of judge advocate of the Tennessee militia. In 1802, while serving on the Tennessee Supreme Court, he declared his candidacy for major general, or commander, of the Tennessee militia, a position voted on by the officers. At that time, most free men were members of the militia. The organizations, intended to be called up in case of conflict with Europeans or Indians, resembled large social clubs. Jackson saw it as a way to advance his stature. With strong support from western Tennessee, he tied with John Sevier with seventeen votes. Sevier was a popular Revolutionary War veteran and former governor, the recognized leader of politics in eastern Tennessee. On February 5, Governor Archibald Roane broke the tie in Jackson's favor. Jackson had also presented Roane with evidence of land fraud against Sevier. Subsequently, in 1803, when Sevier announced his intention to regain the governorship, Roane released the evidence. Sevier insulted Jackson in public, and the two nearly fought a duel over the matter. Despite the charges leveled against Sevier, he defeated Roane, and continued to serve as governor until 1809.\n\nIn addition to his legal and political career, Jackson prospered as planter, slave owner, and merchant. He built a home and the first general store in Gallatin, Tennessee, in 1803. The next year, he acquired the Hermitage, a plantation in Davidson County, near Nashville. He later added to the plantation, which eventually totaled . The primary crop was cotton, grown by slaves—Jackson began with nine, owned as many as 44 by 1820, and later up to 150, placing him among the planter elite. Jackson also co-owned with his son Andrew Jackson Jr. the Halcyon plantation in Coahoma County, Mississippi, which housed 51 slaves at the time of his death. Throughout his lifetime Jackson may have owned as many as 300 slaves.\n\nMen, women, and child slaves were owned by Jackson on three sections of the Hermitage plantation. Slaves lived in extended family units of between five and ten persons and were quartered in cabins made either of brick or logs. The size and quality of the Hermitage slave quarters exceeded the standards of his times. To help slaves acquire food, Jackson supplied them with guns, knives, and fishing equipment. At times he paid his slaves with monies and coins to trade in local markets. The Hermitage plantation was a profit-making enterprise. Jackson permitted slaves to be whipped to increase productivity or if he believed his slaves' offenses were severe enough. At various times he posted advertisements for fugitive slaves who had escaped from his plantation. In one advertisement placed in the Tennessee Gazette in October 1804, Jackson offered \"ten dollars extra, for every hundred lashes any person will give him, to the amount of three hundred.\"\n\nThe controversy surrounding his marriage to Rachel remained a sore point for Jackson, who deeply resented attacks on his wife's honor. By May 1806, Charles Dickinson, who, like Jackson, raced horses, had published an attack on Jackson in the local newspaper, and it resulted in a written challenge from Jackson to a duel. Since Dickinson was considered an expert shot, Jackson determined it would be best to let Dickinson turn and fire first, hoping that his aim might be spoiled in his quickness; Jackson would wait and take careful aim at Dickinson. Dickinson did fire first, hitting Jackson in the chest. The bullet that struck Jackson was so close to his heart that it could not be removed. Under the rules of dueling, Dickinson had to remain still as Jackson took aim and shot and killed him. Jackson's behavior in the duel outraged men in Tennessee, who called it a brutal, cold-blooded killing and saddled Jackson with a reputation as a violent, vengeful man. He became a social outcast.\n\nAfter the Sevier affair and the duel, Jackson was looking for a way to salvage his reputation. He chose to align himself with former Vice President Aaron Burr, who after leaving office in 1805, his political career over after the killing of Alexander Hamilton in a duel in 1804, went on a tour of what was then the western United States. Burr was extremely well received by the people of Tennessee, and stayed for five days at the Hermitage. Burr's true intentions are not known with certainty. He seems to have been planning a military operation to conquer Spanish Florida and drive the Spanish from Texas. To many westerners like Jackson, the promise seemed enticing. Western American settlers had long held bitter feelings towards Spain due to territorial disputes and the persistent failure of the Spanish to keep Indians living on their lands from raiding American settlements. and by Spain's disinterest in returning fugitive slaves. On October 4, 1806, Jackson addressed the Tennessee militia, declaring that the men should be \"at a moment's warning ready to march.\" On the same day, he wrote to James Winchester, proclaiming that the United States \"can conquer not only the Floridas [at that time there was an East Florida and a West Florida.], but all Spanish North America.\" He continued:\n\nJackson agreed to provide boats and other provisions for the expedition. However, on November 10, he learned from a military captain that Burr's plans apparently included seizure of New Orleans, then part of the Louisiana Territory of the United States, and incorporating it, along with lands won from the Spanish, into a new empire. He was further outraged when he learned from the same man of the involvement of Brigadier General James Wilkinson, whom he deeply disliked, in the plan. Jackson acted cautiously at first, but wrote letters to public officials, including President Thomas Jefferson, vaguely warning them about the scheme. In December, Jefferson, a political opponent of Burr, issued a proclamation declaring that a treasonous plot was underway in the West and calling for the arrest of the perpetrators. Jackson, safe from arrest because of his extensive paper trail, organized the militia. Burr was soon captured, and the men were sent home. Jackson traveled to Richmond, Virginia, to testify on Burr's behalf in trial. The defense team decided against placing him on the witness stand, fearing his remarks were too provocative. Burr was acquitted of treason, despite Jefferson's efforts to have him convicted. Jackson endorsed James Monroe for president in 1808 against James Madison. The latter was part of the Jeffersonian wing of the Democratic-Republican Party. Jackson lived relatively quietly at the Hermitage in the years after the Burr trial, eventually accumulating 640 acres of land.\n\nLeading up to 1812, the United States found itself increasingly drawn into international conflict. Formal hostilities with Spain or France never materialized, but tensions with Britain increased for a number of reasons. Among these was the desire of many Americans for more land, particularly British Canada and Florida, the latter still controlled by Spain, Britain's European ally. On June 18, 1812, Congress officially declared war on the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, beginning the War of 1812. Jackson responded enthusiastically, sending a letter to Washington offering 2,500 volunteers. However, the men were not called up for many months. Biographer Robert V. Remini claims that Jackson saw the apparent slight as payback by the Madison administration for his support of Burr and Monroe. Meanwhile, the United States military repeatedly suffered devastating defeats on the battlefield.\n\nOn January 10, 1813, Jackson led an army of 2,071 volunteers to New Orleans to defend the region against British and Native American attacks. He had been instructed to serve under General Wilkinson, who commanded Federal forces in New Orleans. Lacking adequate provisions, Wilkinson ordered Jackson to halt in Natchez, then part of the Mississippi Territory, and await further orders. Jackson reluctantly obeyed. The newly appointed Secretary of War, John Armstrong Jr., sent a letter to Jackson dated February 6 ordering him to dismiss his forces and to turn over his supplies to Wilkinson. In reply to Armstrong on March 15, Jackson defended the character and readiness of his men, and promised to turn over his supplies. He also promised, instead of dismissing the troops without provisions in Natchez, to march them back to Nashville. The march was filled with agony. Many of the men had fallen ill. Jackson and his officers turned over their horses to the sick. He paid for provisions for the men out of his own pocket. The soldiers began referring to their commander as \"Hickory\" because of his toughness, and Jackson became known as \"Old Hickory.\" The army arrived in Nashville within about a month. Jackson's actions earned him respect and praise from the people of Tennessee. Jackson faced financial ruin, until his former aide-de-camp Thomas Benton persuaded Secretary Armstrong to order the army to pay the expenses Jackson had incurred. On June 14, Jackson served as a second in a duel on behalf of his junior officer William Carroll against Jesse Benton, the brother of Thomas. In September, Jackson and his top cavalry officer, Brigadier General John Coffee, were involved in a street brawl with the Benton brothers. Jackson was severely wounded by Jesse with a gunshot to the shoulder.\n\nOn August 30, a group of Muscogee (also known as Creek Indians) called the Red Sticks, so named for the color of their war paint, perpetrated the Fort Mims massacre. During the massacre, hundreds of white American settlers and non-Red Stick Creeks were slaughtered. The Red Sticks, led by chiefs Red Eagle and Peter McQueen, had broken away from the rest of the Creek Confederacy, which wanted peace with the United States. They were allied with Tecumseh, a Shawnee chief who had launched Tecumseh's War against the United States, and who was fighting alongside the British. The resulting conflict became known as the Creek War.\nJackson, with 2,500 men, was ordered to crush the hostile Indians. On October 10, he set out on the expedition, his arm still in a sling from fighting the Bentons. Jackson established Fort Strother as a supply base. On November 3, Coffee defeated a band of Red Sticks at the Battle of Tallushatchee. Coming to the relief of friendly Creeks besieged by Red Sticks, Jackson won another decisive victory at the Battle of Talladega. In the winter, Jackson, encamped at Fort Strother, faced a severe shortage of troops due to the expiration of enlistments and chronic desertions. He sent Coffee with the cavalry (which abandoned him) back to Tennessee to secure more enlistments. Jackson decided to combine his force with that of the Georgia militia, and marched to meet the Georgia troops. From January 22–24, 1814, while on their way, the Tennessee militia and allied Muscogee were attacked by the Red Sticks at the Battles of Emuckfaw and Enotachopo Creek. Jackson's troops repelled the attackers, but outnumbered, were forced to withdraw to Fort Strother. Jackson, now with over 2,000 troops, marched most of his army south to confront the Red Sticks at a fortress they had constructed at a bend in the Tallapoosa River. On March 27, enjoying an advantage of more than 2 to 1, he engaged them at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend. An initial artillery barrage did little damage to the well-constructed fort. A subsequent Infantry charge, in addition to an assault by Coffee's cavalry and diversions caused by the friendly Creeks, overwhelmed the Red Sticks.\n\nThe campaign ended three weeks later with Red Eagle's surrender, although some Red Sticks such as McQueen fled to East Florida. On June 8, Jackson accepted a commission as brigadier general in the United States Army, and 10 days later became a major general, in command of the Seventh Military Division. Subsequently, Jackson, with Madison's approval, imposed the Treaty of Fort Jackson. The treaty required the Muscogee, including those who had not joined the Red Sticks, to surrender 23 million acres (8,093,713 ha) of land to the United States. Most of the Creeks bitterly acquiesced. Though in ill-health from dysentery, Jackson turned his attention to defeating Spanish and British forces. Jackson accused the Spanish of arming the Red Sticks and of violating the terms of their neutrality by allowing British soldiers into the Floridas. The first charge was true, while the second ignored the fact that it was Jackson's threats to invade Florida which had caused them to seek British protection. In the November 7 Battle of Pensacola, Jackson defeated British and Spanish forces in a short skirmish. The Spanish surrendered and the British fled. Weeks later, he learned that the British were planning an attack on New Orleans, which sat on the mouth of the Mississippi River and held immense strategic and commercial value. Jackson abandoned Pensacola to the Spanish, placed a force in Mobile, Alabama to guard against a possible invasion there, and rushed the rest of his force west to defend the city.\n\nThe Creeks coined their own name for Jackson, \"Jacksa Chula Harjo\" or \"Jackson, old and fierce.\"\n\nAfter arriving in New Orleans on December 1, 1814, Jackson instituted martial law in the city, as he worried about the loyalty of the city's Creole and Spanish inhabitants. At the same time, he formed an alliance with Jean Lafitte's smugglers, and formed military units consisting of African-Americans and Muscogees, in addition to recruiting volunteers in the city. Jackson received some criticism for paying white and non-white volunteers the same salary. These forces, along with U.S. Army regulars and volunteers from surrounding states, joined with Jackson's force in defending New Orleans. The approaching British force, led by Admiral Alexander Cochrane and later General Edward Pakenham, consisted of over 10,000 soldiers, many of whom had served in the Napoleonic Wars. Jackson only had about 5,000 men, most of whom were inexperienced and poorly trained.\nThe British arrived on the east bank of the Mississippi River on the morning of December 23. That evening, Jackson attacked the British and temporarily drove them back. On January 8, 1815, the British launched a major frontal assault against Jackson's defenses. An initial artillery barrage by the British did little damage to the well-constructed American defenses. Once the morning fog had cleared, the British launched a frontal assault, and their troops made easy targets for the Americans protected by their parapets. Despite managing to temporarily drive back the American right flank, the overall attack ended in disaster. For the battle on January 8, Jackson admitted to only 71 total casualties. Of these, 13 men were killed, 39 wounded, and 19 missing or captured. The British admitted 2,037 casualties. Of these, 291 men were killed (including Pakenham), 1,262 wounded, and 484 missing or captured. After the battle, the British retreated from the area, and open hostilities ended shortly thereafter when word spread that the Treaty of Ghent had been signed in Europe that December. Coming in the waning days of the war, Jackson's victory made him a national hero, as the country celebrated the end of what many called the \"Second American Revolution\" against the British. By a Congressional resolution on February 27, 1815, Jackson was given the Thanks of Congress and awarded a Congressional Gold Medal.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville (\"underwhelmed\" by Jackson according to a 2001 commentator) later wrote in \"Democracy in America\" that Jackson \"was raised to the Presidency, and has been maintained there, solely by the recollection of a victory which he gained, twenty years ago, under the walls of New Orleans.\" Some have claimed that, because the war was already ended by the preliminary signing of the Treaty of Ghent, Jackson's victory at New Orleans was without importance aside from making him a celebrated figure. However, the Spanish, who had sold the Louisiana Territory to France, disputed France's right to sell it to the United States through the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. If the British defeated Jackson at New Orleans, they might have held on to the territory or returned it to Spain. Furthermore, Article IX of the Treaty of Ghent stipulated that the United States must return land taken from the Creeks to their original owners, essentially undoing the Treaty of Fort Jackson. Thanks to Jackson's victory at New Orleans, the American government felt that it could safely ignore that provision and it kept the lands that Jackson had acquired.\n\nJackson, still not knowing for certain of the treaty's signing, refused to lift martial law in the city. In March 1815, after U.S. District Court Judge Dominic A. Hall signed a writ of \"habeas corpus\" on behalf of a Louisiana legislator whom Jackson had detained, Jackson ordered Hall's arrest. State senator Louis Louaillier had written an anonymous piece in the New Orleans newspaper, challenging Jackson's refusal to release the militia after the British ceded the field of battle. He too was put in jail. Jackson did not relent his campaign of suppressing dissent until after ordering the arrest of a Louisiana legislator, a federal judge, and a lawyer, and after the intervention of State Judge Joshua Lewis. Lewis was simultaneously serving under Jackson in the militia, and also had signed a writ of \"habeas corpus\" against Jackson, his commanding officer, seeking Judge Hall's release.\n\nCivilian authorities in New Orleans had reason to fear Jackson—he summarily ordered the execution of six members of the militia who had attempted to leave. Their deaths were not well publicized until the Coffin Handbills were circulated during his 1828 presidential campaign.\n\nFollowing the war, Jackson remained in command of troops on the southern border of the U.S. He conducted business from the Hermitage. He signed treaties with the Cherokee and Chickasaw which gained for the United States large parts of Tennessee and Kentucky. The treaty with the Chickasaw, finally agreed to later in the year, is commonly known as the Jackson Purchase.\n\nSeveral Native American tribes, which became known as the Seminole, straddled the border between the U.S. and Florida. The Seminole, in alliance with escaped slaves, frequently raided Georgia settlements before retreating back into Florida. These skirmishes continually escalated, and the conflict is now known as the First Seminole War. In 1816, Jackson led a detachment into Florida which destroyed the Negro Fort, a community of escaped slaves and their descendants. Jackson was ordered by President Monroe in December 1817 to lead a campaign in Georgia against the Seminole and Creek Indians. Jackson was also charged with preventing Florida from becoming a refuge for runaway slaves, after Spain promised freedom to fugitive slaves. Critics later alleged that Jackson exceeded orders in his Florida actions. His orders from President Monroe were to \"terminate the conflict.\" Jackson believed the best way to do this was to seize Florida from Spain once and for all. Before departing, Jackson wrote to Monroe, \"Let it be signified to me through any channel ... that the possession of the Floridas would be desirable to the United States, and in sixty days it will be accomplished.\"\n\nJackson invaded Florida on March 15, 1818, capturing Pensacola. He crushed Seminole and Spanish resistance in the region and captured two British agents, Robert Ambrister and Alexander Arbuthnot, who had been working with the Seminole. After a brief trial, Jackson executed both of the men, causing a diplomatic incident with the British. Jackson's actions polarized Monroe's cabinet, some of whom argued that Jackson had gone against Monroe's orders and violated the Constitution, since the United States had not declared war upon Spain. He was defended by Secretary of State John Quincy Adams. Adams thought that Jackson's conquest of Florida would force Spain to finally sell the province, and Spain did indeed sell Florida to the United States in the Adams–Onís Treaty of 1819. A congressional investigation exonerated Jackson, but he was deeply angered by the criticism he received, particularly from Speaker of the House Henry Clay. After the ratification of the Adams–Onís Treaty in 1821, Jackson resigned from the army and briefly served as the territorial Governor of Florida before returning to Tennessee.\n\nIn the spring of 1822, Jackson suffered a physical breakdown. His body had two bullets lodged in it, and he had grown exhausted from years of hard military campaigning. He regularly coughed up blood, and his entire body shook. Jackson feared that he was on the brink of death. After several months of rest, he recovered. During his convalescence, Jackson's thoughts increasingly turned to national affairs. He obsessed over rampant corruption in the Monroe administration and grew to detest the Second Bank of the United States, blaming it for causing the Panic of 1819 by contracting credit.\n\nJackson turned down an offer to run for governor of his home state, but accepted John Overton's plan to have the legislature nominate him for president. On July 22, 1822, he was officially nominated by the Tennessee legislature. Jackson had come to dislike Secretary of the Treasury William H. Crawford, who had been the most vocal critic of Jackson in Monroe's cabinet, and he hoped to prevent Tennessee's electoral votes from going to Crawford. Yet Jackson's nomination garnered a welcoming response even outside of Tennessee, as many Americans appreciated Jackson's attacks on banks. The Panic of 1819 had devastated the fortunes of many, and banks and politicians seen as supportive of banks were particularly unpopular. With his growing political viability, Jackson emerged as one of the five major presidential candidates, along with Crawford, Adams, Clay, and Secretary of War John C. Calhoun. During the Era of Good Feelings, the Federalist Party had faded away, and all five presidential contenders were members of the Democratic-Republican Party. Jackson's campaign promoted him as a defender of the common people, as well as the one candidate who could rise above sectional divisions. On the major issues of the day, most prominently the tariff, Jackson expressed centrist beliefs, and opponents accused him of obfuscating his positions. At the forefront of Jackson's campaign was combatting corruption. Jackson vowed to restore honesty in government and to scale back its excesses.\n\nIn 1823, Jackson reluctantly allowed his name to be placed in contention for one of Tennessee's U.S. Senate seats. The move was independently orchestrated by his advisors William Berkeley Lewis and U.S. Senator John Eaton in order to defeat incumbent John Williams, who openly opposed his presidential candidacy. The legislature narrowly elected him. His return, after 24 years, 11 months, 3 days out of office, marks the second longest gap in service to the chamber in history. Although Jackson was reluctant to serve once more in the Senate, he was appointed chairman of the Committee on Military Affairs. Eaton wrote to Rachel that Jackson as a senator was \"in harmony and good understanding with every body,\" including Thomas Hart Benton, now a senator from Missouri, with whom Jackson had fought in 1813. Meanwhile, Jackson himself did little active campaigning for the presidency, as was customary. Eaton updated an already-written biography of him in preparation for the campaign and, along with others, wrote letters to newspapers praising Jackson's record and past conduct.\n\nDemocratic-Republican presidential nominees had historically been chosen by informal Congressional nominating caucuses, but this method had become unpopular. In 1824, most of the Democratic-Republicans in Congress boycotted the caucus. Those who attended backed Crawford for president and Albert Gallatin for vice president. A Pennsylvania convention nominated Jackson for president a month later, stating that the irregular caucus ignored the \"voice of the people\" in the \"vain hope that the American people might be thus deceived into a belief that he [Crawford] was the regular democratic candidate.\" Gallatin criticized Jackson as \"an honest man and the idol of the worshipers of military glory, but from incapacity, military habits, and habitual disregard of laws and constitutional provisions, altogether unfit for the office.\" After Jackson won the Pennsylvania nomination, Calhoun dropped out of the presidential race and successfully sought the vice presidency instead.\n\nIn the presidential election, Jackson won a plurality of the electoral vote, taking several southern and western states as well as the mid-Atlantic states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. He was the only candidate to win states outside of his regional base, as Adams dominated New England, Clay took three western states, and Crawford won Virginia and Georgia. Jackson won a plurality of the popular vote, taking 42 percent, although not all states held a popular vote for the presidency. He won 99 electoral votes, more than any other candidate, but still short of 131, which he needed for a true majority. With no candidate having won a majority of the electoral votes, the House of Representatives held a contingent election under the terms of the Twelfth Amendment. The amendment specifies that only the top three electoral vote-winners are eligible to be elected by the House, so Clay was eliminated from contention. Jackson believed that he was likely to win this contingent election, as Crawford and Adams lacked Jackson's national appeal, and Crawford had suffered a debilitating stroke that made many doubt his physical fitness for the presidency. Clay, who as Speaker of the House presided over the election, saw Jackson as a dangerous demagogue who might topple the republic in favor of his own leadership. He threw his support behind Adams, who shared Clay's support for federally funded internal improvements such as roads and canals. With Clay's backing, Adams won the contingent election on the first ballot. Furious supporters of Jackson accused Clay and Adams of having reached a \"corrupt bargain\" after Adams appointed Clay as his Secretary of State. \"So you see,\" Jackson growled, \"the Judas of the West has closed the contract and receive the thirty pieces of silver. [H]is end will be the same.\" After the election, Jackson resigned his Senate seat and returned to Tennessee.\n\nAlmost immediately, opposition arose to the Adams presidency. Jackson opposed Adams's plan to involve the U.S. in Panama's quest for independence, writing, \"The moment we engage in confederations, or alliances with any nation, we may from that time date the down fall of our republic.\" Adams damaged his standing in his first annual message to Congress, when he argued that Congress must not give the world the impression \"that we are palsied by the will of our constituents.\"\n\nJackson was nominated for president by the Tennessee legislature in October 1825, more than three years before the 1828 election. It was the earliest such nomination in presidential history, and it attested to the fact that Jackson's supporters began the 1828 campaign almost as soon as the 1824 campaign ended. Adams's presidency floundered, as his ambitious agenda faced defeat in a new era of mass politics. Critics led by Jackson attacked Adams's policies as a dangerous expansion of Federal power. New York Senator Martin Van Buren, who had been a prominent supporter of Crawford in 1824, emerged as one of the strongest opponents of Adams's policies, and he settled on Jackson as his preferred candidate in 1828. Van Buren was joined by Vice President Calhoun, who opposed much of Adams's agenda on states' rights grounds. Van Buren and other Jackson allies established numerous pro-Jackson newspapers and clubs around the country, while Jackson avoided campaigning but made himself available to visitors at his Hermitage plantation. In the election, Jackson won a commanding 56 percent of the popular vote and 68 percent of the electoral vote. The election marked the definitive end of the one-party Era of Good Feelings, as Jackson's supporters coalesced into the Democratic Party and Adams's followers became known as the National Republicans. In the large Scots-Irish community that was especially numerous in the rural South and Southwest, Jackson was a favorite.\n\nThe campaign was heavily personal. As was the custom at the time, neither candidate personally campaigned, but their political followers organized campaign events. Both candidates were rhetorically attacked in the press. Jackson was labelled a slave trader who bought and sold slaves and moved them about in defiance of higher standards of slaveholder behavior. A series of pamphlets known as the Coffin Handbills were published to attack Jackson, one of which revealed his order to execute soldiers at New Orleans. Another accused him of engaging in cannibalism by eating the bodies of American Indians killed in battle, while still another labeled his mother a \"common prostitute\" and stated that Jackson's father was a \"mulatto man.\"\n\nRachel Jackson was also a frequent target of attacks, and was widely accused of bigamy, a reference to the controversial situation of her marriage with Jackson. Jackson's campaigners fired back by claiming that while serving as Minister to Russia, Adams had procured a young girl to serve as a prostitute for Emperor Alexander I. They also stated that Adams had a billiard table in the White House and that he had charged the government for it.\n\nRachel had been under extreme stress during the election, and often struggled while Jackson was away. She began experiencing significant physical stress during the election season. Jackson described her symptoms as \"excruciating pain in the left shoulder, arm, and breast.\" After struggling for three days, Rachel finally died of a heart attack on December 22, 1828 three weeks after her husband's victory in the election (which began on October 31 and ended on December 2) and 10 weeks before Jackson took office as president. A distraught Jackson had to be pulled from her so the undertaker could prepare the body. He felt that the abuse from Adams's supporters had hastened her death and never forgave him. Rachel was buried at the Hermitage on Christmas Eve. \"May God Almighty forgive her murderers,\" Jackson swore at her funeral. \"I never can.\"\n\nJackson's name has been associated with Jacksonian democracy or the shift and expansion of democracy with the passing of some political power from established elites to ordinary voters based in political parties. \"The Age of Jackson\" shaped the national agenda and American politics. Jackson's philosophy as president was similar to that of Jefferson, advocating Republican values held by the Revolutionary generation. Jackson took a moral tone, with the belief that agrarian sympathies, and a limited view of states rights and the federal government, would produce less corruption. He feared that monied and business interests would corrupt republican values. When South Carolina opposed the tariff law, he took a strong line in favor of nationalism and against secession.\n\nJackson believed in the ability of the people to \"arrive at right conclusions.\" They had the right not only to elect but to \"instruct their agents & representatives.\" Office holders should either obey the popular will or resign. He rejected the view of a powerful and independent Supreme Court with binding decisions, arguing that \"the Congress, the Executive, and the Court must each or itself be guided by its own opinions of the Constitution.\" Jackson thought that Supreme Court justices should be made to stand for election, and believed in strict constructionism as the best way to insure democratic rule. He called for term limits on presidents and the abolition of the Electoral College. Jackson \"was far ahead of his times–and maybe even further than this country can ever achieve.\"\n\nJackson departed from the Hermitage on January 19 and arrived in Washington on February 11. He then set about choosing his cabinet members. Jackson chose Van Buren as expected for Secretary of State, Eaton of Tennessee as Secretary of War, Samuel D. Ingham of Pennsylvania as Secretary of Treasury, John Branch of North Carolina as Secretary of Navy, John M. Berrien of Georgia as Attorney General, and William T. Barry of Kentucky as Postmaster General. Jackson's first choice of cabinet proved to be unsuccessful, full of bitter partisanship and gossip. Jackson blamed Adams in part for what was said about Rachel during the campaign, and refused to meet him after arriving in Washington. Therefore, Adams chose not to attend the inauguration.\n\nOn March 4, 1829, Andrew Jackson became the first United States president-elect to take the oath of office on the East Portico of the U.S. Capitol. In his inaugural speech, Jackson promised to respect the sovereign powers of states and the constitutional limits of the presidency. He also promised to pursue \"reform\" by removing power from \"unfaithful or incompetent hands.\" At the conclusion of the ceremony, Jackson invited the public to the White House, where his supporters held a raucous party. Thousands of spectators overwhelmed the White House staff, and minor damage was caused to fixtures and furnishings. Jackson's populism earned him the nickname \"King Mob.\"\n\nJackson devoted a considerable amount of his presidential time during his early years in office responding to what came to be known as the \"Petticoat affair\" or \"Eaton affair.\" Washington gossip circulated among Jackson's cabinet members and their wives, including Calhoun's wife Floride Calhoun, concerning Secretary of War Eaton and his wife Peggy Eaton. Salacious rumors held that Peggy, as a barmaid in her father's tavern, had been sexually promiscuous or had even been a prostitute. Controversy also ensued because Peggy had married soon after her previous husband's death, and it was alleged that she and her husband had engaged in an adulterous affair while her previous husband was still living. Petticoat politics emerged when the wives of cabinet members, led by Mrs. Calhoun, refused to socialize with the Eatons. Allowing a prostitute in the official family was unthinkable—but Jackson refused to believe the rumors, telling his Cabinet that \"She is as chaste as a virgin!\" Jackson believed that the dishonorable people were the rumormongers, who in essence questioned and dishonored Jackson himself by, in attempting to drive the Eatons out, daring to tell him who he could and could not have in his cabinet. Jackson was also reminded of the attacks that were made against his wife. These memories increased his dedication to defending Peggy Eaton.\n\nMeanwhile, the cabinet wives insisted that the interests and honor of all American women was at stake. They believed a responsible woman should never accord a man sexual favors without the assurance that went with marriage. A woman who broke that code was dishonorable and unacceptable. Historian Daniel Walker Howe notes that this was the feminist spirit that in the next decade shaped the woman's rights movement. Secretary of State Martin Van Buren, a widower, was already forming a coalition against Calhoun. He could now see his main chance to strike hard; he took the side of Jackson and Eaton.\n\nIn the spring of 1831, Jackson, at Van Buren's suggestion, demanded the resignations of all the cabinet members except Barry. Van Buren himself resigned to avoid the appearance of bias. In 1832, Jackson nominated Van Buren to be Minister to Great Britain. Calhoun blocked the nomination with a tie-breaking vote against it, claiming the defeated nomination would \"...kill [Van Buren], sir, kill dead. He will never kick, sir, never kick.\" Van Buren continued to serve as an important adviser to Jackson and was placed on the ticket for vice president in the 1832 election, making him Jackson's heir-apparent. The Petticoat affair led to the development of the Kitchen Cabinet. The Kitchen Cabinet emerged as an unofficial group of advisors to the president. Its existence was partially rooted in Jackson's difficulties with his official cabinet, even after the purging.\n\nThroughout his eight years in office, Jackson made about 70 treaties with Native American tribes both in the South and the Northwest. Jackson's presidency marked a new era in Indian-Anglo American relations initiating a policy of Indian removal. Jackson himself sometimes participated in the treaty negotiating process with various Indian tribes, though other times he left the negotiations to his subordinates. The southern tribes included the Choctaw, Creek, Chickasaw, Seminole and the Cherokee. The northwest tribes include the Chippewa, Ottawa, and the Potawatomi.\n\nRelations between Indians and Americans increasingly grew tense and sometimes violent as a result of territorial conflicts. Previous presidents had at times supported removal or attempts to \"civilize\" the Indians, but generally let the problem play itself out with minimal intervention. There had developed a growing popular and political movement to deal with the issue, and out of this policy to relocate certain Indian populations. Jackson, never known for timidity, became an advocate for this relocation policy in what many historians consider the most controversial aspect of his presidency.\n\nIn his First Annual Message to Congress, Jackson advocated land west of the Mississippi River be set aside for Indian tribes. On May 26, 1830, Congress passed the Indian Removal Act, which Jackson signed into law two days later. The Act authorized the president to negotiate treaties to buy tribal lands in the east in exchange for lands farther west, outside of existing state borders. The act specifically pertained to the Five Civilized Tribes in the South, the conditions being that they could either move west or stay and obey state law, effectively relinquishing their sovereignty.\nJackson, Eaton, and General Coffee negotiated with the Chickasaw, who quickly agreed to move. Jackson put Eaton and Coffee in charge of negotiating with the Choctaw. Lacking Jackson's skills at negotiation, they frequently bribed the chiefs in order to gain their submission. The tactics worked, and the chiefs agreed to move. The removal of the Choctaw took place in the winter of 1831 and 1832, and was wrought with misery and suffering. The Seminole, despite the signing of the Treaty of Payne's Landing in 1832, refused to move. In December 1835, this dispute began the Second Seminole War. The war lasted over six years, finally ending in 1842. Members of the Creek Nation had signed the Treaty of Cusseta in 1832, allowing the Creek to either sell or retain their land. Conflict later erupted between the Creek who remained and the white settlers, leading to a second Creek War. A common complaint amongst the tribes was that the men who had signed the treaties did not represent the whole tribe.\n\nThe state of Georgia became involved in a contentious dispute with the Cherokee, culminating in the 1832 Supreme Court decision in \"Worcester v. Georgia\". Chief Justice John Marshall, writing for the court, ruled that Georgia could not forbid whites from entering tribal lands, as it had attempted to do with two missionaries supposedly stirring up resistance amongst the tribespeople. Jackson is frequently attributed the following response: \"John Marshall has made his decision, now let him enforce it.\" The quote, apparently indicating Jackson's dismissive view of the courts, was attributed to Jackson by Horace Greeley, who cited as his source Representative George N. Briggs. Remini argues that Jackson did not say it because, while it \"certainly sounds like Jackson...[t]here was nothing for him to enforce.\" This is because a writ of \"habeas corpus\" had never been issued for the missionaries. The Court also did not ask federal marshals to carry out the decision, as had become standard.\n\nA group of Cherokees led by John Ridge negotiated the Treaty of New Echota. Ridge was not a widely recognized leader of the Cherokee, and this document was rejected by some as illegitimate. Another faction, led by John Ross, unsuccessfully petitioned to protest the proposed removal. The Cherokee largely considered themselves independent, and not subject to the laws of the United States or Georgia. The treaty was enforced by Jackson's successor, Van Buren. Subsequently, as many as 4,000 out of 18,000 Cherokees died on the \"Trail of Tears\" in 1838. More than 45,000 American Indians were relocated to the West during Jackson's administration, though a few Cherokees walked back afterwards or migrated to the high Smoky Mountains. The Black Hawk War took place during Jackson's presidency in 1832 after a group of Indians crossed into U.S. territory.\n\nIn an effort to purge the government of corruption, Jackson launched presidential investigations into all executive Cabinet offices and departments. He believed appointees should be hired on merit and withdrew many candidates he believed were lax in their handling of monies. He asked Congress to reform embezzlement laws, reduce fraudulent applications for federal pensions, revenue laws to prevent evasion of custom duties, and laws to improve government accounting. Jackson's Postmaster General Barry resigned after a Congressional investigation into the postal service revealed mismanagement of mail services, collusion and favoritism in awarding lucrative contracts, as well as failure to audit accounts and supervise contract performances. Jackson replaced Barry with Treasury Auditor and prominent Kitchen Cabinet member Amos Kendall, who went on to implement much needed reforms in the Post Office Department.\nJackson repeatedly called for the abolition of the Electoral College by constitutional amendment in his annual messages to Congress as president. In his third annual message to Congress, he expressed the view \"I have heretofore recommended amendments of the Federal Constitution giving the election of President and Vice-President to the people and limiting the service of the former to a single term. So important do I consider these changes in our fundamental law that I can not, in accordance with my sense of duty, omit to press them upon the consideration of a new Congress.\"\n\nAlthough he was unable to implement these goals, Jackson's time in office did see a variety of other reforms. He supported an act in July 1836 that enabled widows of Revolutionary War soldiers who met certain criteria to receive their husband's pensions. In 1836, Jackson established the ten-hour day in national shipyards.\n\nJackson enforced the Tenure of Office Act, signed by President Monroe in 1820, that limited appointed office tenure and authorized the president to remove and appoint political party associates. Jackson believed that a rotation in office was actually a democratic reform preventing father-to-son succession of office and made civil service responsible to the popular will. Jackson declared that rotation of appointments in political office was \"a leading principle in the republican creed.\" Jackson noted, \"In a country where offices are created solely for the benefit of the people no one man has any more intrinsic right to official station than another.\" Jackson believed that rotating political appointments would prevent the development of a corrupt bureaucracy. The number of federal office holders removed by Jackson were exaggerated by his opponents; Jackson only rotated about 20% of federal office holders during his first term, some for dereliction of duty rather than political purposes. Jackson, nonetheless, used his presidential power to award loyal Democrats by granting them federal office appointments. Jackson's approach incorporated patriotism for country as qualification for holding office. Having appointed a soldier who had lost his leg fighting on the battlefield to postmaster, Jackson stated, \"[i]f he lost his leg fighting for his country, that is ... enough for me.\"\n\nJackson's theory regarding rotation of office generated what would later be called the spoils system. The political realities of Washington sometimes forced Jackson to make partisan appointments despite his personal reservations. Supervision of bureaus and departments whose operations were outside of Washington (such as the New York Customs House; the Postal Service; the Departments of Navy and War; and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, whose budget had increased enormously in the previous two decades) proved to be difficult. Remini claims that because \"friendship, politics, and geography constituted the President's total criteria for appointments, most of his appointments were predictably substandard.\"\n\nIn 1828, Congress had approved the \"Tariff of Abominations\", which set the tariff at an historically high rate. Southern planters, who sold their cotton on the world market, strongly opposed this tariff, which they saw as favoring northern interests. The South now had to pay more for goods it did not produce locally; and other countries would have more difficulty affording southern cotton. The issue came to a head during Jackson's presidency, resulting in the Nullification Crisis, in which South Carolina threatened disunion.\n\nThe South Carolina Exposition and Protest of 1828, secretly written by Calhoun, asserted that their state had the right to \"nullify\"—declare void—the tariff legislation of 1828. Although Jackson sympathized with the South in the tariff debate, he also vigorously supported a strong union, with effective powers for the central government. Jackson attempted to face down Calhoun over the issue, which developed into a bitter rivalry between the two men. One incident came at the April 13, 1830, Jefferson Day dinner, involving after-dinner toasts. Robert Hayne began by toasting to \"The Union of the States, and the Sovereignty of the States.\" Jackson then rose, and in a booming voice added \"Our federal Union: It must be preserved!\" – a clear challenge to Calhoun. Calhoun clarified his position by responding \"The Union: Next to our Liberty, the most dear!\"\n\nIn May 1830, Jackson discovered that Calhoun had asked President Monroe to censure then-General Jackson for his invasion of Spanish Florida in 1818 while Calhoun was serving as Secretary of War. Calhoun's and Jackson's relationship deteriorated further. By February 1831, the break between Calhoun and Jackson was final. Responding to inaccurate press reports about the feud, Calhoun had published letters between him and Jackson detailing the conflict in the \"United States Telegraph\". Jackson and Calhoun began an angry correspondence which lasted until Jackson stopped it in July. The \"Telegraph\", edited by Duff Green, had previously supported Jackson. After it took the side of Calhoun, Jackson needed a new organ for the administration. He enlisted the help of longtime supporter Francis Preston Blair, who in November 1830 established a newspaper known as the \"Washington Globe\", which from then on served as the primary mouthpiece of the Democratic Party.\n\nJackson supported a revision to tariff rates known as the Tariff of 1832. It was designed to placate the nullifiers by lowering tariff rates. Written by Treasury Secretary Louis McLane, the bill lowered duties from 45% to 27%. In May, Representative John Quincy Adams introduced a slightly revised version of the bill, which Jackson accepted. It passed Congress on July 9 and was signed by the President on July 14. The bill ultimately failed to satisfy extremists on either side. On November 24, the South Carolina legislature officially nullified both the Tariff of 1832 and the Tariff of 1828. In response, Jackson sent U.S. Navy warships to Charleston harbor, and threatened to hang any man who worked to support nullification or secession. On December 28, 1832, Calhoun resigned as vice president to become a U.S. Senator for South Carolina. This was part of a strategy whereby Calhoun, with less than three months remaining on his vice presidential term, would replace Robert Y. Hayne in the Senate, who would then become governor. Hayne had often struggled to defend nullification on the floor of the Senate, especially against fierce criticism from Senator Daniel Webster of Massachusetts.\n\nIn December 1832, Jackson issued a resounding proclamation against the \"nullifiers,\" stating that he considered \"the power to annul a law of the United States, assumed by one State, incompatible with the existence of the Union, contradicted expressly by the letter of the Constitution, unauthorized by its spirit, inconsistent with every principle on which it was founded, and destructive of the great object for which it was formed.\" South Carolina, the President declared, stood on \"the brink of insurrection and treason,\" and he appealed to the people of the state to reassert their allegiance to that Union for which their ancestors had fought. Jackson also denied the right of secession: \"The Constitution ... forms a government not a league ... To say that any State may at pleasure secede from the Union is to say that the United States are not a nation.\" Jackson tended to personalize the controversy, frequently characterizing nullification as a conspiracy between disappointed and bitter men whose ambitions had been thwarted.\n\nJackson asked Congress to pass a \"Force Bill\" explicitly authorizing the use of military force to enforce the tariff. It was introduced by Senator Felix Grundy of Tennessee, and was quickly attacked by Calhoun as \"military despotism.\" At the same time, Calhoun and Clay began to work on a new compromise tariff. A bill sponsored by the administration had been introduced by Representative Gulian C. Verplanck of New York, but it lowered rates more sharply than Clay and other protectionists desired. Clay managed to get Calhoun to agree to a bill with higher rates in exchange for Clay's opposition to Jackson's military threats and, perhaps, with the hope that he could win some Southern votes in his next bid for the presidency. The Compromise Tariff passed on March 1, 1833. The Force Bill passed the same day. Calhoun, Clay, and several others marched out of the chamber in opposition, with the only dissenting vote coming from John Tyler of Virginia. The new tariff was opposed by Webster, who argued that it essentially surrendered to South Carolina's demands. Jackson, despite his anger over the scrapping of the Verplanck bill and the new alliance between Clay and Calhoun, saw it as an efficient way to end the crisis. He signed both bills on March 2, starting with the Force Bill. The South Carolina Convention then met and rescinded its nullification ordinance, but in a final show of defiance, nullified the Force Bill. On May 1, Jackson wrote, \"the tariff was only the pretext, and disunion and southern confederacy the real object. The next pretext will be the negro, or slavery question.\"\n\nAddressing the subject of foreign affairs in his First Annual Address to Congress, Jackson declared it to be his \"settled purpose to ask nothing that is not clearly right and to submit to nothing that is wrong.\"\n\nWhen Jackson took office, spoliation claims, or compensation demands for the capture of American ships and sailors, dating from the Napoleonic era, caused strained relations between the U.S. and French governments. The French Navy had captured and sent American ships to Spanish ports while holding their crews captive forcing them to labor without any charges or judicial rules. According to Secretary of State Martin Van Buren, relations between the U.S. and France were \"hopeless.\" Jackson's Minister to France, William C. Rives, through diplomacy was able to convince the French government to sign a reparations treaty on July 4, 1831, that would award the U.S. ₣ 25,000,000 ($5,000,000) in damages. The French government became delinquent in payment due to internal financial and political difficulties. The French king Louis Philippe I and his ministers blamed the French Chamber of Deputies. By 1834, the non-payment of reparations by the French government drew Jackson's ire and he became impatient. In , Jackson sternly reprimanded the French government for non-payment, stating the federal government was \"wholly disappointed\" by the French, and demanded Congress authorize trade reprisals against France. Feeling insulted by Jackson's words, the French people began pressuring their government not to pay the indemnity until Jackson had apologized for his remarks. In his December 1835 State of the Union Address, Jackson refused to apologize, stating he had a good opinion of the French people and his intentions were peaceful. Jackson described in lengthy and minute detail the history of events surrounding the treaty and his belief that the French government was purposely stalling payment. The French accepted Jackson's statements as sincere and in February 1836, reparations were paid.\n\nIn addition to France, the Jackson administration successfully settled spoliation claims with Denmark, Portugal, and Spain. Jackson's state department was active and successful at making trade agreements with Russia, Spain, Turkey, Great Britain, and Siam. Under the treaty of Great Britain, American trade was reopened in the West Indies. The trade agreement with Siam was America's first treaty between the United States and an Asiatic country. As a result, American exports increased 75% while imports increased 250%.\n\nJackson's attempt to purchase Texas from Mexico for $5,000,000 failed. The chargé d'affaires in Mexico, Colonel Anthony Butler, suggested that the U.S. take Texas over militarily, but Jackson refused. Butler was later replaced toward the end of Jackson's presidency. In 1835, the Texas Revolution began when pro-slavery American settlers in Texas fought the Mexican government for Texan independence. By May 1836, they had routed the Mexican military, establishing an independent Republic of Texas. The new Texas government legalized slavery and demanded recognition from President Jackson and annexation into the United States. Jackson was hesitant in recognizing Texas, unconvinced that the new republic could maintain independence from Mexico, and not wanting to make Texas an anti-slavery issue during the 1836 election. The strategy worked; the Democratic Party and national loyalties were held intact, and Van Buren was elected president. Jackson formally recognized the Republic of Texas, nominating Alcée Louis la Branche as chargé d'affaires on the last full day of his presidency, March 3, 1837.\n\nJackson failed in his efforts to open trade with China and Japan and was unsuccessful at thwarting Great Britain's presence and power in South America.\n\nThe 1832 presidential election demonstrated the rapid development and organization of political parties during this time period. The Democratic Party's first national convention, held in Baltimore, nominated Jackson's choice for vice president, Van Buren. The National Republican Party, who had held their first convention in Baltimore earlier in December 1831, nominated Henry Clay, now a senator from Kentucky, and John Sergeant of Pennsylvania. The Anti-Masonic Party emerged by capitalizing on opposition to Freemasonry, which existed primarily in New England, after the disappearance and possible murder of William Morgan. The party, which had earlier held its convention also in Baltimore in September 1831, nominated William Wirt of Maryland and Amos Ellmaker of Pennsylvania. Clay was, like Jackson, a Mason, and so some anti-Jacksonians who would have supported the National Republican Party supported Wirt instead.\n\nIn 1816, the Second Bank of the United States was chartered by President James Madison to restore the United States economy devastated by the War of 1812. Monroe had appointed Nicholas Biddle as the Bank's executive. Jackson believed that the Bank was a fundamentally corrupt monopoly. Its stock was mostly held by foreigners, he insisted, and it exerted an unfair amount of control over the political system. Jackson used the issue to promote his democratic values, believing the Bank was being run exclusively for the wealthy. Jackson stated the Bank made \"the rich richer and the potent more powerful.\" He accused it of making loans with the intent of influencing elections. In his address to Congress in 1830, Jackson called for a substitute for the Bank that would have no private stockholders and no ability to lend or purchase land. Its only power would be to issue bills of exchange. The address touched off fiery debate in the Senate. Thomas Hart Benton, now a strong supporter of the President despite the brawl years earlier, gave a speech strongly denouncing the Bank and calling for open debate on its recharter. Webster led a motion to narrowly defeat the resolution. Shortly afterward, the \"Globe\" announced that Jackson would stand for reelection.\n\nDespite his misgivings about the Bank, he supported a plan proposed in late 1831 by his moderately pro-Bank Treasury Secretary Louis McLane, who was secretly working with Biddle, to recharter a reformed version of the Bank in a way that would free up funds which would in turn be used to strengthen the military or pay off the nation's debt. This would be done, in part, through the sale of government stock in the Bank. Over the objections of Attorney General Roger B. Taney, an irreconcilable opponent of the Bank, he allowed McLane to publish a Treasury Report which essentially recommended rechartering the Bank.\n\nClay hoped to make the Bank an issue in the election, so as to accuse Jackson of going beyond his powers if he vetoed a recharter bill. He and Webster urged Biddle to immediately apply for recharter rather than wait to reach a compromise with the administration. Biddle received advice to the contrary from moderate Democrats such as McLane and William Lewis, who argued that Biddle should wait because Jackson would likely veto the recharter bill. On January 6, 1832 Biddle submitted to Congress a renewal of the Bank's charter without any of the proposed reforms. The submission came four years before the original 20-year charter was to end. Biddle's recharter bill passed the Senate on June 11 and the House on July 3, 1832. Jackson determined to veto it. Many moderate Democrats, including McLane, were appalled by the perceived arrogance of the bill and supported his decision. When Van Buren met Jackson on July 4, Jackson declared, \"The Bank, Mr. Van Buren, is trying to kill me. But I will kill it.\" Jackson officially vetoed the bill on July 10. The veto message was crafted primarily by Taney, Kendall, and Jackson's nephew and advisor Andrew Jackson Donelson. It attacked the Bank as an agent of inequality that supported only the wealthy. The veto was considered \"one of the strongest and most controversial\" presidential statements and \"a brilliant political manifesto.\" The National Republican Party immediately made Jackson's veto of the Bank a political issue. Jackson's political opponents castigated the veto as \"the very slang of the leveller and demagogue,\" claiming Jackson was using class warfare to gain support from the common man.\n\nAt Biddle's direction, the Bank poured thousands of dollars into a campaign to defeat Jackson, seemingly confirming Jackson's view that it interfered in the political process. On July 21, Clay said privately, \"The campaign is over, and I think we have won the victory.\" Jackson successfully portrayed his veto as a defense of the common man against governmental tyranny. Clay proved to be no match to Jackson's ability to resonate with the people and the Democratic Party's strong political networks. Democratic newspapers, parades, barbecues, and rallies increased Jackson's popularity. Jackson himself made numerous public appearances on his return trip from Tennessee to Washington, D.C. Jackson won the election by a landslide, receiving 54 percent of the popular vote and 219 electoral votes. Clay received 37 percent of the popular vote and 49 electoral votes. Wirt received only eight percent of the popular vote and seven electoral votes while the Anti-Masonic Party eventually declined. Jackson believed the solid victory was a popular mandate for his veto of the Bank's recharter and his continued warfare on the Bank's control over the national economy.\n\nIn 1833, Jackson attempted to begin removing federal deposits from the bank, whose money-lending functions were taken over by the legions of local and state banks that materialized across America, thus drastically increasing credit and speculation. Jackson's moves were greatly controversial. He removed McLane from the Treasury Department, having him serve instead as Secretary of State, replacing Edward Livingston. He replaced McLane with William J. Duane. In September, he fired Duane for refusing to remove the deposits. Signalling his intent to continue battling the Bank, he replaced Duane with Taney. Under Taney, the deposits began to be removed. They were placed in a variety of state banks which were friendly to the administration's policies, known to critics as pet banks. Biddle responded by stockpiling the Bank's reserves and contracting credit, thus causing interest rates to rise and bringing about a financial panic. The moves were intended to force Jackson into a compromise. \"Nothing but the evidence of suffering abroad will produce any effect in Congress,\" he wrote. At first, Biddle's strategy was successful, putting enormous pressure on Jackson. But Jackson handled the situation well. When people came to him complaining, he referred them to Biddle, saying that he was the man who had \"all the money.\" Jackson's approach worked. Biddle's strategy backfired, increasing anti-Bank sentiment.\n\nIn 1834, those who disagreed with Jackson's expansion of executive power united and formed the Whig Party, calling Jackson \"King Andrew I,\" and named their party after the English Whigs who opposed seventeenth century British monarchy. A movement emerged among Whigs in the Senate to censure Jackson. The censure was a political maneuver spearheaded by Clay, which served only to perpetuate the animosity between him and Jackson. Jackson called Clay \"reckless and as full of fury as a drunken man in a brothel.\" On March 28, the Senate voted to censure Jackson 26–20. It also rejected Taney as Treasury Secretary. The House however, led by Ways and Means Committee chairman James K. Polk, declared on April 4 that the Bank \"ought not to be rechartered\" and that the depositions \"ought not to be restored.\" It voted to continue allowing pet banks to be places of deposit and voted even more overwhelmingly to investigate whether the Bank had deliberately instigated the panic. Jackson called the passage of these resolutions a \"glorious triumph.\" It essentially sealed the Bank's demise. The Democrats later suffered a temporary setback. Polk ran for Speaker of the House to replace Andrew Stevenson. After Southerners discovered his connection to Van Buren, he was defeated by fellow-Tennessean John Bell, a Democrat-turned-Whig who opposed Jackson's removal policy.\n\nThe national economy following the withdrawal of the remaining funds from the Bank was booming and the federal government through duty revenues and sale of public lands was able to pay all bills.\n\nOn January 1, 1835, Jackson paid off the entire national debt, the only time in U.S. history that has been accomplished. The objective had been reached in part through Jackson's reforms aimed at eliminating the misuse of funds and through his vetoes of legislation had he deemed extravagant. In December 1835, Polk defeated Bell in a rematch and was elected Speaker. Finally, on January 16, 1837, when the Jacksonians had a majority in the Senate, the censure was expunged after years of effort by Jackson supporters. The expunction movement was led ironically by Benton.\n\nIn 1836, in response to increased land speculation, Jackson issued the Specie Circular, an executive order that required buyers of government lands to pay in \"specie\" (gold or silver coins). The result was high demand for specie, which many banks could not meet in exchange for their notes, contributing to the Panic of 1837. The White House Van Buren biography notes, \"Basically the trouble was the 19th-century cyclical economy of 'boom and bust,' which was following its regular pattern, but Jackson's financial measures contributed to the crash. His destruction of the Second Bank of the United States had removed restrictions upon the inflationary practices of some state banks; wild speculation in lands, based on easy bank credit, had swept the West. To end this speculation, Jackson in 1836 had issued a Specie Circular...\"\n\nThe first recorded physical attack on a U.S. president was directed at Jackson. He had ordered the dismissal of Robert B. Randolph from the navy for embezzlement. On May 6, 1833, Jackson sailed on USS \"Cygnet\" to Fredericksburg, Virginia, where he was to lay the cornerstone on a monument near the grave of Mary Ball Washington, George Washington's mother. During a stopover near Alexandria, Randolph appeared and struck the President. He fled the scene chased by several members of Jackson's party, including the writer Washington Irving. Jackson declined to press charges.\n\nOn January 30, 1835, what is believed to be the first attempt to kill a sitting president of the United States occurred just outside the United States Capitol. When Jackson was leaving through the East Portico after the funeral of South Carolina Representative Warren R. Davis, Richard Lawrence, an unemployed house painter from England, aimed a pistol at Jackson, which misfired. Lawrence then pulled out a second pistol, which also misfired. Historians believe the humid weather contributed to the double misfiring. Jackson, infuriated, attacked Lawrence with his cane. Others present, including Davy Crockett, restrained and disarmed Lawrence.\n\nLawrence offered a variety of explanations for the shooting. He blamed Jackson for the loss of his job. He claimed that with the President dead, \"money would be more plenty,\" (a reference to Jackson's struggle with the Bank of the United States) and that he \"could not rise until the President fell.\" Finally, Lawrence told his interrogators that he was a deposed English king—specifically, Richard III, dead since 1485—and that Jackson was his clerk. He was deemed insane and was institutionalized.\n\nAfterwards, the pistols were tested and retested. Each time they performed perfectly. Many believed that Jackson had been protected by the same Providence that also protected their young nation. The incident became a part of Jacksonian mythos. Jackson initially suspected that a number of his political enemies might have orchestrated the attempt on his life. His suspicions were never proven.\n\nDuring the summer of 1835, Northern abolitionists began sending anti-slavery tracts through the postal system into the South. Pro-slavery Southerners demanded that the postal service ban distribution of the materials, which were deemed \"incendiary,\" and some began to riot. Jackson wanted sectional peace, and desired to placate Southerners ahead of the 1836 election. He fiercely disliked the abolitionists, whom he believed were, by instituting sectional jealousies, attempting to destroy the Union. Jackson also did not want to condone open insurrection. He supported the solution of Postmaster General Amos Kendall, which gave Southern postmasters discretionary powers to either send or detain the anti-slavery tracts. That December, Jackson called on Congress to prohibit the circulation through the South of \"incendiary publications intended to instigate the slaves to insurrection.\"\n\nJackson initially opposed any federal exploratory scientific expeditions during his first term in office. The last scientific federally funded expeditions took place from 1817 to 1823, led by Stephen H. Harriman on the Red River of the North. Jackson's predecessor, President Adams, attempted to launch a scientific oceanic exploration in 1828, but Congress was unwilling to fund the effort. When Jackson assumed office in 1829 he pocketed Adams' expedition plans. Eventually, wanting to establish his presidential legacy, similar to Jefferson and the Lewis and Clark Expedition, Jackson sponsored scientific exploration during his second term. On May 18, 1836, Jackson signed a law creating and funding the oceanic United States Exploring Expedition. Jackson put Secretary of the Navy Mahlon Dickerson in charge, to assemble suitable ships, officers, and scientific staff for the expedition; with a planned launch before Jackson's term of office expired. Dickerson proved unfit for the task, preparations stalled and the expedition was not launched until 1838, during the presidency of Van Buren. One brig ship, , later used in the expedition; having been commissioned by Secretary Dickerson in May 1836, circumnavigated the world and explored and mapped the Southern Ocean, confirming the existence of the Antarctica continent.\n\nIn spite of economic success following Jackson's vetoes and war against the Bank, reckless speculation in land and railroads eventually caused the Panic of 1837. Contributing factors included Jackson's veto of the Second National Bank renewal charter in 1832 and subsequent transfer of federal monies to state banks in 1833 that caused western banks to relax their lending standards. Two other Jacksonian acts in 1836 contributed to the Panic of 1837: the Specie Circular, which mandated western lands only be purchased by money backed by gold and silver, and the Deposit and Distribution Act, which transferred federal monies from eastern to western state banks and in turn led to a speculation frenzy by banks. Jackson's Specie Circular, albeit designed to reduce speculation and stabilize the economy, left many investors unable to afford to pay loans in gold and silver. The same year there was a downturn in Great Britain's economy that stopped investment in the United States. As a result, the U.S. economy went into a depression, banks became insolvent, the national debt (previously paid off) increased, business failures rose, cotton prices dropped, and unemployment dramatically increased. The depression that followed lasted for four years until 1841, when the economy began to rebound.\n\nJackson appointed six justices to the Supreme Court. Most were undistinguished. His first appointee, John McLean, had been nominated in Barry's place after Barry had agreed to become postmaster general. McLean \"turned Whig and forever schemed to win\" the presidency. His next two appointees–Henry Baldwin and James Moore Wayne–disagreed with Jackson on some points but were poorly regarded even by Jackson's enemies. In reward for his services, Jackson nominated Taney to the Court to fill a vacancy in January 1835, but the nomination failed to win Senate approval. Chief Justice Marshall died in 1835, leaving two vacancies on the court. Jackson nominated Taney for Chief Justice and Philip Pendleton Barbour for Associate Justice. Both were confirmed by the new Senate. Taney served as Chief Justice until 1864, presiding over a court that upheld many of the precedents set by the Marshall Court. He was generally regarded as a good and respectable judge, but his opinion in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" largely overshadows his career. On the last full day of his presidency, Jackson nominated John Catron, who was confirmed.\n\nTwo new states were admitted into the Union during Jackson's presidency: Arkansas (June 15, 1836) and Michigan (January 26, 1837). Both states increased Democratic power in Congress and helped Van Buren win the presidency in 1836. This was in keeping with the tradition that new states would support the party which had done the most to admit them.\n\nIn 1837, after serving two terms as president, Jackson was replaced by his chosen successor Martin Van Buren and retired to the Hermitage. He immediately began putting it in order as it had been poorly managed in his absence by his adopted son, Andrew Jr. Although he suffered ill health, Jackson remained highly influential in both national and state politics. He was a firm advocate of the federal union of the states and rejected any talk of secession, insisting, \"I will die with the Union.\" Blamed for causing the Panic of 1837, he was unpopular in his early retirement. Jackson continued to denounce the \"perfidy and treachery\" of banks and urged his successor, Van Buren, to repudiate the Specie Circular as president.\n\nAs a solution to the panic, he supported an Independent Treasury system, which was designed to hold the money balances of the government in the form of gold or silver and would be restricted from printing paper money so as to prevent further inflation. A coalition of conservative Democrats and Whigs opposed the bill, and it was not passed until 1840. During the delay, no effective remedy had been implemented for the depression. Van Buren grew deeply unpopular. A unified Whig Party nominated popular war hero William Henry Harrison and former Jacksonian John Tyler in the 1840 presidential election. The Whigs' campaign style in many ways mimicked that of the Democrats when Jackson ran. They depicted Van Buren as an aristocrat who did not care for the concerns of ordinary Americans, while glorifying Harrison's military record and portraying him as a man of the people. Jackson campaigned heavily for Van Buren in Tennessee. He favored the nomination of Polk for vice president at the 1840 Democratic National Convention over controversial incumbent Richard Mentor Johnson. No nominee was chosen, and the party chose to leave the decision up to individual state electors.\n\nHarrison won the election, and the Whigs captured majorities in both houses of Congress. \"The democracy of the United States has been shamefully beaten,\" Jackson wrote to Van Buren. \"but I trust, not conquered.\" Harrison died only a month into his term, and was replaced by Tyler. Jackson was encouraged because Tyler had a strong independent streak and was not bound by party lines. Sure enough, Tyler quickly incurred the wrath of the Whigs in 1841 when he vetoed two Whig-sponsored bills to establish a new national bank, bringing satisfaction to Jackson and other Democrats. After the second veto, Tyler's entire cabinet, with the exception of Daniel Webster, resigned.\n\nJackson strongly favored the annexation of Texas, a feat he had been unable to accomplish during his own presidency. While Jackson still feared that annexation would stir up anti-slavery sentiment, his belief that the British would use Texas as a base to threaten the United States overrode his other concerns. He also insisted that Texas was part of the Louisiana Purchase and therefore rightfully belonged to the United States. At the request of Senator Robert J. Walker of Mississippi, acting on behalf of the Tyler administration, which also supported annexation, Jackson wrote several letters to Texas President Sam Houston, urging him to wait for the Senate to approve annexation and lecturing him on how much being a part of the United States would benefit Texas. Initially prior to the 1844 election, Jackson again supported Van Buren for president and Polk for vice president. A treaty of annexation was signed by Tyler on April 12, 1844, and submitted to the Senate. When a letter from Secretary of State Calhoun to British Ambassador Richard Pakenham linking annexation to slavery was made public, anti-annexation sentiment exploded in the North and the bill failed to be ratified. Van Buren decided to write the \"Hamlet letter,\" opposing annexation. This effectively extinguished any support that Van Buren might previously have enjoyed in the South. The Whig nominee, Henry Clay, also opposed annexation, and Jackson recognized the need for the Democrats to nominate a candidate who supported it and could therefore gain the support of the South. If the plan failed, Jackson warned, Texas would not join the Union and would potentially fall victim to a Mexican invasion supported by the British.\n\nJackson met with Polk, Robert Armstrong, and Andrew Jackson Donelson in his study. He then pointed directly at a startled Polk, telling him that, as a man from the southwest and a supporter of annexation, he would be the perfect candidate. Polk called the scheme \"utterly abortive,\" but agreed to go along with it. At the 1844 Democratic National Convention, Polk emerged as the party's nominee after Van Buren failed to win the required two-thirds majority of delegates. George M. Dallas was selected for vice president. Jackson convinced Tyler to drop his plans of running for re-election as an independent by promising, as Tyler requested, to welcome the president and his allies back into the Democratic Party and by instructing Blair to stop criticizing the president. Polk won the election, defeating Clay. A bill of annexation was passed by Congress in February and signed by Tyler on March 1.\n\nJackson died at his plantation on June 8, 1845, at the age of 78, of chronic dropsy and heart failure. According to a newspaper account from the Boon Lick Times, \"[he] fainted whilst being removed from his chair to the bed ... but he subsequently revived ... Gen. Jackson died at the Hermitage at 6 o'clock P.M. on Sunday the 8th instant. ... When the messenger finally came, the old soldier, patriot and Christian was looking out for his approach. He is gone, but his memory lives, and will continue to live.\" In his will, Jackson left his entire estate to his adopted son, Andrew Jackson Jr., except for specifically enumerated items that were left to various friends and other family members.\n\nJackson had three adopted sons: Theodore, an Indian about whom little is known, Andrew Jackson Jr., the son of Rachel's brother Severn Donelson, and Lyncoya, a Creek Indian orphan adopted by Jackson after the Battle of Tallushatchee. Lyncoya died of tuberculosis on July 1, 1828, at the age of sixteen.\n\nThe Jacksons also acted as guardians for eight other children. John Samuel Donelson, Daniel Smith Donelson, and Andrew Jackson Donelson were the sons of Rachel's brother Samuel Donelson, who died in 1804. Andrew Jackson Hutchings was Rachel's orphaned grand nephew. Caroline Butler, Eliza Butler, Edward Butler, and Anthony Butler were the orphaned children of Edward Butler, a family friend. They came to live with the Jacksons after the death of their father.\n\nThe widower Jackson invited Rachel's niece Emily Donelson to serve as hostess at the White House. Emily was married to Andrew Jackson Donelson, who acted as Jackson's private secretary and in 1856 ran for vice president on the American Party ticket. The relationship between the President and Emily became strained during the Petticoat affair, and the two became estranged for over a year. They eventually reconciled and she resumed her duties as White House hostess. Sarah Yorke Jackson, the wife of Andrew Jackson Jr., became co-hostess of the White House in 1834. It was the only time in history when two women simultaneously acted as unofficial First Lady. Sarah took over all hostess duties after Emily died from tuberculosis in 1836. Jackson used Rip Raps as a retreat.\n\nJackson's quick temper was notorious. Biographer H. W. Brands notes that his opponents were terrified of his temper: \"Observers likened him to a volcano, and only the most intrepid or recklessly curious cared to see it erupt. ... His close associates all had stories of his blood-curdling oaths, his summoning of the Almighty to loose His wrath upon some miscreant, typically followed by his own vow to hang the villain or blow him to perdition. Given his record—in duels, brawls, mutiny trials, and summary hearings—listeners had to take his vows seriously.\"\n\nOn the last day of his presidency, Jackson admitted that he had but two regrets, that he \"had been unable to shoot Henry Clay or to hang John C. Calhoun.\" On his deathbed, he was once again quoted as regretting that he had not hanged Calhoun for treason. \"My country would have sustained me in the act, and his fate would have been a warning to traitors in all time to come,\" he said. Remini expresses the opinion that Jackson was typically in control of his temper, and that he used his anger, along with his fearsome reputation, as a tool to get what he wanted.\n\nJackson was a lean figure, standing at tall, and weighing between on average. Jackson also had an unruly shock of red hair, which had completely grayed by the time he became president at age 61. He had penetrating deep blue eyes. Jackson was one of the more sickly presidents, suffering from chronic headaches, abdominal pains, and a hacking cough. Much of his trouble was caused by a musket ball in his lung that was never removed, that often brought up blood and sometimes made his whole body shake.\n\nIn 1838, Jackson became an official member of the First Presbyterian Church in Nashville. Both his mother and his wife had been devout Presbyterians all their lives, but Jackson himself had postponed officially entering the church in order to avoid accusations that he was joining only for political reasons.\n\nJackson was a Freemason, initiated at Harmony Lodge No. 1 in Tennessee; he also participated in chartering several other lodges in Tennessee. He was the only U.S. president to have served as Grand Master of a state's Grand Lodge until Harry S. Truman in 1945. His Masonic apron is on display in the Tennessee State Museum. An obelisk and bronze Masonic plaque decorate his tomb at the Hermitage.\n\nJackson remains one of the most studied and controversial figures in American history. Historian Charles Grier Sellers says, \"Andrew Jackson's masterful personality was enough by itself to make him one of the most controversial figures ever to stride across the American stage.\" There has never been universal agreement on Jackson's legacy, for \"his opponents have ever been his most bitter enemies, and his friends almost his worshippers.\" He was always a fierce partisan, with many friends and many enemies. He has been lauded as the champion of the common man, while criticized for his treatment of Indians and for other matters. James Parton was the first man after Jackson's death to write a full biography of him. Trying to sum up the contradictions in his subject, he wrote:\n\nJackson was criticized by his contemporary Alexis de Tocqueville in \"Democracy in America\" for flattering the dominant ideas of his time, including the mistrust over the federal power, for sometimes enforcing his view by force and disrespect towards the institutions and the law:\n\nIn the 20th century, Jackson was written about by many admirers. Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.'s \"Age of Jackson\" (1945) depicts Jackson as a man of the people battling inequality and upper-class tyranny. From the 1970s to the 1980s, Robert Remini published a three-volume biography of Jackson followed by an abridged one-volume study. Remini paints a generally favorable portrait of Jackson. He contends that Jacksonian democracy \"stretches the concept of democracy about as far as it can go and still remain workable. ... As such it has inspired much of the dynamic and dramatic events of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in American history—Populism, Progressivism, the New and Fair Deals, and the programs of the New Frontier and Great Society.\" To Remini, Jackson serves as \"the embodiment of the new American ... This new man was no longer British. He no longer wore the queue and silk pants. He wore trousers, and he had stopped speaking with a British accent.\" Other 20th-century writers such as Richard Hofstadter and Bray Hammond depict Jackson as an advocate of the sort of \"laissez-faire\" capitalism that benefits the rich and oppresses the poor.\n\nJackson's initiatives to deal with the conflicts between Indians and American settlers has been a source of controversy. Starting mainly around 1970, Jackson came under attack from some historians on this issue. Howard Zinn called him \"the most aggressive enemy of the Indians in early American history\" and \"exterminator of Indians.\" Conversely, in 1969, Francis Paul Prucha argued that Jackson's removal of the \"Five Civilized Tribes\" from the extremely hostile white environment in the Old South to Oklahoma probably saved their very existence. Similarly, Remini claims that, if not for Jackson's policies, the Southern tribes would have been totally wiped out, just like other tribes-namely, the Yamasee, Mahican, and Narragansett–which did not move. Jackson has long been honored, along with Thomas Jefferson, in the Jefferson–Jackson Day fundraising dinners held by state Democratic Party organizations to honor the two men whom the party regards as its founders. Because both Jefferson and Jackson were slave owners, as well as because of Jackson's Indian removal policies, many state party organizations have renamed the dinners.\n\nBrands argues that Jackson's reputation suffered since the 1960s as his actions towards Indians and African Americans received new attention. He also claims that the Indian controversy overshadowed Jackson's other achievements. Noting shifting attitudes on different national issues, Brands notes that he was often hailed during his lifetime as the \"second George Washington,\" because, while Washington had fought for independence, Jackson confirmed it at New Orleans and made the United States a great power. Over time, while the Revolution has maintained a strong presence in the public conscience, memory of the War of 1812, including the Battle of New Orleans, has sharply declined. Brands argues that this is because once America had become a military power, \"it was easy to think that America had been destined for this role from the beginning.\"\n\nStill, Jackson's performance in office has generally been ranked in the top half in public opinion polling. His position in C-SPAN's poll dropped from 13th in 2009 to 18th in 2017.\n\nJackson has appeared on U.S. banknotes as far back as 1869, and extending into the 21st century. His image has appeared on the $5, $10, $20 and $10,000 note. Most recently, his image has appeared on the U.S. $20 Federal reserve note beginning in 1928. In 2016, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew announced his goal that by 2020 an image of Harriet Tubman would replace Jackson's depiction on the front side of the $20 banknote, and that an image of Jackson would be placed on the reverse side, though the final decision will be made by his successors.\n\nJackson has appeared on several postage stamps. He first appeared on an 1863 two-cent stamp, which is commonly referred to by collectors as the \"Black Jack\" due to the large portraiture of Jackson on its face printed in pitch black. During the American Civil War, the Confederate government issued two Confederate postage stamps bearing Jackson's portrait, one a and the other a , both issued in 1863.\n\nNumerous counties and cities are named after him, including the city of Jacksonville in Florida and North Carolina; the cities of Jackson in Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, and Tennessee; Jackson County in Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, and Oregon; and Jackson Parish in Louisiana.\n\nMemorials to Jackson include a set of four identical equestrian statues by the sculptor Clark Mills: in Lafayette Square, Washington, D.C.; in Jackson Square, New Orleans; in Nashville on the grounds of the Tennessee State Capitol; and in Jacksonville, Florida. Other equestrian statues of Jackson have been erected elsewhere, as in the State Capitol grounds in Raleigh, North Carolina. That statue controversially identifies him as one of the \"presidents North Carolina gave the nation,\" and he is featured alongside James Polk and Andrew Johnson, both U.S. presidents born in North Carolina. There is a bust of Andrew Jackson in Plaza Ferdinand VII in Pensacola, Florida, where he became the first governor of the Florida Territory in 1821. There is also a 1928 bronze sculpture of Andrew Jackson by Belle Kinney Scholz and Leopold Scholz in the U.S. Capitol Building as part of the National Statuary Hall Collection.\n\nJackson and his wife Rachel were the main subjects of a 1951 historical novel by Irving Stone, \"The President's Lady\", which told the story of their lives up until Rachel's death. The novel was the basis for the 1953 film of the same name starring Charlton Heston as Jackson and Susan Hayward as Rachel.\n\nJackson has been a supporting character in a number of historical films and television productions. Lionel Barrymore played Jackson in \"The Gorgeous Hussy\" (1936), a fictionalized biography of Peggy Eaton starring Joan Crawford. \"The Buccaneer\" (1938), depicting the Battle of New Orleans, included Hugh Sothern as Jackson, and was remade in 1958 with Heston again playing Jackson. Basil Ruysdael played Jackson in Walt Disney's 1955 \"Davy Crockett\" TV miniseries. Wesley Addy appeared as Jackson in some episodes of the 1976 PBS miniseries \"The Adams Chronicles\".\n\nJackson is the protagonist of the comedic historic rock musical \"Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson\" (2008) with music and lyrics by Michael Friedman and book by Alex Timbers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18408394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18408394", "title": "Arquímedes Arrieta", "text": "Arquímedes Arrieta\n\nArquímedes Arrieta (born May 1, 1918) is an Uruguayan boxer who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1936 he was eliminated in the second round of the featherweight class after losing his fight to John Treadaway.\n\n"}
{"id": "937649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=937649", "title": "Billionaires for Bush", "text": "Billionaires for Bush\n\nBillionaires for Bush was a culture jamming political street theater organization that satirically purported to support George W. Bush, drawing attention to policies which were perceived to benefit corporations and the super-wealthy. The group would typically dress as parodies of wealthy \"establishment\" figures in tuxedos while proclaiming slogans such as \"Two Million Jobs Lost—It's a Start\".\n\nA secret New York City Police Department intelligence report, based on undercover surveillance of the group in 2003 and 2004 in advance of the 2004 Republican National Convention in New York City, described the Billionaires as \"an activist group forged as a mockery of the current president and political policies\".\n\nThe organization had first been founded by Andrew Boyd as \"Billionaires for Forbes\", but Forbes left the 2000 race for the Republican Presidential nomination early due to a lack of adequate voter support. In 1999, Billionaires were present as Steve Forbes announced his candidacy for President and jeered him as he signed a flat tax pledge in New Hampshire. The Billionaire Manual describes the action:\n\nThey wore conservative jackets and ties (but no bowler hats, etc.) and carried innocuous signs such as \"Run, Steve, Run.\" Happy to have grass-roots support, the Forbes handlers (who believed the Billionaires were students from a nearby business school) placed them in front of the cameras, very near to the podium from which Forbes was speaking. However, each of their signs had another sign behind it. And behind their banner (which read \"Forbes 2000: He wants YOU to win\") was another banner, waiting. At the most dramatic moment of his announcement, the Billionaires flipped their signs, and pulled away the large banner to reveal one which read: \"Billionaires for Forbes: Because Inequality isn't Growing Fast Enough.\" The Billionaires started chanting \"Let workers pay the tax so investors can relax!\" and other slogans. Forbes and his handlers were completely thrown off, a little tussle ensued, and the Billionaires were pushed off to the side away from the cameras. Not wanting to miss the action, half the TV crews left the Forbes speech to cover the Billionaires. The action got lots of coverage.\n\nDuring the 2000 U.S. presidential election the organization was led by Andrew Boyd and Jenny Levison as \"Billionaires for Bush (or Gore),\" with the message that whichever candidate became president, corporations and the wealthy were guaranteed to benefit. The group spoke out under the motto \"Because Economic Inequality Is Not Growing Fast Enough\".\n\nThe group appeared at the 2000 Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, California, satirically praising major corporations for their financial support of the convention by attempting to deliver thank you cards to Fleet Bank, Fidelity Investments and Verizon Communications.\n\nThe Billionaires planned a \"Million Billionaires March\" at the 2000 Republican National Convention in Philadelphia held the day before the convention. Other activities included a \"Vigil for corporate welfare\" and an auction of corporate advertising rights for the Liberty Bell.\n\nAt a March 2004 fundraiser on Long Island attended by President Bush, Billionaires for Bush came to show their \"support\", with men dressed in tuxedos with top hats and women in evening gowns and long gloves. The groups laminated posters featured such slogans as \"Leave No Billionaire Behind\" and \"Corporations Are People Too.\"\n\nTheir largest events to date took place as part of the 2004 Republican National Convention protest activity. A separate group, however, continued on in the plague-on-both-your-houses style as \"Billionaires For Bush Or Kerry\".\n\nA \"Million Billionaires March\" on July 27, 2004, in conjunction with the 2004 Democratic National Convention in Boston, Massachusetts, attracted 150 marchers who presented a faux check made out for the amount of \"whatever it takes\" to the local offices of the Republican Party, as part of an effort to \"defeat\" Kerry.\n\nLawsuits filed against the New York City Police Department after the 2004 Republican Convention uncovered the fact that Billionaires for Bush had been among groups infiltrated by the NYPD by its undercover officers gathering intelligence in advance of the convention.\n\nThe group remained active after 2004, but was less prominent. It used its established meme to raise awareness to a myriad of economic issues including Social Security privatization, the Iraq War, the Estate Tax and gentrification.\n\nThe group was led by a triumvirate of co-chairs Elissa Jiji, Marco Ceglie, and Melody Bates.\n\nMembers typically dressed in stereotypically wealthy attire, such as tuxedos and top hats or evening gowns and pearls and adopt names like \"Mo Bludfer Oyle\" (more blood for oil, a reference to the Iraq war) and \"Phil T. Rich\" (filthy rich).\n\nMembers also dressed in less stereotypical attire to perform more subtle pranks, as described in the Forbes example, above.\n\nExamples of Billionaire events include:\n\nThese events and message were designed to attract media coverage.\n\nSome of their political slogans include \"Small Government, Big Wars,\" \"Because We're All In This Together, Sort Of,\" \"Two Million Jobs Lost—It's a Start,\" \"Leave No Billionaire Behind,\" \"Make Social Security Neither,\" and \"Corporations are People Too.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "611272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=611272", "title": "Black Knight (Arthurian legend)", "text": "Black Knight (Arthurian legend)\n\nThe Black Knight appears in various forms in Arthurian legend.\n\nA supernatural Black Knight is summoned by Sir Calogrenant (Cynon ap Clydno in Welsh mythology) in the tale of \"Yvain, the Knight of the Lion\". The Black Knight bests Calogrenant, but the Black Knight is later killed by Ywain (Owain mab Urien) when he attempts to complete the quest that Calogrenant failed.\n\nPerhaps the first mentioned of a Black Knight by name is in Raoul de Houdenc's \"La Vengeance Raguidel\" (early 13th century), where \"Noir Chevalier\" is first mentioned on line 633.\n\nThe eponymous protagonist of Morien wears black armour and bears a black shield, in addition to having black skin, and as such is occasionally referred to as \"the black knight\".\n\nIn \"Sir Perceval of Galles\" (written in the early 14th century), the Black Knight jealously tied his wife to a tree after hearing she had exchanged rings with Perceval. Perceval defeated the black knight and explained that it was an innocent exchange.\n\nA black knight is also mentioned \"La Morte D'Arthur: The Tale of Sir Gareth\" (book 4) as having been killed by Gareth when he was traveling to rescue Lyonesse.\n\nA black knight is the son of Tom a'Lincoln and Anglitora (the daughter of Prester John) in Richard Johnson's Arthurian romance, \"Tom a Lincoln\". Through Tom, he is a grandson of King Arthur's, though his proper name is never given. He killed his mother after hearing from his father's ghost that she had murdered him. He later joined the Faerie Knight, his half-brother, in adventures.\n\n"}
{"id": "24812791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24812791", "title": "Breaux Brothers", "text": "Breaux Brothers\n\nBreaux Frères or Breaux Brothers (Amédé on accordion, Ophé on guitar, and Cléopha on the fiddle), were Cajun musicians. They were the earliest to record the song \"Jolie Blonde\", under the title of \"Ma Blonde Est Partie\".\n\nAmédé Breaux was born on September 1, 1900 north of Rayne, Louisiana near a community called Robert's Cove. He died in 1975. His father, August Breaux, later moved to north of Egan, Louisiana where he farmed. Amédé started playing the accordion when he was 12 years old and was playing house parties at the age of 14.\n\nThe whole family started playing music at a young age. When his brothers, Ophey and Clifford, and his sister, Cleoma Breaux Falcon, were old enough they played music together. That was when he recorded \"Vas y Carrément (Step It Fast)\" and \"Poor Hobo\" in 1929 for Columbia Records. After he recorded \"Ma Blonde Est Partie\" (the earliest version of \"Jole Blon\" ever recorded) on April 18, 1929, he formed the Breaux Brothers band, consisting of Amédé, Ophey and Clifford. According to Cleoma's daughter, while Amédé is credited with writing the song, it was his sister Cleoma Breaux who actually wrote the lyrics while Amédé sung the song on the recording.\n\nIn October 1934, the trio recorded in San Antonio, Texas for Vocalion releasing 16 songs. That same year, Alan Lomax recorded the brothers playing \"Little Dog Blues\". In December 1937, they traveled with Joe Falcon and Cleoma Breaux and recorded in Dallas, Texas for Decca Records, usually working together or even recording solo. Much of this work would be versions of popular country or swing tunes and they would be listed in multiple combinations of their names, sometimes with or without all the members. During that session, Clifford would go on to record \"Continuer De Sonner\" which is an early version of the song \"Keep A-Knockin' popularized in 1957 by Little Richard.\n\nAmédé would eventually form a band in 1949 called The Acadian Aces. He made approximately 20 other recordings from 1930 through 1951. Some of these recordings included, \"Hathaway Two Step\", \"Crowley Two Step,\" \"Chere Mom,\" and \"Criminal Waltz.\" He and his band played on a tour all over Louisiana and East Texas.\n\nTheir work can be heard on the following discs:\n\n"}
{"id": "34222746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34222746", "title": "Brian Huskey", "text": "Brian Huskey\n\nBrian Huskey (born September 8, 1968) is an American actor, comedian, and writer. He co-stars in the TBS comedy \"People of Earth\". His other roles include Chet on the Adult Swim comedy series \"Childrens Hospital\", and Victor on the Comedy Central series \"Another Period\".\n\nHuskey was born in Charlotte, North Carolina, and did not meet his biological father until he was 17. He attended Charlotte Country Day School for the entirety of grade school, graduating in 1987. He attended University of North Carolina at Greensboro, graduating with a degree in English and minor in photography. Around this time he began to play in the band Bicycle Face.\n\nHuskey later relocated to New York City to attend photo school and worked as a photographer's assistant. He met and was later roommates with Rob Corddry.\n\nHuskey studied and performed improvisational comedy during the start of the original Upright Citizens Brigade Theater (UCB) in New York City and had each of the \"UCB4\" (Matt Besser, Matt Walsh, Amy Poehler and Ian Roberts) as teachers. From there, he frequently appeared in comedy sketches on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" for many years and was a panelist on VH1's \"Best Week Ever\".\n\nAt UCB, Huskey was a member of the sketch comedy troupe The Naked Babies, with comedians Rob Corddry, Seth Morris and John Ross Bowie. He has since worked on Corddry's Adult Swim series \"Childrens Hospital\", playing the role of Chet the creepy EMT worker, as well as alter ego Mark Splorn. Huskey also appeared as correspondent Duncan Birch on the IFC cable news satire \"Onion News Network\".\n\nOther programs in which Huskey co-starred include \"Damage Control\" and \"Free Radio\". Huskey also appeared on the sitcoms \"Selfie\" and \"The Real O'Neals\".\n\nHe made some notable early television appearances in a series of commercials opposite Molly Erdman in a campaign for Sonic Drive-In. Both actors would later be fired from this role as the result of an \"Onion News Network\" veterans parody he wrote and performed. Huskey has appeared in commercials for Wendy's, and, in 2011, \"The Swagger Wagon\" ad campaign for the Toyota Sienna. He has appeared in a campaign for Bai Brands alongside Justin Timberlake.\n\nHuskey has also made many guest appearances on comedy programs including \"Community\", \"Parks and Recreation\", \"Nick Swardson's Pretend Time\", \"Worst Week\", \"Happy Endings\", \"Animal Practice\", \"The Inbetweeners\", \"Workaholics\", and \"Veep\". He has appeared in films such as \"Superbad\", \"Step Brothers\", \"Semi-Pro\", and \"Meet Dave\".\n\nHe starred in the YouTube miniseries \"If Google Was A Guy\" on the YouTube channel CollegeHumor, acting as an anthropomorphic visualization of the search engine Google.\n\nIn 2014, Huskey co-wrote the film \"A Better You\", with UCB co-founder Matt Walsh. Huskey starred in the film and Walsh directed.\n\nHe has also been on many podcasts, including as a recurring character on \"Womp It Up!\" as the stepfather of one of the main characters.\n\n"}
{"id": "368096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368096", "title": "Charles Cotesworth Pinckney", "text": "Charles Cotesworth Pinckney\n\nCharles Cotesworth Pinckney (February 25, 1746 – August 16, 1825) was an early American statesman of South Carolina, Revolutionary War veteran, and delegate to the Constitutional Convention. He was twice nominated by the Federalist Party as its presidential candidate in 1804 and 1808, losing both elections.\n\nPinckney was born into a powerful family of aristocratic planters. He practiced law for several years and was elected to the colonial legislature. A supporter of independence from Britain, Pinckney served in the American Revolutionary War, rising to the rank of brigadier general. After the war, he won election to the South Carolina legislature, where he and his brother Thomas Pinckney represented the landed elite of the South Carolina Lowcountry. An advocate of a stronger federal government, Pinckney served as a delegate to the 1787 Philadelphia Convention, which wrote a new federal constitution. Pinckney's influence helped ensure that South Carolina would ratify the United States Constitution.\n\nPinckney declined George Washington's first offer to serve in his administration, but in 1796 Pinckney accepted the position of Minister to France. In what became known as the XYZ Affair, the French demanded a bribe before they would agree to meet with the American delegation. Pinckney returned to the United States, accepting an appointment as a general during the Quasi-War with France. Though he had resisted joining either major party for much of the 1790s, Pinckney began to identify with the Federalist Party following his return from France. The Federalists chose him as their vice presidential nominee in the 1800 election, hoping that his presence on the ticket could win support for the party in the South. Though Alexander Hamilton schemed to elect Pinckney president under the electoral rules then in place, both Pinckney and incumbent Federalist President John Adams were defeated by the Democratic-Republican candidates.\n\nSeeing little hope of defeating popular incumbent President Thomas Jefferson, the Federalists chose Pinckney as their presidential nominee for the 1804 election. Neither Pinckney nor the party pursued an active campaign, and Jefferson won in a landslide. The Federalists nominated Pinckney again in 1808, in the hope that Pinckney's military experience and Jefferson's economic policies would give the party a chance of winning. Though the 1808 presidential election was closer than the 1804 election had been, Democratic-Republican nominee James Madison nonetheless prevailed.\n\nCharles Cotesworth Pinckney was born into the Pinckney family of elite planters in Charleston, South Carolina, on February 25, 1746. He was the son of Charles Pinckney, who would later serve as the chief justice of the Province of South Carolina, and Eliza Lucas, celebrated as a planter and agriculturalist, who is credited with developing indigo cultivation in this area. A younger brother was Thomas Pinckney, who served as Governor of South Carolina, as a U.S. Representative, and as a George Washington administration diplomat. His first cousin once removed, Charles Pinckney, served as Governor of South Carolina, as a U.S. Senator, and as a diplomat in the administration of Thomas Jefferson.\n\nIn 1753, Pinckney's father moved the family to London, England, where he served as the colony's agent (essentially as a lobbyist to protect South Carolina's commercial and political interests). Both Charles and his brother Thomas were enrolled in the Westminster School, where they continued as students after the rest of the family returned to South Carolina in 1758. Both brothers also studied at Oxford University. Pinckney matriculated from Christ Church, Oxford in 1764, and left to study law at the Middle Temple in 1766. Pinckney was called to the bar in 1768, but he continued his education in France for another year, studying botany and chemistry. He also had a brief stint at the Royal Military College at Caen.\n\nAfter returning to the colonies, in 1773, Pinckney married Sarah Middleton. Her father Henry Middleton later served as the second President of the Continental Congress and her brother Arthur Middleton signed the Declaration of Independence. Sarah died in 1784. In 1786, Pinckney married again, to Mary Stead, who came from a wealthy family of planters in Georgia. Pinckney had three daughters.\n\n\nAfter returning to South Carolina from Europe, Pinckney began to practice law in Charleston. He was first elected to a seat in the colonial legislature in 1770. In 1773 he served as a regional attorney general. When war erupted between the thirteen American colonies and Great Britain in 1775, Pinckney stood with the American Patriots; in that year he was a member of the first South Carolina provincial congress, which helped South Carolina transition from being a British colony to being an independent state. During the American Revolutionary War, he served in the lower house of the state legislature and as a member of the South Carolina Senate, in addition to his military service.\n\nIn 1775, after the American Revolutionary War had broken out, Pinckney volunteered for military service as a full-time regular officer in George Washington's Continental Army. As a senior company commander with the rank of captain, Pinckney raised and led the elite Grenadiers of the 1st South Carolina Regiment. He participated in the successful defense of Charleston in the Battle of Sullivan's Island in June 1776, when British forces under General Sir Henry Clinton staged an amphibious attack on the state capital. Later in 1776 Pinckney took command of the regiment, with the rank of colonel, a position he retained to the end of the war.\n\nAfter this, the British Army shifted its focus to the Northern and Mid-Atlantic states. Pinckney led his regiment north to join General Washington's troops near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Pinckney and his regiment participated in the Battle of Brandywine and the Battle of Germantown. Around this time he first met fellow officers Alexander Hamilton and James McHenry, who became future Federalist statesmen. \n\nIn 1778, Pinckney and his regiment, returning to the South, took part in a failed American expedition attempting to seize British East Florida. The expedition ended due to severe logistical difficulties and a British victory in the Battle of Alligator Bridge. Later that year, the British Army shifted its focus to the Southern theater, capturing Savannah, Georgia, in December 1778. In October 1779, the Southern army of Major General Benjamin Lincoln, with Pinckney leading one of its brigades, attempted to re-take the city in the Siege of Savannah. This attack was disaster for the Americans, who suffered numerous casualties.\n\nPinckney participated in the 1780 defense of Charleston against British siege but the city fell. Major General Lincoln surrendered his 5,000 men to the British on May 12, 1780, and Pinckney became a prisoner of war. As such, he demonstrated leadership, playing a major role in maintaining the troops' loyalty to the Patriots' cause. During this time, he said, \"If I had a vein that did not beat with the love of my Country, I myself would open it. If I had a drop of blood that could flow dishonorable, I myself would let it out.\" He was kept in close confinement until his release in 1782. In November 1783, he was commissioned a brevet Brigadier General in the Continental Army shortly before the southern regiments were disbanded. He was promoted to Major General during his subsequent service in the South Carolina militia.\n\nWith the conclusion of the Revolutionary War, Pinckney returned to his legal practice, becoming one of the most acclaimed attorneys in South Carolina. He also returned to the lower house of the South Carolina legislature, and he and his brother, Thomas, became major political powers in the state. He became an advocate of the landed elite of the South Carolina Lowcountry, who dominated the state's government during this period. Though close friends with fellow legislator Edward Rutledge, Pinckney opposed the latter's attempts to end the importation of slaves, arguing that South Carolina's economy required the continual infusion of new slaves. Pinckney also took the lead in negotiating the end to a border dispute with the state of Georgia, and he signed the Convention of Beaufort, which temporarily solved some of the disputes.\n\nThe Revolutionary War had convinced many in South Carolina, including Pinckney, that the defense of the state required the cooperation of the other colonies. As such, Pinckney advocated a stronger national government than that provided by the Articles of Confederation, and he represented South Carolina at the Constitutional Convention of 1787. Pinckney advocated that African American slaves be counted as a basis of representation.\nAccording to a book review in \"The New York Times\" in January 2015:\n\nThe Northwest Ordinance of July 1787 held that slaves 'may be lawfully reclaimed' from free states and territories, and soon after, a fugitive slave clause – Article IV, Section 2 – was woven into the Constitution at the insistence of the Southern delegates, leading South Carolina's Charles C. Pinckney to boast, 'We have obtained a right to recover our slaves in whatever part of America they may take refuge, which is a right we had not before.'\n\nPinckney advocated for a strong national government (albeit one with a system of checks and balances) to replace the weak one of the time. He opposed as impractical the election of representatives by popular vote. He also opposed paying senators, who, he thought, should be men of independent wealth. Pinckney played a key role in requiring treaties to be ratified by the Senate and in the compromise that resulted in the abolition of the Atlantic slave trade. He also opposed placing a limitation on the size of a federal standing army.\n\nPinckney played a prominent role in securing the ratification of the Federal constitution in the South Carolina convention of 1788, and in framing the South Carolina Constitution in the convention of 1790. At the ratification convention, Pinckney distinguished three types of government and said republics were where \"the people at large, either collectively or by representation, form the legislature\". After this, he announced his retirement from politics.\n\nIn 1789, President George Washington offered Pinckney his choice of the State Department or the War Department; Pinckney declined both. When Washington offered Pinckney the role of Minister to France in 1796, Pinckney accepted. Relations with the French First Republic were then at a low ebb: the Jay Treaty between the US and Great Britain had angered members of the ruling French Directory, and they had ordered the French Navy to step up seizures of American merchant vessels found to be trading with Britain, with whom France was at war. When Pinckney presented his credentials in November 1796, they were refused, with the Directory stating that no ambassador could be accepted until the outstanding crisis was resolved. Pinckney was outraged by the offense.\n\nAfter Pinckney reported this to the recently inaugurated President John Adams in 1797, a commission composed of Pinckney, John Marshall, and Elbridge Gerry was established to treat with the French. Gerry and Marshall joined Pinckney at The Hague, and traveled to Paris in October 1797. After a cursory preliminary meeting with the new French Foreign Minister Talleyrand, the commissioners were approached informally by a series of intermediaries who spelled out French demands. These included a large loan to France, which the commissioners had been instructed to refuse, and substantial bribes for Talleyrand and members of the Directory, which the commissioners found offensive. These exchanges became the basis for what became known as the \"XYZ Affair\" when documents concerning them were published in 1798.\n\nTalleyrand, who was aware of political differences in the commission (Pinckney and Marshall were Federalists who favored Britain, and Gerry wavered politically between moderate Federalism ideas and the Jeffersonian Republicans, who favored France and were strongly hostile to Britain), exploited this division in the informal discussions. Pinckney and Marshall left France in April 1798; Gerry remained behind in an unofficial capacity, seeking to moderate French demands. The breakdown of negotiations led to what became known as the undeclared Quasi-War (1798–1800), pitting the two nation's navies against each other.\n\nWith a potential war looming, Congress authorized the expansion of the army, and President Adams asked Washington to take command as commander-in-chief of the army. As a condition for accepting the position, Washington insisted that Pinckney be offered a position as a general. Washington believed that Pinckney's military experience and political support in the South made him indispensable in defending against a possible invasion by the French. Many Federalists feared that Pinckney would chafe at serving under Hamilton, who had been appointed as Washington's second-in-command, but Pinckney pleasantly surprised the Federalists by accepting his appointment as a general without complaint.\n\nPinckney and his political allies had resisted becoming closely allied with the Federalist or Democratic-Republican parties during the 1790s, but Pinckney began to identify as a Federalist following his return from France. With the support of Hamilton, Pinckney became the Federalist vice presidential nominee in the 1800 presidential election. Pinckney's military and political service had won him national stature, and Federalists hoped that Pinckney could win some Southern votes against Democratic-Republican nominee Thomas Jefferson. Hamilton had even greater hopes, as he wished to displace Adams as president and viewed Pinckney as more amenable to his policies. In-fighting between supporters of Adams and Hamilton plagued the Federalists, and the Democratic-Republicans won the election. Pinckney himself refused to become involved in Hamilton's plans to make him president, and promised not to accept the votes of any elector who was not also pledged to Adams.\n\nFederalists saw little hope of defeating the popular Jefferson in the 1804 election; though the party remained strong in New England, Jefferson was widely expected to win the Southern and mid-Atlantic states. With little hope of winning the presidency, the Federalists nominated Pinckney as their presidential candidate, but neither Pinckney nor the Federalists pursued an active presidential campaign against Jefferson. The Federalists hoped that Pinckney's military reputation and his status as a Southerner would show that the Federalist Party remained a national party, but they knew that Pinckney had little chance of winning even his own home state. Jefferson won the election in a rout, taking 162 electoral votes compared to Pinckney's 14. Pinckney's defeat in South Carolina made him the first major party presidential nominee to lose his own home state.\n\nJefferson's second term proved more difficult than his first, as the British and French attacked American shipping as part of the Napoleonic Wars. With Jefferson's popularity waning, Federalists entertained stronger hopes of winning back the presidency in 1808 than they had in 1804. With the support of Jefferson, James Madison was put forward as the Democratic-Republican nominee. Some Federalists favored supporting a renegade Democratic-Republican in James Monroe or George Clinton, but at the Federalist nominating convention, the party again turned to Pinckney. With a potential war against France or Britain looming, the Federalists hoped that Pinckney's military experience would appeal to the nation. The Federalists won Delaware and most of New England, but Madison won the remaining states and won a commanding majority of the electoral college.\n\nFrom 1805 until his death in 1825, Pinckney was president-general of the Society of the Cincinnati.\n\nPinckney was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1813.\n\nPinckney died on August 16, 1825 and was buried in St. Michael's Churchyard in Charleston, South Carolina. His tombstone reads, \"One of the founders of the American Republic. In war he was a companion in arms and friend of Washington. In peace he enjoyed his unchanging confidence.\"\n\nAccording to the state library of South Carolina,\n\nPinckney owned slaves throughout his life and believed that slavery was necessary to the economy of South Carolina. At the Constitutional Convention, he agreed to abolish the slave trade in 1808, but opposed emancipation. In 1801, Pinckney owned about 250 slaves. When his daughter Eliza married, Pinckney gave her fifty slaves. On his death, he bequeathed his remaining slaves to his daughters and nephews.\n\nIn the South Carolina House of Representatives, on January 18, 1788, Pinckney offered several defenses for the lack of a bill of rights in the proposed U. S. Constitution. One was that bills of rights generally begin by declaring that all men are by nature born free. The reporter's summary of his observation concluded, \"Now, we should make that declaration with a very bad grace, when a large part of our property consists in men who are actually born slaves.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7281147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7281147", "title": "Chattar Singh Attariwalla", "text": "Chattar Singh Attariwalla\n\nGeneral Chattar Singh Attariwalla, also spelt Chatar Singh Aṭārīvālā, was Governor of Hazara province and a military commander in the army of the Sikh Empire during the reign of Maharaja Duleep Singh in the Punjab.\n\nHe fought in the Second Anglo-Sikh War against the British. \n\nChatar Siṅgh died in Calcutta on 27 December 1855.\n\nChatar Singh was the son of Jodh Siṅgh Aṭārīvālā. He was born into a Sidhu Jat family. He had two sons, Raja Sher Singh Attariwalla and Avtār Singh. Sher Singh dealt a devastating blow on the army of the British East India Company at the Battle of Chillianwala. His daughter Tej Kaur was betrothed to Duleep Singh, but after the First Anglo-Sikh War the British Resident, Sir Frederick Currie did not honour the betrothal.\n\nOn the death of his father in 1805, Chatar Singh inherited large jagirs and occupied himself with farming his estates. He rose into political prominence in 1843, after the assassination of Maharaja Sher Singh, and his daughter Tej Kaur was betrothed to Maharaja Duleep Singh. In 1846 he was made Governor of Peshawar and the following year the Council of Regency recommended him for the title of Raja, but he asked that instead the title be conferred on his son, Sher Singh.\n\nIn 1848 he was appointed as Governor of the Hazara province. There he came into conflict with Captain James Abbott the British Deputy Commissioner of the Hazara District. Abbott alleged that Chatar Singh was conspiring to subvert British authority in the Punjab. The British Resident at Lahore, Sir Frederick Currie commissioned an investigation by Captain John Nicholson who exonerated Chatar Siṅgh, and also justified the defensive measures he had taken to save the besieged capital of Hazārā from Abbott's Muhammadan mercenaries. Despite this, Currie virtually dismissed Chatar Singh and confiscated his jagirs. After this, and the failure of the Resident to honour the betrothal of his sister, Sher Singh, who had been fighting alongside the British, changed sides. In the second Anglo-Sikh War, Sher Singh inflicted a serious blow on the British at the Battle of Chillianwala, but was defeated at the subsequent Battle of Gujrat. Following the battle, Chatar Siṅgh and his sons, Rājā Sher Siṅgh and Avtār Singh, were imprisoned at first at Allāhābād and then at Fort William at Calcutta.\n\nPunjab Army\n\n"}
{"id": "556972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=556972", "title": "Chickenhawk (politics)", "text": "Chickenhawk (politics)\n\nChickenhawk (chicken hawk or chicken-hawk) is a political term used in the United States to describe a person who strongly supports war or other military action (i.e., a war hawk), yet who actively avoids or avoided military service when of age.\n\nThe term indicates that the person in question is hypocritical for personally dodging a draft or otherwise shirking their duty to their country during a time of armed conflict while advocating that others do so. Generally, the implication is that chickenhawks lack the moral character to participate in war themselves, preferring to ask others to support, fight and perhaps die in an armed conflict.\n\nIn political usage, \"chickenhawk\" is a compound of \"chicken\" (meaning \"coward\") and \"hawk\" (meaning someone who advocates war, first used to describe \"War Hawks\" in the War of 1812).\n\nOn one episode of the American television show \"Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In\" that aired in 1970, Dan Rowan made the following joke:\n\nThe 1983 bestselling book \"Chickenhawk\" was a memoir by Robert Mason about his service in the Vietnam War, in which he was a helicopter pilot. Mason used the word as a compound oxymoron to describe both his fear of combat (\"chicken\") and his attraction to it (\"hawk\"), a slightly different use of the term which nonetheless might have inspired the current usage.\n\nPreviously, the term \"war wimp\" was sometimes used, coined during the Vietnam War by Congressman Andrew Jacobs, a Marine veteran of the Korean War. Jacobs defined a \"war wimp\" as \"someone who is all too willing to send others to war, but never got 'round to going himself\".\n"}
{"id": "7404077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7404077", "title": "Commission (document)", "text": "Commission (document)\n\nA commission is a formal document issued to appoint a named person to high office or as a commissioned officer in a territory's armed forces.\n\nCommissions are typically issued in the name of or signed by the head of state. In Commonwealth realms other than the United Kingdom, they may be signed by the Governor-General, the representative of the Monarch of the United Kingdom, who is also Commander-in-Chief in and over that realm.\n\nBecause the word \"commission\" can also refer generally to an individual's duty, the more specific terms commissioning parchment or commissioning scroll are often used to specify the commissioning document. However the document is not usually in the form of a scroll and is more often printed on paper instead of parchment. In Canada, there is a differentiation in terminology according to rank; officers are accorded commissioning scripts whereas Chief Warrant Officers are accorded \"scrolls\".\n\nHere is an example from Canada:\n\nCanadian Commissioning Scripts, as they are properly called by NDHQ, are signed by the Governor General of Canada and countersigned by the Minister of National Defence, on behalf of the Queen of Canada.\n\nHere is an example of the Royal Canadian Navy's Commission from pre-1968:\n\nOfficers in the Swedish Armed Forces have not received written commissions since 1982 when a new employment structure was instituted by law. They are nowadays hired on contracts, as in any other civil service position. Prior to 1982 all officers received written certificates of commission, each signed by the King of Sweden.\n\nThe wording used prior to 1982 in translation would be;\n\nThe following is typical of the wording of a British commission, and comes from the Royal Naval Reserve:\n\nThe above would be signed by the Queen (although a facsimile signature may be used) and countersigned by two members of the Admiralty Board.\n\nBefore the Board of Admiralty were merged into the Ministry of Defence in 1964, with the title of Lord High Admiral reverting to the Crown, the naval officer's commission was signed not by the Sovereign but by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, executing the office of Lord High Admiral. The naval officer's commission was worded as follows:\n\nSimilarly the following is the wording of a Lieutenant's Commission from 1800:\n\nIt was signed by two Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty and a Secretary, i.e. a quorum of the Board of Admiralty.\n\nArticle II, section 2, of the U.S. Constitution provides that the President \"shall Commission all the Officers of the United States,\" including officers of the uniformed services as well as civilian officers. Commissions of officers in the armed services are issued in the name of the President, although authority to sign on the President's behalf is generally exercised by the secretary of the department in which the officer is being commissioned. This includes not only \"commissioned officers\" but also \"commissioned warrant officers\" (warrant officers in the pay grades of W-2 through W-5). Warrant officers at the grade of W-1 are appointed by warrant by the secretary of their respective service, except in the Coast Guard where they are appointed by secretarial commission.\n\nThe commission of a newly commissioned officer reads:\n\nAt higher grade levels, appointments (including promotions) require Senate confirmation, and the wording of the commission reflects that fact: \"... I have nominated and, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, do appoint...\"\n\nThe Constitutional requirement mentioned above, that the President commission all officers of the United States, includes a wide range of civilian officials, including justices of the Supreme Court and other federal judges, U.S. attorneys and marshals, the heads of executive departments, subcabinet officials down to the level of assistant secretary, diplomatic representatives, and members of the Foreign Service, among others. Commissions are issued in the name of the President, either under his own signature or that of an official expressly delegated to act on his behalf, and under either the great seal of the United States or, if prescribed by law, the seal of the department in which the appointment is made.\n\nA typical commission for a Presidentially-appointed, Senate-confirmed civilian official in the Executive Branch would read:\nFor certain positions, other characteristics such as \"prudence\" (for ambassadors) or \"wisdom, uprightness, and learning\" (for judges) may be used in addition to or instead of \"integrity and ability.\" If a position is for a fixed term of years or \"during good behavior,\" the appropriate wording replaces the clause beginning \"during the pleasure of the President.\"\n\nCommissions of officers in the U.S. Foreign Service are also signed by the President. The commission of a newly commissioned officer reads:\n\nThe commission is countersigned by the Secretary of State, and the singular Great Seal of the United States, entrusted to the Secretary under the 1789 statute creating the Department of State, is affixed.\n\nA person applying for a license to be a notary public receives a \"commission\", generally indicating what political jurisdiction (state or District of Columbia) issued it, when it is valid (usually four years from issue) and the signature of the issuing authorities (usually the Governor and countersigned by the Secretary of State).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39251395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39251395", "title": "Corinne Mentzelopoulos", "text": "Corinne Mentzelopoulos\n\nCorinne Mentzelopoulos-Petit (born 6 July 1953) is a French-Greek businesswoman who owns and runs the prestigious Bordeaux wine estate, Château Margaux. Her wines have often won Bordeaux's Wine of the Vintage. She has been cited as one of the leading women in the wine industry.\n\nDaughter of the successful Greek supermarket magnate André Mentzelopoulos, Corinne Mentzelopoulos was born in Boulogne-Billancourt, just west of Paris. After graduating with a degree in classics, she attended the Institut d'études politiques de Paris (Institute of Political Studies in Paris) where she received her master's degree in 1979. Her only brother died at a young age leaving her the sole heir to the Château Margaux estate left by her father. She was proud of this inheritance and contributed to its further development.\n\nAfter first working for the Havas advertising agency, Mentzelopoulos moved into the family business heading the Primistères holding company which controlled her father's Félix Potin retail grocery chain. In 1977, her father decided to move into the wine sector and purchased the Château Margaux estate (its earliest history is dated to the 16th century) for 72 million francs ($16 million). On his death in 1980, his widow Laura and daughter Corinne Mentzelopoulos inherited the estate and proceeded to make substantial improvements to the winery. Corinne said of this, \"At first we continued my father's work out of pride. We simply didn't have the right to let it fail.\" In 1990, the Agnelli group became the principal shareholder but in 2003, she gained ownership after buying up the Agnelli shares.\nInterviewed by Rose Hoare in 2012, she emphasized how she credited her father with her success: \"I think he was a genius... His major coup [was] Château Margaux: it had been on sale for two years and he was the only one who realized what that name held.\"\n\nAt the time the Mentzelopoulos family bought Château Margaux, the vineyard's reputation had been tarnished by middling vintages, a scandal over labels, and low wine prices. To tackle these issues, Corinne initially worked with general manager Philippe Barré, and consultant oenologist Professor Emile Peynaud in managing the vineyard.\nHer 1983 appointment of Paul Pontallier as the replacement manager to Barré turned out to be an inspired choice. Under his leadership, a new cellar was added, drainage was improved and a second underground cellar was created to accommodate second-year barrels. Paul Pontallier died in 2016. The British architect Norman Foster has been commissioned to redesign the cellars as well as to build a winemaking hall and a library of vintages, to be completed by 2015.\n\nMentzelopoulos runs the business from an office in Paris. Her business acumen can be judged by her increasing fortune. In 2012, she was deemed to be worth 600 million euro, up from some 300 million in 2004. Mentzelopoulos received the distinction of Officer of the Legion of Honor in 2012.\n\nShe is married to Hubert Leven. The youngest of her three daughters, Alexandra Petit-Mentzelopoulos, joined Château Margaux in the autumn of 2012, and is expected to take over the business one day. Mentzelopoulos' mother, Veronica, remarried Alexis Mersentes.\n\nFor the Coffeeland Landmine Victims Trust, a Polus Center Project, in Nicaragua, Honduras, Columbia, Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, a \"Fine Wine Dinner\" featuring the wines of Château Margaux was organized in which Mentzelopoulos of Château Margaux was the featured guest. Her donation for the cause was the Château Margaux wines from her own cellar in Bordeaux; the wines included Pavillon Blanc 2005, Pavillon Rouge 1995, Château Margaux 1999, Château Margaux 1996, Château Margaux 1989 plus Château d’Yquem 1999 and Dom Pérignon Champagne 1999. The dinner raised $100,000 for the trust.\n"}
{"id": "19626265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19626265", "title": "Court security officer (England and Wales)", "text": "Court security officer (England and Wales)\n\nA court security officer is, in England and Wales, a person employed by either the Lord Chancellor or a private company as a \"court officer\" and designated by the Lord Chancellor under section 51 (1) of the Courts Act 2003.\nCourt security officers may search people as they enter the court and remove them if they refuse to be searched. They can also remove people in order to enable court business to be carried on without interference or delay, maintain order and secure the safety of any person in the court building. Reasonable force may be used in exercise of these powers. \nOfficers may ask a person to surrender (and failing that seize) property if they believe it may jeopardise the maintenance of order in the court, put the safety of any person in the court building at risk, or may be evidence of, or in relation to, an offence. Property that was taken for one of the first two reasons must be returned as the person leaves the court; property seized because it may be evidence of, or in relation to, an offence may be kept for up to 24 hours to enable a police constable to deal with it. Court security officers may only exercise their powers when they are \"readily identifiable\", and assaulting or obstructing a court security officer in execution of his duties is an offence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19485789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19485789", "title": "Daedalus Howell", "text": "Daedalus Howell\n\nDaedalus Howell (born July 19, 1972 in Sonoma County, California), is an American writer, journalist, filmmaker, actor and conceptual artist who lives and works in Petaluma, California. He wrote the novel \"Quantum Deadline\" and the essay collection \"I Heart Sonoma: How to Live and Drink in Wine Country\". He hosts the podcast \"Daedalus Howell: Night School of the Mind\" and The Morning Show on KSVY 91.3 FM, Sonoma. He is writer-director of the feature film \"Pill Head.\" \n\nHowell is author of the novel \"Quantum Deadline,\" part one of the \"Lumaville Labyrinth\" series.\n\nHe also wrote the novel \"The Late Projectionist\" and is the writer-director of dozens of short films. As a journalist, he has written for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", the \"North Bay Bohemian\", the \"Petaluma Argus-Courier\", \"Los Angeles Downtown News\", \"FineLife Sonoma Magazine\" (for which he was editor), \"Sonoma Valley Sun,\" the Rivertown Report. As a broadcast personality, Howell has hosted shows on KWMR (West Marin Coastal Radio) and KSVY (Sonoma, CA) and guest hosts The Drive on KSRO in Sonoma County. He wrote a weekly column for the \"Sonoma Index-Tribune\". He has also penned a media column for the North Bay Bohemian and was credited as the \"wine country editor\" of Tasting Panel Magazine.\n\nWith collaborator Jerry Rapp, Howell wrote and directed the R&H Educational Film Series, a four-part parody of American \"social guidance films\" of the 1950s. The series has played on Showtime and Canal+. A portion of the series was showcased on IFC. Howell has also directed music videos for RCA-signed Longwave and New York City-based Falcon. Howell also co-produced the feature film \"The Aviary\" and ran publicity for Deep Dark Canyon for filmmakers Silver Tree and Abe Levy.\n\nHe is the star of \"Replica Redux,\" the re-released version of cult film \"Replica,\" which was directed by Raymond Scott Daigle and released on YouTube in 2012. A night-in-the-life of several copy store employees, Howell plays a beleaguered nightshift manager whose life collapses in the course of several hours. The entire film was shot after hours in a FedEx Kinkos without corporate knowledge.\n\nHowell wears a sartorial \"uniform\" of a dark blazer, jeans and Beatle boots, which he referred to as his \"action figure outfit\" in Shea Magazine.\n\nIn 2007, Howell placed first in the Association of Alternative Newsweeklies’ national “Altweekly Awards” for Food Writing/Criticism (circ. 60,000 or less) for his wine column in the \"North Bay Bohemian\".\n\nThe California Tourism Industry Association (CalTIA) awarded Howell first place for his Inside Sonoma series in October, 2008.\n\nIn 2011, Howell also won first place in the National Newspaper Association Better Newspaper Contest for \"Best Humorous Column\" for his contributions to the Sonoma Index-Tribune.\"\n\nIn 2012, Howell and collaborator Raymond Scott Daigle won a Gold Adrian Award from Hospitality Sales and Marketing Association International (HSMAI) for achievements in marketing and public relations on behalf of their client the Sonoma County Tourism Bureau.\n\nIn 2017, host Daedalus Howell and producer Takeshi Lewis' The Morning Show, KSVY 91.3 FM, was voted \"Best Local Radio Show\" in the Sonoma Valley Sun 2017 Readers Poll.\n\nAmong other exploits, Howell and Rapp are known for squatting on the Warner Bros. studio back lot, which became the inspiration for their proposed TV series \"Back Lot.\" Negotiations with Fremantle Media and the Sundance Channel stalled in 2005 and the project was eventually shelved, though several short stories by Howell and a short film produced by Howell, Rapp and then-producer Ross Martin still exist. The series was pitched as \"Two guys sneak off a tourist tram onto a Hollywood back lot, live in the sets, eat craft service and wear wardrobe while trying to get a three picture deal.\" It is highly unlikely that Howell and Rapp could have evaded lot security for any meaningful duration and their hijinks were thought to be a hoax. Howell's account of the \"Back Lot\" odyssey was published by Metroactive as \"[L.A. Confidential] \" in the August 24–30, 2005 issue of the North Bay Bohemian. The article was subtitled \"In which our writer mines Milton, fends off Fabio, suffers attachment issues and waits to get back on the lot.\"\n\nHowell's name itself has sparked controversy, not least of which for its pronunciation, \"DAY-de-lus.\" Howell spells \"Daedalus\" with the \"ae\" diphthong which would properly be pronounced \"Deedalus.\" Howell's recorded birth name was \"Daedalus Christopher Ferguson,\" though he changed his surname to \"Howell\" at 18, which was his father's original last name prior to adoption by his stepfather. Throughout his formative years, Howell used the name \"Chris Ferguson\" and did not begin using \"Daedalus Howell\" in earnest until his early 20s when he became a professional writer.\n\nHowell is sometimes connected to Albert Summers Howell, co-founder of Bell & Howell Co. (maker of motion picture cameras in the pioneering days of cinema), though he refuses to comment on his familial association despite being linked in various genealogies.\n\nWith poets Trane DeVore and Jonathan Legare, Howell published the literary quarterly \"Deluge Six\". Howell would later create Scam Magazine, a satire tabloid published intermittently between 1993 and 1995. The publishing interest also released author Geoffrey B. Cain's novel \"The Wards of St. Dymphna.\" Howell later liquidated the publishing company's assets (including a variety of related Internet domain names) to subsidize his first forays into independent film.\n\nIn 2009, Howell formed DHowell Media Group, a branded entertainment company which has produced content for national brands including Annie's Homegrown, Morton's Steakhouse and Sutter Home Winery as well as numerous music videos. In October 2010, Howell changed the name of the company to FMRL, an acronym for \"Future Media Research Lab\" and a pun on \"ephemeral.\" In 2011, FMRL contracted with Wikia to produce food and beverage-themed content in addition to renewing its relationship with the Sonoma County Tourism Bureau to produce Howell's \"lifestyle ambassador\" video series. It later became a publishing collective.\n\nHowell left Petaluma High School in 1988 via the California High School Proficiency Exam following a suspension from performing a staged adaptation of Dr. Strangelove that involved an obscene act with a rubber chicken (he would have graduated as part of the class of 1990). He later studied creative writing at San Francisco State University.\n\n\n\nHowell also hosted and directed the documentary \"Copia: The American Center for Food, Wine and the Arts,\" for WineTV, which never aired due to the closure of Copia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15297018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15297018", "title": "Doeg people", "text": "Doeg people\n\nThe Doeg (also called Dogue, Taux, Tauxenent) were a Native American people who lived in Virginia. They spoke an Algonquian language and may have been a branch of the Nanticoke tribe, historically based on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. The Nanticoke considered the Algonquian Lenape as \"grandfathers\". The Doeg are known for a raid in July 1675 that contributed to colonists' uprising in Bacon's Rebellion.\n\nThe Doeg (or Dogue) tribe of Virginia were part of the coastal Algonquian language family. They probably spoke Piscataway or a dialect similar to Nanticoke.\n\nAccording to one account, the Doeg had been based in what is now King George County, but about 50 years before the founding of Jamestown (ca. 1557), they split into three sections, with groups going to Caroline County and Prince William County, and one remaining in King George.\n\nWhen Captain John Smith visited the upper Potomac River in 1608, he noted that the \"Taux\" lived there above Aquia Creek, with their capital \"Tauxenent\" located on \"Doggs Island\" (also known as \"Miompse\" or \"May-Umps\", now Mason Neck, Virginia.) They gathered fish and also grew corn. Other hamlets were at \"Pamacocack\" (later anglicized to \"Quantico\"), along Quantico Creek; \"Yosococomico\" (now Powell's Creek); and \"Niopsco\" (Neabsco Creek). Associated with them were other nearby Algonquian peoples — the Moyauns (Piscataway) on the Maryland side, and the Nacotchtank (Anacostan) in what is now the Washington, DC area. Smith's map also shows a settlement called \"Tauxsnitania\", thought to be near present-day Waterloo in Fauquier County, within the territory of the Siouan-speaking Manahoac tribe.\n\nJohn Lederer, who visited the Piedmont region of Virginia in 1670, wrote that the entire area had been \n\n\"formerly possessed by the Tacci, alias Dogi, but... the Indians now seated here, are distinguished into the several [Siouan] nations of Mahoc, Nuntaneuck alias Nuntaly, Nahyssan, Sapon, Managog, Mangoack, Akernatatzy and Monakin etc.\" Further, \"The Indians now seated in these parts [the Siouans] are none of those whom the English removed from Virginia [the Doeg], but a people driven by the enemy [Seneca?] from the northwest, and invited to sit down here by an oracle above four hundred years since, as they pretend for the ancient inhabitants of Virginia were far more rude and barbarous, feeding only upon raw flesh and fish, until they taught them to plant corn...\"\n\nIn the 1650s, as English colonists began to settle the Northern Neck frontier, then known as \"Chicacoan\" (Secocowon), some Doeg, Patawomeck and Rappahannock began moving into the region as well. They joined local tribes in disputing the settlers' claims to land and resources. In July 1666, the colonists declared war on them. By 1669, colonists had patented the land on the west of the Potomac as far north as My Lord's Island. By 1670, they had driven most of the Doeg out of the Virginia colony and into Maryland—apart from those living beside the Nanzatico/Portobago in Caroline County, Virginia.\n\nThe English continued to harass the Doeg on the Northern Neck. In July 1675, a Doeg raiding party crossed the Potomac and stole hogs from Thomas Mathew, in retaliation for his not paying them for trade goods. Mathew and other colonists pursued them to Maryland and killed a group of Doeg, as well as innocent Susquehannock. A Doeg war party retaliated by killing Mathew's son and two servants on his plantation.\n\nA Virginian militia led by Nathaniel Bacon entered Maryland, attacked the Doeg and besieged the Susquehannock. This precipitated the general reaction against natives by the Virginia Colony that resulted in \"Bacon's Rebellion\". Following this conflict, the Doeg seem to have become allied with the Nanzatico tribe, who paid for the release of some Doeg jailed for killing livestock in early 1692. The Doeg maintained a presence near Nanzatico at \"Doguetown\" (around Milford in Caroline County) as late as 1720.\n\nA fringe theory has connected the Doeg to an apocryphal 12th century Welsh prince named Madoc, who, according to folklore, visited North America. The theory followed claims during the late 17th century that people calling themselves \"Doeg\", living in the Province of North-Carolina, understood the Welsh language.\n\nA clergyman of Welsh origins, the Reverend Morgan Jones, told Thomas Lloyd, lieutenant-governor of the Province of Pennsylvania that he had been captured in 1669, by members of a tribe that called themselves \"Doeg\". Jones said that his life had been spared by his captors only after their chief heard Jones speaking Welsh, a language that the chief understood. Jones reportedly claimed that he had stayed with the Doeg for months and preached to them in Welsh. Jones later returned to the English colonies and, much later, in 1686 wrote an account of his adventures. However, Welsh historian Gwyn A. Williams commented (in 1979) that the anecdote was \"a complete farrago and may have been intended as a hoax\". Apart from the improbability of their connection with Madoc (if he existed), the \"Doeg\" encountered by Jones were described as a sub-group of Tuscarora – a people with little if any connection to the Doeg proper.\n\nDogue, Virginia is named in honor of this tribe.\n"}
{"id": "3901498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3901498", "title": "Duane Graveline", "text": "Duane Graveline\n\nDuane Edgar Graveline (March 2, 1931 – September 5, 2016) was an American physician and NASA astronaut. He was one of the six scientists selected in 1965, in NASA's fourth group of astronauts, for the Apollo program. He was best known for being immersed in water for seven days as part of his zero gravity deconditioning research while working as a United States Air Force (USAF) research scientist.\n\nGraveline was born on March 2, 1931, in Newport, Vermont. He retired from family practice after twenty-three years and was a writer of medical and science fiction. His hobbies included medical consulting in zero gravity deconditioning and galactic cosmic radiation and personal health maintenance. Graveline died at the age of 85 on September 5, 2016. Graveline's ashes were interred at Arlington National Cemetery on May 3, 2017 with full military honors.\nThe headstone was added in the summer of 2017.\n\nGraveline graduated from Newport High School in 1948. He received his Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Vermont in June 1951 and his Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Vermont College of Medicine in June 1955. Following his internship at Walter Reed, he specialized in aerospace medicine, receiving his Masters in Public Health degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1958.\n\nGraveline entered the United States Air Force Medical Service after graduation from medical college. Following internship he attended the primary course in Aviation Medicine, Class 56C, at Randolph Air Force Base and was assigned to Kelly Air Force Base as Chief of the Aviation Medicine Service.\n\nGraveline was granted the aeronautical rating of flight surgeon in February 1957. From September 1957 to June 1958, he attended Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, where he received his master's degree in Public Health.\n\nHe then attended the Aerospace Medical residency at the Air Force School of Aerospace Medicine, completing his residency training in July 1960 at Brooks Air Force Base and receiving his specialty certification by the American Board in Preventative Medicine. At that time he was assigned to the Aerospace Medical Research Laboratory as research scientist with special interest in prolonged weightlessness deconditioning and countermeasures. In July 1962, he returned to Brooks Air Force Base where he continued his research, served as intelligence analyst for Soviet bioastronautics and was active as a NASA flight controller for the Mercury and Gemini missions.\n\nGraveline authored ten professional publications and reports on biological deconditioning and weightlessness countermeasures. His research involved bed rest and water immersion to study deconditioning. While in the USAF he did the original research on both the extremity tourniquet and the prototype lower body negative pressure device for use in prolonged zero gravity missions. NASA's operational lower body negative pressure device has seen use in the Soviet MIR, as well as on the shuttle and station research. His 2004 research on space medicine was studying the effect of galactic \"heavies\" in the brains of mice, using iron ions and NASA's linear accelerator at Brookhaven, NY.\n\nIn June 1965, Graveline was selected with NASA's first group of scientist astronauts and assigned to Williams Air Force Base for jet pilot training. He resigned on August 18, 1965, prior to being assigned to a mission. Although this was ascribed to \"personal reasons,\" it was later disclosed in Deke Slayton's memoir that Graveline resigned due to his impending divorce. According to Slayton, \"The program didn't need a scandal. A messy divorce meant a quick ticket back to wherever you came from.\" His wife Carol had stated in the court papers that her husband had \"violent and ungovernable outbursts of temper.\" Upon his resignation Graveline stayed with NASA for three months as a doctor in Houston before returning to civilian life. Graveline practiced medicine as a family doctor in Burlington, Vermont, during which time he also served as a flight surgeon for the Vermont Army National Guard. Upon his retirement at age sixty, Graveline became a writer of medical and science fiction thrillers with 15 novels to his credit. Graveline married a total of six times.\n\nFollowing his experience with cholesterol drug side effects, Graveline became a critic of the use of statins to treat high cholesterol levels. While on Lipitor, Graveline developed transient global amnesia and could not recognize his family. He slowly recovered after stopping this medication. NASA physicians then prescribed half the dose, but the amnesia returned.\n\nGraveline wrote four books in support of his statin drug research: \"Lipitor, Thief of Memory\" (2006), \"Statin Drugs Side Effects\" (2006) \"The Statin Damage Crisis\" (2010) and his final book \"The Dark Side of Statins\" (2017). His criticisms include the important role of cholesterol in the metabolic pathways in the brain and its proper functioning, including mediating the formation of new synapses.\n\nHe referred to clinical trials and studies whose data showed that statins have negligible impact on heart disease in primary patients (i.e., those who have not been diagnosed with cardiovascular disease) yet increase their mortality overall from all causes.\n\nHe had no associations with pharmaceutical companies, received no grants or funding from them or other state bodies.\n<br>\n\nHe has corresponded/collaborated with Scottish doctor Malcolm Kendrick who, in his book \"The Great Cholesterol Con,\" quotes data from trials and the World Health Organization (WHO) data to show that statins do not increase life expectancy overall, do not prevent heart disease in patients without cardiovascular symptoms. The book states that widely varying levels of cholesterol are inversely correlated with deaths from heart disease. Higher levels are also inversely correlated with cancer mortality. That is, within a reasonable range, higher total cholesterol is associated with lower cancer mortality.\n\nGraveline was a contributor to the book \"NASA's Scientist-Astronauts\" by David Shayler and Colin Burgess.\n\n\"This article incorporates text from http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/Bios/htmlbios/graveline-de.html, which is a webpage by NASA. NASA policy states that \"NASA material is not protected by copyright unless noted.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "2413356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2413356", "title": "Ehren McGhehey", "text": "Ehren McGhehey\n\nEhren Kenneth McGhehey ( ; born November 29, 1976) is an American daredevil and actor. He is best known as one of the stars of the MTV reality stunt show \"Jackass\".\n\nAfter McGhehey retired from snowboarding due to injury, he got a job at a skate shop in Portland. There he filmed some of his ideas and stunts on a small scale; he was soon spotted by \"Jackass\" director Jeff Tremaine, who put him on the \"Jackass\" team. \n\nMcGhehey later appeared in all five \"Jackass\" films. Ehren's motto when performing stunts on \"Jackass\" is \"Safety First.\" McGhehey is often referred to by his nickname \"Danger Ehren\" by fellow \"Jackass\" cast and crew, not least due to his tendency to injure himself/lose teeth in the pursuit of stunts. He's the butt of many jokes by the \"Jackass\" crew, most notably and one of Johnny Knoxville's favorite, the infamous \"Terror Taxi\" in \"Jackass Number Two\". In a stunt where Ehren played a terrorist passenger in a taxicab where he unknowingly wore a \"pube beard\" made up from the shaved pubic hair of his co-stars.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57169834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57169834", "title": "Flag of the President of Azerbaijan", "text": "Flag of the President of Azerbaijan\n\nThe Presidential Standard (Flag) of the Republic of Azerbaijan () is the official flag of the President of Azerbaijan.\n\nThe Flag of the President of Azerbaijan was confirmed by the decree №828 of the President of Azerbaijan on “The Standard (flag) of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan” dated September 15, 2008. The decree came into force on the same day of its issuance.\n\nAccording to the Decree, the Standard of the President of Azerbaijan is the official symbol of the President of Azerbaijan. The original version of the Presidential Standard is kept in the office of the President at the Presidential Palace. The duplicates of Presidential Flag can be placed, hung or raised on the buildings of Presidential Palace and Presidential residences; also can be placed in the halls or rooms of Presidential Palace or Presidential residences if any official event is intended to be conducted in the presence of the President; on other premises when the President of Azerbaijan is visiting; in the halls or on the building, where official or other types of events are being held with the participation of the President of Azerbaijan; and on the vehicles of the President.\n\nPresidential flag is also used during inaugural ceremony. It is brought onto the stage by the soldiers of the Armed Forces under the accompaniment of the ceremonial march during inauguration ceremony.\n\nThe Presidential Flag is like a square version of the tricolor Azerbaijani flag with the Coat of Arm of Azerbaijan on both sides of red stripe instead of white crescent and eight-pointed star. The Presidential Flag is framed with golden fringes.\n\nThere is silver cord attached to the pole of the Presidential Flag illustrating the full name of the President of Azerbaijan and the date of his term of office. The pole of the flag is covered with a metal hood in crescent and 8 point star shape.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8066202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8066202", "title": "Frederick Murray Blois", "text": "Frederick Murray Blois\n\nFrederick Murray Blois (March 30, 1893 – August 3, 1984) was a Canadian politician.\n\nBorn in Gore District, Nova Scotia, he was a member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly for eight years starting in 1937 and was Conservative Party leader and Leader of the Opposition from 1941 until the 1945 provincial election wiped out the party.\n\nBlois ran unsuccessfully for the House of Commons of Canada as the Progressive Conservative candidate in the riding of Colchester—Hants in the 1957 federal election. He lost by 389 votes to the Liberal candidate. In 1960, he was summoned to the Senate of Canada representing the senatorial division of Colchester-Hants, Nova Scotia. He resigned in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "11478079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11478079", "title": "Hillar Aarelaid", "text": "Hillar Aarelaid\n\nHillar Aarelaid (born December 31, 1967) is the founder and first CEO for Estonia's Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-EE). He was the Director General of the Estonian Data Protection Inspectorate from 1999 to 2003.\n\nAarelaid was one of the central officials in charge of responding to the computer attacks on Estonia after the Bronze Soldier of Tallinn controversy. American expert Bill Woodcock and other observers praised Aarelaid's calm professionalism displayed during the attacks.\n"}
{"id": "2161075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161075", "title": "Iacob Heraclid", "text": "Iacob Heraclid\n\nIacob Heraclid (or Eraclid; ; 1527 – November 5, 1563), born Basilicò and also known as Iacobus Heraclides, Heraclid Despotul, or Despot Vodă (\"Despot the Voivode\"), was a Greek Maltese soldier, adventurer and intellectual, who reigned as Prince of Moldavia from November 1561 to November 1563. He is remembered as a pioneer of the Protestant faith in Eastern Europe, a champion of Renaissance humanism, and a founder of academic life in Moldavia. Active within the Greek diaspora in several countries, he was a student of Hermodorus Lestarchus, and worked as a scribe alongside his cousin, Iakobos Diassorinos. Heraclid forged his genealogy several times, claiming to be a member of the Branković dynasty; he was more reliably related to the Byzantine nobility in Rhodes, and claimed the titular lordship of Samos. In the late 1540s and early '50s, he studied medicine at the University of Montpellier, and married a local. A duellist and alleged infanticide, Heraclid fled over the border with the Holy Roman Empire before he could be executed for murder. He was slowly won over by the Reformation, serving the Protestant princes of the Upper Saxon Circle.\n\nDuring his travels in the Habsburg Netherlands, Heraclid was admitted to the court of Emperor Charles V, serving under him in the Last Italian War. He was made a Count Palatine and became a recognized authority on military matters, authoring several books in New Latin. Returning to civilian life, he focused his attention on missionary activity, and networked with the leading Lutherans in Wittenberg, though he began sympathizing more with Calvinism. With recommendations from Philip Melanchthon, he traveled through Northern Europe and had a spell teaching mathematics at the University of Rostock. He eventually reached Poland and Lithuania by way of Prussia, focusing on a project to unite the local Evangelical and Calvinist Churches. His own Calvinism wavered at the court of Mikołaj \"the Red\" Radziwiłł: Heraclid turned to Radical Reformation, and adopted a Unitarian position, without abjuring publicly.\n\nNetworking between the Habsburg Monarchy and Polish nobility, \"Despot\" was able to credibly claim the throne of Moldavia. Involved in an unsuccessful plot to assassinate the titular Prince, Alexandru Lăpușneanu, he returned with a mercenary army and took Suceava. Upon gaining control of the country, he issued an edict of toleration, which favored the brief ascendancy of Moldavian Protestants. Heraclid never explicitly stated his own affiliation, appeasing the dominant Moldavian Orthodox Church and performing the duties of an Orthodox monarch. He also formulated a political program which announced Romanian nationalism, promising to conquer Wallachia and Transylvania; he saw himself as a vassal of the Holy Roman Empire, and made several attempts to capture parts of the Eastern Hungarian Kingdom in conjunction with the Habsburgs. Proclaiming himself a \"King\" or \"Palatine\" rather than Prince, he invested efforts in a dynastic union with Wallachia, which he then briefly invaded. Despot's long-term goal was to obtain independence from the Ottoman Empire following a European-led \"crusade\".\n\nSeveral religious controversies contributed to social unrest in Moldavia. Despot's prohibition of divorce, his lapses into Protestant iconoclasm and his fiscal policies all served to alienate the public; this conflict was aggravated by his plan to marry a Calvinist, which opened the prospect of a Protestant dynasty. Weakened by Despot's disputes with Olbracht Łaski and the Zaporozhian Cossacks, the regime was brought down by the pretender Ștefan Tomșa. After a months-long siege in Suceava, Despot surrendered and was immediately killed, probably by Tomșa's own hand. His Reformation project only survived through the small learning center he had set up at Cotnari, being dismantled in the 1580s. Despot's reign was cursed by the early Moldavian historians, but his overall contribution to Moldavia's Westernization, particularly cultural, is viewed by later scholars as meritorious. Despot reemerged as a favorite subject in modern Romanian literature, inspiring an 1879 drama by Vasile Alecsandri, and also appears in Maltese literature.\n\nIt is certain that the future Prince of Moldavia was an ethnic Greek, but his exact origin is unclear. Despot was a noted forger, described by Romanian scholar Andrei Pippidi as an \"ingenious charlatan\" and \"professional impostor\". Historian Nicolae Iorga also mentions that Despot, an \"unusual figure\", claimed \"rights to all princely thrones in existence.\" In his quest for recognition, he provided several conflicting accounts on his origins and early life, while also inventing a succession of conflicting genealogies. In separate and conflicting notices, he suggested that his place of birth was Rhodes or Samos, in the Ottoman Eyalet of the Archipelago; elsewhere, he also claimed Genoese Chios or Venetian Crete as his homeland. At least one witness heard him say that he was originally from the Kingdom of Sicily.\n\nHis family tree, published by Heraclid himself at Corona in 1558, claimed that he descended from Polycrates the Samian and the Branković dynasty, rulers of the Serbian Despotate. In 1562, the French diplomat Antoine de Petronel recorded Heraclid as a claimant \"Despot of Serbia\". Later in life, Heraclid more explicitly pretended that he was a nephew of Moldavia's Stephen the Great, while adding that he descended from the House of Lusignan. Pippidi identifies some reliable parts in Despot's genealogy, referring to his kinship with the Byzantine nobility of Rhodes and with potentates from the Duchy of Naxos—possibly including Nicholas III dalle Carceri, mistakenly identified by Despot as \"Alexios\".\n\nOverall, Heraclid appears to have had a strong connection with Hospitaller Malta, with Maltese sources generally referring to him as \"Basilicus Melitensis\" or \"Basilico Maltese\" (\"Basilicus the Maltese\"). Giovanni Francesco Abela and Giuseppe Buonfiglio record his name under the Italian version, \"Basilicò\"; Pippidi reconstructs this as \"Jacob Basilicos\". Another New Latin source names him as \"Iacobus Vasilico di Marcheto\". One account in the Maltese series suggests that Heraclid was born at Birkirkara, and, according to Pippidi, this should be regarded as certain. The Maltese origin is nuanced by Buonfiglio: he recounts that Basilicò was a Maltese Greek who claimed Rhodian descent. Based on this clue, Pippidi proposes that the Heraclides family had escaped to Malta during the taking of Rhodes, with the future Despot Vodă being born in exile in 1527. The future Prince's symbolic affiliation with Rhodes is also verified by other details: in 1548, he presented himself as belonging to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Rhodes. Pippidi argues that he only came to depict himself as owner of Samos because, \"unlike Rhodes or Malta, it was available, having been deserted by its inhabitants\".\n\nOne note from Despot's papers may indicate that he was the great-grandson of Caloiani Vasilico, who served the Byzantine Empire as a diplomat, shortly before the Fall of Constantinople, while also involving himself in trade with Moldavia. The latter tradition was perhaps continued by Despot's father, John Heraclides. Scholar Aleksander Kraushar once hypothesized that Despot was not in fact a son of John, but rather of shipowner Basilikos, who had helped John escape; in this reading, the Heraclides clan adopted Iacob upon Basilikos' death. According to historian Marie Kesterska Sergescu, \"Kraushar's information stands to be corrected\" by Iorga's later discoveries. Iacob himself circulated two accounts of John's life and death, claiming that he had been decapitated by the Ottomans, or alternatively by Moldavia's Prince Ștefăniță. The latter variant is viewed as more plausible by Pippidi, who notes that Despot named Hârlău as his father's place of death, and intended to consecrate a church on that spot.\n\nAccording to some readings of sources, John had another son, Demetrios, who would later play a role in Despot's Moldavian career. Other authors describe the same Demetrios as an unrelated Serb or Greek. An enemy of Despot, Ferenc Forgách, counted two brothers, one of whom was a burglar; the other lived in Venetian Cyprus. Despot's family is known to have included a Greek scribe, Iakobos Diassorinos, who was Heraclid's cousin and political partner; an uncle, Constantine, had fallen prisoner to the Ottomans during the siege of Coron.\n\nA passing mention by poet-chronicler Christian Schesaeus suggests that Despot's first language of instruction was \"Argolic\" Greek, and that his earliest travels took him to Italy. In adulthood, he could speak as many as six languages, which may or may not have included \"Vlach\". Several accounts of the period suggest that he was educated in Chios by Hermodorus Lestarchus, who introduced him to Renaissance humanism. In his record of oral history, the 18th-century author Ion Neculce alleges that Heraclid became a servant of the Brankovićes, with whom he \"was not relatives\". He claims that Despot passed himself as Jovan Branković's nephew when it could obtain him a share of the family's inheritance, and also alleges that he stole and forged Branković's personal papers. This story would place young Heraclid in the Republic of Venice or the Papal States. Antonio Maria Graziani, a diplomat of the Holy See, additionally argues that Heraclid had spent time as a copyist in the Vatican Library, though he may be confusing him with Diassorinos. Iorga draws a slightly different conclusion: noting that both Despot and Diassorinos were scribes and calligraphers, he argues that they only worked for the Bibliotheca Regia in Vienna.\n\nIorga proposes that Heraclid also spent some of his formative years in Habsburg Spain. According to scholar Eugen Denize, the hypothesis is unverified, but plausible—given Despot's familiarity with Spanish politics. He was later spotted in the Kingdom of France, meeting and befriending Justus Jonas, who probably introduced him to Reformation ideology. In 1548, he enlisted at the University of Montpellier, where he trained as a physician. A university colleague, Carolus Clusius, left notes regarding his encounters with Despot, whom he names as \"Jacques Marchetti\". Clusius depicts Despot as a philanderer and duelist, who married Gilette d'André, widow of a former rival. He accuses the future Prince of infanticide: he had arranged for a wardrobe to fall on his adoptive child.\n\n\"Marchetti\" was forced to abscond from Languedoc and France, without completing his studies. Clusius implies that this was because of his criminal lifestyle, while Felix Plater, also a student at Montpellier, suggests that Despot had killed a canon for mocking Gilette. Platter also recalls that Heraclid was tried \"in absentia\", sentenced to death by crushing, and executed in effigy on September 28, 1554. There is no explicit mention of whether or not Heraclid was involved with the Huguenots. However, this religious component may explain why Heraclid hid in the Margraviate of Baden, sheltered there by the Protestant Philibert. From Baden, Heraclid traveled to the Upper Saxon Circle of the Holy Roman Empire, in areas dominated by Lutheran \"Landeskirchen\". He spent some ten months with the Counts of Mansfeld, meeting Günther the Rich and Philip Melanchthon.\n\nHistorians debate as to whether or not Heraclid joined Günther on his travel to the Kingdom of England, but it is certain that he visited the Habsburg Netherlands. In 1553, at Brussels, Emperor Charles V recognized him as a military expert and took him into his own retinue. In the campaigns of 1554–1555, Heraclid saw action with the \"Reichsarmatur\" in the County of Flanders and at Thérouanne. He also made a decisive appearance in the battle of Renty. According to chronicler Jean-François Le Petit, \"Baſilic Marchet, Greek Gentleman & Captain\" contributed to the counterattack which forced Henry II to withdraw his army.\n\nHis competence was again recognized by Charles. On October 22, 1555, Heraclid was received into the lesser German nobility as a Count Palatine, with hereditary rights over Samos and Paros. Thereafter styling himself \"Despot of Samos and Marquess of Paros\", he was also entitled to a pension and military retinue at the emperor's expense. His participation in the siege of Thérouanne inspired him to write a book in Latin (\"De Marini quod Terovanum vocant atque Hedini expugnatione\"), which he dedicated to the Emperor's son and main successor, Philip II. This was later followed by \"Artis militaris liber primus\" (\"The First Book on Military Art\") and \"De arte militaria liber\" (\"Book on the Military Art\"). As argued by Denize, all three showed \"a very good awareness of Spanish military art\"; art historian Răzvan Theodorescu makes remarks on their \"Renaissance taste\". Medievalist Ștefan Olteanu praises Heraclid's military competence and \"genuine theoretical skills\", while writer Félix Le Sergeant de Monnecove deems Despot (or \"Jacques Basilic Marchet\") the writer \"too personal and partial to be viewed as a historian\". The first of these fascicles was published at Antwerp in 1555, and then the various parts were circulated as manuscripts which are \"similar, but not identical\".\n\nBy 1556, Heraclid was certainly a Protestant, settling in Wittenberg, capital of the eponymous duchy and the epicenter of Lutheranism. Here, he met Joachim Camerarius and Caspar Peucer, as well as, possibly, Pier Paolo Vergerio. As noted by historian Maria Crăciun, Heraclid was the first Greek man to contact German Lutherans, appearing to them as the \"symbol of a future rapprochement between the Greek church of the East and Central Europe's German Protestantism.\" According to Clusius, it was at Wittenberg that Despot first developed an interest for the affairs of Moldavia and Wallachia. In mid 1556, Despot switched his attention to the Kingdom of Poland and Duchy of Prussia, involving himself in the affairs of the Polish Evangelical Church. With letters of recommendation from Melanchthon (which described Despot as an \"honest and erudite man\"), he crossed into Mecklenburg-Schwerin, teaching mathematics at the University of Rostock. He may have also spent time in Lübeck and in the Danish realm, and in any case one of his letters from Melanchthon was addressed to Christian III. There are also clues that he visited the Kingdom of Sweden before finally sailing to Königsberg in Prussia, where he arrived in November 1556.\n\nAt the Prussian court, Heraclid met statesman John Christoporski (Krzysztoforski), who took an interest in his contributions as a tactician and ordered copies from his tracts. Duke Albert also gave Heraclid a warm welcome, but the latter only spent some two months in Prussia, leaving upon obtaining a recommendation to the court of Chancellor Mikołaj \"the Red\" Radziwiłł, in Lithuania. Despot also fought alongside Christoporski in the clashes of 1557, opposing Poland to the Livonian Order. From Vilnius, where he met other the major figures of Polish Protestantism—including Jan Łaski—, Heraclid traveled to Lesser Poland Province, and made occasional returns to Prussia. In late 1557, he was in Krakow, where he befriended scientist Georg Joachim Rheticus and a number of Protestant campaigners—including Hieronim Filipowski, Francesco Lismanini, Stanisław Lutomirski, and Marcin Zborowski; his project, masterminded by Łaski, was to reunite Evangelical and Calvinist Churches into a single Polish national church.\n\nBeyond his generic Protestantism, Heraclid's own church affiliation is an enduring subject of dispute. The general viewpoints, summarized by Maria Crăciun, are that he was either a Lutheran, a Calvinist, or an opportunist with no clear commitments; a number of authors also list him as one of the Unitarians or Polish Brethren, with some noting that he came to these positions only after going through more mainstream Protestantism. Crăciun believes that the most plausible account is provided by theologian Hans Petri. This theory describes young Heraclide as a moderate Lutheran, who embraced the dissident views of Andreas Osiander while in Prussia, and finally became a Calvinist in Krakow. Crăciun suggests that Radziwiłł's influence pushed Despot into a final, Nontrinitarian stage, with influences from both Unitarianism and the Polish Brethren. Graziani reported on views allegedly held by Despot, commenting on his anticlericalism, his derision of all forms of mass, refusal to believe in transubstantiation, and dedication to Bible study. Various Catholic polemicists identified Heraclid as a \"Jew\" or \"not a Christian\". As Crăciun notes, this allegation refers to his Unitarian views, which in the popular mind had been identified with Judaizing currents.\n\nDespot's plan to take over as Prince of Moldavia by usurping Alexandru Lăpușneanu was probably hatched at Vilnius: here, he met some Moldavian boyars who had escaped Lăpușneanu's political persecutions. By 1558, he had also become aware that his genealogical claims made him a nominal relative of Princess-consort Ruxandra. Historian Șerban Papacostea argues that Demetrios settled in Moldavia long before Despot, contributing to the spread of Reformation ideas in that country before being chased out by Lăpușneanu's violent repression. Iacob himself arrived in Moldavia in 1558, already an adversary of the regime, probably with support from Poland (especially from Polish Calvinists) and from a coalition of boyars who had supported Ștefan VI Rareș. As noted by Olteanu, his plan was rendered realistic by the anarchic decline of political customs in both Danubian Principalities under the Ottoman dominion. In the very last decades of the Romanian Middle Ages, there were 21 Moldavian Princes, with each averaging \"2 years of actual governance.\"\n\nEmperor Charles' other successor, Ferdinand I, was preoccupied with securing a Habsburg family realm in Central and Eastern Europe. His son Maximilian intended to stand in the Polish royal elections; he courted the Polish nobility, whose Protestant factions conditioned their support on Habsburg acceptance of Despot. This overlapped with Heraclid's own political goals, prompting him to assure the Habsburg court of his loyalty. It is unclear if Ferdinand actually backed Despot during the late 1550s. Historian Ionel Bejenaru, who argues that they did, notes that Lăpușneanu perceived Despot as an imperial agent, and that this pushed him to enter negotiations with Ferdinand. Iorga describes Despot as a \"useful diversion\", which Ferdinand prepared for its perfect moment to deploy.\n\nAccording to Iorga, Despot was a guest at Lăpușneanu's court, charming his hosts with his accounts of Western Europe, and with his own genealogical fabrications, while omitting his criminal past. Probably just before the attempted Moldavian–Habsburg rapprochement, Heraclid conspired to poison the Prince—a plot which also involved the Unitarian physician, Giorgio Biandrata, and the Orthodox Patriarch, Joasaph II. The attempt was a failure, and Despot was forced to flee Moldavia; according to Iorga, this escape occurred as early as 1558, though Crăciun calculates early 1560. Initially, he settled in the Eastern Hungarian Kingdom at the court of Dowager Queen Isabella Jagiellon. It was here that he first met a fellow adventurer, Olbracht Łaski.\n\nIn Iorga's account, this was also the time of Despot's stay in Corona, and subsequent move to Zips County, in the Habsburg parts of Hungary. He arrived at Kesmark, where he lodged in Łaski's castle. On March 3, 1560, Despot made his formal pledge to the Habsburgs. As read by historian Gheorghe Gonța, this oath marked a \"peak of Habsburg intrusions in Moldavia\", and also signaled Despot's \"complete openness toward the Occident\". By May, Lăpușneanu had alienated more of his boyars and probably even the Moldavian Orthodox Metropolis: a delegation representing both traveled to Kesmark, hoping to persuade Ferdinand and Maximilian to intervene, and also expressing support for Despot's candidacy.\n\nArranging a new expedition in Moldavia, planned for late 1560, Heraclid secured military backing from castellan Łaski, who had an understanding with Habsburg loyalists. Despot promised him ownership of Hotin Citadel, which guaranteed rights to the biggest octroi in all of Moldavia. After mortgaging his own estates, Łaski also lent 10,000 ducats to the pretender. Despot bought himself a garrison of Spanish arquebusiers. Led by a Captain Rossillio, these remained loyal to him to the last day of his rule. Some 500 Polish Protestants came in as volunteers. News of this reached Polish King Sigismund II Augustus, who, preferring to maintain Lăpușneanu as his subservient ally, ordered this \"mutiny\" quashed. Despot's force was attacked by troops from the Ruthenian Voivodeship, and arrested by Mikołaj Sieniawski before even reaching the Moldavian border. During this backlash, Despot dulled his enemies' vigilance by staging his own death.\n\nThe final expedition against Lăpușneanu was probably supported from outside the country by Demetrios. Despot acquired an explicit Polish endorsement, and was probably also viewed favorably by the Sublime Porte, having reportedly spent some 20,000 Goldgulden on bribes. Crucial backing for Heraclid's bid came from Joseph Nasi, the Ottoman court Jew and titular Duke of Naxos, who was on his way to becoming \"one of the most influential figures at the Porte\". Abela and Buonfiglio both claim that Heraclid was a vassal of the Knights Hospitaller, having been propped up by Grand Master Jean Parisot de Valette. Pippidi believes that this act of fealty is not unlikely, but also notes that Heraclid may have paid similar homage to other European monarchs. Historian Robert Mifsud Bonnici argues that Heraclid may have returned to Malta as a monarch, to meet with Valette. However, according to Pippidi, it is improbable that such an encounter ever took place.\n\nDespot now had a larger force—comprising many Zaporozhian Cossacks, on one of their first-ever appearances in Moldavian history. Łaski mobilized this multinational force with his Latin oratory, depicting them as a liberation force, and Lăpușneanu as a tyrant. On November 18 (Old Style: November 8), 1561, Despot's coalition defeated the Moldavian military forces at Verbia, obtaining full control over much of the country. In his biography of Heraclid, Johann Sommer noted that arquebus firepower won the day: \"most of [the Moldavians] had never before even seen those handheld bombards, and so they and their horses could catch sound of them without the greatest distress.\" Despot was also favored by an act of betrayal: the Moldavian \"Vornic\" Moțoc, with his entire cavalry force, switched sides during the clashes. A secondary fight opposed Hungarians in Despot's service to Lăpușneanu's contracted Janissaries. The latter barricaded themselves in the townhouses of Botoșani, but the Hungarians surprised them by leaping over fences, and decimated them.\n\nDespot and his men soon descended on the capital, Suceava, where Metropolitan Grigorie II de la Neamț and \"all the populace\" stepped out to greet him. Lăpușneanu escaped from battle and took refuge in Silistra Eyalet, at Kilya; the Ottoman garrison of that town had him deported to Istanbul. The final pursuit took Despot to Huși, where he defeated another portion of the loyalist army, and finally to Vaslui. On December 2, he issued his edict of toleration toward all branches of Christianity, inviting Protestants who were persecuted elsewhere to join him in Moldavia. Despot immediately canceled Lăpușneanu's program of forced conversions to Orthodoxy and restored Protestant churches to their owners, being celebrated as a protector by the Hungarian, Saxon, and Armenian communities of Moldavia. He personally appointed a bishop for the Saxon Lutheran Church, whose first task was to rebuild churches demolished by either Rareș or Lăpușneanu. Shortly after his takeover, Despot wrote Ferdinand to convince him never to back Lăpușneanu, exposing the latter as an indiscriminate murderer and Orthodox fanatic, and dwelling on his impalement of seven Protestant missionaries.\n\nIn other portions of the Vaslui edict, Despot hints at the origin of the Romanians, encouraging his boyars to live up to the Roman virtue of their ancestors. He reassured locals that he was fundamentally anti-Ottoman, promising them that he would restore Moldavian rule in the Budjak, also announcing that he intended to annex Wallachia and then \"Greece\"—described by some historians as a \"Dacian\" plan. According to Iorga, there was a more discreet note to this program: though his proclamations described the Danube as a frontier, Despot's \"grand apotheosis\" was to be a restoration of the Byzantine Empire, with himself as \"Emperor of all Eastern Christendom\".\n\nIn January–February 1562, the Prince became involved in the effort to absorb Eastern Hungary into Ferdinand's realm. He contributed to the deteriorating relations between the two camps by stating his own territorial claims in Transylvania, demanding the return of Ciceu and Cetatea de Baltă, and preparing a favorite of his to serve as Transylvania's puppet ruler. In the Habsburg parts of Hungary, Zsigmond Thorda described Despot as a most reliable ally who, it was hoped, would counteract and help discipline the Eastern Hungarians. The Moldavian troops, Thorda reported, were fully loyal to, and financially supported by, the Habsburgs; however, they could not be used against Eastern Hungary, for fear of angering Despot's Ottoman overlords. Diplomat Ferenc Zay was more enthusiastic about the project, arguing that Despot could incapacitate resistance by attacking in Partium while the Habsburgs took other regions. After confronting both sides of the argument, on February 15 Ferdinand appointed Ogier Ghiselin de Busbecq as his rapporteur on the Moldavian matter. On the Eastern Hungarian side, Gábor Majláth began gathering troops in preparation for Despot's expected intervention.\n\nSultan Suleiman the Magnificent finally recognized Despot as his vassal on April 24, with a ceremony outside Suceava. The affair was not without some tensions: \"Kapucu\" Ferhat, who presented Despot with his \"regnal banner\", received from him a bribe of some 15,000 ducats and 100 horses; however, Ferhat still complained to the Sultan that the ceremony had been held indoors, which went against customary law. As noted by Iorga, Despot was embarrassed by the ceremony, and in his correspondence pretended that the \"banner\" signified an Ottoman order of chivalry, rather than a label of submission. Before May 1562, Suleiman, as overlord of both Moldavia and Eastern Hungary, ordered Despot and John Sigismund Zápolya to settle their differences. The monarchs complied, with Despot concealing his Habsburg sympathies and addressing letters of friendship to Zápolya.\n\nHeraclid maintained his objectives and, as early as June 1562, sent letters to Székely Land, encouraging its secession and union with Moldavia; his mercenary friend, Anton Székely, was entrusted with the planning of a revolt. Chronicler Nicolae Costin claims that, once informed that Zápolya had been incapacitated by illness, Despot marched his 700-strong army toward the Transylvanian border; news of Zápolya's recovery arrested his advance, somewhere on the Trotuș River. He eventually backed out of his invasion plan, sending the boyar Orăș to negotiate a peace between Zápolya and the Székelys. However, he gave a free hand to another one of his mercenaries, Paul Székely, to act as a seemingly independent warlord of Székely Land; this scenario was prevented by Zápolya, who resumed control of the areas before autumn. Around that time, Despot began sending envoys, including his confidant Pierre Roussel, to the courts of Western Europe, requesting support for an anti-Ottoman crusade. He also defied the Crimean Khanate, reducing the Moldavian annual tribute to a gift consisting of two honey barrels, and made a public show of his contempt for Ottoman merchants.\n\nDespot had fathered an illegitimate son by \"a Greek woman\", or, according to other readings, had an infant daughter. He also wanted to have a more conventional line of succession. During the first half of 1562, he planned his marriage to Princess Dobra, sister of Peter the Younger, Prince of Wallachia. For this he approached Peter's mother, Doamna Chiajna. His envoys were Moțoc and Avram Banilovschi. These two arranged for the dynastic union to take place in August, and brought back a diamond ring as Peter and Chiajna's gift for Heraclid. Later, Wallachia's \"Vornic\" Radu Socol traveled to Suceava, bringing Despot two steeds, a \"kuka\" hat with precious stones, and 24,000 ducats. Eraclid intended to make his wedding a grand ceremony. His \"extravagant parvenu's idea\" involved sending out invitations to the leading royal houses of Europe. Among the projected guests were Philip II, Duke Albert, and Hungarian Archbishop Nicolaus Olahus.\n\nThe wedding was eventually called off, prompting a swift deterioration in relations between Wallachia and Moldavia. Historians disagree on the reasons for this breakdown in negotiations. Claudiu Neagoe believes that Chiajna as probably informed that Despot intended to depose Peter and bring his own alleged brother, Demetrios, on that throne. Cătălin Pungă notes that Demetrios was not supported by Heraclid; he argues that the Wallachians no longer saw Despot as a viable choice. Another project pursued by Despot was to establish a personal union between Moldavia and a restored Kingdom of Cyprus. Also in 1562, the Venetians captured and executed Diassorinos, who was instigating a Cypriote revolt and had asked for Maltese and Ottoman assistance—Despot probably intended to make Cyprus an Ottoman client state.\n\n\"Despot's mission\", Crăciun notes, \"was to execute, in one go, the Protestant policy of Wittenberg and of the Polish nobility, together with the Emperor's anti-Ottoman policy. [...] Despot was depicted as a determining factor for the spread of Protestantism in the east\". Already in December 1561, Despot had extended an invitation to Filipowski, Lismanini, and other Polish colleagues, urging them to visit Moldavia. Soon after, the regime introduced new laws and customs, including an effective ban on divorces. This policy was also reflected in the theology of a Protestant preacher, Jan Lusinski, who arrived in Moldavia as bishop of the local Calvinists; Lusinski and his German colleague, Johann Sommer, evolved from Calvinism or Lutheranism to a Unitarian approach, which they also imposed on their congregation.\n\nHeraclid made repeated attempts to establish Moldavia as an educational center of Eastern European Reformation, inviting Lestarchus, Jonas, Rheticus, and Peucer to come and teach there. Sommer was director of Despot's \"collegium\" (or \"academy\"), set up at Cotnari. This establishment was designed to train a generation of Protestant preachers, and possibly also the administrative elites. Demetrios also made his return to Moldavia, probably in January 1562, interrupting his wider mission to spread Protestantism in the Balkans. He set up base at Cotnari, where he taught Greek. As Crăciun notes, it remains a matter of scholarly debate whether Cotnari should be viewed as Moldavia's first institution of higher learning, a local replica of the Platonic Academy, or a mere school. As Sommer himself explained, Despot offered state scholarships to Moldavia's youth. Historians disagree on whether this meant that the regime was consciously drawing them away from Orthodoxy, or simply indifferent to their beliefs.\n\nThe princely court and government apparatus included \"Logothete\" Luca Stroici, who had probably embraced Lutheranism. However, various researchers agree that Despot never made an effort to mass-convert the Orthodox population. Overall, he allowed Reformation ideas to appear in the mainstream, giving Moldavians a chance to come into direct contact with them, and hoping that they would convert on their own. Polish reports and his own letters attest that he had pledged himself to make Moldavia Protestant, but also show that he never delivered on that promise. One point of the program which was consistently pursued by Despot was the repression of Moldavian Catholicism: his transfer of Catholic property into Lutheran hands was recorded by Giovanni Botero and Jan Dymitr Solikowski.\n\nDespot was still probably on friendly terms with Grigorie II, though the lesser clergy slowly came to resent both of them. As shown by the contemporary \"Chronicle of Azarie\", Moldavians understood him to be \"of the same creed as his advisers\", namely a \"Lutheran\" and \"God's scourge\". The Orthodox Nicolae Costin took a dim view of Despot's stance on divorces, concluding that it made him an \"awful, unrepentant tyrant\". Despot angered his subjects when he began confiscating reliquaries, rizas and chalices, melting them for bullion. This remained his one documented attack on Orthodox institutions: primarily patrimonial in nature, it also reflected Despot's intention to simplify religious practice. In Orthodox and Catholic historiography, the confiscations were also regarded as proof of Despot's Protestant iconoclasm.\n\nHeraclid was aware of the mounting hostility. He survived several assassination attempts, masterminded by Lăpușneanu: in April 1562, he had Hussar Voina impaled for such an attempt in the city of Roman; in 1563, there were two other documented strikes, occurring during his military maneuvers. His clampdown on dissent included the killing of Andreica, a former \"Stolnic\", whom he regarded as a serious competitor for the throne. His lynching was staged by the Hungarian garrison of Suceava on Saint George Day 1562, and applauded by a handpicked civilian audience. Administrative letters show that, during early 1562, the Prince and Łaski had imprisoned some seven grand boyars, effectively purging his Boyar Council; later documents suggest that they were killed in custody.\n\nHowever, Despot still kept his Protestant faith secret, or not immediately apparent, performing the actions of an Orthodox monarch—including taking part in the Epiphany and bowing to kiss the Gospel. In March 1562, he restored to Humor Monastery the estate of Feredeni, which he had confiscated from Andreica. Also that year, he gave a rude reception to Wolfgang Schreiber, sent by Hans von Ungnad on a mission to convert Orthodox Christians to Lutheranism. His veto effectively took Moldavia out of the project to establish a Protestant presence in Eastern Europe at large. Crăciun proposes that this episode reflects, on one hand, Despot's attempt to placate his Orthodox subjects and, on the other, his growing and genuine dislike of the Magisterial Reformation.\n\nIn October 1562, Heraclid invaded Wallachia and routed the Wallachian army sent to repel him. He was styling himself \"palatine of Wallachia\", probably hinting that he wanted to incorporate both territories into the Holy Roman Empire, with himself as the intermediate vassal. He now also intended to place a \"son of Basarab\" on the Wallachian throne, as a puppet ruler; historians agree that this is a reference to Banul Mărăcine or Nicolaus Bassaraba, two exiled Craiovești. Despot made a public show of his supposedly precognitive dream, in which three angels brought him three crowns, or, in the version provided by the 17th-century chronicler Miron Costin, \"two gilded crowns [fell] from the skies for him to take\". Despot actually owned two such crowns, which, according to Papacostea, stood for the Upper and Lower Countries of Moldavia; they were later lost. In June 1562, Despot accused the mercenary Jean Villey of having stolen all his regalia.\n\nIn tandem, Zápolya made efforts to convince the Porte that Heraclid was a Habsburg loyalist who conspired with Emperor Ferdinand, noting that \"this Despot has manned the forts with Germans and Hungarians\", and that \"all bandits from Transylvania and Poland gathered under him\". The solution, Zápolya argued, could only be Lăpușneanu's return to his throne. During this exchange of information, the Porte discovered that its Hungarian correspondence had been copied and read by Ferdinand's regents, which sparked a brief diplomatic crisis, at the end of which Suleiman insisted that Ferdinand remove his mercenaries from Moldavia. Ferdinand complied, and Despot was only left with 800 non-German mercenaries, most of them Hungarian. Faced with Zápolya's intrigues and Chiajna's complaints, Despot also withdrew his troops from Wallachia. Nevertheless, the itinerant jurist Simon Wirt recorded a rumor that Despot (referred to as \"Desparity\") had persuaded Suleiman the Magnificent to arrest Lăpușneanu and make him a galley slave.\n\nOn January 6, 1563, Despot made another display of his respect for Orthodoxy, with a coronation ceremony at Suceava Cathedral. According to Iorga, Despot was an \"actor\" who \"altogether lived too little in the real world\", and his ambitions (such as inviting all neighboring monarchs to witness his anointment) \"would normally stir laughter.\" In some Protestant sources, the ceremony at Suceava was perceived as a betrayal, and equated with an Orthodox baptism. At the coronation and after, Despot reportedly used a non-traditional title, that of Moldavian \"King\". In addition to coins, he minted for himself a new crown and a distinguishing seal. His portrait on coinage also had a circlet, a sword, and a scepter, and carried his dedication as \"Herclis Despote Patris Patriae\". Various other documents have him as more simply \"Ioan\" (\"John\") and \"Voivode\": was his signature in Church Slavonic, \"Iohann Waiwoda\" was one of his Latin names. While \"Ioan\" was in regular use as a regnal particle for all Princes, it was extremely rare as an actual name.\n\nHis matrimonial projects then shifted focus, with Despot contemplating a stronger alliance with Polish nobility. He courted a daughter of Marcin Zborowski, sending some of his mercenaries to retrieve her, but his conflicts with the magnates put a stop to all such overtures. Also in January, Despot designated Łaski as his heir, though this recognition was conditioned on the Prince having no legitimate male children. Over the following weeks, their relationship tottered over payments of Despot's debts to Łaski. By February, Despot had cancelled Łaski's deed to Hotin, and put in his own garrison, ensuring himself against an attack from the rear. Despot centered his attempts on obtaining an understanding with the government of Poland. Sigismund Augustus had since been persuaded that Moldavia was not a threat to him and his own uneasy peace with the Ottomans. Also in 1563, Despot renewed Lăpușneanu's oath of fealty to the Polish crown. This document confirmed Moldavia's obligation to supply Poland with 7,000 soldiers, including in the event of war with the Ottomans.\n\nAt that stage, Moldavians were also enraged by Despot's new tax of a ducat on every household. By July, although he had duly paid his country's tribute (the \"haraç\"), Despot was also a \"persona non grata\" at the Porte. Papacostea and other authors believe that Despot's downfall was nevertheless accelerated by another factor, namely his pledge to marry Zborowski's daughter. It signified to the boyars that Despot wished to set up a Protestant dynasty in an Orthodox country. The rebels' indictment of the Prince specifically cited him as an enemy of God's law. In a June 1563 document, Despot refers to his succession line as: \"whomever of Our children or of Our house is to become \"hospodar\", or whoever God will select to rule upon Our land of Moldavia\".\n\nSchesaeus and Mathias Miles recount a failed attempt on Despot's life—as the culmination of a plot uniting clergymen, including Metropolitan Grigorie, and boyars. At the Eucharist of 1563, the plotters mixed the sacramental bread with poison. Despot was saved by a deserting conspirator, who made sure that Despot would not touch the bread, and invited the clergy to have first servings; according to Miles, all of them, including Grigorie, died within hours of the meal. Schesaeus believes that only \"the monks\" were poisoned, while boyars were ambushed and stabbed to death by loyalist mercenaries.\n\nIn its final form, the plot centered on \"Hatman\" Ștefan Tomșa and Moțoc, who co-opted a deserting courtier, Iosif Veveriță. Another \"Hatman\", Toma Barnovschi, formerly seen as Despot's \"Viceroy\", was reportedly threatened with bodily harm in order to join that conspiracy. In another conspiratorial action, the boyars managed to poison Lusinski, who was then buried outside Suceava. During that summer, Dmytro Vyshnevetsky, \"Hetman\" of the Zaporizhian Sich, intervened in Moldavia with the probable intention of seizing Despot's throne. Alarmed, Despot offered Vyshnevetsky peace, promising a gift of 1,000 horses and some thousands of oxen. Although supported by Łaski, Vyshnevetsky's forces were finally crushed. One account suggests that Vyshnevetsky and Łaski quarreled; the former reached an understanding with Despot, and was delivered by Łaski into Tomșa's hands. The Zaporizhian \"Hetman\" was then dispatched to Istanbul, and impaled on hooks.\n\nThe army that had defeated Vyshnevetsky then besieged Despot at Suceava for some three months. The boyars had ambushed many of Despot's mercenaries, having invited them to a staged celebration at Sipoteni. In parallel, Tomșa encouraged an anti-Protestant pogrom, which exterminated Lusinski's widow and child, Despot's son, and a number of Cotnari's Calvinist families. Main targets also included Armenian women, after some were caught praying for Despot's well-being. Sommer recounts that these events came just as Lestarchus, finally answering Despot's invitation, was preparing to enter the country, prompting the scholar to return home. There were several aborted moves to restore the old regime. One version is that Łaski switched sides again, returning to serve Despot and the Habsburg cause in exchange for the return of Hotin. Other authors argue that this never happened, despite Despot's desperate attempts. A more sustained effort came from a Habsburg envoy, Melchior Balassa.\n\nInside Suceava, Heraclid believed that he was facing a mutiny of his infantrymen, and executed their leader, Captain Devay or Dervici. Reportedly, the decision was rash, and actually pushed the troops into rebellion. The chronicler Grigore Ureche reports that the survivors intended to take their revenge and kill Despot, but feared that they would be decapitated for treason. Eventually, the Hungarian mercenaries inside Suceava turned against Despot, exhausting his capacity for resistance. The Prince then prepared his surrender. His physician, Dyonisus d'Avalos, claimed that just hours before his death, he renounced and denounced Reformation as a whole, deploring his own role in the \"mockery of the divine religion\" and voicing the wish to withdraw to a monastery. This narrative is partly corroborated in Catholic reports of the period, which claim that Despot's final wish was to be ordained. According to Crăciun, the exhibition was insincere, a final act in the constant dissimulation of Heraclid's Protestant or Unitarian faith.\n\nDespot's surrender and death are dated to November 4–5, 1563. He stepped out of the fortress, dressed in full regalia, and walked or rode toward his enemies. Ureche recounts that Despot met Tomșa just outside the city walls, on the open fields of Areni. In anticipation, the rebel leader had gathered here the estates of the realm, to approve of his own coronation. According to various accounts, Tomșa personally killed Despot in front of the assembly, striking him with a mace. Ureche and Schesaeus suggest that death came not from the blow itself, but from being left to bleed. Other sources contrarily note that Despot was killed by one or several executioners. An 18th-century chronicle reports that Despot's body was taken for burial at Putna Monastery, but this contradicts sources which say that his grave was dug at Areni. Schesaeus notes that Despot had been reduced to pieces by the \"rabid crowd\", whereas Sommer only recalls that Despot's severed head was embalmed and sent as a gift to Istanbul. As this occurred, Tomșa also arrested Demetrios, but pardoned him, marking his nose with a cut—since mutilation technically invalidated him from ever taking the throne.\n\nFranciscus Pestientis, the pseudonymous Habsburg spy, noted immediately after that Zápolya was directly involved in Despot's assassination, thus securing Eastern Hungary's other border in case of a Habsburg attack from the west. Soldiers sent by Zápolya were present at the final taking of Suceava. This was a major setback for the Habsburg designs in Eastern Europe, and contributed to the reorientation of Ferdinand's foreign policies. According to Denize, Despot's own \"Dacian\" plan was not fully abandoned by the Moldavians, but resumed in later generations within \"more realistic proportions\". Historians such as Adolf Armbruster and Cătălin Pungă note that the 1561 discourse holds the first traces of Romanian nationalism. Pungă argues that Despot adopted it for the \"captatio benevolentiae\" of his subjects, meaning that the idea of a Moldo–Wallachian political union preceded Despot's reign. As argued by Theodorescu, Despot, as a \"cultured adventurer\", was one of those figures who \"affirmed sonorously the Romanians' Romanness\".\n\nTomșa took the throne, though he never managed to obtain Ottoman recognition; he was also attacked by Peter the Younger, who dreamed of uniting the two thrones, but was able to defeat him. He and Moțoc ultimately fled to Poland, where they were put to death in May 1564. His short regnal interlude confused writers of the period: in a 1564 brief by the Venetian mercenary Giovanandrea Gromo, Despot and Tomșa are merged into a \"Stefano Eraclio\". In late 1563, having obtained Joseph Nasi's support, Lăpușneanu returned to Moldavia to begin his second reign. Allied with the Crimeans, he allowed them to raid Moldavian villages and take some 21,000 peasants as slaves. There then came new heights of terror, specifically aimed at those boyars and Orthodox priests who had supported Despot. One mass execution made 47 boyar and courtier victims. Records show that he also targeted the minority religions, ordering massacres of the Armenians and less documented persecutions of the remaining Protestants. He tolerated Catholics, and, in at least one instance, openly agreed with them that Despot had been a \"godless man\".\n\nThe new monarch reportedly ordered Despot's remains exhumed, placed in a burlap sack, and left to hang from a pole. One record claims that Putna's monks recovered them and placed them in a smaller wooden monastery; two centuries after, Putna was still preserving Despot's empty grave. Lăpușneanu also delivered Demetrios to Chiajna, who ordered his public humiliation and decapitation. In 1565–1566 Łaski activated his rights to the throne, and tried to invade Moldavia with Habsburg help; he had competition from Ștefan Mâzgă, endorsed by Pierre Roussel and Ferenc Zay. Also then, impostors claiming to be Despot's brother or son appeared in Venetian territories or under Habsburg rule. Peter the Younger's rival Mărăcine, who was living in exile in Istanbul, had been executed on Suleiman's orders. Nicolaus Bassaraba followed in Despot's footsteps, escaping to Malta, then to Spain.\n\nThe \"Chronicle of Azarie\" includes a posthumous damnation of Despot. His death, the author claimed, had \"stifled the amber that produced a smoke of non-belief\". Traditional Moldavian historiography replicated this narrative, asserting that Despot's downfall was an act of divine retribution. Crăciun notes that the \"reactive violence or intensity offer a measure of the impact his [religious] policies have had on Moldavian society\". Another author, Cristian Luca, proposes a parallel between Despot and a 1580s Wallachian Prince, Petru Cercel, in that they both tried to Westernize their countries but were met with violent hostility from traditionalists. However, some Moldavians remained indebted to the deceased Prince. According to Kesterska Sergescu, a series of rebellions and mass flights in the later 1560s suggests that \"Jacob Heraclide's example did not go unheeded\". Historical topographers note the presence of a carved stone slab at Areni, which may indicate that the populace there still commemorated his death.\n\nDespite Azarie's pronouncements, Johann Sommer survived the persecutions and was still present in Moldavia by 1570, when he joined Ferenc Dávid's Unitarian movement in Transylvania. Cotnari's \"collegium\" continued to function as a Calvinist seminary until 1588, when Peter the Lame ceded it to the Catholics. As noted by literary historian D. Murărașu, it had failed in its apparent promise, that of sparking a \"cultural renaissance\" in Orthodox lands; scholar Traian Diaconescu also argues that, having \"planted the seed of Renaissance culture\", Despot still \"failed to realize that one cannot abruptly 'civilize' a country with only a few educated boyars, and illiterate masses.\" Despot's influence on the Catholic community of Iași County was sensed in the 1590s by Bernardo Quirini, the church inspector, who found that Catholics had kept the Lutheran books and even agreed with some Protestant doctrines. The new school was eventually moved out of Cotnari, and is today's Saint Joseph Institute.\n\nDespot had a fragmented legacy in visual arts and architecture. He ordered a Calvinist church to be built at Cotnari, but it remained unfinished. After taking Suceava, he ordered the battle of Verbia to be depicted on the (since deteriorated) walls of his princely palace. He also created here a book collection, including precious manuscript copies of the classics, such as a gilded-letter version of Cicero's works, from \"De re publica\" to \"Epistulae ad Atticum\". According to several authors, Despot's religious experiment may have also had an enduring impact on Romanian culture: his presumed patronage of some liturgical translations is credited by Papacostea for having given impetus to the emergence of literary Romanian. Scholar N. Drăganu believed that such translations not only existed, but influenced the printer Coresi. This theory was rejected by literary historian Alexandru Rosetti, who notes that Coresi was already active in 1559.\n\nIn 1563, Heraclid also had an indirect impact on the landscape and art of Lviv by lending money to his fellow Greek art patron, Konstanty Korniakt. His own rebuilding of Suceava came with an influx of German and Italian master craftsmen, including a goldsmith Wolfgang Midwischer. The state mint put out Despot's own version of the Lăpușneanu gold dinar and Ferdinand's silver \"Ort\", though its main products were bronze and copper pennies inspired by the Ottoman \"mangır\". Theodorescu believes that the portraits on his bullion coins can be attributed to Midwischer. They replicated Western Renaissance portraits, and proved highly influential, changing monetary symbolism for some 30 years.\n\nScholarly debates cover the interpretation of Despot's coinage, seals, and greater coat of arms. His imperial diploma of 1555 showed a regular \"party per cross\" shield with various charges, including a fish-with-ring, a temple, a bay tree, and a lion. In 1560, Despot also began using the Moldavian aurochs, which generally had a classical (affronty, \"inescutcheon\") representation. This symbolism became more complex during his reign, when a 14-quarters heraldic seal appeared, also including the aurochs and the \"Reichsadler\"; a charge of roses was also featured. The result is described as a \"pretentious heraldic amalgam\" by scholar Dan Cernovodeanu, who also notes its similarity with the personal arms of Charles V.\n\nPippidi identifies the three roses as canting arms of Rhodos, while the fish and \"Polycrates' ring\" stand for Samos. However, Cernovodeanu argues that Despot took his roses from the Mușatins' dynastic arms, also borrowing a modified \"fleur-de-lis\" and Pahonia (which became, respectively, a \"leaf-like\" pattern and a cross pattée). Other scholars believe that the roses allude to Despot's project of uniting Moldavia and Wallachia, or, contrarily, that they have a purely aesthetic function. A lion also appeared on dinars probably minted by Despot for circulation in an occupied Transylvania. These are largely based on the Hunyadi family arms, including a raven, and also feature a Patriarchal cross. The intent behind such symbolism may be political, or more pragmatically an attempt capitalize on the prestige of dinars from the old Hungarian Kingdom. All such imagery is altered in the final issues of coinage, where Despot uses the aurochs, the Wallachian bird, and the seven towers of Transylvania under a \"Reichsadler\".\n\nDespot's turbulent rule was the object of interest outside the Danubian Principalities. As Pippidi notes, by 1563 he had a \"European notoriety.\" Sommer's memoirs and Christian Schesaeus' poetry \"opened a line of \"belles-lettres\" works focusing on the Moldavian prince.\" In the 18th century, inspired by Leunclavius' essay on Despot, Jean-Baptiste de Recoles composed verse lamenting the killing of \"Jacques Héraclide\" by his \"irresponsible people\". Several historical sources associated with the Knights Hospitaller have enshrined the legend of a \"Basilicus Melitensis\", identified as a 15th- or 16th-century ruler \"of Wallachia\"; in Mifsud Bonnici's biographical dictionary, he appears as \"Basilio ta' Vallachia\". This tradition was also publicized in the 1990s by Maltese authors Charles A. Gauci and Vincent Zammit, who complied the various textual references and published reproductions of Basilicus' attributed portraits. According to Pippidi, the story itself is a distant retelling of Despot's career in Moldavia, while the portraits are part of the invented tradition: they depict the 17th-century Cosimo II de' Medici and the 18th-century Constantin Brâncoveanu; inscriptions identifying them as \"Basilicus\" were probably added before 1850. By the 1860s, the complete story of Despot's reign had been popularized in Malta by authors G. Trapani, G. A. Vassallo, and L. Calleja, the latter of whom also drew his portrait.\n\nDespot's project to unite Wallachia and Moldavia was only realized in 1859, with the \"United Principalities\". Here and in the successor Kingdom of Romania, interest in Heraclid's life was revived by a series of literary works. A \"Despot Vodă\" is one of six \"Romanian history dramas\" completed by Dimitrie Bolintineanu in the 1860s. A decade later, Samson Bodnărescu similarly focused on the rule of Lăpușneanu, inexplicably eliminating Despot from his retelling. Vasile Alecsandri was inspired by Bodnărescu to revisit the events with his own work of drama. Also called \"Despot Vodă\", it was first shown at the National Theater Bucharest in October 1879. The work was loosely based on the historical narrative, and more heavily indebted to Victor Hugo. It divided the public between those who, like Ion Ghica, saw in it Alecsandri's masterpiece, and dissatisfied critics, such as Barbu Ștefănescu Delavrancea. Iorga also viewed its take on Heraclid as \"exaggerated and false\", failing to capture the \"sincere dreamer\". Literary historian Sebastian-Vlad Popa notes that, by the 1990s, the work was viewed as \"detestable\" in the theatrical community, and ridiculed as a \"wooden text\".\n\nAlso in the 1870s, Nicolae Scurtescu contributed a dramatic poem with the same subject and title. According to Iorga and Murărașu, it is just as valuable as Alecsandri's text. Popa notes a contrast, in that Scurtescu's writing is \"naturalistic\", its violence seeping into \"absurdity\". Theodor Codrescu's play \"Plăeșul Logofăt Mare\", dating from the same stage in literary development, was also set in Heraclid's Moldavia. Translated into Italian as \"Amore e Giustizia\", it was performed in 1897 at Naples. Despot is also the hero of 1920s short stories by Eug. Boureanu, and of two historical novels: Constantin Gane's \"Farmece\" (1933) and Romulus Seișanu's \"Aventuroasa viață a lui Despot-Vodă\" (1938). In the late 1930s, a successful effort was made to collect and publish all of Despot's own manuscripts on military matters, grouping copies from the national libraries of Poland and Austria, and from the Prussian Archives; another manuscript tract, signed by Christoporski, was discovered by Olteanu at Kórnik in the 1960s.\n"}
{"id": "2151050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151050", "title": "Irving S. Reed", "text": "Irving S. Reed\n\nIrving Stoy Reed (November 12, 1923 – September 11, 2012) was a mathematician and engineer. He is best known for co-inventing a class of algebraic error-correcting and error-detecting codes known as Reed–Solomon codes in collaboration with Gustave Solomon. He also co-invented the Reed–Muller code.\n\nReed made many contributions to areas of electrical engineering including radar, signal processing, and image processing. He was part of the team that built the MADDIDA, guidance system for Northrop's Snark cruise missile – one of the first digital computers. He developed and introduced the now-standard Register Transfer Language to the computer community while at M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory. He was a faculty member of the Electrical Engineering-Systems Department of the University of Southern California from 1962 to 1993.\n\nReed was a member of the National Academy of Engineering (1979) and a Fellow of the IEEE (1973), a winner of the Claude E. Shannon Award, the IEEE Computer Society Charles Babbage Award, the IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal (1989) and with Gustave Solomon, the 1995 IEEE Masaru Ibuka Award. In 1998 Reed received a Golden Jubilee Award for Technological Innovation from the IEEE Information Theory Society.\n\nThe University of Southern California graduate school of electrical engineering required doctoral students to pass an oral screening exam, in which there were eight categories of test questions. Reed always asked the questions about electromagnetism and specifically Maxwell's equations, which he obviously viewed as fundamental to communication theory.\n\nWhile a student in mathematics at the California Institute of Technology, Reed did not complete his required physical education courses due to time pressure and was set to enter the Navy. The only way he could graduate was to obtain a special release from Robert A. Millikan, the university's president and a former physical education instructor as well as a Nobel Prize winner and a noted hard-liner on the physical education requirement. As Reed was in Millikan's office pleading his case, he saw reprints of two papers he had published as an undergraduate on the president's table and drew them to Millikan's attention. Millikan smiled and said \"You seem to me a healthy young man. I believe you will do well in the service of your country as a graduate of the California Institute of Technology.\"\n\nReed and colleagues demonstrated the MADDIDA computer to John von Neumann at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. The problem set for MADDIDA was computation of a mathematical function. Von Neumann, a noted lightning calculator, kept up with the computer and checked its results with a paper and pencil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6869381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6869381", "title": "J. D. \"Jay\" Miller", "text": "J. D. \"Jay\" Miller\n\nJoseph Denton \"Jay\" Miller (May 5, 1922 – March 23, 1996) was an American record producer, musician and songwriter from Crowley, Louisiana, whose Cajun, swamp blues, and swamp pop recordings influenced American popular culture.\n\nMiller was born in Iota, Louisiana, on May 5, 1922, and spent many childhood years in El Campo, Texas. He lived most of his life in Crowley, where in the late 1930s he played guitar with several Cajun bands, including the Four Aces, the Rice City Ramblers, and the Daylight Creepers. In 1946, he began to record Cajun musicians, using a studio belonging to the record producer Cosimo Matassa, in New Orleans. In 1946, his new label, Fais Do Do Records, recorded most notably the string band Happy, Doc, and the Boys (Happy Fats and Oran \"Doc\" Guidry). After a few records, in 1947, he changed the name of the label to Feature Records, which recorded Cajun musicians such as Amidie Breaux, Aldus Roger, Austin Pete and various other country musicians. Later, Miller would create and record for smaller labels for different genres of music: Rocko Records (originally Rocket), Zynn Records, Showtime Records, Rebel Records, Kajun Records, Cajun Classics, Blues Unlimited, Swade, Excello, Spot, Action, Kay, Ringo, Tribute, and French \"Hits\".\n\nIn the 1950s he began to record swamp pop artists, including King Karl, Guitar Gable, Warren Storm, Rod Bernard, and Johnnie Allan, among others. In 1952, Miller wrote the lyrics to \"It Wasn't God Who Made Honky Tonk Angels\" (an answer song to the recent Hank Thompson hit \"The Wild Side of Life\"). The song, as recorded by Kitty Wells, became gold and stayed number 1 for several weeks.\n\nAround this time he also began to record swamp blues artists, such as Lightnin' Slim, Lazy Lester, Lonesome Sundown and Slim Harpo. Miller produced Harpo's \"I'm a King Bee\" and \"Rainin' in My Heart,\" significant swamp blues recordings later covered, respectively, by the Rolling Stones and by Neil Young. From 1962 to 1965, Miller also recorded sides by Silas Hogan, until Miller argued with the new owners of Excello Records and his input to that label dried up.\n\nMiller's recording studio attracted a handful of mainstream recording artists, including Paul Simon, who used the studio to record \"That Was Your Mother\", a track from his acclaimed album \"Graceland\", and John Fogerty, who traveled to Crowley to record a cover of \"My Toot Toot\", by the zydeco musician Rockin' Sidney.\n\nMiller's songwriting credits include \"It Wasn't God Who Made Honky Tonk Angels.\"\n\nAlthough he claimed to be a segregationist, Miller nonetheless used interracial studio bands during the Jim Crow era, when black and white musicians in the South were not permitted to mingle onstage or elsewhere in public. He professed to enjoy African-American blues music more than any other musical genre, and he wrote blues songs under the pseudonym \"Jay West\" (a name he used to disguise his race). Yet in the 1960s he also produced and released several racist recordings on his own Reb Rebel label, most notably those of Johnny Rebel (the pseudonym of a local Cajun/country musician, Clifford \"Pee Wee\" Trahan). Today, compact discs of Miller's racist recordings can be found for sale on various racist and hate group websites.\n\nMiller died in Crowley, on March 23, 1996, after complications following quadruple bypass surgery. The Jay D. Miller Award, granted by the Louisiana Blues Hall of Fame, is named for him.\n\nSongs by Miller, covered by other artists:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4631590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4631590", "title": "Julius Marinus", "text": "Julius Marinus\n\nJulius Marinus was the father of Roman Emperor Philip the Arab and Philip's brother Gaius Julius Priscus. He was deified by his son. Scholar Pat Southern writes that this deification was unusual because Marinus was not an emperor, but it gave Philip's reign more legitimacy.\nHe was a Roman citizen from what is today Shahba, about southeast of Damascus; in the Trachonitis district and then in the Roman province of Arabia\n\nIn life Marinus was possibly of some importance. Many historians agree Philip gained Roman citizenship through Marinus.\n"}
{"id": "53343063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53343063", "title": "Justin Parish", "text": "Justin Parish\n\nJustin V. Parish (born August 27, 1980) is a member of the Alaska House of Representatives. He is a Democrat serving in his first term. Parish represents Alaska's thirty-fourth district, which encompasses parts of Juneau, Alaska, including the Mendenhall Valley, Auke Bay, \"Out the Road\", and Airport area.\n\n"}
{"id": "56975762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56975762", "title": "Kanitha Wichiencharoen", "text": "Kanitha Wichiencharoen\n\nKhunying Kanitha Wichiencharoen (4 November 1920 – 13 May 2002) was a Thai lawyer and women's rights advocate until late in life when she became a maechee. Most noted for her human rights work with women, she established the first emergency shelter for women in Thailand and wrote legislation to protect women's rights. She established the Mahapajapati Theri College, the first college to train women as Buddhist nuns in southeast Asia.\n\nKanitha Samsen was born on 4 November 1920 in Bangkok, in the Kingdom of Siam to Thanom and Mangorn Samsen. She was one of two daughters of the couple and her father was a well-known lawyer, who served as a senator during the transition to a constitutional monarchy. Her parents encouraged both Kanitha and her sister, Kanok, in their education. Samsen began her studies at St. Francis Xavier Convent School and later attended St. Yoseph Convent School, before enrolling in law school at Thammasat University. After working for two years as a counselor with women who had suffered abuse and discrimination, Samsen moved to Washington, D. C. to study international law at American University and Columbia University in New York City. She then moved to Switzerland and studied international relations at the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies for the year in 1949.\n\nReturning to Bangkok, Samsen took a job at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where she met Adul Wichiencharoen, whom she would marry in 1950 and with whom she would subsequently have three children: Aim, Anik, and Art. In 1953, Wichiencharoen returned to the United States to study social welfare at Howard University in Washington, D. C. Upon her graduation, in 1955, she returned to Thailand and worked as a supervisor at the Standard Vacuum Oil Company. She also worked for USAID and then as the legal advisor to the Tourist Authority. In 1961, she began a three-year term as president of the Women Lawyer's Association of Thailand, traveling abroad as her duties required. As she visited other countries, she sought out women's shelters, intent on finding ways to improve services to women. She also instituted Saturday workshops where women lawyers gave \"pro bono\" legal advice to the public as a way of offering community assistance. Becoming the executive secretary of the Thai-American Technical Cooperation Association in 1963, she would serve in that capacity for the organization for the next twenty-one years. In addition, she advised as a legal counselor to the United Nations, various developmental NGOs and the petroleum industry.\n\nIn 1969, Wichiencharoen was selected as president of the International Women's Association of Thailand. Participating in the Thai women's rights movement actively throughout the 1970s, in 1974, Wichiencharoen became a founder of The Association for the Promotion of the Status of Women (APSW). The association, made up of both women and men began campaigning to revise and amend laws to provide better protections for women and children. She served as president of the organization and simultaneously became chair of the National Council of Women's standing committee on Women and Labor. Because there were no facilities available in Thailand to assist abused, unemployed and elderly women, Wichiencharoen opened her home to serve as an emergency shelter. When the police did not know what to do with endangered women, they brought them to her. She traveled extensively studying the situation of women around the world, participating in numerous conferences and academic experiences, such as a 1961 study of the family and youth courts of Japan; a 1977 assessment of the Australian family court and women’s shelters; a 1979 study tour which included observations at the Kansas City Women's Center, shelters in San Francisco and Washington, D.C., and a rape crisis center in New York; 1987 participation in the Federation of Soviet Women Congress in Prague; 1988 lecturer at the Nordic forum and Swedish Women’s Association, among many others.\n\nIn 1980, in response to needs identified by the Lawyer's Association, Wichiencharoen began a funding drive to establish a permanent women's shelter. Raising ฿50,000 ($2,000 US), APSW set up a shelter in the building of the Lawyer's association, offering housing, meals and medical referrals. The first women's shelter in Thailand, the Emergency Home and Relief Fund for Women and Children in Distress overflowed with clients. By 1986, they had outgrown their original space and opened a second and then a third home in the Donmuang District of Bangkok. Recognizing that their assistance was being provided after-the-fact, Wichiencharoen began raising funds to open an educational facility. The Women's Education and Training Center (WE-TRAIN), providing educational as well as vocational training, was established in 1988. Long wanting to develop a clinic to assist with pregnant women, in response to the growing needs of women after the HIV/AIDS epidemic was identified in the 1980s, a clinic was finally established. \n\nIn 1990, Wichiencharoen founded a policy research center to analyze and advise on socio-economic and political issues impacting women's lives. The Gender and Development Research Institute (GDRI), was established as an NGO, and works across the spectrum of social class to improve the welfare of women. Long aware of the discrepancies in the Buddhist faith regarding women in the ministry, and the subservience required of nuns to monks, Wichiencharoen became ordained as a \"maechee\" or \"lay nun\" in Sri Lanka in 1993. Keeping her title, \"khunying\", the equivalent of the British \"dame\", she received criticism from the media, but because the king had bestowed the title and failure to use it would be a sign of disrespect, she took the name Maechee Khunying Kanitha. As she was still involved in the advocacy work of APSW, she also did not choose to live in the \"samnak chii\" with the other nuns, but established a separate cottage where she lived with a few other members of the community. In 1996, she drew up and lobbied for passage of the Nun's Bill of Rights advocating that women in religious orders should have political autonomy protected by law and have sole authority for allocating their funding ad determining ordination or censure of members. Though the bill failed, she continued to press for measures to improve the perceptions and opportunities of nuns. In 1999, Maechee Khunying Kanitha, working with the Thai Nun's Institute and APSW founded the first college, Mahapajapati Theri College, to offer women a bachelor of arts degree in Buddhism and philosophy.\n\nWichiencharoen died on 13 May 2002 from cancer. She is recognized as a pioneer of women's rights advocacy in Thailand In 1990, at the festivities held at the Sorbonne in honor of International Women's Day, Wichiencharoen was honored as an outstanding advocate for women and in 1995, she received an honorary doctorate in Philosophy, Sociology and Anthropology from Ramkhamhaeng University. \n\n"}
{"id": "35934754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35934754", "title": "Keith Lewin", "text": "Keith Lewin\n\nKeith M Lewin is a British Professor of International education and Development at the University of Sussex and Director of the Consortium for Research on Educational Access, Transitions and Equity (CREATE). He is known for his work in educational planning, economics and finance of education, teacher education, assessment, science and technology education policy in developing countries, educational aid and program evaluation. He has been adviser to various governmental, multilateral and non-profit organisations on education planning and policy, including the World Bank, DFID, UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning, UNICEF, UNDP, AusAID and others. His country experience includes projects in Ghana, Rwanda, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Malawi, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados, India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Malaysia, and China.\n\nFrom 1995–2011 he was the Director of the Centre for International Education (CIE), at the University of Sussex, which he developed as an internationally recognised centre for research on education and development in low income countries. Lewin has supervised more than 40 Doctoral students and was the founding Director of the master's degree program in International Education and Development at the University of Sussex which is now in its thirty third year with over 500 alumni. He has been grant holder for over £4.5 million worth of research and development projects and has been a top ten grant holder at the University of Sussex for most of the last 15 years. Lewin is an honorary professor at Hangzhou University and Beijing Normal University. He is the author of numerous books, journal articles and reports on education and development.\n\nLewin was born in Kent in the United Kingdom. He attended school in Kent and South London. From 1968 to 1971 he read physics at Manchester University where he graduated with a first class honours degree. He then went on to complete a Masters in Innovation and Science Policy jointly taught with Manchester Business School and wrote a thesis on the scientific research organisations that were supported by British aid. He then moved to the Institute of Development Studies in Sussex as one of its first graduate students. He joined a large multi-country project on education and development across six countries focusing on the \"Diploma Disease\" and the interface between education systems and labour markets. His thesis explored science education in Malaysia and Sri Lanka and the impact of externally supported innovations to improve access, quality and outcomes linked to development. In 1973/74 he took time out from his Doctorate to work with Voluntary Service Overseas teaching physics and maths in Kelantan, Malaysia. In 1977 he was appointed to a tenured post at the University of Sussex. He was appointed Reader in 1986 and Professor in 1995 when he became Director of the Centre for International Education. He is a chartered phycist and an Academician of the Academy of Social Sciences.\n\nLewin has worked extensively in South East Asia with a special focus on Malaysia, Sri Lanka, and most recently in India. In Malaysia he was a visiting lecturer at University Malaya whilst completing his doctorate working closely with colleagues in the Pusat Perkembangan Kurrikulum (PPK). Subsequently, he co-authored a major report on science education in Malaysia published by the Malaysian Ministry of Education and the UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning and has worked with many students and officials from the Ministry.\n\nIn Sri Lanka Lewin initially worked with the national curriculum centre and was then an advisor for the establishment of the National Institute of Education (NIE) for UNDP. He also contributed to the development of the Sri Pada College of Education for UNDP. Subsequently, he has organised programs for high level Ministry officials and assisted with the development of the Education Sector Development Framework Programme (ESDFP) which is coordinated by the World Bank. \nIn India Lewin has worked closely with the National University of Educational Planning (NUEPA) on a large scale program of research on access and equity using household surveys and child tracking to understand more about why more than half the children in North Indian states fail to reach secondary school. CREATE, a research consortium that Lewin helped develop, has designed and developed an extensive programme of empirical research involving large scale household suirveys and village level school based data collection. In addition Lewin has worked closely with teams from Bihar, Tamil Nadu, and Madhya Pradesh and with the Ministry of Human Resource Development and NUEPA to develop state level framework plans for Rastriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) with the aim of progressing towards universal access of quality secondary education across India. These plans project participation, activities and costs forward and identify bottlenecks and critical constraints on expanded access.\n\nLewin established the first educational link programs in China with a UK university in the early 1980s after the end of the Cultural Revolution and the fall of the \"Gang of Four\". Hangzhou University in Zhejiang provided a centre for UK-China education links under the leadership of Professor Wang Chengxu. After the links were established, which provided for exchange visits by students and staff, the first phase of work centred around evaluating the impact of the 1986 Basic Education Law. This anticipated the global commitments made at the World Conference on Education for All (WCEFA) in Jomtien to universalise access to primary schooling, and followed from China's \"Four Modernizations\" drive to develop.\n\nIn parallel with the work in Zhejiang a similar exchange was established with Beijing Normal University and Professor Wang Yingjie. This led to a UNICEF supported program to research educational reform in three different districts – one rich, one poor, and one with a national minority population. This was consolidated into a book published by the UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning. The study was replicated in 2009–2011 after twenty years of development had transformed many parts of urban and rural China. The new study show dramatic changes in all the case study areas and draws attention to changing patterns of horizontal and vertical equity and to large scale demographic changes related to internal migration. Lewin was made an Honorary professor at Hangzhou University (now Zheijiang University) in 1993 and at Beijing Normal University in 1994.\n\nLewin has worked in many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. For ten years he worked with Dr Ude Bude and colleagues on a network to support development for environmental science and agriculture programs across fourteen Sub Saharan African countries. The network engaged national examination boards and curriculum developers and was supported by the German Foundation for International Development (DSE). Over the period there were clear improvements in the quality of national assessments which determine the outcomes from learning and teaching. Lewin was also Special Advisor to the Minister of Education in Mauritius on financing and the implementation of the Education Masterplan, supported by UNDP.\n\nLewin started working in post apartheid South Africa in 1994. He has been involved in a range of work with national departments including sitting on the panel which reconfigured the national research funding system for science and technology. Lewin developed a link program with the University of Durban-Westville (UDW) and was instrumental in locating the Rockefeller Foundation funded African Children's Literacy in Science and Technology programme at UDW. He subsequently developed a close partnership with the University of the Witwatersrand to undertake research on access and equity in Gauteng and Eastern Cape. He was also the director of the Mpumalanga Primary School Initiative (MPSI), the first post apartheid DFID education programme in South Africa.\n\nLewin developed and co-directed the Multisite Teacher Education Research Project (MUSTER) with Dr Janet Stuart. This was the largest DFID funded education research project in the 1990s. It undertook empirical work in South Africa, Lesotho, Malawi, Ghana, and Trinidad and Tobago in initial teacher education and newly qualified teachers and created a collection of six books, over thirty working papers and a special edition of the International Journal of Educational and Development.\n\nIn 2001 Lewin was invited to be a senior consultant to the Government of Uganda and DFID to develop the national framework for Post Primary Education and Training (PPET). Subsequently, he was also senior consultant to the Government of Tanzania and the World Bank on finance for the Secondary Education Development Programme (World Bank) and for Planning Nine Year Basic Education in Rwanda, funded by DFID and the CfBT Education Trust. In each case he developed software for national projection models for recurrent and capital financing to shape sustainable Medium Term expenditure Frameworks, inform Sector Reviews leading to budget support, and focus policy dialogue on key issues.\n\nHis work in Ghana includes planning and financing teacher education and the extensive program of research of CREATE. In Malawi he has worked closely with the Centre for Educational Research and Training (CERT) in Zomba on secondary school financing and non-state schooling. 2012 he gave the opening plenary at a national research workshop in Ethiopia focused on education access, equity and quality supported by the Ministry of Education, DFID and the British Council designed to support the development of the Education Sector Development Programme. Currently he is undertaking research on low price private schools in Malawi\n\nLewin has acted as an advisor to many multi and bi-lateral development partners. After presenting to the Bellagio group of development partners in Mt St Marie, Quebec in 1981 he became increasingly involved in educational planning working closely with the UNESCO International Institute for Educational Planning (IIEP) in Paris where he developed approaches to planning in financial austerity and to planning science education. The latter developed over time and led to seminars on the development of science education at the World Bank and a book. Lewin's interests in financing led to an invitation from UNICEF to co-convene the Round table on \"Educating all the Children: The Financial Challenge for the 1990s\" at the World Conference on Education for All (WCEFA) at Jomtien, Thailand in 1990 and to the first estimates of the costs of Education for All and the reforms needed to create affordable systems. Downstream this resulted in a flow of activities related to addressing problems of sustainable financing for the expanded access to secondary schooling critical for development dependent on more knowledge intensive production and competitive service sector industries. This was the subject of a Round Table at the World Education Forum in Dakar in 2000 hosted by IIEP. Lewin's work on secondary school financing and development was presented in plenary to the Commonwealth Education Minister's Conference (CCEM 16) in Cape Town and to the Association for the Development of Education in Africa (ADEA) biennial meeting in Maputo. In the recent past UNICEF's program to undertake research on out of school children has drawn on models of educational exclusion developed by Lewin for CREATE. These models have also been used by DFID in its 2010 Strategy paper, and by AusAID in its 2011 Thematic Strategy for Education. They were recently presented in the opening plenary of the ninth meeting of the Forum of Education Minister's (FEdMM) in Vanuatu. Lewin gave the plenary address to the Commonwealth Minister's meeting in Mauritius in 2012 on the post 2015 development agenda for education. As a result, a Ministerial Committee was established with Lewin as technical advisor. The resulting matrix of goals, targets and indicators was published in January 2013.\n\nLewin's main research commitment since 2005 has been to develop the parallel program of work within the framework of the CREATE partnerships. Lewin established this research consortium with initial funding from DFID of £2.5 million. The consortium has undertaken research on access, equity and learning in basic education (including lower secondary schooling) in Bangladesh at BRAC University, India at National University of Educational Planning and Administration (NUEPA), Ghana at University of Education, Winneba and at University of Cape Coast, South Africa at the University of the Witwatersrand and with the Institute of Education, University of London, and the Centre for International Education, University of Sussex on a large scale with high level partners over five years. The research has also taken place on a smaller scale in Kenya, Malawi, China, and Sri Lanka in partnership with national teams of researchers. It has produced over 150 research products, including five books, 75 research monographs and four special editions of journals working with over 100 researchers. The research is summarised in the CREATE publication \"Making Rights Realities\" and all other research products are available at the CREATE website.\n\nIn addition to the CREATE consortium for Research on Educational Access, Transitions and Equity, Lewin has directed several multi-country research and development programs that include:\n\n\nLewin has made several contributions to thinking and to the literature on education and development. He has explored the systemic aspects of educational innovation in low income countries. This generated the \"Planner's Paradox\". Simply put innovation is needed where education systems fail to deliver quality learning equitably. Although innovation is needed, it can be disruptive, resource consuming, and may be unevenly implemented. As a result, innovation may adversely affect quality learning and equity. If the result is another innovation, the anticipated upward spiral to greater effectiveness and efficiency may become a downward spiral\n\nThis is related to the result of \"planning in terms of what ought to be rather than what is.\" This is also tied to the concept of \"Zones of Improbable Progress (ZIPS), which Lewin developed, that characterise the pursuit of goals long after it has become clear they are unattainable in the time available.\n\nLewin was one of the first analysts to consistently argue for balanced development strategies during and after the Jomtien World Conference on Education for All. Jomtien set the scene for an over emphasis on bi-lateral and multi-lateral support for primary schooling at the expense of investment in other education sub-sectors. This became evident as patterns of disbursement under Education for All programs shifted over the next decade.\n\nLewin's work on financing secondary expansion at IIEP (UNESCO), with the Secondary Education in Africa programme of the World Bank and in DFID advisor's retreats made a substantial contribution to shifting the emphasis to more balanced patterns of investment consistent with what many recipients of development assistance had long argued was needed.\n\nThe Multi Site Teacher Education research Programme, which Lewin co-directed, remains one of the few cross national studies of initial teacher education with an African focus. It explored in depth what happens to trainees before, during and after training in traditional college based programs and in more innovative distance delivery training. It provided a grounded insight into teacher education curricula and practicums and identified many aspects of more and less effective practice. In particular it drew attention to the importance of matching the duration and costs of training with likely career futures and the \"half life of a trained teacher\". In high turnover systems long periods of residential pre-career training often favoured by teacher educators can be very expensive and inefficient if many graduates do not become career teachers. Lewin showed it is better to rebalance investment between initial training and continuous professional development which delivers more training \"just in time\" to those who need it when they need it.\n\nLewin's work in the CREATE consortium, with its extensive network of partners, has made a significant contribution to redefining policy dialogue around access, equity and learning outcomes. The \"Zones of Exclusion\" approach, developed within CREATE, has been used widely to unpack different aspects of exclusion and inclusion and has been used by DFID, AusAid, UNICEF, ADEA, UNESCO, and the World Bank. The \"expanded vision of access\" which includes enrolment and progression on schedule, high levels of attendance and time on task, and learning achievement consistent with grades, redefines access and is a reminder that it is not 65 million children who have no access to basic education as may be true in enrolment terms, but over 200 million who are unlikely to complete basic education successfully.\n\nIts insights into the extent and consequences of over-age enrolment, which is endemic in many parts of Sub Saharan Africa and South Asia, are critical to the achievement of universal access – through to successful completion of – basic education, especially for girls. The findings illustrate how increased participation as a result of massive investments in Education for All programs have yet to provide as much benefit to the poorest as the middle poor. It also lead to confirmations that relate to the role of the state as \"the provider of last resort\" to the poorest, which provides a counterpoint to the arguments of those who believe that the role of the state in providing public goods like basic education to the poorest can and should be reduced. The country research reports of CREATE have all been launched at national level meetings attended by Ministers and development partners.\n\nLewin's work on indicators of progress has also been influential. His work provides insights into the issue that surround the distance between \"target setters and target getters\" and the risks that performance targeting leads to \"gaming\" the systems used to evaluate outcomes. It also highlights the \"moral hazards\" embedded in systems that reward progress by withdrawing support when goals are achieved, and the difficulties when performance asymptotically approaches a limit. He also highlights the difficulties of interpreting composite indices, such as Gross enrolment rates (GERs), net enrolment rates (NERS), gender parity indices (GPIs), and Education Development Indices (EDI), when changes in values in the same direction could indicate improvement or deterioration in performance.\n\nLewin has been the author of numerous books, journal articles and reports on education and development. These include works on educational innovation in developing countries, educational planning and finance, science education and development, access to basic education, non-state providers of education, and teacher education.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21255249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21255249", "title": "Konstantina Kouneva", "text": "Konstantina Kouneva\n\nKonstantina Kouneva (, born 28 September 1964), also known as Kostadinka Kuneva (), is a Bulgarian immigrant in Greece, trade unionist and secretary of the Greek Trade Union of Cleaners and Housekeepers. She was elected as a MEP in the 2014 European Parliament elections.\n\nKouneva was working as a cleaner for the Oikomet company (providing services to ISAP, among other clients, through outsourcing). She was attacked with sulfuric acid (vitriol) on 22 December 2008 and made to swallow it; she lost the sight in one eye and suffered internal organ damage as a result of the attack an event which sparked protests and clashes with the Greek police during 2008 civil unrest in Greece.\n\nThe protests, which included banners reading \"Konstandinka, you're not alone\", continued at least until 22 January 2009 and numbering 3,000 people, with tear gas being used by the MAT police forces.\n\nThe attack was described as the most severe assault on a trade unionist in Greece in 50 years.\n\nKouneva graduated from the St. Cyril and St. Methodius University of Veliko Tarnovo with a degree in History.\n\nShe was elected to the European Parliament as a candidate of the left-wing SYRIZA party in the European Parliament election held on 25 May 2014.\n"}
{"id": "58002029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58002029", "title": "Larisa Akrofie", "text": "Larisa Akrofie\n\nLarisa Akrofie is the Editor-in-Chief of Levers in Heels, a digital platform highlighting rising African women in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics.\n\nLarisa attended Achimota School for her secondary education. She is an alumna of the University of Ghana where she received her bachelor's degree in Biomedical Engineering. \n\nLevers in Heels has achieved international acclaim with features on platforms such as NPR's Goats and Soda blog, UTD Mercury, Face2Face Africa and She Leads Africa.\n"}
{"id": "17025522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17025522", "title": "List of Big Brother (Australian TV series) season 8 housemates", "text": "List of Big Brother (Australian TV series) season 8 housemates\n\nThe following is a list of housemates who were contestants on 2008's Australian \"Big Brother\":\n\nAlice Redwood (born ) is a veterinary surgeon from Bendigo, Victoria and has a private school background. In week 3, former Head of Household Rebecca was evicted and chose Alice to replace her as HOH. In the following week, Alice became HOH again after winning the fourth \"Friday Night Live\". Alice was up for eviction seven times, five consecutively – the most out of any housemate that year. Alice was saved four times out of the seven times she has faced eviction. In week 4, Alice saved herself with the power she held from being HOH. Alice was then saved the following week by Travis, the HOH that week. In week 6, Dixie held a Hand Grenade that enabled her to save one Housemate from getting evicted. She chose Alice. Finally, she was saved by Ed in week 10. On Day 84 she was evicted in a double eviction. However, there is some speculation whether Alice came fifth or fourth place as she was evicted in the Double Eviction on Sunday 20 July 2008 before fellow housemate Travis. Travis actually got more evict votes than Alice.\n\nCraig \"Barney\" Barnett was a 33-year-old Surf Life Saver, model and ex-national level swimmer from Western Australia. He is one of three people who received the most votes from the Australian public in an online video audition. He entered the house on Day 7 as the third most voted person online, but was evicted by Terri on Day 10 during a snap eviction. Barney was also a contestant on the Channel 9 gameshow \"1 Versus 100\", where he won $108,500. In 2008, Barney was a top 50 national finalist in Cleo Bachelor of the Year. He was also crowned Mr Australia in the 2006 Manhunt Australia national final and went on to finish third runner up in the Manhunt International 2007 World Final. He is a friend of former \"Big Brother\" contestant Bodie.\n\nBen McCallum was a 19-year-old law student from Western Australia. In an attempt to irritate Big Brother, throwing a ball at the wall of the Big Brother house, Ben accidentally broke a part of a water tank and lost 4,000 litres of water. He then had to bathe himself using a bucket and sponge until further notice. He was then banished to the kombi van in the backyard, which lasted for a week.\n\nBianca Benigno was an 18-year-old university student from Queensland. She is described as \"bitch, brains and boobs\", (due to her large breasts). She claims to be intellectual and likes to read books. She says the most important thing in her life is passion. She is well remembered for her short temper and elitist attitude. On Day 29, Bianca was given the fourth Hand Grenade from David after his eviction on the previous day. Because of this, she was made the night watchman of the Big Brother House. But as the HOH, Brigitte reversed Bianca's Hand Grenade, a prize that was given to the Housemates through the vending machine, in week 9.\n\nOne day in the Kombi, Renee talked to Bianca about her boobs and how she should have a breast reduction if it concerned her so much. Bianca thought it was a personal issue and argued with Renee, which almost turned into a physical fight. Later, Big Brother gave them both a strike, resulting in Bianca receiving her 2nd strike. Rima's task was to tell the Housemates that there was a mole when there was not. When Bianca found out, she reacted strongly and angrily, and swore and threw Terri's washing. Bianca did not win a \"Friday Night Live\", but was runner up twice.\n\nBrigitte Stavaruk (born 31 March 1989) is a 19-year-old waitress from Canberra. Her interests include photography, shopping, dressing up and having fun. She claims to be unable to sleep without her stuffed unicorn , Princess Sparkles. Bridgette won her first \"Friday Night Live\" in week 8. After Saxon's eviction, he was able to throw the second Hand Grenade (the first being Terri's Hand Grenade) to the Housemate of his choice. With this Hand Grenade, the person of his choice would have all of their possessions be taken away.\n\nSaxon chose Brigitte to receive it. Similarly, Renee was able to throw a Hand Grenade of her own after she was evicted in week 6. Brigitte started crying and had somewhat of a meltdown when she received the news that all her possessions would be taken away. With her Hand Grenade, Renee chose one person to not receive a message from home while the rest of the Housemates would. She chose Brigitte. However, during her 21st birthday party, Brigitte was able to watch a video message from home on a big screen TV and got Princess Sparkles back as a birthday present from Big Brother. Towards the end of the series, Brigitte became involved with housemate Cherry. This caused a minor controversy as Brigitte had previously made several references to having a boyfriend Eric Tatarelli, during the show. Eric, however, told the \"Daily Telegraph\" that it was a \"casual relationship\".\n\nIn week 9, Brigitte was able to reverse the Hand Grenade Saxon gave to her as one of the prizes in the vending machine. Brigitte was evicted in a mid-week snap eviction on Day 73, with 29.7% of the public evict votes. Her consistent popularity on the official site's weekly poll made her eviction the most surprising of the series. Currently, Brigitte is in the process of filming her own reality show called \"The Harbor\" to air sometime in 2009. The show will follow Brigitte as she goes along her daily life, after Big Brother, modeling for Zoo magazine, looking for a job and living the party lifestyle. Brigitte's show has been picked up by channel 10, and was set to premiere in 2009.\n\nEd Cherry, known by his last name, Cherry, is a 22-year-old marketing student from Gold Coast, Queensland. The producers have said that he was once a professional surfer and that he represented Queensland in rugby. He entered the House as an intruder on Day 35. Cherry was thrown a Hand Grenade from Rhianna after she was evicted in week 7. He was then in charge of cleaning the dishes and the toilets. In week 9, Cherry had his Grenade reversed by Brigitte, when she bought the power to reverse it in the vending machine.\n\nDavid Tchappat (born ) is a firefighter from New South Wales and is a former member of the Exclusive Brethren. His parents are still members and he has had no contact with them for a considerable period of time. He celebrated his 33rd birthday on the first episode of \"Friday Night Live\", which aired on 2 May 2008. David was evicted on Day 28 in a double eviction (14/39 points). David also 'told all' about his life in the Exclusive Brethren on \"A Current Affair\" in June 2008. He also released a book called 'Breakout- How I escaped from the Exclusive Brethren', detailing his many attempts to escape the Brethren.\n\nDixie Crawford is a 21-year-old mental health worker from Dubbo, New South Wales, who did her higher schooling in Broken Hill. She was the second Housemate to be revealed to be entering the house during \"Bondi Rescue\", six days before launch night. She grew up on the outskirts of an Aboriginal mission. She is currently a student and is working in remote Aboriginal communities as a mental health worker. She describes herself as obnoxious, rude and arrogant and cries whenever she hears \"Advance Australia Fair\".\n\nOn Day 22, Dixie received the third Hand Grenade from Rebecca, who was evicted on the previous day. Dixie was required to do everybody's laundry up until she was evicted from the House. This resulted in a comedic moment where Big Brother called her in for complaining, at which point she used the size of her boobs to help explain why it was so difficult for her. She then proceeded to misinterpret Big Brother telling her that this did not exclude her from manual labour as simply not caring. Bianca was immediately called in after Dixie complained about him to her, and was told that he was misquoted, causing an argument. Dixie was evicted on Day 35 (14/33 points). Since her eviction, she has been appointed as the host of a new breakfast radio show in Broken Hill on Hypefm.\n\nMichael Crafter is a 27-year-old desmond from Victoria. He received the most votes from the Australian public during an online audition. He entered the House on Day 7 during a special edition of the show, but was evicted by Terri on Day 10 during a snap eviction. Michael is the ex-lead singer of Australian metalcore band I Killed the Prom Queen. Due to the \"Say Goodbye\" Tour, Crafter had to leave within a week to take part in I Killed The Prom Queens tour.\n\nNathan Strempel is a 27-year-old physiotherapist from South Australia. He is one of three people who received the most votes from the Australian public in an online audition. He entered the House on Sunday, 4 May 2008 during a special edition of the show. During a snap eviction on Day 10, Terri chose Nathan to stay in the house while Michael and Barney, the other two top vote-getters on the online audition, were evicted. Nathan won the second \"Friday Night Live\", but because he was exempt from being nominated at that time, he was not able to become the Head of Household. Nathan was evicted on Day 28 in a double eviction (18/39 points).\n\nNobuyuki Tanaka, nicknamed \"Nobbi\" is a 21-year-old commerce student from Victoria of Japanese heritage. He thinks of himself as insane and an attention seeker. He is a high achiever in sports and music. He is also a keen poker player. He also had a cameo in the Australian movie, 'You and Your Stupid Mate'. On Day 1, Terri banished Nobbi from the main House after her eviction, forcing him to stay in the backyard and in the kombi van in the garden until further notice by Big Brother. He subsequently stayed in the kombi and in the backyard through the entirety of his time in the House, despite his numerous requests for the \"banishment\" to end.\n\nThroughout the series, Nobbi frequently pushed the boundaries of 'acceptable' conduct on a family TV show, and was the first contestant on Big Brother Australia to strip off his swimshorts in the outdoors public shower to wash totally naked in front of other contestants on several occasions. When the much older contestant Terri objected to his behaviour, he protested that she was prejudiced against seeing an Asian guy's penis. After he made several brief reveals of part of his pubic hair and the top of his private parts at the outdoor shower, he was then shown live on TV pulling his shower shorts right off, fully revealing his penis and testicles to TV viewers and other contestants. He said he had also proved that \"not all Asian guys have a small dick\". He was the first winner of \"Friday Night Live\" and won A$20,000, but because he broke the rules by entering the house, Big Brother punished him by giving him Z$20,000 instead, which is equivalent to A$1. Nobbi went on to win two more \"FNL\"s in weeks 7 and 8 and became the Head of Household in the same weeks.\n\nNobbi was the subject of three notable events prior to his eviction. On Day 35, a drunk Nobbi claimed that fellow Housemate Terri \"rubs herself in the toilet,\" implying that she likes to masturbate. Terri found his comment offensive, which led to the two to having a disagreement about how offensive it is to make jokes concerning masturbating. On Day 39, the Housemates played a usual game of Truth or Dare? in the spa. During this time, Nobbi asked Travis which Housemate he considered his least favourite. Travis chose Alice as his least favourite. After this incident, Alice and Travis were soon crying, and many viewers saw Nobbi as a manipulator. This event led to the audience booing Nobbi after he won \"Friday Night Live\" in week 7. Nobbi was evicted from the House on Day 56 with 59.1% of the votes.\n\nRebecca Morgan is a 23-year-old waitress and promotional model from Western Australia. She calls herself a \"daddy's girl\" and is a clean freak with an interest in monkeys. She enjoys keeping fit. Rebecca celebrated her birthday on Day 17, after she won the third \"Friday Night Live\". Rebecca was evicted on Day 21 after receiving 22 out of 42 points. Because she was the Head of Household when she was evicted, she had to choose one person to replace her. Rebecca gave the power to Alice. Since leaving the house she has joined \"Zoo\" magazine.\n\nRenee Black (born 1 July 1985) is a 22-year-old abattoir worker from Dubbo, New South Wales. She is a tomboy and enjoys Rugby League. She won \"Friday Night Live\" in week 5, which made her the Head of Household for that week. Renee was the bookies favorite to win in beginning, but she was evicted on Day 42 after receiving 37.9% of the votes. A very heated altercation with Bianca during the week she was up for eviction is widely believed to be responsible for the public voting her out. Although she was evicted from the House, she says she still enjoys watching \"Big Brother\". Since leaving the house she participated in a photo shoot for \"Zoo\" magazine with other housemate Rebecca.\n\nRhianna Baxter (born 28 November 1982) is a 25-year-old financial worker from New South Wales. She has a 7-year-old daughter named Mia which she claims she conceived at her year 12 formal, and said that she has never had a long term boyfriend. She has also crashed her car \"a million times.\" Rhianna entered the House on Day 35 as an intruder and quickly became attracted to fellow housemate Rory. She was evicted from the House on Day 49 with 37.7% of the votes from the public.\n\nRima Hadchiti is a 25-year-old belly dancer from Victoria. She is only one metre tall but she quotes herself as having a big personality. Her video package was released on 3 before it was released on television. It was revealed Rima and Saxon were going to be housemates during a broadcast of \"So You Think You Can Dance Australia\".\n\nIt was announced that Rima had been forced to leave \"Big Brother\" on 3 May 2008 after an accident on an episode of \"Friday Night Live\" caused her to break her leg. A statement released by Network Ten on the matter said: \n\"During the first \"Friday Night Live\" games, an accident occurred where Rima fell during one of the challenges and as a result was taken straight to hospital following treatment by the Big Brother medical team. X-rays revealed Rima has broken her leg and is expected to take several weeks to recover.\" Rima re-entered the House on Day 63 as a House Guest. She was given a secret mission to tell the housemates that there was a mole among them when in reality, there actually was not. Rima exited the House on Day 66, only spending a total of four days during her second visit.\n\nRory Ammon (born ) was an apprentice bricklayer from Geelong, Victoria. He is loud, struggles with being told to do tasks by others and is anti-religious. One of his goals is to tour Australia “pub by pub”. Rory developed a relationship with fellow housemate Rhianna within the 2 weeks she was in the House. After the mid-week snap eviction, Brigitte, the evictee gave her Hand Grenade to Rory. He can now only eat basic food for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Rory was one of the two finalists for Big Brother 2008, and became the runner-up for the final series. After the show, Rory was banned from all Geelong pubs for three months, due to an incident.\n\nSaxon Pepper was a 22-year-old truck driver and doorman from South Australia. It was revealed Saxon and Rima were going to be Housemates during a broadcast of \"So You Think You Can Dance\". He is covered in tattoos and confesses to having a sheltered life. He also has a strong passion for conspiracy theories, the paranormal and bigotry. Saxon was evicted on Day 14 (16/39 points).\n\nTerrence Hardie was a 51-year-old real estate auctioneer from Perth, Western Australia. He says he's an old fashioned gentleman who doesn't understand the need for bad manners or bad language. He's a strict father who won't let his sons (17, 14 and 12) drink or smoke. Terrence is a great believer in teaching the value of money. He entered the House on Day 35, as an intruder. Terrence was evicted on Day 63 with 41.7% of the votes.\n\nTerri Munro was a 52-year-old shelf filler of 25 years for Coles in Richmond, New South Wales. It was first revealed Terri would be a Housemate during the broadcast of \"So You Think You Can Dance\" one week before launch night. She idolizes Pauline Hanson and dislikes immigrants, claiming that they \"bring a lot of problems with them and now we are paying the price.\" She believes that religion is the root of all evil and says that she is outspoken, opinionated and loud.\n\nOn the dawn of 29 April, Terri was evicted during a snap eviction after receiving four votes. However, days after, Big Brother invited her back into the diary room and offered her an unknown task. This task was to re-enter the house as a House Guest, with the mission of acting as a guardian to underaged House Guest Corey Worthington. Terri failed this task, but a new task of evicting two Housemates during a snap eviction was given to her after Corey declined the same task. Terri completed this task successfully, and she was then re-instated as a Housemate.\n\nOn Day 57, Nobbi, who was evicted the day before, gave Terri and Terrence his Hand Grenade. The two were to stay in the Kombi van until further notice, though they could each go into the house for a limited time to take a shower due to the cold weather. Terrence was evicted a week later, and as his Hand Grenade, he was able to reverse the Hand Grenade that Nobbi gave to Terri, allowing her to live in the House again. On Day 85 Terri was announced the winner of Big Brother 2008 and the final series of Big Brother on Channel 10. She walked away with $250,000 making her the oldest, and third female winner of the programme.\n\nTravis Keyser is a 21-year-old marketing coordinator from Liverpool, New South Wales. It was first revealed Travis would be a Housemate during a broadcast of \"The Biggest Loser\". He is known to have a high pitched voice, which he states is his biggest asset. He owns a horse named Thunder, which he claims is his best friend. He is a Christian and his Bible is his treasured possession.\n\nOn Day 29, the newly evicted Nathan handed the fifth Hand Grenade to Travis. He is required to get up from bed before everyone else and serve Big Brother his breakfast every morning. Travis was the victim of bullying, by some of the other male housemates. On Day 33, Travis was rushed to hospital after Ben sprayed body wash into his eyes as a prank that went wrong. Travis returned to the House on Day 35. On Day 84 he was evicted in a double eviction with Alice. Travis currently resides in Broken Hill, a small town in western NSW. Travis works for a local radio station as a Radio Announcer.\n\nCorey Worthington was a 17-year-old from Narre Warren, Victoria. He gained publicity before entering by throwing a massive party in which over 500 people turned up at. He entered the house on Day 7 along with Terri and was given the task of evicting two of the Gatecrashers (Nathan, Michael and Barney)to become an official housemate, but declined the task. During his short time as a guest,he was involved in an intense argument with Bianca about the ways of his youth. Corey left the House on Day 19. After Big Brother, Corey's party was the plot for the movie \"Project X\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17850371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17850371", "title": "List of Big Brother 9 housemates (UK)", "text": "List of Big Brother 9 housemates (UK)\n\nThe following is a list of housemates from the ninth series of \"Big Brother UK\".\n\nAlexandra Justine \"Alex\" De-Gale (born 4 August 1984) is an accounts clerk from Croydon, South London. Alexandra is a single mother who became pregnant when she was 15 years old; she has a daughter. She was raised as a Christian but converted to Islam. Alexandra describes herself as quirky, outgoing and a go-getter, and hates to be bored. In an interview that aired during the launch show, she told Big Brother that \"I am not an It girl, I am 'it'.\" At Mario and Stephanie's \"wedding\" in week one, Alexandra was the only housemate to object, having correctly identified the marriage as a sham. She created a large amount of controversy owing to her aggressive nature and was accused of bullying. She very quickly became the least popular housemate among viewers and during the first eviction night many of the crowd were chanting \"Get Alex out!\" despite not even being up for the public vote. She was ejected on day 14, not as a result of a public vote but because of the producers and Channel 4 deciding her behaviour had been unacceptable. After being nominated, she apparently threatened fellow housemates, saying: \"I'm not throwing water at anyone. It's bigger than that... personal offence is never forgotten, do you know what I mean? We are just inside the house. I've got a very, very, very, very, very strong team outside the house. I just can't wait to see my mans and them and see what their plans are, who they got... I'm not talking about those mans, I'm talking about my gangster friends. They got some instructions to follow out.\" Neither she nor Dennis were allowed to appear on the final night with the rest of the housemates. As of 2013, Alexandra is pursuing a LLB (Hons) Degree at the University of Greenwich.\n\nBelinda Harris-Reid (born 7 April 1964) is a theatre director from Exeter, Devon. Belinda is married with two sons. She was born in Kampala, Uganda but moved to Malawi before she was one year old, where her father founded the Chancellor College, University of Malawi. She lived in East Africa until the age of 11. Belinda loves jazz singing and being by the sea. Belinda was the fifth housemate to be evicted on Day 44 with 65% of the public vote, after just two weeks of being in the house. During Belinda's eviction, filming took place for the E4 horror series Dead Set.\n\nDale Howard (born 30 October 1986) is a student from St Helens, Merseyside. Although he is a physical education trainee teacher at Liverpool John Moores University, Dale says that he would rather play football and has unsuccessfully tried out for Manchester United and Wigan Athletic. He says he wouldn't dream of being a PE teacher, and that he hates kids. He is described by his friends and family as mostly arrogant, bigheaded and overconfident. In his audition Dale bragged, \"If there's any fanny in there, I'm gonna nail it. Especially if they're fit!\" On Sunday 20 July, he succeeded Darnell as the second Head of House after his success in a task that took place to compete for the title. Dale became the eighth housemate to be evicted on Day 65 with 63% of the vote. Dale is now producing deep house music & DJ-ing internationally and is associated with other DJ's such as 40four.\n\nDarnell Earl Swallow (born 23 September 1981) is a rapper with albinism. He was born in Ipswich, Suffolk, but grew up in St. Louis, Missouri, United States. He was elected as the first Head of House on Day 39. Darnell finished the series in fifth place with 14.9% of the public vote. Darnell has made his way back into the papers by appearing in a hardcore pornography series called \"What Billi Did Next\" alongside former housemates Billi Bhatti, Rebecca Shiner and Samanda. According to the film's makers Red Hot TV (UK) Darnell gets \"his end away with an 18 year old stripper\".\n\nDennis McHugh (born 1984) is a dance teacher from Edinburgh. Dennis says if he could make any law, it would be that everyone must wear fake tan, and his dream job is to be a dancer and then perhaps a personal shopper.\nHe is obsessed with dancing and describes himself as an \"extreme character\". In a pre-launch show interview with Big Brother, he said \"If someone called me fat, I'd manipulate the little weirdo until they thought they were fat.\" He would most like to invite Hitler, Mother Theresa and Judy Garland to a dinner party and says that he would never go out with anyone better looking than him. On Day 23, Dennis was ejected from the Big Brother House for spitting in Mohamed's face during a row. Neither he nor Alexandra were allowed to appear on the final night with the rest of the housemates.\n\nJennifer 'Jen' Clark (born 19 March 1986) is a model from Chester-le-Street, County Durham. She says being the mother of her 22-month-old daughter Maddy has made her the proudest person in the world and has conservative views on abortion, meat-eating, smoking, immigration, gay marriage and naked glamour modelling. Although she feels really old Jennifer says she is opinionated, ruthless and ambitious and claims that she wouldn't enter Big Brother if she didn't think she could win. She was raised a Catholic and states that she hates people who spit.\n\nSince Big Brother, Jennifer has had numerous magazine interviews, including Heat in which she admitted her feelings for Dale. Despite her earlier assertions, she has appeared topless for Nuts magazine.\n\nKathreya 'Kat' Kasisopa (born 1977) is a Thai massage therapist from Thailand but now lives in Welling, South East London. She relocated from Bangkok to the United Kingdom in 2001 and she has an obsession with cookies. Kathreya says she’s addicted to them and she carries a cookie jar with her wherever she goes. Kathreya is a Buddhist, believes strongly in karma, and will do anything to avoid an argument. She loves wearing bright clothing, and wears platform boots at all times to give her extra height as she is only tall. She loves Techno music. She is scared of the dark. She wants to be reincarnated as a Pokémon. She says her best feature is her mouth, as it never stops smiling. She was engaged at the time of the show, and has subsequently married.\n\nOn Day 90, Kathreya was the 13th person to be evicted from the house after receiving 4.9% of the public vote to win, and finished in sixth place. Kathreya appeared in pantomime at Leicester Square Theatre's Basement theatre in 2009.\n\nLisa Appleton (born 23 May 1968) is a tanning sales rep from Warrington, Cheshire. She is also involved in charity fund-raising. Lisa is a former bodybuilder, a fitness and health fanatic and has an 18-year-old daughter. She once appeared on \"Gladiators\" as a contestant. She believes in reincarnation, life after death, clairvoyants, ghosts, spirit guides, and universal dynamics.\nOn Day 1, along with Mario, Stephanie, and Luke, Lisa was given a secret mission to hide her relationship with fellow housemate Mario; failure to do so would result in automatic nomination. On Day 4, the housemates discovered her relationship and Mario and Lisa were subsequently nominated for failing the task. On Day 84 Sara and Lisa played the prisoner's dilemma and shared £50,000.\n\nIn February 2009, Lisa received minor local press attention after she and fiancé Mario found a Pecan Weevil in a bowl of Kellogs' \"Crunchy Nut Cornflakes\"\n\nIn the television documentary in 2016 \"On Benefits: Living the High Life\" it was said that Lisa had separated from Mario and was now living a single life in a one bedroom rented flat.\n\nLuke Christian Thomas Marsden (born 16 July 1987) was a student at the University of Salford. Luke loves wrestling and has worked in the North West wrestling scene as a ring announcer, manager and referee. He doesn’t smoke, use drugs or swear, and says a typical weekend night out would be wrestling, Pizza Hut, bowling or the cinema. While in the Big Brother house, Luke celebrated his 21st Birthday. In week 1, as the housemates discovered Mario and Lisa's relationship, Luke was up for eviction for failing the wedding task. Luke became the seventh housemate to be evicted on Day 58 with 37% of the public vote.\n\nSince leaving, Luke continued his relationship with fellow housemate Rebecca but have now split up after 18 months together. On 8 January 2010 Luke made his radio broadcasting début on local station Bolton FM, Luke hosted \"The Luke Marsden Show\" an entertainment show in which he interviewed a different celebrity guest each week, Luke ended the show in February 2012. Luke mentioned on his official website that he intends to run for political office as a Council candidate in his hometown of Wigan, he has yet to announce when he will run and for what party. Luke wrote a weekly TV Column for Star Magazine which ran from Jan 2011-August 2011. He was also a regular contributor to Hywel and Jamie's radio show's on 97.4 Rock FM & Key 103 from 2010-2015. Luke began presenting his own show on Sunday nights on 97.4 Rock FM in September 2012 – 2015 In May 2013, Luke was the runner-up for the Sony Radio Academy's inaugural \"Golden Headphones Award\" narrowly losing to Radio One presenters Dan and Phil.\nIn June 2015 Luke joined local radio station WishFM where he co-hosts a Saturday morning breakfast show. In Feb 2016 he began co-hosting the Luke and Lucy FM podcast.\n\nShaun Astbury (born 9 June 1965), aka Mario Marconi, is a civil servant from Widnes, Cheshire and was formerly a tagging officer for the Home Office, and a post office manager in Liverpool. He was christened Shaun but changed his name to Mario to suit his image. He has previously appeared on various reality TV shows including \"Brits Behind Bars\", \"Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway\" and BBC Two's \"Kitchen Criminals\" (with current wife Lisa).\n\nMario entered the house on Day 1 with Lisa; they were the first housemates to enter the House this series. Mario was nominated in Week 1 because he failed his task to hide his relationship with fellow housemate Lisa.\n\nHe appeared with the coat of cash on \"The Sunday Night Project\" and appeared on Big Brother's Little Brother after the show.\n\nIn February 2009, Mario received minor local press attention after he and fiancé Lisa found a Pecan Weevil in a bowl of Kellogs' \"Crunchy Nut Cornflakes\"\nIn October 2010, Mario and Lisa got married on The Wedding House.\n\nMaysoon Shaladi is an actress, model and TV presenter from London who lives in Hertfordshire. Her career has moved from strength to strength following her appearance on Big Brother and now currently a Bollywood film actress and Item girl. During her career she has also been voted most popular video vixen and has appeared in music videos for Sean Paul, Melanie C, Jay Sean, Ludacris and Simon Webbe. Other credits in her career include being the face of the Lynx commercials in 2008 and she has featured in campaigns for the Sony PlayStation and Apple iPod. She presented a national talent contest called UK Unsigned. Maysoon is fluent in Arabic and said she went into the Big Brother House to try to change model stereotypes.\n\nMichael 'Mikey' Hughes (born 1974) was appointed Head of House on Day 66. He finished the series in second place with 48.7% of the public vote. Michael's stint in the house was famous for the fact that he entered the game environment with blindness, having lost his sight ten years beforehand.\n\nHe has since continued in his role as a producer/presenter with Insight Radio. He ran as an independent in the 2009 Glasgow North East by-election receiving 54 votes.\n\nMohamed 'Mo' Mohamed (born 16 June 1984) is a student in MMCC who now lives in London. Mohamed was born in Somalia and then moved to Kenya, Yemen, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Dubai before moving to the UK with his family and 12 brothers and sisters.\n\nMohamed became Head of House on Week 12 and was guaranteed a place in the final week. On Day 90 Mohamed was the twelfth person to be evicted from the house, finishing seventh with the lowest percentage of the vote to win, 1.8%, in the final week.\n\nNicole Cammack (born 28 November 1988), entered the house on Day 58 and is a student from Surrey, as well as Rex's girlfriend. Nicole had previously been in the task room the week before becoming a housemate, as part of the Cops and Robbers shopping task. She was in a line-up of actors with Mohamed's brother. Lisa and Luke had to identify Rex's girlfriend, however they failed to identify Nicole and instead chose suspect number 6. Nicole entered the house as the last of the 57 special prizes housemates ordered on their weekly shopping list. On her first night in the house, Nicole crossed the divide and was subsequently punished by Big Brother who withheld her suitcase until the following week, when it was bought by Head of House Rachel at a cost of £20.\n\nNicole was the tenth housemate to be evicted on Day 79 with 94.04% of the vote, the highest eviction percentage in Big Brother UK history, and the third highest in the world, behind Aline from Big Brother Brazil 5 and Big Brother Spain 11's Nagore with a joint 95% of votes (to evict).\n\nRachel Rice (born 7 March 1984) is a trainee teacher from Torfaen in Wales. She took part in around 20 television commercials globally - including the Sony Handicam's 'Fairies at the Bottom of the Garden' in 1991 - until she secured her first film role in \"Night Train to Venice\" with Hugh Grant in 1992. She is a devout Catholic. She owns five cats. Four weeks prior to appearing in the show Rice had been on a placement teaching English and drama at Caerleon Comprehensive School. The last colleagues heard of her was when she went sick with a mystery virus.\n\nOn Day 59 she completed the Alphabet task to become Head of House, making her the only female to hold this title.\n\nRachel was the 2008 series winner with 51.3% of the public vote.\n\nRebecca 'Bex' Shiner (born 22 April 1987) is a nursery nurse from Coventry, West Midlands. She is fond of many former boy bands, especially the American group Hanson. An ex-pal said Hanson’s bosses threatened to take out a restraining order after she camped outside their hotels and called their rooms. She was also arrested and taken to the police station for 12 hours when found sleeping on a park bench, following V to Disneyland.\nUpon entering the house on Day 1, Rebecca screamed and gasped, to the concern of the other housemates. Rebecca was the sixth housemate to be evicted on Day 51 with 65.4% of the public vote. She is now a regular on Television X's sex channels.\n\nRex Clayton Newmark (born 6 January 1984) is a chef from Hampstead, London. Rex comes from a family of restaurateurs and is a head chef at a family restaurant. He claims that his proudest moment was winning a culinary challenge in college. His 19-year-old girlfriend Nicole Cammack entered the house on Day 58. He received the most nominations this series being voted a total of 29 times by his fellow housemates. This at the time was the highest number of nominations until Marcus in Big Brother 10 gained 46 nominations. He also was dating other fellow housemate Nicole. Rex finished the series in fourth place with 22.5% of the public vote.\n\nRex appeared in Big Brother 2009 (UK) as part of the tenth anniversary celebrations, he competed against contestant Marcus Akin in a task set in Rex's edition of the show. On 4 September 2010, Rex took part Ultimate Big Brother in the \"Enjoy the Silence Task\", where he had to taunt UBB contestants whilst they completed mini challenges.\n\nSara Lorraine Folino (born 26 January 1981) is a personal assistant from London. She had a rural upbringing in Melbourne, Australia, but was granted the right to move to London in 2003, because of her Scottish grandmother and her English mother. Sara, a self-described Angelina Jolie lookalike, used to work in a bank, but now works for MTV. Sara says she has a twin brother who is five minutes her junior, but she hasn't seen him since her Italian father kicked her out of the family home when she was 15 years old. She said: \"I don't really know what he looks like because I've not been home for five and a half years. I don't really see my family because my dad kicked me out of the house so there's a bit of bad blood there. I do like eating burgers and running on the beach, and something I lay in so I don't need to get up.\" On Day 84 Sara and Lisa played the prisoner's dilemma and shared £50,000. Sara finished the series in third place with 30.1% of the public vote.\n\nStephanie \"Steph\" Jo McMichael (born 1989) is a student from Calderstones, Liverpool. In 2002, Stephanie was disqualified from \",\" the show that created Girls Aloud and One True Voice, for being too young. On Day 1, along with fellow housemates Mario, Lisa, and Luke, Stephanie was given a secret mission to hide the relationship between housemates Mario and Lisa; as part of this task she was required to pretend to be Mario's girlfriend. Failure to complete this mission successfully would result in an automatic nomination of not only her, but also Mario, Lisa, and Luke. In her role, she was required to marry Mario thinking that it was a genuine wedding; unbeknownst to her, the marriage was not actually real. Stephanie did not get on well with Mario, which resulted in several arguments between the two of them, one of which resulted in Mario calling Stephanie a haemorrhoid. Stephanie was nominated during Week 1 because the housemates discovered Mario and Lisa's relationship, failing in her task to hide it. She became the first housemate to be evicted on Day 9 with 48% of the public vote.\n\nIn 2012, Stephanie and her best friend Twinnie auditioned for the ninth series of \"The X Factor\" as duo Poisonous Twin. They made it as far as judges' houses, but did not make it through to the live shows.\n\nStuart Pilkington (born 1983) is a personal trainer turned property developer from Cheadle Hulme, Greater Manchester. Stuart entered the Big Brother house on Day 16, as a replacement for Alexandra. He says he doesn't support any political parties, thinks the world would be better off without religion, and would like to see the monarchy disbanded. Stuart was the ninth person to be evicted from the house on Day 72 with 59% of the public vote.\nIn August, 2010, Stuart took part in a task set out by Victor and Michelle in Ultimate Big Brother to become Nadia Almada's slave for the day.\n\nSylvia Barrie (born 31 August 1986) is a student at the University of Derby who fled to the United Kingdom from Sierra Leone when she was 11. She prays daily and attends church regularly. Sylvia was the second housemate to be evicted on Day 23 with 90.2% of the vote. Sylvia became the second black \"Sun\" \"Page 3\" girl in 2012 and her first feature was on 2 April 2012. This caused a lot of stir within the industry, as some \"Sun Page 3\" fans wrote racial remarks on Twitter. \nSylvia Barrie signed an exclusive contract with \"MJ Management\" who kick-started her modelling career.\n"}
{"id": "36965451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36965451", "title": "List of The X Factor finalists (Australia season 2)", "text": "List of The X Factor finalists (Australia season 2)\n\nThe second season of \"The X Factor Australia\" was broadcast on the Seven Network. It premiered on 30 August 2010 and ended on 22 November 2010. Each category was mentored by one of the show's four judges Guy Sebastian, Ronan Keating, Natalie Imbruglia and Kyle Sandilands. Sandilands mentored the Under 25 Boys, Imbruglia had the Under 25 Girls, Keating mentored the Over 25s and Sebastian was given the Groups. Altiyan Childs was declared the winner, with Keating emerging as the winning mentor.\n\nChris Doe was a contestant from Mornington Peninsula, Victoria, who sang Tonic's \"If You Could Only See\" at his audition. One of the reasons Doe turned up to audition for \"The X Factor\" was to try to find his father because Doe and his twin brother Peter never knew their father. He began performing at the age of 15 with schoolmates in a local band. Doe cited Green Day, Thirty Seconds to Mars and Nickelback as his musical inspirations.\n\nAndrew Lawson was a contestant from Noosa, Queensland, who sang Frank Sinatra's \"Fly Me to the Moon\" at his audition. Before entering \"The X Factor\", Lawson was a student at the Queensland Conservatorium of Music, where he studied a Bachelor of Music, but then decided to defer his course. Lawson was born in Northern Ireland but moved to New Zealand with his family at the age of six, before moving to Noosa in 2005. He began playing guitar at the age of seven and writes his own music. Lawson cited Elvis Presley, Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Willie Nelson and John Mayer as his musical inspirations. Lawson placed third in the competition.\n\nMitchell Smith was a contestant from Byron Bay, New South Wales. Before entering \"The X Factor\", Smith worked in a pizza shop on weekends. Smith comes from a musical family as his grandfather was a singer in a jazz band in Chicago. He cited John Mayer and Eminem as his musical inspirations.\n\nSally Chatfield was a contestant from Lakes Entrance, Victoria. Before entering \"The X Factor\", Chatfield was an apprentice hairdresser. She began singing at the age of seven, which helped her cope with the bullying she endured at school. Chatfield cited Jonny Craig as her musical influence and her family as her inspiration in life. She was the runner-up of the season.\n\nIndia-Rose Madderom was a contestant from Sydney, New South Wales who sang Joss Stone's version of \"Some Kind of Wonderful\" at her audition. Before entering \"The X Factor\", Madderom performed covers in pubs and worked as a waitress. She cited Beyoncé and Rihanna as her musical inspirations, and her mother as her main inspiration because she had always encouraged Madderom to sing and perform, despite knowing how tough the music industry is.\n\nHayley Teal was a contestant from Adelaide, South Australia, who sang Alicia Keys' version of \"How Come U Don't Call Me\" at her audition. Teal began performing at the age of 12. Before entering \"The X Factor\", she performed in various cover bands over the past few years. Teal cited Keyshia Cole, Eric Benét, Brian McKnight, Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey, Michael Jackson and Mary J. Blige as her musical inspirations.\n\nAltiyan Childs was a contestant from Sydney, New South Wales, whose first audition did not go so well, but the judges saw something in Childs and asked him to return the next day for another chance. Childs was born in Mount Isa, Queensland but grew up in Sydney. Childs formed his first band at the age of 12. After enjoying some success with the band Masonia, whose single \"Simple\" reached number 41 on the ARIA Singles Chart, Childs decided to retire from music. Before entering \"The X Factor\", he worked as a forklift driver. Childs' father encouraged him to audition for the show. He cited Prince as his musical inspiration. Childs was announced the winner of the season on 22 November 2010 and received a recording contract with Sony Music Australia.\n\nAmanda Grafanakis was a contestant from Melbourne, Victoria, who sang Lady Gaga's \"Bad Romance\" at her audition. Grafanakis was born in Tasmania and comes from a Greek background. She began writing songs at the age of eight and started singing lessons at the age of 12. Grafanakis initially turned up to \"The X Factor\" auditions to support a friend, but ended up deciding to have a go herself. She cited Michael Jackson as her musical inspiration.\n\nJames McNally was a contestant from Melbourne, Victoria. Before entering \"The X Factor\", McNally worked as a financial analyst during weekdays and often performed gigs on the weekends. At the age of 15, he began writing and recording songs. McNally grew up performing at Newton's High School for the Performing Arts. He spent time as part of the Schools Spectacular program and performed at NRL Grand Finals and the 2000 Sydney Olympics. McNally has also performed with Human Nature and Vanessa Amorosi. In 2008, he auditioned for \"Australian Idol\", but was not coping with his mother's illness and did not progress in the competition. McNally cited Tina Turner as his musical inspiration.\n\nKharizma was a duo from Ipswich, Queensland, which consisted of sisters Sonja and Soria. They were born in New Zealand but grew up in Ipswich. Kharizma cited Beyoncé, Keri Hilson and Mariah Carey as their musical influences.\n\nLuke and Joel was a duo from Newcastle, New South Wales, which consisted of brothers Luke and Joel. They both grew up backstage at music gigs, with their father working as a roadie for Australian artists Marcia Hines, Mondo Rock and Jon English. In 2008, Luke and Joel formed a local band called The Ondays. Before entering \"The X Factor\", Luke worked as a physiotherapist and Joel was a youth worker at an outreach program. Luke also put his wedding on hold after making it into the final 12. His fiancé Jessica auditioned for the show but did not make it through to the bootcamp round. Luke and Joel cited 42 and The Rolling Stones as their musical inspirations.\n\nMahogany was a four-member girl group from Southern Sydney, New South Wales, which consisted of sisters Maureen, Faye, Trina and Helen. They sang Boyz II Men's \"Thank You\" at their audition. In early 2010, Mahogany served as back up singers for one of Guy Sebastian's concerts. Before entering \"The X Factor\", Maureen and Faye were primary school teachers, Helen worked in retail and Trina was a case manager at NRMA. Mahogany cited Destiny's Child and The Jackson 5 as their musical influences, and Michael Jackson as their musical inspiration.\n"}
{"id": "79221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79221", "title": "List of biblical names starting with H", "text": "List of biblical names starting with H\n\n<br>\nA – B – C – D – E – F – G – H – I – J – K – L – M – N – O – P – Q – R – S – T – U – V – Y – Z\n\n\n"}
{"id": "96490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96490", "title": "Nganaoa", "text": "Nganaoa\n\nIn Cook Islands mythology (Aitutaki), Nganaoa is a hero in the story of Rata's canoe who killed three sea-monsters: a gigantic clam, a huge octopus, a finally a great whale in the stomach of which he found his father, Tairitokerau, and his mother Vāiaroa alive (Gill 1876:147).\n\n"}
{"id": "2829345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2829345", "title": "Nikola Gruevski", "text": "Nikola Gruevski\n\nNikola Gruevski ( ; ; born 31 August 1970) is a Macedonian politician. He served as Prime Minister of Macedonia from 27 August 2006 to 18 January 2016, and led the VMRO-DPMNE party from May 2003 until December 2017. He was Minister of Finance in the VMRO-DPMNE government led by Ljubčo Georgievski until September 2002.\n\nUnder the Pržino Agreement mediated by the European Union, Gruevski agreed to resign and left his post on 18 January 2016.\n\nIn May 2018, he was sentenced to two years in prison on corruption charges. In November 2018, he was ordered to serve his prison sentence but failed to check in with authorities, and instead fled to Hungary where he sought and was granted political asylum.\n\nBorn in Skopje in 1970, Gruevski was brought up in a family that was neither privileged nor poor. His father worked in furniture and design and his mother was a nurse. After his parents’ divorce, he was raised by his mother. At the age of four, however, she went to work in Libya, like thousands of other Yugoslav citizens, and took him with her. After their return Gruevski completed primary and secondary education in Skopje. Having graduated from the Faculty of Economics at St. Clement of Ohrid University of Bitola in 1994 (where he dabbled in amateur theatre and boxing) he entered the nascent finance sector, and was the first person to trade on Skopje's stock exchange. During 1995 he worked as director of department in Multigroup owned Balkanbank, and became its exhibitioner till 1998. In 1996 he also acquired qualifications for the international capital market from a London Securities Institute. Gruevski founded the Brokerage Association of Macedonia in 1998 and made the first transaction on the Macedonian Stock Exchange.\n\nOn 12 December 2006, he obtained a master's degree from the Faculty of Economics at Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje. \n\nGruevski divorced his first wife and married again in May 2007 to Borkica Gruevska with whom he has two daughters: Anastasija and Sofija.\n\nGruevski's paternal grandparents stem from the Ottoman Macedonia village of Krushoradi, where his grandfather Nikola Grouios (1911–1940) was born. Until the official Greek annexation after the Second Balkan War in 1913, it was under the jurisdiction of the Bulgarian Exarchate. The Greek administration later led assimilative anti-Bulgarian campaign, changing the names of the local villagers to the corresponding Greek names. The village itself was renamed by the Greek authorities to Achlada in 1926. Gruevski's grandfather fought in the Greco-Italian War, where he lost his life. His name is mentioned on the war memorial in Achlada among the names of the locals who were killed during World War II. Years later, during the Greek Civil War, Gruevski's grandmother and father fled north to what was then Yugoslav Macedonia, where they changed their family name to Gruevski in order to gain citizenship through assimilation, as was the Yugoslav policy at the time.\n\nGruevski's maternal grandfather - Mihail D. Miyalkov was a pro-Bulgarian activist and a member of Bulgarian club founded in Stip in November 1942, when the area was annexed by Bulgaria. His mother Nadezhda is also from Stip. She is the sister of the first Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Macedonia - Jordan Mijalkov. During the administration of Nikola Gruevski, his first cousin, Sašo Mijalkov was the director of the Administration for Security and Counterintelligence of the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nThe government under Ljubčo Georgievski sold the Macedonian Telecom to Hungarian Matáv and the OKTA oil refinery to Hellenic Petroleum. Gruevski also implemented financial reforms, including the reform of the payment system and the value added tax of 18%, requiring fiscal receipts for all Macedonian businesses, which was a program designed to fight tax evasion.\n\nGruevski is the leader of the nationalist ruling party VMRO-DPMNE. After VMRO-DPMNE was defeated in the 2002 parliamentary election, there was a period of infighting within the party. Gruevski emerged as the pro-EU leader, and he was elected as leader of the party after Ljubčo Georgievski left the position. The former prime minister set up his own party (VMRO-People's Party), but VMRO-DPMNE retained most of the party's supporters.\n\nThe VMRO-DPMNE won the July 2006 parliamentary election, and on 25 August 2006 he constituted the new government. His government had many new faces, mostly in their 30s, in key ministries and other positions. In the election Gruevski earned the distinction of becoming the first elected European head of government born in the 1970s.\n\nIn June 2007, Gruevski attended a meeting in Tirana, Albania, along with President of the United States George W. Bush, Prime Minister of Albania Sali Berisha, and Prime Minister of Croatia Ivo Sanader.\n\nThe coalition led by his party, VMRO-DPMNE, won the 1 June 2008 parliamentary election, their second electoral victory in a row, winning more than half of the seats in the parliament. The polling was marred by a number of violent incidents and allegations of fraud in some ethnic Albanian dominated municipalities. Gruevski created a government with the ethnic Albanian political party Democratic Union for Integration.\nThe coalition led by his party, VMRO-DPMNE, won the 5 June 2011 parliamentary election, their third electoral victory in a row, winning 56 out of the 123 seats in the parliament. Objections of misuse of state resources, including the blackmail of over one hundred thousand public servants to act as agitators were neglected, and the elections were declared valid. Gruevski formed the new government, again in coalition with the Democratic Union for Integration.\n\nOn 6 January 2012, Gruevski opened the triumphal arch \"Porta Macedonia\" in Skopje as a monument to 20th anniversary of Macedonian independence, and admitted that he personally has been the instigator of the Skopje 2014 project.\n\nOn 27 April 2014, VMRO-DPMNE won the parliamentary election, providing Gruevski another term as Prime Minister.\n\nIn May 2015, protests occurred in Skopje against the Gruevski and his government. Protests began following charges being brought up against Zoran Zaev, the opposition leader, who responded by alleging that Gruevski had 20,000 Macedonian officials and other figures wiretapped, and covered up the murder of a young man by a police officer in 2011. A major protest occurred on 5 May, seeing violent clashes between activists and police, with injuries on both sides. In the days afterward, the opposition claimed that more anti-government actions will occur, which they did later that month. Several ministers, including the interior minister, resigned during the protests. Gruevski initially refused to step down, saying on 16 May that \"if I back down it would be a cowardly move ... I’ll face down the attacks.” However on 15 January 2016, Emil Dimitriev was nominated as prime minister of Macedonia and he assumed office on 18 January, following the arranged pre-electoral resignation of Gruevski from the position, as part of the Przino Agreement.\n\nIn July 2017, a Macedonian court ordered the seizure of the passports of Gruevski and four other officials of his party, including former interior minister Gordana Jankuloska and former transportation minister Mile Janakieski, in connection with the wiretapping case.\n\nIn December 2017, Gruevski resigned as leader of the VMRO-DPMNE, following the party's major defeat by the Social Democratic Union in local elections.\n\nIn January 2017, the Macedonian Special Prosecutor's Office launched the 'Tank' investigation in which two individuals were accused for using their official position and authority in the period from February to October 2012 to complete an illegal public procurement of a Mercedes-Benz 600 worth €600,000 and 'fulfill the wishes' of Gruevski who was Prime Minister at the time. On 23 May 2018, Gruevski was sentenced to two years in prison for unlawfully influencing government officials in a purchase of a luxury bulletproof car.\n\nIn 9 November 2018, the Skopje Criminal Court rejected Gruevski's appeals for a postponement of his prison sentence and he failed to show up to start serving his two-year jail sentence. The Macedonian authorities issued an arrest warrant against the fugitive and a country-wide search was launched. VMRO-DPMNE's leader, Hristijan Mickoski defended Gruevski and described the arrest-warrant and police search against him as \"political persecution\" and \"witch-hunt\" and that VMRO-DPMNE is \"under police siege\". \n\nOn 13 November, Gruevski announced through his Facebook account that he fled to Hungary, where he applied for political asylum. Gruevski was seen as having particularly close relations with the right-wing national conservative Fidesz's head, and Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, who opposed the Prespa agreement between Greece and Macedonia and supported VMRO-DPMNE's hardline position against it.\n\nDespite his passport having been confiscated, Gruevski has successfully escaped and concerns arose, that he probably used a Bulgarian one. However, according to Bulgarian authorities, Gruevski has never applied for Bulgarian citizenship. It was later confirmed by the Albanian police that, with the aid of the Hungarian government which escorted him using Hungarian diplomatic vehicles, Gruevski entered Albania, and from there into Montenegro and Serbia before arriving at Hungary where he sought asylum.\n\nInterpol alerted that Gruevski is wanted under an international arrest warrant and the Macedonian government filed a formal extradition request. Hungary's opposition parties are calling on the Hungarian government to arrest and quickly extradite the fugitive former Macedonian PM, back to the Republic of Macedonia.\n\nOn 20 November 2018, Nikola Gruevski was granted political asylum by the Hungarian authorities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58811791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58811791", "title": "Penelope Endersby", "text": "Penelope Endersby\n\nPenelope (Penny) Endersby is a British researcher and academic specialising in armour and explosives. She was appointed Chief Executive of the Met Office in December 2018. Prior to that, she led cyber and information systems at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory. \n\nEndersby grew up in north London and was educated at Haberdashers' Aske's School for Girls, Elstree. She studied Natural Sciences at the University of Cambridge, and was a member of Newnham College. She remains an associate of Newnham. Here she became interested in materials science and metallurgy. She was sponsored by joined British Gas, researching fuel cells. After graduating she joined the Royal Armament and Research Development Establishment in 1993. \n\nEndersby, a researcher specialising in armour and explosives, served at the Royal Armament and Research Development Establishment, becoming the \"UK expert on electric and intelligent armours\". She was appointed as the department manager at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory in 2009. She began to focus on C4ISR and cyber security. She holds a Royal Academy of Engineering visiting professorship at the University of Southampton. Endersby was made division head of Cyber and Information Systems Division at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory in 2015. She was involved in their International Women's Day celebrations.\n\nShe joined the council of the Institute of Physics in 2017. Endersby was appointed as Chief Executive at the Met Office in December 2018; she is the first woman to fill that role. She serves on the board of Ploughshare Innovations, the Ministry of Defence (United Kingdom) technology transfer office.\n\nEndersby is an expert choir singer. She has two children. She is interested in wildlife and records the UK phenology. She is a trustee of the Wiltshire Wildlife Trust.\n"}
{"id": "322138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322138", "title": "Peter Green (musician)", "text": "Peter Green (musician)\n\nPeter Green (born Peter Allen Greenbaum, 29 October 1946) is a British blues rock guitarist. As the founder of Fleetwood Mac, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1998. Green's songs, such as \"Albatross\", \"Black Magic Woman\", \"Oh Well\", \"The Green Manalishi (With the Two Prong Crown)\" and \"Man of the World\", appeared on the record charts, and several have been adapted by a variety of musicians.\n\nGreen was a major figure in the \"second great epoch\" of the British blues movement. B.B. King commented, \"He has the sweetest tone I ever heard; he was the only one who gave me the cold sweats.\" Eric Clapton has praised his guitar playing; he is noted for his use of string bending, vibrato, and economy of style.\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" ranked Green at number 38 in its list of the \"100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time\". His tone on the instrumental \"The Supernatural\" was rated as one of the 50 greatest of all time by \"Guitar Player\".\nIn June 1996, Green was voted the third-best guitarist of all time in \"Mojo\" magazine.\n\nPeter Allen Greenbaum was born in Bethnal Green, London on 29 October 1946. He first played bass guitar in a band called Bobby Dennis and the Dominoes, which performed pop chart covers and rock 'n' roll standards, including Shadows covers. He later stated that Hank Marvin was his guitar hero and he played The Shadows song \"Midnight \"on the 1996 tribute album \"Twang.\" He went on to join a rhythm and blues outfit, the Muskrats, then a band called The Tridents in which he played bass. In 1966, Green played lead guitar in Peter Bardens' band \"Peter B's Looners\", where he met drummer Mick Fleetwood. It was with Peter B's Looners that he made his recording début with the single \"If You Wanna Be Happy\" with \"Jodrell Blues\" as a B-side. His recording of \"If You Wanna Be Happy\" was an instrumental cover of a song by Jimmy Soul.\nAfter three months with Bardens' group, Green had the opportunity to fill in for Eric Clapton in John Mayall & the Bluesbreakers for three concerts. Soon after, when Clapton left the Bluesbreakers, Green became a full-time member of Mayall's band.\n\nMike Vernon, a producer at Decca Records recalls Green's début with the Bluesbreakers:\n\nGreen made his recording debut with the Bluesbreakers in 1966 on the album \"A Hard Road\" (1967), which featured two of his own compositions, \"The Same Way\" and \"The Supernatural\". The latter was one of Green's first instrumentals, which would soon become a trademark. So proficient was he that his musician friends bestowed upon him the nickname \"The Green God\". In 1967, Green decided to form his own blues band and left the Bluesbreakers.\n\nGreen's new band, with former Bluesbreaker, Mick Fleetwood on drums and Jeremy Spencer on guitar, was initially called \"Peter Green's Fleetwood Mac featuring Jeremy Spencer\". Bob Brunning was temporarily employed on bass guitar, as Green's first choice, Bluesbreakers' bassist John McVie, was not yet ready to join the band. Within a month they played at the Windsor National Jazz and Blues Festival in August 1967 and were quickly signed to Mike Vernon's Blue Horizon label. Their repertoire consisted mainly of blues covers and originals, mostly written by Green, but some were written by slide guitarist Jeremy Spencer. The band's first single, \"I Believe My Time Ain't Long\" with \"Rambling Pony\" as a B-side, did not chart but their eponymous debut album made a significant impression, remaining in the British charts for over a year. By September 1967, John McVie had replaced Brunning.\n\nAlthough classic blues covers and blues-styled originals remained prominent in the band's repertoire through this period, Green rapidly blossomed as a songwriter and contributed many successful original compositions from 1968 onwards. The songs chosen for single release showed Green's style gradually moving away from the group's blues roots into new musical territory. Their second studio album \"Mr. Wonderful\" was released in 1968 and continued the formula of the first album. In the same year they scored a hit with Green's \"Black Magic Woman\" (later covered by Santana), followed by the guitar instrumental \"Albatross\" (1969), which reached number one in the British singles charts. More hits written by Green followed, including \"Oh Well\", \"Man of the World\" (both 1969) and the ominous \"The Green Manalishi\" (1970). The double album \"Blues Jam in Chicago\" (1969) was recorded at the Chess Records Ter-Mar Studio in Chicago. There, under the joint supervision of Vernon and Marshall Chess, they recorded with some of their American blues heroes including Otis Spann, Big Walter Horton, Willie Dixon, J. T. Brown and Buddy Guy.\n\nIn 1969, after signing to Immediate Records for one single (\"Man of the World\", prior to that label's collapse) the group signed with Warner Bros. Records' Reprise Records label and recorded their fourth studio album \"Then Play On\", prominently featuring the group's new third guitarist, 18-year-old Danny Kirwan. Green had first seen Kirwan in 1967 playing with his blues trio Boilerhouse, with Trevor Stevens on bass and Dave Terrey on drums. Green was impressed with Kirwan's playing and used the band as a support act for Fleetwood Mac before recruiting Kirwan to his own band in 1968 at the suggestion of Mick Fleetwood. Spencer, however, made virtually no contribution to \"Then Play On\", owing to his reported refusal to play on any of Green's original material.\n\nBeginning with \"Man of the World\"'s melancholy lyric, Green's bandmates began to notice changes in his state of mind. He was taking large doses of LSD, grew a beard and began to wear robes and a crucifix. Mick Fleetwood recalls Green becoming concerned about wealth: \"I had conversations with Peter Green around that time and he was obsessive about us not making money, wanting us to give it all away. And I'd say, 'Well you can do it, I don't wanna do that, and that doesn't make me a bad person.'\"\n\nWhile touring Europe in late March 1970, Green took LSD at a party at a commune in Munich, an incident cited by Fleetwood Mac manager Clifford Davis as the crucial point in his mental decline. Communard Rainer Langhans mentions in his autobiography that he and Uschi Obermaier met Green in Munich, where they invited him to their \"Highfisch-Kommune\". Their real intention was to persuade Green to help arrange for Jimi Hendrix and the Rolling Stones to perform as headline acts at a Woodstock-styled festival in Bavaria. Fleetwood Mac roadie Dinky Dawson remembers that Green went to the party with another roadie, Dennis Keane, and that when Keane returned to the band's hotel to explain that Green would not leave the commune, Keane, Dawson and Mick Fleetwood travelled there to fetch him. By contrast, Green stated that he had fond memories of jamming at the commune when speaking in 2009: \"I had a good play there, it was great, someone recorded it, they gave me a tape. There were people playing along, a few of us just fooling around and it was... yeah it was great.\" He told Jeremy Spencer at the time \"That's the most spiritual music I've ever recorded in my life.\" After a final performance on 20 May 1970, Green left Fleetwood Mac.\n\nOn 27 June 1970, Green appeared at the Bath Festival of Blues and Progressive Music with John Mayall, Rod Mayall (organ), Ric Grech (bass) and Aynsley Dunbar (drums). Also soon after leaving Fleetwood Mac, he accompanied former bandmate keyboardist Peter Bardens (Peter B's Looners) on Bardens' solo LP \"The Answer\", playing lead guitar on several tracks. In that same year, he recorded a jam session with drummer Godfrey Maclean, keyboardists Zoot Money and Nick Buck, and bassist Alex Dmochowski of Aynsley Dunbar's Retaliation; Reprise Records released the session as \"The End of the Game\", Peter's first post-Fleetwood Mac solo album. In 1971 he had a brief reunion with Fleetwood Mac, helping them to complete a US tour after guitarist Jeremy Spencer had left the group, performing under the pseudonym Peter Blue. He recorded two tracks for the album \"Juju\" with Bobby Tench's band Gass; a solo single and another with Nigel Watson, sessions with B. B. King in London in 1972 and an uncredited appearance on Fleetwood Mac's \"Penguin\" LP in 1973, on the song \"Night Watch\". Green's mental illness and drug use had become entrenched at this time and he faded into professional obscurity.\n\nIn the early 2000s there were rumours of a reunion of the early line-up of Fleetwood Mac, involving Peter Green and Jeremy Spencer. The two guitarists and vocalists were apparently unconvinced of the merits of such a project, but in April 2006, during a question-and-answer session on the \"Penguin\" Fleetwood Mac fan website, bassist John McVie said of the reunion idea:\n\nGreen was eventually diagnosed with schizophrenia and spent time in psychiatric hospitals undergoing electroconvulsive therapy during the mid-1970s. Many sources attest to his lethargic, trancelike state during this period. In 1977, Green was arrested for threatening his accountant David Simmons with a shotgun. The exact circumstances are the subject of much speculation, the most famous being that Green wanted Simmons to stop sending money to him. In the 2011 BBC documentary \"Peter Green: Man of the World\", Green stated that at the time he had just returned from Canada needing money and that, during a telephone conversation with his accounts manager, he alluded to the fact that he had brought back a gun from his travels. His accounts manager promptly called the police, who surrounded Green's house.\n\nIn 1979, Green began to re-emerge professionally. With the help of his brother Michael, he was signed to Peter Vernon-Kell's PVK label, and produced a string of solo albums starting with 1979's \"In the Skies\". He also made an uncredited appearance on Fleetwood Mac's double album \"Tusk\", on the song \"Brown Eyes\", released the same year.\n\nIn 1981, Green contributed to \"Rattlesnake Shake\" and \"Super Brains\" on Mick Fleetwood's solo album \"The Visitor\". He recorded various sessions with a number of other musicians notably the Katmandu album \"A Case for the Blues\" with Ray Dorset of Mungo Jerry, Vincent Crane from The Crazy World of Arthur Brown and Len Surtees of The Nashville Teens. Despite attempts by Gibson Guitar Corporation to start talks about producing a \"Peter Green signature Les Paul\" guitar, Green's instrument of choice at this time was a Gibson Howard Roberts Fusion guitar. In 1986 Peter and his brother Micky contributed to the album \"A Touch of Sunburn\" by Lawrie 'The Raven' Gaines (under the group name 'The Enemy Within'). This album has been re-issued many times under such titles as \"Post Modern Blues\" and \"Peter Green and Mick Green – Two Greens Make a Blues\", often crediting Pirates guitarist Mick Green.\n\nIn 1988 Green was quoted as saying: \"I'm at present recuperating from treatment for taking drugs. It was drugs that influenced me a lot. I took more than I intended to. I took LSD eight or nine times. The effect of that stuff lasts so long... I wanted to give away all my money... I went kind of holy - no, not holy, religious. I thought I could do it, I thought I was all right on drugs. My failing!\" \n\nGreen formed the Peter Green Splinter Group in the late 1990s, with the assistance of Nigel Watson and Cozy Powell. The Splinter Group released nine albums between 1997 and 2004.\n\nEarly in 2004, a tour was cancelled and the recording of a new studio album stopped when Green left the band and moved to Sweden. Shortly afterwards he joined The British Blues All Stars, for a tour scheduled for the next year. However, this tour was cancelled after the death of saxophonist Dick Heckstall-Smith. At the time, Green stated that the medication he was taking to treat his psychological problems was making it hard for him to concentrate and sapped his desire to play guitar.\n\nIn February 2009, Green began playing and touring again, this time as Peter Green and Friends. In May 2009 he was the subject for the BBC Four documentary \"Peter Green: Man of the World\", produced by Henry Hadaway. Green and the band subsequently played a tour of Ireland, Germany and England. They went on to play several dates in Australia during March 2010, including the Byron Bay Bluesfest. The band were supported by singer-songwriter Garron Frith on their UK tour dates during May 2010.\n\nGreen has been praised for his swinging shuffle grooves and soulful phrases and favoured the minor mode and its darker blues implications. His distinct tone can be heard on \"The Super-Natural\", an instrumental written by Green for John Mayall and the Bluesbreakers' 1967 album \"A Hard Road\". This song demonstrates Green's control of harmonic feedback. The sound is characterized by a shivering vibrato, clean cutting tones and a series of ten-second sustained notes. These tones were achieved by Green controlling feedback on a Les Paul guitar.\n\nEarly in his career, Green played a Harmony Meteor, an inexpensive hollow-body guitar. He began playing a Gibson Les Paul with the Bluesbreakers, a guitar which was often referred to as his \"magic guitar\". Though he played other guitars, he is best known for deriving a unique tone from his 1959 Les Paul. Green later sold it to Northern Irish guitarist Gary Moore for $US300, which was the same price he had paid for it. In 2016, Kirk Hammett of Metallica bought the guitar for a reported $US2 million.\n\nIn the 1990s, Green played a 1960s Fender Stratocaster and a Gibson Howard Roberts Fusion model, using Fender Blues DeVille and Vox AC30 amplifiers. More recently, the Gibson ES-165 has seen more use.\n\nMany rock guitarists have cited Green as an influence, including Gary Moore, Joe Perry of Aerosmith and Andy Powell of Wishbone Ash.\nGreen was The Black Crowes' Rich Robinson's pick in Guitar World's \"30 on 30: The Greatest Guitarists Picked by the Greatest Guitarists\" (2010). In the same article Robinson cites Jimmy Page, with whom the Crowes toured: \"he told us so many Peter Green stories. It was clear that Jimmy loves the man's talent\".\nGreen's songs have been recorded by artists such as Santana, Aerosmith, Status Quo, Black Crowes, Midge Ure, Tom Petty, Judas Priest and Gary Moore, who recorded \"Blues for Greeny\", an album of Green compositions.\n\nGreen was born into a Jewish family, the youngest of Joe and Ann Greenbaum's four children. His brother Michael taught him his first guitar chords and by the age of eleven, Green was teaching himself and began playing professionally by age fifteen.\n\nEnduring periods of mental illness and destitution throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Green moved in with his older brother Len and his wife Gloria, and his mother in their house in Great Yarmouth, where a process of recovery began.\n\nGreen married Jane Samuels in January 1978; the couple divorced in 1979. They have a daughter, Rosebud Samuels-Greenbaum (born 1978).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "251359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251359", "title": "Peter John Olivi", "text": "Peter John Olivi\n\nPeter John Olivi, also Pierre de Jean Olivi or Petrus Joannis Olivi (1248 – March 14, 1298), was a Franciscan theologian who, although he died professing the faith of the Roman Catholic Church, became a controversial figure in the arguments surrounding poverty at the beginning of the 14th century. In large part, this was due to his view that the Franciscan vow of poverty also entailed \"usus pauper\" (i.e., 'poor' or 'restricted' use of goods); while contemporary Franciscans generally agreed that \"usus pauper\" was important to the Franciscan way of life, they disagreed that it was part of their vow of poverty. His support of the extreme view of ecclesiastical poverty played a part in the ideology of the groups coming to be known as the Spiritual Franciscans or Fraticelli.\n\nA Franciscan and theological author, born at Sérignan, Diocese of Béziers, 1247-8. At twelve he entered the Friars Minor at Béziers, and later studied at Paris. He was already present there in 1268, when Bonaventure gave his \"Collationes de septem donis Spiritus sancti\", and was probably still there in 1273, at the \"Collationes in Hexaemeron\". Returning to his native province, he taught in different places, and was probably in Narbonne around 1277-79.\nDuring the preparation of Nicholas III's Bull \"Exiit qui seminat\", in the summer of 1279, Olivi accompanied his provincial minister to Italy, but was not himself part of the commission that work on the Bull. He was asked to express briefly his opinion with regard to Franciscan poverty, but composed much longer questions on the evangelical perfection. Upon his return to Languedoc, he was promoted as biblical lecturer at Montpellier and produce a number of major biblical commentaries (on Matthew, Isaiah, Genesis, Job and John). One opponent (described as \"brother Ar.\", to be identified with Arnaud Gaillard, then a formed bachelor back from Paris) voiced his opposition to Olivi's views on the vow, which prompted him to write a \"Treatise on poor use\" (\"De usu paupere\"). The controversy between the two young theologians raged on many different issues, which attracted the attention of the General Chapter of Strasburg in 1282. Although we know only of Olivi's fate, both were probably suspended from teaching. His doctrine was examined by seven franciscans theologians at Paris, who first drew a list of errors (\"Littera septem sigillorum\") and then substantiated it by a roll of extracts (\"rotulus\").\nOlivi defended himself in several responses (1283–85), and finally the General Chapter of Montpellier (1287) decided in his favour. The new general superior, Matthew of Aquasparta, sent him as lector in theology to the convent of Santa Croce in Florence, whence Matthew's successor, Raymond Gaufredi, sent him as lector to Montpellier. At the General Chapter of Paris in 1292 Olivi again gave explanations, which were apparently satisfactory. He spent his last years in the convent of Narbonne and died, surrounded by his friends, after an earnest profession of his Catholic Faith (published by Wadding ad a. 1297, n. 33) on 14 March 1298.\n\nOlivi's work \"On Sale, Purchase, Usury and Restitution\", or more simply \"On Contracts\" (as in the latest edition by S. Piron, 2012), contains a subtle discussion of the pricing of risks and probabilities in connection with valuing compensation due for compulsory requisitioning of property.\n\nPeace was not obtained by his death. His friends, friars and seculars, showed an exaggerated veneration for their leader, and honoured his tomb as that of a saint; on the other hand the General Chapter of Lyon in 1299 ordered his writings to be collected and burnt as heretical.\nThe General Council of Vienne in 1312 established, in the Decretal \"Fidei catholicæ fundamento\" (Bull. Franc., V, 86), the Catholic doctrine against three points of Olivi's teaching, without mentioning the author; these points referred to the moment Christ's body was transfixed by the lance, the manner in which the soul is united to the body and the baptism of infants.\nIn 1318 the friars of his order went so far as to destroy Olivi's tomb, a desecration, and in the next year two further steps were taken against him: his writings were absolutely forbidden by the General Chapter of Marseilles, and a special commission of theologians examined Olivi's \"Postilla in Apocalypsim\" and marked out sixty sentences, chiefly joachimistical extravagances (see Joachim of Flora. For text see Baluzius-Mansi, \"Miscellanea\", II, Lucca, 1761, 258-70; cf. also Denifle, \"Chartularium Universitatis Parisiensis\", II, i, Paris, 1891, 238-9) . It was only in 1326 that those sentences were really condemned by John XXII, when the fact that Emperor Louis IV the Bavarian used Olivi's writings in his famous Appeal of Sachsenhausen in 1324 had again drawn attention to the author.\nFather Ehrle considers (Archiv, III, 440) that Olivi was not the impious heretic he is painted in some writings of the Middle Ages, and states (ibid., 448) that the denunciation of his theological doctrine was rather a tactical measure of the adversaries of the severe principles of poverty and reform professed by Olivi. For the rest, Olivi follows in many points the doctrine of St. Bonaventure.\n\nThe numerous works of Olivi, now edited for the most, can be divided into five classes:\n\n1. Speculative Works\n\n2. Exegetical Works\n\n3. Works on observance of the Rule of Saint Francis and evangelical perfection\n\n4. Apologetical works and letters\n\n5. Devotional works\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49315953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49315953", "title": "Romanian presidential election, 1980", "text": "Romanian presidential election, 1980\n\nA presidential election was held in the Socialist Republic of Romania on 28 March 1980. \n\nNicolae Ceaușescu was re-elected by the Great National Assembly as the President of Romania during its meeting of 28 March 1980; he was the only candidate.\n"}
{"id": "40007396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40007396", "title": "Ruda Ladha Chawra", "text": "Ruda Ladha Chawra\n\nSeth Ruda Ladha Chawra, Rai Saheb (1884–1948) was a noted railway contractor and Kutchi industrialist, who established himself at Bagra, India.\n\nHe was born in 1884 to Ladha Bharmal of Chandiya at Madhapar near Bhuj in erstwhile Princely State of Cutch. He belonged to a small but enterprising Mestri community, which was known for their architectural skills. Ruda Ladha's father Ladha Bharamal and uncle Ramji Bharmal worked as a railway contractor in Itarsi – Jabalpur section in 1869–71 and also Bhopal State Railway works in 1880–81 connecting Itarsi with Bhopal.\n\nRuda Ladha had some primary education at vernacular school at Madhapar and Bhuj.\n\nRuda Ladha also joined his father in his business of railway contractor at a very early age and soon gained a name as reputed railway contractor for Great Indian Peninsula Railway. He was involved in laying of railway line from Pandhurna to Itarsi section in 1922 with fellow contractors from his community and worked on several other railway bridges and lines.\n\nHe was also involved in several railway contract works of Seth Walchand Hirachand with whom he shared personal friendship. Walchand, when founded Hindustan Construction Company in 1926, offered him to join him as a partner in his company, which he politely declined. He along with some other Mestri railway contractors were a part of the team that did Bhor ghat tunnelling in Kasara to Khandala section of G.I.P. Railway, which was completed by Tata Construction Company headed by Walchand during years 1926–28.\n\nHe later established himself at a small village Bagra in erstwhile Central Provinces and Berar (present day Madhya Pradesh) around 1915. He was one of the early businessman to enter into the roof tile making business and only second after Sitaram Malaviya, who pioneered the industry in 1903 by establishing the first roof tile factory at Bagra under name Sitaram & Sons. Ruda Ladha started his industrial career with a factory at Bagra in 1921, which he later developed into a fully mechanised modern factory, importing machinery and dies from England. The 'Trishul' brand of tiles made by him soon earned name throughout India and he became a leading businessman in tile making business and he expanded into establishing several other tile making factories in later years.\n\nHe also held some investments in a colliery at Betul near Chhindwara. Further, he also owned Manganese mines. His son Maoji Ruda, who inherited his tiles factory and Manganese mines and a noted contractor, who was involved in doubling of railway lines between Bagra Tawa and Sohagpur (23.1 km), Itarsi to Gurra (10.6 km), Madan Mahal to Bheraghat (13.1 km) (1961–62) and doubling of the Itarsi— Bhopal section between Itarsi – Powarkheda – Hoshangabad (18.1 km) (1961–62).\n\nHe was nominated as a member to District Council of Hoshangabad and made an honorary magistrate III Class. He was awarded title of Rai Saheb by British in year 1929. He was also awarded Jubilee Medal of 1935 and 1937 Coronation Medal.\n\nHe owned large mansion at Hoshangabad and valuable landed properties at Hoshangabad, Itarsi, Bhopal and Jabalpur including major portion of agricultural lands at Bagra village. In his native village Madhapar in Kutch, also he owned a large mansion and agricultural lands.\n\nHe owned a cinema hall named 'Bharat Talkies' at Itarsi, which he built in year 1945.\n\nHe donated money in 1930 to open a ward, which was named after him as Ruda Ladha Ward at Friends Hospital in Itarsi. Also he was responsible for starting a primary school at Bagra Tawa and donated money for expansion of school at Hoshangabad and Itarsi and building a temple at Bagra Tawa. He had also donated money to Indian Red Cross Society.\n\nHe died in 1948 at Bagra due heart attack and was survived by several sons.\n\nHis legacy of tile and contractor business was carried on by his brother, sons and grandsons like, Manji Ladha, Pragji ruda, Omkarbhai Pragji Chawra, Chimanlal pragji Chawra, Gopal Chawra and others. The several tiles factory started by him and his brothers like, Ruda Ladha & Sons, Manji Ladha & Sons, Trisul Tile Works, Bagra Tile & Bricks Co., which continued to dominate tile market of India for at least seven decades, till the government environment policies lead to its decline in decade of 1980s and the industry is near its death-bed in current era, as there is complete ban an excavating yellow clay from Satpura forests.\"Manglore pattern tiles\" came to be known as \"Bagra Tiles\" after village Bagra where factories in which these bricks were produced were located., thus throwing this obscure village on industrial map of India.\n"}
{"id": "1235624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235624", "title": "Sam Posey", "text": "Sam Posey\n\nSam Posey (born May 26, 1944, in New York City, New York) is a retired American racing driver and sports broadcast journalist.\n\nSam Posey started as an amateur sports car racer, and graduated to the Can Am and Trans Am. Posey raced the Sunoco Camaro for Roger Penske in 1968 in the Trans Am series. Chevrolet won the championship based on the Penske team effort. Mark Donohue was the lead driver and he won a remarkable 10 of 13 races. Posey's first race was at Bridgehampton where he finished 3rd. Other finishes were: Meadowdale, 3rd’; St Jovite, 3rd; Bryar, 6th; Watkins Glen, 2nd which was the only race that Donohue was beaten by a Camaro in 1968. Posey's car was the same Sunoco Blue with yellow lettering as Donohue. Posey sported a yellow spoiler and Donohue had a red spoiler.\n\nIn 1969, he won the Lime Rock Trans-Am in a factory Ford Mustang. In 1970, Posey was the driver for Ray Caldwell's factory-backed Autodynamics Dodge Challenger in Trans-Am, racing against Parnelli Jones, Dan Gurney, Mark Donohue and Jim Hall in what most racing historians regard as the greatest season of professional road racing in US history. Posey also raced in the USAC Championship Car series in the 1969 and 1972-1974 seasons, with 13 career starts, including the 1972 Indianapolis 500. He finished in the top ten 8 times, with his best finish in 3rd position in 1969 at the Kent road course. He was the team driver for Caldwell's Can-Am racer which featured monocoque aluminum construction in two parallel longitudinal space frames, with solid front and rear axles.\n\nAs an endurance racer, Posey appeared at the 24 Hours of Le Mans 10 times (1966, 1969–1973, and 1975–1978) and finished in the top 10 five times. His best finish was 3rd position during the 1971 competition in which he drove the Ferrari 512M. He also won the 1975 12 Hours of Sebring, teaming with three other drivers.\n\nHe participated in two Formula One world championship events, the 1971 and 1972 United States Grand Prix, retiring from the first and finishing 12th in the second, thus not scoring any championship points. He drove Surtees cars on both occasions, but only the first was a works-entered car.\n\nHe also competed in a single event in the NASCAR Grand National Series (now known as the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series), the first race of the 1970 season, held on the Riverside International Raceway road race course in Riverside, California.\n\nPosey went on to become an auto racing commentator for ABC Sports. Posey debuted on ABC for the Indianapolis 500 in 1974, serving as analyst. In subsequent years, he served as a pit reporter, and ultimately returned to the booth starting in 1982.\n\nWhile commentating the 1986 Indianapolis 500, as there was a yellow flag out very near the end of the race, Posey used a two-way radio to ask an impromptu question to race leader Kevin Cogan. Posey was trying to ask Cogan about his thoughts in leading the Indianapolis 500 at this stage. Cogan tried to stave off the conversation once, but Posey persisted a second time, at which time Cogan politely replied to Posey that he was \"a little busy now,\" but would talk to him later. Posey understood the circumstances and told the audience if that were he, \"I wouldn't want to talk to me either.\" Moments later, on a restart with two laps remaining, Bobby Rahal jumped Cogan on the restart and went on to win.\n\nAlong with the Indy 500, Posey's ABC Sports duties included commentary for the CART/PPG Indy Car World Series with Paul Page and Bobby Unser, lasting through 1995. Posey also appeared on selected NASCAR broadcasts on ABC. The three-man booth of Page, Posey, and Unser was a fixture of Indy car racing during the late 1980s and early 1990s. Posey and Bobby Unser were known to engage in friendly, but sometimes heated exchanges on-air. The friction reached a level such that beginning in 1993 at the Indy 500, Unser moved out of the booth and began reporting from a remote location in turn two.\n\nIn 1989, Posey was brought in as part of the ABC Sports broadcast team covering the 1989 Tour de France. Many people were surprised by Posey's knowledge and genuine enthusiasm for the sport. ABC would bring him back as the lead anchor for the 1990 and 1991 races. Posey also worked as the play-by-play announcer for luge during ABC's coverage of the 1984 Winter Olympics in Sarajevo and the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary.\n\nPosey later moved to Speedvision (also known as Speed Channel). He currently does essay work for the coverage of the Tour de France on the Outdoor Life Network (next known as Versus, now known as NBC Sports) serving as the \"Race Historian\", and writes for Road & Track magazine.\n\nPosey is also the author of \"Playing With Trains,\" a book on model railroading published by Random House and his layout (the Colorado Midland) was featured in the February 1995 issue of \"Model Railroader\" Magazine, and \"The Mudge Pond Express\", an autobiography which centers around his personal racing career and love of the sport.\n\nAn accomplished artist, painter and architect, in 1966 he earned his B.F.A. in painting from Rhode Island School of Design. Since 1995, Posey suffers from Parkinson's disease, which has attenuated his activities in recent years.\n\nPosey was the voice for the pre-race build-up montage slotted between the Mercedes-Benz Pre-Race Show and the actual race coverage for each Formula 1 race shown on the Speed Channel. Posey also comments on recent Formula 1 races and the championship in a segment called \"Posey's Perspective\" as part of the Formula 1 Debrief show (also featuring Bob Varsha, David Hobbs, Steve Matchett, and Will Buxton) on the Speed Channel. Posey now narrates F1 montages on NBC Sports Network after NBC purchased the rights to broadcast the 2013 season.\n\nIn 2013, the front straight at Lime Rock Park was renamed the Sam Posey Straight.\n\n"}
{"id": "44160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44160", "title": "Sauk people", "text": "Sauk people\n\nThe Sac or Sauk are a group of Native Americans of the Eastern Woodlands culture group, who lived primarily in the region of what is now Green Bay, Wisconsin, when first encountered by the French in 1667. Their autonym is oθaakiiwaki, and their exonym is Ozaagii(-wag) in Ojibwe. The latter name was transliterated into French and English by colonists of those cultures.\n\nToday they have three federally recognized tribes, together with the Meskwaki (Fox), located in Iowa, Oklahoma and Kansas.\n\nThe Sauk, an Algonquian languages people, are believed to have developed as a people along the St. Lawrence River. They were driven by pressure from other tribes, especially the powerful Iroquois League or \"Haudenosaunee\". It is believed by some historians that they then migrated to what is now eastern Michigan, where they settled around Saginaw Bay. Due to the yellow-clay soils found around Saginaw Bay, they called themselves the autonym of \"Oθaakiiwaki\" (often interpreted to mean \"yellow-earth\".) Some native Ojibwe oral histories also place the Sauk in the Saginaw Valley some time before the arrival of Europeans.\n\nHowever, this location near Lake Huron for the Sauk at that time may be in error. In the early 17th century, when natives told French explorer Samuel de Champlain that the Sauk nation was located on the west shore of Lake Michigan, Champlain mistakenly placed them on the western shore of Lake Huron. This mistake was copied on subsequent maps, and future references identified this as the place of the Sauks. Champlain himself never visited what is now Michigan. There is little archaeological evidence that the Sauk lived in the Saginaw area. \n\nThe neighboring Anishanabeg Ojibwe and Ottawa peoples referred to them by the exonym \"Ozaagii\", meaning \"those at the outlet\". French colonists transliterated that as \"Sac\" and the English as \"Sauk\". Anishinaabe expansion and the Huron attempt to gain regional stability drove the Sac out of their territory. The Huron were armed with guns supplied by their French trading partners. The Sac moved south to territory in parts of what are now northern Illinois and Wisconsin.\n\nA closely allied tribe, the \"Meskwaki\" (Fox), were noted for resisting French encroachment, having fought two wars against them in the early 18th century. After a devastating battle of September 9, 1730, in Illinois, in which hundreds of warriors were killed and many women and children taken captive by French allies, Fox refugees took shelter with the Sac, making them subject to French attack. The Sac continued moving west to Iowa and Kansas. Two important leaders arose among the Sac: Keokuk and Black Hawk. At first Keokuk accepted the loss of land as inevitable in the face of the vast numbers of white soldiers and settlers coming west. He tried to preserve tribal land and his people, and to keep the peace.\n\nHaving failed to receive expected supplies from the Americans on credit, Black Hawk wanted to fight, saying his people were \"forced into war by being deceived\". Led by Black Hawk in 1832, the mainly Sac band resisted the continued loss of lands (in western Illinois, this time.) Their warfare with United States forces resulted in defeat at the hands of General Edmund P. Gaines in the Black Hawk War.\n\nAbout this time, one group of Sac moved into Missouri, and later to Kansas and Nebraska. In 1869 the larger group of Sac moved into reservations in Oklahoma, where they merged with the Meskwaki as the federally recognized Sac and Fox Nation. (The United States had been making treaties with them together since their residency in the Midwest.) A smaller number returned to the Midwest from Oklahoma (or resisted leaving.) They joined the Mesquakie at the Mesqwaki Settlement, Iowa.\n\nOriginally, the Sauk had a patrilineal clan system, in which descent and inheritance was traced through the father. Clans which continue are: Fish, Ocean/Sea, Thunder, Bear, Fox, Potato, Deer, Beaver, Snow, and Wolf. The tribe was governed by a council of sacred clan chiefs, a war chief, the head of families, and the warriors. Chiefs were recognized in three categories: civil, war, and ceremonial. Only the civil chiefs were hereditary. The other two chiefs were recognized by bands after they demonstrated their ability or spiritual power.\n\nThis traditional manner of selecting historic clan chiefs and governance was replaced in the 19th century by the United States appointing leaders through their agents at the Sac and Fox Agency, or reservation in Indian Territory (now Oklahoma). In the 20th century, the tribe adopted a constitutional government patterned after the United States form. They elect their chiefs.\n\nToday the federally recognized Sac and Fox tribes are:\n\nSauk is one of the many Algonquian languages. It is very closely related to the varieties spoken by the Meskwaki and the Kickapoo tribes; linguists often describe these three as dialects of the same language. Each of the dialects contains archaisms and innovations that distinguish them from each other. Sauk and Meskwaki appear to be the most closely related of the three, reflecting the peoples' long relationship. Sauk is considered to be mutually intelligible, to a point, with Fox.\n\nIn their own language, the Sauk at one time called themselves \"asakiwaki\" [a-‘sak-i-wa-ki], \"people of the outlet\".\n\nThe Sauk people have a syllabic orthography for their language. They published a Primer Book in 1975, based on a \"traditional\" syllabary that existed in 1906. It is intended to help modern-day Sauk to learn to write and speak their ancestral tongue. A newer orthography was proposed around 1994 to aid in language revival. The former syllabary was aimed at remaining native speakers of Sauk; the more recent orthography was developed for native English speakers, as many Sauk grow up with English as their first language (Müller 1994).\n\nSauk has so few speakers that it is considered an endangered language, as are numerous others native to North America.\n\nIn 2012, Shawnee High School in Shawnee, Oklahoma began to offer a Sauk language course.\nSauk does not have many phonemes in comparison to many other languages: four vowels, two semivowels, and eight consonants.\n\nThe representation of was omitted in the 1977 syllabary. It was added back in later editions because it is an important distinctive sound in the Sauk language.\n\nAll three stops have at least two allophones each, one voiceless and one voiced:\n\nMüller (1994) symbolizes as /y/, following Americanist practice.\n\nVowel length is important in the Sauk language. Müller presents four vowels, each with two allophones:\n\nPitch and tone are also important when speaking Sauk.\nBoth the Sauk and Fox languages are known for \"swallowing\" syllables in word-final position, which can make identification of individual sounds more difficult for the language learner.\n\nSauk is a polysynthetic language. Because this can easily pose great difficulties to learners with little to no experience with highly synthetic languages, the Sauk orthography has words written by identifying each syllable.\n\nTwo samples of written Sauk language, as they appear in Müller (1994):\n\"Ho! Ne nu ta ma\"!\n\n'Hi! I speak Sauk!'\n\"Ni swi me cli ke a ki a la se te ke wa ki a la te ki ki\"\n\n\"e ka ta wi ke mi yak i e we li ke mi ya ki ne ko ti\"\n\n\"me cle ke a e cla gwe ne mo tti wi ne li wi tti cle we na\"\n\n\"li ta ske wa ne li se ke\"\n\n\"Two turtles were sunning on a bank when a thunderstorm approached. When it began to rain, one turtle said to the other, 'I don’t want to get wet,' and jumped into the lake.\"\n\nLake Osakis in west-central Minnesota, the Sauk River, which flows from Lake Osakis, and the towns of Osakis, Sauk Centre, and Sauk Rapids all were named for association historically with a small party of Sac who made camp on the shores of Lake Osakis. They had been banished from their tribe for murder. According to Anishinaabe oral tradition, these five Sac were killed by local Dakota in the late 18th century.\n\nPlace names with \"Sauk\" references include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3271361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3271361", "title": "Summit (meeting)", "text": "Summit (meeting)\n\nA summit meeting (or just summit) is an international meeting of heads of state or government, usually with considerable media exposure, tight security, and a prearranged agenda. Notable summit meetings include those of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, and Joseph Stalin during World War II. However, the term summit was not commonly used for such meetings until the Geneva Summit (1955). During the Cold War, when American presidents joined with Soviet or Chinese counterparts for one-on-one meetings, the media labelled the event as a \"summit\". The post–Cold War era has produced an increase in the number of \"summit\" events. Nowadays, international summits are the most common expression for global governance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52300331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52300331", "title": "Sy Rogers", "text": "Sy Rogers\n\nSy Rogers is an American Christian pastor and formerly part of the ex-gay movement. Rogers was previously with Exodus International.\n"}
{"id": "42232164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42232164", "title": "The World's Billionaires 2010", "text": "The World's Billionaires 2010\n\nThe World's Billionaires 2010 edition was 24th annual ranking of The World's Billionaires by \"Forbes\" magazine. The list estimated the net worth of the world's richest people, excluding royalty and dictators, as of February 12, 2010. It was released online on March 10, 2010. Forty reporters across 13 countries contributed to the list. Carlos Slim and Bill Gates were featured on the cover.\n\nMexican telecommunication mogul Carlos Slim narrowly eclipsed Microsoft's Bill Gates to top the billionaire list for the first time. Slim saw his estimated worth surge $18.5 billion to $53.5 billion as shares of America Movil rose 35%. Gates' estimated wealth rose $13 billion to $53 billion, placing him second. Investor Warren Buffett was third with $47 billion, up form $37 billion. Christy Walton was the highest ranking women, placing 12th overall, with an inherited fortune of $22.5 billion. At age 25, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg was the world's youngest billionaire. American Isaac Perlmutter was among the top newcomers with an estimated fortunate $4 billion acquired in his sale of Marvel Entertainment to Disney.\n\nA total of 1,011 people made the 2010, up from 793 the year before, but short of the all-time record of 1,125. The United States accounted for 403 billionaires, followed by China with 89 and Russia with 62. It was the first time China, which includes Hong Kong, placed second. A total of 55 countries were represented on the 2010 list, including Finland and Pakistan which claimed their first billionaires. China, India, South Korea, and Turkey were among 11 countries that saw a doubling of the numbers billionaires. Eighty-nine women made the list, but only 14 of them were self-made. Of the 89, 12 were newcomers in 2010. Half of those 14 self-made women came from China. \n\nSteve Forbes said the growing number of billionaires was clear sign that the world's economy was recovering from 2009's global financial crisis. His magazine declared that Asia was leading the recovery, with the US lagging behind, based on the billionaire list. The 2010 list featured 164 re-entries and 97 true newcomers. Asia accounted for more than 100 of the new entrants. Overall, just 12% of the list lost wealth since 2009, and 30 people fell off the list. Thirteen others died. The combined net worth of the list was $3.6 trillion, up 50% from 2009's $2.4 trillion, while the average net worth was $3.5 billion. The United States accounted for 38% of the lists, down from 44% the year prior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4347285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4347285", "title": "Tommie Frazier", "text": "Tommie Frazier\n\nTommie James Frazier, Jr., (born July 16, 1974), is a former American college and professional football player who was a quarterback for the University of Nebraska. Frazier is widely considered to be one of the greatest players in the history of college football despite being hampered by injuries for his entire career.\n\nFrazier led his team to consecutive national championships in 1994 and 1995, and is one of five quarterbacks to have done so since the 1950s: Oklahoma's Steve Davis, Nebraska's Jerry Tagge, USC's Matt Leinart, Alabama's AJ McCarron being the others. Frazier is the only one of the five whose consecutive national championships included zero losses or ties. He was named Most Valuable Player of three consecutive national championship games, the only player ever to accomplish that feat. The 1995 Nebraska football team is considered to have been one of the most dominant in the history of American college football and, in a 2006 ESPN.com poll, was voted the best college football team of all time.\n\nFrazier was selected by \"Sports Illustrated\" in 1999 as a back-up quarterback in their \"NCAA Football All-Century Team.\" He was one of six Nebraska Cornhuskers on this 85 man roster, along with Johnny Rodgers, Rich Glover, Dave Rimington, Dean Steinkuhler and Aaron Taylor. CollegeFootballNews.com named Frazier in 2004 as the #33 player on their Top 100 Greatest College Football Players of All-Time list. In 2013, Frazier was elected to the college football hall of fame.\n\nFrazier was not drafted by the NFL due to a blood clot in his left leg, a side effect of Crohn's disease.\n\nFrazier grew up in Palmetto, Florida and attended Manatee High School. He was an option quarterback at Manatee High School who in his final two seasons ran for 1,600 yards and 33 touchdowns, and passed for 2,600 yards and 30 touchdowns. Frazier is married to the former Andrea Stephens, originally from Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The couple has a son named Tommie James Frazier III, and a daughter named Ava.\n\nFrazier is a member of Iota Phi Theta fraternity. He is host of the recently launched \"Tommie Frazier's X's and O's\" (on TouchdownTommie.com) and of \"The Husker Express Radio Show with Tommie Frazier\", which airs on ESPN 590 AM in Omaha, Nebraska.\n\nFrazier received an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Nebraska at Lincoln, and played for the Nebraska Cornhuskers football team. After several years in which the Cornhuskers had suffered blowout losses in bowl games, frequently in Orange Bowl matchups against the University of Miami Hurricanes and the Florida State Seminoles, head coach Tom Osborne changed his recruiting strategy in the early 1990s and began to recruit faster players at all positions. Osborne reportedly shed tears upon receiving the news of Frazier's decision to accept a scholarship from Nebraska. Frazier, rated as the No. 3 college recruit in the country by analyst Tom Lemming, led Nebraska to four consecutive New Year's Day bowl games.\n\nTommie Frazier joined the Nebraska football team as an 18-year-old true freshman in the summer of 1992, at 6-1 and 190 pounds, and began as a backup to senior Mike Grant. Nebraska started the season with a 4-1 record under Grant, but an early 29-14 loss to the second-ranked Washington Huskies set up Frazier's opportunity to take over as the starting quarterback. He did so at Missouri on October 24, a 34-24 Nebraska victory. Frazier gained national recognition with the following two games, both blowout wins broadcast nationally in evening time slots on ESPN. He led the team on Halloween to a 52-7 win against a powerful Colorado team that carried a 9-1-1 record and was led by quarterback Kordell Stewart. Frazier threw sparingly, completing 4 of 12 passes for 55 yards and two touchdowns, but rushed 16 times for 86 of Nebraska's 373 rushing yards. Frazier's arm was showcased the following week, November 7, in a 49-7 win over Kansas. Play-action fakes resulted in long touchdown passes of 36 and 46 yards, and Frazier finished the game with 6 of 11 passes completed, for 161 yards and three touchdowns.\n\nNebraska finished the season with a 9-3 record, and Frazier registered seven starts at quarterback. He played well in the FedEx Orange Bowl on January 1, 1993 against an 11-1 Florida State team led by quarterback Charlie Ward, wide receiver Tamarick Vanover, and linebacker Marvin Jones. Florida State took an early 20-0 lead, but Frazier, who started the game in a shotgun formation, responded with a 41-yard touchdown pass to Corey Dixon and a red zone touchdown pass to Gerald Armstrong. The Seminoles won the game, 27-14.\n\nFrazier played in nine games during the 1992 regular season, and completed 44 of 100 passes for 727 yards and only one interception. He rushed for 399 yards, and scored 17 touchdowns, rushing and passing. His longest run was 52 yards, against Iowa State on November 14.\n\nFrazier helped the Cornhuskers to edge past UCLA on September 18 in what appeared to be a pivotal win that season. He completed 13-of-19 passes for 145 yards and an 11-yard touchdown pass in a 14-13 victory over the Bruins who had the Pac-10's top pass defense. This enabled Nebraska to achieve an undefeated record during the regular season in 1993. Frazier rushed for over 1,000 yards through the regular- and post-season, though the official total is lower due to negative yardage from sacks. He rushed for nine touchdowns, with a longest run of 58 yards, and completed 77 of 162 passes for 12 touchdowns, four interceptions and 1,159 yards in 11 games. His longest pass play of the season was a 60-yard touchdown to wingback Corey Dixon on October 30 against the Colorado Buffaloes.\n\nThe FedEx Orange Bowl game played on January 1, 1994 featured a rematch between Nebraska and Florida State. Frazier, now a sophomore, was pitted against newly crowned Heisman Trophy winner Charlie Ward. A last minute drive by Ward led to a Seminoles field goal that prevented the Cornhuskers from winning the national title. Frazier's 29-yard pass to split end Trumaine Bell positioned Nebraska for a potentially game-winning 45-yard field goal attempt with 0:01 left on the game clock, but the kick sailed wide left, and Florida State won 18-16. Frazier was named Most Valuable Player of the national title game despite the loss, completing 13 of 24 passes for 206 yards and a 34-yard touchdown, and rushing 14 times for 77 yards with a 32-yard run. The Cornhuskers finished the season with an 11-1 record.\n\nFrazier earned consideration as a Heisman Trophy candidate in the first half of the 1994 season, but missed the second half due to a blood clot in his leg. He gave an explosive performance against West Virginia on August 28, in which he completed 8 of 16 passes for 100 yards and ran 12 times for 130 yards, and scored on an 11-yard touchdown pass and runs of 25, 27, and 42 yards in a 31-0 Nebraska victory. His last game of the regular season was on September 24, when he began to experience difficulties in his right calf as the result of blood clotting. Nebraska beat Pacific 70-21, but Frazier played sparingly, and attempted only two passes, with one 26-yard completion.\n\nDropback passer Brook Berringer led the team back to the FedEx Orange Bowl with a 12-0 record, where the Cornhuskers faced the third-ranked Miami Hurricanes in a national championship game. Frazier started the game, but was replaced by Berringer after a deep, end zone throw on Nebraska's initial drive resulted in a turnover. The Hurricanes gained the momentum, and led by 17-7 early in the 3rd quarter. With seven minutes left in the game and the team trailing 17-9, Osborne placed Frazier back in the lineup. Frazier led two touchdown drives that gave Nebraska a 24–17 victory. Nebraska's option plays tired the Miami defenders, and Frazier's fake of the option play enabled fullback Cory Schlesinger to score on 15 and 14 yard runs. The Cornhuskers celebrated their first national title since 1971, and the first of coach Osborne's career. Frazier was again named MVP, as despite the three-month layoff he completed 3 of 5 passes for 25 yards, and ran seven times for 31 yards, including a 25-yard option keeper.\n\nFrazier was back to health in 1995, and led the Cornhuskers through another undefeated campaign. He had a strong arm, though not a particularly accurate one, but by his senior year had improved his passing to the point that he completed 56.4 percent of his passes and had an efficiency rating of 156.1, along with 17 touchdowns. His best passing performance of the season came in a 44-21 victory over Colorado on October 28, in which he had 14 completions in 23 attempts against a 10-2 Colorado Buffaloes team. He threw for 241 yards and two scores in that game, including a 52-yard touchdown to wingback Clester Johnson. This performance put Frazier into consideration for the Heisman Trophy, though he would finish the season as the runner-up to Ohio State's Eddie George in Heisman voting.\n\nThe 1995 roster matched Frazier with a number of running backs that included Lawrence Phillips, Ahman Green, Clinton Childs, Damon Benning, Jeff Makovicka, and Jay Sims, to form a backfield that set an NCAA record 7.0 yards per rushing attempt. The Cornhuskers averaged 399.8 rushing yards and 52.4 points per game. In the regular season, Frazier completed 92 of 163 passes for 1,362 yards and four interceptions, rushed 97 times for 604 yards and 14 touchdowns, and was never sacked. His longest pass play went 76 yards to split end Reggie Baul, against Oklahoma State on August 31.\n\nNebraska finished the regular season with an 11-0 record, and were matched with the 12-0 Florida Gators in the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl on January 2, 1996. Frazier collected his third consecutive national championship game MVP award as the Cornhuskers defeated Florida's \"Fun 'n' Gun\" offense by a score of 62-24. He rushed 16 times for 199 yards, and completed 6 of 14 passes for 105 yards, with a 16-yard TD pass to Phillips. On what appeared to be a routine short-yardage option sweep to the right sideline in the closing seconds of the 3rd quarter, Frazier kept the ball, turned upfield, and broke seven tackles in a career-high 75-yard touchdown run that was named by \"Sports Illustrated\" as one of college football's greatest plays.\n\nFrazier's place in the University of Nebraska's football history is firmly secured after helping the Cornhuskers win national and conference championships—and going 45-4 with 5,476 total yards of offense and 79 touchdowns. With his jersey number being retired in 1996, he was listed as one of the greatest college football players of the century according to \"Sport Magazine\".\n\n\"Sports Illustrated's\" Tim Layden, who covered Frazier in the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl, discussed his leadership and toughness following Nebraska's 62-24 dismantling of the Florida Gators. \"On that memorable 75-yard touchdown run, Frazier broke seven tackles and dragged two Florida defenders several yards before shaking free and rolling down the sideline alone,\" Layden elaborated. \"And after playing brilliantly in both Nebraska's 18-16 Orange Bowl loss to Florida State in 1994 and the Cornhuskers' 24-17 national-title victory over Miami last season, he must now be considered one of the best big-game quarterbacks in college football history—its Joe Montana.\"\n\nAlso, there was a kind, gentle, and humble side to Frazier that spectators were able to witness late that night as CBS' reporter Michele Tafoya handed him the microphone during the postgame celebration following the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl. \"Oh listen, I had a great career at Nebraska,\" Frazier said as this gave the South Floridian the opportunity to open up with gratitude, giving back to the Cornhusker fan base. \"There is no better way to end it; I want to thank all the fans for all the support, and I want to thank all my teammates—most of all important, I want to thank the Lord Jesus Christ above, because without him, I wouldn't have been able to accomplish anything I have.\"\n\nOn May 7, 2013, Tommie Frazier was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame. Frazier became eligible in 2006, and despite his many accomplishments on the field, it took 7 years for the committee to vote him into the Hall of Fame.\n\nFrazier won the MVP award for his 34-18 victory in the East-West Shrine Game, nationally televised on ESPN on January 13, 1996. West Coach Terry Donahue said there was no doubt that Frazier's performance had improved his standing in regards to the NFL draft. \"I think he came here with all kinds of doubts...this game really helped him and somebody is going to invest in him. I am really high on him. When I did the Fiesta Bowl, I said the guy was the most dangerous player in college football and I mean it more now. This guy's dangerous. He's great.\" Frazier completed 11 of 20 passes for 163 yards, rushed six times for 33 yards, scored on a five-yard run, and threw a 52-yard touchdown pass to Kevin Jordan with 5:57 left in the contest.\n\nThe East-West Shrine Game showcased Frazier's skill set for the many NFL scouts in attendance, but before the NFL Scouting Combine, he experienced more problems with blood clots. Recruiting analyst Forrest Davis' publication had listed Frazier's speed in the 40-yard dash as 4.50 seconds when he came out of high school, and his test results at Nebraska had been similar. However, Frazier's February 1996 performance at the NFL Scouting Combine was described as \"pedestrian\" by the February 12, 1996 Atlanta Journal Constitution. Due primarily to health issues, Frazier was not drafted by the NFL, but received an offer from the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League. He signed a contract with the Alouettes on July 15, 1996, and served as a backup to starter Tracy Ham and top reserve Jim Kemp. Frazier played in only one game, on August 30, 1996, a 17-6 loss to the Ottawa Rough Riders in which he came off the bench in the 4th quarter and completed 6 of 17 passes for 55 yards.\n\nFrazier's brief professional football career ended when, on September 4, 1996, he was admitted to Montreal General Hospital with pneumonia. He was given blood thinners because of his history of clots, but spat blood. Frazier needed two weeks to recover, and on his September 17 release, retired from football.\n\nFrazier served as an assistant football coach at Baylor University, and as an assistant director of athletic development at Nebraska. At Baylor, Frazier joined head coach Kevin Steele's coaching staff as a graduate assistant, and worked with the quarterbacks in 1999. He was promoted to a full-time position, and coached Baylor's running backs from 2000 to 2002. Steele failed to improve on Baylor's losing record, and the coaching staff was let go after going 3–9 in 2002. Baylor went 9–36 while Frazier was as an assistant coach for the Bears.\n\nIn 2005, Frazier became the 32nd head football coach at Doane College, in Crete, Nebraska, and held that position for two seasons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "508343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=508343", "title": "W. A. Draves", "text": "W. A. Draves\n\nWilliam August Draves (born \"Wilhelm\") (12 May 1912 — 28 June 1994) was the founder and an apostle of the Church of Christ with the Elijah Message, a successor to the organization founded by former Church of Christ (Temple Lot) Apostle Otto Fetting. Like Fetting, Draves claimed to have received visits and messages from John the Baptist. Although accepted by many Fettingites, Draves was rejected by portions of the Fettingite leadership, leading him to found his own church in 1939. He continued to produce a total of ninety messages from the alleged angelic visitor throughout succeeding decades, serving in the church as an apostle until his death in 1994.\n\nWilliam \"Oley\" Draves was born in Keystone, Nebraska on 12 May 1912, the third of eight children born to Wilhelm August Heinrich Draves (born in a covered wagon April 8, 1877 near Oshkosh, Wisconsin - d. April 9, 1929 Gilcrest, Colorado) and Sylvia Stella Dunwoody (b. February 17, 1884 Valparaiso, Nebraska - d. August 11, 1962 Kingston Township, Caldwell County, Missouri). Draves' paternal grandfather Leopold Friedrich Johann Drews/Draves was born in Coburg, Germany January 10, 1848 and died January 12, 1904 in Dows, Iowa. Raised by what he called \"goodly parents,\" ten-year-old Draves embraced the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (now called the Community of Christ) through baptism in 1922 at an RLDS reunion being held at North Platte, Nebraska. During his subsequent confirmation, Draves testified that the RLDS elder prophesied that he would have \"a peculiar work to do among [his] Brethren\", and that he \"would behold Angels and be considered a prophet in God's Work.\" Days later, a \"prophetess\" at this same reunion reemphasized Draves' destiny to him, predicting that his mother would pass away exactly forty years from that date (August 11, 1922). Much later, Draves reported the prophecy came true — to the day — exactly as specified, confirming to him the truth of what he had experienced in 1922.\n\nThree years after his baptism in the RLDS church, Draves moved with his family to Nucla, Colorado, where they were baptized into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints there. Draves later testified that he was uneasy at the thought of taking water (instead of wine or grape juice) for communion, as is the usual practice among the \"Utah Mormons\", and so he refrained from taking the Sacrament during that time. He reported that he continued to study the Bible and Book of Mormon during these years, preparing himself for an as-yet unknown mission within the Latter Day Saint movement.\n\nIn 1929, a seventeen-year-old Draves heard of a series of revelations being given to Otto Fetting, an apostle in the Church of Christ (Temple Lot) who—as with William Draves—had previously been baptized in the RLDS church. Fetting's messages—allegedly coming from John the Baptist-- excited the Draves family, and they wondered whether Fetting were actually receiving such revelations. Although his father was killed in an April, 1929 in a truck-train collision, Draves' mother invited elders from the Temple Lot church to her home, resulting in the family's baptism by Temple Lot apostle Thomas Barton. According to Draves, Barton's words at his confirmation almost exactly echoed those spoken by the RLDS elder who had confirmed him seven years earlier. Stirred at the prospect of assisting in a sacred construction at the Temple Lot in Independence, Missouri, Draves eagerly made plans to move to the \"Center Place\" and help with the Temple Project which had commenced with a groundbreaking ceremony April 6, 1929. However, a serious crisis brewing within the Temple Lot organization would alter Draves' plans—eventually leading to an alleged prophetic calling and the foundation of his own church organization.\n\nAlthough the Temple Lot church had enthusiastically accepted the first eleven of Fetting's messages, this would not hold true for the twelfth. In verse four of this missive, John the Baptist states that all individuals coming into the Church of Christ must be rebaptized, as \"the Lord has rejected all creeds and factions of men\". While this reflects the practice of the majority of Latter Day Saint denominations (including the Temple Lot church itself, today), it did not reflect the policy of the Temple Lot church at the time, which accepted members during this period from the Reorganized church, certain other Latter Day Saint organizations, and Joseph Smith's pre-1844 church on their original baptisms. This message equally declared Fetting to have been given the same \"keys to the priesthood\" that were given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery on May 15, 1829. \n\nControversy over the meaning and application of Fetting's twelfth message became so great that Fetting himself was \"silenced\" in October 1929 by the Temple Lot organization. Choosing to withdraw rather than continue under such a restriction, Fetting led approximately half of the Church of Christ members (including some of its apostles) to found an organization of his own, which became known as the Church of Christ (Fettingite). Since the main Temple Lot organization retained possession of the Temple Lot and its meetinghouse, Fetting's organization met in members' homes for a considerable period prior to building their own worship facilities.\n\nDraves reported that upon confronting Apostle Barton with his own questions about Fetting and his twelfth message, he was told not to look into it or he would be \"put out of the church\". Draves chose to proceed with his inquiry, which led to his baptism into Fetting's organization in 1931. Later, he was ordained an elder in Fetting's church. Otto Fetting would receive a total of thirty \"messages\" prior to his death in January 1933.\n\nFour years after Fetting's death, in October 1937, Draves claimed that the \"messenger\" had appeared to him with further instruction for the Fettingite church. While many of Fetting's adherents accepted Draves and his missives, some did not, causing a split within the Fettingite organization. Draves and his followers formed the Church of Christ with the Elijah Message, currently (as of 2009) headquartered in Independence, Missouri. This church operates missions in England, Germany, Belgium, Holland, India, Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda. Draves continued to allegedly receive visits and messages from John the Baptist up to his death in 1994.\n\nDraves' messages (ninety in all), together with the earlier ones from Otto Fetting, were published in a book entitled The Word of the Lord Brought to Mankind by an Angel. This book is still used by his organization today.\n\nIn 1940, William Draves authored the following testimonial, which contains interesting details about the alleged \"Messenger's\" appearance:\n\n"}
{"id": "9476172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9476172", "title": "Yésica Toscanini", "text": "Yésica Toscanini\n\nYésica Toscanini (; born 26 March 1986 in Junín, Argentina) is a professional Argentine fashion model.\n\nShe appeared in the 2006 and 2007 \"Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue\"s. She was photographed for the cover of the Argentine edition of Cosmopolitan and twice for \"Para Ti\" magazine. She also appeared in the Abercrombie & Fitch catalog of 2006. She played the high school sweetheart of Enrique Iglesias in the music video for \"Do You Know? (The Ping Pong Song)\". In 2008 she was selected as the girl for the Intimissimi spring–summer ad campaign.\n\nThrough legal counsel she requested, and was granted the right, to have all her images and data to be removed from internet search results in Argentina.\n\n"}
