{"id": "39934059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39934059", "title": "1937 Workers' Summer Olympiad", "text": "1937 Workers' Summer Olympiad\n\nThe 1937 Workers' Summer Olympiad was the sixth edition of International Workers' Olympiads. The games were held from 25 July to 1 August at Antwerp in Belgium. They were originally planned for Barcelona 1936, but cancelled due the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War. \n\n1937 Olympiad was a joint event with the Red Sport International organized Spartakiads. It was the first time as a delegation from Soviet Union took part at the Workers' Olympiad. German athletes no longer participated since the Workers' Gymnastics and Sports Federation of Germany had been banned by the Nazi regime in 1933.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13909393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13909393", "title": "1984–85 Pittsburgh Penguins season", "text": "1984–85 Pittsburgh Penguins season\n\nThe 1984–85 Pittsburgh Penguins season was the team's 18th in the National Hockey League. It marked the debut of Mario Lemieux for the Penguins. Lemieux debuted on October 11, 1984, against the Boston Bruins and scored a goal with his very first NHL shot, on his first shift. Later that season, Lemieux played in the NHL All-Star Game and became the first rookie to be named the All-Star Game's Most Valuable Player. Despite missing seven games during the season, Lemieux scored 100 points and won the Calder Memorial Trophy as the rookie of the year.\n\nBefore the 1984 NHL Entry Draft, Lemieux announced he wanted to play for whoever drafted him. He and his agent were deadlocked with the Penguins and could not negotiate a contract. Because of this, when the Penguins called his name as the first overall draft pick, he did not shake general manager Eddie Johnston's hand or don the Penguins jersey, as is NHL tradition. He claimed he was upset about the contract negotiation, and said that \"Pittsburgh doesn't want [him] bad enough.\" Even though the draft was held in Montreal, over 3,000 fans viewed a broadcast in Pittsburgh's Civic Arena — a typical Penguins game drew less than 7,000 fans at the time. Lemieux's actions upset many fans and led to accusations of arrogance and aloofness. After the draft, Johnston signed Lemieux to a two-year contract for $600,000, plus a $150,000 bonus for signing. Although Lemieux wore the jersey #27 during his time with the Laval Voisins, he wanted to adopt Wayne Gretzky's #99 when he entered the NHL. However, his agent advised him to create his own identity; thus, Lemieux turned #99 upside down and landed on #66, which stuck with him throughout his career.\n\nThe Penguins failed to qualify for the playoffs for the third consecutive year, and finished in last again as well.\n\n\n\nDenotes player spent time with another team before joining the Penguins. Stats reflect time with the Penguins only.\nDenotes player was traded mid-season. Stats reflect time with the Penguins only.\n\n\n\nThe Penguins were involved in the following transactions during the 1984–85 season:\n\nThe 1984 NHL Entry Draft was held on June 9, 1984, in Montreal, Quebec.\n\n"}
{"id": "38023738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38023738", "title": "1991 Mr. Olympia", "text": "1991 Mr. Olympia\n\nThe 1991 Mr. Olympia contest was an IFBB professional bodybuilding competition held in September 1991 at the Walt Disney World Dolphin Hotel in Orlando, Florida.\n\nThe total prize money awarded was $250,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36285219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36285219", "title": "2003 Fed Cup Americas Zone", "text": "2003 Fed Cup Americas Zone\n\nThe Americas Zone was one of three zones of regional competition in the 2003 Fed Cup.\n\n\nThe eight teams were divided into two pools of four teams. The teams that finished first in the pools played-off against those that placed second to determine which team would partake in the World Group Play-offs. The two nations coming last in the pools were relegated to Group II for 2004.\n\n\n\nThe ten teams were divided into two pools of five. The top team from each pool then advanced to Group I for 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36343880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36343880", "title": "2012 Indian Premier League spot-fixing case", "text": "2012 Indian Premier League spot-fixing case\n\nThe 2012 Indian Premier League spot-fixing case was a controversy which arose during the 2012 Indian Premier League and led to the banning of five cricketers. It started when a Hindi news channel, India TV, aired a sting operation which accused five players of seeking money in exchange for spot-fixing. Bans were imposed on all five, with a life-ban on Deccan Chargers's TP Sudhindra, a five-year ban on Kings XI Punjab's Shalabh Srivastava, and a one-year ban on Pune Warriors India's Mohnish Mishra and Kings XI Punjab's Amit Yadav. In addition Abhinav Bali, who was not in contact with any team during the 2012 season, was banned for a year. In the sting operation, Bali claimed to have spot-fixed during the 2009 season. According to the sting operation, some of the players revealed that they had received more money from the franchises' owners than agreed on in the players' auction; they said that this money was black money.\n\nThe sting operation was performed by reporters of India TV Jamshed Khan and Sushant Pathak posing as representatives of various teams. The operation was started in May 2011 and lasted until April of the following year. According to the operation, Srivastava revealed that the money they received from the franchises was black money. According to India TV, he was ready to spot-fix; however, the conversation is only recorded in an audio tape. Bali, who was not in contact with any franchise, claimed to have been involved in spot-fixing during the 2009 season. Mishra claimed that his franchise, Pune Warriors India, gave him around to . This was against the BCCI guidelines; being an uncapped player, Mishra could not receive more than . TP Sudhindra also bowled a no-ball in a domestic match on the wish of the reporter.\n\nThe BCCI carried out a preliminary inquiry headed by Ravi Sawani, the ICC Anti-Corruption Unit's former chief and the current head of the BCCI Anti-Corruption Unit. IPL chairman Rajiv Shukla announced that the IPL would recommend \"strict action against those players who were found guilty\" and that \"the five players have been suspended from all cricket activities with immediate effect.\" BCCI president N. Srinivasan added that the organisation has zero tolerance for corruption and would \"not tolerate this nonsense\".\n"}
{"id": "55853916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55853916", "title": "2017 MAC Championship Game", "text": "2017 MAC Championship Game\n\nThe 2017 MAC Championship Game was a NCAA Division I college football conference championship game for the Mid-American Conference (MAC) Championship that was played on December 2, 2017. The game featured the East Division champion Akron Zips against the West Division champion Toledo Rockets. It was the 21st MAC Football Championship Game and was played in Detroit at Ford Field.\n"}
{"id": "45264070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45264070", "title": "ABC Sports Award of the Year", "text": "ABC Sports Award of the Year\n\nABC Sports Award of the Year was one of the premier sports awards in Australia. From 1951 to 1983, it was called the ABC Sportsman of the Year Award.\n\nThe award was originally voted for by Australian Broadcasting Corporation sports supervisors and the sports editors of major Australian newspapers. After 1983, members of the Australian Sportswriters' Association also voted. The awards were first presented on television in 1957.\n\nSwimmer Dawn Fraser was voted as the best Australian sportsman of the 25 years in 1975 as part of the award silver jubilee celebrations.\n\nIn 1993, there was a merger of the Sport Australia Awards and the ABC Sports Award of the Year with the new award known as ABC Sport Australia Awards. After 1994, the new award removed the ABC from its title. The award was later known as the Australian Sport Awards and ceased in 2006. The main national annual awards are Sport Australia Hall of Fame Awards and the Australian Institute of Sport Awards.\n\nTeam award was introduced in 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "31803791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31803791", "title": "Aji Imbut Stadium", "text": "Aji Imbut Stadium\n\nAji Imbut Stadium or Perjiwa Stadium, before the official name revealed also known as Tenggarong Madya Stadium, is a multi-purpose stadium in Tenggarong, Kutai Kartanegara, East Kalimantan, Indonesia. Completed in 2008, it is mainly used mostly for football matches. The stadium has a capacity of 35,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "34593665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34593665", "title": "Alfred D. Boyer Stadium", "text": "Alfred D. Boyer Stadium\n\nAlfred D. Boyer Stadium is a baseball venue in Macomb, Illinois, United States. It is home to the Western Illinois Leathernecks baseball team of the NCAA Division I Summit League. \n\nThe stadium opened on May 6, 2006 and has a seating capacity of 500. The stadium is named for Alfred D. Boyer, Western Illinois Class of 1972, whose $150,000 donation allowed the facility to be built. The venue features a press box, chairback seating, a Daktronics scoreboard, and 60-foot long dugouts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1941440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1941440", "title": "Anaheim Convention Center", "text": "Anaheim Convention Center\n\nThe Anaheim Convention Center is a major convention center in Anaheim, California. It is located across from the Disneyland Resort on Katella Avenue. The original components, designed by Adrian Wilson & Associates, opened in July 1967—including a basketball arena followed shortly by the convention hall. It holds many events, like VidCon, BlizzCon, Anime Expo, D23 expo, WonderCon, NAMM Show, competitions, etc. In addition to hosting various types of conventions, the Anaheim Convention Center was used to host the wrestling during the 1984 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe center has subsequently undergone six major expansions (1974, 1982, 1990, 1993, 1999–2000, 2016-2017). It is the largest exhibit facility on the West Coast.\n\nOriginally, the arena was home to the Anaheim Amigos of the American Basketball Association during the first ABA season, 1967–68. The franchise relocated to the Los Angeles Sports Arena and became the Los Angeles Stars immediately thereafter; the team eventually moved to Salt Lake City and became the Utah Stars, capturing the 1970–71 ABA Championship. The Stars' subsequent fan support in Utah set the foundation for the NBA's Utah Jazz. The San Diego Friars of WTT played some of their home matches in the arena between 1975 and 1977. In 1978, the Anaheim Oranges of WTT used the arena as their primary home venue. The arena was also home to the California Surf of the NASL for one indoor season (1979–80).\n\nAccording to frequent news reports, the largest exposition held at the Convention Center in recent years has been the Winter NAMM Show. This music-equipment convention (trade only, not open to the general public) had 1,560 exhibitors and a record-breaking 88,100 attendees during the 2008 show. The NAMM Show has been running at the Anaheim Center since 1977, except for a 3-year break in 1998–2000 while the Convention Center underwent major renovations. In 2008, news reports indicated that NAMM's long-term lease with the Anaheim Convention Center authority would end in 2010, and NAMM was applying pressure to the City of Anaheim to further expand and improve the convention center.\n\nThe Anime Expo was hosted at the Anaheim Convention Center in 1996 and again from 2003 through 2006 and was one of the convention center's biggest public events.\n\nBlizzard Entertainment holds BlizzCon at the venue. In 2005, BlizzCon used the northern two conference halls, (and the arena for a concert one evening). In 2007 and 2008, it used three conference halls. In 2009, it used four conference halls. While tickets to the 2007 event sold out in 3 days, tickets to the October 2008 event sold out \"within minutes,\" and tickets to the August 2009 event sold out in \"56 seconds\". Tickets to the 2010 Blizzcon reportedly sold out within 30 seconds.\n\nAnother large convention held at the Center is the Medical Design and Manufacturing Show, held shortly after Winter NAMM.\n\nThe venue served as the site for wrestling at the 1984 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe venue hosted the Big West Conference's men's and women's college basketball tournaments from 2001 to 2010 and hosts the 76 Classic basketball tournament.\n\nIt was briefly home to the Anaheim Arsenal of the basketball league now known as the NBA G League, who relocated to Springfield, Massachusetts for the 2009–10 season and since 2014 have played in Grand Rapids, Michigan as the Grand Rapids Drive.\n\nDuring the 1992 Los Angeles riots, the Los Angeles Clippers were forced to move Game 4 of their NBA playoff series versus the Utah Jazz to the Convention Center.\n\nVidCon has been held at the Anaheim Convention Center since its third annual event in 2012. The new venue offered a much larger capacity than the previously used Hyatt Regency Century Plaza hotel in Los Angeles. WonderCon is hosted annually at the convention center since 2012, with the exception of 2016 when it was held at the Los Angeles Convention Center.\n\nThe 2012 VEX Robotics World Championship was also held in the convention center. Almost 600 teams were present at the competition which utilized two of the convention center's exhibit halls, as well as the convention centers Arena. In 2013 the VEX Robotics World Championship returned to the Anaheim Convention Center, occupying 3 exhibit halls as well as the arena. There were over 700 teams present, representing 24 nations. Each competed to be crowned the World Championship within their respective divisions.\n\nDisney's inaugural D23 Expo, a biennial convention for Disney fans, was held at the Anaheim Convention Center in 2009. The convention center has hosted all subsequent D23 Expos.\n\nLucasfilm's \"Star Wars\" Celebration fan gathering was held at the convention center in 2015.\n\nMineCon was held at the venue in September 2016.\n\nIt hosts the 2017 World Weightlifting Championships.\n\nThe arena will host indoor volleyball during the 2028 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe convention center hosted the 2017 FBLA-PBL National Leadership Conference.\n\nThe convention center and arena will host the California State Future Farmers of America leadership conference in 2018, 2019, and 2020. 8,000 students from across the state of California are expected to attend the 4 day event.\n\nHost of the 2018 Scentsy Family Reunion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39693", "title": "Bobsleigh", "text": "Bobsleigh\n\nBobsleigh or bobsled is a winter sport in which teams of two or four teammates make timed runs down narrow, twisting, banked, iced tracks in a gravity-powered sleigh. The timed runs are combined to calculate the final score.\n\nThe various types of sleds came several years before the first tracks were built in St. Moritz, Switzerland, where the original bobsleds were adapted upsized luge/skeleton sleds designed by the adventurously wealthy to carry passengers. All three types were adapted from boys' delivery sleds and toboggans.\n\nCompetition naturally followed, and to protect the working class and rich visitors in the streets and byways of St Moritz, bobsledding was eventually banned from the public highway. In the winter of 1903/1904 the Badrutt family, owners of the historic Kulm Hotel and the Palace Hotel, allowed Emil Thoma to organise the construction of the first familiarly configured 'half-pipe' track in the Kulm Hotel Park, ending in the village of Cresta. It has hosted the sport during two Olympics and is still in use today.\n\nInternational bobsleigh competitions are governed by the International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation, also known as FIBT from the French . National competitions are often governed by bodies such as the United States Bobsled and Skeleton Federation and Bobsleigh Canada Skeleton.\n\nThe name is derived from the action some early competitors adopted of bobbing back and forth inside their sleds to increase speed.\n\nAlthough sledding on snow or ice had long been popular in many northern countries, the origins of bobsleighing as a modern sport are relatively recent. Its foundation began when hotelier Caspar Badrutt (1848–1904) convinced some English regulars to remain through the entire winter at his hotel in the mineral spa town of St. Moritz, Switzerland. Keeping them entertained with food, alcohol, and activities, he quickly established the concept of \"winter resorting\". Badrutt has done it because he was annoyed his regular English clientele were only staying at his hotel during the summer months. It only took a couple of years for wintering at Badrutt's St Moritz hotel to become very fashionable in Victorian Britain. But increased numbers led some guests to search for new diversions. In the early 1870s some adventurous English guests began adapting boys' delivery sleds for recreational purposes. However, they soon began colliding with pedestrians in the icy lanes, alleyways and roads of St Moritz.\n\nGuests soon began to invent \"steering means\" for the sleds. This led to the development of the bobsleigh (bobsled): two cresta's (skeleton sleds) attached together with a board that had a steering mechanism at the front. However, the impetus to steer the sleds permitted longer runs through the town. Longer runs also meant higher speeds on curves. Local sentiments varied about these informal competitions but eventually complaints grew so vociferous that Badrutt was forced to take action. His solution was to build a basic natural ice run for his guests near the town. Badrutt had worked hard to popularize wintering in the mountain resort and was worried customers would stop coming due to boredom. He also did not want to make enemies in the town from locals injured by bobsleds. He opened the world's first natural ice half-pipe track in the late 1870s.\n\nFormal competitions started down the natural ice Cresta Run in 1884, which was built in an annual partnership between guests and local people. The run, which is still in operation , has served as a host track for skeleton at two Winter Olympics (1928 and 1948). As one of the few natural weather tracks in the world, it does not use artificial refrigeration. It is not known how much the original track evolved in the early years as the three sports matured and stabilized. The first club formed in 1897, and the first purpose-built track solely for bobsleds opened in 1902 outside St Moritz. Over the years, bobsleigh tracks evolved from straight runs to twisting and turning tracks. The original wooden sleds gave way to streamlined fiberglass and metal ones.\n\nThe \"International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation\" (FIBT) was founded in 1923. Men's four-man bobsleigh appeared in the first ever Winter Olympic Games in 1924, and the men's two-man bobsleigh event was added in 1932. Though not included in the 1960 Winter Olympics, bobsleigh has featured in every Winter Olympics since. Women's bobsleigh competition began in the US in 1983 with two demonstration races in Lake Placid, New York, one held in February and the second held during the World Cup races in March 1983. Women's two-woman bobsleigh made its Olympic debut at the 2002 Winter Olympic Games. Bobsleigh is also contested at American, European, and World Cup championships.\n\nGermany and Switzerland have proven the most successful bobsleighing nations measured by overall success in European, World, World Cup, and Olympic championships. Since the 1990s Germans have dominated in international competition, having won more medals than any other nation. Italy, Austria, United States and Canada also have strong bobsleigh traditions.\n\nBobsleighs can attain speeds of , with the reported world record being .\n\nModern tracks are made of concrete, coated with ice. They are required to have at least one straight section and one labyrinth (three turns in quick succession without a straight section). Ideally, a modern track should be long and have at least fifteen curves. Speeds may exceed , and some curves can subject the crews to as much as 5 \"g\".\n\nSome bobsleigh tracks are also used for luge and skeleton competition.\n\nSome tracks offer tourists rides in bobsleighs, including those at Sigulda, Latvia; Innsbruck-Igls, Austria; Calgary, Alberta, Canada; Whistler, British Columbia, Canada; Lillehammer, Norway; Cesana Pariol, Italy; Lake Placid, US; Salt Lake City, Utah, US and La Plagne, France.\n\nModern day sleighs combine light metals, steel runners, and an aerodynamic composite body. Competition sleighs must be a maximum of long (4-crew) or long (2-crew). The runners on both are set at gauge. Until the weight-limit rule was added in 1952, bobsleigh crews tended to be very heavy to ensure the greatest possible speed. Nowadays, the maximum weight, including crew, is (4-man), (2-man), or (2-woman), which can be reached via the addition of metal weights. The bobsleighs themselves are designed to be as light as possible to allow dynamic positioning of mass through the turns of the bobsleigh course.\n\nAlthough bobsleigh crews once consisted of five or six people, they were reduced to two- and four-person sleighs in the 1930s. The crew has a pilot, a brakeman, and pushers. Athletes are selected based on their speed and strength, which are necessary to push the sleigh to a competitive speed at the start of the race. Pilots must have the skill, timing, and finesse to steer the sleigh along the path, or \"line\", that will produce the greatest speed.\n\nIn modern bobsleighs, the steering system consists of two metal rings that actuate a pulley system located in the forward cowling that turns the front runners. For example, to turn left, the pilot would pull the left ring. Only subtle steering adjustments are necessary to guide the sled; at speeds up to , anything larger would result in a crash. The pilot does most of the steering, and the brakeman stops the sled after crossing the finish line by pulling the sled's brake lever.\n\nWomen compete in women's bobsleigh (which is always two-woman) and men in both two and four-man competitions. Women were confirmed as being able to compete in any four-\"man\" bobsleigh event, as from 25 September 2014, either as part of a mixed-sex team or an all-female team.\n\nIndividual runs down the course, or \"heats\", begin from a standing start, with the crew pushing the sled for up to before boarding; though the pilot does not steer, grooves in the ice make steering unnecessary until the sled leaves the starting area. While poor form during the initial push can lose a team the heat, it is otherwise rarely, if ever, decisive. Over the rest of the course, a sleigh's speed depends on its weight, aerodynamics, runners, the condition of the ice, and the skill of the pilot.\n\nRace times are recorded in hundredths of seconds, so even seemingly minor errors – especially those at the beginning, which affect the remainder of the heat – can have a measurable impact on the final race standings.\n\nThe men's and women's standings for normal races are calculated over the aggregate of two runs or heats. At the Olympic Winter Games and World Championships, all competitions (for both men and women) consist of four heats.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "5381298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5381298", "title": "Bolas criollas", "text": "Bolas criollas\n\nBolas criollas is a traditional team sport from Venezuela, very popular in the Llanos and most rural regions. It is one of the most representative icons of Llanero culture. Its origins can be traced back to traditional European sports, such as bocce and pétanque.\n\nTwo teams of two participants equipped with eight heavy balls throw in turns and attempt to place them as close as possible to a much smaller metal ball. The team that reaches a maximum of 100 points in several attempts wins the match.\n\nIt is played in a court shaped as a large level rectangle, built of flattened earth (typically rich in sand or clay), clear of trees or visible obstacles. The court must keep a 3:2 proportion ratio and its actual dimensions may vary, but an approximate size of is preferred.\nThe court is usually enclosed with logs, wooden boards or concrete slabs. On occasion an internal string perimeter fitted at no more than from the enclosure signals valid gaming ground. The solid balls (roughly diameter, made of synthetic material) are coloured red and green respectively to separate each team. The small steel or iron ball called \"mingo\" has a diameter no greater than and is used as a marker. At the beginning of a match, a previously drawn member of either team throws the \"mingo\" from one established end of the court (called the \"calzador\") to the opposite end. If the \"mingo\" rests in the opposite half of the court, the toss is valid. From then, participants of each team alternatively toss one ball each from the \"calzador\" attempting to make their balls rest as close to the \"mingo\" as possible (or touching it). After all balls have been thrown, a designated judge awards points to the winning team based on their balls' proximity to the \"mingo\". If the match is not ended by a winning score, the whole routine is repeated from the alternate end (for ease, as there is no need to carry the heavy balls back to the original place). A valid toss in \"bolas criollas\" is done with the palm of the hand facing \"downward\" (in opposition to bowling, for example), and the arm must swing in a graceful arc, body resting on one flexed leg and the other leg extended. Running to gain momentum is allowed, as long as the player does not overshoot the \"calzador\".\n\nPoints are awarded in the following fashion: the judge identifies the winning colour as the ball that is closest to the \"mingo\". An imaginary circle with the \"mingo\" in the center is drawn, its radius being the center of the first ball of the opposite colour. Any balls of the winning colour that fall within this circle are counted as points. A maximum of eight and minimum of zero (a draw) can be counted by each \"set\". As measurements can be imprecise and somewhat subjective in loose soil, discussions frequently arise. The judge may require a bit of string (to use as a \"ruler\") or other tools, and more than one judge may be required for unbiased decisions. When not officially competing, participants may use steps (counting the number of steps placed in front of the other - tip to heel to the \"mingo\"), outstretched hands, twigs or whatever means available, giving rise to somewhat hilarious situations.\n\nThough a simple game, experienced \"bolas criollas\" players display great skill at their throws. Several valid moves and tricks are commonly exploited that completely alter the course of a game.\n\nThe first report about the arrival of this game to Venezuela mention that Spanish monks brought it with the conquistadores. Since 1930, it has become widely popular, and during the first National Sports Games event in 1956, it was elevated to a sport, and official rules were set. Since then, it has been one of the most popular attractions in this event. The National \"Bolas Criollas\" Championship takes place every year during the months of August and September. The game is also very popular in Colombia (mostly in the city of Cúcuta) and in Cuba. It is played without distinction by all social classes and genders.\n"}
{"id": "42923581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42923581", "title": "Boys Union Club", "text": "Boys Union Club\n\nBoys Union Club is an association football club from Nepal. They play at 25,000 capacity Dasarath Rangasala Stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "2913693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2913693", "title": "Brampton Canadettes Easter Tournament", "text": "Brampton Canadettes Easter Tournament\n\nBrampton Canadettes Easter Tournament is an annual 3½ day tournament for women's and girls' hockey teams. It has been held every year since 1967 and is hosted by the Brampton Canadettes in Brampton, Ontario. It bills itself as \"The World's Largest Tournament Girls Hockey.\" Teams of all ages and categories compete. Teams from across Canada and the United States and from as far as England, Switzerland, Japan, Kazakhstan and Russia attend this international tournament.\n\nIncluding championship finals, over 600 games are played. Each team competes in a minimum of 3 games each over the course of the tournament. There is no limit on the number of teams in a division. Thousands of players and spectators attend the tournament each year. \n\nThe Intermediate AA and Midget AA divisions are highly scouted by local and American colleges and universities seeking recruits for varsity teams.\n\n"}
{"id": "2256257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2256257", "title": "Chaparral Cars", "text": "Chaparral Cars\n\nChaparral Cars was a pioneering American automobile racing team and race car developer that engineered, built, and raced cars from 1963 through 1970. Founded in 1962 by American Formula One racers Hap Sharp and Jim Hall, it was named after the roadrunner, a fast-running ground cuckoo also known as a \"chaparral bird\".\nTroutman and Barnes were builders of the original Chaparral race cars (later referred to as Chaparral 1). Jim Hall purchased two Chaparral 1s to race. When Hall and Sharp began building their own cars, they asked Troutman and Barnes if they could continue to use the Chaparral name. That is why the Hall/Sharp cars are all named Chaparral 2s (models 2A through 2J for sports cars/CanAm cars, and the 2K which was the 1979–1982 Indycar). Despite winning the Indianapolis 500 in 1980, they left motor racing in 1982. Chaparral cars also featured in the SCCA/CASC Can-Am series and Endurance racing.\n\nJim Hall was a leader in the innovation and design of spoilers, wings, and ground effects. A high point was the 1966 2E Can-Am car. The 2J Can-Am \"sucker car\" was the first \"ground-effects\" car.\n\nThe development of the Chaparral chronicles the key changes in race cars in the 1960s and 1970s in both aerodynamics and tires. Hall's training as an engineer taught him to approach problems in a methodical manner, and his access to the engineering teams at Chevrolet and at Firestone was instrumental in changing race car aerodynamics and handling from an art to an empirical science. The embryonic data acquisition systems created by the GM research and development group aided these efforts. An interview with Hall by Paul Haney illustrates many of these developments.\n\nIn 1957, Hall raced the front-engined Chaparral (retroactively called the \"Chaparral 1\") through 1962, bought from Troutman and Barnes (like the Scarab, the Chaparral 1 cars were built in California by Troutman and Barnes). Hall and Hap Sharp extensively modified their Chaparral, and eventually decided to build their own car. They obtained permission from Trouman and Barnes to use the Chaparral name, which is why all of Hall's cars are called Chaparral 2s.\n\nThe first Chaparral 2-series was designed and built to compete in the United States Road Racing Championship and other sports car races of the time, particularly the West Coast Pro Series races that were held each fall. Hall had significant \"under the table\" assistance from GM, including engineering and technical support in the development of the car and its automatic transmission (this is evidenced by the similarity between the Chevy Corvette GS-II \"research and development\" car and the Chaparral 2A through 2C models).\n\nFirst raced in late 1963, the Chaparral 2 developed into a highly competitive car in the Can-Am series in 1966 and 1967. Designed for the 200 mile races of the CanAm series, it was also a winner in longer endurance races. In 1965 it shocked the sportscar world by winning the 12 Hours of Sebring in a pouring rain storm, on one of the roughest tracks in North America.\n\nThe Chaparral 2 featured the innovative use of fiberglass as a chassis material. The Chaparral 2C had a conventional aluminum chassis.\n\nIt is very difficult to identify all iterations of the car as new ideas were being tested continually.\n\n\nAlongside the development of aerodynamics was Hall's development of race tires. Jim Hall owned Rattlesnake Raceway adjacent to his race shop; the proximity allowed him to participate in much of Firestone's race tire development.\n\nA two-article series in \"Car and Driver\" magazine featured Hall's design theories. The article turns speculation about vehicle handling into applied physics. Hall's theories were the precursor to the elaborate data collection and management of current racing teams.\n\nThe 2D was the first closed cockpit variant of the 2-series, designed for endurance racing in 1966. It won at 1000 km Nürburgring in 1966 with Phil Hill and Joakim Bonnier driving. It also competed in the 1966 24 Hours of Le Mans, withdrawing after 111 laps. The Chaparral 2D was equipped with a 327 cubic inch displacement (5.3 liter) aluminum alloy Chevrolet engine producing 420 horsepower, and the car weighed only 924 kg.\n\nThe 2E was based on the Chevrolet designed aluminum 2C chassis and presented Hall's most advanced aerodynamic theories to the racing world in the 1966. The 2E established the paradigm for virtually all racing cars built since. It was startling in appearance, with its radiators moved from the traditional location in the nose to two ducted pods on either side of the cockpit and a large, pivoting variable-incidence wing mounted several feet above the rear of the car on struts. The wing was the opposite of an aircraft wing in that it generated down-force instead of lift and was attached directly to the rear suspension uprights, loading the tires for extra adhesion while cornering. A ducted nose channeled air from the front of the car up, creating extra down-force as well. By depressing a floor pedal that was in the position of a clutch pedal in other cars, Hall was able to feather, or flatten out, the \"normally\" negative-incidence wing's angle when down-force was not needed, such as on a straight section of the track, to reduce drag and increase top speed. In addition, an interconnected air dam closed off the nose ducting for streamlining as well. When the pedal was released, the front ducting and wing returned to their full down-force position. Until they were banned many sports racing cars, as well as Formula One cars, had wings on tall struts, although many were not as well executed as Hall's. The resulting accidents from their failures caused movable/pivoted wings mounted on the suspension, as well as movable/pivoted aerodynamic devices of any variety, to be outlawed.\n\nThe 2E scored only one win, at the 1966 Laguna Seca Raceway Can-Am with Hill driving. Hall stuck to an aluminum 5.3 liter Chevrolet engine in his lightweight racer, while the other teams were using 6 to 7 liter iron engines, trading weight for power.\n\nThe 2E was a crowd favorite and remains Hall's favorite car.\n\nIn the 2F Hall applied the aerodynamic advances of the aluminum 2E to the older fiberglass chassis closed-cockpit 2D for the 1967 racing season. A movable wing mounted on struts loaded the rear suspension while an air dam kept the front end planted. The radiators were moved to positions next to the cockpit. An aluminum replaced the 5.3 liter engine of the 2D. While always extremely fast, the extra power of the larger engine was too much for the automatic transmission to handle and it broke with regularity. After solving the transmission problems, the 2F scored its only win on 30 July 1967 in the BOAC 500 at Brands Hatch with Hill and Mike Spence driving. After this race, the FIA changed its rules, outlawing not only the 2F, but also the Ford GT40 Mk.IV (winner at Le Mans that year) and the Ferrari 330 P3/4 and 365 P4 (winner at Daytona, second at Le Mans).\n\nAs with the 2D, the 2F raced wearing Texas license plates.\n\nThe 1967 2G was a development of the 2E. It featured wider tires, and a 427 aluminum Chevrolet V-8 engine. While on par with its competitors in terms of power, the lightweight 2C chassis was stretched to the limit and it was only Hall's driving skill that kept the car competitive. For the 1968 Can-Am series, still larger tires were added to increase grip.\n\nHall's racing career was effectively ended in a severe crash at the Stardust Grand Prix Can-Am race when he rear ended the slow moving McLaren of Lothar Motschenbacher, although he did drive in the 1970 Trans-Am Series while fielding a team of Camaro Trans-Am cars.\n\nNever one to be complacent, Hall noted that the increasing down-force also created enormous drag. Seeking a competitive edge, the 2H was built in 1969 as the replacement for the 2G to minimize drag, rather than maximize down-force. However, the anticipated gains in speed were more than offset by the reduced cornering speeds and the car was consistently slower than anticipated.\n\nA failure, it eventually was fitted with a huge wing.\n\nThe most unusual Chaparral was the 2J. On the chassis' sides bottom edges were articulated plastic skirts that sealed against the ground (a technology that would later appear in Formula One). At the rear of the 2J were housed two fans (sourced from a military tank engine) driven by a single two stroke twin cylinder engine. The car had a \"skirt\" made of Lexan extending to the ground on both sides, laterally on the back of the car, and laterally from just aft of the front wheels. It was integrated with the suspension system so the bottom of the skirt would maintain a distance of one inch from the ground regardless of G forces or anomalies in the road surface, thereby providing a zone within which the fans could create a partial vacuum which would provide a downforce\non the order of 1.25–1.50 G of the car fully loaded (fuel, oil, coolant). This gave the car tremendous gripping power and enabled greater maneuverability at all speeds. Since it created the same levels of low pressure under the car at all speeds, down-force did not decrease at lower speeds. With other aerodynamic devices, down-force decreases as the car slows down or achieves too much of a slip angle, both of which were not problems for the \"sucker car\".\n\nThe 2J competed in the Can-Am series and qualified at least two seconds quicker than the next fastest car, but was not a success as it was plagued with mechanical problems. It ran for only one racing season, in 1970, after which it was outlawed by the Sports Car Club of America (SCCA). Although originally approved by the SCCA, they succumbed to pressure from other teams, McLaren in particular, who argued that the fans constituted \"movable aerodynamic devices\", outlawed by the international sanctioning body, the FIA, a rule first applied against the 2E's adjustable wing. There were also complaints from other drivers saying that whenever they drove behind it the fans would throw stones at their cars. McLaren argued that if the 2J were not outlawed, it would likely kill the Can-Am series by totally dominating it — something McLaren had been doing since 1967. A similar suction fan was used in Formula One eight years later on the Brabham BT46B, which won the 1978 Swedish Grand Prix, but Brabham reverted to the non-fan BT46 soon afterwards due to complaints from other teams that the car violated the rules. The car was found to be within technical specifications allowing the victory to remain.\n\nThe 2K was a Formula One-inspired ground effect Indy car designed by Briton John Barnard. Debuting in 1979 with driver Al Unser Sr., it went on to win six races in 27 starts over three seasons. Its greatest success came in 1980, when Johnny Rutherford won both the Indy 500 and the CART championship.\n\nChaparral started fielding Indy cars in 1978 with Al Unser driving the No. 2 First National City Traveler's Checks Lola T500-Cosworth DFX. Unser then managed to win the 1978 Indianapolis 500. Later in the season Unser added wins at the California 500 at Ontario Motor Speedway and the Schafer's 500 at Pocono International Raceway, as of 2013 this remains the only time a driver has won the Fuzzy's Premium Vodka Triple Crown. Despite the three wins Unser lost the championship to Tom Sneva (who failed to win a race). With the formation of CART Hall decided to field a car for Unser in that series. Unser now drove the No. 2 Pennzoil Lola T500-Cosworth DFX. At the 1979 Indianapolis 500 Hall, along with fellow CART boardmen Roger Penske, Pat Patrick, Teddy Mayer, Ted Field, and Robert Fletcher were not allowed to compete in the race due to the race being part of the USAC National Championship. At the same Hall was going to introduce the Chaparral 2K-Cosworth DFX. A lawsuit occurred and the six car owners were allowed to field their cars. In the race Unser lead for 89 of the 200 laps. But on lap 105 an engine fire broke out and Unser's bid for a second consecutive, and fourth overall, win was halted. Unser later won the season-ending Miller High Life 150 at Phoenix International Raceway. Unser finished fifth in the CART standing and was ineligible for USAC points.\n\nBy 1980 Unser had left the team due to disagreements with Hall, and Johnny Rutherford took over driving duties. The only change to the car was that the 2K was now numbered four. Rutherford won five races that season, including the 1980 Indianapolis 500, along with the Datsun Twin 200 at Ontario Motor Speedway, the Red Roof Inn 150 at the Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course; the Norton 200 at Michigan International Speedway, and the Tony Bettenhausen 200 at the Wisconsin State Fair Park Speedway. Rutherford went on to win the 1980 IndyCar season and CRL championships. In 1981 Rutherford returned with the No. 1 Pennzoil Chaparral 2K-Cosworth DFX. Rutherford pulled off a win in the season-opening Kraco Car Stereos 150 at Phoenix International Raceway. The rest of the season proved to be inconsistent as Rutherford dropped to fifth in points. The team also competed in the opening round of the USAC Gold Crown season, the 1981 Indianapolis 500, Rutherford led for three laps early on but fuel pump issues ended the team's day after only 25 laps. By the 1982 IndyCar season the 2K was getting outdated and the best result for the car was a fourth-place finish at the Miller High Life 150 at Phoenix International Raceway. After four races Rutherfoed was ranked 18th in points. By the time the Norton Michigan 500 at Michigan International Speedway came around the team was using a March 82C-Cosworth DFX purchased from Bob Fletcher Racing. Rutherford's results managed to improve as he took his season best finish of third at the AirCal 500K at Riverside International Raceway. Rutherford went on to finish 12th in points. The team also competed at the USAC Gold Crown season finale, the 1982 Indianapolis 500, where Rutherford started 12th and finished 8th.\n\nIn the 1991 CART season Hall returned to Indy cars in conjunction with VDS Racing, with the team being called Hall-VDS Racing with John Andretti driving the No. 4 Pennzoil Z-7 Lola T91/00-Ilmor-Chevrolet Indy V8. The team managed to get a victory in their debut, the Gold Coast IndyCar Grand Prix on the Surfers Paradise Street Circuit. The team also got a second-place finish at the Miller Genuine Draft 200 at the Milwaukee Mile. Also, at the 1991 Indianapolis 500 Andretti got a fifth-place finish. At the end of the season Andretti was ranked a career-best eighth in points. In the 1992 CART season Andretti drove the No. 8 Pennzoil Z-7 Lola T92/00-Ilmor-Chevrolet Indy V8 for the team. However, Andretti's best finish came at the Pioneer Electronics 200 at the Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course where he came in fourth place. At the end of the year Andretti finished eighth in points again. He then left the team at the end of the season to compete in the NHRA Winston Drag Racing Series for Jack Clark. So in the 1993 CART season the team fielded Teo Fabi in the No. 8 Pennzoil Lola T93/00-Ilmor-Chevrolet Indy V8. Fabi's best finish was fourth, at the Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach on his way to an 11th-place finish in points. In the 1994 CART season Fabi drove the No. 11 Pennzoil Reynard 94i-Ilmor D. Fabi's best results that season were a pair of fourth-place finishes at the at Michigan International Speedway and the at Road America. Fabi went on to end the season ranked ninth in points. At the end of the season he left to drive for Forsythe Racing. For the 1995 CART season VDS dropped out of the venture and the team became known as Hall Racing and rookie Gil de Ferran was signed on to pilot the No. 8 Pennzoil Reynard 95i-Ilmor-Mercedes-Benz IC108. In four of the first six races de Ferran managed to qualify in the top-10. Although he only scored two points during that time. His season soon turned around starting with a pole position at the Budweiser Grand Prix of Cleveland at Cleveland Burke Lakefront Airport where he was leading with five laps to go when he collided with the lapped car of Scott Pruett taking him out of the race. De Ferran avenged this later in the season when he won the season-ending Toyota Monterey Grand Prix at Laguna Seca Raceway. He finished 14th in points and also won the Jim Trueman PPG IndyCar World Series Rookie of the Year Award. For the 1996 IndyCar season de Ferran returned to drive the No. 8 Pennzoil Reynard 96i-Honda Indy V8. De Ferran qualified on the pole at the 1996 Toyota Grand Prix of Long Beach. H also won the Medic Drug Grand Prix of Cleveland and finished sixth in the final points standings. Despite the recent success Hall closed up the Indy car team for good and de Ferran drove for Walker Racing in the 1997 CART season. Hall ended up getting 13 wins and two championships in USAC and CART sanctioned Indy car races.\n\nIn 2005, a wing of the Permian Basin Petroleum Museum in Midland, Texas was dedicated to the permanent display of the remaining Chaparral cars and the history of their development by Abilene, Texas native Jim Hall. To aid in keeping these cars in an optimal state of performance, live runnings are performed on a semi-regular basis at the museum grounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31014479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31014479", "title": "Doris Williams Stadium", "text": "Doris Williams Stadium\n\nDoris Williams Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Buchanan, Liberia. It is currently used mostly for football matches, on club level by Mighty Barrolle of the Liberian Premier League. The stadium has a capacity of 3,000 spectators.\n"}
{"id": "46597779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46597779", "title": "FC Obod", "text": "FC Obod\n\nFC Obod Tashkent () is a Uzbekistani football club based in Tashkent.\n\nThe club was formed in 2012 and started to play in Uzbekistan Second League. Since 2013 the club played in Uzbekistan First League. In 2014 \"Obod\" finished third in League. Year later in 2015, the club won First League and promoted to highest tier, Uzbek League for 2016 season.\n\nShoxrux Norhonov\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5624816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5624816", "title": "Game 6", "text": "Game 6\n\nGame 6 (stylized as Game6) is a 2005 American film directed by Michael Hoffman, first presented at the Sundance Film Festival, released in the United States in 2006, and starring Michael Keaton. It follows a fictional playwright, Nicky Rogan, on the day he has a new stage play opening which is also the same day as the sixth game of the 1986 World Series is played. It realizes a 1991 screenplay by Don DeLillo, with a soundtrack written and performed by Yo La Tengo.\n\nNicky Rogan has written several plays and has achieved success. It's now opening night of his latest effort and everyone around him assure him that this one will be the best yet. But as opening hour approaches, Rogan falls prey to doubts and fears, egged on by another playwright whose last work was trashed by the local newspaper's new drama critic, Steven Schwimmer. He eventually lets those fears drive him to resolve to kill the critic (who he assumes will also trash his play) and he procures a handgun with which to perform the deed.\n\nInstead of attending the play's opening night, Rogan spends time in a bar, accompanied by a lady cab driver and her grandson; earlier in the evening she misidentified Rogan as a local, small-time hoodlum but he doesn't correct her misidentification.\n\nThey watch the most crucial Game 6 of the World Series playoff between the Boston Red Sox and the New York Mets. The Sox have won 3 games and could clinch the title by winning Game 6 but Rogan, a lifelong Sox fan, knows how easily the team can lose when they should win. He spends the evening waiting for the inevitable, even though the Sox are lead most of the time. When the inevitable does occur (due to an unexpected pair of errors at the end of the final inning), he snaps and leaves to take out his rage on the newspaper critic.\n\nRogan not only finds the critic but sees him in the early stages of deflowering the playwright's daughter. He begins firing wildly and is finally calmed when he learns the critic is equally devastated by the Sox's loss. They end up together, watching an interminable rerun of the final error on a small television set in the critic's apartment.\n\n\nThe film was made as an independent effort, largely as a labor of love, with all the \"name\" players working for little more than scale (Keaton's salary was $100/day, for instance). Filming was completed in 20 days, and the filming budget was $500,000. Most of the filming occurred in New York City.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes 41 critics gave \"Game 6\" a 61% positive review, with an average rating of 5.9/10. Leonard Maltin gave the film two and a half stars, describing it as \"a writer’s film if there ever was one”.\n\n"}
{"id": "1472923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1472923", "title": "Gay Meadow", "text": "Gay Meadow\n\nGay Meadow was the home ground of Shrewsbury Town football club in Shropshire, England. Just outside the town centre, on the banks of the River Severn, it opened in 1910.\n\nThe ground closed at the end of the 2006-07 Football League season and the club moved to a new stadium, provisionally titled The New Meadow, on the outskirts of the town.\n\nLocal legend says that over 22,000 were inside the stadium for the league match against Wrexham A.F.C on 21 August 1950, although the official figure is given as 16,000. The official record attendance is 18,917, on 26 April 1961 against local rivals Walsall. Because it had only one entrance/exit road, in the years following the Taylor Report the capacity of the ground was reduced from 16,000 to around 8,000.\n\nCenturies before Shrewsbury Town occupied the site, Gay Meadow was known locally for the fairs, carnivals and circuses which took place there. The origin of the name is not entirely clear, although it is widely believed to related to its use for entertainment purposes. An alternative origin states that the land was originally owned by the Gay family.\n\nIn 1740, stuntman Robert Cadman, a 'steeple-flyer', attempted to 'fly' across the River Severn using a rope attached to St Mary's Church at one side and a tree at Gay Meadow some two hundred feet below. Tragically for Cadman, the rope broke, and he plunged to his death.\n\nIn 1910, Shrewsbury Town, were looking for a new ground to play at, having been told they could no longer use the Army-owned pitch at Copthorne Barracks. A consortium bought the site and leased it to the club. Despite objections from the local hospital, the Salop Infirmary, who feared crowd noise might disturb patients across the River Severn, the first official match took place on 20 August 1910, when a crowd of up to 1,000 watched a pre-season practice match between the 'Reds' and the 'Whites'.\n\nThe first league game at Gay Meadow was between Shrewsbury Town and Wolverhampton Wanderers Reserves, on 10 September 1910. Shrewsbury lost the match 2-1, with 'Shinton' scoring the first league goal for Wolves, and Billy Scarratt scoring Shrewsbury Town's first goal at the ground. Shrewsbury's first win at Gay Meadow occurred two weeks later against Halesowen.\n\nThe ground did not see major improvements until the mid-1950s, when trees which lined the road to Gay Meadow (The Narrows) were felled to improve access. It was around this time that the club's supporters launched a floodlight committee in order to raise £12,000 for the installation of floodlights. On 25 November 1960, a crowd of 5,448 saw Shrewsbury Town beat Stoke City 5-0 in a match to mark the installation of the lights. The previous Saturday, over 10,000 witnessed the turning on of the lights in the game against QPR which was a 3.15 kick off. The floodlights formed part of the Shrewsbury skyline for almost 47 years.\n\n1965 saw new offices built at the club, with the Riverside terrace being built in the early 1970s. This terrace would gain legendary status amongst home fans in years to come.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the club promotion to the old Second Division required further improvements. The old 600 seater Station Stand was demolished and a new 4,500 capacity centre stand built. Until the ground's demolition in 2007, this was the last major building work to take place at the ground. Minor changes in the 1990s included a new Executive Suite, the controversial demolition of the ground's wooden scoreboard, and, following the Taylor Report, the removal of perimeter fencing with the exception of the away Station end.\n\nIn its latter years, Gay Meadow was seen as a picturesque 'traditional' football ground, with three sides being terraced, standing areas and little change in the final 25 years of its existence. It was also arguably one of the most picturesque grounds in the Football League.\n\nOn the banks of the River Severn, the ground was surrounded by trees and parkland, with the town centre towering above the ground on the hilltop behind. A number of the town's landmarks, including Shrewsbury Castle and Shrewsbury Abbey were visible from the ground.\n\nFor many years, Shrewsbury coracle maker Fred Davies would sit in his coracle during Shrewsbury Town home matches and retrieve stray footballs from the River Severn. Although Davies died long ago, his legend is still associated with the club.\n\nDue to the ground being rather small and cramped, between the river and a major railway junction, there was little scope for expansion or renovation. Access, via a small side street known as 'The Narrows', was poor and one of the main reasons the ground's capacity was reduced following the Taylor Report. Problems with evacuation and access for emergency services was one of the reasons cited by the club for moving to a new ground.\n\nStation End - So-called due to its proximity to the town's railway station. A partially covered terrace, normally allocated to visiting fans, although it was also a home terrace until the 1970s. Its capacity, depending on the away allocation, ranged from 1,500 to 2,000. Unusually it kept the bottom half of its perimeter fencing right up until its final game, most other stadia in the country having removed theirs following the Taylor Report. It was also notable for housing the oldest working football turnstile in the country, although this was only used on rare occasions. With the ground closed, the old turnstile sold for £3,050 at an auction staged at the ground on 17 June 2007, to a local Shrewsbury Town fan.\nRiverside Terrace - So-called due to its position on the bank of the River Severn. The Riverside was a partially covered terrace running the length of the pitch, with a refreshments bar situated halfway along the terrace and roof mounted TV gantry (used only occasionally for high-profile matches). This part of the ground was where the most lively element of the home crowd were to congregate, with the most vocal of home chanting and support coming from supporters from 'The Riverside' with frequent exchanges with visiting fans often heard.\nFamously, stray footballs were often kicked over this stand into the Severn, to be retrieved by a man in a coracle named Fred Davies, (not to be confused with the manager of the same name).\n\nWakeman (or Tech) End - So-called due to the Wakeman School (formerly a technical college) being directly behind it. It was an open terrace, with the windows of the school overlooking the pitch. This side of the ground along with the Riverside Terrace formed one large standing area for home fans, with movement unrestricted between the two. This often resulted in home fans congregating behind the goal on the Wakeman End when Shrewsbury Town were attacking in that direction - leaving the north part of the Riverside Terrace practically empty. The combined capacity of the Riverside and Wakeman Terraces was between 3,000 and 3,500 - depending on the size of the away following.\n\nThe east side of the ground was a covered, all-seater section. Limited seating for away fans was also available. The stand also boasted executive seating for VIPs, sponsors and guests, a TV gantry and press offices. The east side of the ground was also adjacent to the club's offices, function rooms and official player's/supporter's bar. Although consisting of a single stand generally referred to as the 'Main' stand, it was split into four enclosures, as follows:\n\nWakeman Stand - So-called due to its proximity to the Wakeman School. A covered, all seater stand for 1,000 home supporters.\n\nCentre Stand - So-called due to forming the central part of the seated area. A covered, all seater stand for 1,000 home supporters. It also housed the directors' box.\n\nFamily enclosure - This was a designated area for families consisting of 700 seats, with admission via designated 'family' tickets.\n\nStation Stand - A seated section for away fans, holding roughly 250 away fans\n\nWhilst Gay Meadow was well regarded by fans, and traditionalists within the English game, the ground was in a cramped location between the River Severn and a major railway junction. In addition, access to the ground was restricted to a narrow side street known locally as 'the Narrows. The poor access, and poor scope for evacuation in the case of emergency, meant that the capacity of the ground was cut to 8,000 by the early 1990s following stricter ground safety regulations that followed the Bradford City stadium fire of 1985 and the Taylor Report which followed the Hillsborough disaster of 1989.\n\nIn addition, the ground's proximity to the river meant the ground often flooded in the autumn and winter months, leading to matches being postponed. Flooding also caused damage to offices and changing rooms.\n\nShrewsbury had been considering relocation since 1986, when plans were drawn up for a new stadium to the north of the town and Sainsbury's lined up to build a supermarket on the site of the old stadium. However, with Shrewsbury relegated from the old Second Division in 1989 and Sainsbury's developing elsewhere in the town, the plans were abandoned. In the 1990s, plans were made to redevelop Gay Meadow; however, with the poor access, capacity could rise to no more than 10,000.\n\nIn 1999, recently elected chairman Roland Wycherley released plans for a new stadium, provisionally titled the New Meadow, a 10,000 all-seater stadium on the southern outskirts of the town between the Meole Brace and Sutton Farm districts.\n\nAmongst other things, opposition from residents delayed the planning and building process until 2006, with the ground not being completed until July 2007. The New Meadow has a 10,000 all-seated capacity, with the scope to expand to beyond 40,000. In addition, the ground has far better road links, more car parking, and, being well away from the river, is unlikely to suffer from flooding.\n\nTo fund the move, the Gay Meadow site was sold to property developers. The final season at Gay Meadow was 2006-07.\n\nGay Meadow's final FA Cup tie was a goalless draw against Hereford United on 11 November 2006 in the first round (Shrewsbury lost the replay at Edgar Street).\n\nThe last team to win a professional match at Gay Meadow were Shrewsbury's biggest rivals Wrexham, who won 1-0 at the second-to-last league game at the ground on 24 April 2007.\n\nThe final League game played at Gay Meadow was against Grimsby Town on 5 May 2007, a 2-2 draw, with Grimsby equalising in the final minute. To commemorate the day, a parade of former Shrewsbury Town greats was organised, with commemorative T-shirts being handed out to fans free of charge with donations for local charities instead. Defender Kelvin Langmead took the honour of being the final Shrewsbury Town goalscorer at the ground, although Grimsby's Nick Fenton scored the ground's final professional goal.\n\nThe final senior competitive match held at Gay Meadow was against Milton Keynes Dons on 14 May 2007, the first leg of the League 2 Play-offs. The game finished 0-0.\n\nBefore demolition, fans were given the opportunity to play on the pitch, in specially arranged friendly matches, and an auction was staged at the ground on 17 June 2007, where over 200 items were auctioned. In addition, 500 unsold seats were purchased by League of Wales side Caernarfon Town, to be used in the redevelopment of a stand at their ground, the Oval.\n\nThe final football match to be staged at Gay Meadow was the club's annual friendly fixture between Shrewsbury's 'Away Supporters' team and the Shrewsbury Town backroom staff on Friday 22 June. Alan Roberts, the club's police liaison officer, scored the only goal of the game, and thus the last goal at the ground.\n\nIn September 2007 demolition of the stadium began, and by October 2007 the ground was reduced to rubble. The site has been earmarked for residential building, with 150 flats scheduled to be built on the site. Initially, it was believed building work would commence in early 2008.\nIn 2009, building started on a number of luxury flats and it was completed in 2014.\n\nWith the ground almost completely demolished, a charity zip-wire event was held on 14 October 2007. Over 100 townspeople 'flew' from the St.Mary's area of the town centre, over the River Severn to land on the Gay Meadow pitch, emulating Robert Cadman's heroic attempt in 1740. In addition, sections of the Gay Meadow turf was sold for a small fee for Severn Hospice, the organising charity. This was the final public event to ever take place at Gay Meadow before the re-development of the site.\n\nPhotographs\n\nWebsite for New Meadow\n\nWebsite for Goodbye Gay Meadow book including 360 panoramics by Matthew Ashton\n"}
{"id": "25808695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25808695", "title": "Gibraltar Petanque Association", "text": "Gibraltar Petanque Association\n\nThe Gibraltar Petanque Association (GPA) is a small pétanque federation in the British overseas territory of Gibraltar, with the aim of promoting the sport within the territory. The association is made up of approximately 80 members (ranging from ages 13 to 93) with its premises located at the Giralda Gardens on the city walls of Gibraltar along Smith Dorrien Avenue. Its facilities consist of four floodlit pistes.\n\nThe Federation holds their own competitions regularly. These are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21060095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21060095", "title": "Greece national handball team", "text": "Greece national handball team\n\nThe Greece national handball team is the national handball team of Greece and is controlled by the Hellenic Handball Federation.\n\nGreece has a long tradition in handball. First of all, Greece made it to the handball 2005 World Cup and the 2004 Olympics where they beat Brazil, Korea and won against Egypt in a close game. In the Olympics they lost to eventual champions Croatia, and finished sixth in the tournament. In the World Cup they finished in the sixth position as well.\n\nThe Greece international squad at the 2017 World Championship Qualification\n"}
{"id": "3737478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3737478", "title": "Hambly Arena", "text": "Hambly Arena\n\nThe Hambly Arena was an indoor ice rink in Oshawa, Ontario, also known as the Oshawa Arena. It operated from 1930 to 1953, and was primarily used as an ice hockey venue for the Oshawa Generals. The Hambly Arena was built as a replacement to the wooden Bradley Arena, which burned down in 1928. The Hambly Arena was located at the northeast corner of Bond Street West and Arena Street, beside the Oshawa Creek and south of Kinsmen Stadium.\n\nThe construction of the Oshawa Arena was led by the Hambly brothers, Ernie and Harold, who teamed up with Samuel McLaughlin, Paul Clark, and the Ontario Hockey Association to complete the arena. The Hamblys were local businessmen, who ran the Coca-Cola bottler and distributor in Oshawa, and McLaughlin was the founder of the McLaughlin Motor Car Company. Construction began during the Great Depression in October 1929, and was finished in January 1930, with an estimated cost of $100,000. The arena was designed with steel roof trusses to provide an unobstructed view of an artificial ice surface that was 194 feet by 85 feet. The arena sat 3,750, and held 5,000 including standing room.\n\nThe Oshawa Majors began play in 1930, and the team was reborn as the Oshawa Generals in 1937. While playing at the Hambly Arena, the Generals won seven consecutive J. Ross Robertson Cup titles, and three Memorial Cup championships from 1937 to 1944. \n\nThe Hambly Arena burned to the ground on the morning of September 15, 1953. When the fire was extinguished, the only remains were parts of the brick facade and twisted steel, in a pile of rubble. The estimated loss was about $350,000, only partially covered by insurance. The Generals lost all of their equipment and uniforms in the fire. Due to the financial losses, and since the fire occurred only one week before the season was scheduled to begin, players were dispersed and team operations put on hiatus. \n\nThe former site of the arena was occupied by a car dealership in 1955. The Oshawa Civic Auditorium opened as the city's new primary hockey venue in 1964.\n\n"}
{"id": "12602589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12602589", "title": "John Adams (drummer)", "text": "John Adams (drummer)\n\nJohn Adams (born October 9, 1951) is a dedicated fan of the Cleveland Indians, a Major League Baseball team based in Cleveland, Ohio. Adams has played his bass drum in the bleacher seats during nearly every Indians home game since 1973, which has brought him notoriety and recognition from the Indians and other organizations. The Indians pay for two season tickets for Adams and his drum, he has been involved in two ceremonial first pitches, and he is the only fan for whom the Indians have dedicated a bobblehead day.\n\nAdams first drummed at an Indians game on August 24, 1973, at Cleveland Stadium, at a game in which the Indians beat the Texas Rangers, 11–5. Adams, who was 21 years old at the time, has stated that he brought his bass drum to that first game because he wanted to add to the noise of \"seat banging\", a tradition at Cleveland Stadium in which fans would bang the swivel seat of their chairs against the chair's base during tense moments in the game. But Adams preferred to sit in the bleachers, where there were no seats to bang.\n\nDuring the game, Bob Sudyk, a reporter for the \"Cleveland Press\", interviewed Adams and asked if he was going to drum again at the following game. Adams said no, but Sudyk wrote in his article that he would. According to Adams, \"not to make a liar out of Bob, I showed up with my drum, and then I came to the next game and the next game and the next game.\" The Indians' promotions director at the time, Jackie York, also approached Adams and asked him to play at every game. Adams formally declined but continued to attend games with his drum.\n\nEver since, Adams has sat in the highest bleacher seat in left-center field with his bass drum; he has missed only about 40 home games in 43 seasons. Adams played at Cleveland Stadium until October 1993, when the Indians played their last game there. Next spring he moved with the team to its new ballpark, Jacobs Field (renamed Progressive Field in 2008). Adams played the drum at his 3,000th game on April 27, 2011. During his tenure, he has witnessed Indians pitcher Len Barker pitch a perfect game on May 15, 1981, and witnessed the Indians play in the 1995, 1997, and 2016 World Series.\n\nAdams still uses the same 26-inch-wide bass drum he began with in 1973. He has stated that he bought it as part of a set for $25 at a garage sale. It has the same head on the side of the drum that Adams does not beat, but Adams has stated that he replaces the other side about twice a year and also goes through about three sets of mallets each year. During games, Adams tends to drum at particular moments: when the Indians take the field at the beginning of the game, if the Indians have runners in scoring position, if the Indians are tied or trailing near the end of the game, or if they are winning at the top of the ninth inning. Because of his drumming, Adams became a celebrity and his drum was soon nicknamed Big Chief Boom-Boom, by Indians radio announcer Herb Score. It has also helped him meet politicians, including U.S. senators and a Pakistani government official.\n\nAdams has been recognized by the Cleveland Indians and other organizations for his long commitment to the team. On October 4, 2007, he threw out the ceremonial first pitch for the Indians' first game in the 2007 American League Division Series, against the New York Yankees. After Adams drummed at his 3,000th game on April 27, 2011, the Indians celebrated it the following Saturday, on April 30, 2011, by incorporating Adams in the ceremonial first pitch and putting on a pregame parade featuring Adams' fellow Indians fans carrying bongos, snares and plastic toy drums. For the ceremonial first pitch, Adams swung at the ball with his drum from home plate after it was thrown by former Indians player Joe Charboneau. Soon after the move to Jacobs Field, Cleveland began a record-breaking run of sellouts, which ended at 455 games in April 2001. Soon after, the Indians retired the number 455 in honor of their fans and Adams helped unveil the commemorative sign.\n\nAdams once paid for his tickets (one for himself, and one for his drum), but the Indians now pay for two of his season tickets in honor of the contributions he has made to the ballpark atmosphere. Adams buys an additional two season tickets. In 2006, the Indians gave out bobblehead dolls depicting Adams, making him the only fan for whom the team has dedicated a bobble head day.\n\nIn 2008, he won the Hilda Award, which is awarded annually by The Baseball Reliquary \"to recognize distinguished service to the game by a baseball fan\" and is named in memory of Hilda Chester, a dedicated fan of the Brooklyn Dodgers. In April 2012, Great Lakes Brewing Company, a Cleveland-based brewery and brewpub, released a product called Rally Drum Red Ale in honor of Adams and Opening Day. In April 2015, \"The Plain Dealer\" columnist Tim Warsinskey wrote a column suggesting that a statue of Adams be built in Cleveland in his honor.\n\nAdams also has a plaque located by his seat just under the left field scoreboard commemorating his tenure as the Indians' \"#1 Fan\".\n\nAdams lives in Brecksville, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. He attended both Saint Ignatius High School in Cleveland and Parma Senior High School in Parma, Ohio, where he played bass drum in band before graduating high school in 1969. He graduated college from Cleveland State University, where he intends to pursue his master's degree. He is divorced and does not have any children. Adams worked on computer systems for AT&T until being laid off in October 2016. He has been teaching an aquatics class for students with disabilities, without pay, at Cleveland State University since 1978. Adams has also volunteered his time as a member of the Kiwanis service club and the community emergency response team in his hometown and has taught CPR and water safety.\n"}
{"id": "3302857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302857", "title": "Kuntz Memorial Soccer Stadium", "text": "Kuntz Memorial Soccer Stadium\n\nKuntz Memorial Soccer Stadium is an outdoor soccer facility located in Indianapolis. It is the location of the IHSAA State Soccer finals. It contains two FIFA-regulated game fields and seats 5,257 people. Various championship games have been played in this facility. It was the site of the 1987 Pan American Games soccer tournament and three U.S. Open Cup finals. The United States men's national soccer team played three matches here in 1987 and 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "36841309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36841309", "title": "Kyrgyzstan at the 1996 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Kyrgyzstan at the 1996 Summer Paralympics\n\nTwo male athletes from Kyrgyzstan competed at the 1996 Summer Paralympics in Atlanta, United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "8074727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8074727", "title": "Lenin Stadium (Khabarovsk)", "text": "Lenin Stadium (Khabarovsk)\n\nLenin Stadium () is a multi-use stadium in Khabarovsk, Russia. It is currently used mostly for association football matches and is the home ground of FC SKA-Khabarovsk. The stadium holds 15,200 people. It is named after communist revolutionary Vladimir Lenin.\n"}
{"id": "42403103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42403103", "title": "Lesotho Paramilitary Forces", "text": "Lesotho Paramilitary Forces\n\nLesotho Paramilitary Forces is a Lesotho football club based in Maseru. It is based in the city of Maseru in the Maseru District.\n\nIn 1983 the team has won the Lesotho Premier League.\n\nCurrently the team plays at the 1000 capacity Ratjomose Stadium.\n\n"}
{"id": "3567215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3567215", "title": "Libya at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Libya at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nLibya (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nMen's Marathon\n\n"}
{"id": "7716880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7716880", "title": "Liechtenstein at the 1968 Winter Olympics", "text": "Liechtenstein at the 1968 Winter Olympics\n\nLiechtenstein competed at the 1968 Winter Olympics in Grenoble, France.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57886171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57886171", "title": "List of African Olympic medalists", "text": "List of African Olympic medalists\n\nThis is the list of Olympic medalists from African countries:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36418907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36418907", "title": "List of cathedrals in Bermuda", "text": "List of cathedrals in Bermuda\n\nThis is a list of cathedrals in the British Overseas Territory of Bermuda.\n\n"}
{"id": "7856702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7856702", "title": "Madagascar at the 1968 Summer Olympics", "text": "Madagascar at the 1968 Summer Olympics\n\nMadagascar competed at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Mexico. Four competitors, all men, took part in six events in two sports.\n\n\n\n\nOne cyclist represented Madagascar in 1968.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8622275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8622275", "title": "Majed Abu-Sidu", "text": "Majed Abu-Sidu\n\nMajed Abu Sidu (; born on 1 November 1985) is a Palestinian footballer who plays as a defender for Kuwaiti football club Al-Yarmouk. Abu Sidu is a member of the Palestine national football team and participated in the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifying.\n"}
{"id": "52485114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52485114", "title": "Metolius Climbing", "text": "Metolius Climbing\n\nMetolius Climbing is an American rock climbing gear manufacturer. Named after the Metolius River in Oregon, USA, it is headquartered in the city of Bend, Oregon.\n\nThe company was started in 1983 by Doug Philips in his garage. \nIt got its impetus through a group of committed climbers who came together to push their limits at Smith Rock in Oregon's high desert. \nClimbing gear available in the 1980s was limited, so they decided to design and build their own equipment, which quickly grew into a business. In 2010 Metolius is employing about 45 people in Bend, many of them climbers. Company mission statement is “by climbers for climbers”. In the last decade, some of the production like manufacturing of carabiners were moved overseas.\n\nMetoilus is one of the leading manufacturers of climbing gear, including rock climbing, big wall and bouldering gear. In 2016 it was manufacturing wide range of climbing equipment, including: spring-loaded camming devices, climbing nuts and hexcentrics, belay devices, portaledges, harnesses, carabiners, slings, helmets, haul bags, crash pads, and artificial climbing holds.\n\n"}
{"id": "24948901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24948901", "title": "Mongolia at the 2008 Asian Beach Games", "text": "Mongolia at the 2008 Asian Beach Games\n\nMongolia competed at the 2008 Asian Beach Games held in Bali, Indonesia from October 18, 2008 to October 26, 2008. Mongolia finished with 1 gold medal.\n"}
{"id": "7432146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7432146", "title": "National College Baseball Hall of Fame", "text": "National College Baseball Hall of Fame\n\nThe National College Baseball Hall of Fame is an institution operated by the College Baseball Foundation serving as the central point for the study of the history of college baseball in the United States. In partnership with the Southwest Collection/Special Collections Library located on the campus of Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Texas, the Hall of Fame inducts former collegiate players and coaches who have met selection criteria of distinction.\n\nThe College Baseball Foundation was formed in 2004 as a non-profit organization, with the dual aims of continuing the Brooks Wallace Award and creating a national college baseball hall of fame. The inaugural Wallace Award was bestowed in 2004, but the inaugural Hall of Fame induction class was not chosen until 2006. As of 2006, organizers hoped to have a permanent building constructed by 2008. As of January 2013, the Foundation had raised approximately $7 million of the $13 million goal, after receiving a $5 million grant from the Moody Foundation. A ceremonial groundbreaking was held in June 2015 in Lubbock. In April 2017, the Foundation announced that it would no longer pursue constructing a museum in Lubbock.\n\nThe 2006 inaugural class for the National College Baseball Hall of Fame consisted of five former coaches and five former players. Annually thereafter, through 2016, additional players and coaches were enshrined. In May 2017, organizers cancelled that year's annual “Night of Champions” induction ceremony.\n\nSelection criteria and categorization has changed over time.\n\nThe original criteria, established in 2006, allow for recognition of:\n\n\nThe top ten voter-getters were selected for induction to the Hall of Fame. Veteran and Historical Committees could nominate individuals from the pre-1947 era, however there was no differentiation in how approved nominees were recognized.\n\nIn 2009, a small school category was added, \"featuring players and coaches from NAIA, NCAA Divisions II and III, and two-year colleges.\"\n\nIn 2011, a Legends and Pioneers Committee was created, \"...designed to provide recognition to black pioneers in college baseball and to honor outstanding players and coaches whose careers at Historically Black Colleges and Universities began prior to 1975.\" Also, nominees would now be required to reach a threshold of votes, rather than automatically inducting the top ten vote-getters.\n\nIn 2012, voting was revised with five ballot categories: Vintage Era (pre-1964) players and coaches, small school players, small school coaches, 1964–2001 players, and NCAA Division I coaches.\n\nThe induction ceremony for the inaugural class occurred on July 4, 2006. The “Night of Champions” was usually held the day after the Brooks Wallace Award winner was announced; the most recent induction ceremony was held in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "28296181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28296181", "title": "New Zealand Masters", "text": "New Zealand Masters\n\nThe New Zealand Masters is a darts tournament that has been held annually since 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "1126759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126759", "title": "North East Stars F.C.", "text": "North East Stars F.C.\n\nNorth East Stars Football Club is a Trinidad and Tobago professional football club, based in Arima, Trinidad, that plays in the TT Pro League. The team plays its home games in Arima Velodrome.\n\nThe team joined the Professional Football League beginning in the 2002 season, having previously played in Trinidad's ECFU league. The team joined the league with the explicit intention of representing the north-east of Trinidad, previously underrepresented in football circles.\n\nThe team was terrible in their first season, finishing last in the league with a dismal record of 4 wins, 2 ties, and 22 losses. They improved dramatically in 2003, however, jumping from last to third, as they went 19–7–10. They improved even further in 2004, surprising everyone by winning the league with a dominant 14–5–2 performance. They finished 5th in 2005.\n\nThe club's Jerren Nixon finished the 2004 season as the league's leading scorer with a staggering 31 goals, 17 in front of second place Randolph Jerome's 14.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3654738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3654738", "title": "Occoneechee Speedway", "text": "Occoneechee Speedway\n\nOcconeechee Speedway was one of the first two NASCAR tracks to open. It closed in 1968 and is the only dirt track remaining from the inaugural 1949 season.\n\nIt is located just outside the town of Hillsborough, North Carolina.\n\nThe Occoneechee farm occupied the land in the late 19th century. The farm was named after the Occaneechi Indians that lived in the area in the late 17th century and late 18th century. The landowner, Julian S. Carr, raced horses, and built a half mile horse racing track.\n\nBill France noticed the horse racing track and expanse of open land while piloting his airplane. On the site of the earlier horse track, he built a 0.9-mile dirt track in September 1947, two months before NASCAR was organized. In its earliest days, Fonty Flock and his brothers Bob and Tim dominated the track. Louise Smith became NASCAR's first female driver at the track in the fall of 1949.\n\nThe Occoneechee Speedway hosted stock car racing legends such as Fireball Roberts, Richard Petty, Ned Jarrett and Junior Johnson.\n\nThe Sunday racing schedule prompted grassroots opposition in Hillsborough, and the final race was a Richard Petty victory on September 15, 1968.\n\nThe Occoneechee Speedway site is now heavily forested with pines and sycamores. The grandstands are still visible, as is much of the mile–long oval track. It was placed on the National Register of Historic Places and now comprises with over of trails. A walking trail was built in 2003 that crisscrosses the clay track.\n\nOcconeechee, along with North Wilkesboro Speedway, is one of the inspirations for the Thomasville Speedway in the Pixar movie \"Cars 3\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38895315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38895315", "title": "Paul Burnham", "text": "Paul Burnham\n\nPaul Lawrence \"Leafy\" Burnham (born ) is a cricket supporter from Twickenham, London, England. He is one of the founding members of the Barmy Army of supporters of the England cricket team.\n\nBurnham was educated at Hampton School. Burnham has a sports and business degree and in 1984, he started working for British Airways in their cargo division. He is nicknamed \"Leafy\" which came from his time working at British Airways and was originally \"tea leaf\", the cockney rhyming slang for \"thief\". He has played cricket for Old Hamptonians.\n\nIn 1994, Burnham travelled to Australia to watch The Ashes. There he met a number of other English supporters who were noted for singing songs, despite England losing. They received press attention which was positive in Australia but negative in the British press. Burnham then trademarked the name \"Barmy Army\" in the United Kingdom and Australia and created a number of replica shirts with it on them which sold out. \n\nAfter the Ashes, Burnham started running the Barmy Army on a part-time basis while supplementing his income by working as a bookmaker and writing for various cricket magazines. In 1997, he negotiated the Barmy Army's first sponsorship deal with Vodafone to support the Barmy Army's tour of the West Indies. He started working for the Barmy Army full-time in 2002 as the organizer after creating a website and travel agency for them. Burnham also set up the Barmy Army's operations office in Sunbury-on-Thames. Burnham has also been involved in charity fundraisers. He has also set rules for participants of the Barmy Army while with them, most notably banning Barmy Army members from using vuvuzelas in stadiums.\n"}
{"id": "31810863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31810863", "title": "Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series", "text": "Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series\n\nThe Red Bull Cliff Diving World Series, established in 2009 and created by Red Bull, is an annual international series of cliff diving events in which a limited number of competitors determine the Cliff Diving World Series winner.\n\nDivers jump from a platform at a height ranging from 26–28 m (85–92 ft). Competitions are held in a limited number of venues around the globe.\n\nEvery athlete scores a number of points in every competition as distributed here:\n\nIn 2012 the Series introduced a new point system that was continued to be used also during the 2013 season.\nCliff Diving World Series champion is the athlete who scored the highest cumulated number of points in all competitions during the season.\n\nThe top 6 divers in the overall ranking at the end of the season will pre-qualify automatically for the next season.\n\n divers jumped at 4 different sites: Wang Long Bay, (Phi Phi Don), Maya Bay, (Phi Phi Lee), Viking Cave, Lading Bay\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13021604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13021604", "title": "Redheugh Park", "text": "Redheugh Park\n\nRedheugh Park (pronounced \"red-yuff\"), a football stadium in Gateshead, England, was built in 1930 when South Shields F.C. moved to Gateshead from Horsley Hill and became Gateshead AFC. It was their home for more than 40 years.\n\nThe stadium offered terracing all round. The Main Stand was a two-thirds pitch length seated stand (purchased from a greyhound stadium in Carlisle) with covered standing extensions added on either side. Opposite the Main Stand was a large covered terrace that ran the full length of the ground. The North end of the ground had a small covered terrace, whilst the opposite Ropery Road (South) End was a small uncovered terrace, which latterly included a large totalisator scoreboard introduced for greyhound racing.\n\nIn 1930 Gateshead Council set about finding a suitable site for Gateshead AFC to relocate to. Sites at Low Fell and Sheriff Hill were considered, but were deemed too far out of town. The chosen location was in the Teams area of Gateshead, a worked out clay pit (known as Johnsons Clay Hole) edged by Ropery Road and Derwentwater Road. The holes, tunnels and craters on the site were filled by lorries full of the town's refuse.\n\nRedheugh Park was officially opened by Mr Sutcliffe, the Football League's then Vice-President on 30 August 1930 when Gateshead AFC played their first-ever Football League game winning 2-1 against Doncaster Rovers in front of 15,545 spectators. Greyhound racing at Redheugh Park commenced in 1937, which brought a boost to the football club's financial position and subsequently eased the burden for the upkeep of the stadium. However the inclusion of the Greyhound track reduced the size of the playing area, the terracing at either end of the ground and subsequently the capacity.\n\nWith the loss of Football League status in 1960 and the football club's subsequent continual slide down the leagues, a further heavy blow was dealt with the cessation of greyhound racing at the stadium in 1966. This put both Redheugh Park and Gateshead AFC in serious financial troubles. Other sources of income were investigated, which included allowing showmen to have a small fair on the car park, allowing advertising to be placed on the wall facing Askew Road (permission was refused) and even converting the refreshment bar into a transport café to catch passing trade. In 1967 Gateshead AFC made a vain attempt to fill the void the Greyhound racing had left by staging speedway racing at the stadium.\n\nIn 1937 greyhound racing was introduced to Redheugh Park and the ground underwent renovation including the reduction in size of the playing pitch. Terracing was erected all around the stadium and the main stand had its back to the Redheugh Iron and Steel works. The main stand was purchased from the Carlisle track (presumed to be the one at Harraby) and almost extended the whole length of the pitch. The first nights racing took place on 23 November 1937 organised by the Redheugh Park Greyhound Racing Company. The track is opened by Major, Alderman W J Pickering in front of an attendance of 8,000 and the first race is won by Lovely Lucerne over 450 yards.\n\nThe circumference was 370 yards and the track was to race mainly under National Greyhound Racing Club rules despite short spells as an independent track.\n\nA totalisator board was erected on the south end terrace and tote turnover in 1947 was £686,782 a substantial amount for a capacity of 12,000. The distances changed to 440 yards and 600 yards and handicaps were very popular. The track raced under the ‘combine’ tag in the mid-fifties which effectively meant that they were allowed to host C-Licence owner-trainer race nights.\n\nThe greyhound racing ended on 7 January 1966.\n\nBy the early 1970s Redheugh Park had become run down. This, combined with a fire in the 1971–72 season, saw Gateshead AFC move to the Gateshead Youth Stadium (now known as the Gateshead International Stadium). However the new venue proved no easier on the finances of the club, bringing the liquidation of Gateshead AFC in late August 1973. By 1972 Redheugh Park was in a derelict condition. Weed infested with crumbling terraces and dilapidated stands, it was demolished.\n\nFor nearly twenty years the outlines of Redheugh Park could be made out with the terraces appearing as grass humps on the land. The area was completely leveled for the 1990 Gateshead Garden Festival and used as a car park. A few years later saw football return to the area in the shape of the Pitz 5-a-side soccer centre which was renamed Power League which is still in place today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36615849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36615849", "title": "SK Sugar Gliders", "text": "SK Sugar Gliders\n\nSK Sugar Gliders is a women's handball club from South Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "1901904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1901904", "title": "Sonny Lubick Field at Hughes Stadium", "text": "Sonny Lubick Field at Hughes Stadium\n\nSonny Lubick Field at Hughes Stadium was an outdoor college football stadium located in Fort Collins, Colorado, United States. It was the home field of the Colorado State Rams of the Mountain West Conference from 1968 through 2016; the team moved to the new Canvas Stadium for the 2017 season.\nOwned and operated by Colorado State University, it stood on a site located about west of the school's main campus. At the time of its closure, future plans for Hughes Stadium were unknown, but it was unlikely to be left dormant, given away, or developed for high-density use. CSU eventually decided to demolish the stadium and restore the site to its original bowl-shaped topography before selling the site for future development. Pre-demolition work began in March 2018 with hazardous material mitigation (mainly asbestos), with full-scale demolition beginning on April 10. Demolition continued into summer 2018, followed by filling in the stadium bowl with soil that had been originally used to create berms around the stadium. The project is expected to be completed in December 2018.\n\nHughes Stadium opened in 1968 as the replacement for the old Colorado Field, a 14,000-seat on-campus stadium that is now the site of \"Jack Christiansen Track\".\n\nHughes Stadium sat in a natural oval bowl, with seating on three sides and an open grass berm (not open for seating) behind the south end zone. The west (home side) stands were expanded out of the bowl and capped by a press box. The stadium was named for Harry W. Hughes, the head coach for 31 seasons (1911–41) at what was then known as Colorado Agricultural.\n\nThe playing surface itself was named in 2003 in honor of then head coach Sonny Lubick. The winningest coach in school history, he led the Rams for fifteen seasons (1993-2007), winning six conference titles and nine bowl games. The field had a conventional north-south alignment.\n\nThe stadium had a seating capacity of 32,500 with club seats and 12 luxury suites, completed in 2005. The playing field, at an approximate elevation of above sea level, was natural grass for the stadium's first 38 seasons; FieldTurf was installed in the summer of 2006.\n\nThe first game at Hughes Stadium was played on September 28, 1968, a 17–12 loss to North Texas State, led by Mean Joe Greene. From October 1989 to August 1991, the Rams won eight consecutive games at the stadium, a school record. The last game at Hughes Stadium was played on November 19, 2016, with the Rams defeating New Mexico by a score of 49–31.\n\nBob Dylan recorded the NBC television special and live concert album \"Hard Rain\" at Hughes Stadium during a rainstorm \n\nAttendance information for primary tenant, Colorado State Rams.\n"}
{"id": "782762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=782762", "title": "Tanga (clothing)", "text": "Tanga (clothing)\n\nA tanga is a pair of briefs consisting of small panels connected by strings at the sides. There are tanga briefs both for men and for women. The style and the word come from Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "3040754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3040754", "title": "The Great Reno Balloon Race", "text": "The Great Reno Balloon Race\n\nThe Great Reno Balloon Race is a hot-air balloon race held each September in Reno, Nevada. The event is held at the Rancho San Rafael Park, just west of the University of Nevada, Reno. The event is free to the public, and completed its 35th year in 2016. Part of the mission statement of the race is to celebrate the joy of flight.\n\nThe Coordination of the race is handled by two bodies:\n\nThe Great Reno Balloon Race is staffed by paid workers to handle the operations of the event.\n\nThe volunteer group, or Aeronauts, consists of about 100 people providing help in many areas of the race including field set-up, pilot crewing and up keep of the grounds. They also assist everyone involved in the race from the organizers and pilots to the sponsors and spectators. The volunteer group meets monthly and works in shifts during the actual event.\n\nThe Great Reno Balloon Race is the largest free hot air ballooning event in the country and is held the first weekend after Labor Day each September at Rancho San Rafael Regional Park in Reno, Nevada. The GRBR draws in a crowd of 140,000 on average each year, making it the largest free event in Northern Nevada. The race draws entrants from throughout the United States as well as numerous other countries. \n\nThe first Balloon Race was in 1982, when a mere 20 balloons graced the crisp Nevadan sky. Today, upwards of 100 balloons participate each year. An event that was first started to create a tourist attraction between the Nevada State Fair and the Reno Air Races has become the icon of the community. Bringing people from all over together who share a love for family, community and ballooning, The Great Reno Balloon Race has become a beloved tradition which is embraced by locals and tourists alike.\n\nOne of the most spectacular shows over the three-day event is the Great Reno Balloon Race is Dawn Patrol. A term patented by the board of trustees when Federal Aviation officials approved predawn flying regulations in 1978. Safety precautions such as special navigation lights became the status quo and The Great Reno Balloon Race quickly became a national role model for pre-dawn events in 1990 when it began launching balloons before sunrise.\n\nDuring Dawn Patrol, pilots face unstable, pre-dawn, air conditions as their balloons illuminate the early morning darkness. Adding warmth to the cool morning, Dawn Patrol marks the beginning of the Balloon Race.\n\nAfter eight years of the Dawn Patrol, yet another attraction was added to thrill onlookers as they waited for the show to begin. Just before Dawn Patrol, pilots light their lanterns for the Glow Show. The balloons take on an almost fictional appearance, not unlike a paper lantern which marks the beginning of the Balloon Race.\n\nThe Hare and Hound Competition \nThe three-day event begins with the Hare and Hound Competition, a ballooning event in which two balloons act as the “hares” while the 100 or so other balloons follow the leaders as the “hounds.” Modeled after the traditional English sport of freeing a rabbit, giving it a head-start, then releasing a pack of canines to hunt it down, the ballooning competition is less dire for the hare.\n\nThe E.L. Cord Tissue Paper Hot Air Balloon Launch\nThe Great Reno Balloon Race Tissue Paper Balloon Launch, a Washoe County School District and Balloon Race tradition since 1999, is a sight to see. On Thursday and Friday of the Balloon Race, over 1000 students release their colorful, hand-made, model hot air balloons off Bunsen burners.\n\nBalloon Blackjack\nAnother popular event at The Great Reno Balloon Races is Balloon Blackjack. This event, implemented at the Balloon Race in 1999, gives the pilots a taste of the Reno gaming experience in an airborne blackjack tournament. The pilots compete for prizes such as complimentary weekends and meals at many of the area’s best casinos.\n\nThe World’s Largest Pajama Party-Pajama Fest \nThe Balloon Race’s newest event and one of its most notable is The World’s Largest Pajama Party. Pajama Fest invites the entire community to participate by attending The Great Reno Balloon Race in pajamas. As well as wearing pajamas, participants are encouraged to show off their best ‘bed-head’ during the Bed Head competition.\nRolling out of bed is hardly a bad thing at the World’s Largest Pajama Party where spectators of all ages are encouraged to leave their PJs on for what is quite possibly the coziest party of the year.\n\nEach year The Great Reno Balloon Race volunteers, or Aeronauts, come together to help make the event possible. The Aeronauts help with many areas of the race, from field set-up and break-down to pilot crewing. With tasks that begin before sun-up, these hard working volunteers are the glue that holds the races together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25739614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25739614", "title": "Togo national football team attack", "text": "Togo national football team attack\n\nThe Togo national football team bus attack was a terrorist attack that occurred on 8 January 2010 as the Togo national football team traveled through the Angolan province of Cabinda on the way to the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations tournament, which began on 10 January. A little-known offshoot of the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC), a group promoting independence for the province of Cabinda, known as the Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda – Military Position (FLEC-PM), claimed responsibility for the attack. Bus driver Mário Adjoua, the team's assistant manager Abalo Amelete, and media officer Stanislas Ocloo were killed, with several others injured. Secretary General of the FLEC-PM Rodrigues Mingas, currently exiled in France, claimed the attack was not aimed at the Togolese players but at the Angolan forces at the head of the convoy. Authorities reported two suspects were detained in connection with the attacks.\n\nOn 8 January 2010, the Togo national team bus was attacked by gunmen as it traveled through the Angolan province of Cabinda for the Africa Cup of Nations. The bus came under machine gun fire just after it had crossed the border from the Republic of the Congo into the Angolan exclave province of Cabinda. All of Togo's initial Group B games were to take place in the Estádio Nacional do Chiazi stadium in Cabinda.\n\nAccording to rebel leader Mingas, the attack was carried out by his \"Commander Sametonne\" who claimed 15 FLEC fighters participated in the ambush. The siege lasted for at least 30 minutes. The bus driver, Mário Adjoua, was killed, cutting off all possible means of escape. The passengers hid beneath the seats. A security team of around 10 men in two cars travelling with the team returned the attackers' fire.\n\nFC Vaslui defender Serge Akakpo was badly wounded by bullets and lost blood, as was goalkeeper Kodjovi Obilalé. Alongside both players, Vice-President Gabriel Ameyi of the Fédération Togolaise de Football and seven members including a journalist and two team doctors were wounded. Emmanuel Adebayor said the attack was, \"one of the worst things I've ever been through in my life.\" He had to carry his screaming teammates into the hospital as he was one of those least affected. Thomas Dossevi said, \"It was a real hell. Twenty minutes of shots, of blood and fear,\" and Richmond Forson said, \"The bus carrying the luggage was riddled. Maybe they thought we were there. Then they opened fire, even against our coaches. It was terrible.\" Dossevi said the team was \"machine-gunned, like dogs.\"\n\nThe Angolan separatist guerrilla group Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC) has claimed responsibility for the attack. A statement signed by FLEC's secretary general Rodrigues Mingas said, \"This operation is just the start of a series of planned actions that will continue to take place in the whole territory of Cabinda.\" French Foreign Ministry spokesperson, Bernard Valero said that \"inciting violence is totally unacceptable\" and Mingas could be prosecuted under French laws for making such statements.\nA larger offshoot group known as Armed Forces of Cabinda (FLEC-FAC) also claimed the responsibility. The leader of the group Jean-Claude N'Zita dismissed Mingas' faction as opportunist.\n\nThree people were killed and nine injured.\n\n\n\nIn connection with the deadly attack on the Togolese national football team, the Angolan police arrested two suspects on 10 January 2010. As the national radio reported, citing the prosecutor, the arrests were made in the Angolan enclave of Cabinda, located between the Republic of Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in West Africa. A total of 9 suspects were arrested.\n\nAngola arrested four men – Monsignor Raul Tati, a Roman Catholic priest and later bishop, Francisco Luemba, a lawyer, Belchior Tati, an economist and Jose Benjamin Fuca, a former police officer – who had documents about Flec and had travelled to Paris for meetings with exiled leaders. In August, they were jailed for links to FLEC-PM. A court in Cabinda found the four guilty of crimes against state security; although the judge did not say whether the four had direct links to the attack. Their prison sentences ranged from three to five years. On 11 January, two FLEC operatives were arrested near the site of the shooting.\n\nThe trial was criticised by human rights groups that accused the government of using the attacks to justify a crackdown on critics. Martinho Nombo, a lawyer taking part in the court hearings, said the judge convicted them only because they had spoken or written about independence for Cabinda. \"This is unconstitutional. A judge cannot jail someone for nothing. This will only worsen Angola's poor record on human rights and the whole peace process with FLEC. The supposed link was implied rather than stated. They were convicted on the basis of those documents.\" Human Rights Watch also criticised the conviction calling the four \"activists\" and saying \"This is clearly a lost opportunity to restore justice in Angola, and particularly in Cabinda.\"\n\nThe Togolese team called for a boycott of the competition as a result of the attack. Alaixys Romao and Thomas Dossevi spoke of their disgust and their lack of desire to compete following their experience. Togo's national football squad subsequently withdrew from the tournament. Togolese midfielder Alaixys Romao said the team was also trying to persuade the other teams in their group to pull out of the competition. After seeing the aftermath of the attack, members of the Mozambique national team flying into Luanda asked for assurances of protection.\n\nTogo was due to play its first game of the tournament against Ghana, three days after the attack on 11 January 2010. STV Sport reported that Togo pulled out of the tournament a day later.\n\nLater there was something of a reversal as two of the Togolese players said they would play in the African Nations Cup in \"memory of the dead.\" Thomas Dossevi, one of the Togolese players, announced that Togo would compete \"to show our national colours, our values and that we are men.\" The Togolese government, however, subsequently ordered the team to return home after all, on grounds of security.\n\nOn 11 January 2010, Togo was officially disqualified from the Africa Cup upon their return to their homeland. The Togolese team had left on Sunday, two days after the attack on the team bus. \"The team is disqualified, this group will consist of three teams\", said a spokesman for the Confédération Africaine de Football (CAF). According to Togo Sports Minister, Christophe Padumhokou Tchao, Togo's official request to re-join the tournament was denied despite the reasoning to mourn the fallen members of the team.\n\nAngolan government minister António Bento Bembe called it an \"act of terrorism\", and stepped up security at the tournament. Martin O'Neill, manager of player Moustapha Salifou at Aston Villa, expressed his shock on the club's website. Manchester City and Portsmouth football clubs expressed concerns over the safety of their players. Players from other teams in Africa, such as Benni McCarthy and Momo Sissoko, condemned the attack. Togolese Prime Minister Gilbert Houngbo ordered a three-day period of national mourning. \"The government has opted for a prolonged nationwide three days of mourning period, which will begin on Monday 11 January 2010,\" Houngbo said on state television.\n\nDanny Jordaan, organiser of the 2010 FIFA World Cup which was played in South Africa in June and July 2010, dismissed concerns that the attack had any relevance to the security arrangements for the World Cup.\n\nOn 12 April, Togo captain Emmanuel Adebayor announced his retirement from international football, stating that he was \"still haunted by the events I witnessed on that horrible afternoon.\" Adebeyor subsequently returned to international duty in November 2011 following assurances from the Togo Football Federation regarding safety, making his comeback in a 1–0 win over Guinea-Bissau in a 2014 World Cup qualifier.\n\n"}
{"id": "9574727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9574727", "title": "Triumph of the Spirit", "text": "Triumph of the Spirit\n\nTriumph of the Spirit is a 1989 American biographical drama film directed by Robert M. Young and starring Willem Dafoe and Edward James Olmos. The screenplay was inspired by true events. The majority of the film is set in the death camp at during the Holocaust and details how the Jewish Greek boxer Salamo Arouch was forced to fight other internees to the death for the SS guards' entertainment. Prior to \"Triumph of the Spirit\", no major feature film had ever been shot on location at Auschwitz.\n\nA stevedore in Thessaloniki, Greece, Salamo Arouch's passion is boxing. Captured along with his family and fiance Allegra in 1943 and interned in Auschwitz, Arouch is used by his SS captors as entertainment, forced to box against fellow prisoners. He knows that if he refuses, his family will be punished; if he wins, he will be given extra rations which he can share with them; if he loses, he will be sent to the gas chamber. As his family and friends die around him, he has only his love of Allegra and his grim determination to keep him alive.\n\nThe film follows the early life story of Salamo Arouch, though it takes some artistic liberties including the early introduction of wife Allegra (a pseudonym for Marta Yechiel), whom Arouch did not actually meet until after the liberation of the camp.\n\nYoung was reluctant to make the film when he was first approached with the script, finding the topic too momentous to cover; he only agreed to direct when provided a script that focused only on one small element, \"like a cork, bubbling on the surface of the sea.\" The film, which positions Arouch as a witness to the horrors of the Holocaust, was shot on a budget of US $12 million. Filming with permission at the Auschwitz concentration camp, producers were able to utilize some existing structures but were also tasked with recreating a crematory given the condition of those that remain. The film also shot briefly in Israel.\n\nThe title of the film is suggestive of human triumph, a view to which star Dafoe subscribed, but others, including actor Olmos perceived its impact differently: \"[W]hat does...[the film] project? The moral decay needed to survive in the camp.\" Lawrence Baron, the author of 2005's \"Projecting the Holocaust Into the Present\", agreed, stating that \"the cumulative impression...undermines whatever uplifting impact its title and publicity imply... A closer scrutiny of the movie reveals that it is not about the triumph of the spirit but rather about 'choiceless choices', to use Lawrence Langer's term for the dilemma faced by death camp inmates, who were never offered any moral alternatives to prolong their survival.\" Baron suggests that this message is crystallized in one scene where Arouch is set to fight his best friend Jacko, who has already been beaten by the guards, knowing that the loser will be consigned to the gas chamber; when he balks, his friend is executed on the spot.\n\nIn its review, \"The New York Times\" praised the performances of Dafoe (\"harrowingly good\") and Robert Loggia (\"a memorably physical performance\"), but complained that the film overall is \"thoroughly mundane\", obvious and sentimental, also singling out for criticism the \"outstandingly intrusive score\". Also taking note of the \"intrusive score\", \"Rolling Stone\" found all of the cast melodramatic with the exception of Dafoe's \"disciplined performance\" and dismissed the film as \"earnest but woefully misguided\". \"Time Magazine\" noted that the film \"is too respectful of its subject to find more in it than noble cliches\", highlighting Young's \"bland direction\" and concluding that \"[t]he film's only and considerable virtue lies in its documentation of the desperate strategies people devised to stay alive in the death camps.\" Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" felt that, by showcasing the fights and expecting viewers to root for Arouch, the filmmakers in effect force audiences to behave no differently from the Nazis in the story. The 2005 book \"Projecting the Holocaust Into the Present\", though acknowledging the generally negative critical reviews, opines that \"Young's depiction of the ethical vacuum that the Nazis devised at Auschwitz makes the movie disturbing and effective.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10386561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10386561", "title": "WikiBaseball", "text": "WikiBaseball\n\nWikiBaseball () is a Taiwanese baseball website. It was created on April 14, 2005. Its major contents are people, event, time, place, and merchandise of Taiwanese baseball.\n\nWikibaseball runs on MediaWiki software. It is written collaboratively by volunteers. Besides feature story, all content is available under CC-BY-NC.\n\nBecause many people browse this website. United Daily News, Formosa Television and some Taiwan media introduce this website to Taiwanese people on March 2006. After several month, Wikibaseball teamed up with Chinese Taipei Baseball Association to digitize their relic. In addition, two Wikibaseball contributors contributed to Liberty Times and interviewed by Uonline reporter on March 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19261571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19261571", "title": "Ö till ö", "text": "Ö till ö\n\nÖTILLÖ (Swedish for \"Island to island\") is a one-day swimrun race in the archipelago of Stockholm, Sweden. You compete in teams of two.\nThe aim of the race is to get from Sandhamn to Utö, via 24 islands, by running across them and swimming between them. The total distance is 75 kilometres of which 10 km are open-water swimming and 65 km are trail-running. The first race was produced in 2006. The largest islands to run across are Runmarö, Nämdö and Ornö. In 2012 ÖTILLÖ was ranked as one of the toughest endurance challenges of the world by CNN.com. ÖTILLÖ is the first race and the origin to the growing movement of Swimrun. ÖTILLÖ is considered to be the World Championship of Swimrun even though it is not part of a federation.\n\nÖTILLÖ is produced by Michael Lemmel & Mats Skott (pre-marriage Andersson), former World Class Adventure Racers.\n\n"}
