{"id": "26162508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26162508", "title": "1835 Paterson textile strike", "text": "1835 Paterson textile strike\n\nThe 1835 Paterson textile strike took place in Paterson, New Jersey, involved more than 2,000 workers from 20 textile mills across the city. The strikers, many of whom were children and of Irish descent, were seeking a reduction in daily working hours from thirteen and a half hours to eleven hours. Support from other workers in Paterson and nearby cities allowed the strikers to sustain their efforts for two weeks. Employers refused to negotiate with the workers, and were able to break the strike by unilaterally declaring a reduction in work hours to twelve hours daily during the week and nine hours on Saturdays. Many leaders of the strike and their family were blacklisted by employers in Paterson after it ended.\n\nAs the Industrial Revolution got under way, the 1830s were a time of significant labor unrest in the United States. Workers throughout the country had over the previous decade sought to secure shorter working days and higher wages, but many of these efforts and strikes failed. The famous but unsuccessful 1834 Lowell Mill strikes in Lowell, Massachusetts, had garnered widespread public attention and were followed closely by workers in other mill towns. In 1835, construction workers in Boston struck seeking shorter hours. This strike failed as well, despite support from unionists in a number of other cities including Philadelphia, Paterson, and Newark. Inspired by Boston, workers in a number of trades in Philadelphia began a campaign to secure a ten-hour day, and after receiving support from professionals in the city, were almost universally successful.\n\nWorkers in Paterson hoped to achieve similar success to those in Philadelphia. Just before Independence Day, they began a strike demanding shorter hours. They also demanded an end to the use of fines to enforce discipline in the mills, wage withholding, and the company store system in the town. In support of the strikers, an organization called the Paterson Association for the Protection of the Working Class was established. They also received monetary support from workers in Newark and New York City. The strikers were mainly children, mainly female, and many of them were of Irish descent. Due to this last fact, debate around the strike quickly became infused with nativist and anti-immigrant rhetoric, especially from the \"Lowell Intelligencer\", a pro-management newspaper.\n\nManagement refused to meet with the strikers, and as a result workers at other mills began to walk out and join in. At its peak, 2000 workers from 20 mills were participating in the strike. In response, employers reduced hours, not to eleven as the strikers wanted, but to twelve on weekdays and nine on Saturday. This reduction broke the strike, and most of the workers returned to the mills. A few strikers continued to hold out for an eleven-hour day, but unsuccessfully. Strike leaders and their families were permanently barred from employment in Paterson, having been blacklisted by the mill owners. Although the strike was broken, it achieved a significant reduction in work hours. According to historians David Roediger and Philip Foner, \"...the strike, which added a dozen hours to each worker's weekly leisure, must have been counted a success by the children initiating it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "52175358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52175358", "title": "A/S Københavns Telefonkiosker", "text": "A/S Københavns Telefonkiosker\n\nA/S Københavns Telefonkiosker (old spelling: A/S Kjøbenhavns Telefonkiosker), often referred to as KTK, was an operator of staffed telephone kiosks in Copenhagen, Denmark. The first telephone kiosks were installed in 1896 to an Art Nouveau-influenced National Romantic design by Fritz Koch. A new and somewhat larger model was introduced in 1913 but Koch's original design was again used when a number of new telephone kiosks were installed in 1929.\n\nEight of the telephone kiosks have survived and most of them are now used as café pavilions. One of Koch's telephone kiosks, located at Poul Henningsens Plads in Østerbro, was listed in 1996. Another one has been moved to Gabels Torv in Aalborg.\n\nThe first telephone company in Copenhagen was established in 1877 and came and Københavns Telefonselskab (KTAS) was founded in 1882. In 1989, it still only had 1,487 out of a population of more than 250,000 in the city. The need for public telephones was therefore evident. On 3 September 1895, A/S Kjøbenhavns Telefonkiosker obtained a concession from the city magistrate on the installation and operation of up to 15 telephone kiosks in a 15-year period in Copenhagen.\nFritz Koch, an assistant for city architect Ludvig Fenger, was charged with the design of the new kiosks. The first four kiosks opened at Kongens Nytorv, Gammeltorv, Nørre Boulevard (now Nørre Voldgade) and the City Hall Square on 1 June 1906. They were followed by kiosks at Gyldenløvesgade, Grønningen, Vesterbros Torv, Sølvtorvet, Dronning Louises Bro and Sankt Annæ Plads later that same year. bringing the total number of telephone kiosks up to 10. Another one, located at Lille Triangel in\n\nØsterbro, opened in 1897 but then the construction stopped. \n\nThe inspiration for the kiosks came from Paris. They were open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. and each kiosk contained two telephones. The kiosk lady also sold a wide selection of kiosk items such as newspapers and magazines, stamps, theatre tickets and even insurance policies. It was also possible to call the telephone kiosk to leave a message with the kiosk lady which she would then send to the recipient by bicycle messenger.\n\nFritz Koch died in 1905. Another architect, Martin Jensen, created a design for new and somewhat larger telephone kiosks in 1913. They replaced many of Koch's kiosks and were also built in a number of new locations. The new design was criticized and in 1929m when the company once again wanted to install new telephone kiosks, the city required them to be built to the old design. In 1932, Curt Bie from the city architect's office created a Functionalist design for new kiosks. A total of 30 telephone kiosks were built.\n\nThe telephone kiosks gradually lost their raison d'être as private telephones became common. Many of the kiosks were removed in connection with road expansions or redesign of public spaces.\n\nKTK was for many years based at the City Hall Square. It later moved to the Enghave Center at Mathæusgade in Vesterbro. It was dissolved in 1980.\n\nKoch's original telephone kiosks are nine metres tall, hexagonal and with a floor area of approximately nine square metres. They are constructed in pine wood on a granite plinth. The copper roof is topped by a triangular flèche with clock faces on all sides. Just below the roof are six teak tree reliefs, one on each side, featuring the 12 astrological sign. Above the reliefs is a frieze with symbolic representations of shipping (ships), industry (tools), (then) modern technology (telephoning gentlemen) and agriculture (animals and plants).\n\nJensen's telephone kiosks from 1913 are designed in the Neo-Baroque style. They are also hexagonal and topped by a copper roof but somewhat larger.\n\nMost of the surviving telephone kiosks are now used as café pavilions. The telephone kiosk at Jagtvej/Poul Henningsens Plads is the only one of Koch's ten original kiosks that still stands in its original location. The kiosk from Sølvtorvet was moved to the \"museum street\" next to Museum of Copenhagen in Absalonsgade. The one from Lille Triangel was acquired by Nordjullands Kunstmuseum and was in 2010 rebuilt in Gabels Torv in Aalborg. The kiosks from Enghave Plads and Gammeltorv were acquired by Tivoli Gardens and at least one of them have been rebuilt in the historic gardens.\n\nThe 1929 version of Koch telephone kiosks have survived in Kultorvet Christianshavns Torv and Sankt Hans Torv.\n\nJensen's telephone kiosks from 1913 are still seen in Nytorv, Kongens Nytorv and Nørre Voldgade but the two latter have been moved a little in connection with a redesign of the surroundings.\n\n"}
{"id": "1024788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1024788", "title": "Affranchi", "text": "Affranchi\n\nAffranchi () is a former French legal term denoting a freedman or emancipated slave, but was a term used to refer pejoratively to mulattoes. It is used in English to describe the class of freedmen in Saint-Domingue and other slave-holding French territories, who held legal rights intermediate between those of free whites and enslaved Africans. In Saint-Domingue, roughly half of the \"affranchis\" were \"gens de couleur libres\" (free people of color; \"Mulatto\") and the other half African slaves.\n\nThe term is derived from the French word for emancipation — \"affranchissement\", or enfranchisement in terms of political rights. But, the \"affranchis\" were barred from the franchise (voting) prior to a 1791 court case following the French Revolution. The decision in their favor prompted a backlash from the French white planter class on Saint-Domingue, who also exerted power in France. These elements contributed to the outbreak of the Haitian Revolution.\n\nThe \"affranchis\" had legal and social advantages over enslaved Africans. They became a distinct class in the society between whites and slaves. They could get some education, were able to own land, and could attend some French colonial entertainments. Planters who took slave women or free women of color as concubines often sent their sons to France for education and, in some cases, to enter the military. They were more likely to settle property on them as well. Because of such property and class issues, some free men of color considered themselves to have status above that of the \"petits blancs\", shopkeepers and workers. Nonetheless, the latter had more political rights in the colony until after the Revolution.\n\nThe colonists passed so many restrictions that the \"affranchis\" were limited as a separate caste: they could not vote or hold colonial administrative posts, or work in professional careers as doctors or lawyers. There were sumptuary laws: the free people of color were forbidden to wear the style of clothes favored by the wealthy white colonists. In spite of the disadvantages, many educated \"affranchis\" identified culturally with France rather than with the enslaved population. A class in between, the free people of color sometimes had tensions with both whites and enslaved Africans.\n\nAmbitious mulattoes worked to gain acceptance from the white colonists who held power in that society. As they advanced in society, \"affranchis\" often also held land and slaves. Some acted as creditors for planters. One of their leaders in the late 18th century, Julien Raimond, an indigo planter, claimed that \"affranchis\" owned a third of all the slaves in the colony at that time. In the early years of the French Revolution and Haitian Revolution, many gens de couleur were committed to maintaining the institution of slavery. They wanted political equality based on class - that is, extended for men of property, regardless of skin color.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53269256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53269256", "title": "Afro-Romanian", "text": "Afro-Romanian\n\nAfro-Romanians are black people and people of African descent, who have migrated to and settled in Romania. Population of Afro-Romanians is rather insignificant and mostly concentrated in major cities of Romania.\n\nAfricans have been immigrating to Romania since the Communist Era.\n\nThe majority of African-Romanians are not purely black, but they are mulattoes. They are usually the children of a Romanian parent that mixed with a former student in Romania that came from Africa. Nicolae Ceaușescu had a plan to educate the African elites. Over 10,000 Sudanese studied in Romania for example before 1990. Since the early 60s, young people from around the world came to study in the Socialist Republic of Romania. The communist state leadership wanted to link mutual friendship with different countries. \n\n\n\n\n \n\n"}
{"id": "34226380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34226380", "title": "Ali (character)", "text": "Ali (character)\n\nAli the Fox () is a cartoon character created by Xu Han (, known as \"Hans\"), who graduated from the School of Fine Arts of Tsinghua University and received a master's degree. Ali is a red fox in white pants. The company controlling the character is Beijing Dream Castle Culture Co., Ltd ().\n\nAli began as an internet emoticon. He began appearing on Chinese internet sites in 2006. They included QQ, Renren, Sina Weibo, and WeChat. Ali has an animated TV series and a picture book series.\n\nThere is a film, Ali．Dream Island ().\n\nWhen making the picture book series, he originally wanted to adapt European fairy tales but instead decided to write the stories himself. By 2013 the Ali picture books have sold over two million copies. A promotional event for the third Ali picture book occurred in October 2013. In some cities, including Shanghai, Zhengzhou, and other cities, 2,000 signed books became sold out in fewer than three hours.\n\nHans, the creator of Ali, graduated from the School of Fine Arts of Tsinghua University and received a master's degree in 2007.He is now a college teacher. He began to create Ali when he was a graduate student. In the year of 2010, he was nominated the award of Beijing Youth Star of Start-ups. Things he loves to do are watching movies and comic books and one of his dreams is to build a dream kingdom for Ali. Hans completed on his own all the work of Ali, including the design of Ali’s expressions and websites. The book \"Ali's Dream Castle\" (S: 阿狸·梦之城堡, T: 阿狸·夢之城堡, P: \"Ālí Mèngzhī Chéngbǎo\") is considered one of the five-star books of Dangdang in 2010. And his second book \"Ali's Eternal Stop\" (S: 阿狸·永远站, T: 阿狸·永遠站, \"Ālí Yǒngyuǎn Zhàn\") was launched in 2010 during Christmas. The sells were over 2000 copies, breaking the selling record of Chinese comic books. The third book \"Ali•tail\" is under creation.\n\nAs of 2013 he is a teacher at Minzu University of China and he is the chairperson of Beijing Dream Castle Culture Co., Ltd.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5775306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5775306", "title": "Amenity", "text": "Amenity\n\nIn real estate and lodging, an amenity is something considered to benefit a property and thereby increase its value. Tangible amenities can include the number and nature of guest rooms and the provision of facilities such as elevators (lifts), wi-fi, restaurants, parks, communal areas, swimming pools, golf courses, health club facilities, party rooms, theater or media rooms, bike paths or garages, while intangible amenities can include aspects such as well-integrated public transport, pleasant views, nearby activities and a low crime rate. Within the context of environmental economics, an environmental amenity can include access to clean air or clean water, or the quality of any other environmental good that may reduce adverse health effects for residents or increase their economic welfare. \n\n"}
{"id": "3216363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3216363", "title": "Aztec use of entheogens", "text": "Aztec use of entheogens\n\nThe ancient Aztecs employed a variety of entheogenic plants and animals within their society. The various species have been identified through their depiction on murals, vases, and other objects. The plants used include ololiuqui (\"Rivea corymbosa\"), teonanácatl (\"Psilocybe spp.\"), sinicuichi (\"Heimia salicifolia\"), toloatzin (\"Datura spp.\"), peyotl (\"Lophophora williamsii\") and many others.\n\nThere are many pieces of archaeological evidence in reference to the use of entheogens early in the history of Mesoamerica. Olmec burial sites with remains of the Bufo toad (\"Bufo marinus\"), Maya mushroom effigies, and Spanish writings all point to a heavy involvement with psychoactive substances in the Aztec lifestyle.\n\nThe Florentine codex contains multiple references to the use of psychoactive plants among the Aztecs. The 11th book of the series contains identifications of five plant entheogens. R. Gordon Wasson, Richard Evans Schultes, and Albert Hofmann have suggested that the statue of Xochipilli, the Aztec 'Prince of Flowers,' contains effigies of a number of plant based entheogens.\n\nThe plants were primarily used by the priests, or \"tlamacazqui\", other nobility, and visiting dignitaries. They would use them for divination much as the indigenous groups of central Mexico do today. The priests would also ingest the entheogens to engage in prophecy, interpret visions, and heal.\n\nOloliuqui (Coatl xoxouhqui) was identified as Rivea corymbosa in 1941 by Richard Evans Schultes. The name Ololiuqui refers to the brown seeds of the Rivea corymbosa (Morning Glory) plant.\nTlitliltzin was identified later as being Ipomoea violacea by R. Gordon Wasson. This variation contains black seeds and usually has bluish hued flowers.\n\nThe seeds of these plants contain the psychoactive d-lysergic acid amide, or LSA. The preparation of the seeds involved grinding them on a \"metate\", then filtering them with water to extract the alkaloids. The resulting brew was then drunk to bring forth visions.\n\nThe Florentine Codex Book 11 describes the Ololiuqui intoxication:\nIt makes one besotted; it deranges one, troubles one, maddens one, makes one possessed. He who eats it, who drinks it, sees many things which greatly terrify him. He is really frightened [by the] poisonous serpent which he sees for that reason.\nThe morning glory was also utilized in healing rituals by the \"ticitl\". The \"ticitl\" would often take ololiuqui to determine the cause of diseases and illness. It was also used as an anesthetic to ease pain by creating a paste from the seeds and tobacco leaf, then rubbing it on the affected body part.\n\nCalled \"Teonanácatl\" in Nahuatl (literally \"god mushroom\"—compound of the words \"teo(tl)\" (god) and \"nanácatl\" (mushroom))—the mushroom genus \"Psilocybe\" has a long history of use within Mesoamerica. The members of the Aztec upper class would often take \"teonanácatl\" at festivals and other large gatherings. According to Fernando Alvarado Tezozomoc, it was often a difficult task to procure mushrooms. They were quite costly as well as very difficult to locate, requiring all-night searches.\n\nBoth Fray Bernardino de Sahagún and Fray Toribio de Benavente Motolinia describe the use of the mushrooms. The Aztecs would drink chocolate and eat the mushrooms with honey. Those partaking in the mushroom ceremonies would fast before ingesting the sacrament. The act of taking mushrooms is known as \"monanacahuia,\" meaning to \"mushroom oneself\".\nAt the very first, mushrooms had been served...They ate no more food; they only drank chocolate during the night. And they ate the mushrooms with honey. When the mushrooms took effect on them, then they danced, then they wept. But some, while still in command of their senses, entered and sat there by the house on their seats; they did no more, but only sat there nodding.\nSome written observations under the influence of the doctrine of Catholicism account the use of the mushroom among the Montezumanic people. Allegedly - during the emperor's coronation ceremony, many prisoners were sacrificed, had their flesh eaten, and their hearts removed. Those who were invited guests to the feast ate mushrooms, which Diego Durán describes as causing those who ate them to go insane and many to take their lives.\n\nNot much is known of the use of sinicuichi (alternate spelling sinicuiche) among the Aztecs. R. Gordon Wasson identified the flower on the statue of Xochipilli and suggested from its placement with other entheogens that it was probably used in a ritualistic context. Multiple alkaloids have been isolated from the plant; with cryogenine, lythrine, and nesodine being the most important.\n\nSinicuichi could be the plant \"tonatiuh yxiuh\" \"the herb of the sun\" from the Aztec Herbal of 1552. \"tonatiuh\" means sun. This is interesting because today in Central and South America, sinicuichi is often called \"abre-o-sol,\" or the \"sun opener.\" \"Tonatiuh yxiuh\" is described as being a summer blooming plant, as is Heimia.\n\nThe Herbal also includes a recipe for a potion to conquer fear. It reads:\nLet one who is fear-burdened take as a drink a potion made of the herb \"tonatiuh yxiuh\" which throws out the brightness of gold.\nOne of the effects of sinicuichi is that it adds a golden halo or tinge to objects when ingested.\n\n\"Tlapatl\" and \"mixitl\" are both \"Datura\" species, \"Datura stramonium\" and \"Datura innoxia\", with strong hallucinogenic qualities. The plants typically have large, white or purple hued, trumpet-shaped flowers and spiny seeds pods. The active alkaloids are atropine, scopolamine, and hyoscyamine.\n\nThe use of datura spans millennia. It has been employed by both many indigenous groups in North, Central, and South America for a variety of uses. Called \"toloache\" today in Mexico, datura species were used among the Aztec for medicine, divination, and malevolent purposes.\n\nFor healing, \"tlapatl\" was made into an ointment which was spread over infected areas to cure gout, as well as applied as a local anesthetic. The plants were also utilized to cause harm to others. For example, it was believed that \"mixitl\" would cause a being to become paralyzed and mute, while \"tlapatl\" will cause those who take it to be disturbed and go mad.\n\nThe cactus known as \"peyotl\", or more commonly peyote (\"Lophophora williamsii\"), has a rich history of use in Mesoamerica. Its use in northern Mexico among the Huichol has been written about extensively. It is thought that since peyote only grows in certain regions of Mexico, the Aztecs would receive dried buttons through long-distance trade. Peyote was viewed as being a protective plant by the Aztec. Sahagún suggested that the plant is what allowed the Aztec warriors to fight as they did.\n\nR. Gordon Wasson has posited that the plant known as \"pipiltzintzintli\" is in fact \"Salvia divinorum\". It is not entirely known whether or not this plant was used by the Aztecs as a psychotropic, but Jonathan Ott (1996) argues that although there are competing species for the identification of \"pipiltzintzintli\", \"Salvia divinorum\" is probably the \"best bet.\" There are references to use of \"pipiltzintzintli\" in Spanish arrest records from the conquest, as well as a reference to the mixing of \"ololiuqui\" with \"pipiltzintzintli\".\n\nContemporaneously, the Mazatec, meaning \"people of the deer\" in Nahuatl, from the Oaxaca region of Mexico utilize \"Salvia divinorum\" when \"Psilocybe spp.\" mushrooms are not readily available. They chew and swallow the leaves of fresh salvia to enter into a shamanic state of consciousness. The Mazatec use the plant in both divination and healing ceremonies, perhaps as the Aztecs did 500 years ago. Modern users of Salvia have adapted the traditional method, forgoing the swallowing of juices due to Salvinorin A being readily absorbed by the mucous membranes of the mouth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19761384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19761384", "title": "Blue Diamond Affair", "text": "Blue Diamond Affair\n\nThe Blue Diamond Affair is a series of unresolved crimes and embittered diplomatic relations triggered by the 1989 theft of gems belonging to the House of Saud by a Thai employee. The affair has soured relations between Saudi Arabia and Thailand for nearly 30 years.\n\nIn 1989, Kriangkrai Techamong, a Thai worker, stole jewellery and other valuable gems from the palace of Prince Faisal bin Fahd, where he was employed as a servant. Kriangkrai had access to the prince's bedroom and hid the stolen jewellery in a vacuum cleaner bag at the palace. It included a valuable blue diamond and other gems, which Kriangkrai then shipped to his home in Lampang Province, Thailand.\n\nA Royal Thai Police investigation by a team headed by Lieutenant-General Chalor Kerdthes led to Kriangkrai's arrest and the recovery of most of the stolen jewellery. Kriangkai was sentenced to seven years in prison, but he was released after three years as he cooperated with the police and had confessed.\n\nLieutenant-General Chalor's team flew to Saudi Arabia to return the stolen items. However, the Saudi Arabian authorities discovered that the blue diamond was missing and that about half of the gems returned were fake.\n\nIn Bangkok, rumors spread in the local press that charity gala photos captured a number of government wives wearing diamond necklaces resembling those stolen from the palace. This fueled Saudi suspicions that Thai police and VIPs had taken the jewels for themselves.\n\nMohammad al-Ruwaili, a Saudi Arabian businessman close to the Saudi royal family, traveled to Bangkok to investigate on his own. He went missing on 12 February 1990 and is presumed to have been murdered. Several days prior to his disappearance, three officials from the Saudi Embassy had been shot dead in Bangkok. The murders remain unsolved, and no connection to the jewelry theft has been established, despite the Saudi government's view \"...that the Thai government had not done enough to resolve the mystery surrounding Al-Ruwaili's assassination and that of three other Saudi diplomats.\"\n\nLieutenant-General Chalor was later charged and convicted of ordering the 1995 murder of the wife and son of a gem dealer allegedly involved in the affair, and he was sentenced to death. The Thai Supreme Court upheld the judgement and sentenced Chalor to death on 16 October 2009. However, Chalor's sentence was reduced to fifty years imprisonment by King Bhumibol Adulyadej on the King's 84th birthday. Six other policemen were also convicted of involvement in the murders. One of those involved, Police Lieutenant-Colonel Pansak Mongkolsilp, was sentenced in 2002 to life in prison. The term was upheld on appeal in 2005, but he was released in 2012.\n\nRelations between the two countries worsened further following the murders. Saudi Arabia stopped issuing work visas for Thais and discouraged its own citizens from visiting Bangkok. Diplomatic missions were downgraded to the \"chargé d'affaires\" level. The number of Thais working in Saudi Arabia fell from 150,000-200,000 in 1989 to just 10,000 in 2008. The cost to Thailand was about 200 billion baht in remittances, as fewer Thai workers were permitted to work in Saudi Arabia.\n\nOn 17 March 2016 Kriangkrai Techamong, then 65, told reporters at his home in Lampang that he would become a monk for the remainder of his life to repent for his dishonest actions. He had spent nearly five years in Thai prisons for his theft. Kriangkrai said he believes the missing Blue Diamond is cursed and said its theft had brought a series of calamities on himself and his family.\n\nChalor Kerdthes was granted a royal pardon and was released in August 2015. He was present at Kriangkrai's ordination ceremony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "715270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715270", "title": "Car-free movement", "text": "Car-free movement\n\nThe car-free movement is a broad, informal, emergent network of individuals and organizations including social activists, urban planners, transportation engineers and others, brought together by a shared belief that large and/or high-speed motorized vehicles (cars, trucks, tractor units, motorcycles, ...) are too dominant in most modern cities. The goal of the movement is to create places where motorized vehicle use is greatly reduced or eliminated, to convert road and parking space to other public uses and to rebuild compact urban environments where most destinations are within easy reach by other means, including walking, cycling, personal transporters, low impact vehicles such as golf carts, neighborhood electric vehicles, kei cars and quadricycles, mobility as a service or public transport.\n\nBefore the twentieth century, cities and towns were normally compact, containing narrow streets busy with human activity. In the early twentieth century, many of these settlements were adapted to accommodate the car with wider roads, more car parking spaces, and lower population densities with space between urban buildings reserved for automotive use. Lower population densities meant urban sprawl with longer distances between places. The low cost of use brought traffic congestion which made older transport unattractive or impractical, and created the conditions for more traffic and sprawl; the car system was \"increasingly able to 'drive' out competitors, such as feet, bikes, buses and trains\". This process led to changes in urban form and living patterns that offered little opportunity for people without a car.\n\nSome governments have responded with policies and regulations aimed at reversing auto dependency by increasing urban densities, encouraging mixed use development and infill, reducing space allocated to private cars, increasing walkability, supporting cycling and other alternative vehicles similar in size and speed, and public transport. Globally cities are planning to increase their public transport and non-motorized transport modal shares and shift away from private transport oriented development. Cities like Hong Kong developed a highly integrated public transportation system which effectively reduced the use of private transport. In contrast with private automotive travel, car sharing, where people can easily rent a car for a few hours rather than own one, is emerging as an increasingly important element for urban transportation.\n\nProponents of the car-free movement focus on both sustainable transportation options and on urban design, zoning, school placement policies, urban agriculture, telecommuting options, and housing developments that create proximity or access so that long distance transportation becomes less of a requirement of daily life.\n\nNew urbanism is an American urban design movement that arose in the early 1980s. Its goal has been to reform all aspects of real estate development and urban planning, from urban retrofits to suburban infill. New urbanist neighborhoods are designed to contain a diverse range of housing and jobs, and to be walkable. Other, more auto-oriented cities are also making incremental changes to provide transportation alternatives through Complete streets improvements.\n\nWorld Squares for all is a scheme to remove much of the traffic from major squares in London, including Trafalgar Square and Parliament Square.\n\nCar-free cities are, as the name implies entire cities (or at least the inner parts therof) which have been made entirely car-free.\n\nCar-free zones are area of a city or town where use of cars is prohibited or greatly restricted.\n\nLiving streets and complete streets provide for the needs of car drivers secondarily to the needs of users of the street as a whole. They are designed to be shared by pedestrians, playing children, bicyclists, and low-speed motor vehicles.\nDistribution centers help reduce the need to keep buildings such as warehouses in city centers accessible by Tractor units. They allow the tractor units to unload their cargo in the suburban distribution center. The products are then placed in a small truck (sometimes electrically powered), freight bicycle, ... to bridge the last mile (transportation) to the warehouse. Besides offering advantages to the population (increased safety due to truck drivers having less blind spots), reduced noise/traffic, reduced tailpipe emissions, ...) it also offers financial advantage for the companies, as tractor units require a lot of time to bridge this last mile (they lack agility and consume much fuel in congested streets). \n\nAt the outskirts of towns, between the exits of the rings roads, and the car-free zones in the city center themselves, additional car parking lots can be added, generally in the form of underground car parks (to avoid it taking up surface space). Careful placement of these car-parking lots is needed though, ensuring that they are made far enough from the city centers (and closer to the ring roads) to avoid them attracting more cars to the city center. In some instances, near these car parking lotss, public transport (i.e. bus) stops are foreseen, or bicycle-sharing services are present.\n\nCommunity bicycle programs provide bicycles within an urban environment for short term use. The first successful scheme was in the 1960s in Amsterdam and can now be found in many other cities with 20,000 bicycles introduced to Paris in 2007 in the Vélib' scheme. Dockless bike share systems have recently appeared in the U.S. and provide more convenience for people wanting to rent a bike for a short time period.\n\nThe Campaign for Better Transport (formerly known as Transport2000) was formed in 1972 in Britain to challenge proposed cuts in the British rail network and since then has promoted public transport solutions to our transport needs.\n\nCar Free Walks is a UK-based website encouraging walkers to use public transport to reach the start and end of walks, rather than using a car.\n\nRoad protests rose to prominence in the UK in the early 1990s in response to a major road building program both in urban communities and also rural areas.\n\nReclaim the Streets, a movement formed in 1991 in London, \"invaded\" major roads, highway or freeway to stage parties. While this may obstruct the regular users of these spaces such as car drivers and public bus riders, the philosophy of RTS is that it is vehicle traffic, not pedestrians, who are causing the obstruction, and that by occupying the road they are in fact opening up public space.\n\nIn Flanders, the organisation Fietsersbond has called upon the government to ban tractor units in city centers.\n\nCritical Mass rides emerged in 1992 in San Francisco where cyclists take to the streets en masse to dominate the traffic, using the slogan \"we are traffic\". The ride was founded with the idea of drawing attention to how unfriendly the city was to bicyclists.\n\nThe World Naked Bike Ride was born in 2001 in Spain with the first naked bike rides, which then emerged as the WNBR in 2004 a concept which rapidly spread through collaborations with many different activist groups and individuals around the world to promote bicycle transportation, renewable energy, recreation, walkable communities, and environmentally responsible, sustainable solutions to living in the twenty-first century.\n\nParking Days started in 2005 when REBAR, a collaborative group of creators, designers and activists based in San Francisco, transformed a metered parking spot into a small park complete with turf, seating, and shade and by 2007 there were 180 parks in 27 cities around the world.\n\nCar Free Days are official events with the common goal of taking a fair number of cars off the streets of a city or some target area or neighborhood for all or part of a day, in order to give the people who live and work there a chance to consider how their city might look and work with significantly fewer cars. The first events were organised in Reykjavík (Iceland), Bath (UK) and La Rochelle (France) in 1995.\n\nCiclovía is a similar event in many cities that places a large emphasis on cycling as an alternative to auto travel.\n\nIn town without my car! is an EU campaign and day every autumn (Northern Hemisphere) for an increased use of other vehicles than the car. It has since spread beyond the EU, and in 2004 more than 40 countries participate.\n\nWorld Urbanism Day was founded in 1949 in Buenos Aires and is celebrated in more than 30 countries on four continents each November 8.\n\nTowards Carfree Cities is the annual conference of the World Carfree Network and provides a focal point for diverse aspects of the emerging global carfree movement. The conference is in Portland, Oregon, USA in 2008 (its first time in North America), and has also been in Istanbul, Turkey; Bogota, Colombia; Budapest, Hungary; Berlin, Germany; Prague, Czech Republic; Timisoara, Romania; and Lyon, France. The conference series attempts to bridge the gap between many of the diverse people and organizations interested in reducing urban dependence on the automobile.\n\nTransportation Alternative's Annual Commuter Race pits a bicyclist against both a subway rider and a cab rider in a race from Queens to Manhattan. The Fifth Annual Commuter race took place in May 2009, where bicyclist Rachel Myers beat straphanger Dan Hendrick and cab rider Willie Thompson to make it the fifth year the contestant on the bicycle won. Myers took the 2009 title with a time of 20 minutes and 15 seconds to make the 4.2 mile trek from Sunnyside, Queens to Columbus Circle in Manhattan. Hendrick showed up 15 minutes later off the subway and Thompson arrived via cab nearly a half-hour after that. Transportation Alternatives is a group that \"seeks to change New York City's transportation priorities to encourage and increase non-polluting, quiet, city-friendly travel and decrease—not ban—private car use. [They] seek a rational transportation system based on a 'Green Transportation Hierarchy,' which gives preference to modes of travel based on their benefits and costs to society. To achieve our goals, T.A. works in five areas: Bicycling, Walking and Traffic Calming, Car-Free Parks, Safe Streets and Sensible Transportation.\" The 2009 Commuter Race came on the heels of a Times Square traffic ban in NYC that drew national media attention.\n\nThere are many areas of the world where people have always lived without cars, because no road access is possible, or none has been provided. In developed countries these include islands and some historic neighbourhoods or settlements, the largest example being the canal city of Venice. The term carfree \"development\" implies a physical change - either new building or changes to an existing built area.\n\nMelia \"et al.\" (2010) define carfree development as follows:\n\nCarfree developments are residential or mixed use developments which:\n\n\nThis definition (which they distinguish from the more common \"low car development\") is based mainly on experience in Northwestern Europe, where the movement for carfree development began. Within this definition three types are identified:\n\n\nVauban, Freiburg, Germany is according to this definition, the largest carfree development in Europe, with over 5,000 residents. Whether it can be considered carfree is open to debate: many local people prefer the term \"stellplatzfrei\" - literally \"free from parking spaces\" to describe the traffic management system there. Vehicles are allowed down the residential streets at walking pace to pick up and deliver but not to park, although there are frequent infractions. Residents of the stellplatzfrei areas must sign an annual declaration stating whether they own a car or not. Car owners must purchase a place in one of the multi-storey car parks on the periphery, run by a council-owned company. The cost of these spaces – €17,500 in 2006, plus a monthly fee – acts as a disincentive to car ownership.\n\nThe more common form of car free development involves some sort of physical barrier, which prevents motor vehicles from penetrating into a carfree interior. Melia \"et al.\" describe this as the \"Limited Access\" type. In some cases such as Stellwerk 60 in Cologne, there is a removable barrier, controlled by a residents' organisations. In others such as Waterwijk (Amsterdam) (article in Dutch) vehicular access is only available from the exterior.\n\nWhereas the first two models apply to newly built car free developments, most pedestrianised areas have been retro-fitted. Pedestrian zones may be considered carfree developments where they include a significant population and a low rate of vehicle ownership per household. The largest example in Europe is Groningen, Netherlands which had a city centre population of 16,500 in 2008.\n\nSeveral studies have been done on European car free developments. The most comprehensive was conducted in 2000 by Jan Scheurer. Other more recent studies have been made of specific carfree areas such as Vienna's Florisdorf carfree development.\n\nThe main benefits found for car free developments (summarised in Melia \"et al.\" 2010) found in the various studies are:\n\n\nThe main problems related to parking management. Where parking is not controlled in the surrounding area, this often results in complaints from neighbours about overspill parking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57531202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57531202", "title": "Climate change adaptation strategies on the German coast", "text": "Climate change adaptation strategies on the German coast\n\nClimate Change Adaptation Strategies on the German Coast include European, national and regional politics, different economic and civilian sectors as well as coastal protection. In general, \"climate change\" refers to statistically identifiable changes in climate properties that persist over a longer period of time. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) defines it as a change in climate caused by human activity that can be observed in addition to natural climate variability. This can be described as anthropogenic climate change. Climate change poses local level impacts on the German coast and for the present and future, suitable adaptation strategies are necessary. In 2008, the Federal Cabinet of Germany decided on a German Climate Change Adaptation Strategy with the objective of creating a national action framework for reducing the risks for the population, habitats as well as the economy.\"Adaptation\" is a contested, widely discussed term with no general definition. For the German Adaptation Strategy the definition of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is utilized, stating that adapatation is the adjustment of natural or human systems to occurring or expected changes in climate in order to reduce harm. This approach views climate change as the major source of vulnerability and does not consider any social causes.\nThe \"German Coast\" comprises 1600 km to the west at the North Sea and 2100 km to the east at the Baltic Sea. In total, five states border the German coast. Lower Saxony, Bremen and Hamburg are part of the North Sea region; Mecklenburg-Vorpommern border the Baltic Sea and Schleswig-Holstein is located at both seas. \"Coast\" can be defined as the zone where the land is considerably influenced by the sea and vice versa.\n\nThe coastal inhabitants in Germany have always been exposed to the forces of nature, especially to storm floods and had to adapt to changing conditions. It is assumed that in Schleswig-Holstein in the 11th century, people started to build dykes to protect living and usable spaces from sea level rise and storm floods. Adaptation especially to the Anthropogenic Climate Change started in the 21st century, although initially the focus has been on climate protection. The German Government took up climate change adaptation for the first time in 2005 in the frame of its climate protection programme.\n\nCertain and reliable predictions for impacts of anthropogenic climate change on the German coast regarding temperature, precipitation, sea level and storm flood heights do not exist. Different models show different results and it is assumed that all changes in the range of the results have the same likelihood to occur. For the end of the 21st century, the temperature is expected to rise between +0.6 °C and +6.2 °C in comparison to 1961-1990. For the same period of time, a change of precipitation between -47% and +73% is likely.\n\nSea level and storm floods are complex phenomena and are influenced by diverse factors, such as astronomical (tides), meteorological (wind), and tectonic (isostatic movements) variables which makes it even more difficult to predict how they will change with climate change. At the Baltic Sea, sea level is expected to rise in line with the expected global average rise in sea level. According to the Intergovernmental Penal on Climate Change (IPCC) 5th Assessment Report, global average sea level is predicted to rise 0.26-0.55 m in the period 2081-2100 in relation to 1986-2005 sea level. Studies show that at the German North Sea coast, sea level from 1843-2008 has risen between 1,6 and 1,8 mm per year. Higher values have been observed at the west coast of Schleswig-Holstein and lower values at the Lower Saxon coast. In future, sea level rise at the North Sea is expected to be higher than the global average as a result of post-glacial land depression. There is now statistical evidence existing on how the storm flood height will change in future at the Baltic Sea. At both seas, a rise in storm flood height is expected due to climate change related sea level rise.\n\nEuropean, national as well as regional politics play a role in climate change adaptation at the German North Sea coast and Baltic Sea coast. In 2009, the European Union presented the White Paper Adapting to Climate Change: Towards a European framework for action which was a first approach to joint climate change adaptation politics. In 2013, the European Union established the EU Strategy on Adaptation to Climate Change. National and local climate change adaptation programs for the German coast are often considered as part of the EU Strategy on Adaptation to Climate Change. In a local setting, urban planning is an important part of adaptation politics.\n\nThe German North Sea is part of the North Sea Region (NSR) Program 2014 - 2020 of the European Climate Adaptation Platform (Climate-ADAPT). This regional European development fund includes coastal zones of the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Norway. NSR developed a cooperation program, which was adopted by the European Commission in August 2015. The cooperation program focuses on adaptation to climate change impacts and on preserving the environment, stimulating a green economy, promoting green transportation and mobility as well as supporting growth in the North Sea Region. Another actor in climate change adaptation in the German North Sea Region is the Wadden Sea Secretariat, a cooperation between Denmark, The Netherlands, and Germany that has been established in 1978 to protect the Wadden Sea as an ecological entity. The Wadden Sea Secretariat addresses and communicates the impacts of climate change on the Wadden Sea. In 1998, the working group Coastal Protection and Sea Level Rise (CPSL) was founded, dealing with the impacts of climate change. Until 2010, the CPSL has published three reports, which provided information for governmental conferences.\n\nThe Baltic Sea Region Program was developed by the EU Climate Adaptation Platform (Climate-ADAPT) to strengthen development and cooperation between the abutting nations of the Baltic Sea. In 2013, the predecessor EU Project BALTADAPT (Baltic Sea Region Climate Change Adaptation Strategy) published an action plan for climate change adaptation in the Baltic Sea regions. It focused on strategies for building and sharing knowledge of climate change adaptation, mainstreaming it and on connecting the strategies of the nations in the Baltic Sea Region to adapt to climate change.\n\nThe political framework for climate change adaptation in Germany is given by the German Strategy for Adaptation to Climate Change (2008). Regarding climate change at the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, the strategy states that the expected magnitude of damage due to climate change is unclear. In 2011, the German government presented an action plan for climate change adaptation which includes resolutions from the Wadden Sea Secretariat for the North Sea Region. In behalf of the Federal Environmental Agency (UBA), the project \"KüstenKlima\" (2014) by the \"Institut Raum & Energie\" (...) published a strategy for climate protection and climate change adaptation at the German coast mainly due to coastal management. In the report, it was highlighted that an integrated coastal zone management (IKZM) is an important method for adaptation. IKZM is an informal management approach to strengthen sustainable development by means of integration, communication, good coordination practice, and participation. The Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) facilitates the project \"KLIMZUG - Klimawandel in Regionen zukunftsfähig gestalten\" \"(2008-2014)\" which includes adaptation strategies in seven model regions in Germany. The \"KLIMZUG\" program aimed to integrate climate change adaptation processes into regional development. Three of this model regions are located at the German coast. The program \"KLIMZUG-NORD\" focuses on the metropolitan region Hamburg, the program \"RADOST\" on adaptation strategies for the German Baltic Sea coast and \"nordwest2050\" is a research project for climate change adaptation and innovation processes for the metropolitan region of Bremen and Oldenburg.\n\nAt the level of Länder there are also individual climate change adaptation programs. \n\nThe state government of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern presented a first climate protection program in the year 1997 (\"Aktionsplan Klimaschutz Mecklenburg-Vorpommern\").\n\nThe Baltic Sea region of Mecklenburg Vorpommern is part of the EU BALTADAPT program.\n\nBased on the German adaptation strategy to climate change, the state government of Schleswig-Holstein for the first time presented a strategy for climate change adaptation (\"Fahrplan Anpassung an den Klimawandel\") in 2011. The program was updated in 2017. The proximity to North Sea and Baltic Sea strongly influenced the program which can be recognized in the highlighted topics water economy and protection of the sea and soil.\n\nBesides actions in coastal protection, there is the project \"KLAS - Klimaanpassungsstrategie an extreme Regenereignisse in der Stadtgemeinde Bremen\" promoted by the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU). The program aims to develop a better risk management for strong rain events.\n\nHamburg is a model region for the national project KLIMZUG-NORD. Besides that, a strategy for climate change adaptation was developed in 2011. In 2013, an action plan for climate change adaptation was published.\n\nThe state government of Lower-Saxony established a government commission for climate protection and adaptation in 2008 to develop a strategy for climate change adaptation and protection. In 2013, the state government enacted the \"Klimapolitische Umsetzungsstrategie Niedersache\"n. This program includes coastal protection strategies.\n\nAccording to DIN 4047-2, coastal protection comprises measures defending the shoreline against destructive interactions with the sea. That includes the protection of the coastal lowlands against flooding to allow the use of these areas as well as the protection of the coastline against shoreline recession and coastal erosion.\n\nWhen it comes to climate change adaptation, coastal protection in Germany divides into three categories of measures:\n\n\nCoastal protection in Germany is organised and structured by legal regulations. Climate change adaptation in Germany has to be integrated in coastal protection plans on all spatial levels in order to achieve effective adaptation of the coastal protection sector. German administration distinguishes between active and passive coastal protection. Active coastal protection refers to measures that support floodplain reclamation and approaches to relocate acting forces (current, breaking wave) seawards (e.g. by beach nourishment) whereas passive coastal protestion solidifies the shoreline (so-called \"hold the line\" approaches) and supports the absorption of incoming forces to avoid harmful consequences. Passive coastal protection can include seawalls, groynes, detached breakwaters, and revetments. Important actors in coastal risk management are political authorities, inhabitants of the respective region (households) as well as investors.\n\nTraditionally, coastal protection in Germany is focussed on technical protection measures (i.a. levees, artificial flood barriers). This approach has already been followed in the \"Generalplan Deichverstärkung, Deichverkürzung und Küstenschutz des Landes Schleswig-Holstein\" of 1963, a specific coastal protection plan for Schleswig-Holstein. Today (2017-2020), technical measures are still most probable to be funded by the state. According to the German Federal agency for the environment (UBA), coastal protection currently focusses on the fortification and heightening of levees and other protective structures, including retaining structures. It is a matter of discussion if and how these types of linear “hard” protection measures can in the face of climate change be extended to planar “soft” protection measures (e.g. (re-)instalment of shallow water areas to simultaneously reach nature conservation and climate protection goals).\n\nFacing future climate risks, coastal protection increasingly integrates landscape-based prevention measures. The German government aims to enhance synergies between “hard” and “soft” coastal protection measures by means of the \"Integriertes Küstenzonenmanagement\" approach (Integrated Coastal Zone Management\",\" IKZM). Its former general principle of “defending at all cost” is currently converting towards “living with water” and is putting stronger emphasis on changing climatic conditions. This means for example that in spaces where neither individuals nor material values are at risk, it is an option to partially open up dykes and thereby enable self-acting adaptation. Connected to that is the expressed ambition to coordinate adaptation measures, to fit coastal areas in an overall spatial context and to involve a wide range of relevant actors (e.g. authorities, interest groups, science). Essential weight is put on harmonising economic and social beneficiary claims with protection interests in the coastal zone by elaborating on development trajectories, conflict potentials and solutions at an early stage of planning. Another aspect of coordinated adaptation in coastal protection refers to connections between urban and rural areas. Coastal protection in rural areas in northern Germany should be seen in connection with protection measures in big cities such as Hamburg or Bremen where discussed “soft” measures are less easily to implement. In the cities, linear protection measures like levees and flood walls will probably be further enhanced/fostered but it would be interesting for cities to participate in solutions of laminar coastal protection.\n\nIn order to find and establish adequate measures to adapt coastal protection to climate change, responsible actors in coastal protection need to have sound and detailed local and hydromorphological knowledge. Even with that it is very difficult to predict direct and indirect consequences of climate change at the German coast. Challenging for planning authorities is a lack of clear information on future sea level dynamics. As there are no exact prognoses for sea level rise at the German coasts, planners of coastal protection measures as well as the inhabitants of the region are facing considerable uncertainties. Related to sea level rise, coastal protection has to react to higher base levels in the event of a storm flood. High storm flood levels are expected to be faster reached and longer lasting and storm floods that once only occurred every 350 years are predicted to happen once every 100 years by the middle of the 21st century. Especially in winter, stronger storms and higher levels of storm floods are expected as much as changes in sea condition that cause major cases of coastal erosion and can pose more strain on levees by increased wave runup. Existing levees have usually been constructed to protect the hinterland against floods that statistically occur once every 350 years. As a result of the expected sea level rise, storm floods become more likely and the levees have to be adapted to that in their construction.\n\nThe protection level of these so-called “hard” technical coastal protection measures is currently determined on the basis of records from historic flooding events, extrapolation (updating) of the previous sea level trends. Experts demand to better include a risk oriented design of coastal protection measures and land use planning at the German coast and to integrate climate change scenarios (e.g. by respecting long term climate change scenarios and the suspected rising sea level).\n\nInnovative coastal protection measures require consistent economic incentives. In Germany, these can be compensations in the case of income losses resulting from coastal protection measures or buying land for setting back levees. Further, (re-)established water areas can be interesting for tourism or aquaculture.\n\nThe German Federal government can fund up to 70% of the investment costs that the Länder spend for coastal protection measures. Within the \"Sonderrahmenplan: Maßnahmen des Küstenschutzes in Folge des Klimawandels (2009-2025)\" (\"special framework for climate change related coastal protection measures\"), 25 million euros are provided by the state and the Länder. Other funding can be applied from the European development funds EAFRD and ERDF. It is expected that the total costs for coastal protection will considerably rise within the next year to reach 800 to 1000 billion euros.\n\nClimate change influences the economy in German coastal regions which makes an adaptation in time necessary. This affects different economic sectors like the tourism industry, agriculture, the fishing industry or shipping.\n\nClimate change implies risks and opportunities for the regional tourism of the German coast.\n\nHigher temperatures and less precipitation in summer can enhance the attractiveness of coastal tourist destinations in Germany and extend the bathing season. The bathing season could be up to 60 days longer in 2100 which can entail around 25-30 percent more tourists. Higher numbers of visitors can open opportunities for the tourism industry, but can also lead to an overload for the local infrastructure. It increases the utilization pressure on ecosystems which is problematic as some places at the Baltic Sea have reached their capacity limit already.\n\nNegative consequences are expected due to sea level rise and bigger waves which cause beach erosion and contribute to an inland shifting of the coastline. This can adversely affect the beach tourism. Water sports and other tourism activities can be limited due to heavy swell. Heavy rainfalls and floods can damage tourism institutions.\n\nAn increasing growth of algaes, seaweed and bacteria can deteriorate the water quality. This can be dangerous for the health of tourists and therefore reduce the attractiveness of the affected places. More jellyfishes can reduce the attractiveness of seaside resorts.\n\nThe climate change adaptation strategies of the German coast are usually only indirectly linked to tourism as they are mainly coastal protection strategies, but also beneficial for the tourism industry. The adaptation possibilities depend on the individual characteristics of the specific holiday destinations. A difficulty is that climate change is not the only influencing factor on the tourism industry. Other external factors like different travel behavior or demographic changes have to be considered as well. In general, so called “no-regret-measures” are useful, which are strategies that are also beneficial without the effects of climate change as they contribute to a sustainable development of a certain region.\n\nMost important is the preservation of the touristic potential of the regions which means the protection of nature. Second, visitors increasingly demand a climate-conscious behavior of the tourist providers. Every measure should be accompanied with information material for guests and local inhabitants. Some strategies want to strengthen offers that are independent from climate change like indoor halls or wellness.\n\nThe current focus of climate change adaptation in the tourism industry is on sharing of information with all decision makers, network building and the development of strategic planning concepts. The adaptation willingness so far is rather low because of the complexity, uncertainty and the potential chances like a longer bathing season.\n\nAs a consequence of limate hange, the North Sea and Baltic Sea will warm up. The CO content of the water will increase which makes it more acid. Together with extreme weather events and sea level rise, it will threaten long exiting habitats. Fish stocks and the population of marine organisms as well as marine food webs and rivalry situations are changing.\n\nIn the North Sea, the warmer water leads to a shift of the habitats of cold loving fish stocks like codfish and plaice to lower water temperatures in the North. The population of other marine animals will decline due to warmer winters. Favored by the warming of the sea, new species that have lived in more southern areas before like anchovies or the Pacific oyster will appear in the North Sea. The Baltic Sea as a brackish water is characterized by a highly sensitive ecosystem. Small changes in temperature, salinity and oxygen content lead to a significant shift in the compound of species. Climate change can shift the walking and spawning seasons of fishes and the vulnerability to infections and parasites is increasing.\n\nThe shift of habitats of fish populations to the North combines with big financial losses for the local fishing industry which is an important economic sector for some structurally weak coastal areas. It especially affects very small, financially weak fishing companies. If these losses can be compensated by new species is not known yet. Coastal production facilities are in danger of being flooded or damaged by sea level rise and storm floods. Higher swell and extreme weather events can deteriorate the fishing conditions.\n\nIt’s hard to differentiate between the consequences of climate change and other influencing stress factors like overfishing, shipping or pollutants in the water.\n\nThere are different technical possibilities to make the fishing industry more sustainable. Improved fishing techniques and mesh sizes for nets contribute to reduce by-catches. A real-time monitoring of the catches could support the establishment of sanctuaries by justifying seasonal and territorial restrictions for the fishery. It makes an adaptation of the catch amount and fished species possible. Protection zones would help to recover the full reproductivity of fish stocks. It is important to explain the consumers which fish species can be bought and which not. New sources of income for fishermen, for example in the tourism industry, could be another strategy.\n\nThe potential climate change impacts at the German coast will pose risks and chances for the shipping industry to which especially harbours will have to adapt to. The economic eficiency of waterways, shipping routes and construction maesures depend on water conditions, current as well as sediment transport. The three KLIMZUG projects \"RADOST\", \"nordwest2050\" and \"KLIMZUG-NORD\" include research and adaptation strategies for harbours and the shipping industry in general. \n\nIt exists high uncertainty concerning the impacts of climate change on the local scale of the Port of Hamburg. A rise in sea level is expected to cause increased tidal range as well as higher flood current speed which will have effects on the water level of the Elbe river. Higher quantities of precipitation and extreme rainfalls related to climate change can lead to increased groundwater potential. Lower precipitation which is also likely can cause higher upstream transportation of sediments.\n\nFloods caused by storm floods, rise in water level due to climate change related sea level rise, higher precipitation and extreme rainfall can lead to disruption of transportation and can have negative effects on industries that depend on harbours. Stronger winds can complicate the storage of empty containers as well as navigation in the Harbour of Hamburg. Inland water transport can be hampered by the rise in sea level as for example the passing underneath bridges might not be possible any more for bigger ships. Increased sediment deposit can lead to lower water level which will limit the size of suitable ships. In contrast, higher air temperature and ice melting can have positive effects for the Hamburg Harbour economy. Less ice and snow would cause less damage on buildings and infrastructure in general which means less costs for reparation. Furthermore, less costs for disruption would result. With the melting of ice, a new shorter waterway to Asia would be accessible. This could be a more time and cost-effective alternative to the current shipping route.\n\nFor the implementation of adaptation strategies, it has to be dealt with a high uncertainty concerning the changes, the assessment of their likelihood as well as the calculation of the necessary resources. For the protection against increased floods and storm floods, on the one hand, technical solutions such as further dykes and the fortification of existing ones, flood barriers and on the other hand, the restoration of natural flood plains are being discussed. It might be necessary to raise existing bridges, roads and railways to ensure the crossability for bigger ships. Drainage systems will have to be adapted in order to deal with longer and higher storm floods as well as with higher middle Elbe water level. For the increased sediment transport, a regular maintenance of the water way in order to maintain a shippable water level will be necessary.\n\n"}
{"id": "23916394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23916394", "title": "Edith Margaret Garrud", "text": "Edith Margaret Garrud\n\nEdith Margaret Garrud (1872–1971) was among the first female professional martial arts instructors in the Western world. She trained the Bodyguard unit of the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) in jujutsu self-defence techniques.\n\nShe was born Edith Margaret Williams in 1872 in Bath, Somerset. Five years later, her family moved to Wales, where she remained until circa 1893. She married William Garrud, a physical culture instructor specializing in gymnastics, boxing and wrestling. They moved to London, where William found work as a physical culture trainer for several universities.\n\nIn 1899, the Garruds were introduced to the art of jiu jitsu by Edward William Barton-Wright, the first jiu jitsu teacher in Europe and the founder of the eclectic martial art of Bartitsu. Five years later, they became students at the jiu jitsu school of the former Bartitsu Club instructor Sadakazu Uyenishi in Golden Square, Soho. In 1907, Edith was featured as the protagonist in a short film entitled \"Jiu-jitsu Downs the Footpads\", which was produced by the Pathé Film Company.\n\nWhen Uyenishi left England in 1908, William took over as the owner and manager of the Golden Square school and Edith became the instructor of the women's and children's classes.\n\nThe Garruds popularised jujutsu by performing numerous exhibitions throughout London and by writing articles for magazines. Beginning in 1908, Edith also taught classes open only to members of the Suffrage movement. From 1911, these classes were based at the Palladium Academy, a dance school in Argyll Street.\n\nIn January 1911, Edith Garrud choreographed the fight scenes for a polemic play entitled \"What Every Woman Ought to Know\". In August that year, one of her articles on women's self-defence was published in \"Health and Strength\" magazine.\n\nIn 1913, the Asquith government instituted the so-called Cat and Mouse Act whereby Suffragette leaders on hunger strikes could legally be released from jail in order to recover their health and then re-arrested on the original charge. The WSPU responded by establishing a thirty-member, all-woman protection unit referred to as \"the Bodyguard\", the \"Jiujitsuffragettes\" and the \"Amazons\", to protect fugitive suffragettes from re-arrest. Edith Garrud became the very first trainer of the Bodyguard and taught them jujutsu and the use of Indian clubs as defensive weapons. Their lessons took place in a succession of secret locations to avoid the attention of the police. The Bodyguard fought a number of well-publicised hand-to-hand combats with police officers who were attempting to arrest their leaders.\n\nOn several occasions they were also able to stage successful escapes and rescues, making use of tactics such as disguise and the use of decoys to confuse the police. A number of these incidents are described in the unpublished memoir of Bodyguard member Katherine \"Kitty\" Marshall, titled \"Suffragette Escapes and Adventures\". Journalists coined the term \"suffrajitsu\" - a portmanteau of \"suffragette\" and \"jiujitsu\" - to describe their techniques of self-defence, sabotage and subterfuge.\n\nThe Bodyguard was disbanded shortly after the onset of the First World War. WSPU leader Emmeline Pankhurst had decided to suspend militant suffrage actions and to support the British Government during the crisis, and therefore no longer required protection.\n\nEdith and William Garrud continued to work as self-defence and jujutsu instructors until 1925, when they sold their school and appear to have retired from public life. There is some evidence to suggest that they may have been successful as investors in the property market. Edith is recorded as having made several contributions to various charitable causes during the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nIn 1966, on her 94th birthday, Edith Garrud was the subject of an extensive feature article published in \"Woman\" magazine.\n\nShe died in 1971 at the age of 99.\n\nEdith Garrud was portrayed by the actresses Judith Lowe and Jeanne Dorree for the Channel 4 docudrama \"The Year of the Bodyguard\" (1982), with Lowe playing Garrud circa 1913 and Dorree playing the elderly Garrud circa 1967.\n\nHer involvement with the Suffragettes is portrayed in Ann Bertram's play \"The Good Fight\" (2012), the story of the suffragette Grace Roe as performed by Theatre Unbound and in Peter Hilton's play \"Mrs Garrud's Dojo\" (2003).\n\nEdith Garrud also makes a cameo appearance in Issue #1 of the graphic novel trilogy \"\" (January 2015) and appears as a supporting character in the spin-off novella \"The Second-Story Girl\".\n\nThe character of Edith Ellyn in \"Suffragette\" was somewhat inspired by Edith Garrud. Helena Bonham Carter modeled her performance after Garrud and requested the character's name be changed from Caroline to Edith in her honour. The film includes a brief scene in which Mrs. Ellyn teaches self-defence to a group of radical suffragettes.\n\nEdith Garrud is featured two re-enactment scenes in the documentary \"No Man Shall Protect Us\" (2018), portrayed by actress Lynne Baker.\n\nOn 30 June 2011, an Islington People's Plaque was placed outside Edith Garrud's former home in Thornhill Square by Islington London Borough Council.\n\nOn 23 April 2013, Edith Garrud's image was included in a sculpture installation unveiled outside Finsbury Park bus and tube station.\n\nOn May 12, 2014 Edith Garrud was the subject of a short documentary screened by BBC1's The One Show, presented by Honor Blackman.\n\n"}
{"id": "586739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586739", "title": "Empire Club of Canada", "text": "Empire Club of Canada\n\nThe Empire Club of Canada is a Canadian speakers forum. Established in 1903, the Empire Club has provided a forum for over 3,500 different speakers.\n\nThrough a variety of presentation formats, the Empire Club invites local, national and international leaders and other change-agents to address the topical, relevant issues of the day. The club is based in Toronto, with luncheon style meetings held at the Royal York Hotel or another venue of similar calibre.\n\nThe Empire Club of Canada was established in 1903 as a result of a political discussion which created considerable unrest in Canada. Growing dissent against the British was influencing Toronto's political and social landscape. In an attempt to refrain from a hasty, myopic severing of ties with the British Empire, a group of men under the leadership of Brig.-Gen. James Mason discussed the creation of an organization that would promote public discourse and discussion about key issues of the day, both at home and abroad.\n\nWith this mandate in mind, the group gathered to draft the constitution for a new club to be named The Empire Club of Canada. Canada's \"Imperial bond\" with Britain was the cornerstone of the Empire Club of Canada, as its founders believed it would be beneficial to Canada to maintain strong political and economic ties with the Empire. This organization, with a plan of weekly luncheons, which would be addressed by prominent individuals who spoke with authority on the issues of the day, would also have the distinctive basis of the British connection in its work and policy. Membership was restricted to British subjects—there was no legal Canadian citizenship at the time—who would pay dues of one dollar a year, with a maximum membership of 500. Within a month, membership exceeded 300. A year or two later, the club had a waiting list of those wishing to join.\n\nThe first luncheon speaker on December 3, 1903, was a clergyman and professor, William Clark, who said: \"I can quite understand that to many persons, the formation of a club of this kind will seem a very little thing, ... I have not the least doubt that this Club will become of great influence and power in this Dominion\". Clark's address became the first of many, with the Empire Club's podium hosting countless great leaders of politics, business, social issues and arts & culture. Notable speakers include Winston Churchill, Stephen Leacock, Indira Gandhi, Billy Graham, Ronald Reagan, A.Y. Jackson, The Dalai Lama, Bill Gates, Audrey Hepburn, Mark Carney and nearly every Canadian Prime Minister since Robert Borden.\n\nThe Empire Club of Canada continues to be recognized as one of Canada's oldest and most important speakers forums. Since its inaugural meeting in December 1903, the Empire Club of Canada has provided a forum to discuss ongoing issues of local, national and international importance. More than 3,500 addresses have been delivered from the Empire Club podium, and every address is kept on record in the Empire Club of Canada's annual Red Book. Upcoming speakers can be found alongside the historic speeches at www.empireclub.org.\n\nSome highly notable speakers who have addressed the Empire Club podium have included:\n\nThe Empire Club Foundation was incorporated in January 1969 and serves as a vehicle for the publication and wide-distribution of the annual compilation of speeches. Copies are sent to a large distribution of schools, libraries, consulates and embassies.\n\nRegistered as a charity, its objectives are to promote the interest in current and public affairs, and to establish a historical database of all Empire Club speeches. All of the Empire Club speeches since 1903 are available via the Empire Club's website. In 2010, John Koopman, Past President of the Empire Club of Canada, was appointed as the Chair of the Empire Club Foundation.\n\nThe following people have served as president of the Empire Club:\n\nThe Empire Club was featured in an episode of the long running historical crime drama series, \"Murdoch Mysteries\", with guest star William Shatner. The episode first aired on October 12, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1411948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1411948", "title": "Funj people", "text": "Funj people\n\nThe Funj are an ethnic group in present-day Sudan. The Funj set up the Funj Sultanate of Sinnar with Abdallah Jamma and ruled the area for several centuries. The Funj risen in southern Nubia and had overthrew the remnants of the old Christian kingdom of Alodia. In 1504 a Funj leader named Amara Dunqas, founded the Black Sultanate at Sannar (the capital). The Black Sultanate soon became the keystone of the Funj Empire. \n\nThe origins of the Funj are not clearly known. However, there are three different hypotheses regarding their origin. One source claims Funj are descendants of Banu Umayya, who escaped the slaughter of the Abbasids by fleeing into Abyssinia and moving inward in to the Nubian territory who had been known in Arabia since ancient times to protect guests and refugees. The second hypothesis comes from James Bruce, who theorized in his book Travels to Discover the Source of the Nile that the Funj descend from the Shilluk people. Bruce wrote his book after 22 years of travel through North Africa and Ethiopia. The third hypothesis is that they are descents of the remnants of the Kingdom of Alodia Nubians who escaped further south to replenish their supplies and resources and returned to establish their state. The most cited source is that they are Nubians who mixed with Arabs.\n"}
{"id": "16347766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16347766", "title": "Gamo-Gofa-Dawro language", "text": "Gamo-Gofa-Dawro language\n\nGamo-Gofa-Dawro is an Omotic language of the Afroasiatic family spoken in the Dawro, Gamo Gofa and Wolayita Zones of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region in Ethiopia. Varieties are spoken by the Gamo, Gofa, Dawro; Blench (2006) and \"Ethnologue\" treat these as separate languages. Dialects of Dawro (Kullo-Konta) are Konta and Kucha. In 1992, Alemayehu Abebe collected a word-list of 322 entries for all three related dialects.\n\n"}
{"id": "25161464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25161464", "title": "Gender inequality in Australia", "text": "Gender inequality in Australia\n\nGender inequality can be defined as the unequal treatment of individuals based on their gender. Individuals can be marginalised and discriminated from society and be restricted to participate in society due to their gender. In Australia, gender inequality denotes the inconsistencies between individuals due to gender. Australian women, men, and transgender and non-binary people all experience aspects of gender inequality. The sections below explain how and why women, men, and transgender and non-binary people experience gender inequality in their daily lives in Australia. \n\nIn response to the concerns, the Australian government has implemented various legislation such as the \"Sex Discrimination Act 1984\". The legislation covers the issues of discrimination in education, partnerships, marital status, sexual harassment and potential pregnancy.\n\nThe Workplace Gender Equality Agency is an Australian Government statutory agency charged with promoting and improving gender equality in Australian workplaces. It is responsible for administering the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 (which replaced the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act 1999). The Workplace Gender Equality Agency was formerly known as the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency. \n\nOver half (50.7%) of the Australian population are women. Many of these women experience inequality in numerous aspects of their lives because of their gender. Women often have fewer choice and opportunities compared to men because of their gender. As a result, women are disproportionate to men in their work life and economic aspects, societal roles, and in violence rates in Australia.\n\nThe gender pay gap is where men and women do not receive equal pay for equal work. In Australia, the principle of \"equal pay for equal work\" was introduced in 1969. Anti-discrimination on the basis of sex was legislated in 1984. All government statistics in this area do not compare like-for-like roles but are an average on both male and female total wages.\n\nBetween 1990 and 2009, the gender pay gap remained within a narrow range of between 15 and 17%. In November 2017, the Australian gender pay gap was 15.3%. In 2018, it was reported that Australia’s full-time gender pay gap was 14.6% and women earnt on average $244.80 per week less than men. It was also reported that Western Australia had the highest pay gap by state and territory (22.4%), while the lowest pay gap was reported in Tasmania (9.7%). As well, the highest pay gap by industry in Australia was Financial and Insurance Services (26.6%) and the lowest pay gap by industry was Public Administration and Safety (5.8%).\n\nStudies show that unexplained differences in wages may be due to direct discrimination, or to other unmeasured differences between men and women, calculations do not account for education, experience or area of work so little can be known about the causes.\n\nStudies that examine the gender pay gap across the entire wage distribution find that the gender pay gap is much greater among high wage earners than among low wage earners even after controlling for various individual and workplace related factors. These results indicate that a glass ceiling may be found in the Australian labour market.\n\nIn Australia, occupational segregation is very present in many industries. Occupations are highly segregated by gender which results in male-dominated occupations and female-dominated occupations. In 2016, it was reported that Construction and Mining industries had the highest representation of men. 88.3% of workers in construction industries and 86.3% in mining industries were men. Whereas, it was reported that Health Care and Social Assistance, and Education and Training industries had the highest representation of women. Women made up 78.3% workers in Health Care and Social Assistance, and Women accounted for 70.9% of Education and Training industries in 2016.\n\nIt is also important to note that in eight industries women made up less than 40% of all workers in 2016. These industries include Information Media and Telecommunications (37.6%); Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing (30.9%); Wholesale Trade (30.1%); Manufacturing (27.3%); Electricity, Gas, Water and Waste Services (22.4%); Transport, Postal and Warehousing (21.7%); Mining (13.7%); and Construction (11.7%).\n\nMany women have substantially lower superannuation payouts for retirement than men in Australia. In 2015-2016, it was reported that the average super payout for an Australian man was $270,710, while the average super payout for an Australian woman was $157,050. This means, the average Australian woman had $113,660 less superannuation for retirement than the average Australian man. As a result of many women having fewer superannuation funds than men, it can often lead to women having financial hardships in retirement. Women are more likely to experience poverty when retired and more likely to be reliant and dependent on the Age Pension compared to men. In 2018, it was reported that 55% of women aged 65 years or more were receiving the Age Pension. \n\nTypically, women take on roles of being carers in society. In 2018, it was reported that 68% of primary carers are women, 70% of primary unpaid carers for children are women, and 58% of primary unpaid carers for the elderly and people with a disability or long-term health conditions are women. As a result, women spend 64.4% of their total work day performing unpaid care work, compared to men who spend 36.1% of their total work day performing unpaid care work. This equates to women spending almost twice as many hours performing unpaid care work each day compared to men. Women are also spending almost three times as much time each day caring for children compared to men. \n\nMany Australian women have experienced sexual harassment and/or sexual or physical violence in their lifetime. In 2018, it was reported that one in two women have experienced sexual harassment and one in three women have experienced physical or sexual violence. It is also important to note that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander women are more likely to experience sexual harassment and violence. In 2018, it was reported that these women experience violence at around twice the rate of non-Indigenous women.\n\nNumerous Australian women have experienced domestic violence in their homes. In 2018, it was reported that one in five Australian women have experienced violence by an intimate partner since the age of 15. It was also reported in 2018 that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander women are 34 times more likely to be hospitalised from domestic violence than Australian women. As a result, intimate partner violence is the largest contributor to ill health, death, and disability for many women. This is larger than any other contributor to ill health for women such as obesity, alcohol, and illicit drugs. Due to these high rates, it was estimated in 2015-2016 that domestic violence against women and their children was costing the Australian Government $22 billion.\n\nDifferences in health is illustrated through the data retrieved from the ABS, where it gap between men and women in terms of life expectancy. In 1998, the life expectancy of men was 75.9 compared to 81.5 for women.\n\nStatistics regarding homelessness within Australia have revealed distinct variances in the experiences of differing genders.\n\nOf people who stay in boarding houses and ‘sleep rough’, statistics were largely skewed towards the male population, 74.8% and 67.6% of the homeless population, respectively. However, causes of homelessness differed amongst younger and older populations of homeless males. Whilst younger men aged 15-24 reported family breakdowns, older males were more likely to cite financial crisis, or an inability to afford housing.\n\nAmong these sub-groups of the male homeless population, recent migrants to Australia were overrepresented, making up 15% of the homeless population. Within this 15%, 60% of migrants identified as male.\n\nWithin prisons throughout Australia, the male population makes up the majority of those imprisoned. Specifically in New South Wales, over 9 in 10 (92%) of prisoners were male.\n\nThe rate of male prisoners has continued to increase in recent years. Growing from 398 to 406 prisoners per 100,000 male adult population.\n\nAmong the imprisoned population of Australia, there is a vast overrepresentation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, accounting for just over a quarter (27%) of the Australian prisoner population. This is despite only accounting for 2% of the Australian population. These incarceration rates regarding male Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander individuals have increased by 22.4% between 2000 and 2010.\n\nThe male population of Australia disproportionately commits violence at a much higher rate than the rest of the Australian population.\n\nA report released in Victoria by the Crime Statistics Agency reported that around 80% of all crime in Australia was committed by men. \n\nA number of scholars regard male supremacy as a driving force in over-representations of men within instances of violence and crime. Psychologist Torrey Orton reiterates this need to have power recognised and acknowledged by greater society therefore contributing to astronomical rates of male crime and violence. (Gilmore, 2017).  \n\nMale’s mental health outcomes throughout Australia are disproportionate to those experienced by a number of populations in Australia.\n\nWhilst Australian women are more likely to experience general mental illness than men, across all Australian states and territories, men are three times more likely to commit suicide than women.\n\nDespite this high prevalence of suicide amongst the Australian male population, only 27% of men sought out professional mental health services, compared to 40% of women.\n\nMen also had twice the rate of substance abuse compared to the general population. This rate of substance abuse is also five times more likely amongst those who have previously been incarcerated, which has been shown to be made up of, dominantly, the male population\n\nIn attempting to explain these disproportionate figures regarding men's mental health in Australia, a qualitative study into men’s suicide rates identified substantial misinterpretation of men regarding their behaviour and thinking (Player et al., 2015). The CEO of national mental health charity SANE Australia has also stated that, \"There's a belief that the very idea of being a man is that you deal with stuff and you don't reach out or connect. Untreated, the problem snowballs. The combination of that and the notion of having to deal with it alone, is the reason behind high suicide rates.\" \n\nThe economic life of the gender diverse community in Australia is distinctly inconsistent compared to other populations throughout Australia.\n\nIn study conducted by Beyond Blue into the mental health of transgender Australians, a number of participants identified difficulty in finding employment. This difficulty stemmed directly from their gender identity. Within the same study, contributors also reported instances of loss of employment following the decision to transition, or during their transition process.\n\nApart from difficulty in finding and retaining employment, pay rates for gender diverse individuals differ from those of the greater Australian community. Dawn Hough, director of support program ‘Pride in Diversity’, puts forth that pay equity rates for transgender and intersex individuals may be even lower than others in the LGBTQI community.\n\nWithin Australian society, transgender and other gender diverse peoples have experienced dramatic occurrences of harassment and discrimination.\n\nThese examples of harassment and discrimination occur in a variety of ways. Purposely misgendering an individual who identifies as gender diverse is an act of discrimination with severe ramifications for the mental health of transgender peoples. Australia came a close second to the United States of America in stating that they would intentionally misgender a trans person as an act of disrespect.\n\nConsidering these statistics, it is unsurprising that this same survey also found that only two in five cisgender individuals were willing to use correct pronouns when referring to transgender peoples. Even smaller, only one in five would use the gender neutral term ‘they’ when referring to non-binary or gender non-conforming individuals.\n\nOther occurrences of discrimination include forms of verbal and physical abuse. In terms of verbal abuse, around two in three (66%) of trans and gender diverse people reported that they had experienced verbal abuse based solely on their gender identity (Smith et al., 2014). This harassment was most often expressed by strangers calling out to them on streets, yet also involved abuse delivered by immediate family members in close confines (Smith et al., 2014).\n\nMore than one in five (21%), transgender and gender diverse individuals also stated that they had experienced physical abuse (Smith et al., 2014). These occurrences most often occurred on the street, yet were also closely followed by instances of violence at school and on public transport (Smith et al., 2014).\n\nUnsurprisingly, the same study also revealed that 43% of trans and gender non-conforming individuals felt unsafe on public streets, with 32% also feeling unsafe on public transport (Smith et al., 2014).. It was also shown that transgender and gender diverse people actively avoided some public places for their own safety. These places were most often gendered spaces, including bathrooms and public change rooms (Smith et al., 2014).\n\nTransgender and gender diverse individuals have been proven to have dramatically reduced mental health outcomes than the greater Australian population.\n\nTrans individuals have been identified as a high-risk group for suicide, with one in five respondencts reporting they had thoughts of suicidal ideation or self-harm in at least half the days of the previous fortnight. Within the same survey, over half (57.2%) of respondents reported they had been diagnosed with depression, with younger individuals more likely to report poorer mental health than older respondents (Smith et al., 2014).\n\nAuthors of the study also identified trans women as being over five times more likely to commit suicide than the general population, whilst trans men were more than double (Smith et al., 2014). Authors of the study could not pinpoint the exact reasoning for this discrepancy in mental health outcomes even among trans individuals. However, those analysing this data reported that this might be due to trans women having fewer sources of support, as they more often live alone (Smith et al., 2014).. Authors also noted that trans women might find it more difficult to transition within society, due to the powerful effects of testosterone on bone structure (Smith et al., 2014).\n\nIn regards to factors affecting a positive effect on their mental health, transgender and gender diverse peoples reported that feeling acknowledged and supported in their gender identity along with feeling free to express their identity as they wish had positive repercussions on their mental health outcomes (Smith et al., 2014).\n\nFactors that had distinct negative impacts on mental health included, obviously, discrimination and harassment (Smith et al., 2014). Other negative impacts included dysmorphia, due to being unable to ‘medically’ transition. This is often a result of excessive medical costs. Feeling unaccepted by friends and family, along with the general public also had distinct negative impacts on mental health outcomes (Smith et al., 2014).\n\nThere are clear disparities in the mental health outcomes for that of the trans and gender diverse populations. However, disparities also arise in the provision of health services, along with experiences of general health outcomes\n\nThere is a distinct underutilisation of a number of medical and clinical health services among transgender and gender diverse individuals. A small Western Australian study conducted in 2006 with 50 transgender and gender diverse adults reported significant underutilisation of cervical pap smears and mammograms (Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex Health and Wellbeing Ministerial Advisory Committee, 2014).\n\nIt was also discovered that whilst often utilising the services of general practitioners, trans and gender diverse individuals had experienced a breadth of harassment and discrimination when accessing these health services (Riggs & Due, 2013). Feelings of having to educate practitioners on their own gender identify especially led to participants feeling less respected (Riggs & Due, 2013).\n\nWestern terminology is often inadequate in discussions regarding the gender identity of Indigenous communities. In an Australian context, the terminology of ‘sistergirls’ and ‘brotherboys’ is used to describe gender diverse Indigenous Australians (Toone 2015). It has been proven that these aspects of Indigenous identity existed long before western colonialism (Toone 2015).\nThe organisation Sisters and Brothers NT also state that, “There is documented evidence and oral history of Sistergirl identity in some communities pre-dating colonisation. A number of historic and contemporary words exist to describe Sistergirls including “Kwarte Kwarte” in Arrente, “Kungka Kungka” in Pitjantjatjara and Luritja, “Yimpininni” in Tiwi, “Karnta Pia” in Warlpiri which can be interpreted as “like a girl”. Whilst “Kungka Wati” in Pintipi and “Girriji Kati” in Waramungu literally mean “woman/man.” (Toone 2015)\n\nDue to this intersection as members of the LGBTQI community and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders, the discrimination experienced by these individuals is at an extremely significant level, even when compared to the harassment experienced by other members of the transgender and gender diverse community (Kerry, 2015). These additional experiences of racism, even encountered within the LGBTQI community, along with facing transphobia within their traditional communities have led to distinct experiences of oppression unique to this community (Kerry, 2015).\n\n"}
{"id": "44483622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44483622", "title": "Homohysteria", "text": "Homohysteria\n\nHomohysteria is the fear of being thought homosexual because of behavior that is typically considered gender atypical. Homohysteria can exist in cultures where it is understood that people are and can be homosexual, even if closeted, and that homosexuality is perceived as less desirable than heterosexuality. This combination leads to men fearing others will think they are gay if they do not fit male gender stereotypes. Not fitting into gender stereotypes (gender atypicality) has historically been associated with gay men, with the trials of Oscar Wilde furthering this belief in Britain and elsewhere, with his conviction of gross indecency furthering public stereotypes about gay males. Because of these misconceptions, many stereotypically \"masculine-acting\" gay men were exempt from public suspicion about their sexuality.\n\nHomohysteria is a concept established as part of Professor Eric Anderson's Inclusive Masculinity Theory. Both Eric Anderson and Mark McCormack argue that there are three social conditions that must be met for a homohysteric culture to exist: (1) widespread awareness that male homosexuality exists as an immutable sexual orientation within a significant portion of a culture's population; (2) high levels of homophobia in that culture; and (3) an association of gender atypicality with homosexuality. These varying levels of social conditions help explain various social trends concerning masculinities.\n\nFor example, homohysteria helps explain how men in many Islamic countries are permitted to engage in physical and emotional intimacy (including hand-holding) without threat to their publicly perceived heterosexual identities; whereas two men holding hands in America are perceived as gay, men in Islamic countries are not considered homosexual for partaking in the same behaviours. This is due to a belief that men in these societies could not be gay, with Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad claiming Iran had no gay people, and others declaring homosexuality to be the \"white man's disease\".\n\nLikewise, homohysteria has the ability to explain nuances between male tactility over time, with the work of John Ibson found a decrease in social distance between men in group photographs, which can be understood through utilising homohysteria. This concept has been utilised in explaining homophobia and gender policing among females also; primarily by Rachael Bullingham in her exploration of the athletes experiences in team sports.\n\nWestern homohysteria is believed by Eric Anderson to have peaked in the 1980s, following the HIV/AIDS epidemic amongst gay men.\n\nAs a culture becomes less homophobic and there is less of a stigma around physical platonic affection between men, the lives of heterosexual men are improved, as they are less aggressive and physically alienated from one another.\n"}
{"id": "31515240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31515240", "title": "Human trafficking in Burundi", "text": "Human trafficking in Burundi\n\nBurundi is a source country for children and possibly women subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically conditions of involuntary domestic servitude and forced prostitution. Children and young adults may also be coerced into forced labor on plantations or small farms in southern Burundi, or to conduct informal commerce in the streets. Some traffickers are the victims’ family members or friends who, under the pretext of assisting underprivileged children with education or with false promises of lucrative jobs, subject them to forced labor, most commonly as domestic servants. While there is little evidence of large-scale child prostitution, “benevolent” older females offer vulnerable younger girls room and board within their homes, and in some cases eventually push them into prostitution to pay for living expenses; extended family members also financially profit from the commercial sexual exploitation of young relatives residing with them. Male tourists from Oman and the United Arab Emirates exploit Burundian girls in prostitution. Businessmen recruit Burundian girls for commercial sexual exploitation in Rwanda, Kenya, and Uganda, and recruit boys and girls for exploitation in various types of forced labor in Tanzania. Unlike in past years, there were no reports of forced or voluntary recruitment of children into government armed forces or rebel groups during the reporting period.\n\nThe government made clear progress in combating trafficking during the reporting period, particularly with regard to identifying trafficking victims, investigating potential trafficking offenses, and raising public awareness. In 2009, a Bujumbura court heard a case involving child domestic servitude, the first known prosecution of a case involving elements of a human trafficking offense. Significant work remains, however, in educating government officials and local populations about the nature of human trafficking, bringing cases to trial, and providing protective services to victims.\n\nThe U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 3\" in 2017.\n\nThe government’s anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts increased during the reporting period, particularly its efforts to detect and investigate suspected human trafficking offenses. This progress continued, however, to be hampered by lack of investigative equipment and training, poor evidence gathering by police, the unwillingness of victims to lodge complaints, and the failure of prosecutors to vigorously pursue cases after receiving evidence from police and suspected victims. Articles 242 and 243 of Burundi’s criminal code prohibit human trafficking and smuggling, and prescribe sentences of five to 20 years’ imprisonment; the code does not, however, provide a definition of human trafficking, limiting its utility. Sex trafficking offenses can also be punished using penal code statutes on brothel-keeping and pimping (penalties of one to five years’ imprisonment), as well as child prostitution (penalties of five to 10 years’ imprisonment). These penalties are sufficiently stringent and commensurate with those prescribed for other serious offenses, such as rape. The criminal code prescribes no explicit penalties for forced labor, though it is prohibited by Article 2 of the labor law.\n\nA Bujumbura court fined a woman $42 for abusing her 12-year-old domestic servant by burning her with melted plastic bags. Upon her arrest, police located the child’s aunt, who returned the child to her parents in Bururi province. In August 2009, police arrested a Burundian man for kidnapping six boys between the ages of 12 and 13 and transporting them to Tanzania for forced labor in tobacco fields. The suspect’s provisional release was revoked after an appeal from the prosecutor’s office, and he remains in pre-trial detention in Rutana Province prison. Throughout 2009, the Women and Children’s Brigade, a specialized police unit, successfully identified and rescued 10 of 17 child victims exploited by an international prostitution ring and returned them to their families; the alleged traffickers have not been arrested due to a lack of concrete evidence. In January 2010, police charged three men and their landlord with corruption of minors and incitement to debauchery after the former were found pimping underage girls from a rental house; the prosecution remained in the pre-trial stage at the end of the reporting period. During a December 2009 meeting with high-ranking police officials, President Nkurunziza instructed the police force to increase efforts to fight human trafficking. As a result of this mandate, police initiated a crackdown on clandestine brothels that housed potential trafficking victims in January 2010, shutting down three small hotels in the industrial quarter of Bujumbura. The government did not provide trafficking-specific training for law enforcement officials.\n\nDespite its notable efforts to return trafficked children to their families, the government did not adequately ensure that trafficking victims received access to necessary protective services during the reporting period. The few care centers that exist in Burundi are operated by NGO's, religious organizations, and women’s or children’s associations. Police provided limited shelter and food assistance to victims in temporary police custody while authorities attempted to locate their families; these children were housed in a holding area separate from adult detainees. In some instances, the police, especially members of the Women and Children’s Brigade, provided counseling to children in prostitution and mediated between these victims and their parents. In January 2010, police rescued three child sex trafficking victims from a brothel in Bujumbura, documented their testimonies, and returned them to their families. In 2009, government officials identified 18 trafficking victims, 10 of whom were victims of forced prostitution and eight of whom were victims of forced labor. In January 2010, Burundi’s Interpol office assisted the government in repatriating a 15-year-old Burundian boy from Rwanda where he was forced to work as a domestic servant. In cooperation with Tanzanian police, the government repatriated six Burundian child trafficking victims from Tanzania in July 2009. Between April and June, the National Commission for Disarmament, Demobilization, and Reintegration oversaw the demobilization and short-term care of the final 380 child soldiers from the Forces Nationale de Libération (FNL) rebel group and from among alleged FNL dissidents in the Randa and Buramata sites. With outside funding, the Commission’s staff provided medical screening, psychosocial counseling, and sensitization on peaceful cohabitation, while conducting family tracing; the children were reunited with their families in July 2009.\n\nIn October 2009, the government established a Municipal Council for Children and Youth (CMEJ) to assist at-risk youth and develop a transit center for victims of human trafficking, demobilized child soldiers, and street children. The CMEJ began drafting an action plan in March 2010 and sought the necessary international funding to become fully operational. The government has not developed a system for proactively identifying trafficking victims among vulnerable populations or a referral process to transfer such trafficking victims to organizations providing services. While police interviewed child victims during the investigations of their abusers, the prosecutor’s office did not pursue the possibility of child victims' participation in prosecutions of trafficking offenders. The government did not inappropriately incarcerate or otherwise penalize victims for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked. Burundian law did not provide foreign trafficking victims with legal alternatives to their removal to a country where they may face hardship or retribution.\n\nThe government made clear progress in its efforts to prevent trafficking during the year. In February 2010, the Commander of the Women and Children’s Brigade began a tour of the country to sensitize local government officials and inform local populations on the danger of human trafficking. In 2009, the Ministry of Labor sponsored eight workshops for teachers, magistrates, communal administrators, and agricultural workers to raise awareness of the dangers of child labor and trafficking. In partnerships with the ILO and UNICEF, it also conducted a sensitization campaign in several provinces to warn against child trafficking for forced labor and abusing former child soldiers, centered on the World Day Against Child Labour in June. The Ministry of Labor’s 12 inspectors conducted no child labor inspections in 2009. The government did not undertake efforts to reduce demand for commercial sex acts during the reporting period. The pre-deployment anti-trafficking training for Burundian peacekeepers, provided by a foreign government, included a curriculum that created awareness and discouraged acts of trafficking and sexual exploitation. Burundi is not a party to the 2000 UN TIP Protocol.\n\n"}
{"id": "51467184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51467184", "title": "Indo-Portuguese Creole of Bombay", "text": "Indo-Portuguese Creole of Bombay\n\nThe Indo-Portuguese Creole of Bombay was a creole language based on Portuguese, which grew out of the long contact between the Portuguese and local languages. Currently this language is extinct. It was spoken in Bombay (now Mumbai) and northern India: Bassein, Salsette, Thana, Chevai, Mahim, Tecelaria, Dadar, Parel, Cavel, Bandora-Badra, Govai, Marol, Andheri, Versova, Malvan, Manori, Mazagaon. This language was, after the Ceylon creole dialect of Indo-Portuguese, the most important. In 1906 there were still close to 5,000 people who spoke Portuguese Creole as their mother tongue, 2,000 in Mumbai and Mahim, 1000 in Bandora, 500 in Thana, 100 in Curla (now Kurla), 50 in Bassein and 1,000 in other towns. There were, at that time, schools that taught Creole and the richest classes, which were replaced by the English language.\n\n"}
{"id": "3980631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3980631", "title": "Iru (food)", "text": "Iru (food)\n\nIrú or Eware (Edo) is a type of fermented and processed locust beans (\"Parkia biglobosa\") used as a condiment in cooking. It is similar to ogiri and douchi. It is very popular among the Yoruba people and Edo people of Nigeria. It is used in cooking traditional soups like egusi soup, okro soup, Ewedu soup and ogbono soup.\nAmong the Manding-speaking people of West Africa irú is known as sumbala.The Yorubas classify iru into two types: Iru Woro which is commonly use in making stew and Iru Pete which is used in making ewedu and egusi soup.\n\nIt can be found fresh or dried. The fresh variety is usually wrapped in moimoi leaves , which are similar in appearance and texture to banana leaves. It has a very pungent smell.\n\nThe dried variety is flattened into discs or cakes for sale. Dried iru is weaker in flavor and pungency than fresh (though frying dried iru in cooking oil will restore much of the flavor). The dried variety stores very well in freezers.\n\nThe most valuable part of the locust beans are high in lipid(29%), protein(35%), and carbohydrate(16%). It is a good source of calcium and fat for rural dwellers.\n\nDuring fermentation, the reducing sugar content increases, and the total free amino acid content initially decreases; in the end, however, there is a large increase in free amino acid content.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13677265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13677265", "title": "Jim Fyffe", "text": "Jim Fyffe\n\nJames William Fyffe (November 20, 1945 – May 15, 2003) was a United States sportscaster and radio talk-show host best known as the play-by-play announcer for Auburn Tigers football and basketball.\n\nA native of Paintsville, Kentucky, Fyffe became Auburn's play-by-play announcer in 1981 and spent 22 seasons calling Auburn football games. His signature \"TOUCHDOWN AUBURN\" call was beloved by Auburn fans. During his tenure as the voice of the Auburn Tigers, Fyffe shared the Auburn broadcast booth with three former Auburn quarterbacks. Pat Sullivan, the 1971 Heisman Trophy winner was the color commentator from 1981 to 1985. When Sullivan joined the Auburn coaching staff in 1986, he was replaced by Charlie Trotman, the Tigers quarterback from 1977 to 1979. When Trotman stepped down after the 2000 season, Stan White (the Tigers quarterback from 1990 to 1993) replaced him and worked with Fyffe during his final two seasons in the broadcast booth.\n\nFyffe also called Auburn basketball for 22 years. During basketball games, Fyffe was known to say \"hello\" to an Auburn player's home town following a slam dunk. According to Fyffe, this tradition started after Charles Barkley asked him to say hello to all the people in Leeds, Alabama, Barkley's hometown. Fyffe told Barkley that he would have to dunk the ball for him to do that. Barkley did, and thus began a tradition that Fyffe continued throughout his years behind the Auburn microphone. Fyffe also hosted \"Tiger Talk\", the Auburn Network's weekly radio call-in show until 1998, when Rod Bramblett succeeded him.\n\nFyffe would end every broadcast by saying, \"My time's up, I thank you for yours.\" He would occasionally alter the phrase to be, \"Our time's up, we thank you for yours.\"\n\nFyffe was also the play-by-play announcer for the USFL's Birmingham Stallions, Birmingham Steeldogs and Columbus Wardogs of the Arena Football League. He was also the public address announcer for Talladega Superspeedway for 20 years, and was associated with the Blue–Gray Football Classic in Montgomery.\n\nFyffe was a pioneer in sports-talk radio in Alabama, hosting one of the first such shows in Montgomery in the 1970s. At the time of his death, Fyffe hosted a sports-talk show on WACV in Montgomery, Alabama.\n\nOn May 14, 2003, Fyffe attended an Auburn alumni meeting in Prattville, Alabama where he gave a speech opening for Auburn head football coach Tommy Tuberville. Shortly after arriving home, he complained of a headache to his wife, Rose, and eventually collapsed. He was rushed by ambulance to Montgomery's Jackson Hospital where he was diagnosed with a brain aneurysm. Fyffe was removed from life support and pronounced dead at approximately 10:00 AM on May 15, 2003. Following the announcement of his death, many sports talk shows and Alabama TV newscasts played some of his most notable calls, and allowed fans and colleagues of Fyffe to share some of their favorite stories and voice grief over the loss. A public memorial service for Fyffe was held in Montgomery at Leak Memory Chapel, followed by a public funeral at First United Methodist Church. Fyffe is buried at Greenwood Cemetery in Montgomery, Alabama.\n\nFyffe was survived by his wife Rose, five children, five grandchildren and one great grandchild.\n\nRose Fyffe died on June 5, 2011.\n\nFyffe was named Alabama Sportscaster of the Year nine times during his career, and received numerous honors from the Auburn University Board of Trustees, the Alabama State Legislature, the Montgomery City Council, and the Auburn Alumni Association.\n\nHe was posthumously inducted into the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame in 2005.\n\nRod Bramblett succeeded Fyffe in the Auburn broadcast booth. During each football game broadcast, Bramblett remembers Fyffe by using his signature \"Touchdown Auburn\" call at least once during the course of a broadcast.\n\nFyffe suffered from diabetes during his life. Upon his death, the Jim Fyffe Diabetes Research Fund at Auburn University was created in his memory. The fund supports graduate students conducting diabetes research and provides funding for diabetes research projects. The fund was established by Auburn University, the Auburn Network and Fyffe's widow, Rose Fyffe.\n\nIn his autobiography, Fyffe admitted that this call, from the October 17, 1987 game at Georgia Tech was probably the call he was most known for, and he considered it the second greatest Auburn win at the time the book was written (1996). This call is on every collection of memorable radio calls released by the Auburn Network, and it was the call that Paul Finebaum played to open his show on the day of Fyffe's death.\n\nAuburn was heavily favored in the game with Georgia Tech, and this game was to be the last yearly meeting between the two rivals. But with 4:01 to play in the game, Auburn trailed 10-7 and needed to go 91-yards to score. The Tigers moved down the field behind the passing of quarterback Jeff Burger and, 16 plays later, were at the Georgia Tech four-yard-line with only 29 seconds to play:\n\nThe pass from Jeff Burger to receiver Lawyer Tillman completed a 17 play, 91-yard drive and the PAT gave Auburn a 14-10 lead. The Tigers' Aundray Bruce completed the scoring by returning a tipped pass for a touchdown on the last play of the game, and Auburn won 20-10. Fyffe received some criticism from the call...mainly, he said, from Alabama fans. Some in the media criticized him, saying they couldn't tell what was happening. Of the call, Fyffe said, \"Frankly, in listening to the replay of the call through the years, I've never thought it was my best. I probably did go too crazy, but I think the listener could tell what was going on without any problem. No matter what I think about it, Auburn fans still come up to me and tell me it was the best call they've ever heard. And that's what matters.\"\n\nUnder new head coach Terry Bowden, Auburn had reached the season ending game with Alabama undefeated at 10-0. The Crimson Tide was 8-1-1 and were the defending National Champions. Normally, a game of this magnitude would've been played before a national television audience. But Auburn was under NCAA sanctions and were not allowed to appear on television during 1993. This was Alabama's second trip to Jordan–Hare Stadium and, due to the magnitude of the game, the two schools set up a closed-circuit television feed to Bryant–Denny Stadium in Tuscaloosa. Fyffe set the scene this way as he opened the broadcast of the game on the Auburn Network:\n\nAuburn trailed 14-5 at halftime having mustered only a field goal and a sack of Alabama quarterback Jay Barker for a safety. Midway through the third quarter, the Auburn offense began its best drive of the game, moving from its own 30 yard-line to the Alabama 31. But three plays later, senior quarterback Stan White was knocked out of the game with a knee injury. Rather than punt or attempt a long field goal, Bowden elected to send backup quarterback Patrick Nix into the game with a fourth down play:\n\nFyffe's voice was noticeably hoarse during the call and, in his autobiography, Fyffe stated that his voice was noticeably weak at the start of the game, a game he considered one of the biggest of his career due to the magnitude of the game, and the fact the game wasn't on television. He continued, however, and watched as Auburn took the lead on a Scott Etheridge field goal, and, with 2:32 left in the game, Fyffe made his second memorable call as James Bostic sealed the victory:\n\nThe Tigers won 22-14 and finished 11-0 for the first time in the school's history.\n\nThough he was most known for his memorable football calls, Fyffe grew up loving college basketball. In his autobiography, Fyffe mentioned the legendary Kentucky announcer Cawood Ledford as one of his favorites.\n\nFyffe's basketball calls are most likely less memorable due to Auburn's struggles in basketball during most of his career. That was not the case during the 1998–99 season as the Tigers dominated the SEC en route to a #1 seed in the NCAA tournament. On February 10, 1999, Auburn hosted Ole Miss before a sellout crowd at Beard-Eaves Memorial Coliseum and a national television audience on ESPN. Fyffe called the game on the Auburn Network along with color analyst Joe Dean, Jr. Auburn started fast and led 18-4 when a missed basket by the Rebels led to an Auburn fast break. The result of the play provides an example of Fyffe's slam dunk call:\n\nThe Tigers would win the game 95-66.\n\n"}
{"id": "27912738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27912738", "title": "John Holdren", "text": "John Holdren\n\nJohn Paul Holdren (Sewickley, Pennsylvania, March 1, 1944) is an American scientist who served as the senior advisor to President Barack Obama on science and technology issues through his roles as Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Co-Chair of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST).\n\nHoldren was previously the Teresa and John Heinz Professor of Environmental Policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, director of the Science, Technology, and Public Policy Program at the School's Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, and Director of the Woods Hole Research Center.\n\nHoldren was born in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, and grew up in San Mateo, California. He trained in aeronautics, astronautics and plasma physics and earned a bachelor's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1965 and a Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1970 supervised by Oscar Buneman.\n\nHoldren taught at Harvard for 13 years and at the University of California, Berkeley for more than two decades. His work has focused on the causes and consequences of global environmental change, population control, energy technologies and policies, ways to reduce the dangers from nuclear weapons and materials, and science and technology policy. He has also taken measures to contextualize the United State's current energy challenge, noting the role that nuclear energy could play.\nHoldren was involved in the famous Simon–Ehrlich wager in 1980. He, along with two other scientists helped Paul R. Ehrlich establish the bet with Julian Simon, in which they bet that the price of five key metals would be higher in 1990. The bet was centered around a disagreement concerning the future scarcity of resources in an increasingly polluted and heavily populated world. Ehrlich and Holdren lost the bet, when the price of metals had decreased by 1990.\n\nHoldren was chair of the Executive Committee of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs from 1987 until 1997 and delivered the Nobel Peace Prize acceptance lecture on behalf of Pugwash Conferences in December 1995. From 1993 until 2003, he was chair of the Committee on International Security and Arms Control of the National Academy of Sciences, and Co-Chairman of the bipartisan National Committee on Energy Policy from 2002 until 2007. Holdren was elected President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) (2006–2007), and served as board Chairman (2007–2008). He was the founding chair of the advisory board for \"Innovations\", a quarterly journal about entrepreneurial solutions to global challenges published by MIT Press, and has written and lectured extensively on the topic of global warming.\n\nHoldren served as one of President Bill Clinton's science advisors (PCAST) from 1994 to 2001. Eight years later, President Barack Obama nominated Holdren for the position of science advisor and Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy in December 2008, and he was confirmed on March 19, 2009, by a unanimous vote in the Senate. He testified to the nomination committee that he does not believe that government should have a role in determining optimal population size and that he never endorsed forced sterilization.\n\nOverpopulation was an early concern and interest. In a 1969 article, Holdren and co-author Paul R. Ehrlich argued, \"if the population control measures are not initiated immediately, and effectively, all the technology man can bring to bear will not fend off the misery to come.\" In 1973, Holdren encouraged a decline in fertility to well below replacement in the United States, because \"210 million now is too many and 280 million in 2040 is likely to be much too many.\" In 1977, Paul R. Ehrlich, Anne H. Ehrlich, and Holdren co-authored the textbook \"\".\nOther early publications include \"Energy\" (1971), \"Human Ecology\" (1973), \"Energy in Transition\" (1980), \"Earth and the Human Future\" (1986), \"Strategic Defenses and the Future of the Arms Race\" (1987), \"Building Global Security Through Cooperation (1990)\", and \"Conversion of Military R&D\" (1998).\n\nHoldren also authored over 200 articles and papers and has co-authored and co-edited some 20 books and book-length reports including:\n\nHoldren lives in Falmouth, Massachusetts, with his wife, biologist Cheryl E. Holdren (formerly Cheryl Lea Edgar), with whom he has two children and five grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1099383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099383", "title": "Joseph Bramah", "text": "Joseph Bramah\n\nJoseph Bramah (13 April 1748 – 9 December 1814), born Stainborough Lane Farm, Stainborough, Barnsley Yorkshire, was an English inventor and locksmith. He is best known for having invented the hydraulic press. Along with William George Armstrong, he can be considered one of the two fathers of hydraulic engineering.\n\nHe was the second son in the family of Joseph Bramma (note the different spelling of the surname), a farmer, and his wife, Mary Denton. He was educated at the local school in Silkstone and on leaving school he was apprenticed to a local carpenter. On completing his apprenticeship he moved to London, where he started work as a cabinet-maker. In 1783 he married Mary Lawton of Mapplewell, near Barnsley, and the couple set up home in London. They subsequently had a daughter and four sons. The couple lived first at 124 Piccadilly, but later moved to Eaton Street, Pimlico.\n\nIn London, Bramah worked for a Mr Allen, installing water closets (toilets) which were designed to a patent obtained by Alexander Cumming in 1775. He found that the current model being installed in London houses had a tendency to freeze in cold weather. Although it was Allen who improved the design by replacing the usual slide valve with a hinged flap that sealed the bottom of the bowl, \nBramah obtained the patent for it in 1778, and began making toilets at a workshop in Denmark Street, St Giles. The design was a success and production continued well into the 19th century.\n\nHis original water closets are still working in Osborne House, Queen Victoria's home on the Isle of Wight.\n\nAfter attending some lectures on technical aspects of locks, Bramah designed a lock of his own, receiving a patent for it in 1784. In the same year he started the Bramah Locks company at 124 Piccadilly, which is today based in Fitzrovia, London and Romford, Essex.\n\nThe locks produced by his company were famed for their resistance to lock picking and tampering, and the company famously had a \"Challenge Lock\" displayed in the window of their London shop from 1790 mounted on a board containing the inscription:\n\n\"The artist who can make an instrument that will pick or open this lock shall receive 200 guineas the moment it is produced.\"\n\nThe challenge stood for over 67 years until, at the Great Exhibition of 1851, the American locksmith Alfred Charles Hobbs was able to open the lock and, following some argument about the circumstances under which he had opened it, was awarded the prize. Hobbs' attempt required some 51 hours, spread over 16 days.\n\nThe Challenge Lock is in the Science Museum in London. An examination of the lock shows that it has been rebuilt since Hobbs picked it. Originally it had 18 iron slides and 1 central spring; it now has 13 steel slides, each with its own spring.\n\nBramah received a second patent for a lock design in 1798.\n\nPartly due to the precision requirements of his locks, Bramah spent much time developing machine tools to assist manufacturing processes. He relied heavily on the expertise of Henry Maudslay whom he employed in his workshop from the age of 18. Between them they created a number of innovative machines that made the production of Bramah's locks more efficient, and were applicable to other fields of manufacture.\n\nJust before Bramah died, his workshops also employed Joseph Clement who among other things made several contributions in the field of lathe design.\n\nBramah's most important invention was the hydraulic press. The hydraulic press depends on Pascal's principle, that pressure throughout a closed system is constant. The press had two cylinders and pistons of different cross-sectional areas. If a force was exerted on the smaller piston, this would be translated into a larger force on the larger piston. The difference in the two forces would be proportional to the difference in area of the two pistons. In effect the cylinders act in a similar way that a lever is used to increase the force exerted. Bramah was granted a patent for his hydraulic press in 1795.\n\nBramah's hydraulic press had many industrial applications and still does today. At the time Bramah was bringing his concepts to fruition, the field of hydraulic engineering was an almost unknown science. Bramah and William George Armstrong were the two pioneers in the field.\n\nThe hydraulic press is still known as the Bramah Press after its inventor.\n\nBramah was a very prolific inventor, though not all of his inventions were as important as his hydraulic press. They included: a beer engine (1797), a planing machine (1802), a paper-making machine (1805), a machine for automatically printing bank notes with sequential serial numbers (1806), and a fountain pen (1809). He also patented the first extrusion process for making lead pipes and also machinery for making gun stocks (Patent No. 2652).\nHis greatest contribution to engineering was his insistence on quality control. He realised that for engines to succeed, they would have to be machined to a much better standard than was the practice. He taught Arthur Woolf to machine engines to a close tolerance. This enabled Cornish engines to run with high-pressure steam, vastly increasing their output. Woolf became the leading Cornish steam engineer and his designs were adopted by all the engine designers of the day. The 15-HP engines of Watt and others of circa 1800 gave way to 450-HP engines by 1835. Bramah can be viewed as a founding father in industrial quality control.\n\nOne of Bramah's last inventions was a hydrostatic press capable of uprooting trees. This was put to work at Holt Forest in Hampshire. While superintending this work Bramah caught a cold, which developed into pneumonia. He died at Holt Forest on 9 December 1814. He was buried in the churchyard of St Mary's, Paddington.\n\nIn 2006 a pub in Barnsley town centre was opened named the Joseph Bramah in his memory.\n\nBramah was a prolific inventor, and obtained 18 patents for his designs between 1778 and 1812.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7467020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7467020", "title": "Keypad polling", "text": "Keypad polling\n\nKeypad Polling is a wireless polling technology. It can be used to enable community participation in events and to bring a focus to discussion and decision making.\n\nOne example of this technology comprises a number of hand held keypads (similar to TV remote controls) which communicate using radio frequencies with a base station. This base station is connected to a laptop computer which in turn is linked to a VGA projector that displays onto a projection screen. Participants vote anonymously by selecting the number on their keypad that best represents their preference. The result of the group vote is displayed on the projection screen within seconds. The project team also works with clients to prepare suitable questionnaires and produce report documents that analyse voting results.\n"}
{"id": "48640255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48640255", "title": "Lampucchwa Tharu", "text": "Lampucchwa Tharu\n\nLampucchwa Tharu or Morangiya Tharu is one of the endogamous subgroup of Tharu people which are an ethnic group indigenous to the Terai, the southern foothills of the Himalayas in Nepal and India. Likewise Morangiya Tharu dwells in the Eastern plain or Terai of Nepal. They can be found mainly in Morang and Sunsari districts. Though found in two districts, they are called by Morangiya Tharu as those two districts were one district before 1962. Basically, these people would call themselves Morangiya Tharu. But as the women has got tail like structure on their dress, people from other region would love to call them Lampucchwa.\n\nMorang and Sunsari\n\nThey plant rice, mustard, corn and lentils, but also collect forest products such as wild fruits, vegetables, medicinal plants and materials to build their houses; hunt deer, rabbit and wild boar, and go fishing in the rivers and oxbow lakes.\nThey keep domestics animals like Cow, Goat, Pig, Buffalo and birds like Pigeon, Chicken, Duck. They live close to nature. \nA group of Tharu people who do not eat Pig are said Thokra and they have belief if they consume such meat their kul devi becomes angry as can cause different disease to their family. But other do not have such practices.\n\nAchra Khadki, a traditional attire is worn by women. Khadki is hand wooven piece of cloth which is only made by Dhimal community and Achra is fine cotton or any other special fabric which has got beautiful hand made paintings. Generally it is white in colour but women would love to wear different color for different occasion. Their Achra has got a tail like structure whom they call as Puccha.\n\nTharu language which differ from other Tharu sub-groups.\n\nThe spiritual beliefs and moral values of the Tharu people are closely linked to the natural environment. The pantheon of their gods comprises a large number of deities that live in the forest. They are asked for support before entering the forest.\nThey can also be found following Hinduism and Christianity nowadays. Whereas some still have traditional beliefs on kul deuta.\n\nThey practice arranged as well as love marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "41268254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41268254", "title": "Mbanderu people", "text": "Mbanderu people\n\nThe Mbanderu (\"Ovambanderu\") are a population inhabiting eastern parts of Namibia and western parts of Botswana. They speak Herero (\"Otjiherero\"), a Bantu language.\n\nWhile earlier theories of the meaning of the word \"mbanderu\" stated \"People of the reed\" (\"mbandu\": people and \"oruu\": reed), the explanation common today is that \"mbanderu\" literally means 'fighters of old'.\n\nResults from investigations about similarities in their music point to East Africa as the origin of the all Bantu tribes that today inhabit Namibia. The Ovambo people left this area first and settled in the north of today's Namibia, the Herero people left after that, and the Ovambanderu migrated last. In the 19th century the Ovambanderu had reached Angola and moved from there into Kaokoland and Ovamboland but got into fights with already resident Herero tribes and subsequently settled in the eastern part of South-West Africa. After reaching the area around Okakarara the Ovambanderu spread out to find suitable pasture for their cattle.\n\nAround 1904, after a devastating clash with German colonial forces in Namibia, many of the Mbanderu people settled along the Boteti River around Tsienyane. The area was already settled by other peoples; thus they requested to be allocated their own land where they could practice their own culture without any hindrance. \n\nTwo important cultural notions among all Herero-speaking groups are \"ejanda\" and \"oruzo.\" These are generally synonymous with matrilineage and patrilineage, respectively. The recognition of lineal ancestry through both mothers and through fathers is generally known as double descent. \"\"Ejanda\" identity is important in determining who one should marry; two people in exactly the same 'ejanda' should not marry each other. In the past, marriage partners may have been determined at the birth of a girl by her parents. In many cases, the groom was much older than the girl.\"Oruzo\"\" is associated with traditional religious practice and with political leadership. It is symbolized in part by prohibitions about raising and eating particular kinds of animals.\n\nCattle are central in the economic and spiritual life of Ovambanderu. Not only are cattle a central source of meat, sour milk \"omaere\", and fat (\"ongondivi\"), they have also played a symbolic role in the relation of people to their ancestors. In the past, the male head of a residential group conducted rituals at the holy fire ('okuruwo'), for instance, tasting the milk, on behalf of those residing there. Choosing a cow to be used during these rituals was at the discretion of the owner of the cattle. The milk from this cow used could not be drunk by uncircumcised Mbanderu or outsiders. \n\nUsing dogs and traps are the traditional methods of hunting.Since the 19th century, horses and guns have also been used.\n\nMbanderu people are active in annual remembrance ceremonies held in Namibia and Botswana at the graves of important cultural leaders. They are particularly associated with the \"Green Flag\" (\"Otjingirine\").\n\nNotable people of Mbanderu descent are:\n"}
{"id": "15242552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15242552", "title": "Mizuko kuyō", "text": "Mizuko kuyō\n\n, literally \"water child\", is a Japanese term for a stillborn baby or, archaically, a dead baby or infant, while \"kuyō\" refers to a memorial service. Previously read \"suiji\", the Sino-Japanese \"on'yomi\" reading of the same characters, the term was originally a \"kaimyō\" (posthumous name) given after death. The \"mizuko kuyō,\" typically performed by Buddhist priests, was used to make offerings to Jizō, a bodhisattva who is believed to protect children. In the Edo period, when famine sometimes led the poverty-stricken to infanticide and abortion, the practice was adapted to cover these situations as well.\n\nToday, the practice of \"mizuko kuyō\" continues in Japan, although it is unclear whether it is a historically authentic Buddhist practice. Specifics of the ceremony vary from temple to temple, school to school, and individual to individual. It is common for temples to offer Jizō statues for a fee, which are then dressed in red bibs and caps, and displayed in the temple yard. Though the practice has been performed since the 1970s, there are still doubts surrounding the ritual.  Some view the memorial service as the temples' way of benefiting from the misfortune of women who have miscarried or had to abort a pregnancy. American religious scholars have criticized the temples for allegedly abusing the Japanese belief that the spirits of the dead retaliate for their mistreatment, but other scholars believe the temples are only answering the needs of the people.\n\nThe ceremony is attended by both parents or by one, not necessarily the mother. The service can vary from a single event to one that repeats monthly or annually. Though the service varies, common aspects resemble the ceremony for the recent dead, the \"senzo kuyō\". The priest faces the altar and evokes the names of various Buddhas and boddhisattvas. Mantras, often the \"Heart Sutra\" and \"Kannon Sutra\", are performed, as are calls of praise to Jizō. Gifts are offered to the Buddha on behalf of the mourned, typically food, drink, incense or flowers. A \"kaimyō\" is given to the deceased, and a statue of Jizō is often placed on temple grounds upon completion.\n\nA similar practice is found in contemporary Taiwan, where it is known as \"yingling gongyang.\" The modern Taiwanese practice emerged in the mid-1970s and grew significantly in popularity in the 1980s; it draws both from traditional antecedents dating back to the Han dynasty, and the Japanese practice, and is popularly perceived as a practice imported from Japan. These modern practices emerged in the context of demographic change associated with modernization – rising population, urbanization, and decreasing family size – together with changing attitudes towards sexuality, which occurred first in Japan, and then in Taiwan, hence the similar response and Taiwan's taking inspiration from Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27747090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27747090", "title": "Modelur", "text": "Modelur\n\nModelur is a 3D parametric urban design software, implemented as a SketchUp plugin.\n\nIn contrast to common CAD applications, where the user designs buildings with usual dimensions such as width, depth and height, Modelur offers design of built environment through key urban parameters such as number of storeys and gross floor area of a building. In addition, urban control values (i.e. Floor Space Index, Built-up Area, etc. ) and requirements (i.e. number of parking lots or green areas) based on land use normatives are calculated in real-time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18775423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18775423", "title": "National Cleavage Day", "text": "National Cleavage Day\n\nNational Cleavage Day (abbreviated NCD) is an annual celebration held in either March or April in South Africa, sponsored by the brassiere marketer Wonderbra. National Cleavage Day was started in 2002 and held at the beginning of April every year. Wonderbra together with \"Cosmopolitan\" magazine and 5fm, a SABC radio station mainly based in Johannesburg, sponsor the observation.\n\nAnita Meiring, public relations consultant for Wonderbra, described the event: \"It is a day for women to realise that their cleavage is something unique and that they should be proud of it.\" \"It gives women a chance to be beautiful and glow in the furtive, yet appreciative, glances their cleavage evokes from men\". She also explained, \"It gives men a legitimate reason to stare at boobs.\"\n\nSamantha Paterson, a brand manager for Wonderbra, said that National Cleavage Day was started as a way to solemnise women's independence and power in all facets of life, from their careers to their relationships to their own destiny. Paterson said the day is intended to be lighthearted amusement and that the revenue will be donated to the Sunflower Fund. The fund is a non-governmental and non-profit organisation based in Cape Town with a stated aim to help South African citizens diagnosed with leukaemia and other life-threatening blood diseases.\n\nNational Cleavage Day is celebrated at office premises, restaurants and bars throughout the nation. Most people polled on the streets during the celebrations in 2002 expressed positive view on this event. During the occasion of the National Cleavage Day in 2002, twenty local girls in Johannesburg and another twenty girls in Cape Town were called in for the purpose of distributing stickers and G-strings to selected female drivers. The celebration of the NCD in 2006 started early in the morning of 7 April when women showing their cleavages in Edgars, Foschini Group and Truworths at La Lucia Mall, Gateway Shopping Centre and the Pavilion handed out \"Cosmopolitan\" magazines free of cost to customers. A competition was organised at the Cafe Vacca Matta called the \"Best Cleavage.\" Thousands of women in the province of KwaZulu-Natal displayed their cleavages in support of this event. Local manufacturers and retailers of undergarments have joined in support of the celebration of the NCD and it marks some new industry shifts.\n\nAfter the celebration in 2007, Paterson said, \"We will be donating money for every bra that gets sold in March. We will donate money to the Sunflower fund. We are having big parties, we have special National Cleavage Day cocktails that have been created and for every cocktail bought R2 will be donated to the sunflower fund.\"\n\nIn April 2009, references to National Cleavage Day were so popular on Twitter that the term \"National Cleavage\" was briefly number one on the website's top ten trend list.\n\nInternational Cleavage Day is celebrated worldwide yearly on March 31 on social media outlets such as Twitter, Facebook and Tumblr.\n\nDr. Siqwana-Ndulo, provincial gender commissioner in Eastern Cape, condemned the celebrations, warning women not to be involved in the National Cleavage Day. Siqwana-Ndulo said \"This is a pure marketing tool using people's bodies.\" She added, \"The commission is against any person or advertising company, which uses people's bodies for marketing purposes be it advertising a car or anything of that sort.\"\n\nA paper published by the Gender Links depicted an image of two women showing their cleavages during the occasion of the NCD on 5 April 2003, with a caption \"These two bosom buddies were all part of the fun in yesterday’s National Cleavage Day, where a number of stunning beauties, their natural assets enhanced by Wonderbra, brought traffic to a standstill in many parts of Joburg.\" The paper argued globalisation of the media enforces \"globalised norms\" of gender and lowest single common denominator in \"global\" images of gender is \"sex sells\" which builds and reinforces stereotypes and bias—both male and female. Vanessa Raphaely, editor of the \"Cosmopolitan\", argued the NCD is not intended to objectify women, but to celebrate in a funny manner.\n\n"}
{"id": "24114984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24114984", "title": "Omar Treviño Morales", "text": "Omar Treviño Morales\n\nÓscar Omar Treviño Morales (born January 26, 1974) is a convicted Mexican drug lord and former leader of Los Zetas, a criminal organization. He was one of Mexico's most-wanted drug lords. His brother is Miguel Treviño Morales, a former leader of the group. The authorities believe he was the successor of his brother, who was arrested on July 15, 2013.\n\nMorales is allegedly responsible for several abductions and murders committed in Nuevo Laredo between 2005 and 2006 and the supply source for multi-kilogram loads of cocaine smuggled from Mexico to the United States.\n\nHe was charged in a 2008 federal indictment in the U.S. District of Columbia, and the U.S. Department of State is currently offering a reward of up to $5 million USD for information leading to his arrest and/or conviction. On 24 March 2010, the United States Department of the Treasury sanctioned him under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (sometimes referred to simply as the \"Kingpin Act\"), for his involvement in drug trafficking along with fifty-three other international criminals and ten foreign entities. The act prohibited U.S. citizens and companies from doing any kind of business activity with him, and virtually froze all his assets in the U.S.\n\nAt around 4:00 a.m. on March 4, 2015, Treviño Morales was captured inside a residence in Fuentes del Valle, an upper-class neighborhood in San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, by the Federal Police and the Mexican Army. Not a single shot was fired in the operation. In a nearby neighborhood, authorities arrested his financial operator Carlos Arturo Jiménez Encinas, along with four other people. Four days later he was transferred to the Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 1, a maximum-security prison in Almoloya de Juárez, State of Mexico. He was formally charged in a federal court in Toluca, State of Mexico on March 13 for money laundering and for violating Mexico's Federal Law of Firearms and Explosives.\n\nOn 23 March 2015, Ramiro Pérez Moreno (alias \"El Rana\" or \"The Frog\"), a potential successor of \"Z-42\", was captured along with 4 other men. He was arrested in possession of 6 kilos of cocaine and marijuana, rifles and one hand grenade.\n\n"}
{"id": "31839311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31839311", "title": "Palestinian Australians", "text": "Palestinian Australians\n\nPalestinian Australians () are Australian citizens of Palestinian origin or Palestinian immigrants who live in Australia. There are an estimated 7,000 Palestinians in Australia.\n\nLike much of the Palestinian diaspora worldwide, many Palestinian migrants came from displaced backgrounds as part of a massive exodus of refugees and as a result of decades of war. The majority of Palestinians arrived to Australia holding passports of other Arab countries in which they had initially settled following their emigration from Palestine; it was not uncommon for different families to hold passports of different countries. \n\nThe 1967 Israeli-Arab war led many Palestinians to seek migration beyond the Arab world, propelled by experiences of conflict in the Middle East as well as discrimination and economic hardship as a stateless people. Migration waves continued to surge following the Lebanese Civil War starting in 1975 and the 1982 Lebanon War. The latest major wave came in the aftermath of the 1991 Gulf War.\n\nMost Palestinians speak the Arabic language and are counted as Arab Australians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51032591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51032591", "title": "Philippine Drug War", "text": "Philippine Drug War\n\nThe \"Philippine Drug War\", or \"War on Drugs\", refers to the drug policy of the Philippine government under President Rodrigo Duterte, who assumed office on June 30, 2016. According to Philippine National Police Chief Ronald dela Rosa, the policy is aimed at \"the neutralization [ie., killing] of illegal drug personalities nationwide\". Duterte has urged members of the public to kill suspected criminals and drug addicts. Research by media organizations and human rights groups has shown that police routinely execute unarmed drug suspects and then plant guns and drugs as evidence. Philippine authorities have denied misconduct by police.\n\nThe policy has been widely condemned locally and internationally for the number of deaths resulting from police operations and allegations of systematic extrajudicial executions. The policy is supported by the majority of the local population, as well as by leaders or representatives of certain countries such as China, Japan and the United States.\n\nEstimates of the death toll vary. News organizations and human rights groups have put the figure at over 12,000. The victims included 54 children in the first year. The government claimed 4,200 have been killed as of April 30, 2018. Opposition senators claimed in 2018 that over 20,000 have been killed.\n\nIn February 2018, the International Criminal Court in The Hague announced a \"preliminary examination\" into killings linked to the Philippine Drug War since at least July 1, 2016.\n\nRodrigo Duterte won the 2016 Philippine presidential election promising to kill tens of thousands of criminals, and urging people to kill drug addicts. As Mayor of Davao City, Duterte was criticized by groups like Human Rights Watch for the extrajudicial killings of hundreds of street children, petty criminals and drug users carried out by the Davao Death Squad, a vigilante group with which he was allegedly involved. Duterte has alternately confirmed and denied his involvement in the alleged Davao Death Squad killings. Duterte has benefited from reports in the national media that he made Davao into one of the world's safest cities, which he cites as justification for his drug policy, although national police data shows that the city has the highest murder rate and the second highest rape rate in the Philippines.\n\nPhilippine anti-narcotic officials have admitted that Duterte uses flawed and exaggerated data to support his claim that the Philippines is becoming a \"narco-state\". The Philippines has a low prevalence rate of drug users compared to the global average, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). Duterte said in his state of the nation address that data from the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency shows that there were 3 million drug addicts 2 to 3 years ago, which he said may have increased to 3.7 million. However, according to the Philippine Dangerous Drugs Board, the government drug policy-making body, 1.8 million Filipinos used illegal drugs (mostly cannabis) in 2015, the latest official survey published; a third of them had used illegal drugs only once in the past 13 months.\n\nIn speeches made after his inauguration on June 30, Duterte urged citizens to kill suspected criminals and drug addicts. He said he would order police to adopt a shoot-to-kill policy, and would offer them a bounty for dead suspects. In a speech to military leadership on July 1, Duterte told Communist rebels to \"use your kangaroo courts to kill them to speed up the solution to our problem\". On July 2, the Communist Party of the Philippines stated that it \"reiterates its standing order for the NPA to carry out operations to disarm and arrest the chieftains of the biggest drug syndicates, as well as other criminal syndicates involved in human rights violations and destruction of the environment\" after its political wing Bagong Alyansang Makabayan accepted Cabinet posts in the new government. On July 3, the Philippine National Police announced they had killed 30 alleged drug dealers since Duterte was sworn in as president on June 30. They later stated they had killed 103 suspects between May 10 and July 7. On July 9, a spokesperson of the president told critics to show proof that there have been human rights violations in the Drug War. Later that day, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front announced it was open to collaborate with police in the Drug War. On August 3, Duterte said that the Sinaloa cartel and the Chinese triad are involved in the Philippine drug trade. On August 7, Duterte named more than 150 drug suspects including local politicians, police, judges, and military. On August 8, the United States expressed concerns over the extrajudicial killings.\n\nA presidential spokesperson said that Duterte welcomed a proposed Congressional investigation into extrajudicial killings to be chaired by Senator Leila de Lima, his chief critic in the government. On August 17, Duterte announced that de Lima had been having an affair with a married man, her driver, Ronnie Palisoc Dayan. Duterte claimed that Dayan was her collector for drug money, who had also himself been using drugs.\nIn a news conference on August 21, Duterte announced that he had in his possession wiretaps and ATM records which confirmed his allegations. He stated: \"What is really crucial here is that because of her [romantic] relationship with her driver which I termed 'immoral' because the driver has a family and wife, that connection gave rise to the corruption of what was happening inside the national penitentiary.\" Dismissing fears for Dayan's safety, he added, \"As the President, I got this information … as a privilege. But I am not required to prove it in court. That is somebody else's business. My job is to protect public interest. She's lying through her teeth.\" He explained that he had acquired the new evidence from an unnamed foreign country.\n\nOn August 18, United Nations human rights experts called on the Philippines to halt extrajudicial killings. Agnes Callamard, the UN Special Rapporteur on summary executions, stated that Duterte had given a \"license to kill\" to his citizens by encouraging them to kill. In response, Duterte threatened to withdraw from the UN and form a separate group with African nations and China. Presidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella later clarified that the Philippines was not leaving the UN. As the official death toll reached 1,800, a Congressional investigation of the killings chaired by de Lima was opened.\n\nOn August 23, Chito Gascon, head of the Philippine Commission on Human Rights, told the Senate committee that the International Criminal Court may have jurisdiction over the mass killings. On August 25, Duterte released a \"drug matrix\" supposedly linking government officials, including de Lima, with the New Bilibid Prison drug trafficking scandal. De Lima stated that the \"drug matrix\" was like something drawn by a 12-year-old child. She added, \"I will not dignify any further this so-called 'drug matrix' which, any ordinary lawyer knows too well, properly belongs in the garbage can.\" On August 29, Duterte called on de Lima to resign and \"hang herself\".\n\nFollowing the September 2 bombing in Davao City that killed 14 people in the city's central business district, on September 3, 2016, Duterte declared a \"state of lawlessness\", and on the following day signed a declaration of a \"state of national emergency on account of lawless violence in Mindanao\". The Armed Forces of the Philippines and the Philippine National Police were ordered to \"suppress all forms of lawless violence in Mindanao\" and to \"prevent lawless violence from spreading and escalating elsewhere\". Executive Secretary Salvador Medialdea said that the declaration \"does not specify the imposition of curfews\", and would remain in force indefinitely. He explained: \"The recent incidents, the escape of terrorists from prisons, the beheadings, then eventually what happened in Davao. That was the basis.\" The state of emergency has been seen as an attempt by Duterte to \"enhance his already strong hold on power, and give him carte blanche to impose further measures\" in the Drug War.\n\nAt the 2016 ASEAN Summit, US President Barack Obama cancelled scheduled meetings with Duterte to discuss extrajudicial killings after Duterte referred to Obama as a \"son of a whore\".\n\nOn September 19, 2016, the Senate voted 16-4 to remove de Lima from her position heading the Senate committee, in a motion brought by senator and boxer Manny Pacquiao. Duterte's allies in the Senate argued that de Lima had damaged the country's reputation by allowing the testimony of Edgar Matobato. She was replaced by Senator Richard Gordon, a supporter of Duterte. Matobato had testified that while working for the Davao Death Squad he had killed more than 50 people. He said that he had witnessed Duterte killing a government agent, and he had heard Duterte giving orders to carry out executions, including ordering the bombing of mosques as retaliation for an attack on a cathedral.\n\nDuterte told reporters that he wanted \"a little extension of maybe another six months\" in the Drug War, as there were so many drug offenders and criminals that he \"cannot kill them all\". On the following day, a convicted bank robber and two former prison officials testified that they had paid bribes to de Lima. She denies the allegations. In a speech on September 20, Duterte promised to protect police in the Drug War: \n\nAt a press conference on September 30, Duterte appeared to make a comparison between the Drug War and The Holocaust. He said that \"Hitler massacred three million Jews. Now there are three million drug addicts. I’d be happy to slaughter them.\" His remarks generated an international outcry. United States Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said the statement was \"deeply troubling\". The German government told the Philippine ambassador that Duterte's remarks were \"unacceptable.\" On October 2, Duterte announced, \"I apologize profoundly and deeply to the Jewish\". He explained, \"It's not really that I said something wrong but rather they don't really want you to tinker with the memory\".\n\nAt the beginning of October, a senior police officer told \"The Guardian\" that 10 \"special ops\" official police death squads had been operating, each consisting of 15 police officers. The officer said that he had personally been involved in killing 87 suspects, and described how the corpses had their heads wrapped in masking tape with a cardboard placard labelling them as a drug offender so that the killing would not be investigated, or they were dumped at the roadside (\"salvage\" victims). The chairman of the Philippines Commission on Human Rights, Chito Gascon, was quoted in the report: \"I am not surprised, I have heard of this.\" The PNP declined to comment. The report stated: \"although the \"Guardian\" can verify the policeman's rank and his service history, there is no independent, official confirmation for the allegations of state complicity and police coordination in mass murder.\"\n\nOn October 28, Datu Saudi Ampatuan Mayor Samsudin Dimaukom and nine others, including his five bodyguards, were killed during an anti-illegal drug operation in Makilala, North Cotabato. According to police, the group were heavily armed and opened fire on police, who found sachets of methamphetamine at the scene. No police were injured. Dimaukom was among the drug list named by Duterte on August 7; he had immediately surrendered, and then returned to Datu Saudi Ampatuan.\n\nOn November 1, it was reported that the US State Department had halted the sale of 26,000 assault rifles to the PNP after opposition from the Senate Foreign Relations Committee due to concerns about human rights violations. A police spokesman said they had not been informed. PNP chief Ronald dela Rosa suggested China as a possible alternative supplier. On November 7, Duterte reacted to the US decision to halt the sale by announcing that he was \"ordering its cancellation\".\n\nIn the early morning of November 5, Mayor of Albuera, Rolando Espinosa Sr., who had been detained at Baybay City Sub-Provincial Jail for violation of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002, was killed in what was described as a shootout inside his jail cell with personnel from the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (CIDG). According to the CIDG, Espinosa opened fire on police agents who were executing a search warrant for \"illegal firearms.\" A hard drive of CCTV footage which may have recorded the shooting of Espinosa is missing, a provincial official said. Espinosa had turned himself in to PNP after being named in Duterte's drug list in August. He was briefly released but then re-arrested for alleged drug possession. The president of the National Union of People's Lawyers, Edre Olalia, told local broadcaster TV5 that the police version of events was \"too contrived\". He pointed out that a search warrant is not required to search a jail cell. \"Such acts make a mockery of the law, taunt impunity and insult ordinary common sense.\" Espinosa was the second public official to be killed in the Drug War.\n\nFollowing the incident, on the same day, Senator Panfilo Lacson sought to resume the investigation of extrajudicial killings after it was suspended on October 3 by the Senate Committee on Justice and Human Rights.\n\nOn November 28, Duterte appeared to threaten that human rights workers would be targeted: \"The human rights [defenders] say I kill. If I say: 'Okay, I'll stop'. They [drug users] will multiply. When harvest time comes, there will be more of them who will die. Then I will include you among them because you let them multiply.\" Amnesty International Philippines stated that Duterte was \"inciting hate towards anyone who expresses dissent on his war against drugs.\" The National Alliance against Killings Philippines stated: \"His comment - that human rights is part of the drug problem and, as such, human rights advocates should be targeted too - can be interpreted as a declaration of an open season on human rights defenders\".\n\nOn December 5 Reuters reported that 97% of drug suspects shot by police died, far more than in other countries with drug-related violence. They also stated that police reports of killings are \"remarkably similar\", involving a \"buy-bust\" operation in which the suspect panics and shoots at the officers, who return fire, killing the suspect, and report finding a packet of white powder and a .38 caliber revolver, often with the serial number removed. \n\nOn December 8, the Senate Committee on Justice and Human Rights issued a report stating that there was \"no evidence sufficient to prove that a Davao Death Squad exists\", and \"no proof that there is a state-sponsored policy to commit killings to eradicate illegal drugs in the country.\" Eleven senators signed the report, while senators Leila De Lima, JV Ejercito, Antonio Trillanes IV and Senate Minority Leader Ralph Recto did not sign the report or did not subscribe to its findings.\n\nFollowing criticism of the police over the kidnapping and killing of Jee Ick-Joo, a South Korean businessman, Duterte ordered the police to suspend drug-related operations while ordering the military and the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency to continue drug operations.\n\nOn January 31, 2017, Amnesty International published a report of their investigation of 59 drug-related killings in 20 cities and towns, \"\"If you are poor you are killed\": Extrajudicial Executions in the Philippines' \"War on Drugs\"\", which \"details how the police have systematically targeted mostly poor and defenceless people across the country while planting 'evidence', recruiting paid killers, stealing from the people they kill and fabricating official incident reports.\" They stated: \"Amnesty International is deeply concerned that the deliberate, widespread and systematic killings of alleged drug offenders, which appear to be planned and organized by the authorities, may constitute crimes against humanity under international law.\"\n\nA police officer with the rank of Senior Police Officer 1, a ten-year veteran of a Metro Manila anti-illegal drugs unit, told AI that police are paid 8,000 pesos (US $161) to 15,000 pesos (US $302) per \"encounter\" (the term used for extrajudicial executions disguised as legitimate operations); there is no payment for making arrests. He said that some police also receive a payment from the funeral home they send the corpses to. Hitmen hired by police are paid 5,000 pesos (US $100) for each drug user killed and 10,000 to 15,000 pesos (US $200–300) for each \"drug pusher\" killed, according to two hitmen interviewed by AI.\n\nThe report makes a series of recommendations to Duterte and government officials and departments. If certain key steps are not swiftly taken, it recommends that the International Criminal Court \"initiate a preliminary examination into unlawful killings in the Philippines’s violent anti-drug campaign and related crimes under the Rome Statute, including the involvement of government officials, irrespective of rank and status.\"\n\nThe Guardian and Reuters stated that the report added to evidence they had published previously about police extrajudicial executions. Presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella responded to the report, saying that Senate committee investigations proved that there had been no state-sponsored extrajudicial killings. In an interview on February 4, Duterte told a reporter that Amnesty International was \"so naive and so stupid\", and \"a creation of [George] Soros\". He asked, \"Is that the only thing you [de Lima] can produce? The report of Amnesty?\"\n\nDe Lima was jailed on February 24, awaiting trial on charges related to allegations made by Duterte in August 2016. A court date has not been set.\n\nOn February 20, Arturo Lascañas, a retired police officer, told reporters at a press conference outside the senate building that as a leader of the Davao Death Squad he had carried out extrajudicial killings on the orders of Duterte. He said death squad members were paid 20,000 to 100,000 pesos ($400 to $2,000) per hit, depending on the importance of the target. He gave details of various killings he had carried out on Duterte's orders, including the previously unsolved murder of a radio show host critical of Duterte, and confessed to his involvement with Matobato in the bombing of a mosque on Duterte's orders. On the following day the senate voted in a private session to reopen the investigation, reportedly by a margin of ten votes to eight, with five abstentions. \n\nOn March 6, Lascanas gave evidence at the Senate committee, testifying that he had killed approximately 200 criminal suspects, media figures and political opponents on Duterte's orders.\n\nIn June 2017 Reuters reported that \"Police were sending corpses to hospitals to destroy evidence at crime scenes and hide the fact that they were executing drug suspects.\" Doctors stated that corpses loaded onto trucks were being dumped at hospitals, sometimes after rigor mortis had already set in, with clearly unsurvivable wounds, having been shot in the chest and head at close range. Reuters examined data from two Manila police districts, and found that the proportion of suspects sent to hospitals, where they are pronounced dead on arrival (DOA), increased from 13% in July 2016 to 85% in January 2017; \"The totals grew along with international and domestic condemnation of Duterte's campaign.\"\n\nOn July 30, Reynaldo Parojinog, the mayor of Ozamiz City, was killed along with 14 others, including his wife Susan, in a dawn raid at around 2:30 am on his home in San Roque Lawis. According to police, they were on a search warrant when Parojinog's bodyguards opened fire on them and police officers responded by shooting at them. According to police provincial chief Jaysen De Guzman, authorities recovered grenades, ammunition and illegal drugs in the raid.\n\nOn August 16, over 32 people were killed in multiple \"one-time, big-time\" antidrug operations in Bulacan within one day. On Manila, 25 people, including 11 suspected robbers, were also killed in consecutive anti-criminality operations. The multiple deaths in the large-scale antidrug operations received condemnation from human rights groups and the majority of the Senate.\n\nOn August 17, Kian Loyd delos Santos, a 17-year-old Grade 11 student, was shot dead in an antidrug operation in Caloocan. CCTV footage appeared to show Kian being dragged by two policemen. Police say they killed him in self-defense, and retrieved a gun and two packets of methamphetamine. Delos Santos was the son of an overseas Filipino worker, a key demographic in support of Duterte. The teenager's death caused condemnation by senators. His funeral on August 25, attended by more than a thousand people, was one of the largest protests to date against the Drug War.\n\nCarl Angelo Arnaiz, a 19-year-old teenager, last found in Cainta, Rizal, was tortured and shot dead also on August 17 (the same date Kian delos Santos was killed) by police after robbing a taxi in Caloocan. His 14-year-old friend, Reynaldo de Guzman, also called under the nickname \"Kulot\", was stabbed to death thirty times and thrown into a creek in Gapan, Nueva Ecija. Along with the deaths of Kian delos Santos, the deaths of the two teenagers also triggered public outrage and condemnation.\n\nHuman Rights Watch repeated their call for a UN investigation. HRW Asia director Phelim Kine commented: \"The apparent willingness of Philippine police to deliberately target children for execution marks an appalling new level of depravity in this so-called drug war\". Duterte called the deaths of Arnaiz and de Guzman (the former being a relative of the President on his mother's side) a \"sabotage\", believing that some groups are using the Philippine National Police to destroy the president's public image. Presidential spokesman Abella said \"It should not come as a surprise that these malignant elements would conspire to sabotage the president’s campaign to rid the Philippines of illegal drugs and criminality\", which \"may include creating scenarios stoking public anger against the government\".\n\nOn August 23, 2016, a 5-year-old student named Danica May Garcia was killed by a stray bullet coming from the unidentified gunmen in Dagupan City, Pangasinan during an anti-drug operation. Another minor, 4-year old Skyler Abatayo of Cebu was killed through an 'anti-drug operation'. Duterte insisted that the child was killed by drug suspects, not by his police force. In the first year of the Drug War, 54 children were recorded as casualties.\n\nAs a result of involvement in the deaths of teenagers like Kian delos Santos, and Carl Angelo Arnaiz and Reynaldo de Guzman, and robbing of a drug suspect in an antidrug raid, National Capital Region Police Office (NCRPO) chief Oscar Albayalde ordered the firing and retraining of all members of the Caloocan City Police, with the exception of its newly appointed chief and its deputy.\n\nOn October 12, 2017, Duterte announced the transfer of anti-drug operations to the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA), ending the involvement of the Philippine National Police (PNP). The announcement followed the publication of an opinion poll on October 8, showing a drop in presidential approval from 66% to 48%. This is amidst the political storm and public outrage on the murders of minors by the Caloocan City police, and the various murder cases allegedly done by other law enforcement agents that surfaced in mainstream and social media. In a televised speech, Duterte scoffed and mocked the \"bleeding hearts\" who sympathized with those killed in the drug war, pointedly at the European Union, whom he accused of interfering with Philippine sovereignty.\n\nIn a speech before ASEAN representatives, Rodrigo Duterte refuted all extrajudicial killings related to the War on Drugs by stating that these stories only serve as a political agenda in order to demonize him. He stated that he has only used his mouth to tell drug users that they will be killed. He stated that \"...\"shabu\" (crystal meth) users have shrunken brains, which is why they have become violent and aggressive, leading to their deaths.\" Duterte further added that all the drug pushers and their henchmen always carry their guns with them and killing them is justifiable so that they would not endanger the lives of his men. Duterte appointed a human rights lawyer, Harry Roque, a Kabayan partylist representative, as his spokesperson. Roque stated that he will change public perception by reducing the impact of the statements by which Duterte advocates extra-judicial killings in his war on drugs.\n\nIn a speech on March 26, 2018, Duterte said that human rights groups \"have become unwitting tools of drug lords\". Human Rights Watch denied the allegation, calling it \"shockingly dangerous and shameful\".\n\nThe controversial Tanauan, Batangas mayor Antonio Halili was assassinated by an unknown sniper during a flag-raising ceremony on July 2, 2018, becoming the 11th local government official to be killed in the Drug War. On the following day, Ferdinand Bote, mayor of General Tinio, was shot dead in his vehicle in Cabanatuan City.\n\nThe International Criminal Court (ICC) chief prosecutor Fatou Bensouda expressed concern, over the drug-related killings in the country, on October 13, 2016. In her statement, Bensouda said that the high officials of the country \"seem to condone such killings and further seem to encourage State forces and civilians alike to continue targeting these individuals with lethal force.\" She also warns that any person in the country who provoke \"in acts of mass violence by ordering, requesting, encouraging or contributing, in any other manner, to the commission of crimes within the jurisdiction of ICC\" will be prosecuted before the court. About that, Duterte is open for the investigation by the ICC, Malacañang said.\n\nIn February 2018, the ICC announced a “preliminary examination” into killings linked to the Philippine government's “war on drugs”. Prosecutor Bensouda said the court will “analyze crimes allegedly committed in [the Philippines] since at least 1 July 2016.” Duterte's spokesman Harry Roque dismissed the ICC's decision as a “waste of the court’s time and resources”. In March, Duterte announced his intention to withdraw the Philippines from the ICC tribunal, which is a process that takes a year.\n\nIn August 2018, activists and eight families of victims of the Drug War filed a second petition with the ICC, accusing Duterte of murder and crimes against humanity, and calling for his indictment for thousands of extrajudicial killings, which according to the 50-page complaint included \"brazen\" executions by police acting with impunity. Neri Colmenares, a lawyer acting for the group, said that \"Duterte is personally liable for ordering state police to undertake mass killings\". Duterte threatened to arrest the ICC prosecutor Bensouda.\n\nSenator Risa Hontiveros, an opponent of Duterte, said that the Drug War was a political strategy intended to persuade people that \"suddenly the historically most important issue of poverty was no longer the most important.\" De Lima expressed frustration with the attitude of Filipinos towards extrajudicial killing: \"they think that it's good for peace and order. We now have death squads on a national scale, but I'm not seeing public outrage.\" According to a Pulse Asia opinion poll conducted from July 2 to 8, 2016, 91% of Filipinos \"trusted\" Duterte. A survey conducted between February and May 2017, by PEW research center, found that 78% of the Filipinos support the drug war. A survey in September 2017 showed 88% support for the Drug War, while 73% believed that extrajudicial executions were occurring.\n\nDela Rosa announced in September 2016 that the Drug War had \"reduced the supply of illegal drugs in the country by some 80 to 90 percent\", and said that the War was already being won, based on statistical and observational evidence.\n\"Aljazeera\" reported that John Collins, director of the London School of Economics International Drug Policy Project, said: \"Targeting the supply side can have short-term effects. However, these are usually limited to creating market chaos rather than reducing the size of the market. ... What you learn is that you're going to war with a force of economics and the force of economics tends to win out: supply, demand and price tend to find their own way.\" He said it was a \"certainty\" that \"the Philippines' new 'war' will fail and society will emerge worse off from it.\" In June 2017 the price of methamphetamine on the streets of Manila was lower than it had been at the start of Duterte's presidency, according to Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency data. Gloria Lai of the International Drug Policy Consortium commented: \"If prices have fallen, it's an indication that enforcement actions have not been effective\".\n\nThe Chairman of the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Sergio Ortiz-Luis Jr., quelled fears that foreign investors might be put off by the increasing rate of killings in the country, explaining at a press conference on September 19, 2016, that investors only care about profit: \"They don't care if 50 percent of Filipinos are killing each other so long as they're not affected\". On the following day the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that foreign investors, who account for half of the activity on the Philippine Stock Exchange, had been \"hightailing it out of town\", selling $500 million worth of shares over the past month, putting pressure on the Philippine peso which was close to its weakest point since 2009.\n\nThe Archbishop of Manila Luis Antonio Tagle acknowledged that people were right to be \"worried about extrajudicial killings\", along with other \"form[s] of murder\": abortion, unfair labor practices, wasting food, and \"selling illegal drugs, pushing the youth to go into vices\".\n\nDuring his official state visit to the Philippines in January 2017, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe said: \"On countering illegal drugs, we want to work together with the Philippines through relevant measures of support\". He offered financial assistance for Philippine drug rehabilitation centres, and made no mention of deaths resulting from the drug war. He announced a $800 million Official Development Assistance package to \"promote economic and infrastructure development\".\n\nGary Song-Huann Lin, the representative of Taiwan in the Philippines, welcomed Duterte's plan to declare a war against criminality and illegal drugs. He said Taiwan is ready to help the Philippines combat cross-border crimes like human and drug trafficking.\n\nOn July 19, 2016, Lingxiao Li, spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Manila, announced China's support for the Drug War: \"China fully understands that the Philippine government under the leadership of H. E. President Rodrigo Duterte has taken it as a top priority to crack down drug-related crimes. China has expressed explicitly to the new administration China's willingness for effective cooperation in this regard, and would like to work out a specific plan of action with the Philippine side.\" The statement made no reference to extrajudicial killings, and called illegal drugs the \"common enemy of mankind\". On September 27, the Chinese Ambassador Zhao Jianhua reiterated that \"Illegal drugs are the enemy of all mankind\" in a statement confirming Chinese support for the Duterte administration.\n\nIndonesian National Police Chief General Tito Karnavian commented in regards to Indonesia's rejection of a similar policy for Indonesia: \"Shoot on sight policy leads to abuse of power. We still believe in the presumption of innocence. Lethal actions are only warranted if there is an immediate threat against officers... there should not be a deliberate attempt to kill\". In September 2016 Budi Waseso, head of Indonesia's National Anti-Narcotics Agency (BNN), said that he was currently contemplating copying the Philippines' hardline tactics against drug traffickers. He said that the Agency planned a major increase in armaments and recruitment. An Agency spokesman later attempted to downplay the comments, stating: \"We can't shoot criminals just like that, we have to follow the rules.\" Most recently, Indonesian President Joko “Jokowi” Widodo used the language of “emergency” to ramp up the country's war on drugs, in a move that observers see as \"in step with Filipino President Rodrigo Duterte’s\" own campaign against the illegal drug trade.\n\nOn October 16, prior to Duterte's departure for a state visit to Brunei, the President said he would seek the support of that country for his campaign against illegal drugs and Brunei's continued assistance to achieve peace and progress in Mindanao. This was responded positively from Brunei Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah in the next day according to Philippine Foreign Affairs Secretary Perfecto Yasay Jr. Malaysia's Deputy Prime Minister Ahmad Zahid Hamidi said \"he respect the method undertaken by the Philippine government as it is suitable for their country situation\", while stressing that \"Malaysia will never follow such example as we have our own methods with one of those such as seizing assets used in drug trafficking with resultant funds to be channelled back towards rehabilitation, prevention and enforcement of laws against drugs\".\n\nOn December 3, 2016, Duterte said that during a phone conversation on the previous day with then-United States President-elect Donald Trump, Trump had invited him to Washington, and endorsed his Drug War policy, assuring him that it was being conducted \"the right way\". Duterte described the conversation: \n\nOn December 16, Duterte and Singaporean President Tony Tan and Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong agreed to work together in the fight against terrorism and illegal drugs. In a meeting during a state visit both parties discussed areas of cooperation between the two countries.\n\nThe European Parliament expressed concern over the extrajudicial killings after a resolution on September 15, stating: \"Drug trafficking and drug abuse in the Philippines remain a serious national and international concern, note MEPs. They understand that millions of people are hurt by the high level of drug addiction and its consequences in the country but are also concerned by the 'extraordinarily high numbers killed during police operations in the context of an intensified anti-crime and anti-drug campaign.\" In response, at a press conference Duterte made an obscene hand gesture and called British and French representatives \"hypocrites\" because their ancestors had killed thousands of Arabs and others in the colonial era. He said: \"When I read the EU condemnation I told them fuck you. You are doing it in atonement for your sins. They are now strict because they have guilty feelings. Who did I kill? Assuming that it's true? 1,700? How many have they killed?\"\n\nEU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, in a visit to the Philippines in March 2017, warned that unless the Philippines addresses human rights issues, the EU would cancel tariff-free export of 6,000 products under the Generalized System of Preferences. Presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella dismissed the concerns, saying that they revealed European ignorance.\n\nOn December 24, U.S. Senators Marco Rubio, Edward Markey, and Christopher Coons expressed their concerns regarding the alleged extrajudicial killings and human rights violations in Duterte's war on drugs. Through a letter sent to the U.S. Department of State, they noted that instead of addressing the drug problem, investing in treatment programs or approaching the issue with an emphasis on health, Duterte has \"pledged to kill another 20,000 to 30,000 people, many simply because they suffer from a drug use disorder.\" Rubio, Markey and Coons also questioned U.S. secretary of state John Kerry's pledge of $32-million funding for training and other law-enforcement assistance during his visit to Manila. In May 2017, Senator Rubio, along with Senator Ben Cardin, filed a bipartisan bill in the U.S. Senate to restrict the exportation of weapons from the U.S. to the Philippines.\n\nThe US ambassador in Manila announced on December 14, 2016, that the US foreign aid agency, the Millennium Challenge Corporation, would cancel funding to the Philippines due to \"significant concerns around rule of law and civil liberties in the Philippines\", explaining that aid recipients were required to demonstrate a \"commitment to the rule of law, due process and respect for human rights\". The MCC had disbursed $434 million to the Philippines from 2011 to 2015. The funding denial was expected to lead to the cancellation of a five-year infrastructure development project previously agreed to in December 2015.\nIn February 2017, former Colombian President César Gaviria wrote an opinion piece on \"The New York Times\" to warn Duterte and the administration that the drug war is \"unwinnable\" and \"disastrous\", citing his own experiences as the President of Colombia. He also criticized the alleged extrajudicial killings and vigilantism, saying these are \"the wrong ways to go\". According to Gaviria, the war on drugs is essentially a war on people. Gaviria suggested that improving public health and safety, strengthening anti-corruption measures, investing in sustainable development, decriminalizing drug consumption, and strengthening the regulation of therapeutic goods would enhance supply and demand reduction. In response to Gaviria, Duterte called him an \"idiot\", and said the issue of extrajudicial killings should be set aside, and that there were four to five million drug addicts in the country.\n\nIn September 2017, Foreign Affairs Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano delivered a speech at the 72nd United Nations General Assembly, during which he argued that extrajudicial killings were a myth, and that the Drug war, which according to Human Rights Watch has resulted in 13,000 deaths to date, was being waged to \"protect (the) human rights of...the most vulnerable (citizens)\".\n\nIn October 2017, Secretary Cayetano was interviewed by the Qatari news outlet al-Jazeera. He asserted that all 3,900 people who were killed in the drug war fought against the police despite there having been no investigations conducted prior to the drug busts. He also rebuffed all claims that the drug war was against its people.\n\nOn June 19, 2018, 38 United Nations member states released a collective statement through the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC), calling on the Republic of the Philippines and Philippine president Rodrigo Duterte to stop the killings in the country and probe abuses caused by the deadly drug war. The 38 nations included Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Macedonia, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Kingdom and the United States.\n\nOn April 9, 2018, Netflix aired its first series from the Philippines entitled, AMO, made by Filipino director, Brillante Mendoza.\n\n\"Hustisya\" is a rap song about the drug war which was created by local artists inspired by the death of their friend immortalized in a photograph often compared to Michelangelo's \"Pieta.\n\nIn December 2016, American singer James Taylor posted on social media that he had cancelled his concert in Manila, which was set for February 2017, citing the increasing number of deaths related to the drug war.\n\nOn April 11, 2017, \"The New York Times\" won a Pulitzer Prize for breaking news photography on their Philippine Drug war report. The story was published on December 7, 2016, and was titled \"They Are Slaughtering Us Like Animals\".\n\nThe \"La Pieta\" or the \"Philippines \"Pieta\"\", named after the sculpture by Michelangelo, refers to the photograph of Jennilyn Olayres holding the lifeless corpse of Michael Siaron, who was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Pasay, Metro Manila, on July 23, 2016. The image was widely used in the national press. The death of Michael Siaron remains unsolved for almost a year. Malacañang asserts that the man behind the killing were committed by drug syndicates themselves. After Siaron was shot dead by unidentified assailants, a writing on a cardboard states, \"Wag tularan si Siaron dahil pusher umano,\" was placed on his body. One year and three months after he was killed, the police identified as the suspected assailant as Nesty Santiago through a ballistic exam on the recovered firearm. Santiago was apparently a member of a syndicate involved in robberies, car thefts, hired killings and illegal drugs. The Pasay City Police declared his death as \"case closed\". However, Santiago was also killed by riding-in-tandem on December 29, 2016. No further investigation were made.\n\nA photo of a body of an alleged drug dealer, killed during a police anti-drug operation, in Manila by Noel Celis has been selected as one of Time Magazine's top 100 photos of 2017.\n\nThere are various mobile games featuring Duterte fighting criminals, many of which have since been censored by Apple Inc. from their App Store following an appeal by various regional organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37199105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37199105", "title": "Philippine Negrito languages", "text": "Philippine Negrito languages\n\nThe Negrito peoples of the Philippines speak various Philippine languages. They have more in common with neighboring languages than with each other, and are listed here merely as an aid to identification.\n\nLobel (2013) lists the following Black Filipino (i.e., Philippine Negrito) ethnolinguistic groups.\n(\"Lobel (2010) lists the following Negrito languages that are spoken on the eastern coast of Luzon Island, listed from north to south.\")\n\n\nFurthermore, Robinson & Lobel (2013) argue that Dupaningan Agta, Pahanan Agta, Casiguran Agta, Nagtipunan Agta, Dinapigue Agta, and Paranan do not belong to the Northern Cordilleran branch, but rather a new branch that they call \"Northeastern Luzon\", which they consider to be a primary branch of the Northern Luzon (Cordilleran) group.\n\n\n\nReid (1994) lists the following Negrito languages.\n\n\n\"Ethnologue\" adds extinct and unclassified Katabaga of southern Luzon.\n\nLobel (2010) lists the following percentage of unique vocabulary items out of 1,000 compared words in these Negrito languages, which Reid (1994) suggests are lexical remnants from the pre-Austronesian substrata that these Negrito languages may have. Manide and Umiray Dumaget have the most unique vocabulary items.\n\nOther Southeast Asian languages with high proportions of unique vocabulary of possible isolate origin include the Enggano language of Indonesia and the Kenaboi language of Malaysia.\n\nReid (1994) lists the following reconstructed forms as possible non-Austronesian lexical elements in Philippine Negrito languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "475355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=475355", "title": "Pueblos jóvenes", "text": "Pueblos jóvenes\n\nPueblos jóvenes (, \"young towns\") is the nickname given to the vast shanty towns that surround Lima and other cities of Peru. Many of these towns have developed into significant districts in Lima such as Villa El Salvador and Comas.\n\nThey are populated almost exclusively by Black, Amerindian, and mestizo campesinos who since the 1940s have migrated in great waves from Peru's countryside in search of economic opportunity, turning Lima into the fourth-largest city in the Americas. Like many other rapidly industrializing cities, Lima's job market has largely been unable to keep up with this influx of people, forcing many to accept any housing available.\nMost of the inhabitants of the pueblos jóvenes also came in order to escape terrorism during the 1980s.\n\nThe towns are composed of poorly constructed shacks which generally lack running water, and other basic services although electricity is usually available on a pirated DIY basis. In both appearance and culture, they are similar to the favelas of Brazil and other Latin American cities. Crime is rampant.\n\nWater delivery or services to these parts of Lima costs between 6 and ten times as much as it does in affluent parts of Lima such as San Isidro or Miraflores.\n\nWork to improve life in these areas is carried on by organisations such as the NGO Asociacion SOLAC and the theatre group Vichama.\n\nMany of the dwellings are painted with the colors of the American Popular Revolutionary Alliance (APRA), the Socialist Party of Peru, or political candidates. Some still bear the logo of now convicted three-term president Alberto Fujimori, sometimes because the resident hasn't had the time or money to repaint their dwelling, sometimes because they still support Fujimori.\n\nPresident Alejandro Toledo, Fujimori's successor, pushed through various initiatives to encourage peasants to return to the farming and mining communities whence they came, but they have not been effective.\n\nThe Peruvian government has permitted these communities to continue largely because it realizes that, were they to eradicate them, the inhabitants would simply move elsewhere in the city's peripheral areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31531162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31531162", "title": "Resm-i arusane", "text": "Resm-i arusane\n\nThe resm-i arus, or resm-i arusane, was a feudal bride-tax in the Ottoman Empire. It was typically a fixed fee, a \"divani\" tax; it was paid around the time of marriage, to the timar-holder, or even to a tax-farmer in their stead. The tax-collector might record details of individual marriages, although this was not equivalent to the church marriage-registers in contemporary western Europe and some of the tax records are unclear. \n\nResm-i arusane is first recorded in the fifteenth century AD. Although it was arguably incompatible with the shari'ah law, the resm-i arusane continued to be a small, but significant, source of tax revenue in the Ottoman Empire. For instance, tax records for the village of Sakal Dutan in 1550 show a total 810 akçes of tax revenue, of which 30 akçe were from resm-i arusane. One 16th-century fatwa specifically stated that the resm-i arusane and the resm-i hinzir (pig tax) were illegal, but these taxes on \"forbidden\" transactions continued - sometimes under the guise of \"gifts\". \n\nVarious sources suggest that the fee was paid either by the \"bride\" or the \"husband\"; rates might vary according to the bride's personal status and religion. One preserved document sets resm-i arusane at double the rate for virgins compared to widows; and Muslim rates paid twice as much as unbelievers. The \"kannunname\" of Rhodos and Cos, in 1650, set resm-i arusane at 30 aspers for widows (regardless of their religion), and 60 aspers for virgins.\n\nA Christian couple who wished to marry in a church would also have to pay nikâh resmi to the metropolitan, and a further fee to the local parish priest; this could be considerably more expensive than the resm-i arusane itself. There would also be a charge for registering the marriage with the government.\n"}
{"id": "32694749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32694749", "title": "Revolutionäre Gewerkschafts Opposition", "text": "Revolutionäre Gewerkschafts Opposition\n\nThe Revolutionäre Gewerkschafts Opposition (Revolutionary Union Opposition) was the Communist union in Germany during the Weimar Republic. It went underground after the Nazi Party seized control of the government and continued operating until it was crushed by the Nazis in 1935.\n\nThe Communist International (Comintern) and the Communist Party of Germany (KPD) had both wanted to create their own revolutionary unions and had attempted to use the Union of Manual and Intellectual Workers (UMIW), which had a high proportion of KPD members within its ranks, to that end. The KPD's relationship with the UMIW was strained by the lack of discipline within the Union and eventually, the relationship was ended.\n\nIn 1928, after the 4th World Congress of the Profintern and the 6th World Congress of the Comintern, Communists took an ultra-left position toward social democrats, branding them as \"social fascists\". Efforts to establish an independent union were renewed, and the KPD began to systematically set up an opposing faction within the \"Allgemeiner Deutscher Gewerkschaftsbund\" (ADGB).\n\nOn March 14, 1929, the central committee of the KPD decided to register as members people who had been expelled as radicals from a trade union. In June 1929, Michael Niederkirchner was expelled from the German Metal Workers' Federation and founded an aid organization for others who had been expelled, which later became the core of the RGO. The KPD founded the RGO in December 1929 with the idea of consolidating the left within the ADGB. Those KPD members still in the ADGB became the principal opposition from within.\n\nAs of 1930, the RGO was promoted as a \"red class trade union\" and several cross-over campaigns were initiated, but never to great success. The RGO had a membership in 1932 of about 250,000 members. Large sections of the unionist wing of the KPD left the party and more than half of the RGO was unemployed. To bolster appearances, the RGO counted only admissions, not those who dropped out. Because the Communists lost influence in the trade unions from people leaving, and to a lesser extent, from expulsions, in 1931, they changed their strategy. Communists were to mount opposition within the ADGB and other such groups in order to strengthen \"red associations\", organizations that would develop into Communist unions. This turned the RGO into a Communist front organization, but it was unable to convert itself into a Communist union movement. The three largest \"red associations\" organized were in metalworking, mining, and construction and even those were never more than 1% of the workforce. RGO leaders were never elected at normal union meetings; rather they emerged from the trade union section of the KPD's central committee.\n\nIn 1932, the RGO attracted national attention by joining the NSBO (the Nazi labor union) in support of a wildcat strike against the Berlin Transportation Company (BVG) which had cut wages.\n\nAfter the Nazis seized power, they crushed the unions. On 2 May 1933, the SS and SA seized all the offices of the ADGB and its member unions. The RGO went underground and continued to function until it was crushed in 1935.\n\nAfter World War II, the Free German Trade Union Federation was established in East Germany as a unified trade union for Communists and others. In the 1970s, the Maoist Communist Party of Germany (Structural Organization) and the KPD/Marxist–Leninist tried to revive the RGO, but had little success.\n"}
{"id": "584392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584392", "title": "Ryukyuan languages", "text": "Ryukyuan languages\n\nThe are the indigenous languages of the Ryukyu Islands, the southernmost part of the Japanese archipelago. Along with the Japanese language, they make up the Japonic language family. The languages are not mutually intelligible with each other. It is not known how many speakers of these languages remain, but language shift towards the use of Standard Japanese and dialects like Okinawan Japanese has resulted in these languages becoming endangered; UNESCO labels four of the languages \"definitely endangered\", and two others \"severely endangered\".\n\nPhonologically, the Ryukyuan languages have some cross-linguistically unusual features. Southern Ryukyuan languages have a number of syllabic consonants, including unvoiced syllabic fricatives (e.g. Ōgami Miyako 'breast'). Glottalized consonants are common (e.g. Yuwan Amami \"horse\"). Some Ryukyuan languages have phonemic central vowels, e.g. Yuwan Amami \"tree\". Ikema Miyako has a voiceless nasal phoneme . Many Ryukyuan languages, like Standard Japanese and most Japanese dialects, have contrastive pitch accent.\n\nRyukyuan languages are generally SOV, dependent-marking, modifier-head, nominative-accusative languages, like the Japanese language. Adjectives are generally bound morphemes, occurring either with noun compounding or using verbalization. Many Ryukyuan languages mark both nominatives and genitives with the same marker. This marker has the unusual feature of changing form depending on an animacy hierarchy. The Ryukyuan languages have topic and focus markers, which may take different forms depending on the sentential context. Ryukyuan also preserves a special verbal inflection for clauses with focus markers—this unusual feature was also found in Old Japanese, but lost in Modern Japanese.\n\nThe Ryukyuan languages belong to the Japonic language family, related to the Japanese language. The Ryukyuan languages are not mutually intelligible with Japanese—in fact, they are not even mutually intelligible with each other—and thus may be considered separate languages. However, for socio-political and ideological reasons, they have often classified within Japan as dialects of Japanese. Since the beginning of World War II, most mainland Japanese have regarded the Ryukyuan languages as a dialect or group of dialects of Japanese. During World War II, in an effort to build consciousness in people as subjects of the Japanese Empire, not only the Ryukyuan group, but also Korean, Palauan and various other languages were referred to as \"dialects\" of Japanese.\n\nThe Okinawan language is only 71% lexically similar to, or cognate with, standard Tokyo Japanese. Even the southernmost Japanese dialect (Kagoshima dialect) is only 72% cognate with the northernmost Ryukyuan language (Amami). The Kagoshima dialect of Japanese, however, is 80% lexically similar to Standard Japanese. There is general agreement among linguistics experts that Ryukyuan varieties can be divided into six languages, conservatively, with dialects unique to islands within each group also sometimes considered languages.\n\nA widely accepted hypothesis among linguists categorizes the Ryukyuan languages into two groups, Northern Ryukyuan (Amami–Okinawa) and Southern Ryukyuan (Miyako–Yaeyama). Many speakers of the Amami, Miyako, Yaeyama and Yonaguni languages may also be familiar with Okinawan since Okinawan has the most speakers and once acted as the regional standard. Speakers of Yonaguni are also likely to know the Yaeyama language due to its proximity. Since Amami, Miyako, Yaeyama, and Yonaguni are less urbanised than the Okinawan mainland, their languages are not declining as quickly as that of Okinawa proper, and some children continue to be brought up in these languages. In Okinawa proper, a dialect of standard Japanese known as has developed.\n\n\nEach Ryukyuan language is generally unintelligible to others in the same family. There is a wide diversity between them. For example, Yonaguni has only three vowels, whereas varieties of Amami may have up to seven, excluding length distinctions. The table below illustrates the different phrases used in each language for \"thank you\" and \"welcome\", with standard Japanese provided for comparison.\n\nThere is no census data for the Ryukyuan languages, and the number of speakers is unknown. As of 2005, the total population of the Ryukyu region was 1,452,288, but fluent speakers are restricted to the older generation, generally in their 50s or older, and thus the true number of Ryukyuan speakers should be much lower.\n\nStarting in the 1890s, the Japanese government began to suppress the Ryukyuan languages as part of their policy of forced assimilation in the islands. \n\nToday, children still being brought up with the Ryukyuan languages are becoming increasingly rare throughout the islands, and usually only occurs when the children are living with their grandparents. The Ryukyuan languages are still used in traditional cultural activities, such as folk music, folk dance, poem and folk plays. There has also been a radio news program in the Naha dialect since 1960.\n\nIn Okinawa, people under the age of 40 have little proficiency in the native Okinawan language. A new mixed language, based on Japanese and Okinawan, has developed, known as \"Okinawan Japanese\". Although it has been largely ignored by linguists and language activists, this is the language of choice among the younger generation.\n\nSimilarly, the common language now used in everyday conversations in Amami Ōshima is not the traditional Amami language, but rather a regional variation of Amami-accented Japanese, locally nicknamed トン普通語 (\"Ton Futsūgo\", literally meaning \"potato [i.e. rustic] common language\") by older speakers.\n\nTo try to preserve the language, the Okinawan Prefectural government proclaimed on March 31, 2006, that September 18 would be commemorated as , as the day's numerals in \"goroawase\" spell out \"ku\" (9), \"tu\" (10), \"ba\" (8); \"kutuba\" is one of the few words common throughout the Ryukyuan languages meaning \"word\" or \"language\" (a cognate of the Japanese word ). A similar commemoration is held in the Amami region on February 18 beginning in 2007, proclaimed as by Ōshima Subprefecture in Kagoshima Prefecture. Each island has its own name for the event:\nYoronjima's \"fu\" (2) \"tu\" (10) \"ba\" (8) is the \"goroawase\" source of the February 18 date, much like with Okinawa Prefecture's use of \"kutuba\".\n\nIt is generally accepted that the Ryukyu Islands were populated from Mainland Japan in the first millennium, and since then relative isolation from the mainland allowed the Ryukyuan languages to diverge significantly from Old Japanese. However, the discoveries of the Pinza-Abu Cave Man, the Minatogawa Man, and the Yamashita Cave Man as well as the Shiraho Saonetabaru Cave Ruins suggest an earlier arrival to the island by modern humans. Some researchers suggest that the Ryukyuan languages are most likely to have evolved from a \"pre-Proto-Japonic language\" from the Korean peninsula. However, Ryukyuan may have already begun to diverge from early Japanese before this migration, while its speakers still dwelt in the main islands of Japan. After this initial settlement, there was little contact between the main islands and the Ryukyu Islands for centuries, allowing Ryukyuan to diverge as a separate linguistic entity. This situation lasted until the Kyushu-based Satsuma Domain conquered the Ryukyu Islands in the 17th century.\n\nThe Ryukyu Kingdom retained autonomy until 1879, when it was annexed by Japan. The Japanese government adopted a policy of forced assimilation, appointing mainland Japanese to political posts and suppressing native culture and language. Students caught speaking Ryukyuan were made to wear a \"dialect card\" ( \"hōgen fuda\"), a method of public humiliation. Students who regularly wore the card would receive corporal punishment. In 1940, there was a political debate amongst Japanese leaders about whether or not to continue the oppression of the Ryukyuan languages, although the argument for assimilation prevailed. In the World War II era, speaking Ryukyuan was officially illegal, although in practice the older generation was still monolingual. This policy of linguicide lasted into the post-war occupation of the Ryukyu Islands by the United States. As the American occupation forces generally promoted the reforming of a separate Ryukyuan culture, many Okinawan officials continued to strive for Japanification as a form of defiance.\n\nNowadays, in favor of multiculturalism, preserving Ryukyuan languages has become the policy of Okinawa Prefectural government, as well as the government of Kagoshima Prefecture's Ōshima Subprefecture. However, the situation is not very optimistic, since the vast majority of Okinawan children are now monolingual in Japanese.\n\nThe Ryukyuan languages are spoken on the Ryukyu Islands, which comprise the southernmost part of the Japanese archipelago There are four major island groups which make up the Ryukyu Islands: the Amami Islands, the Okinawa Islands, the Miyako Islands, and the Yaeyama Islands. The former is in the Kagoshima Prefecture, while the latter three are in the Okinawa Prefecture.\n\nOlder Ryukyuan texts are often found on stone inscriptions. \"Tamaudun-no-Hinomon\" ( \"Inscription of Tamaudun tomb\") (1501), for example. Within the Ryukyu Kingdom, official texts were written in kanji and hiragana, derived from Japan. However, this was a sharp contrast from Japan at the time, where classical Chinese writing was mostly used for official texts, only using hiragana for informal ones. Classical Chinese writing was sometimes used in Ryukyu as well, read in \"kundoku\" (Ryukyuan) or in Chinese. In Ryukyu, katakana was hardly used.\n\nHistorically, official documents in Ryukyuan were primarily written in a form of classical Chinese writing known as Kanbun, while poetry and songs were often written in the Shuri dialect of Okinawan.\n\nCommoners did not learn kanji. \"Omoro Sōshi\" (1531–1623), a noted Ryukyuan song collection, was mainly written in hiragana. Other than hiragana, they also used Suzhou numerals (\"suuchuuma\" すうちゅうま in Okinawan), derived from China. In Yonaguni in particular, there was a different writing system, the Kaidā glyphs (カイダー字 or カイダーディー). Under Japanese influence, all of those numerals became obsolete.\n\nNowadays, perceived as \"dialects\", Ryukyuan languages are not often written. When they are, Japanese characters are used in an \"ad hoc\" manner. There are no standard orthographies for the modern languages. Sounds not distinguished in the Japanese writing system, such as glottal stops, are not properly written.\n\nSometimes local \"kun'yomi\" are given to kanji, such as \"agari\" (あがり \"east\") for , \"iri\" (いり \"west\") for , thus 西表 is Iriomote.\n\nRyukyuan languages often share many phonological features with Japanese, including a voicing opposition for obstruents, CV(C) syllable structure, moraic rhythm, and pitch accent. However, many individual Ryukyuan languages diverge significantly from this pan-Japonic base. For instance, Ōgami does not have phonemic voicing in obstruents, allows CCVC syllables, and has unusual syllabic consonants such as \"make\".\n\nThe Northern Ryukyuan (Amami-Okinawa) languages are notable for having glottalic consonants. Phonemically these are analyzed of consisting of a cluster + C, where the consonant consists of its own mora. For instance, in the Amami dialect Yuwan the word \"horse\" is bimoraic. Tsuken (Central Okinawan) restricts glottalization to glides and the vowels . Southern Ryukyuan mostly has little to no glottalization, with some exceptions (e.g. Yonaguni). For instance, the Irabu dialect of the Miyako language only allows glottalization with and : \"then\", \"pipe\".\n\nSouthern Ryukyuan stands out in having a number of syllabic consonants. These consonants are contextually nucleic, becoming syllabic when not adjacent to a vowel. Examples:\n\nIrabu Miyako:\nŌgami Miyako\n\nŌgami even shows a three-way length distinction in fricatives, though across a syllable boundary:\n\nIkema (a Miyako dialect) has a voiceless moraic nasal phoneme , which always precedes another nasal onset and assimilates its place of articulation to the following nasal.\n\nAmami has high and mid central vowels. Yonaguni only has three contrasting vowels, , and .\n\nThe Ryukyuan languages operate based on the mora. Most Ryukyuan languages require words to be at least bimoraic, thus for example in Hateruma the underlying noun root \"hand\" becomes when it is an independent noun, though it remains as when attached to a clitic, e.g. . However, the syllable may still sometimes be relevant—for instance, the Ōgami topic marker takes a different form after open syllables with short vowels:\n\nRyukyuan languages typically have a pitch accent system where some mora in a word bears the pitch accent. They commonly either have two or three distinctive types of pitch accent which may be applied. The category of foot also has relevance to the accentual systems of some Ryukyuan languages, and some Miyako varieties have a cross-linguistically rare system of tonal foot. However, Irabu Miyakoan does not have lexical accent.\n\nThe Ryukyuan languages consistently distinguish between the word classes of nouns and verbs, distinguished by the fact that verbs take inflectional morphology. Property-concept (adjectival) words are generally bound morphemes. One strategy they use is compounding with a free-standing noun:\n\nIkema:\n\nYuwan:\nCompounding is found in both Northern and Southern Ryukyuan, but is mostly absent from Hateruma (Yaeyama).\n\nAnother way property stems are used is by verbalization:\n\nYuwan Amami:\nMiyako is unique in having stand-alone adjectives. These may be formed by reduplication of the root, e.g. Irabu Miyako \"imi-\" \"small\" → \"imii-imi\" \"small (adj.)\". They may also be compounded with a grammaticalized noun \"munu\" \"thing\", e.g. Irabu \"imi-munu\" 'small (thing)'.\n\nRyukyuan languages are generally SOV, dependent-marking, modifier-head, nominative-accusative languages. They are also pro-drop languages. All of these features are shared with the Japanese language.\n\nIn many Ryukyuan languages, the nominative and genitive are marked identically, a system also found, for example, in Austronesian languages. However, Ryukyuan has the unusual feature that these markers vary based on an animacy hierarchy. Typically there are two markers of the form \"=ga\" and \"=nu\", which are distinguished based on animacy and definiteness. In Yuwan Amami, for instance, the nominative is marked with \"=ga\"/\"=nu\" and the genitive by \"=ga\"/\"=nu\"/\"=Ø\" based on the following hierarchy:\n\nIn the Miyako varieties, the object in a dependent clause of clause-chaining constructions has a special marker, homophonous to a topic marker. This might even be interpreted as another function of the topic marker.\n\nHateruma Yaeyama stands out in that it is a zero-marking language, where word order rather than case marking is important:\n\nThe Ryukyuan languages mark both topic and focus grammatically. The typical form of the topic marker is \"=(j)a\", or in Southern Ryukyuan \"=ba\"; the typical focus marker is \"=du\". In some Ryukyuan languages there are many focus markers with different functions; for instance, Irabu has \"=du\" in declarative clauses, \"=ru\" in yes-no interrogative clauses, and \"=ga\" in wh-interrogative clauses. The focus markers trigger a special verbal inflection—this typologically unusual focus construction, known as \"kakari-musubi\", was also found in Old Japanese, but has been lost in Modern Japanese.\n\nExamples from Yuwan Amami:\n\nWhile in many Japonic languages this special inflection is often identical to the verbal inflection in relative clauses, in Yuwan Amami is different (the relative inflection is \"-n/-tan\"). There is some variation among the Ryukyuan languages as to the form of kakari-musubi—for example, in Irabu Miyako a focus marker blocks a specific verb form, rather than triggering a special inflection.\n\nPellard (2015) reconstructs the following cultural vocabulary words for Proto-Ryukyuan, the hypothetical proto-language of the Ryukyuan languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50545076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50545076", "title": "Sixian dialect", "text": "Sixian dialect\n\nThe Sixian dialect, also known as the Sixian accent (; Sixian Hakka Romanization System: xi ien kiongˊ / xi ian kiongˊ; Pha̍k-fa-sṳ: Si-yen-khiông / Si-yan-khiông), is a dialect of Hakka used by Taiwanese Hakkas, and it is the most spoken dialect of Taiwanese Hakka, being used in Hakka broadcasting in many public occasions. The Sixian dialect is generally spoken in northern and southern Taiwan, with main representative regions being Taoyuan and Miaoli in the north, as well as the Liudui Region in Kaohsiung and Pingtung in the south.\n\nTaiwanese Hakka is often called \"Si Hai Yong Le Da Ping An\" (), referring to the Sixian (), Hailu (), Yongding (), Changle (), Dabu (), Raoping () and Zhao'an () dialects. Among these, the Sixian and Changle dialects originate in Jiaying Prefecture, Guangdong, established in 1733 during the Qing Dynasty under the rule of Yongzheng Emperor. Historically, the Jiaying Prefecture governed five counties. The Sixian dialect comes from the four counties of Chengxiang (now Meixian), Zhengping (now Jiaoling), Xingning and Pingyuan, giving it the name Sixian (four counties); the Changle dialect originates in its eponym, the county of Changle (now Wuhua). Currently, speakers of the Yongding and Changle dialects have basically left their own families, so only the Sixian, Hailu, Dabu, Raoping and Zhao'an dialects remain in use in Taiwan. In Taiwan, the only widely used Hakka dialects are Sixian and Hailu.\n\nThe Sixian dialect of Taiwan is slightly different from the Meixian dialect of mainland China since the majority of immigrants from Jiaying Prefecture are from Zhenping County, which is present-day Jiaoling County, so the Sixian dialect is closer to the Jiaoling dialect of mainland China. There are also differences in vocabulary and phonology between the Sixian dialect spoken in northern Taiwan (called Northern Sixian or Miaoli dialect) and in Liudui of southern Taiwan (called Southern Sixian). Because of the differences between the two varieties of Sixian, the recitation contests in the National Language Competition separate the contest into the two accents of (Northern) Sixian and Southern Sixian. Alternatively, Sixian may include Xingning and Changle, but because these two counties were formerly a part of Huizhou \"fu\", they may be closer to the Hailu dialect.\n\nAccording to the \"Handbook for Using the Hakka Romanization System\" () published by the Taiwanese Ministry of Education, the rhymes can be split into three categories: yin rhymes (), yang rhymes (), and checked rhymes ().\n\nYin rhymes are rhymes with a pure vowel or a complex vowel.\n\nYang rhymes end in a nasal consonant. They can be syllabic nasals or nuclei (pure or complex vowel) with nasal codas.\n\nChecked rhymes end with a stop consonant (/p̚/、/t̚/、/k̚/) and a short vowel before it.\nUsing and as examples:\n\nIn compounds, if a dark-level tone is followed by a dark-level, light-entering or departing tone, the dark-level tone (24) changes to the light-level tone (11). In Southern Sixian, if a light-level tone (11) is not in the end of a compound, it is changed to the dark-level tone (33 in Meinong). In the Dalukuan and Guangfu Village accents, there are seven tone sandhi rules: the \"low\" dark-level and light-level tones mostly become a mid tone (33) or a high rising tone (35); thus, the tones of these two areas sound higher than the other areas in Liudui.\n\nIn China, the Dabu and Fengshun Counties originally belonging to the Chaozhou \"fu\" have been combined with the former Jiaying Prefecture, establishing Meizhou. Historically, other than the Sixian and Changle dialects, the Dabu and Fengshun dialects were also brought to Taiwan from areas presently governed by Meizhou in China. The Fengshun dialect mainly originates in Fengshun and Jieyang Counties. However, in Taiwan, speakers of the Dabu and Fengshun dialects are still traditionally considered to be Chaozhou Hakkas. Other than the Dabu and Fengshun dialects, the Raoping dialect is also from Chaozhou, specifically the Raoping and Huilai Counties.\n\nIn Taiwan, the Sixian dialect is the most spoken dialect spoken by the Hakkas, and following is the Hailu dialect (Sixian Hakka Romanization System: hoiˋ liug kiongˊ). The Hailu dialect originates in Huizhou \"fu\" (present-day Huizhou and Shanwei) in mainland China, so it is also sometimes called the Huizhou dialect. Since there are many Hakka dialects in Taiwan, when Taiwanese Hakkas interact with each other, there may be influences from other dialects, forming a dialect between the Sixian and Hailu dialects called the Si-Hai dialect (or Hai-Si dialect). The Sihai dialect is not a particular accent, but is just formed because of the interaction between different Hakka groups. Taiwanese Hakka can generally be classified under the Yue-Tai dialects, which are also called the Si-Hai dialects.\n\nThe Sixian, Hailu, Changle, Dabu and Raoping dialects all come from Guangdong, China, so Taiwanese Hakkas trace back their origins to Guangdong. Even Hakkas from Tingzhou \"fu\", Fujian, consider themselves to be from Yuedong (Guangdong). Therefore, there is a parallel between \"Yuedong Hakkas\" and \"Minnan Hoklos\". Taiwanese Hakka dialects from Fujian include the Yongding, Zhao'an and Tingzhou dialects. The Yongding dialect originates in the Yongding, Shanghang and Wuping Counties of Tingzhou \"fu\". Its phonology is close to Yuedong dialects (e.g. Sixian and Dabu dialects). The Tingzhou dialect originates in the Changting, Ninghua, Qingliu, Guihua and Liancheng Counties of Tingzhou \"fu\". The Zhao'an dialect originates in the Zhao'an, Pinghe, Nanjing and Hua'an Counties of Zhangzhou \"fu\". The Zhao'an and Tingzhou dialects are quite different from the Yue-Tai (Si-Hai) dialects, making them unique in Taiwan.\n"}
{"id": "39094287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39094287", "title": "Stimulus–response compatibility", "text": "Stimulus–response compatibility\n\nStimulus–response (S–R) compatibility is the degree to which a person's perception of the world is compatible with the required action. S–R compatibility has been described as the \"naturalness\" of the association between a stimulus and its response, such as a left-oriented stimulus requiring a response from the left side of the body. A high level of S–R compatibility is typically associated with a shorter reaction time, whereas a low level of S-R compatibility tends to result in a longer reaction time, a phenomenon known as the Simon effect.\n\nThe term \"stimulus-response compatibility\" was first coined by Arnold Small in a presentation in 1951.\n\nS–R compatibility can be seen in the variation in the amount of time taken to respond to a visual stimulus, given the similarity of the event that prompts the action, and the action itself. For example, a visual stimulus in the left of a person's field of vision is more compatible with a response involving the left hand than with a response involving the right hand.\n\nIn 1953, Paul Fitts and C. M. Seeger ran the first experiment conclusively demonstrating that certain responses are more compatible with certain stimuli, during which subjects were alternatively instructed to press buttons on their left and right in response to lights which could appear in either the left or right corner of their field of vision. The study found that subjects took longer when the stimulus and response were incompatible. This was not in and of itself evidence for a relationship between S–R compatibility and reaction time; an alternate hypothesis posited that the delay was simply the result of the sensory information taking longer to reach neural processing centers when hemispheres are crossed. This alternate hypothesis was disproven by a follow-up trial in which Fitts and Seeger had subjects cross their arms, so that the left hand would press the right button and vice versa; the difference between reaction times of subjects in the standard and crossed-arms trials was statistically insignificant, even though the neural signal traveled a greater distance.\n\nThe reverse scenario was tested in a 1954 experiment by Richard L. Deninger and Paul Fitts, in which it was demonstrated that subjects responded more quickly when the stimulus and response were compatible. Solid evidence that S-R compatibility impacted the response planning phase was not found until 1995, when Bernhard Hommel demonstrated that modifying stimuli in ways unrelated to S-R compatibility, such as the size of the objects on the computer screen, did not increase reaction time.\n\nThis phenomenon also applies to auditory stimuli. For example, hearing a tone in one ear prepares that side of the body to respond, and the reaction time will be longer if one is required to perform an action with the opposite side of the body as the side where the tone was heard, or vice versa.\n\nIn 2000, T. E. Roswarski and Robert Proctor conducted a variation of the original Fitts and Seeger experiment involving auditory tones in each ear instead of lights. The experiment showed that the reaction time for auditory signals is also influenced by S-R compatibility.\n\nAnother determinant of S-R compatibility is the destination of a moving stimulus. For example, an object moving towards the right hand is more compatible with a right-hand response than an object moving towards the left hand, even if the object is closer to the left hand when the stimulus is perceived.\n\nAn experiment by Claire Michaels in 1988 demonstrated the role of motion in determining S–R compatibility. In this experiment, subjects were presented with a computer display with their hands extended, and a square on the screen would appear at some random location and move towards either the right or left hand. Choice reaction time was faster when subjects responded with the same hand the square was moving towards. This experiment showed that reaction time was affected more by the destination of the square than by its current location relative to the hand by showing that reaction time was even shorter when the square started in the middle of the screen than when it was close to the destination hand.\n\nAlso important to S–R compatibility is the type of stimulus; familiar objects tend to invite specific responses. As one example, if an object is perceived as more easily (or more typically) manipulable with one hand than the other, any response requiring use of the other hand will tend to have a long reaction time.\n\nIn 1998, Mike Tucker and Rob Ellis conducted an experiment at the University of Plymouth which expanded the concept of S–R compatibility to higher-order cognition. In their experiment, subjects were given two buttons, one on their left and one on their right, and shown a series of pictures of familiar objects like frying pans and teacups. For each image, they were asked to press the left button if the object in the image was upright and the right button if the object was inverted. However, the objects also varied in their rotation, such that the handles faced either left or right. The experiment revealed that seeing the handle pointing in one direction primed subjects to reach with the corresponding hand, which caused discrepancies in S-R compatibility that affected reaction time; for example, a subject seeing an inverted teapot with a handle pointing left took longer to press the button on the right than a subject who saw the same teapot pointing right.\n\nPrior knowledge and stereotyping plays a role in S–R compatibility. If a required response is inconsistent with a person's stereotyped knowledge of a stimulus and its \"typical\" reactions, even if the person is aware of the necessary response in the new situation, compatibility will be low. For example, light switches in the United Kingdom are \"on\" when toggled down, but light switches in the United States are \"on\" when toggled up; a native of one country visiting the other will demonstrate low S-R compatibility when turning the lights on or off. As another example, red lights are universally associated with \"stop\" and green with \"go\", and a reversed configuration will result in a longer reaction time.\n\nS–R compatibility is an important consideration in the field of human-computer interaction, and in software engineering. Programs are easier and more intuitive to use when the input of the user and the output of the program are S–R-compatible. This would also be an important consideration in the physical design of objects...for instance, an electrical appliance with an on/off switch will be most intuitive if it is designed to conform to cultural expectations.\n\nAdditionally, principles of S–R compatibility are important considerations for psychology researchers; experiments may need to be controlled for the phenomenon. For example, behavioral neuroscience researchers should make sure that a task does not inadvertently vary along dimensions of S–R compatibility.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34584497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34584497", "title": "Succession to the French throne", "text": "Succession to the French throne\n\nThis article covers the mechanism by which the French throne passed from the establishment of the Frankish Kingdom in 486 to the fall of the Second French Empire in 1870.\n\nThe Merovingians were a Salian Frankish dynasty that came to rule the Franks in a region (known as Francia in Latin) largely corresponding to ancient Gaul from the middle of the 5th century.\n\nClovis I was the first Germanic ruler to convert to Roman Catholicism. The Franks began to adopt Christianity following the baptism of Clovis, an event that inaugurated the alliance between the Frankish kingdom and the Roman Catholic Church. Even so, the Merovingian kings were largely beyond the control of the Pope. Because they were able to worship with their Catholic neighbors, the newly-Christianized Franks found much easier acceptance from the local Gallo-Roman population than did the Arian Visigoths, Vandals or Burgundians. The Merovingians thus built what eventually proved the most stable of the successor-kingdoms in the west.\n\nFollowing Frankish custom, the kingdom was partitioned among Clovis' four sons, and over the next century this tradition of partition continued. Even when several Merovingian kings simultaneously ruled their own realms, the kingdom — not unlike the late Roman Empire — was conceived of as a single entity. Externally, the kingdom, even when divided under different kings, maintained unity and conquered Burgundy in 534. After the fall of the Ostrogoths, the Franks also conquered Provence. Internally, the kingdom was divided among Clovis' sons and later among his grandsons which frequently saw war between the different kings, who allied among themselves and against one another. The death of one king created conflict between the surviving brothers and the deceased's sons, with differing outcomes. Due to frequent warfare, the kingdom was occasionally united under one king. Although this prevented the kingdom from being fragmented into numerous parts, this practice weakened royal power, for they had to make concessions to the nobility to procure their support in war.\n\nIn each Frankish kingdom the Mayor of the Palace served as the chief officer of state. From about the turn of the eighth century, the Austrasian Mayors tended to wield the real power in the kingdom, laying the foundation for a new dynasty.\n\nThe Carolingians consolidated their power in the late seventh century, eventually making the offices of mayor of the palace and \"dux et princeps Francorum\" hereditary and becoming the \"de facto\" rulers of the Franks as the real powers behind the throne.\n\nTo legalize the power already being exercised by the mayors of the palace, Pepin requested and received from the pope a decision that whoever exercised the actual power in the kingdom should be the legal ruler. After this decision the throne was declared vacant. Childeric III was deposed and confined to a monastery.\n\nAccording to ancient custom, Pepin was then elected King of the Franks by an assembly of Frankish nobles, with a large portion of his army on hand (in case the nobility inclined not to honor the Papal bull). Although such elections happened infrequently, a general rule in Germanic law stated that the king relied on the support of his leading men. These men reserved the right to choose a new leader if they felt that the old one could not lead them in profitable battle. While in later France the kingdom became hereditary, the kings of the later Holy Roman Empire proved unable to abolish the elective tradition and continued as elected rulers until the Empire's formal end in 1806. In 754 the pope reaffirmed the election of Pepin by crossing the Alps and personally anointing the new king in the Old Testament manner, as the Chosen of the Lord.\n\nBehind the pope's action lay his need for a powerful protector. In 751 the Lombards had conquered the Exarchate of Ravenna, the center of Byzantine government in Italy, were demanding tribute from the pope, and threatened to besiege Rome. Following Pepin's coronation, the pope secured the new ruler's promise of armed intervention in Italy and his pledge to give the papacy the Exarchate of Ravenna, once it was conquered. In 756 a Frankish army forced the Lombard king to relinquish his conquests, and Pepin officially gave Ravenna to the pope. Known as the \"Donation of Pepin,\" the gift made the pope a temporal ruler over the Papal States, a strip of territory that extended diagonally\nacross northern Italy.\n\nThe greatest Carolingian monarch was Charlemagne, who was crowned Emperor by Pope Leo III at Rome in 800. His empire, ostensibly a continuation of the Roman Empire, is referred to historiographically as the Carolingian Empire.\n\nThe Carolingians followed the Frankish custom of dividing inheritances among the surviving sons, though the concept of the indivisibility of the Empire was also accepted. The Carolingians had the practice of making their sons (sub-)kings in the various regions (regna) of the Empire, which they would inherit on the death of their father. Though the Carolingian Empire may have several kings, the imperial dignity was accorded only to the oldest son.\n\nCharlemagne had three legitimate sons who survived infancy: Charles the Younger, King of Neustria, Pepin, King of Italy, and Louis, King of Aquitaine. In the \"Divisio Regnorum\" of 806, Charlemagne had slated Charles the Younger as his successor as emperor and chief king, ruling over the Frankish heartland of Neustria and Austrasia, while giving Pepin the Iron Crown of Lombardy, which Charlemagne possessed by conquest. To Louis's kingdom of Aquitaine, he added Septimania, Provence, and part of Burgundy. But Charlemagne's other legitimate sons died – Pepin in 810 and Charles in 811 – and Louis alone remained to be crowned co-emperor with Charlemagne in 813. Pepin, King of Italy, left behind a son, Bernard. On the death of Charlemagne in 814, Louis inherited the entire Frankish kingdom and all its possessions (the concept of successional representation was not yet well-established). But Bernard was allowed to retain control of Italy, the sub-kingdom of his father.\n\nFollowing the death of Louis the Pious, the surviving adult Carolingians fought a three-year civil war ending only in the Treaty of Verdun, which divided the empire into three regna while imperial status and a nominal lordship was accorded to Lothair I.\n\nThe Carolingians differed markedly from the Merovingians in that they disallowed inheritance to illegitimate offspring, possibly in an effort to prevent infighting among heirs and assure a limit to the division of the realm. In the late ninth century, however, the lack of suitable adults among the Carolingians necessitated the rise of Arnulf of Carinthia, a bastard child of a legitimate Carolingian king.\n\nThe Carolingians were displaced in most of the regna of the Empire in 888. They ruled on in East Francia until 911 and they held the throne of West Francia intermittently until 987. Though they asserted their prerogative to rule, their hereditary, God-given right, and their usual alliance with the Church, they were unable to stem the principle of electoral monarchy and their propagandism failed them in the long run. Carolingian cadet branches continued to rule in Vermandois and Lower Lorraine after the last king died in 987, but they never sought thrones of principalities and made peace with the new ruling families.\n\nFrom 977 to 986, Hugh Capet, son of Hugh the Great, Duke of the Franks, allied himself with the German emperors Otto II and Otto III and with Archbishop Adalberon of Reims to dominate the Carolingian king, Lothair. By 986, he was king in all but name. After Lothair's son Louis V died in May 987, Adalberon and Gerbert of Aurillac convened an assembly of nobles to elect Hugh Capet as their king.\n\nImmediately after his coronation, Hugh began to push for the coronation of his son Robert. Hugh's own claimed reason was that he was planning an expedition against the Moorish armies harassing Borrel II of Barcelona, an invasion which never occurred, and that the stability of the country necessitated two kings should he die while on expedition. Ralph Glaber, however, attributes Hugh's request to his old age and inability to control the nobility. Modern scholarship has largely imputed to Hugh the motive of establishing a dynasty against the claims of electoral power on the part of the aristocracy, but this is not the typical view of his contemporaries and even some modern scholars have been less skeptical of Hugh's \"plan\" to campaign in Spain. Robert was eventually crowned on 25 December 987. A measure of Hugh's success is that when he died in 996, Robert continued to reign without anyone disputing his rights, but during his long reign actual royal power dissipated into the hands of the great territorial magnates.\n\nThus, the early Capetians made their position \"de facto\" hereditary by associating their eldest sons to the kingship while they still live. By the death of Philip I, this hereditary feature had become established in custom. Even though Philip refused to have his son crowned during his lifetime, Louis succeeded with little trouble. Yet the association of the eldest son to the kingship continued for two more generations, with Philip II Augustus being the last king so crowned.\n\nHenry I became sole ruler on his father's death in 1031. The succession, however, was hotly contested by his younger brother Robert. Constance of Arles, Henry’s mother, preferred to place her younger son, Robert, on the throne. She allied herself with one of the more powerful counts of the time, Odo II, Count of Blois.\n\nThis alliance was particularly worrisome for Henry I. Odo II of Blois was a very powerful lord and had warred against Henry’s father throughout his reign; he had enlarged his possessions to the point of encircling the royal demesne. With his alliance, the queen mother and her son Robert managed to expel King Henry from his own demesne lands, forcing him to seek refuge at the court of the duke of Normandy, Robert.\n\nKing Henry formed an alliance with the powerful duke of Normandy, Robert, by granting him the French Vexin, or the lands between the rivers Epte and Oise. Although this has been debated by modern scholarship, the fact remains that Robert fought alongside the king. Henry also managed to gain the alliance of another powerful count, Baldwin IV of Flanders.\n\nFinally, Henry added Emperor Henry II to his camp. The emperor had personal issues with Odo II. He wished nothing more than to rid himself of a powerful foe and troublesome neighbour. Odo had invaded Henry’s lands in Burgundy and took many castles and places. Henry and his allies recovered the royal lands that had been lost to the usurpers. The conflict didn’t end there; there was still a chance for Robert to win the throne. Henry, to guarantee his brother’s submission, granted him the vast duchy of Burgundy, which had been added to the royal demesne by Robert II.\n\nOdo found himself in Imperial Burgundy against Henry II. At the battle of Bar-le-Duc, Odo was killed in battle in the year 1037. His lands and properties were divided amongst his sons, ending a threat against the Capetian monarchy.\n\nHenry I had managed to maintain his royal title and dignity, but the price was great. The greatest problem to have arisen from the crisis was the growth in independence of the lords and castellans in the lands of the royal demesne. This had the effect of weakening royal authority even further. Secondly, Henry I lost a great deal of territory and land in suppressing the revolt. The French Vexin was granted away to the duke of Normandy, the duchy of Burgundy, a substantial part of the royal demesne, was given away to Robert, the king’s younger brother.\n\nAn appanage is a fief conceded to a younger son or a younger brother of the king. In France, the origin of the appanage can be found either in the old Frankish custom of dividing the inheritance between the sons (a custom which feudalism replaced with the \"partage noble\" in which the eldest son received most of the estates); or in the fact that, at its origins, the Capetian monarchy was relatively weak, and the principle of succession by the eldest son was not secure until the late 12th century.\n\nThe first such appanage in the history of the Capetian monarchy was the duchy of Burgundy, which Henry I ceded to his younger brother Robert. Later, Louis VII gave Dreux to his son Robert, in 1137, Philip Augustus gave Domfront and Mortain to his younger son Philip Hurepel (who had also become count of Boulogne by marriage). The last two cases were not under the same kind of duress, but probably reflect the same desire to ward off quarrels.\n\nThe original appanages, just like other feudal fiefs, could pass through the female line. As the monarchy became more powerful, they began to restrict the transmission of appanages in the male line, although this did not become standard for some time. The greatest example is the Duchy of Burgundy, which may have been illegally confiscated by Louis XI after the death of the last male duke. After Burgundy, the restriction to male heirs became standard (it is mentioned in an ordinance of Charles V in 1374), but was not formalized until the Edict of Moulins in 1566.\n\nThe Capetians also conceded fiefs to daughters or sisters in the form of dowry, although this practice became less and less common over time.\n\nThe Salic Law (Lex Salica) is a code of law written around the time of Clovis I for the Salian Franks, in Latin mixed with Germanic words. It deals mainly with monetary compensations (wehrgeld) and also with civil law with respect to men and land. Clause 6 in title 59, which deals with inheritance rules for allodial lands (i.e. family lands not held in benefice) specifies that in \"concerning salic lands (terra Salica) no portion or inheritance is for a woman but all the land belongs to members of the male sex who are brothers.\" A capitulary of Chilperic, ca. 575, expands this by admitting inheritance by a daughter in the absence of sons: \"if a man had neighbors but after his death sons and daughters remained, as long as there were sons they should have the land just as the Salic Law provides. And if the sons are already dead then a daughter may receive the land just as the sons would have done had they lived.\" The monarchy is nowhere mentioned. The Salic Law was reformulated under Charlemagne and still applied in the 9th century, but it slowly disappeared as it became incorporated into local common laws. By the 14th century it was completely forgotten.\n\nFrom 987 to 1316, every king of France was fortunate to have a son to succeed him. This state of affairs lasted over three hundred years, spanning 13 generations. The Capetians did not even have to deal with the question of successional representation; Hugh Magnus, eldest son of Robert II, and Philip, eldest son of Louis VI, did not leave behind children of their own when they predeceased their respective fathers. Thus, for such a long time, the succession to the throne was undisputed, so that there was no reason for the peers of the realm to elect a new king. Since 987, the Capetians had always passed the crown to their eldest surviving son, and this birthright became itself a source of unquestionable legitimacy. Louis VIII was the last king acclaimed before the sacred unction (last remnant of the original election). From St. Louis, in 1226, King was acclaimed after the anointing. The voice of the barons was no longer necessary in determining the king.\n\nPhilip the Fair was not concerned about the lack of male heirs. He had three sons, well married, and a daughter, Isabella of France, Queen of England by her marriage to Edward II of England. The eldest son, Louis the Quarrelsome, was King of Navarre and Count of Champagne since the death of his mother. He would, at the death of his father, become King of France and Navarre. His wife, Margaret of Burgundy had given him a daughter, but she was young and he could expect her to give him a son later. As for his two other sons, Philip, Count of Poitiers and Charles, Count of La Marche, they had married the two daughters of Otto IV, Count of Burgundy and Mahaut, Countess of Artois, Joan and Blanche. The king could believe his succession was assured.\n\nEverything collapsed in the spring of 1314, when the affairs of the daughters-in-law of the king were discovered (also known as the Tour de Nesle Affair). Somewhat neglected by their husbands, the princesses entertained themselves without them. The lover of Margaret of Burgundy was a young knight named Gauthier d'Aunay. Gautier's brother, Philippe d'Aunay, was meanwhile Blanche's lover. Without participating in the adventures of her sister and her sister-in-law, Joan knew everything and kept silent. Royal reaction was brutal. The Aunay brothers were tried and executed summarily; Margaret of Burgundy died of cold in the tower of Chateau Gaillard; Blanche of Burgundy was imprisoned for ten years before ending her days in Maubuisson Abbey, near Pontoise.\n\nThe dynastic succession was jeopardized. Margaret's death would allow Louis to remarry. But for the summer of 1314, the future king of France had no wife and no son. He only had a daughter, Joan, who could not be denied the inheritance of Navarre (which allowed female inheritance). This girl was suspected of illegitimacy, because of her mother's adultery with Gauthier d'Aunay, which could be dangerous for the crown of France, given the risk of particularly serious political crises because of suspicions of illegitimacy. Any rebellious vassal, to legitimize his rebellion, could accuse the future queen of bastardy.\n\nLouis X died on June 5, 1316, having just had time to marry again, after a reign of eighteen months, leaving his new wife Clementia of Hungary pregnant. Philip of Poitiers was at Lyon at the day of the death of his brother. The prince took the regency of both France and Navarre. Joan's claim was supported by her maternal grandmother, Agnes of France, and her uncle, Odo IV, Duke of Burgundy. The arguments they invoked in favor of Joan were in full conformity with feudal law which has always authorized a daughter to succeed to the fief in the absence of sons. Indeed, female succession was a reality in France. Aquitaine had been ruled by a duchess, Eleanor, and countesses had ruled Toulouse and Champagne, as well as in Flanders and Artois. Mahaut, Countess of Artois, belonged to the Court of Peers since 1302. Outside the realm, women have played a role in the devolution of the English crown as well as the crown of the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem. And Joan I of Navarre had brought her kingdom of Navarre to her husband Philip the Fair. The idea that a woman would become queen of France was in itself nothing shocking to the barons. Indeed, at the death of Louis VIII, the kingdom was governed by a woman — Blanche of Castile — regent in the name of her young son Louis IX.\n\nThe regent made a treaty with the Duke of Burgundy. It was agreed that if Queen Clementia of Hungary gave birth to a son, Philip will maintain the regency until his nephew's majority. In the event that the queen gave birth to a daughter, Philip undertook to renounce Navarre and Champagne in favor of the princesses, if they renounced the crown of France at the age of consent. If not, their claim was to remain, and \"right was to be done to them therein\"; but Philip would no longer renounce Navarre and Champagne.\n\nOn November 15, 1316, Queen Clementia gave birth to a son, John the Posthumous. Unfortunately, the child lived only five days, and the kingdom remained without a direct heir. By his treaty with the Duke of Burgundy, Philip would only rule the two kingdoms as regent or governor, until Joan reached the age of consent. But Philip had himself crowned at Rheims, on January 9, 1317. Opposed by the Duke of Burgundy, and his own brother, Charles, Count of La Marche, it was thought prudent to shut the gates of the town during the ceremony. Back at Paris, an assembly of prelates, barons and burgesses acknowledged Philip as their sovereign, and asserted that \"women do not succeed to the French throne.\"\n\nThe Duke of Burgundy championed his niece's rights. Philip won him over by giving him his daughter, Joan of France, with the promise of the counties of Artois and Burgundy. The princess Joan, daughter of Louis X, was given an annuity of 15,000 pounds. In return, Joan of Navarre must, at her twelfth year, ratify the treaty which disinherited her, not only of her claim to France, but also of her unquestionable right to Navarre and Champagne.\n\nIn 1322, Philip V the Tall died after a reign of six years. He left only daughters. Thus, his younger brother, Charles of La Marche, would become king under the name of Charles IV the Fair. Despite two successive marriages with Marie of Luxembourg and Joan of Évreux, Charles the Fair, as his brother Philip the Tall, left only daughters when he died in 1328. Thus, in less than fourteen years, the three sons of Philip the Fair, Louis X the Quarrelsome, Philip V the Tall and Charles IV the Fair, had died.\n\nHowever, like his brother Louis X, Charles IV the Fair left his wife pregnant. Before dying, the youngest son of Philip the Fair designated as regent his cousin, Philip of Valois. He was the eldest son of Charles of Valois, brother of Philip the Fair. A few months later, Queen Joan of Évreux gave birth to a daughter, Blanche. Philip of Valois, a grown man and prominent lord, had no trouble being proclaimed king by another assembly of lords and prelates in Vincennes and crowned on May 29, 1328.\n\nKing Charles IV is no longer. He has no male descendants. He is the youngest son of Philip the Fair. The situation in 1328 is unlike that of 1316. In 1316, a king's son was competing with a brother and a younger child. In 1328, Philip of Valois is not the closest in the line, or the more direct, because the last Capetians girls left now have husbands. But the Count of Valois was the closest male relative in the male line, and he is 35 years old. He is the eldest male of the family.\n\n\nWhile the peers of France deliberate which of these two powerful lords will ascend the throne, a letter arrived from across the Channel. In this letter, Isabella claimed the crown of France for her young son Edward III, King of England, and he would be regarded as the third contender:\n\n\nThe peers and the lawyers are studying this question: can Isabella of France transmit a right she does not have? Can her son Edward claim the crown of the Capetians?\n\nIsabella of France had a horrible reputation. Nicknamed the \"She-Wolf of France\", she joined the English nobles against her husband, King Edward II, who was defeated and captured. After putting her husband to death, she displayed herself in public with her lover, the regicide Roger Mortimer. All of this was well known in France. Also, her son Edward III belonged to the House of Plantagenet, a dynasty that had long been in conflict with the French crown.\n\nBut Isabella's reasoning was flawed by a detail as it were negligible: if, as a woman, Isabella could transfer that right to the crown although she cannot have it for herself, then by primogeniture the true heir would have been Philip of Burgundy, a grandson of Philip V of France. Isabella of France may have simply forgotten that her brothers had left daughters of their own.\n\nHowever, no one thought of nominating one of the daughters of three kings; to do so would recognize the right of women to the throne, and would be de facto considering the reigns of Philip V the Tall and Charles IV the Fair as nothing but a theft at the expense of Joan of France, daughter Louis X the Stubborn. Nor did they nominate the young Philip of Burgundy, the senior living male heir of Philip IV.\n\nThe peers did not want to risk giving the throne to a bastard. And, instead of proposing a daughter of Philip V or Charles IV, they decided that women should be excluded from succession to avoid endless squabbles of law.\n\nThe famous Salic law will be rediscovered in 1358, to be used in a propaganda fight to defend the rights of Valois against the claims of the English king. Thus, whatever the legal twist, the rights of Edward III were very questionable.\n\nThe day after the funeral of Charles IV of France, the great nobles convened. Valois has already taken the title of regent, and used it already, while his cousin was dying. The assembly can only bow to the facts. Having postponed for a moment the question of the legitimacy of excluding women from succession, the will to rule out the English king was stronger. Edward III was thus ousted from the competition, but there remained two claimants to the throne, Philip of Valois and Philip of Évreux.\n\nAn agreement was reached to satisfy everyone. Philip of Évreux and his wife Joan received the kingdom of Navarre and other territorial compensation in exchange for which they would recognize Philip of Valois as King of France.\n\nThe kingdom of Navarre belonged to the King of France since the marriage of Philip IV and Joan I of Navarre, Countess of Champagne and Brie. Louis X had inherited Navarre from his mother and in 1328 his daughter Joan was finally recognized as Queen of Navarre, despite the suspicions of illegitimacy (the late return was not in the least prevented Philip the Tall and Charles the Fair, who officially called themselves Kings of France and Navarre). In addition, Philip of Valois, not being himself a descendant and heir of the kings of Navarre as were his predecessors, could restore the kingdom of Navarre without regret to Joan, the rightful heir, in exchange for her giving up the crown of France. The kingdom of Navarre will not return to the kings of France until much later, when Henry of Navarre, the future Henry IV, accedes to the throne of France, thus establishing the Bourbon dynasty. Thereafter, the French kings will again bear the title \"King of France and Navarre.\"\n\nSoon after, Philip of Valois was proclaimed King of France under the name of Philip VI of France by the peers of the realm. The Valois took power following the direct Capetians.\n\nThe last royal election dates back to Louis VIII the Lion in 1223. The royal power was weakened and so was the legitimacy of the Count of Valois, for it was not as unassailable as that of his predecessors on the throne. They were expecting their generous gifts, great concessions from the new king. Edward III came to pay tribute to French king, hoping also for some territorial compensation. Philip VI did not understand the danger that threatened him and did nothing to protect himself.\n\nThe succession to Charles IV the Fair, decided in favor of Philip VI, was used as a pretext by Edward III to transform what would have been a feudal struggle between himself as Duke of Guyenne against the King of France, to a dynastic struggle between the House of Plantagenet and the House of Valois for control of the French throne.\n\nThe conflict, known as the Hundred Years War, dragged on for decades. England won several famous military victories, but was unable to fully overcome French resistance. Yet in the aftermath of the Battle of Agincourt, Henry V of England, great-grandson of Edward III, became the heir to the French throne in accordance to the Treaty of Troyes. He would marry Catherine, daughter of King Charles VI of France, while Charles' son, the Dauphin Charles was declared illegitimate and disinherited.\n\nYet Henry V would predecease Charles VI, and it was his infant son who would become \"King of France\". The Dauphin still had his supporters, and became Charles VII. Eventually, the tide would turn in favor of the French, and the English were driven out. The Treaty of Troyes, which had been ratified by the Estates-General of France, was never repudiated, but the military victory of Charles VII rendered its provisions moot. The Kings of England would thereby continue to call themselves \"Kings of England and France\", dropping the nominal claim to France only in 1800.\n\nThus emerged the principle of the unavailability of the crown — no person or body could divert the succession from the lawful heir. The throne would pass by the sheer force of custom, not by the testament of the king, or by any edict, decree, or treaty, or by the generosity of any person. By this principle, the French do not consider Henry VI of England as a legitimate king of France.\n\nThe House of Valois had secured the principle of agnatic succession following their victory in the Hundred Years War. When the senior line of the Valois became extinct, they were followed by the Valois-Orléans line descended from Louis I, Duke of Orléans, younger brother of Charles VI, and then, by the Valois-Angoulême line descended from a younger son of Louis I.\n\nHenry II of France was succeeded by his sons, none of whom would succeed in producing a male heir. The sons of Henry II would be the last heirs male of Philip III of France. Right after them ranked the Bourbons, descended from a younger brother of Philip III.\n\nThus, with the death of François, Duke of Anjou, younger brother of King Henry III of France, the heir presumptive became the Head of the House of Bourbon, Henry III, King of Navarre. Since Henry was a Protestant, most of Catholic France found him unacceptable. By the Treaty of Nemours, the Catholic League attempted to disinherit the King of Navarre by recognizing Charles, Cardinal de Bourbon, Navarre's uncle, as heir. Navarre had been excommunicated by Pope Sixtus V.\n\nOn his deathbed, Henry III called for Henry of Navarre, and begged him, in the name of Statecraft, to become a Catholic, citing the brutal warfare that would ensue if he refused. In keeping with Salic law, he named Navarre as his heir.\n\nOn Henry III's death in 1589, the League proclaimed the Cardinal de Bourbon king, while he was still a prisoner of Henry III in the castle of Chinon. He was recognized as Charles X by the Parliament of Paris on 21 November 1589. With Henry III's death, custody of the Cardinal fell to Navarre (now Henry IV of France), the Cardinal's nephew. When the old Cardinal died in 1590, the League could not agree on a new candidate. The Catholic League had great hopes for Charles, Duke of Guise, whom they considered to elect as king. However, the Duke of Guise declared his support for Henry IV of France in 1594, for which Henry paid him four million livres and made him Governor of Provence. Some supported Infanta Isabella Clara Eugenia of Spain, the daughter of Philip II of Spain and Elisabeth of France, eldest daughter of Henry II of France. The prominence of her candidacy hurt the League, which became suspect as agents of the Spanish.\n\nFor a time, Henry IV attempted to take his kingdom by conquest. For this, he had to capture Paris, which was defended by the Catholic League and the Spanish. Despite the campaigns between 1590 and 1592, Henry IV was \"no closer to capturing Paris\". Realizing that Henry III had been right and that there was no prospect of a Protestant king succeeding in resolutely Catholic Paris, Henry agreed to convert, reputedly stating \"Paris vaut bien une messe\" (\"Paris is well worth a Mass\"). He was formally received into the Catholic Church in 1593, and was crowned at Chartres in 1594 as League members maintained control of the Cathedral of Rheims, and, skeptical of Henry's sincerity, continued to oppose him. He was finally received into Paris in March 1594, and 120 League members in the city who refused to submit were banished from the capital. Paris' capitulation encouraged the same of many other towns, while others returned to support the crown after Pope Clement VIII absolved Henry, revoking his excommunication in return for the publishing of the Tridentine Decrees, the restoration of Catholicism in Béarn, and appointing only Catholics to high office.\n\nWith the success of Henry IV, the principles of the French succession were kept inviolable. The kingship of Charles, Cardinal de Bourbon, as Charles X, was delegitimized, having been contrary to these principles. A new requirement to the French succession was recognized: the King of France must be Catholic. Yet since religion could be changed, it could not be the basis for permanent exclusion from the throne.\n\nLouis XIV, grandson of Henry IV, was the longest-reigning king in European history. Louis XIV had only one son to survive to adulthood, the Dauphin Louis. The Dauphin, in turn, had three sons: Louis, Duke of Burgundy, Philip, Duke of Anjou, and Charles, Duke of Berry.\n\nIn 1700, Charles II of Spain died. His heir, in accordance to cognatic primogeniture followed in Spain, would have been the Dauphin Louis. However, since the Dauphin was the heir to the French throne, and the Duke of Burgundy was in turn the Dauphin's heir, Charles II settled his succession on the Duke of Anjou in order to prevent the union of France and Spain.\n\nMost European rulers accepted Philip as King of Spain, though some only reluctantly. Louis XIV confirmed that Philip V retained his French rights despite his new Spanish position. Admittedly, he may only have been hypothesizing a theoretical eventuality and not attempting a Franco-Spanish union. However, Louis also sent troops to the Spanish Netherlands, evicting Dutch garrisons and securing Dutch recognition of Philip V. In 1701, he transferred the asiento to France, alienating English traders. He also acknowledged James Stuart, James II's son, as king on the latter's death. These actions enraged Britain and the United Provinces. Consequently, with the Emperor and the petty German states, they formed another Grand Alliance, declaring war on France in 1702. French diplomacy, however, secured Bavaria, Portugal and Savoy as Franco-Spanish allies.\n\nThus, the War of the Spanish Succession began. The war, over a decade long, was concluded by the treaties of Utrecht (1713) and Rastatt (1714). The allies were bent on removing Philip V from the succession to the French throne; he only agreed to this after the semi-Salic law was successfully enacted in Spain.\n\nHowever, the fact remained that the Treaty of Utrecht had disregarded the French principles of succession. Indeed, taking advantage of the power vacuum caused by Louis XIV's death in 1715, Philip announced he would claim the French crown if the infant Louis XV died.\n\nThe validity of the renunciations were not debated in public until the French Revolution, when the National Assembly first addressed this issue in a three-day session beginning on 15 September 1789. After many debates, the Assembly voted on a final text of a statement defining the succession to the Crown. This read: \"The crown is hereditary from male to male, by order of primogeniture, with the absolute exclusion of women and their descendants, without prejudging the effect of renunciations\". The Spanish Ambassador, the Count of Fernan Nuñez wrote to the Spanish Prime Minister, the Count of Floridablanca, that same date: \"All the clergy and the major part of the nobility and also of the Third Estate has pronounced for the resolution favorable to the House of Spain… by 698 votes to 265 the majority had concluded the question in a sense again most advantageous for us...\"\n\nIn 1791 the French National Assembly drew up a new, written Constitution to which the King gave his assent, and which governed France for the last year of the 18th century monarchy. For the first time it was necessary to define formally, as a matter of statutory constitutional law, the system of succession, and the titles, privileges and prerogatives of the Crown. In debating the succession to the Crown the contemporary understanding of the law of succession was publicly clarified. It rebutted the assertion by some that the claim by the Spanish line is a late construct, made to satisfy the ambitions of princes deprived of other claims. Indeed, it is evident that the issue of the rights of the Spanish line to the French crown remained an important constitutional issue.\n\nWhen the issue of the rights of the Spanish line arose, the Assembly voted to include a phrase in the article on the succession that implicitly protected their rights. That this was the purpose of the clause seems certain: hence the phrase in Title III, Chapter II, article I: \n\nLouis XV had ten legitimate children, but there were only two sons, only one of whom survived to adulthood, Louis, Dauphin of France. This did not help dispel the concerns about the future of the dynasty; should his male line fail, the succession would be disputed by a possible war of succession between the descendants of Philip V and the House of Orléans descended from the younger brother of Louis XIV.\n\nThe Dauphin Louis predeceased his father but left behind three sons, Louis Auguste, Duke of Berry, Louis Stanislas, Count of Provence and Charles Philippe, Count of Artois. The Duke of Berry succeeded his grandfather as King Louis XVI.\n\nLouis XVI would be the only French king to be executed, during the French Revolution. For the first time, the Capetian monarchy had been overthrown. The monarchy would be restored under his younger brother, the Count of Provence, who took the name Louis XVIII in consideration of the dynastic seniority of his nephew, Louis, from 1793-1795 (the child never actually reigned). Louis XVIII died childless and was succeeded by his younger brother, the Count of Artois, as Charles X.\n\nCompelled by what he felt to be a growing, manipulative radicalism in the elected government, Charles felt that his primary duty was the guarantee of order and happiness in France and its people; not in political bipartisanship and the self-interpreted rights of implacable political enemies. He issued the Four Ordinances of Saint-Cloud, which was intended to quell the people of France. However, the ordinances had the opposite effect of angering the French citizens. In Paris, a committee of the liberal opposition had drawn up and signed a petition in which, they asked for the ordonnances to be withdrawn; more surprising was their criticism \"not of the King, but his ministers\" – thereby disproving Charles X's conviction that his liberal opponents were enemies of his dynasty. Charles X considered the ordonnances vital to the safety and dignity of the French throne. Thus, he did not withdraw the ordonnances. This resulted in the July Revolution.\n\nCharles X abdicated in favor of his 10-year-old grandson, Henri, Duke of Bordeaux, (forcing his son Louis Antoine to renounce his rights along the way) and naming Louis Philippe III, Duke of Orléans Lieutenant General of the Kingdom, charging him to announce to the popularly elected Chamber of Deputies his desire to have his grandson succeed him. Louis Philippe did not do this, in order to increase his own chances of succession. As a consequence, because the chamber was aware of Louis Philippe's liberal policies and of his popularity with the masses, they proclaimed Louis Philippe, who for eleven days had been acting as the regent for his small cousin, as the new French king, displacing the senior branch of the House of Bourbon.\n\nThe House of Orléans took the throne in defiance of the principles of the Capetian monarchy, and could be viewed as a separate institution altogether.\n\nUpon his accession to the throne, Louis Philippe assumed the title of King of the French – a title already adopted by Louis XVI in the short-lived Constitution of 1791. Linking the monarchy to a people instead of a territory (as the previous designation King of France and of Navarre) was aimed at undercutting the legitimist claims of Charles X and his family.\n\nBy an ordinance he signed on 13 August 1830, the new king defined the manner in which his children, as well as his sister, would continue to bear the surname \"d'Orléans\" and the arms of Orléans, declared that his eldest son, as Prince Royal (not Dauphin), would bear the title Duke of Orléans, that the younger sons would continue to have their previous titles, and that his sister and daughters would only be styled Princesses of Orléans, not of France.\n\nThe government of Louis Philippe grew increasingly conservative over the years. After ruling for 18 years, the 1848 wave of revolutions reached France and overthrew Louis Philippe. The king abdicated in favor of his nine-year-old grandson, Philippe, Count of Paris. The National Assembly initially planned to accept young Philippe as king, but the strong current of public opinion rejected that. On 26 February, the Second Republic was proclaimed.\n\nNapoléon Bonaparte (1769-1821) came to power by a military coup on Nov 10, 1799. The regime he put in place was headed by three Consuls, and he was the First Consul. He became Consul for Life in 1802, and then transformed the regime into a hereditary monarchy in 1804. The rules of succession as set down in the constitution are:\n\nAt the time the law of succession was decreed Napoleon I had no legitimate sons, and it seemed unlikely he would have any due to the age of his wife, Josephine of Beauharnais. His eventual response was an unacceptable one, in the eyes of Catholic France, of engineering a dubious annulment, without papal approval, of his marriage to Josephine and undertaking a second marriage to the younger Mary Louise of Austria, with whom he had one son, Napoleon, King of Rome, also as Napoleon II and the Duke of Reichstadt. He was not married and had no children, thus leaving no further direct descendants of Napoleon I.\n\nThe law was proclaimed on May 20, 1804. No contradiction was seen between France being a Republic and it being governed by an Emperor. Indeed, until 1809, French coins bore \"République Française\" on one side and \"Napoléon Empereur\" on the other, pursuant to a decree of June 26, 1804; the legend on the reverse was replaced by \"Empire français\" by decree of October 22, 1808). This was a return to the Roman use of the word Emperor (Augustus was officially only the First Citizen, rather than monarch, of the Roman Republic).\n\nIn 1852, Napoleon III, having restored the Bonapartes to power in France, enacted a new decree on the succession. The claim first went to his own male legitimate descendants in the male line.\n\nIf his own direct line died out, the new decree allowed the claim to pass to Jérôme Bonaparte, Napoleon I's youngest brother who had previously been excluded, and his male descendants by Princess Catharina of Württemberg in the male line. His descendants by his original marriage to the American commoner Elizabeth Patterson, of which Napoleon I had greatly disapproved, were excluded.\n\nThe only remaining Bonapartist claimants since 1879, and today, have been descendants of Jérôme Bonaparte and Catherina of Württemberg in the male line.\n\nIn 1870, royalists became the majority in the National Assembly. There were two claimants to the French royal legacy: Henri d'Artois, Count of Chambord, and Philippe d'Orléans, Count of Paris. The former were supported by the Legitimists, supporters of the elder line of the Bourbons, and the Orléanists, liberal constitutional monarchists that had supported Louis Philippe and his line. Since the Count of Chambord was childless, and was expected to remain so, the Orléans line agreed to support the Count of Chambord.\n\nRaised however, by his grandfather Charles X of France, as if the Revolution never happened, the Count of Chambord insisted that he would only take the crown if France would abandon the tricolour flag in favor of the white fleur de lys flag. He refused to compromise this point, which upset the restoration of the monarchy. The Orléans did not oppose him, and did not make an immediate claim to the throne while the Count of Chambord lived. The Count of Chambord lived, however, longer than expected. At the time of his death, the impetus behind the monarchical restoration had been lost.\n\nThus, after the death of the Count of Chambord, the Orléans line had two distinct claims to the throne of France: the right derived from Orléanist theory, as heirs of Louis Philippe; and the right derived from Legitimist theory, as heirs of Hugh Capet.\n\nThe death of the Count of Chambord split the Legitimists in two camps. Most acknowledged the House of Orléans as the new royal house. Yet a party, with a hatred for that house, recognized the Carlists of Spain, then the eldest descendants of Philip V of Spain. The Orléanist party derisively called them the Blancs d'Espagne (Spanish Whites), for having supported a Spanish prince over a French prince. In later times the Orléanist and Legitimist claims of the House of Orléans was merged into the name of Orléanist, as the pro-Spanish party assumed the name of Legitimists.\n\nThe unacceptability of the House of Orléans to the Blancs d'Espagne stems from the actions of two ancestors of that house — Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, also known as Philippe Egalite, and his son Louis Philippe, later King of the French. According to Charles Dumoulin, a French jurist of the sixteenth century, treason is one case wherein a person of the royal blood could be deprived of his succession to the throne. Philippe Egalite had voted for the abolition of the monarchy, the guilt of Louis XVI of France, and the death sentence for that unhappy monarch. His son, Louis Philippe, restored in royal favor following the Bourbon Restoration, appointed lieutenant-general of the kingdom during the final days of the reign of Charles X of France, overthrew the senior line by accepting kingship for himself.\n\nThe Legitimist stand is that the succession to the throne is based on customs and precedents thereafter unalterable. The heir to the throne, according to those customs, is the heir of Louis XIV, who cannot be excluded. The Orléanist stand is that the laws of succession could be altered, and that among those customs and precedents is the requirement that the heir must be French. The heir to the throne, according to them, is the Orléans line, since not one of Philip V's descendants was French when the succession opened in 1883.\n\nIn the Treaty of Utrecht, Philip V of Spain renounced his right of succession to the French throne on the condition that the semi-Salic law of succession should be instituted in Spain. For Legitimists the treaty is void ab initio, since the succession law cannot be altered in this way. Further, assuming arguendo that the treaty is valid, the repeal of semi-Salic law in Spain had broken the condition of the renunciation; the purpose of the treaty — the separation of the crowns of France and Spain — has been served, since the King of Spain is not the heir to France. For Orléanists the treaty is a valid alteration to the French law of succession. Further, Louis Philippe was the last official \"First Prince of the Blood\", who were, by tradition, immediate heir to the throne after the royal family itself.\n\nThe second point of contention between the Legitimists and the Orléanists is the nationality requirement. For Orléanists, foreign-born heirs forfeit their right of succession to estates in France by the law of aubain. Foreigners include, apart from the usual definition, those Frenchmen who left \"without intent of returning.\" They also cite the opinion of Charles Dumoulin, a French jurist of the sixteenth century: \nCommon sense requires that princes of the blood who have become foreigners be excluded from the throne just as the male descendants of princesses. The exclusion of both is in the spirit of the fundamental custom, which overlooks the royal blood in princesses only to prevent the scepter from falling in foreign hands.\nFor this reason, Orléanists also exclude the Orléans-Braganza (Brazilians) and Orléans-Galliera (Spanish), junior descendants of Louis Philippe, King of the French, from the succession to the French throne.\n\nLegitimists and Orléanists cite numerous examples and counter-examples of foreigners included and excluded in the French line of succession. There is no clear precedent on whether foreigners ought to be included or excluded. But in 1573, the Duke of Anjou, the future Henry III of France, who was elected King of Poland, had been assured by letters patent that his rights to the French throne would not lapse, nor those of any children he may have, even though they were to be born outside France. Similar letters patent were issued for Philip V of Spain, but later withdrawn. In these instances, the French court had shown themselves ready to recognize that the Capetian blood right overcame the law of aubain. For Orléanists, the function of the letters patent was to preserve the French nationality of Philip V and his descendants, and with those letters patent withdrawn, they ceased to be French.\n\n"}
{"id": "5074867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074867", "title": "Tagbu people", "text": "Tagbu people\n\nTagbu is an ethnic group in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Sudan. They speak Tagbu, a Ubangian language. Tagbu speakers were estimated to number 17,000 in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "5382662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5382662", "title": "Talpur dynasty", "text": "Talpur dynasty\n\nThe Talpur dynasty () () was a dynasty of the Talpur tribe that conquered and ruled Sindh, and other parts of present-day Pakistan, from 1783 to 1843. The Talpur army defeated the Kalhora Dynasty in the Battle of Halani in 1783 to become rulers of Sindh. The Talpur dynasty was defeated by the British invaders in 1843 at the Battle of Miani.\n"}
{"id": "20212940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20212940", "title": "The Contender (Lipsyte novel)", "text": "The Contender (Lipsyte novel)\n\nThe Contender is the debut novel by American author and sports journalist Robert Lipsyte. It was published in 1967.\n\nThe book's plot centers on a black seventeen-year-old man named Alfred Brooks, a high school dropout living with Aunt Pearl and her three daughters in Harlem, New York City. He begins training at a boxing club as an alternative to drugs and gang membership. The novel follows Alfred as his friend James is arrested after robbing the grocery store where Alfred works, and his confrontations with Major, the leader of the local gang, who is responsible for James' drug addiction. Alfred, through a series of related events, learns that life is about more than fighting and winning; it is about being a contender.\n\n\nThemes explored in this novel include issues of socio-economic stance, racism, and fighting for your goals and what you believe in. It also focuses on positive character development and peer pressure.\n\n\"Before you can be a champion, you have to be a contender.\"\n"}
{"id": "58733747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58733747", "title": "The Twenty Days of Turin", "text": "The Twenty Days of Turin\n\nThe Twenty Days of Turin is a 1975 novel by Italian writer and musician Giorgio de Maria. Ramon Glazov translated the book into English in 2016. It concerns a man in Turin who chooses to investigate a series of unexplained, violent of events that occurred a decade earlier.\n\nIt has been referred to as \"remarkably prescient\" and has garnered comparisons to the works of H.P. Lovecraft and Thomas Pynchon.\n"}
{"id": "5802113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5802113", "title": "Vasilis Papageorgopoulos", "text": "Vasilis Papageorgopoulos\n\nVasilis Papageorgopoulos (; born June 27, 1947) is a retired Greek sprinter, former mayor of Thessaloniki. He won two medals at the European Indoor Championships as well as the bronze medal in the 100 metres at the 1971 European Championships in Athletics.\n\nPapageorgopoulos' personal best in 100 metres was 10.22 seconds, achieved in August 1972 in Izmir. This ranks him twelfth among Greek 100 metre sprinters. He also studied medicine.\n\nPapageorgopoulos first got involved in politics in 1978 when he was elected City councilor of Thessaloniki. He practiced dentistry until 1981, when he was elected as a member of the Greek Parliament, representing Thessaloniki, for the Conservative New Democracy party . Papageorgopoulos has been, from 1 January 1999 to 31 December 2010, the mayor of Thessaloniki.\n\nIn April 2011, he was among 25 people contacted by an investigating magistrate with a probe into alleged embezzlement of 51.4 million euros at the municipality. He was also accused by his successor Yiannis Boutaris of providing inaccurate financial figures. In February 2013, he was found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment for embezzling of 17.9 million euro at the Municipality of Thessaloniki while he was mayor. In July 2014, the sentence was reduced to a maximum of 20 years after an appeals court in Thessaloniki ruled that Papageorgopoulos's crimes amouned to acting as \"accessory to the stealing of municipal funds while in office.”\nIn July 2015 Papageorgopouloss parole due to health problems.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23015195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23015195", "title": "Visión Ovni", "text": "Visión Ovni\n\nVision Ovni, founded in 1991, is an Argentine national UFO research organisation.\n\nDuring mid-1991 Vision Ovni started its operations at Victoria, Entre Rios city. The Argentine press started reporting sightings of strange lights coming from Laguna del Pescado lake. Many people saw this phenomenon, and national TV recorded the phenomena which have not yet been studied in detail by universities or UFO researchers. Press coverage of UFO sightings was high during the 1990s to nowadays.\n\nSmall groups existed in several of Argentina's cities but no one resided in Victoria until Vision Ovni was formed. During the 1970s, Argentine army scanned Laguna del Pescado bottom lake in search of strange phenomena. Most were convinced that strange lights resided there.\n\nIn 2009 Vision Ovni and many others UFO researchers formed Cefora, an Argentine organization to study the UFO Phenomena in detail. Silvia Simondini and many others started collecting signs to obtain Argentine UFO declassification archives.\n\nThe objectives of Vision Ovni are:\n\n"}
{"id": "888187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=888187", "title": "War chest", "text": "War chest\n\nA war chest is a metaphor for any collection of tools or money intended to be used in a challenging or dangerous situation. Historically, it referred to the chest located in the homes or barracks of soldiers, in which the soldier kept arms and armor. In the modern era, it more often refers to a collection of funds (or less occasionally special tools or equipment) intended to allow a person or organization to get through a situation that requires much more readiness or money than usual.\n\nIn arms and armor, a war chest is a container for the personal weapons and protective gear of a citizen-soldier, kept in the household, and is the origin of the term. The term's modern meaning originates with the medieval practice of having a chest, literally, filled with money to open in time of war.\n\nIn politics, a war chest is funding obtained from donors well in advance of a campaign, usually accumulated by an incumbent for either re-election or to contest a more advanced office, or provided by a wealthy candidate to their own campaign. The possession of such excess funds may discourage otherwise viable candidates from a primary or general election challenge.\n\nIn business a war chest, or cash mountain is a stash of money set aside to deal with unexpected changes in the business environment, or to use when expansion possibilities arise.\n\nToday companies can use accumulated cash or rely on quickly raised debt which costs less to carry when you don't need it. This is not always a reasonable substitute, as the credit available to a company typically drops as a result of the same actions that require the war chest to be opened.\n\nCompanies can redistribute their war chests to shareholders by issuing larger or special dividends, or more commonly through share buyback operations. Companies do this because if actually held in cash, the companies will be earning a low rate of return in the money markets, whereas they could be using the funds to invest in more profitable projects. If they continue not to invest the funds, shareholders may sell the company's shares and make it vulnerable to a takeover. This would place the current management's jobs at risk.\n\nIn Association football it refers to the amount of money a manager has been given by a club's chairman, owner or investors to acquire new players, as in the newspaper headline, \"Defoe and Brown top Keegan wishlist as Ashley grants £25m war chest\".\n\nSimilar terms are also referred to as surplus cash, cash reserves, emergency reserves, acquisition funds, rainy day funds, or undistributed earnings within different contexts.\n"}
{"id": "1118591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118591", "title": "Wawasan 2020", "text": "Wawasan 2020\n\nWawasan 2020 (Jawi: واوسن ٢٠٢٠) or Vision 2020 is a Malaysian ideal introduced by the current Prime Minister of Malaysia, Mahathir Mohamad during the tabling of the Sixth Malaysia Plan in 1991. The vision calls for the nation to achieve a self-sufficient industrialised nation by the year 2020, encompasses all aspects of life, from economic prosperity, social well-being, educational worldclass, political stability, as well as psychological balance. To achieve Vision 2020, Mahathir lamented that the nation required an annual growth of 7% (in real terms) over the thirty-year period 1990–2020, so that the economy would be eightfold stronger than its 1990 GDP of RM115 billion. This would translate to a GDP of RM920 billion (in 1990 Ringgit terms) in 2020.. Under Vision 2020 from 1991 to 2020, there are 3 sub 10 year development policy namely National development Policy 1991-2000 with OPP2, National Vision Policy 2001-2010 with OPP3 and New Economic Model 2011-2020 with National Transformation Programme NTP.\n\n\"Wawasan 2020\" is also the title of an article by William Greider about globalisation in Malaysia.\n\nMahathir outlined nine strategic challenges that Malaysia must overcome to achieve Vision 2020.\n\nWawasan 2020 is also a patriotic song on the same idea sung in Malay. The song was composed by Akbar Nawab.\n\nIn view of changing global conditions amid the financial crisis of 2007–2010, Ex Prime Minister Najib Razak had in August 2009, said that there was now a need to redefine and recalibrate the vision in terms of how to achieve it, as well as its timeline. Najib, who said that it was necessary for Malaysia to undertake bold economic reforms, had tasked the National Economic Advisory Council (NEAC) to carry out a review of the vision. The NEAC is expected to publish its report by end 2009, with a second report on implementation 6 months after that. Najib also said that in order for Malaysia to achieve a developed nation status by 2020, the country has to grow at an annual rate of 8% over the next 10 years. He cited that a lower hypothetical growth of 6% per annum would delay Malaysia's vision to become a developed country by 10 years to 2030. Malaysia’s GDP growth rate averaged 7.2% per annum in the 1990s, and slowed to 5.4% per annum in the following decade.\n\nIn 2018, Najib Razak launched the National Transformation 2050 (TN50), where by 2050 Malaysia will be \"a nation of calibre, with a new mindset\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18741865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18741865", "title": "Words Without Borders", "text": "Words Without Borders\n\nWords Without Borders (WWB) is an international magazine opened to international exchange through translation, publication, and promotion of the world’s best writing and authors who are not easily accessible to English-speaking readers.\n\n\"Words without Borders\" promotes cultural understanding through the translation, publication, and promotion of the finest contemporary international literature. It publishes a monthly magazine of literature in translation and organizes special events that connect foreign writers to the public; it also develops materials for high school and college teachers and provides an online resource center for contemporary global writing. Words without Borders is supported by the National Endowment for the Arts, the New York State Council on the Arts and the Lannan Foundation, among others. Words without Borders was founded by Alane Salierno Mason, translator of Elio Vittorini, in 1999 and began publication in 2003.\n\nDavid Orr, in \"The New York Times\", compliments the \"intelligence and idealism\" of WWB.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35233350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35233350", "title": "Yauna language", "text": "Yauna language\n\nYauna (Yahuna) is an extinct Tucanoan language of Colombia.\n"}
