{"id": "14738470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14738470", "title": "2003 Hawaii Bowl", "text": "2003 Hawaii Bowl\n\nThe 2003 Sheraton Hawaii Bowl was played on December 25, 2003, in Honolulu and matched the hometown Hawaii Warriors with the Houston Cougars. This was the second Hawaii Bowl, and the first time Hawaii and Houston played each other. The game was sponsored by Sheraton Hotels and Resorts.\n\nHouston scored first with a 34-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Kevin Kolb to wide receiver Chad McCullar. David Bell kicked a 21-yard field goal to increase Houston's lead to 10-0. Hawaii got its first points of the game at the end of the first quarter on a 19-yard field goal. In the second quarter, Timmy Chang found wide receiver Clifton Herbert for a 49-yard touchdown pass to make the score 10-10.\n\nRunning back Jackie Battle scored on a 2-yard touchdown run for Houston, as they increased their lead to 17-10. David Bell later kicked a field goal to increase the lead to 20-10. A Hawaii field goal before half time cut the lead to 20-13.\n\nIn the third quarter, running back Michael Brewster Jr. ran in for a touchdown tying the game at 20. Timmy Chang then threw a 7-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Jason Rivers, and Hawaii claimed its first lead of the game at 27-20. Jackie Battle scored on a 2-yard touchdown run and the score was 27-27. Jason Rivers caught a 4-yard touchdown pass to give Hawaii a 34-27 lead. In the fourth quarter, wide receiver Vincent Marshall caught an 81-yard touchdown pass to tie the game at 34. The game headed into overtime.\n\nIn overtime, Timmy Chang found Britton Komine for an 11-yard touchdown and a 41-34 Hawaii lead. Houston answered with an Anthony Evans touchdown run. After one overtime period the score was 41-41. On Houston's next possession, Jackie Battle got the handoff, and rushed 4 yards for a touchdown. The score was now 48-41 Houston. Jason Rivers tied it for Hawaii, by catching a 19-yard touchdown pass. In the third overtime period, Michael Brewster ran in for an 8-yard touchdown. The two-point conversion attempt failed leaving the score 54-48 Hawaii, and giving Houston a chance to win. Houston couldn't score, and that ended up being the final margin.\n\nThe game is also memorable for a fight between both teams that occurred after the game was over. Players from each team got into shouting matches and punches were thrown. Play-by-play announcer Dave Barnett called the ending sad and surprising.\n\n"}
{"id": "3657357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3657357", "title": "A-do", "text": "A-do\n\nDu Chengyi (), known professionally as A-do (阿杜), is a Singaporean singer . The ex-construction foreman was spotted by Singaporean producer Billy Koh in his company's talent search and was signed to Ocean Butterflies Music. He released his debut album in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "4028978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4028978", "title": "Abdallah ibn Sa'd", "text": "Abdallah ibn Sa'd\n\nʿAbdallāh ibn Saʿd ibn Abī Sarḥ; () was the milk brother of Uthman. His father was Sa'd ibn Abi Sarh.\n\nDuring his time as governor of Egypt (646 CE to 656 CE), Ibn Abi Sarh built a strong Egyptian Arab navy. Under his leadership the Muslim navy won a number of victories including its first major naval battle against the Byzantine emperor Constans II at the Battle of the Masts in 655 CE. One of his achievements while governor of Egypt was the capture of Tripoli in 647 whereby he brought Libya into the Islamic Empire.\n\nAl-Tabari has recorded in his tafsir that although Ibn Abi Sarh had apostatized, he returned to Islam before the conquest of Mecca. On the other hand, in his \"History\", al-Tabari records about Ibn Abi Sarh and Muhammad that \"Abdallah b. Sa`d b. Abi Sarh used to write for him. He apostatized from Islam and later returned to Islam on the day of the conquest of Mecca\". A hadith in Sunan Abu Dawud records an account of Ibn Abi Sarh's tense encounter with Muhammad on that day.\n\nWhen Uthman became caliph in 644 CE, he appointed Abdallah governor of Egypt replacing 'Amr ibn al-'As, with Muhammad ibn Hudhaifa as his aide. Abdallah brought over a large foreign entourage and established the diwan, \"and commanded that all the taxes of the country should be regulated there\".\n\nThe Copts viewed Abdallah as a \"lover of money\" who spent the revenues upon himself. In his time a famine struck Upper Egypt such that many Copts fled to the Nile Delta. Soon the Arabs protested his governorship, too.\n\nSome of the protests appear to have been instigated by his aide, Muhammad ibn Hudhaifa. Muhammad's father (Hudhaifa) was an early convert to Islam who died in the Battle of Yamama. Muhammad was raised by Uthman. When he reached maturity he participated in the foreign military campaigns and accompanied Abdullāh ibn Sa‘ad ibn Abī as-Sarh to Egypt as an aide. Muhammad bin Hudhaifa admonished Abdullah, recommending changes in the government but Abdallah did not respond. After continuous efforts, eventually Muhammad ibn Hudhaifa lost patience and turned from sympathetic admonisher to a disillusioned opponent – first of Ibn Abi Sarh and later of Uthman for appointing him. Ibn Abi Sarh wrote to Uthman claiming that Muhammad was spreading sedition and that if nothing was done to stop him, the situation would escalate. Uthman attempted to silence Muhammad's protests with 30,000 dirhams and expensive presents. This bribe backfired, with Muhammad bringing the money and presents into the Great Mosque saying;\n\nUthman sent numerous placatory letters to Muhammad, but he continued building the agitation against Ibn Abi Sarh. In 656 the leaders of Egypt decided to send a delegation to Medina to demanding Ibn Abi Sarh's dismissal. Ibn Abi Sarh also left for Medina to defend himself at the court of the caliph. In his absence, Muhammad ibn Hudhaifa assumed charge of the government.\n\nWhen Ibn Abi Sarh reached Elath, he was told that Uthman's house was under siege (Siege of Uthman) and decided to return to Egypt. At the border he was informed that Muhammad ibn Hudhaifa had given orders to prevent him from entering Egypt. He then went to Palestine awaiting the outcome of events in Medina. In the meantime, Uthman was killed in Medina, and when Ibn Abi Sarh heard the news, he left Palestine, and went to Damascus to live under the protection of Muawiyah I.\n\n"}
{"id": "38260457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38260457", "title": "Abdelhamid Abou Zeid", "text": "Abdelhamid Abou Zeid\n\nAbdelhamid Abou Zeid (born Mohamed Ghadir; 1965 – 25 February 2013) was an Algerian national and Islamist \"jihadi\" militant and smuggler who, in about 2010, became one of the top three military commanders of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), a Mali-based militant organization. He competed as the chief rival of Mokhtar Belmokhtar, an Algerian national who had become the major commander in AQIM and later head of his own group. Both gained wealth and power by kidnapping and ransoming European nationals. After taking control of Timbuktu in 2012, Abou Zeid established \"sharia\" law and destroyed Sufi shrines.\n\nAbou Zeid was killed by French and Chadian troops on 25 February 2013 in fighting in Northern Mali. On 23 March, Zeid's death was \"definitively confirmed\" by the French president's office. \n\nAbou Zeid was born in Algeria in 1965.\n\nAbou Zeid was one of the senior members of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, (AQIM), an Islamist militant organization. He had been promoted by the emir of AQIM, Abu Musab Abdel Wadoud (a.k.a. Abdelmalek Droukdel); some commentators speculated that Wadoud wanted to have an alternative to Mokhtar Belmokhtar, an increasingly powerful commander in AQIM also operating in Mali. \n\nAbou Zeid is believed to have ordered the executions of hostages, including Edwin Dyer in 2009 and Michel Germaneau in 2010. He is believed to have been behind the kidnapping of more than 20 Westerners between 2008 and 2013. The victims were held to gain ransoms to fund the activities of AQIM. \n\nWhen Abou Zeid controlled Timbuktu, he ordered amputations as punishment, and his forces destroyed historic Sufi shrines.\n\nWith both Abou Zeid and Belmokhtar exerting power in the Sahel region, in the fall of 2012, Wadoud appointed Djamel Okacha (also known as Yahya Abou el-Hammam) as the overall commander of AQIM in the Sahara, in an effort to keep control. According to a memo from him to Abou Zeid found in Timbuktu, Wadoud was concerned that the rapid push to establish Sharia law would provoke armed intervention. In January 2013, France and West African nations responded to the Malian government's request for help and entered with troops in northern Mali to dislodge AQIM. \n\nLeading a contingent of Islamists in central Mali, Abou Zeid attacked the small town of Diabaly in January 2013.\n\nAt the request of the Malian government, the French launched a quick intervention in January to drive the radical Islamists from northern Mali. They entered the area with 1,200 French troops, 800 Chadian soldiers and some elements of the Malian army, fighting in the Adrar mountain range.\n\nAbou Zeid was reported killed along with 40 militants on 25 February 2013, by French and Chadian troops near the mountainous region of Tigargara, Northern Mali. At the time, he and his men were believed to be holding at least four French citizens who had been kidnapped in 2010 in Niger. His death was first reported by Algeria's independent Ennahar TV on 28 February 2013. On 1 March 2013, Idriss Deby, President of Chad, said his forces had killed Abou Zeid during fighting in northern Mali. His death was confirmed by an Al Qaeda member on 5 March. According to a Reuters security source, he was replaced as AQIM's leader by Algerian Djamel Okacha (a.k.a. Yahya Abu al-Humam).\n\nOn 16 June 2013, AQIM officially confirmed the death of Abou Zeid in a martyrdom statement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29095459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29095459", "title": "Agostino Agresta", "text": "Agostino Agresta\n\nAgostino Agresta (\"fl.\" 1600–1617) was a Neapolitan composer working at the beginning of the 17th century, who can be seen as having been strongly influenced by Carlo Gesualdo. Agresta's only known surviving works are unaccompanied madrigals, including a complete book of six-voice pieces.\n\nFrustratingly little is known about the life and career of Agresta, including neither the circumstances of his birth or death. Apart from his works (discussed below), there are only two contemporary or near-contemporary references to him.\n\nHe and his elder brother Giovanni Antonio are listed together in the third book of Scipione Cerreto’s 1601 \"Della prattica musicale\" as excellent composers operating in Naples ('Compositori eccellenti della Città di Napoli, che oggi vivono'); however, no works by Giovanni Antonio survive. And a 1664 work by the Neapolitan scholar Camillo Tutini lists him as a madrigalist in a section devoted to promoting the cultural claims of Naples against Rome.\n\nAgresta's only surviving book of madrigals, \"Madrigali a sei voci ... Libro primo\", was published in Naples in 1617 by Costantino Vitale, and dedicated to Don Roderico di Salazar. Salazar had been commissioner of contraband in the provinces of Terra di Bari and Capitanata (today the province of Foggia) but was prosecuted in 1607 for extortion and corruption (Larson 1985: 758); his status in 1617 is unknown.\n\nAgresta's relationship to him is similarly unclear, although Larson has speculated that the composer may have been employed by Salazar as a tutor for his children, in a similar capacity to that of his brother in the household of the Count of Roccella (the records of the Banco Mari, which are contained in the Archivio di Stato in Naples, list a payment made to Giovanni Antonio Agresta on 18 March 1598).\n\nWhile composers in the northern Italian peninsula were beginning to move away from what was regarded as the old-fashioned polyphonic madrigal without continuo, Naples remained the most important centre for its composition and publication. In this context, Agresta's \"Madrigali a sei voci ... Libro primo\" occupies an important position, as during the first 30 years of the 17th century only two books of six-part unaccompanied madrigals were published in Naples: Agresta's and Gesualdo's posthumous collection of 1626 (of which only the Quinto part-book survives). While it is impossible to speculate with any accuracy on the basis of such scant evidence, Larson suggests that Agresta's madrigals may reveal something of the style of Gesualdo’s incomplete book.\n\nWatkins labels Agresta a minor figure among those Neapolitan composers who were influenced by Gesualdo, but suggests that posterity's opinion of him (and others) might well be different if more of his works had survived. Larson goes further and declares that Agresta 'occasionally surpassed (Gesualdo) in the degree of slow chromatic \"durezze e ligature\" and diatonic, scalar points of imitation in quavers and semiquavers', claiming that 'the latter are usually longer and more lively and intricate than Gesualdo's'.\n\nApart from the \"Madrigali a sei voci ... Libro primo\", three other madrigals identified as being by Agresta survive, all for five voices:\n\n\nThe inclusion of a piece by Agresta in the Borchgrevinck collection of 1606 raises many questions. Melchior Borchgrevinck was court organist to King Christian IV of Denmark, and in 1599 led a party of Danish musicians to Venice to study with Giovanni Gabrieli, returning there in the winter of 1601–2. He was greatly respected by his contemporaries, being praised by Orazio Vecchi in the dedication to Christian IV of \"Le veglie di Siena\" (1604), who also added that Gabrieli considered Borchgrevinck 'one of the most outstanding musicians of our time'.\n\nThe two volumes of \"Giardino novo\" (the first appeared in 1605, dedicated to Christian IV) included madrigals by some of the most popular Italian composers of the day, including Claudio Monteverdi, Benedetto Pallavicino and Giaches de Wert, as well as Borchgrevinck and other Danish composers. However, there are a number of works by composers who may not unfairly be deemed minor figures, including Giovanni Paolo Nodari, Curtio Valcampi and Grisostomo Rubiconi, and which Lewis suggests may not previously have been printed.\n\nApart from 'Caro dolce ben mio', all Agresta's works were published in Naples, and there is no record of him ever having worked or travelled away from Naples, thus seemingly making him very much a southern Italian composer. How then did his works find their way north to Venice, and why was he considered a composer of sufficient stature to be included in a volume of works dedicated, in a politically charged, to King James I of England? While it was not unusual for Neapolitan composers to have their works printed in Venice (see Larson 1985: 873–882 for a list of such works), the absence of any other evidence that links Agresta to Venice makes it hard to gauge his status and reputation during his lifetime.\n\nThere are two other references to Agresta which appear not to have been noted by other authors. In Schofield and Dart's article describing the contents of the British Library manuscript now known as Egerton MS 3665, believed to have been compiled by Francis Tregian (son of the more famous Catholic exile of the same name), Agresta is listed among the composer represented in the selection of over 700 Italian madrigals included in the manuscript; it is implied in the article, although not clearly, that Agresta’s contribution comes from his \"Madrigali a sei voci ... Libro primo\".\n\nIn the mid-1990s Alfred Noe completed a comprehensive study of the contents of the library of Albert Fugger (of the famous Augsburg banking family), which was purchased by Mathias Mauchter in 1655 for Emperor Ferdinand III and now forms part of the Österreichische Nationalbibliothek in Vienna.\n\nIn the catalogue made by Mauchter at the time of purchase, there is an entry on the last page of the music section which reads 'Il Primo lib.° de Madrigali a 5. di Agostino Agresta'. No collection of five-part madrigals by Agresta survives, nor any reference to one elsewhere. However, Noe identifies this volume as Agresta’s 1617 \"Madrigali a sei voci ... Libro primo\" from its contents, regarding the 'a 5' as a copyist's mistake.\n\nTwo complete copies of Agresta’s \"Madrigali a sei voci ... Libro primo\" survive, one in the Collection 'G. Thibault' of the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris, the other in the library of the Conservatorio di Musica San Pietro a Majella in Naples; both are in good condition, and each is identical to the other. The print is on the large part free from errors.\n\nKeith Larson has dealt extensively with the contents of Agresta's \"Madrigali a sei voci ... Libro primo\"; here are some extra details to his analysis.\n\nNumbers 1 to 8 are written in an 'ordinary' clef combination (Canto and Sesto in C1 clef, Alto in C3 clef, Tenore and Quinto in C4, and Basso in F4), while numbers 9 to 15 are written in 'high' clefs (Canto and Sesto in G2, Alto in C2, Tenore and Quinto in C3, and Basso in F3 – commonly known as \"chiavette\"), suggesting downwards transposition.\n\nIf one follows Adriano Banchieri's suggestion in his 1614 \"Cartella musicale\" of transposing pieces written in \"chiavette\" down by a perfect 4th when the printed key signature contains one flat and by a perfect 5th when it contains no flats, the transposed ranges of the individual voice parts of numbers 9 to 15 all become rather lower than the ranges of numbers 1 to 8. Depending on the singers involved in a performance, a downwards transposition of either a tone or a minor 3rd for numbers 9 to 15 is suggested.\n\nThe last piece in the collection, 'Io penso e nel pensar' is unusual in many ways. The anonymous poem is a dense play on the words 'penso' ('I think'), 'pensar' ('to think') and 'pensier' ('thought'); most striking is its use of frequently changing time signatures, which are different in each part, including such proportions as 1:10, 14:6, 6:5 and 3:7. Larson describes it as 'an intellectual challenge to virtuoso singers', while Watkins suggests that its 'novel and highly mannered proportional complexities ... while appearing theoretical as well as anachronistic, may well be an attempt by the composer to suggest expressive tempo variability'.\n\nThe choice of poetry comprises both old and new authors, and the majority of the texts are also set by many other composers. These include four by Giambattista Marino, four by Petrarch and two by Giovanni Battista Guarini (plus one other, number 7, which is attributed to Guarini); there are four anonymous poems.\n\nNumbers 6, 8 and 13 are the only settings of their poems recorded in \"Il nuovo Vogel\", while the text of number 15 (discussed above) is set elsewhere only by Francesco Mazza, in his own first book of six-part madrigals published in Venice in 1590. (A slightly different version of the poem was set by Jéhan Gero in the collection published by Costanzo Festa in 1541 and subsequently in Gero’s own collection of 1543.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48354797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48354797", "title": "Balam Acab", "text": "Balam Acab\n\nAlec Koone (born c. 1991), better known by his stage name Balam Acab, is an American electronic musician and producer originally from Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania.\n\nKoone began creating hardcore and metal at the age of 13 with a group of musician friends. While studying music at Ithaca College in Ithaca, New York in 2009, he began to experiment with post-rock and ambient music. He eventually dropped out of Ithaca College to focus on his music career. He released his first EP, \"See Birds\", in 2010, which was followed by his first full-length album, \"Wander/Wonder\", in 2011. \"Wander/Wonder\" was recorded entirely in the same bedroom he slept in as a child and heavily incorporated Creative Commons-licensed nature recordings he found on the Internet. His song \"See Birds,\" title track of the \"See Birds\" EP, was featured in a L'Oreal mascara ad starring Beyoncé in early 2011.\n\nAfter a long hiatus, Balam Acab self-released his second official album, \"CHILD DEATH\", on December 17, 2015 via Bandcamp. In April 2016, the album was pressed on vinyl and released by the DIY record label Orchid Tapes. Since the release of CHILD DEATH, Balam Acab has released many singles and collaborations in a variety of styles through Soundcloud and Bandcamp.\n\nAmong numerous side projects and aliases, Balam Acab recently teamed up with producer Goodbye to form the duo hospice_dreams, releasing the debut demo \"because i am true\". A full release is expected to be released late 2018.\n\nThe name \"Balam Acab\" was taken from a rainbow-creating deity in Maya mythology that Koone learned about in Spanish class.\n"}
{"id": "2065799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065799", "title": "Biopesticide", "text": "Biopesticide\n\nBiopesticides, a contraction of 'biological pesticides', include several types of pest management intervention: through predatory, parasitic, or chemical relationships. The term has been associated historically with biological control – and by implication – the manipulation of living organisms. Regulatory positions can be influenced by public perceptions, thus:\nThey are obtained from organisms including plants, bacteria and other microbes, fungi, nematodes, \"etc\". They are often important components of integrated pest management (IPM) programmes, and have received much practical attention as substitutes to synthetic chemical plant protection products (PPPs).\n\nBiopesticides can be classified into these classes-\n\nBiopesticides have usually no known function in photosynthesis, growth or other basic aspects of plant physiology. Instead, they are active against biological pests. Many chemical compounds have been identified that are produced by plants to protect them from pests. These materials are biodegradable and renewable alternatives, which can be economical for practical use. Organic farming systems embraces this approach to pest control.\n\nRNA interference is under study for possible use as a spray-on insecticide by multiple companies, including Monsanto, Syngenta, and Bayer. Such sprays do not modify the genome of the target plant. The RNA could be modified to maintain its effectiveness as target species evolve tolerance to the original. RNA is a relatively fragile molecule that generally degrades within days or weeks of application. Monsanto estimated costs to be on the order of $5/acre.\n\nRNAi has been used to target weeds that tolerate Monsanto's Roundup herbicide. RNAi mixed with a silicone surfactant that let the RNA molecules enter air-exchange holes in the plant's surface that disrupted the gene for tolerance, affecting it long enough to let the herbicide work. This strategy would allow the continued use of glyphosate-based herbicides, but would not per se assist a herbicide rotation strategy that relied on alternating Roundup with others.\n\nThey can be made with enough precision to kill some insect species, while not harming others. Monsanto is also developing an RNA spray to kill potato beetles One challenge is to make it linger on the plant for a week, even if it's raining. The Potato beetle has become resistant to more than 60 conventional insecticides.\n\nMonsanto lobbied the U.S. EPA to exempt RNAi pesticide products from any specific regulations (beyond those that apply to all pesticides) and be exempted from rodent toxicity, allergenicity and residual environmental testing. In 2014 an EPA advisory group found little evidence of a risk to people from eating RNA.\n\nHowever, in 2012, the Australian Safe Food Foundation alleged that the RNA trigger designed to change wheat's starch content might interfere with the gene for a human liver enzyme. Supporters countered that RNA does not appear to make it past human saliva or stomach acids. The US National Honey Bee Advisory Board told EPA that using RNAi would put natural systems at \"the epitome of risk\". The beekeepers cautioned that pollinators could be hurt by unintended effects and that the genomes of many insects are still unknown. Other unassessed risks include ecological (given the need for sustained presence for herbicide and other applications) and the possible for RNA drift across species boundaries.\n\nMonsanto has invested in multiple companies for their RNA expertise, including Beeologics (for RNA that kills a parasitic mite that infests hives and for manufacturing technology) and Preceres (nanoparticle lipidoid coatings) and licensed technology from Alnylam and Tekmira. In 2012 Syngenta acquired Devgen, a European RNA partner. Startup Forrest Innovations is investigating RNAi as a solution to citrus greening disease that in 2014 caused 22 percent of oranges in Florida to fall off the trees.\n\n\"Bacillus thuringiensis\", a bacterial disease of Lepidoptera, Coleoptera and Diptera, is a well-known insecticide example. The toxin from \"B. thuringiensis\" (Bt toxin) has been incorporated directly into plants through the use of genetic engineering. The use of Bt Toxin is particularly controversial. Its manufacturers claim it has little effect on other organisms, and is more environmentally friendly than synthetic pesticides.\n\nOther microbial control agents include products based on:\n\nVarious naturally occurring materials, including fungal and plant extracts, have been described as biopesticides. Products in this category include:\n\nBiopesticides are biological or biologically-derived agents, that are usually applied in a manner similar to chemical pesticides, but achieve pest management in an environmentally friendly way. With all pest management products, but especially microbial agents, effective control requires appropriate formulation and application.\n\nBiopesticides for use against crop diseases have already established themselves on a variety of crops. For example, biopesticides already play an important role in controlling downy mildew diseases. Their benefits include: a 0-Day Pre-Harvest Interval (see: maximum residue limit), the ability to use under moderate to severe disease pressure, and the ability to use as a tank mix or in a rotational program with other registered fungicides. Because some market studies estimate that as much as 20% of global fungicide sales are directed at downy mildew diseases, the integration of biofungicides into grape production has substantial benefits in terms of extending the useful life of other fungicides, especially those in the reduced-risk category.\n\nA major growth area for biopesticides is in the area of seed treatments and soil amendments. Fungicidal and biofungicidal seed treatments are used to control soil borne fungal pathogens that cause seed rots, damping-off, root rot and seedling blights. They can also be used to control internal seed–borne fungal pathogens as well as fungal pathogens that are on the surface of the seed. Many biofungicidal products also show capacities to stimulate plant host defence and other physiological processes that can make treated crops more resistant to a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3323499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3323499", "title": "Brian Manning Delaney", "text": "Brian Manning Delaney\n\nBrian Manning Delaney (born 1965 in California) is a philosopher, author, and translator, based primarily in Stockholm, Sweden. His ventures include English Proper, a translation company; The Infinite Faculty, an online university, web design firm, and rock band; and Die Grosse Liebe, an exhibition and film based on the principle that love is \"a powerful force\" (he and his collaborator, Åsa Elzén, embarked on a world tour in 2003-04 to visit former lovers on several continents).\n\nDelaney is also one of the founding members of the Swedish Hegel Society (Svenska Hegelsällskapet), and is on the editorial board of \"Site Magazine\". His articles for \"Site\" have focused on German philosophy as well as on European attitudes towards the U.S.\n\nHis and Sven-Olov Wallenstein's Swedish translation of Hegel's \"Phänomenologie des Geistes\" (in Swedish: \"Andens Fenomenologi\") was published in September, 2008. His translation of \"Den andra födan\" (English: \"As a Weasel Sucks Eggs\"), by Daniel Birnbaum and Anders Olsson, was published by Sternberg Press in October, 2008.\n\nIn April 2009, the Swedish Academy awarded him a special honor for his work on the translation of the \"Phenomenology of Spirit\".\n\nHis earliest research was in artificial intelligence, working first with Paul Cohen at the University of Massachusetts, then as an undergraduate with Eugene Charniak at Brown University. \n\nDelaney founded the Usenet group sci.life-extension, and cofounded, with Lisa Walford, Roy Walford, and others, the CR Society International. He recently co-authored a popular science book on modulating the aging process, \"The Longevity Diet\".\n"}
{"id": "47436493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47436493", "title": "Bucky Barnes", "text": "Bucky Barnes\n\nJames Buchanan \"Bucky\" Barnes is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Originally introduced as a sidekick to Captain America, the character was created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby and first appeared in \"Captain America Comics\" #1 (cover-dated March 1941) (which was published by Marvel's predecessor) as the original and most well-known incarnation of \"Bucky\". The character is brought back from supposed death as the brainwashed assassin Winter Soldier (, translit. \"Zimniy Soldát\"; Belarusian: Зімовы Салдат translit. Zimovy Saldat; Uzbek: Qish Askari translit. Kish Askari), and later assumed the role of Captain America when Steve Rogers was presumed to be dead.\n\nIGN listed Bucky Barnes as the 53rd greatest comic book hero of all time stating that after Robin, Bucky is easily the most iconic superhero sidekick of the Golden Age and describing him as one of the central players in the Marvel Universe since his role of being Captain America. IGN also lists Bucky as #8 in their list of \"The Top 50 Avengers\" in 2012. Sebastian Stan portrays the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe films \"\", \"\", \"Ant-Man\", \"\", \"Black Panther\", and \"\".\n\nWhen Joe Simon created his initial sketch of Captain America for Marvel Comics precursor Timely Comics in 1940, he included a young sidekick. \"The boy companion was simply named Bucky, after my friend Bucky Pierson, a star on our high school basketball team,\" Simon said in his autobiography. Following the character's debut in \"Captain America Comics\" #1 (March 1941), Bucky Barnes appeared alongside the title star in virtually every story in that publication and other Timely series, and was additionally part of the all-kid team the Young Allies. In the post-war era, with the popularity of superheroes fading, Bucky appeared alongside team-leader Captain America in the two published adventures of Timely/Marvel's first superhero group, the All-Winners Squad, in \"All Winners Comics\" #19 and 21 (Fall-Winter 1946; there was no issue #20). After Bucky was shot and seriously wounded in a 1948 \"Captain America\" story, he was succeeded by Captain America's girlfriend Betsy Ross, who became the superhero Golden Girl. \"Captain America Comics\" ended with #75 (Feb. 1950), by which time the series had been titled \"Captain America's Weird Tales\" for two issues, with the finale a horror/suspense anthology issue with no superheroes.\n\nCaptain America and Bucky were both briefly revived, along with fellow Timely stars the Human Torch and the Sub-Mariner, in the omnibus \"Young Men\" #24 (Dec. 1953), published by Marvel's 1950s iteration Atlas Comics. Bucky appeared alongside \"Captain America, Commie Smasher!\", as the hero was cover-billed, in stories published during the next year in \"Young Men\" and \"Men's Adventures\", as well as in three issues of \"Captain America\" that continued the old numbering. Sales were poor, however, and the series was discontinued with \"Captain America\" #78 (Sept. 1954).\n\nRetroactive continuity, beginning with \"The Avengers\" #4 (March 1964), established that the original Captain America and Bucky went missing near the end of World War II and were secretly replaced by then-U.S. President Harry S. Truman with successor heroes using those identities.\n\nBucky appeared in very occasional flashbacks from the 1960s on, and co-starred with Captain America in flashback World War II adventures in \"Tales of Suspense\" #63-71 (March-Nov. 1965). His apparent death was depicted in flashback in \"The Avengers\" #56 (Sept. 1968).\n\nIn 2005, series writer Ed Brubaker returned Bucky from his seeming death near the end of World War II. He additionally revealed that Barnes's official status as Captain America's sidekick was a cover-up, and that Barnes began as a 16-year-old operative trained to do things regular soldiers and the twenty-something Captain America normally would not do, such as conduct covert assassinations.\n\nBucky's death had been notable as one of the few comic book deaths that remained unreversed. An aphorism among comic book fans, known as the Bucky Clause, was that in comics, \"No one stays dead except Bucky, Jason Todd and Uncle Ben\". However, all three were brought back to life in their respective universes in 2006, although Uncle Ben turned out to be an alternate Ben from another reality.\n\nBucky's death has also been used to explain why the Marvel Universe has virtually no young sidekicks, as no responsible hero wants to endanger a minor in similar fashion. Stan Lee also disliked the plot device of kid sidekicks, saying in the 1970s that \"One of my many pet peeves has always been the young teenage sidekick of the average superhero\". Roger Stern and John Byrne had also considered bringing Bucky back, before deciding against it. However, in 1990, co-creator Jack Kirby, when asked if he had ever heard talk of resurrecting Bucky, answered: \"Speaking completely for myself, I wouldn't mind bringing Bucky in; he represents teenagers, and there are always teenagers; he's a universal character\".\n\nA climactic scene of Bucky's return involves Captain America using the reality-altering Cosmic Cube to restore the Winter Soldier's memories. Writer Ed Brubaker, in an interview, said he intended no loophole, and that Captain America did not \"will\" the Winter Soldier to have Bucky's memories.\n\nAs Captain America, he appeared as a regular character in the 2010-2013 \"Avengers\" series, from issue #1 (July 2010) through issue #7 (January 2011), and in issue #12.1 (June 2011). After the events of the 2011 \"Fear Itself\" storyline, Bucky returned to the role of Winter Soldier, this time as a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent in an eponymous series that lasted 19 issues. The first 14 issues were written by Brubaker, with the last story arc written by Jason Latour. Since January 2014, Bucky has been part of the cast of James Robinson's \"All-New Invaders.\"\n\nJames Buchanan Barnes was born in Shelbyville, Indiana in 1925. Barnes grew up as an Army brat. He was orphaned when his father was killed in training at U.S. Army Camp Lehigh in Virginia just before the United States' entry into World War II. As a result, he is unofficially adopted by the camp as a mascot. Nicknamed \"Bucky\", he takes to wearing a uniform and becoming savvy with the ins and outs of military life, even though he is a teenager. It was at Lehigh that he meets and befriends Private Steven Rogers, who by all appearances is the clumsiest soldier in the camp. This was at the same time that reports of the then-mysterious Captain America begin to appear in news magazines, and Barnes eagerly devours the accounts of this new hero.\n\nIn 1940, Bucky accidentally walked in on Steve Rogers changing into his uniform, thus discovering his friend was Captain America and insisted that he join him. He underwent extensive training and was assigned to be Captain America's partner. The military justified putting a 15-year-old in harm's way by using him as a symbol to rally the youth of America (as revealed in \"Captain America\" vol. 5, #12, Dec 2005). They fight the Red Skull together, and Captain America accepts Bucky as his partner. Together, Captain America and Bucky fight Nazis both at home and abroad, as a duo and as part of the superhero team known as the Invaders, fighting Master Man in their first mission. Barnes also teams up with the sidekicks of other heroes in a group called the Young Allies. Additionally, Bucky was retconned in 1976 as the organizer of the flashback World War II super-team the Liberty Legion, set between the formations of the Invaders and the post-war All-Winners Squad. He was also briefly one of the Kid Commandos at this time. Bucky served as an advance scout for Captain America and the Invaders, often being assigned tasks that none of the heroes could be seen doing.\n\nIn the closing days of World War II in 1945, Captain America and Bucky tried to stop the villainous Baron Zemo from destroying an experimental drone plane. Zemo launches the plane with an armed explosive device on it, with Rogers and Barnes in hot pursuit. They reach the plane just before it takes off. Bucky unsuccessfully tries to defuse the bomb, and it explodes in mid-air before reaching its intended target. He will be believed to have been killed in action, as Rogers is hurled into the freezing waters of the North Atlantic. Rogers' body, preserved in suspended animation in a block of ice, is found decades later by The Avengers while searching the Arctic for the Sub-Mariner.\n\nIt was only in modern times that Captain America would learn that Bucky had a sister, Rebecca, whom he met at a veterans Christmas celebration. Bucky also had one notable post-mortem appearance when the Grandmaster challenged the West and East Coast Avengers for the destruction of the universe, apparently resurrecting long-dead friends and foes for them to fight. Captain America battled Bucky, whom he defeated, and the apparitions disappeared.\n\nIn 2005, Marvel launched a new \"Captain America\" series (Volume 5) with writer Ed Brubaker, who revealed that Bucky did not die in World War II. It was revealed that after the plane exploded, General Vasily Karpov and the crew of a Russian patrol submarine found Bucky's cold-preserved body, albeit with his left arm severed. Bucky was revived in Moscow, but suffered brain damage with amnesia as a result of the explosion. Scientists attached a bionic arm, periodically upgrading it as technology improved.\n\nProgrammed to be a Soviet assassin for Department X – under the code name the Winter Soldier, he is sent on covert wetwork missions and becomes increasingly ruthless and efficient as he kills in the name of the state. While a Soviet agent, he also has a brief relationship with the Black Widow. The Winter Soldier is kept in a cryogenic stasis when not on missions, and as a result has aged only a few years to a young adult since the closing days of World War II. In 1968, the Winter Soldier was sent to kill Professor Zhang Chin, whom he had met over 20 years earlier. He was thwarted by an intangible being called the Man with No Face, though he was able to escape. On assignment in the United States in the 1970s, he suffers a breakdown and goes missing for days after assassinating his target. The Winter Soldier also aided in Wolverine's escape from the Weapon X laboratory and later murdered Itsu, Wolverine's wife, seemingly killing their unborn son Daken, who survived the attack after being cut from his mother's womb.\n\nIn the present day, the Winter Soldier seemingly kills the Red Skull and Jack Monroe (Nomad) under orders from former Soviet general Aleksander Lukin (Karpov's former protégé). The Winter Soldier launches a terrorist attack on Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, killing hundreds, and charges the Cosmic Cube which Lukin sent him to retrieve. He kidnaps Sharon Carter, an agent of the international espionage agency S.H.I.E.L.D. and a former lover of Steve Rogers (Captain America). Upon her rescue, Carter tells Captain America that Winter Soldier looked like Bucky. S.H.I.E.L.D. chief Nick Fury confirms the Winter Soldier's existence, but cannot ascertain his identity.\n\nCaptain America tracks down and confronts the Winter Soldier. Regaining his memories, Bucky becomes overwhelmed by guilt over his past actions, crushing the Cosmic Cube and teleporting away.\n\nHe reappears shortly afterward in London, England, where he helps Captain America fend off a terrorist attack. He asks Nick Fury for employment and new equipment following the loss of his bionic arm. Following the events of the superhuman Civil War, Winter Soldier helps Fury plan the escape of an arrested Steve Rogers. Before the plan can be implemented, however, Rogers is assassinated. Considering registration architect Tony Stark (Iron Man) as ultimately responsible, Winter Soldier plans to kill Stark in revenge. Deducing that Stark will oversee the appointment of a new Captain America, Winter Soldier steals Captain America's shield from S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Black Widow so that it cannot be handed down. Ultimately, he heads to Kronas's headquarters, where Lukin reveals he is the Red Skull and has the evil psychiatrist Dr. Faustus attempt unsuccessfully to brainwash the Winter Soldier.\n\nAfter escaping from Faustus and being captured by S.H.I.E.L.D., Barnes learns from Executive Director Tony Stark that Steve Rogers had left Stark a letter asking Stark to watch over Barnes and that the Captain America mantle should continue. Stark suggests that Barnes become the new Captain America. Barnes agrees to become the new Captain America only if Stark has telepaths eliminate any potential subliminal commands and guarantees him complete autonomy. As the autonomy arrangement is illegal under the Superhuman Registration Act, Stark keeps his support of the new Captain America secret. Barnes's new Captain America costume is laced with adamantium, and he carries a pistol and a combat knife. Barnes' first major adventure as the new Captain America has him, Falcon, Carter and S.H.I.E.L.D. fighting against the original Red Skull and Dr. Faustus who have revived the 1950s Captain America in a plot to secure one of their pawns attaining the U.S. presidency. Barnes and his allies succeed in aborting the Skull's plans, and Barnes saves the Democratic and Republican presidential candidates from assassination, winning public applause. The adventure ends with Barnes accepting himself and addressing himself now as Captain America. He also begins a friendship with Black Widow.\n\nA still-teenaged Barnes is transported from 1941 and appears in the 2008 \"Avengers/Invaders\" miniseries alongside his fellow Invaders when a time travel incident takes them from a World War II battlefield to the present-day Marvel Universe, where they encounter both the Mighty Avengers and New Avengers. At the conclusion of \"Avengers/Invaders\" #4, while attempting to break out of the S.H.I.E.L.D. helicarrier, which he believes to be a German base, Barnes encounters his future self dressed as Captain America. During this meeting, the future Barnes attempts to change his history by telling his past self to abandon the plane that he was seemingly killed trying to disarm, without ever telling his younger self his true identity. Barnes decides to let his life turn out the way it should after witnessing the devastating risks involved in changing history.\n\nDuring the \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, after most of the other heroes have fallen as the Skrull invasion of Earth continues, Captain America is seen watching Thor defend a group of civilians in Central Park. Later, after a brief confrontation with Thor, he joins the other group of heroes (the Mighty Avengers, the New Avengers, the Initiative, the Thunderbolts, Nick Fury and his Secret Warriors, Young Avengers, and the Hood's group) in battle against an army of Super-Skrulls led by Queen Veranke herself.\n\nFollowing the \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, Captain America discovers that the remains of Jim Hammond, the original Human Torch, have been recovered and studied by the United Nations. The body was stolen by Professor Zhang Chin who used the Torch to create a virus to exterminate half the Earth's population. Teaming up with Namor, they stop Chin and make sure that Hammond receives a proper burial.\n\nIn the aftermath of \"Secret Invasion\", Captain America joins the New Avengers and offers his home as a base of operations. He later participates in the search for Luke Cage and Jessica Jones' child, Danielle. He was considered a possible team leader but turned it down because he did not have the proper team experience.\n\nIn the \"\" storyline, Barnes finds out from Sharon that she did not really kill Steve Rogers. As explained by Doctor Zola to Norman Osborn, Rogers was trapped in a fixed position of time and space. But since Sharon ruined the machine that was supposed to bring him back, Steve was reliving his own past. Barnes and Black Widow attempt to steal the device from H.A.M.M.E.R. but are captured. Osborn sends the Black Widow back to Sharon with an ultimatum: either she turns herself in, as Osborn had implicated her as Rogers' second shooter, or he'll kill Barnes. Barnes is then sent into the custody of the Thunderbolts who tell him that he'll be inducted into their group once Rogers is brought back. However, Barnes is secretly freed by Ant-Man and then rescued by the Falcon. Barnes then teams up with Clint Barton, Natasha Romanoff, the Falcon, Hank Pym, and the Vision to save Sharon. The group intercepts the Red Skull's ship beside the Lincoln Memorial and attacks. The Red Skull has already taken over Steve's body, and Barnes attacks him. The two battle while Hank saves Sharon and the others battle Crossbones and a squad of M.O.D.O.K.S.. Sin shoots Barnes in the shoulders, giving the Skull the opportunity to take Captain America's shield. He pins Barnes to the ground and cuts off his cybernetic hand with the shield. However, inside Steve's mind, Steve prepares to kill the Red Skull to keep him from doing any more evil in his name. Realizing its peril, the Red Skull's consciousness returns to its own robotic body. As the robotic Skull attempts to flee, Sharon shoots him, causing the Skull's body to become giant-sized. Steve, back in control of himself, leads an attack. The Vision uses the Skull's ship's weapons to destroy the Skull.\n\nLeading up to the \"Siege\" storyline, Bucky Barnes is shown still as Captain America talking with Steve Rogers in a dark body suit and standing next to him. But Rogers is back in costume and seen alongside Barnes still in his own Captain America costume. The two are helping restore Tony Stark's mind by using the shield as a conduit for Thor's lightning. In the second issue, Barnes is alongside Steve's team of heroes. Barnes (still in his Captain America suit) pulls Rogers aside just before they are about to leave for Asgard. Barnes tells Rogers that they should \"skip the argument\" and insists that Rogers use Captain America's shield. Rogers takes the shield, and Barnes is shown with a large gun in his hands, ready for the fight ahead. In the following issue, Barnes is shown fighting alongside Rogers with both wearing their respective Captain America uniforms in Asgard. After the events of \"Siege\", Rogers returns the shield to Barnes and retires his uniform, leaving Barnes as the only Captain America.\n\nBarnes is a member of the main Avengers team formed in the aftermath of the \"Siege\" storyline. Barnes is then put on trial for the crimes he committed as the Winter Soldier. He is found not guilty in an American court, but Russian officials take him away, having convicted him of crimes against the state and claiming that he had gone rogue and killed two civilians. But as Sharon Carter and Black Widow discover, Barnes' victims were connected to Russia's Department X's Red Room division. Barnes escapes imprisonment with the help of Black Widow and returns to the USA, however it is decided he is too tainted by events to be allowed to continue as Captain America.\n\nDuring the \"Fear Itself\" storyline, Barnes takes up the Captain America identity again, but is apparently killed in battle with Sin (in her Skadi form). He survives after being injected with a dose of the Infinity Formula. With the world believing him dead he returned to his former identity of Winter Soldier to perform special jobs behind the scenes relating to his earlier days as the Winter Soldier. Only Rogers, Nick Fury, and Black Widow know the truth of his \"death\". Bucky and Natasha then pursue sleeper agents trained by Bucky during his Winter Soldier days, awakened recently by an unknown ex-KGB agent, who turns out to be Ivan Kragoff, the Red Ghost and former prime minister of Latveria Lucia von Bardas.\n\nDuring the \"Original Sin\" storyline, Bucky initially participates in the investigation into the death of Uatu the Watcher, travelling into deep space with Moon Knight and Gamora to follow up a lead. After the Orb uses one of the Watcher's eyes to force the heroes in its vicinity to witness their deepest secrets, he returns to Earth after destroying the shuttle to strand his teammates, brutally attacking Nick Fury (actually a Life Model Decoy) as he proclaims that there will be \"No more secrets\". Following the revelation that Nick Fury has been secretly protecting Earth from various alien threats for years using more brutal methods than the heroes would have condoned, as well as the revelation that he killed the Watcher in self-defense and used the Watcher's eye to find the identity of his attacker when Uatu refused to break his oath and reveal that information himself, Fury now acts as the Watcher's replacement while Bucky takes over Fury's role as Earth's more ruthless guardian.\n\nDuring the \"\" storyline, Bucky, upon being alerted of a catastrophic event, returns to Earth and traces the source of the event to a S.H.I.E.L.D. facility where he fights off the S.H.I.E.L.D. agents there. He leaves a trail for Steve Rogers, who finds a message on a napkin he used. At Bev's Diner, Steve Rogers meets with Winter Soldier where they learn that S.H.I.E.L.D. never discarded the Kobik project as they believed, which Whisperer (an alias of Rick Jones) made it public. He then meets Sam Wilson, the current Captain America, who received a tip from the Whisperer about Pleasant Hill and Kobik. After rescuing S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Avril Kancaid from the Blood Brothers at the Day Care Center, they are informed of a super weapon hidden in town that Baron Zemo and the other villains are looking for. They later find Steve Rogers at the bowling alley restored to his prime, after Kobik used her powers to restore his youth when he was about to be killed by Crossbones. They begin to search for Kobik again only to discover that Baron Zemo had Fixer invent a device that would help find Kobik as Kraven the Hunter rallies the villains to help with their goals. Upon not being able to successfully locate Kobik, Steve decides to rally the heroes so they can take the fight to Baron Zemo. In the aftermath of the incident, Winter Soldier is approached by Kobik, who offers to help him do good. Winter Soldier agrees to the terms as Kobik suggests that she brings some \"friends\" she made in Pleasant Hill with them.\n\nDuring the \"Opening Salvo\" part of the \"Secret Empire\" storyline, Baron Helmut Zemo uses Kobik to send Winter Soldier back in time to World War II. However, Zemo has other plans on Winter Soldier, deciding to tie him onto the rocket to be killed in its explosion. Before being launched, Winter Soldier is shocked to see the Steve he saw besides Zemo is not the man he once knew. However, Winter Soldier manages to escape and fall into the ocean, where he is found by the Atlantean army led by Namor, and is offered to disguise himself as the king's bodyguard to cover his tracks. Once Sam Wilson returns as Captain America and gives hope to his fellow heroes to find the Cosmic Cube fragments before Hydra does, Namor told Winter Soldier that the time has come to remove his disguise and help their fellow allies. During the resistances' preparation for the final battle against Hydra and returning the real Steve Rogers back, Winter Soldier reveals that he knew whom Kobik was aside being a manifested sentient of Cosmic Cube, a misguided child whom Hydra manipulated into replacing the real Steve with a Hydra counterpart. Thus, Winter Soldier devices a distraction plan by needing Ant-Man/Scott Lang and Sam's help to get Kobik and their Steve back, while Hawkeye leads the rest of resistance on their final raids on the Hydra army at their main base, located in Washington, DC. During the heroes' final raid against Hydra, Winter Soldier rescues Black Panther, who was captured by Hydra and they apprehend Zemo together. When Zola equips Hydra Supreme Steve Rogers with a modified stolen Iron Man armor, infused with the 90% fragments of Cosmic Cube, and both altering the reality into Hydra's image and erasing the heroes from their existence, Winter Soldier, Ant-Man and Sam Wilson uses the last fragment to defend themselves, and initiate their plans, by pretending to surrender the last fragment to Hydra Steve, for Ant-Man and Winter Soldier to enter the cube inside. Once entering the cube thanks to Ant-Man, and Sam's distraction, Winter Soldier manages to save both Kobik and Steve Rogers, restoring the reality and restoring both Steve's physical appearance on the surface, as well as wearing his iconic Captain America costume, and his Super Soldier serum powers. Winter Soldier wanted to help his friend defeating his evil Hydra counterpart, but Sam told him to stand down and let Captain America do this alone. After Captain America defeated his counterpart, and eventually Hydra, Winter Soldier went to Madripoor while still mourning over Black Widow's death, who was killed by Hydra Supreme Rogers, watching her funeral on TV as he is currently on the lead of an infamous general, who is the target of assassination. Someone snipes the general and Winter Soldier suspects that it might be Black Widow. However, Bucky has doubt that the last Black Widow he saw is not Natasha, but an impostor. He is soon joined by Hawkeye in the search for Natasha's impostor who they discover to be Yelena Belova, who temporarily replaced Natasha as the Black Widow ten years prior.\n\nHaving trained under Steve Rogers (the original Captain America in World War II) and others in the time leading up to World War II, \"Bucky\" Barnes is a master of hand-to-hand combat and martial arts, as well as being skilled in the use of military weapons such as firearms and grenades. He also used throwing knives on occasion and was a gifted advance scout. His time as the covert Soviet agent known as the Winter Soldier helped to further hone his skills, making him the equal to his predecessor in combat skills and an expert assassin and spy. He is also fluent in many languages, including English, Spanish, Portuguese, German, Russian, Latin, and Japanese. He can understand French.\n\nWinter Soldier's left arm is a cybernetic prosthetic with superhuman strength and enhanced reaction time. The arm can function when not in contact with Barnes and can discharge an EMP causing electronics to either shut down or become useless. The use of Barnes' EMP is shown when Barnes uses it to shut down a Nick Fury LMD and when he attempts to use it on Iron Man. The arm has a holographic function to disguise it as a flesh and blood arm.\n\nAs Captain America, he possesses the original, indestructible, vibranium alloy shield used by his predecessor, as well as a Kevlar/Nomex blend shock-absorbing costume. He often carries several conventional weapons such as knives, guns—mostly a Colt 1911A1 .45 and a P08 Luger—and grenades.\n\nIn the DC Comics/Marvel Comics one-shot intercompany crossover \"Batman/Captain America\" (Dec. 1996), written and drawn by John Byrne and set during World War II, Bucky briefly takes Robin's place as Batman's sidekick, while Robin becomes Captain America's sidekick. In this alternate reality (set in one of DC Comics' numerous \"Elseworlds\" continuities), Bucky dies (off-page) as he had done in numerous \"Avengers\" and \"Captain America\" recollections.\n\nIn the alternate reality of the five-issue \"Bullet Points\" miniseries (Jan.-May 2005), James Barnes never teams up with Steve Rogers as the Super-Soldier program was never activated. However, Rogers volunteers for the 'Iron Man' program and as such, saves Barnes and several fellow soldiers from an advancing tank during the battle of Guadalcanal. Unfortunately he is not swift enough to save Barnes from severe damage to his legs.\n\nIn the House of M reality, James Buchanan Barnes is one of the United States government agents (alongside Mimic and Nuke) sent to Genosha to kill Magneto and as many of his followers as possible. Nuke and Mimic served as a distraction while Agent Barnes sneaked into Magneto's headquarters; and though he fatally stabs Professor Xavier, Bucky was killed by Magneto.\n\nIn the second issue of the crossover miniseries \"Marvel Zombies vs. The Army of Darkness\", a zombified Winter Soldier appears and attempts to devour Dazzler. This version of the Winter Soldier is ultimately killed by Ash Williams, who shoots his head off with his \"boomstick\", even having shot off his bionic arm.\n\nThe alternate reality Ultimate Marvel version of Bucky Barnes is an adult sidekick of Captain America (Steve Rogers). This version is Steve's childhood friend who accompanies on missions as an Army press photographer. Surviving the war and believing Captain America's death, Bucky eventually marries Gail Richards and has a large extended family. During which, Bucky is diagnosed as having lung cancer from chain smoking back in the War. Barnes and Gail both live to see Steve's revival in the 21st century and renews their friendship. After America was taken by the Liberators, Bucky is captured at a cemetery with Steve and remains unseen. However, both he and Gail are seen being taken into S.H.I.E.L.D. protective custody after it is discovered that the Red Skull is Steve's and Gail's illegitimate son.\n\nIn the alternate reality Marvel MAX series \"U.S. War Machine\", Bucky was serving in the present as Captain America, as the Captain had died in his stead in World War II. Bucky was accompanied here by two assistants that are both addressed by their real names.\n\nIn the 2005 \"What If?\" event, the Captain America story, set during the American Civil War, featured Steve Rogers' commanding officer, Colonel Buck Barnes, whom the men called \"Bucky\". His mercenary tendencies led to Rogers' desertion, and when he later intervened in Rogers' transformation into Captain America, his face was destroyed, turning him into an undead being known as the White Skull.\n\nIn \"Ruins\", which is set in a dystopian alternate future, Bucky is taken into custody alongside Victor Creed and others for several heinous crimes, including cannibalism.\n\nAn alternate-universe Bucky appears in the 2011 miniseries \"Captain America Corps\".\n\nIn a world where all the Marvel characters are small children depicted in \"A-Babies vs. X-Babies\", Bucky is Steve's teddy bear, named Bucky Bear. He is stolen by Scott Summers, igniting an enormous battle between the baby Avengers and the baby X-Men.\n\nBucky (as a teenager) will appear as a member of the Battleworld Runaways during \"Secret Wars\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6195", "title": "Calvin Coolidge", "text": "Calvin Coolidge\n\nJohn Calvin Coolidge Jr. (; July 4, 1872 – January 5, 1933) was an American politician and the 30th President of the United States (1923–1929). A Republican lawyer from New England, born in Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the ladder of Massachusetts state politics, eventually becoming governor. His response to the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the national spotlight and gave him a reputation as a man of decisive action. Soon after, he was elected Vice President of the United States in 1920, and succeeded to the presidency upon the sudden death of Warren G. Harding in 1923. Elected in his own right in 1924, he gained a reputation as a small government conservative and also as a man who said very little, although having a rather dry sense of humor.\n\nCoolidge restored public confidence in the White House after the scandals of his predecessor's administration, and left office with considerable popularity. As a Coolidge biographer wrote: \"He embodied the spirit and hopes of the middle class, could interpret their longings and express their opinions. That he did represent the genius of the average is the most convincing proof of his strength\".\n\nMainstream scholars have ranked Coolidge as a below-average president. He is praised by advocates of smaller government and \"laissez-faire\", while supporters of an active central government generally view him less favorably, though most praise his stalwart support of racial equality.\n\nJohn Calvin Coolidge Jr. was born in Plymouth Notch, Windsor County, Vermont, on July 4, 1872, the only U.S. president to be born on Independence Day. He was the elder of the two children of John Calvin Coolidge Sr. (1845–1926) and Victoria Josephine Moor (1846–1885). Coolidge Senior engaged in many occupations and developed a statewide reputation as a prosperous farmer, storekeeper, and public servant. He held various local offices, including justice of the peace and tax collector and served in the Vermont House of Representatives as well as the Vermont Senate. Coolidge's mother was the daughter of a Plymouth Notch farmer. She was chronically ill and died, perhaps from tuberculosis, when Coolidge was twelve years old. His younger sister, Abigail Grace Coolidge (1875–1890), died at the age of fifteen, probably of appendicitis, when Coolidge was eighteen. Coolidge's father married a Plymouth schoolteacher in 1891, and lived to the age of eighty.\n\nCoolidge's family had deep roots in New England; his earliest American ancestor, John Coolidge, emigrated from Cottenham, Cambridgeshire, England, around 1630 and settled in Watertown, Massachusetts. Another ancestor, Edmund Rice, arrived at Watertown in 1638. Coolidge's great-great-grandfather, also named John Coolidge, was an American military officer in the Revolutionary War and one of the first selectmen of the town of Plymouth. His grandfather Calvin Galusha Coolidge served in the Vermont House of Representatives. Coolidge was also a descendant of Samuel Appleton, who settled in Ipswich and led the Massachusetts Bay Colony during King Philip's War.\n\nCoolidge attended Black River Academy and then St. Johnsbury Academy, before enrolling at Amherst College, where he distinguished himself in the debating class. As a senior he joined the fraternity Phi Gamma Delta and graduated \"cum laude\". While at Amherst Coolidge was profoundly influenced by philosophy professor Charles Edward Garman, a Congregational mystic, with a neo-Hegelian philosophy.\n\nCoolidge explained Garman's ethics forty years later:\n[T]here is a standard of righteousness that might does not make right, that the end does not justify the means, and that expediency as a working principle is bound to fail. The only hope of perfecting human relationships is in accordance with the law of service under which men are not so solicitous about what they shall get as they are about what they shall give. Yet people are entitled to the rewards of their industry. What they earn is theirs, no matter how small or how great. But the possession of property carries the obligation to use it in a larger service...\n\nAt his father's urging after graduation, Coolidge moved to Northampton, Massachusetts to become a lawyer. To avoid the cost of law school, Coolidge followed the common practice of apprenticing with a local law firm, Hammond & Field, and reading law with them. John C. Hammond and Henry P. Field, both Amherst graduates, introduced Coolidge to law practice in the county seat of Hampshire County. In 1897, Coolidge was admitted to the Massachusetts bar, becoming a country lawyer. With his savings and a small inheritance from his grandfather, Coolidge opened his own law office in Northampton in 1898. He practiced commercial law, believing that he served his clients best by staying out of court. As his reputation as a hard-working and diligent attorney grew, local banks and other businesses began to retain his services.\n\nIn 1903, Coolidge met Grace Anna Goodhue, a University of Vermont graduate and teacher at Northampton's Clarke School for the Deaf. They married on October 4, 1905 at 2:30 p.m. in a small ceremony which took place in the parlor of Grace's family's house, following a vain effort at postponement by Grace's mother; she was never enamored with Coolidge, nor he with her. The newlyweds went on a honeymoon trip to Montreal, originally planned for two weeks but cut short by a week at Coolidge's request. After 25 years he wrote of Grace, \"for almost a quarter of a century she has borne with my infirmities and I have rejoiced in her graces\".\n\nThe Coolidges had two sons: John (September 7, 1906 – May 31, 2000) and Calvin Jr. (April 13, 1908 – July 7, 1924). The death of Calvin Jr. at age 16 from blood poisoning brought on by an infected blister \"hurt [Coolidge] terribly,\" according to son John. John became a railroad executive, helped to start the Coolidge Foundation, and was instrumental in creating the President Calvin Coolidge State Historic Site.\n\nCoolidge was frugal, and when it came to securing a home, he insisted upon renting. Grace Coolidge was a member of Northampton's Edwards Congregational Church, but Coolidge never formally joined the congregation.\n\nThe Republican Party was dominant in New England at the time, and Coolidge followed the example of Hammond and Field by becoming active in local politics. In 1896, Coolidge campaigned for Republican presidential candidate William McKinley, and the next year he was selected to be a member of the Republican City Committee. In 1898, he won election to the City Council of Northampton, placing second in a ward where the top three candidates were elected. The position offered no salary but provided Coolidge invaluable political experience. In 1899, he declined renomination, running instead for City Solicitor, a position elected by the City Council. He was elected for a one-year term in 1900, and reelected in 1901. This position gave Coolidge more experience as a lawyer and paid a salary of $600 (). In 1902, the city council selected a Democrat for city solicitor, and Coolidge returned to private practice. Soon thereafter, however, the clerk of courts for the county died, and Coolidge was chosen to replace him. The position paid well, but it barred him from practicing law, so he remained at the job for only one year. In 1904, Coolidge suffered his sole defeat at the ballot box, losing an election to the Northampton school board. When told that some of his neighbors voted against him because he had no children in the schools he would govern, Coolidge replied, \"Might give me time!\"\n\nIn 1906, the local Republican committee nominated Coolidge for election to the state House of Representatives. He won a close victory over the incumbent Democrat, and reported to Boston for the 1907 session of the Massachusetts General Court. In his freshman term, Coolidge served on minor committees and, although he usually voted with the party, was known as a Progressive Republican, voting in favor of such measures as women's suffrage and the direct election of Senators. While in Boston, Coolidge became an ally, and then a liegeman, of then U.S. Senator Winthrop Murray Crane who controlled the western faction of the Massachusetts Republican Party; Crane's party rival in the east of the commonwealth was U.S. Senator Henry Cabot Lodge. Coolidge forged another key strategic alliance with Guy Currier, who had served in both state houses and had the social distinction, wealth, personal charm and broad circle of friends which Coolidge lacked, and which would have a lasting impact on his political career. In 1907, he was elected to a second term, and in the 1908 session Coolidge was more outspoken, though not in a leadership position.\n\nInstead of vying for another term in the State House, Coolidge returned home to his growing family and ran for mayor of Northampton when the incumbent Democrat retired. He was well liked in the town, and defeated his challenger by a vote of 1,597 to 1,409. During his first term (1910 to 1911), he increased teachers' salaries and retired some of the city's debt while still managing to effect a slight tax decrease. He was renominated in 1911, and defeated the same opponent by a slightly larger margin.\n\nIn 1911, the State Senator for the Hampshire County area retired and successfully encouraged Coolidge to run for his seat for the 1912 session; Coolidge defeated his Democratic opponent by a large margin. At the start of that term, he became chairman of a committee to arbitrate the \"Bread and Roses\" strike by the workers of the American Woolen Company in Lawrence, Massachusetts. After two tense months, the company agreed to the workers' demands, in a settlement proposed by the committee. A major issue affecting Massachusetts Republicans that year was the party split between the progressive wing, which favored Theodore Roosevelt, and the conservative wing, which favored William Howard Taft. Although he favored some progressive measures, Coolidge refused to leave the Republican party. When the new Progressive Party declined to run a candidate in his state senate district, Coolidge won reelection against his Democratic opponent by an increased margin.\n\nIn the 1913 session, Coolidge enjoyed renowned success in arduously navigating to passage the Western Trolley Act, which connected Northampton with a dozen similar industrial communities in western Massachusetts. Coolidge intended to retire after his second term as was the custom, but when the President of the State Senate, Levi H. Greenwood, considered running for Lieutenant Governor, Coolidge decided to run again for the Senate in the hopes of being elected as its presiding officer. Although Greenwood later decided to run for reelection to the Senate, he was defeated primarily due to his opposition to women's suffrage; Coolidge was in favor of the women's vote, won his own re-election and with Crane's help, assumed the presidency of a closely divided Senate. After his election in January 1914, Coolidge delivered a published and frequently quoted speech entitled \"Have Faith in Massachusetts\", which summarized his philosophy of government.\n\nCoolidge's speech was well received, and he attracted some admirers on its account; towards the end of the term, many of them were proposing his name for nomination to lieutenant governor. After winning reelection to the Senate by an increased margin in the 1914 elections, Coolidge was reelected unanimously to be President of the Senate. Coolidge's supporters, led by fellow Amherst alumnus Frank Stearns, encouraged him again to run for lieutenant governor. Stearns, an executive with the Boston department store R. H. Stearns, became another key ally, and began a publicity campaign on Coolidge's behalf before he announced his candidacy at the end of the 1915 legislative session.\n\nCoolidge entered the primary election for lieutenant governor and was nominated to run alongside gubernatorial candidate Samuel W. McCall. Coolidge was the leading vote-getter in the Republican primary, and balanced the Republican ticket by adding a western presence to McCall's eastern base of support. McCall and Coolidge won the 1915 election to their respective one-year terms, with Coolidge defeating his opponent by more than 50,000 votes.\n\nIn Massachusetts, the lieutenant governor does not preside over the state Senate, as is the case in many other states; nevertheless, as lieutenant governor, Coolidge was a deputy governor functioning as administrative inspector and was a member of the governor's council. He was also chairman of the finance committee and the pardons committee. As a full-time elected official, Coolidge discontinued his law practice in 1916, though his family continued to live in Northampton. McCall and Coolidge were both reelected in 1916 and again in 1917. When McCall decided that he would not stand for a fourth term, Coolidge announced his intention to run for governor.\n\nCoolidge was unopposed for the Republican nomination for Governor of Massachusetts in 1918. He and his running mate, Channing Cox, a Boston lawyer and Speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, ran on the previous administration's record: fiscal conservatism, a vague opposition to Prohibition, support for women's suffrage, and support for American involvement in World War I. The issue of the war proved divisive, especially among Irish and German Americans. Coolidge was elected by a margin of 16,773 votes over his opponent, Richard H. Long, in the smallest margin of victory of any of his statewide campaigns.\n\nIn 1919, in reaction to a plan of the policemen of the Boston Police Department to register with a union, Police Commissioner Edwin U. Curtis announced that such an act would not be tolerated. In August of that year, the American Federation of Labor issued a charter to the Boston Police Union. Curtis declared the union's leaders were guilty of insubordination and would be relieved of duty, but indicated he would cancel their suspension if the union was dissolved by September 4. The mayor of Boston, Andrew Peters, convinced Curtis to delay his action for a few days, but with no results, and Curtis suspended the union leaders on September 8. The following day, about three-quarters of the policemen in Boston went on strike. Coolidge, tacitly but fully in support of Curtis' position, closely monitored the situation but initially deferred to the local authorities. He anticipated that only a resulting measure of lawlessness could sufficiently prompt the public to understand and appreciate the controlling principle – that a policeman does not strike. That night and the next, there was sporadic violence and rioting in the unruly city. Peters, concerned about sympathy strikes by the firemen and others, called up some units of the Massachusetts National Guard stationed in the Boston area pursuant to an old and obscure legal authority, and relieved Curtis of duty.\n\nCoolidge, sensing the severity of circumstances were then in need of his intervention, conferred with Crane's operative, William Butler, and then acted. He called up more units of the National Guard, restored Curtis to office, and took personal control of the police force. Curtis proclaimed that all of the strikers were fired from their jobs, and Coolidge called for a new police force to be recruited.\nThat night Coolidge received a telegram from AFL leader Samuel Gompers. \"Whatever disorder has occurred\", Gompers wrote, \"is due to Curtis's order in which the right of the policemen has been denied…\" Coolidge publicly answered Gompers's telegram, denying any justification whatsoever for the strike – and his response launched him into the national consciousness. Newspapers across the nation picked up on Coolidge's statement and he became the newest hero to opponents of the strike. In the midst of the First Red Scare, many Americans were terrified of the spread of communist revolution, like those that had taken place in Russia, Hungary, and Germany. While Coolidge had lost some friends among organized labor, conservatives across the nation had seen a rising star. Although he usually acted with deliberation, the Boston police strike gave him a national reputation as a decisive leader, and as a strict enforcer of law and order.\n\nCoolidge and Cox were renominated for their respective offices in 1919. By this time Coolidge's supporters (especially Stearns) had publicized his actions in the Police Strike around the state and the nation and some of Coolidge's speeches were published in book form. He faced the same opponent as in 1918, Richard Long, but this time Coolidge defeated him by 125,101 votes, more than seven times his margin of victory from a year earlier. His actions in the police strike, combined with the massive electoral victory, led to suggestions that Coolidge run for president in 1920.\n\nBy the time Coolidge was inaugurated on January 2, 1919, the First World War had ended, and Coolidge pushed the legislature to give a $100 bonus () to Massachusetts veterans. He also signed a bill reducing the work week for women and children from fifty-four hours to forty-eight, saying, \"We must humanize the industry, or the system will break down.\" He signed into law a budget that kept the tax rates the same, while trimming $4 million from expenditures, thus allowing the state to retire some of its debt.\n\nCoolidge also wielded the veto pen as governor. His most publicized veto prevented an increase in legislators' pay by 50%. Although Coolidge was personally opposed to Prohibition, he vetoed a bill in May 1920 that would have allowed the sale of beer or wine of 2.75% alcohol or less, in Massachusetts in violation of the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. \"Opinions and instructions do not outmatch the Constitution,\" he said in his veto message. \"Against it, they are void.\"\n\nAt the 1920 Republican National Convention, most of the delegates were selected by state party conventions, not primaries. As such, the field was divided among many local favorites. Coolidge was one such candidate, and while he placed as high as sixth in the voting, the powerful party bosses running the convention, primarily the party's U.S. Senators, never considered him seriously. After ten ballots, the bosses and then the delegates settled on Senator Warren G. Harding of Ohio as their nominee for president. When the time came to select a vice presidential nominee, the bosses also made and announced their decision on whom they wanted – Sen. Irvine Lenroot of Wisconsin – and then prematurely departed after his name was put forth, relying on the rank and file to confirm their decision. A delegate from Oregon, Wallace McCamant, having read \"Have Faith in Massachusetts\", proposed Coolidge for vice president instead. The suggestion caught on quickly with the masses starving for an act of independence from the absent bosses, and Coolidge was unexpectedly nominated.\n\nThe Democrats nominated another Ohioan, James M. Cox, for president and the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Franklin D. Roosevelt, for vice president. The question of the United States joining the League of Nations was a major issue in the campaign, as was the unfinished legacy of Progressivism. Harding ran a \"front-porch\" campaign from his home in Marion, Ohio, but Coolidge took to the campaign trail in the Upper South, New York, and New England – his audiences carefully limited to those familiar with Coolidge and those placing a premium upon concise and short speeches. On November 2, 1920, Harding and Coolidge were victorious in a landslide, winning more than 60 percent of the popular vote, including every state outside the South. They also won in Tennessee, the first time a Republican ticket had won a Southern state since Reconstruction.\n\nThe U.S. vice presidency did not carry many official duties, but Coolidge was invited by President Harding to attend cabinet meetings, making him the first vice president to do so. He gave a number of unremarkable speeches around the country.\n\nAs the U.S. vice president, Coolidge and his vivacious wife Grace were invited to quite a few parties, where the legend of \"Silent Cal\" was born. It is from this time that most of the jokes and anecdotes involving Coolidge originate. Although Coolidge was known to be a skilled and effective public speaker, in private he was a man of few words and was commonly referred to as \"Silent Cal\". A possibly apocryphal story has it that a matron, seated next to him at a dinner, said to him, \"I made a bet today that I could get more than two words out of you.\" He replied, \"You lose.\" Dorothy Parker, upon learning that Coolidge had died, reportedly remarked, \"How can they tell?\" Coolidge often seemed uncomfortable among fashionable Washington society; when asked why he continued to attend so many of their dinner parties, he replied, \"Got to eat somewhere.\" Alice Roosevelt Longworth, a leading Republican wit, underscored Coolidge's silence and his dour personality: \"When he wished he were elsewhere, he pursed his lips, folded his arms, and said nothing. He looked then precisely as though he had been weaned on a pickle.\"\n\nAs president, Coolidge's reputation as a quiet man continued. \"The words of a President have an enormous weight,\" he would later write, \"and ought not to be used indiscriminately.\" Coolidge was aware of his stiff reputation; indeed, he cultivated it. \"I think the American people want a solemn ass as a President,\" he once told Ethel Barrymore, \"and I think I will go along with them.\" Some historians would later suggest that Coolidge's image was created deliberately as a campaign tactic, while others believe his withdrawn and quiet behavior to be natural, deepening after the death of his son in 1924.\n\nOn August 2, 1923, President Harding died unexpectedly in San Francisco while on a speaking tour of the western United States. Vice President Coolidge was in Vermont visiting his family home, which had neither electricity nor a telephone, when he received word by messenger of Harding's death. The new president dressed, said a prayer, and came downstairs to greet the reporters who had assembled. His father, a notary public and justice of the peace, administered the oath of office in the family's parlor by the light of a kerosene lamp at 2:47 a.m. on August 3, 1923; President Coolidge then went back to bed.\n\nCoolidge returned to Washington the next day, and was sworn in again by Justice Adolph A. Hoehling Jr. of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, to forestall any questions about the authority of a state official to administer a federal oath. This second oath-taking remained a secret until it was revealed by Harry M. Daugherty in 1932, and confirmed by Hoehling. When Hoehling confirmed Daugherty's story, he indicated that Daugherty, then serving as United States Attorney General, asked him to administer the oath without fanfare at the Willard Hotel. According to Hoehling, he did not question Daugherty's reason for requesting a second oath-taking but assumed it was to resolve any doubt about whether the first swearing-in was valid.\nThe nation initially did not know what to make of Coolidge, who had maintained a low profile in the Harding administration; many had even expected him to be replaced on the ballot in 1924. Coolidge believed that those of Harding's men under suspicion were entitled to every presumption of innocence, taking a methodical approach to the scandals, principally the Teapot Dome scandal, while others clamored for rapid punishment of those they presumed guilty. Coolidge thought the Senate investigations of the scandals would suffice; this was affirmed by the resulting resignations of those involved. He personally intervened in demanding the resignation of Attorney General Harry M. Daugherty after he refused to cooperate with the congressional probe. He then set about to confirm that no loose ends remained in the administration, arranging for a full briefing on the wrongdoing. Harry A. Slattery reviewed the facts with him, Harlan F. Stone analyzed the legal aspects for him and Senator William E. Borah assessed and presented the political factors.\n\nCoolidge addressed Congress when it reconvened on December 6, 1923, giving a speech that supported many of Harding's policies, including Harding's formal budgeting process, the enforcement of immigration restrictions and arbitration of coal strikes ongoing in Pennsylvania. Coolidge's speech was the first presidential speech to be broadcast over the radio. The Washington Naval Treaty was proclaimed just one month into Coolidge's term, and was generally well received in the country. In May 1924, the World War I veterans' World War Adjusted Compensation Act or \"Bonus Bill\" was passed over his veto. Coolidge signed the Immigration Act later that year, which was aimed at restricting southern and eastern European immigration, but appended a signing statement expressing his unhappiness with the bill's specific exclusion of Japanese immigrants. Just before the Republican Convention began, Coolidge signed into law the Revenue Act of 1924, which reduced the top marginal tax rate from 58% to 46%, as well as personal income tax rates across the board, increased the estate tax and bolstered it with a new gift tax.\n\nOn June 2, 1924, Coolidge signed the act granting citizenship to all Native Americans born in the United States. By that time, two-thirds of the people were already citizens, having gained it through marriage, military service (veterans of World War I were granted citizenship in 1919), or the land allotments that had earlier taken place.\n\nThe Republican Convention was held on June 10–12, 1924, in Cleveland, Ohio; Coolidge was nominated on the first ballot. The convention nominated Frank Lowden of Illinois for vice president on the second ballot, but he declined; former Brigadier General Charles G. Dawes was nominated on the third ballot and accepted.\n\nThe Democrats held their convention the next month in New York City. The convention soon deadlocked, and after 103 ballots, the delegates finally agreed on a compromise candidate, John W. Davis, with Charles W. Bryan nominated for vice president. The Democrats' hopes were buoyed when Robert M. La Follette Sr., a Republican senator from Wisconsin, split from the GOP to form a new Progressive Party. Many believed that the split in the Republican party, like the one in 1912, would allow a Democrat to win the presidency.\n\nAfter the conventions and the death of his younger son Calvin, Coolidge became withdrawn; he later said that \"when he [the son] died, the power and glory of the Presidency went with him.\" Even as he mourned, Coolidge ran his standard campaign, not mentioning his opponents by name or maligning them, and delivering speeches on his theory of government, including several that were broadcast over radio. It was the most subdued campaign since 1896, partly because of Coolidge's grief, but also because of his naturally non-confrontational style. The other candidates campaigned in a more modern fashion, but despite the split in the Republican party, the results were similar to those of 1920. Coolidge and Dawes won every state outside the South except Wisconsin, La Follette's home state. Coolidge won the election with 382 electoral votes and the popular vote by 2.5 million over his opponents' combined total.\n\nDuring Coolidge's presidency, the United States experienced a period of rapid economic growth known as the \"Roaring Twenties.\" He left the administration's industrial policy in the hands of his activist Secretary of Commerce, Herbert Hoover, who energetically used government auspices to promote business efficiency and develop airlines and radio. Coolidge disdained regulation, and demonstrated this by appointing commissioners to the Federal Trade Commission and the Interstate Commerce Commission who did little to restrict the activities of businesses under their jurisdiction. The regulatory state under Coolidge was, as one biographer described it, \"thin to the point of invisibility.\"\n\nHistorian Robert Sobel offers some context of Coolidge's laissez-faire ideology, based on the prevailing understanding of federalism during his presidency: \"As Governor of Massachusetts, Coolidge supported wages and hours legislation, opposed child labor, imposed economic controls during World War I, favored safety measures in factories, and even worker representation on corporate boards. Did he support these measures while president? No, because in the 1920s, such matters were considered the responsibilities of state and local governments.\"\n\nCoolidge adopted the taxation policies of his Secretary of the Treasury, Andrew Mellon, who advocated \"scientific taxation\" — the notion that lowering taxes will increase, rather than decrease, government receipts. Congress agreed, and tax rates were reduced in Coolidge's term. In addition to federal tax cuts, Coolidge proposed reductions in federal expenditures and retiring of the federal debt. Coolidge's ideas were shared by the Republicans in Congress, and in 1924, Congress passed the Revenue Act of 1924, which reduced income tax rates and eliminated all income taxation for some two million people. They reduced taxes again by passing the Revenue Acts of 1926 and 1928, all the while continuing to keep spending down so as to reduce the overall federal debt. By 1927, only the wealthiest 2% of taxpayers paid any federal income tax. Federal spending remained flat during Coolidge's administration, allowing one-fourth of the federal debt to be retired in total. State and local governments saw considerable growth, however, surpassing the federal budget in 1927.\n\nPerhaps the most contentious issue of Coolidge's presidency was relief for farmers. Some in Congress proposed a bill designed to fight falling agricultural prices by allowing the federal government to purchase crops to sell abroad at lower prices. Agriculture Secretary Henry C. Wallace and other administration officials favored the bill when it was introduced in 1924, but rising prices convinced many in Congress that the bill was unnecessary, and it was defeated just before the elections that year. In 1926, with farm prices falling once more, Senator Charles L. McNary and Representative Gilbert N. Haugen—both Republicans—proposed the McNary–Haugen Farm Relief Bill. The bill proposed a federal farm board that would purchase surplus production in high-yield years and hold it (when feasible) for later sale or sell it abroad. Coolidge opposed McNary-Haugen, declaring that agriculture must stand \"on an independent business basis,\" and said that \"government control cannot be divorced from political control.\" Instead of manipulating prices, he favored instead Herbert Hoover's proposal to increase profitability by modernizing agriculture. Secretary Mellon wrote a letter denouncing the McNary-Haugen measure as unsound and likely to cause inflation, and it was defeated.\n\nAfter McNary-Haugen's defeat, Coolidge supported a less radical measure, the Curtis-Crisp Act, which would have created a federal board to lend money to farm co-operatives in times of surplus; the bill did not pass. In February 1927, Congress took up the McNary-Haugen bill again, this time narrowly passing it, and Coolidge vetoed it. In his veto message, he expressed the belief that the bill would do nothing to help farmers, benefiting only exporters and expanding the federal bureaucracy. Congress did not override the veto, but it passed the bill again in May 1928 by an increased majority; again, Coolidge vetoed it. \"Farmers never have made much money,\" said Coolidge, the Vermont farmer's son. \"I do not believe we can do much about it.\"\n\nCoolidge has often been criticized for his actions during the Great Mississippi Flood of 1927, the worst natural disaster to hit the Gulf Coast until Hurricane Katrina in 2005. Although he did eventually name Secretary Hoover to a commission in charge of flood relief, scholars argue that Coolidge overall showed a lack of interest in federal flood control. Coolidge did not believe that personally visiting the region after the floods would accomplish anything, and that it would be seen as mere political grandstanding. He also did not want to incur the federal spending that flood control would require; he believed property owners should bear much of the cost. On the other hand, Congress wanted a bill that would place the federal government completely in charge of flood mitigation. When Congress passed a compromise measure in 1928, Coolidge declined to take credit for it and signed the bill in private on May 15.\n\nAccording to one biographer, Coolidge was \"devoid of racial prejudice,\" but rarely took the lead on civil rights. Coolidge disliked the Ku Klux Klan and no Klansman is known to have received an appointment from him. In the 1924 presidential election his opponents (Robert La Follette and John Davis), and his running mate Charles Dawes, often attacked the Klan but Coolidge avoided the subject.\n\nCoolidge spoke in favor of the civil rights of African-Americans, saying in his first State of the Union address that their rights were \"just as sacred as those of any other citizen\" under the U.S. Constitution and that it was a \"public and a private duty to protect those rights.\"\n\nCoolidge repeatedly called for laws to make lynching a federal crime (it was already a state crime, though not always enforced). Congress refused to pass any such legislation. On June 2, 1924, Coolidge signed the Indian Citizenship Act, which granted U.S. citizenship to all American Indians living on reservations (those off reservations had long been citizens). On June 6, 1924, Coolidge delivered a commencement address at historically black, non-segregated Howard University, in which he thanked and commended African-Americans for their rapid advances in education and their contributions to U.S. society over the years, as well as their eagerness to render their services as soldiers in the World War, all while being faced with discrimination and prejudices at home.\n\nIn a speech in October 1924, Coolidge stressed tolerance of differences as an American value and thanked immigrants for their contributions to U.S. society, saying that they have \"contributed much to making our country what it is.\" He stated that although the diversity of peoples was a detrimental source of conflict and tension in Europe, it was peculiar for the United States that it was a \"harmonious\" benefit for the country. Coolidge further stated the United States should assist and help immigrants who come to the country, and urged immigrants to reject \"race hatreds\" and \"prejudices\".\n\nCoolidge was neither well versed in nor very interested in world affairs. His focus was directed mainly at American business, especially pertaining to trade, and \"Maintaining the Status Quo.\" Although not an isolationist, he was reluctant to enter into foreign alliances.\n\nCoolidge considered the 1920 Republican victory as a rejection of the Wilsonian position that the United States should join the League of Nations. While not completely opposed to the idea, Coolidge believed the League, as then constituted, did not serve American interests, and he did not advocate U.S. membership. He spoke in favor of the United States joining the Permanent Court of International Justice (World Court), provided that the nation would not be bound by advisory decisions. In 1926, the Senate eventually approved joining the Court (with reservations). The League of Nations accepted the reservations, but it suggested some modifications of its own. The Senate failed to act and so the United States did not join the World Court.\n\nCoolidge authorized the Dawes Plan, a financial plan by Charles Dawes, to provide Germany partial relief from its reparations obligations from World War I. The plan was initially provided stimulus for the German economy. Additionally, Coolidge attempted to pursue further curbs on naval strength following the early successes of Harding's Washington Naval Conference by sponsoring the Geneva Naval Conference in 1927, which failed owing to a French and Italian boycott and ultimate failure of Great Britain and the United States to agree on cruiser tonnages. As a result, the conference was a failure and Congress eventually authorized for increased American naval spending in 1928. The Kellogg–Briand Pact of 1928, named for Coolidge's Secretary of State, Frank B. Kellogg, and French foreign minister Aristide Briand, was also a key peacekeeping initiative. The treaty, ratified in 1929, committed signatories—the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, and Japan—to \"renounce war, as an instrument of national policy in their relations with one another.\" The treaty did not achieve its intended result—the outlawry of war—but it did provide the founding principle for international law after World War II. Coolidge also continued the previous administration's policy of withholding recognition of the Soviet Union.\n\nEfforts were made to normalize ties with post-Revolution Mexico. Coolidge recognized Mexico's new governments under Álvaro Obregón and Plutarco Elías Calles, and continued American support for the elected Mexican government against the National League for the Defense of Religious Liberty during the Cristero War, lifting the arms embargo on that country; he also appointed Dwight Morrow as Ambassador to Mexico with the successful objective to avoid further American conflict with Mexico.\n\nCoolidge's administration would see continuity in the occupation of Nicaragua and Haiti, and an end to the occupation of the Dominican Republic in 1924 as a result of withdrawal agreements finalized during Harding's administration. In 1925, Coolidge ordered the withdrawal of Marines stationed in Nicaragua following perceived stability after the 1924 Nicaraguan general election, but redeployed them there in January 1927 following failed attempts to peacefully resolve the rapid deterioration of political stability and the ensuing Constitutionalist War; Henry L. Stimson was later sent by Coolidge to mediate a peace deal that would end the civil war and extend American military presence in Nicaragua beyond Coolidge's term in office.\n\nTo extend an olive branch to Latin American leaders embittered over America's interventionist policies in Central America and the Caribbean, Coolidge led the U.S. delegation to the Sixth International Conference of American States, January 15–17, 1928, in Havana, Cuba, the only international trip Coolidge made during his presidency. He would be the last sitting American president to visit Cuba until Barack Obama in 2016.\n\nFor Canada, Coolidge authorized the St. Lawrence Seaway, a system of locks and canals that would provide large vessels passage between the Atlantic Ocean and the Great Lakes.\n\nIn the summer of 1927, Coolidge vacationed in the Black Hills of South Dakota, where he engaged in horseback riding and fly fishing and attended rodeos. He made Custer State Park his \"summer White House.\" While on vacation, Coolidge surprisingly issued a terse statement that he would not seek a second full term as president: \"I do not choose to run for President in 1928.\" After allowing the reporters to take that in, Coolidge elaborated. \"If I take another term, I will be in the White House till 1933 … Ten years in Washington is longer than any other man has had it—too long!\" In his memoirs, Coolidge explained his decision not to run: \"The Presidential office takes a heavy toll of those who occupy it and those who are dear to them. While we should not refuse to spend and be spent in the service of our country, it is hazardous to attempt what we feel is beyond our strength to accomplish.\" After leaving office, he and Grace returned to Northampton, where he wrote his memoirs. The Republicans retained the White House in 1928 with a landslide by Herbert Hoover. Coolidge had been reluctant to endorse Hoover as his successor; on one occasion he remarked that \"for six years that man has given me unsolicited advice—all of it bad.\" Even so, Coolidge had no desire to split the party by publicly opposing the nomination of the popular commerce secretary.\n\nAlthough a few of Harding's cabinet appointees were scandal-tarred, Coolidge initially retained all of them, out of an ardent conviction that as successor to a deceased elected president he was obligated to retain Harding's counselors and policies until the next election. He kept Harding's able speechwriter Judson T. Welliver; Stuart Crawford replaced Welliver in November 1925. Coolidge appointed C. Bascom Slemp, a Virginia Congressman and experienced federal politician, to work jointly with Edward T. Clark, a Massachusetts Republican organizer whom he retained from his vice-presidential staff, as Secretaries to the President (a position equivalent to the modern White House Chief of Staff).\n\nPerhaps the most powerful person in Coolidge's Cabinet was Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon, who controlled the administration's financial policies and was regarded by many, including House Minority Leader John Nance Garner, as more powerful than Coolidge himself. Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover also held a prominent place in Coolidge's Cabinet, in part because Coolidge found value in Hoover's ability to win positive publicity with his pro-business proposals. Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes directed Coolidge's foreign policy until he resigned in 1925 following Coolidge's re-election. He was replaced by Frank B. Kellogg, who had previously served as a Senator and as the ambassador to Great Britain. Coolidge made two other appointments following his re-election, with William M. Jardine taking the position of Secretary of Agriculture and John G. Sargent becoming Attorney General. Coolidge did not have a vice president during his first term, but Charles Dawes became vice president during Coolidge's second term, and Dawes and Coolidge clashed over farm policy and other issues.\n\nCoolidge appointed one justice to the Supreme Court of the United States, Harlan Fiske Stone in 1925. Stone was Coolidge's fellow Amherst alumnus, a Wall Street lawyer and conservative Republican. Stone was serving as dean of Columbia Law School when Coolidge appointed him to be attorney general in 1924 to restore the reputation tarnished by Harding's Attorney General, Harry M. Daugherty. It does not appear that Coolidge considered appointing anyone other than Stone, although Stone himself had urged Coolidge to appoint Benjamin N. Cardozo. Stone proved to be a firm believer in judicial restraint and was regarded as one of the court's three liberal justices who would often vote to uphold New Deal legislation. President Franklin D. Roosevelt later appointed Stone to be chief justice.\n\nCoolidge nominated 17 judges to the United States Courts of Appeals, and 61 judges to the United States district courts. He appointed judges to various specialty courts as well, including Genevieve R. Cline, who became the first woman named to the federal judiciary when Coolidge placed her on the United States Customs Court in 1928. Coolidge also signed the Judiciary Act of 1925 into law, allowing the Supreme Court more discretion over its workload.\n\nAfter his presidency, Coolidge retired to the modest rented house on residential Massasoit Street in Northampton before moving to a more spacious home, \"The Beeches.\" He kept a Hacker runabout boat on the Connecticut River and was often observed on the water by local boating enthusiasts. During this period, he also served as chairman of the Non-Partisan Railroad Commission, an entity created by several banks and corporations to survey the country's long-term transportation needs and make recommendations for improvements. He was the honorary president of the American Foundation for the Blind, a director of New York Life Insurance Company, president of the American Antiquarian Society, and a trustee of Amherst College.\n\nCoolidge published his autobiography in 1929 and wrote a syndicated newspaper column, \"Calvin Coolidge Says,\" from 1930 to 1931. Faced with looming defeat in the 1932 presidential election, some Republicans spoke of rejecting Herbert Hoover as their party's nominee, and instead drafting Coolidge to run, but the former president made it clear that he was not interested in running again, and that he would publicly repudiate any effort to draft him, should it come about. Hoover was renominated, and Coolidge made several radio addresses in support of him. Hoover then lost the general election to Coolidge's 1920 vice presidential Democratic opponent Franklin D. Roosevelt in a landslide.\nCoolidge died suddenly from coronary thrombosis at \"The Beeches,\" at 12:45 p.m., January 5, 1933. Shortly before his death, Coolidge confided to an old friend: \"I feel I no longer fit in with these times.\" Coolidge is buried in Plymouth Notch Cemetery, Plymouth Notch, Vermont. The nearby family home is maintained as one of the original buildings on the Calvin Coolidge Homestead District site. The State of Vermont dedicated a new visitors' center nearby to mark Coolidge's 100th birthday on July 4, 1972.\n\nDespite his reputation as a quiet and even reclusive politician, Coolidge made use of the new medium of radio and made radio history several times while president. He made himself available to reporters, giving 520 press conferences, meeting with reporters more regularly than any president before or since. Coolidge's second inauguration was the first presidential inauguration broadcast on radio. On December 6, 1923, he was the first president whose address to Congress was broadcast on radio. Coolidge signed the Radio Act of 1927, which assigned regulation of radio to the newly created Federal Radio Commission. On August 11, 1924, Theodore W. Case, using the Phonofilm sound-on-film process he developed for Lee DeForest, filmed Coolidge on the White House lawn, making Coolidge the first president to appear in a sound film. The title of the DeForest film was \"President Coolidge, Taken on the White House Grounds\". When Charles Lindbergh arrived in Washington on a U.S. Navy ship after his celebrated 1927 trans-Atlantic flight, President Coolidge welcomed him back to the U.S. and a sound-on-film record of the event exists.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22176267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22176267", "title": "Carlos Quintana (boxer)", "text": "Carlos Quintana (boxer)\n\nCarlos Quintana (born November 6, 1976) is a retired Puerto Rican professional boxer. As an amateur Quintana represented Puerto Rico. He debuted as a professional in 1997. On February 24, 2006, he participated in his first professional championship fight, defeating Raul Bejerano for the World Boxing Organization's Latino welterweight championship. His first defense took place on June 24, 2006 when he defeated Joel Julio by unanimous decision in a welterweight title eliminator. In this fight he also won the World Boxing Council's Latino welterweight championship. His first world title fight took place on December 2, 2006, when he fought against Miguel Cotto for the World Boxing Association welterweight title. Cotto won the fight by technical knockout. On February 9, 2008, Quintana challenged Paul Williams for the WBO welterweight championship, winning the fight by unanimous decision. He entered the Light Middleweight division to face Deandre Latimore, knocking Latimore out to win the NABO Light Middleweight championship.\n\nQuintana was born on November 6, 1976 to Arturo Quintana and Adelina Velázquez. He has 7 siblings, six sisters named Aida, Nydia, Awilda, Magdalena, Omayra and Mabel and one brother named Arturo. Quintana is married to Moraima Quintana and lives with her and the couple's four children, three daughters and a son. He uses his property in Moca as a farm, which he maintains when he is not working. Over the course of his life, Quintana has worked administrating a gasoline station and as the owner of a gymnasium. Quintana's training is managed by José Bonilla, who trained him and was a member of his corner staff during fights.\n\nCarlos Quintana was born and raised in Moca, Puerto Rico. He became interested in boxing when he was ten years old and debuted as an amateur five years later. When interviewed Quintana noted that he was winning his fight and enjoy the experience until he received a hit on the troath. After this fight Quintana continued his career, winning multiple national championships in Puerto Rico. In 1996 Quintana was part of the team selected to represent Puerto Rico in the 1996 Summer Olympics. Quintana finished his amateur career with a record of sixty-two wins in seventy fights, with forty-eight of these wins being by knockout.\n\nKnown as \"El Indio\", Quintana turned pro in 1997 and won his first 23 professional fights, including 18 by way of KO.\n\nOn December 5, 2003 Quintana competed against Candy Robertson in a ten-round fight. Quintana controlled the fight's tempo throughout the contest, which featured several holds. In the seventh round Robertson was docked a point, after losing his mouthpiece on several occasions. The fight ended in the eight round, when Quintana connected several combinations to Robertson's head after trapping him in one of the ring's corners, one of these punches connected on his opponent's face and he collapsed unable to recover before the count of ten. On March 5, 2004 Quintana fought against Edwin Cassiani in the undercard of a fight organized in Pala, California. Quintana scored the fight's first knockdown in the first round, when he connected a combination to his adversary's body. Following this round both fighter traded combinations. In the third round Quintana connected six consecutive punches to Cassiani's face, which made him collapse to the ring's canvas, the referee immediately stopped the fight.\n\nQuintana's next fight was against Kemal Kolonivic in a fight that took place on August 24, 2004. Kolonivic was used as a late replacement and was scheduled to fight in the undercard of a card that included Jose Nieves vs. Alberto Ontiveros. Quintana won the fight by unanimous decision. The judges awarded him scores of 80-72, 80-72 and 79-73.\n\nQuintana's next fight was against Nurhan Suleyman, on February 25, 2005. The card was organized in Miami, Oklahoma, and was scheduled for ten rounds. Early in the first round Quintana connected a solid punch on Suleyman's chin, and subsequently began boxing while his opponent followed him around the ring, he closed the first round connecting two combinations. This pattern continued in the second round when Quintana relied on boxing and connecting jabs, the round closed with both men trading punches. Quintana controlled the fight's tempo in the third and began the fourth round on the offensive scoring solid punches while trading combinations with his adversary, with one minute remaining in the round Quintana scored a knockdown and the fight was stopped seconds after when Suleyman didn't respond to his attack.\n\nOn July 12, 2005 Quintana was scheduled to fight against Francisco Campos. Quintana began the fight on the offensive, connecting punches while boxing. In the third round of his punches connected solidly on Campos' chin. In the fourth round Campos tried to fight inside, but was countered by his opponent's strategy. Santos began the fifth round on the offensive, while Quintana used combinations to the body. Quintana began the sixth by connecting a solid punch that made his opponent switch to a defensive stance. This pattern continued until the round ended, the fight was stopped between rounds when Santos informed the referee that he was unable to continue, thus awarding Quintana a technical knockout victory. On February 24, 2006, Quintana had his first professional championship fight, when he fought against Raul Bejerano of Argentina for the vacant World Boxing Organization's Latino welterweight title, in an event that took place in Ponce, Puerto Rico. In the tenth round Quintana scored a knockdown when one of his punches injured Berejano. Once his opponent recovered he continued in the offensive and connected several combinations before the fight was stopped by technical knockout. Prior to this fight Berjerano had never been knocked down in his career.\n\nOn June 24, 2006 Quintana fought against Joel Julio of Colombia in a welterweight title eliminator sanctioned by the World Boxing Association. The boxing card was organized at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas. Quitana dominated the fight's tempo throughout the contest relying on his boxing skills while Julio tried to utilize his strength. The judges awarded Quintana a unanimous decision with scores of 118-110, 117-111 and 115-112. In this match Quintana defended the WBO's Latino welterweight title and won the World Boxing Council's Latino welterweight title. This was regarded as one of Quintana's most important fights, prompting future championship opportunities.\n\nOn December 2, 2006, Quintana fought fellow undefeated Puerto Rican Cotto, who moved up in weight from Jr. Welterweight. Quintana started the fight boxing and connecting right jabs, the round concluded with both users exchanging combinations. This pattern continued in the second round, with Cotto connecting two solid body punches to Quintana. Quintana began the third round connecting a solid jab to Cotto's face, but the round concluded with Cotto connecting several combinations to the body. In the fifth round Cotto had control of the fight's tempo, and connected several combinations to the body, scoring a knockdown while switching between the orthodox and southpaw stances. Between rounds Quintana indicated that he was unable to continue, the corner wanted to continue but Quintana was unresponsive when the referee asked if he wanted to proceed. The fight was stopped and Cotto was declared the winner, when interviewed Quintana noted that he: \"underestimated his velocity. He has very quick hands, you have to give all the respect to Miguel, he's very fast and he hit me pretty good.\"\n\nWilliams, the reigning World Boxing Organization welterweight champion, had been scheduled for a unification bout against IBF welterweight champion Kermit Cintron on February 2, 2008. However, Cintron injured his right hand in November 2007, and was forced to pull out of the fight. After Judah reportedly turned down an offer to take Cintron's place, an offer was instead extended to Quintana. The fight took place on February 9, 2008 and Quintana scored an impressive win over Williams, outboxing him in the bout.\n\nOn June 7, 2008, Carlos Quintana was defeated by Paul Williams in the first round at 2:15 to lose the welterweight title.\n\nQuintana returned to action on October 25, 2008, this time competing in the light middleweight division. His first fight in this category was against Joshua Onyango, serving as the main event of a card titled \"Final Decision\" which was held in Arecibo, Puerto Rico. He was able to establish control of the fight's tempo from an early stage, eventually scoring a knockdown in the third. In the fourth round, the referee decided to stop the contest when Onyango was unable to respond to a combination, awarding Quintana a technical knockout victory. Following the outcome of this fight, he announced his decision to move up in weight in a definitive manner.\n\nQuintana would return to the welterweight division on April 11, 2010 to take on WBC welterweight champion, Andre Berto for the latter's WBC belt. In a rough and rugged slug-fest, Quintana was eventually overwhelmed by the speed and power of the younger Berto and would go on to lose the fight by an 8th-round TKO.\n\nOn May 5, 2012 Quintana defeated Deandre Latimore by KO in the 6th round to win the NABO light middleweight title.\n\nIn November 2012, Quintana (29-4, 23KOs) finally decided to call it a day. The Puerto Rican boxer announced his retirement after suffering a fourth-round TKO defeat to Keith Thurman (19-0, 18KOs) at the Citizens Business Bank Arena in Ontario, California on the 24th of that month. Throughout his career he won 29 of 33 professional contests, only coming up short against fellow world-class fighters: Miguel Cotto, Paul Williams, Andre Berto and Keith Thurman.\n\n\n!colspan=\"3\" style=\"background:#C1D8FF;\"| Regional titles\n"}
{"id": "29609744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29609744", "title": "Catherine Read", "text": "Catherine Read\n\nKatherine Read (or Catherine) (1723—1778), was a Scottish portrait-painter\n\nRead was born in Dundee Scotland, on 3 February 1723, to Alexander and Elizabeth Read, and one of thirteen children of an affluent Forfarshire family. She may have received her education in Edinburgh. Her mother was the sister of Sir John Wedderburn, a man who’d fought in the Jacobite rising of 1745, and whose daughters were cared for by Read after his execution.\n\nWhen the war ended at the Battle of Culloden and with family friends fleeing to France, Read’s family was prompted to follow suit for their association and support of the Jacobite cause through her uncle. Through their connections of the gentry, they were given sanctuary in Paris, France that same year and introduced to the painter Robert Strange -whom is speculated to be Read’s teacher and introduction into the French artistic sphere. There she studied other works of art and improved her skills with little hindrance or instruction; it would have been hard for her to have been accepted into an academy class as a woman, let alone a foreigner whose family had a price on their heads for aiding and supporting a cause against the King of England.\n\nThis period was not to last, however, as she fled to Rome in 1750 along with a majority of the Jacobites that’d sought refuge in Paris. While there, she became friends with members of the Roman Catholic Church, often commissioned to recreate master paintings in oil or pastel for those in higher positions of the church’s hierarchy. One of these faithful patrons, Cardinal Albani, allowed Read to copy some of his Carriera portraits from his personal collection, which ultimately led the man to sit for her himself.\n\nShe remained in Rome until deciding to venture to England in 1753, with the blessing of Albani -who managed to help her keep face regardless of her family’s past alignment in the war. This era was not only filled with a healthy stream of patronage and commissions, as Read was communicating and submitting samples to the Society of Arts for their collection and approval of fixing pastels. However, her methods, when compared to fellow artist Sebastien Jurine’s own, were considered inferior as she used a different type of pastel than he.\n\nIn 1764, Read was on the road back to Paris for commissioned portraits of Madame Elisabeth through the Dauphin. Her work was shown by the Free Society (1761-1768) and the Society of Artists (1760-1772) -of which she became an honorary member in 1769 along with the two other female pastel artists Mary Benwell and Mary Black in response to the Royal Academy accepting Angelica Kauffman and Mary Moser into their respective fold. Later, after a failed petition to the king, Read left to join the Royal Academy and was expelled from the Society as consequence.\n\nNew pastel artists rose into the public’s view and Miss Read no longer commanded such a following. In 1771, she left England with her niece, Helena Beatson, to sail to India to paint the portraits of the English Officers living there. Her health deteriorated while abroad and Miss Read found herself on a boat back to England in 1778, unfortunately dying while on the voyage.\n\nRead was for some years a fashionable artist in London, working in oils, crayons, and miniature. From 1760 she exhibited almost annually with either the Incorporated Society of Artists, the Free Society of Artist, or the Royal Academy, sending chiefly portraits of ladies and children of the aristocracy, which she painted with much grace and refinement.\n\nRead's talent for portraiture was highly regarded in her day, and was the subject of an epistle by Tobias Smollett:\n\nLet candid Justice our attention lead,\nto the soft crayon of the graceful Read.\n\nand praised by William Hayley.\n\nMiss Read resided in St. James's Place, London until 1766, when she removed to Jermyn Street. In 1771 she went to India with her niece, Helena Beatson, a clever young artist, who there married, in 1777, (Sir) Charles Oakeley, bart., governor of Madras. She is reported as being in that country in 1775 and 1777, and as dying at sea near Madras.\n\nHer death is recorded as 15 December 1778.\n\nIn 1763 she exhibited a portrait of Queen Charlotte with the infant Prince of Wales, and in 1765 one of the latter with his brother, Prince Frederick.\n\nOn resuming her practice, Miss Read settled in Welbeck Street. Many of her portraits were well engraved by Valentine Green and James Watson, and a pair of plates, by J. Finlayson, of the celebrated Gunning sisters, the Duchess of Argyll and the Countess of Coventry, remained popular.\n\nSome works by Read have at one time been attributed to Joshua Reynolds. A portrait of Lady Georgiana Spencer has been noted as one of her finest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20811415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20811415", "title": "Cephalic presentation", "text": "Cephalic presentation\n\nA cephalic presentation or head presentation or head-first presentation is a situation at childbirth where the fetus is in a longitudinal lie and the head enters the pelvis first; the most common form of cephalic presentation is the vertex presentation where the occiput is the leading part (the part that first enters the birth canal). All other presentations are abnormal (malpresentations) which are either more difficult to deliver or not deliverable by natural means.\n\nThe movement of the fetus to cephalic presentation is called \"head engagement\". It occurs in the third trimester. In head engagement, the fetal head descends into the pelvic cavity so that only a small part (or none) of it can be felt abdominally. The perineum and cervix are further flattened and the head may be felt vaginally. Head engagement is known colloquially as the \"baby drop\", and in natural medicine as the \"lightening\" because of the release of pressure on the upper abdomen and renewed ease in breathing. However, it severely reduces bladder capacity, increases pressure on the pelvic floor and the rectum, and the mother may experience the perpetual sensation that the fetus will \"fall out\" at any moment.\n\nIn the vertex presentation the head is flexed and the occiput leads the way. This is the most common configuration and seen at term in 95% of singletons. If the head is extended, the face becomes the leading part. Face presentations account for less than 1% of presentations at term. In the sinicipital presentation the large fontanelle is the presenting part; with further labor the head will either flex or extend more so that in the end this presentation leads to a vertex or face presentation. In the brow presentation the head is slightly extended, but less than in the face presentation. The chin presentation is a variant of the face presentation with maximum extension of the head.\nNon-cephalic presentations are the breech presentation (3.5%) and the shoulder presentation (0.5%).\n\nThe vertex is the area of the vault bounded anteriorly by the anterior fontanelle and the coronal suture, posteriorly by the posterior fontanelle and the lambdoid suture and laterally by 2 lines passing through the parietal eminences.\n\nIn the vertex presentation the occiput typically is anterior and thus in an optimal position to negotiate the pelvic curve by extending the head. In an occiput posterior position, labor becomes prolonged and more operative interventions are deemed necessary. The prevalence of the persistent occiput posterior is given as 4.7%\n\nThe vertex presentations are further classified according to the position of the occiput, it being right, left, or transverse, and anterior or posterior: \n\nThe Occipito-Anterior position is ideal for birth - it means that the baby is lined up so as to fit through the pelvis as easily as possible. The baby is head down, facing the spine, with its back anterior. In this position, the baby's chin is tucked onto its chest, so that the smallest part of its head will be applied to the cervix first. The position is usually \"Left Occiput Anterior\", or LOA. Occasionally, the baby may be \"Right Occiput Anterior\", or ROA.\n\nFactors that predispose to face presentation are prematurity, macrosomia, anencephaly and other malformations, cephalopelvic disproportion, and polyhydramnios. In an uncomplicated face presentation duration of labor is not altered. Perinatal losses with face presentation occur with traumatic version and extraction and midforceps procedures Duff indicates that the prevalence of face presentations is about 1/500–600., while Benedetti et al. found it to be 1/1,250 term deliveries.\n\nFace presentations are classified according to the position of the chin (mentum):\n\nWhile some consider the brow presentation as an intermediate stage towards the face presentation, others disagree. Thus Bhal et al. indicated that both conditions are about equally common (1/994 face and 1/755 brow positions), and that prematurity was more common with face while postmaturity was more common with brow positions.\n\nThe Oskie presentation is similar to the Occipito-Anterior position, where the baby is head down, facing the spine, with back on the ventral side of the uterus; however, in this position, while the torso is aligned with the mother's longitudinal axis, the legs of the fetus are extended straight along the frontal axis of the mother, as if the baby is creating a right angle with its body. For the Oskie position to occur the baby's head must be far down the pelvis in order to allow room for leg extension, typically the arms are bent, tucked against the baby's body. There are no known complications for labor and delivery. This presentation is rare and is not well researched.\n\nThe piriform (pear-shaped) morphology of the uterus has been given as the major cause for the finding that most singletons favor the cephalic presentation at term. The fundus is larger and thus a fetus will adapt its position so that the bulkier and more movable podalic pole makes use of it, while the head moves to the opposite site. Factors that influence this positioning include the gestational age (earlier in gestation breech presentations are more common as the head is relatively bigger), size of the head, malformations, amount of amniotic fluid, presence of multiple gestations, presence of tumors, and others.\n\nTwo-thirds of all vertex presentations are LOA, possibly because of the asymmetry created by the descending colon that is on the left side of the pelvis .\n\nUsually performing the Leopold maneuvers will demonstrate the presentation and possibly the position of the fetus. Ultrasound examination delivers the precise diagnosis and may indicate possible causes of a malpresentation. On vaginal examination, the leading part of the fetus becomes identifiable after the amniotic sac has been broken and the head is descending in the pelvis.\n\nMany factors determine the optimal way to deliver a baby. A vertex presentation is the ideal situation for a vaginal birth, however, occiput posterior positions tend to proceed more slowly, often requiring an intervention in the form of forceps, vacuum extraction, or Cesarean section. In a large study, a majority of brow presentations were delivered by Cesarean section, however, because of 'postmaturity', factors other than labour dynamics may have played a role. Most face presentations can be delivered vaginally as long as the chin is anterior; there is no increase in fetal or maternal mortality. Mento-posterior positions cannot be delivered vaginally in most cases (unless rotated) and are candidates for Cesarean section in contemporary management.\n"}
{"id": "41624037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41624037", "title": "Christopher of Albania", "text": "Christopher of Albania\n\nArchbishop Christopher of Albania (, secular name Sotir Kissi; 1881, Berat - June 16, 1959) was the primate of the Orthodox Autocephalous Church of Albania from 1937 to 1948. In 1959 he was found dead by poison.\n\nKisi was born in Berat in 1881. In 1937 he became the primate of the Orthodox Autocephalous Church of Albania as successor of Visarion Xhuvani, as authorized by the Patriarchate of Constantinople, which recognized the Holy Synod of the Church of Albania in April 1937. During World War II Kisi backed up the initiative of Italy and the Vatican (subsequently aborted) to unite the Orthodox Church with the Uniate Church. Kisi and the OACA high hierarchy, in contrast to the stand of many Orthodox clergy and laity, were supportive to the anti-Communist resistance movement after World War II and had previously welcomed the decision from German authorities of extending the jurisdiction of Albanian church to the Diocese of Prizren and newly created bishoprics of Peshkopia and Struga.\n\nKisi was found dead, as a result of poisoning, in 1958. His place as a primate was taken by Communist regime faithful, Pais Vodica.\n"}
{"id": "15319199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15319199", "title": "Conscious automatism", "text": "Conscious automatism\n\nConscious automatism (C.A.) is a position on the philosophic question that asks whether determinism, as distinguished from “free will”, can be considered the sole operant principle in human decision making.\n\nConscious automatism holds that we human beings, like the other animals we generally consider our inferiors, are conscious but respond as automata to our prior conditioning (within our physiological powers and limitations) in all of our apparently “willed” decisions. According to this view, the “freedom” we exercise in decision making, a uniqueness that convention leads us to believe distinguishes us from the other mammals, is illusory, for our motives are all, without exception, caused, in the manner we concede that all other changes are causally initiated in the world around us.\n\nThus in epistemology C.A. is the logical conclusion of a strictly determinist explanation of human conduct and denies that our decision making is free in any sense from causal determinants. Conscious automatism, in refusing the compromise long in vogue among philosophers between freedom and determinism, has as its most disturbing corollary the abandonment of ethicists’ traditional reliance upon the notion of moral responsibility as the foundation of most moral systems and criminal justice institutions. It is, therefore, one of the most iconoclastic principles adduced in the history of moral philosophy as well, having profound practical societal consequences if widely accepted.\n\nThe term was recently given significant new substance in the book \"Grandest Illusion: The Seductive Myth of Free Will\", by Norman Haughness, which states forcefully the case for acknowledging the power of exceptionless determinism in human behavior. In Grandest Illusion the arguments claiming that the human will is free in any or all cases from total dependence on causal antecedents are analyzed and criticized in an overtly partisan effort to reveal the flaws in their coherence and logical validity. This in contrast to most recent literature in the field, well-exemplified by \"The Oxford Handbook of Free Will\", edited by Robert Kane, whose contributors without exception take positions supporting voluntarism or maintaining agnostic reservations.\n\nHaughness contends that freedom of willing is no more than a faith, which he calls “voluntarism“. He claims that, despite having little empirical basis except in unexamined intuition, free will has been accommodated and, indeed, vigorously defended by philosophers in large part because its abandonment is emotively an extremely repellent notion, suggesting loss of personal autonomy to nearly all who contemplate it. Equally intolerable to many is the fear that, without it, moral responsibility would lose its customarily revered place in society and moral chaos would thereupon necessarily ensue. This problem he addresses only briefly, urging that it is only by changing prior conditioning that conduct can be made conducive to decriminalizing society rather than, as at present, by reliance on ethical norms that are simply not present or are defective in most offenders.\n\nThe term “conscious automata” was employed as long ago as 1874, by Thomas H. Huxley in a famous address he delivered in Belfast titled \"On the Hypothesis that Animals are Automata, and Its History\". But Huxley’s version of conscious automatism was a compromise. He acknowledged the validity of David Hume’s attack on the popular but illusory notion of a causal nexus, extending it to a firm denial that laws of nature state what “must” occur (admitting only that they state what “will” occur, a distinction that has remained unclear to many). Huxley saw this as an opening to deny that there exist any sort of “iron laws” that necessitate human conduct. He believed in such abstractions as “spirit” and insisted that we possess enough “freedom” to “do our duty” and “do as we like,” obvious exceptions to a thoroughgoing determinist view of human motivation. Thus, at bottom he supported only a conscious semi-automatism similar to the ambiguous views of most contemporary philosophers.\n\n"}
{"id": "13673503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13673503", "title": "Darren Varley", "text": "Darren Varley\n\nDarren Varley (1973–1999) was a man from Alberta, Canada who died after a scuffle with police in a jail cell in Alberta after he was arrested for drunkenness.\n\nBorn in Pincher Creek, Alberta, Darley was a truck driver who lived in Pincher Creek his entire life.\n\nOn October 2, 1999, he had just finished a long day at work and headed to a local pub where he was to meet his sister. After several hours of drinking, Varley had become intoxicated. At the same time, RCMP Constable Michael Ferguson had just finished taking two prospective officers for an extensive ride in his police car, showing them the ins-and-outs of the area. He dropped them off just an hour before the pubs closed at 3 a.m., according to the Crown.\n\nFerguson received a call from the RCMP dispatcher based in Red Deer about an intoxicated complainant, Darren Varley, reporting a missing person. Varley phoned from the local hospital where he was checking on his friend, Tuckey, who had been just beaten up in a fight in which both men had been involved in with two other men. The fight had occurred in the pub parking lot as a result of Varley knocking down one of the men's wife.\n\nThe drunken Varley had given the RCMP dispatcher the first statement on what he incorrectly believed to be a missing woman, Chandelle. Constable Ferguson decided to arrest Darren Varley for public drunkenness and bring him to the local police detachment.\n\nAfter placing Varley in the police car, Constable Ferguson returned to the hospital to investigate the missing persons report. Within minutes Varley had kicked out the police car window and attempted to slide out of the vehicle.\n\nWhile at the police department, and booking Varley into the last jail cell, Constable Ferguson stated that Varley had pulled his bulletproof vest over his head and gained momentary control of his pistol through what experts testified was a little-known defect in the holster design. An altercation occurred at which time Ferguson regained enough control of the gun to fire two quick shots. One grazed the side of Varley's abdomen and the other shot pierced his skull just behind the ear. Varley, now breathing with severe difficulty, lay wounded on the cell floor while Constable Ferguson called the ambulance, which attended moments later. Varley was airlifted to a Calgary hospital where he was pronounced dead.\n\nAfter two attempts by the Crown which both ended in mistrials from hung juries to try Michael Ferguson for the killing of Darren Varley, a third attempt was made to try him for manslaughter. Five years after the killing of Darren Varley, Constable Michael Ferguson was found guilty and convicted of manslaughter.\n\nThe mandatory sentence for manslaughter in Canada, is a four-year closed prison term in incidents involving a firearm. Justice Ged Hawco, ruled to make a constitutional exemption to the firearm clause because the police revolver was present as a result of Constable Ferguson's duties and allow Michael Ferguson to serve an exceptional two-year less a day term in his own home. Justice Hawco came to the conclusion that Michael Ferguson fired the first shot in self-defense, but the second shot was unnecessary.\n\nJustice Hawco stated in his Reasons for Judgment, \"If I were to place Mr. Ferguson on this ladder of moral culpability, given the facts which the jury must have concluded, he would be on the very lower rungs.\"\n\nOn September 26, 2006, the Alberta Court of Appeal overruled Justice Ged Hawko's decision to allow Ferguson the opportunity to serve his sentence at his house. The court ruled that Ferguson must serve a four-year prison term.\nFamily and supporters of Darren Varley expressed disappointment that he may be granted nearly immediate parole, having considered to have served nearly two years under house arrest which would be credited to his prison sentence.\n\nOn September 25, 2006, Ferguson began a four-year prison sentence.\n\nBy early 2007 Ferguson was out on parole and the Supreme Court had agreed to hear Ferguson's appeal. In 2008, the appeal struck down his sentence. According to his lawyer, Noel O'Brien, the decision was based on the conclusion that \"where a mandatory minimum sentence amounts to 'cruel and unusual punishment' and thus a violation under s. 12 of the Charter Of Rights, the only option open to a trial judge is to strike down the legislation itself, even if the mandatory punishment would be constitutional in the vast majority of cases. The ruling means that if a law creating a mandatory minimum sentence is unconstitutional for \"any\" individual, it will be unconstitutional for \"all\" individuals.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1237612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237612", "title": "Delta rule", "text": "Delta rule\n\nIn machine learning, the Delta rule is a gradient descent learning rule for updating the weights of the inputs to artificial neurons in a single-layer neural network. It is a special case of the more general backpropagation algorithm. For a neuron formula_1 with activation function formula_2, the delta rule for formula_1's formula_4th weight formula_5 is given by\n\nwhere\n\nIt holds that formula_7 and formula_8.\n\nThe delta rule is commonly stated in simplified form for a neuron with a linear activation function as \n\nWhile the delta rule is similar to the perceptron's update rule, the derivation is different. The perceptron uses the Heaviside step function as the activation function formula_10, and that means that formula_11 does not exist at zero, and is equal to zero elsewhere, which makes the direct application of the delta rule impossible.\n\nThe delta rule is derived by attempting to minimize the error in the output of the neural network through gradient descent. The error for a neural network with formula_1 outputs can be measured as \n\nIn this case, we wish to move through \"weight space\" of the neuron (the space of all possible values of all of the neuron's weights) in proportion to the gradient of the error function with respect to each weight. In order to do that, we calculate the partial derivative of the error with respect to each weight. For the formula_4th weight, this derivative can be written as \n\nBecause we are only concerning ourselves with the formula_1th neuron, we can substitute the error formula above while omitting the summation:\n\nNext we use the chain rule to split this into two derivatives:\n\nTo find the left derivative, we simply apply the general power rule:\n\nTo find the right derivative, we again apply the chain rule, this time differentiating with respect to the total input to formula_1, formula_21:\n\nNote that the output of the formula_23th neuron, formula_24, is just the neuron's activation function formula_25 applied to the neuron's input formula_21. We can therefore write the derivative of formula_24 with respect to formula_21 simply as formula_25's first derivative:\n\nNext we rewrite formula_21 in the last term as the sum over all formula_32 weights of each weight formula_33 times its corresponding input formula_34:\n\nBecause we are only concerned with the formula_4th weight, the only term of the summation that is relevant is formula_37. Clearly, \n\ngiving us our final equation for the gradient:\n\nAs noted above, gradient descent tells us that our change for each weight should be proportional to the gradient. Choosing a proportionality constant formula_40 and eliminating the minus sign to enable us to move the weight in the negative direction of the gradient to minimize error, we arrive at our target equation:\n\n"}
{"id": "7361571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7361571", "title": "Dysthanasia", "text": "Dysthanasia\n\nIn medicine, dysthanasia means \"bad death\" and is considered a common fault of modern medicine.\n\nDysthanasia occurs when a person who is dying has their biological life extended through technological means without regard to the person's quality of life. Technologies such as an implantable cardioverter defibrillator, artificial ventilation, ventricular assist devices, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation can extend the dying process.\n\nDysthanasia is a term generally used when a person is seen to be kept alive artificially in a condition where, otherwise, they cannot survive; sometimes for some sort of ulterior motive. The term was used frequently in the investigation into the death of Formula One driver Ayrton Senna in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "22551296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22551296", "title": "Edward Brueton", "text": "Edward Brueton\n\nEdward Brueton (1871 – after 1893) was an English footballer born in Penn, Staffordshire, who played in the Football League as a goalkeeper for Small Heath. He joined Small Heath from Stafford Rangers on trial in September 1894. Without even playing reserve team football, he stood in for regular goalkeeper Charles Partridge in the home game against Preston North End on 29 September, conceded four goals – the game finished as a 4–4 draw – and was back in non-league football with Willenhall Swifts by November.\n"}
{"id": "30742439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30742439", "title": "Emily Gibson Braerton", "text": "Emily Gibson Braerton\n\nEmily May Gibson Braerton (January 14, 1884 – 1966) (née Emily May Gibson) was an early advocate of historic preservation in the western United States. She was the Vice President General for the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR) from 1950–1953 and remained an Honorary Vice President General until her death in Santa Ana, California in 1966. She was a member of the DAR’s Peace Pipe Chapter and served as Colorado State Regent from 1950–1953.\n\nBraerton was born on January 14, 1884 in Council Grove, Kansas to Albert Eugene Gibson (Tiffin, Ohio 1851–1909) and Lillian Griffith (Tiffin, Ohio 1851–1939). She was the great niece of William Harvey Gibson, the \"Silver Tongued Orator\" and Union Army Brigadier General from Ohio. She was a direct descendant of Colonel John Gibson, a U.S. Revolutionary officer and of Robert Coe, who arrived in Boston in 1634. She attended the University of Kansas in 1902–1903.\n\nDuring Braerton’s tenure as national vice president, the DAR worked to redress denying Marian Anderson the right to perform at Constitution Hall in 1939. On 14 March 1953, Anderson sang to an unsegregated audience in Constitution Hall as part of the American University concert series. This performance was repeated at Constitution Hall on 1 April 1956. On 24 October 1964, Anderson began her farewell American tour from Constitution Hall.\n\nBraerton was particularly supportive of issues concerning the disabled. She was the mother of five daughters (Emily Louise, Lillian Joan, Mary Lee, Susan Frances, and Lucy Jean), one of whom died in infancy and another one suffered from cerebral palsy caused by premature birth. She was married to Warder Lee Braerton, a law graduate of the University of Kansas (1903) and partner in Braerton, Simonton & Brown Insurance based in Denver, Colorado.\n"}
{"id": "47921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47921", "title": "Free will", "text": "Free will\n\nFree will is the ability to choose between different possible courses of action unimpeded.\n\nFree will is closely linked to the concepts of responsibility, praise, guilt, sin, and other judgements which apply only to actions that are freely chosen. It is also connected with the concepts of advice, persuasion, deliberation, and prohibition. Traditionally, only actions that are freely willed are seen as deserving credit or blame. There are numerous different concerns about threats to the possibility of free will, varying by how exactly it is conceived, which is a matter of some debate.\n\nSome conceive free will to be the capacity to make choices in which the outcome has not been determined by past events. Determinism suggests that only one course of events is possible, which is inconsistent with the existence of free will thus conceived. This problem has been identified in ancient Greek philosophy and remains a major focus of philosophical debate. This view that conceives free will to be incompatible with determinism is called \"incompatibilism\" and encompasses both metaphysical libertarianism, the claim that determinism is false and thus free will is at least possible, and hard determinism, the claim that determinism is true and thus free will is not possible. It also encompasses hard incompatibilism, which holds not only determinism but also its negation to be incompatible with free will and thus free will to be impossible whatever the case may be regarding determinism.\n\nIn contrast, \"compatibilists\" hold that free will \"is\" compatible with determinism. Some compatibilists even hold that determinism is \"necessary\" for free will, arguing that choice involves preference for one course of action over another, requiring a sense of \"how\" choices will turn out. Compatibilists thus consider the debate between libertarians and hard determinists over free will vs determinism a false dilemma. Different compatibilists offer very different definitions of what \"free will\" even means and consequently find different types of constraints to be relevant to the issue. Classical compatibilists considered free will nothing more than freedom of action, considering one free of will simply if, \"had\" one counterfactually wanted to do otherwise, one \"could\" have done otherwise without physical impediment. Contemporary compatibilists instead identify free will as a psychological capacity, such as to direct one's behavior in a way responsive to reason, and there are still further different conceptions of free will, each with their own concerns, sharing only the common feature of not finding the possibility of determinism a threat to the possibility of free will.\n\nThe underlying questions are whether we have control over our actions, and if so, what sort of control, and to what extent. These questions predate the early Greek stoics (for example, Chrysippus), and some modern philosophers lament the lack of progress over all these centuries.\n\nOn one hand, humans have a strong sense of freedom, which leads us to believe that we have free will. On the other hand, an intuitive feeling of free will could be mistaken.\n\nIt is difficult to reconcile the intuitive evidence that conscious decisions are causally effective with the view that the physical world can be explained to operate perfectly by physical law. The conflict between intuitively felt freedom and natural law arises when either causal closure or physical determinism (nomological determinism) is asserted. With causal closure, no physical event has a cause outside the physical domain, and with physical determinism, the future is determined entirely by preceding events (cause and effect).\n\nThe puzzle of reconciling 'free will' with a deterministic universe is known as the \"problem of free will\" or sometimes referred to as the \"dilemma of determinism\". This dilemma leads to a moral dilemma as well: the question of how to assign responsibility for actions if they are caused entirely by past events.\n\nCompatibilists maintain that mental reality is not of itself causally effective. Classical compatibilists have addressed the dilemma of free will by arguing that free will holds as long as we are not externally constrained or coerced. Modern compatibilists make a distinction between freedom of will and freedom of \"action\", that is, separating freedom of choice from the freedom to enact it. Given that humans all experience a sense of free will, some modern compatibilists think it is necessary to accommodate this intuition. Compatibilists often associate freedom of will with the ability to make rational decisions.\n\nA different approach to the dilemma is that of incompatibilists, namely, that if the world is deterministic, then our feeling that we are free to choose an action is simply an illusion. Metaphysical libertarianism is the form of incompatibilism which posits that determinism is false and free will is possible (at least some people have free will). This view is associated with non-materialist constructions, including both traditional dualism, as well as models supporting more minimal criteria; such as the ability to consciously veto an action or competing desire. Yet even with physical indeterminism, arguments have been made against libertarianism in that it is difficult to assign \"Origination\" (responsibility for \"free\" indeterministic choices).\n\nFree will here is predominately treated with respect to physical determinism in the strict sense of nomological determinism, although other forms of determinism are also relevant to free will. For example, logical and theological determinism challenge metaphysical libertarianism with ideas of destiny and fate, and biological, cultural and psychological determinism feed the development of compatibilist models. Separate classes of compatibilism and incompatibilism may even be formed to represent these.\n\nBelow are the classic arguments bearing upon the dilemma and its underpinnings.\n\nIncompatibilism is the position that free will and determinism are logically incompatible, and that the major question regarding whether or not people have free will is thus whether or not their actions are determined. \"Hard determinists\", such as d'Holbach, are those incompatibilists who accept determinism and reject free will. In contrast, \"metaphysical libertarians\", such as Thomas Reid, Peter van Inwagen, and Robert Kane, are those incompatibilists who accept free will and deny determinism, holding the view that some form of indeterminism is true. Another view is that of hard incompatibilists, which state that free will is incompatible with both determinism and indeterminism.\n\nTraditional arguments for incompatibilism are based on an \"intuition pump\": if a person is like other mechanical things that are determined in their behavior such as a wind-up toy, a billiard ball, a puppet, or a robot, then people must not have free will. This argument has been rejected by compatibilists such as Daniel Dennett on the grounds that, even if humans have something in common with these things, it remains possible and plausible that we are different from such objects in important ways.\n\nAnother argument for incompatibilism is that of the \"causal chain\". Incompatibilism is key to the idealist theory of free will. Most incompatibilists reject the idea that freedom of action consists simply in \"voluntary\" behavior. They insist, rather, that free will means that man must be the \"ultimate\" or \"originating\" cause of his actions. He must be \"causa sui\", in the traditional phrase. Being responsible for one's choices is the first cause of those choices, where first cause means that there is no antecedent cause of that cause. The argument, then, is that if man has free will, then man is the ultimate cause of his actions. If determinism is true, then all of man's choices are caused by events and facts outside his control. So, if everything man does is caused by events and facts outside his control, then he cannot be the ultimate cause of his actions. Therefore, he cannot have free will. This argument has also been challenged by various compatibilist philosophers.\n\nA third argument for incompatibilism was formulated by Carl Ginet in the 1960s and has received much attention in the modern literature. The simplified argument runs along these lines: if determinism is true, then we have no control over the events of the past that determined our present state and no control over the laws of nature. Since we can have no control over these matters, we also can have no control over the \"consequences\" of them. Since our present choices and acts, under determinism, are the necessary consequences of the past and the laws of nature, then we have no control over them and, hence, no free will. This is called the \"consequence argument\". Peter van Inwagen remarks that C.D. Broad had a version of the consequence argument as early as the 1930s.\n\nThe difficulty of this argument for some compatibilists lies in the fact that it entails the impossibility that one could have chosen other than one has. For example, if Jane is a compatibilist and she has just sat down on the sofa, then she is committed to the claim that she could have remained standing, if she had so desired. But it follows from the consequence argument that, if Jane had remained standing, she would have either generated a contradiction, violated the laws of nature or changed the past. Hence, compatibilists are committed to the existence of \"incredible abilities\", according to Ginet and van Inwagen. One response to this argument is that it equivocates on the notions of abilities and necessities, or that the free will evoked to make any given choice is really an illusion and the choice had been made all along, oblivious to its \"decider\". David Lewis suggests that compatibilists are only committed to the ability to do something otherwise if \"different circumstances\" had actually obtained in the past.\n\nUsing \"T\", \"F\" for \"true\" and \"false\" and \"?\" for undecided, there are exactly nine positions regarding determinism/free will that consist of any two of these three possibilities:\n\n\"Incompatibilism\" may occupy any of the nine positions except (5), (8) or (3), which last corresponds to \"soft determinism\". Position (1) is \"hard determinism\", and position (2) is \"libertarianism\". The position (1) of hard determinism adds to the table the contention that \"D\" implies \"FW\" is untrue, and the position (2) of libertarianism adds the contention that \"FW\" implies \"D\" is untrue. Position (9) may be called \"hard incompatibilism\" if one interprets \"?\" as meaning both concepts are of dubious value. \"Compatibilism\" itself may occupy any of the nine positions, that is, there is no logical contradiction between determinism and free will, and either or both may be true or false in principle. However, the most common meaning attached to \"compatibilism\" is that some form of determinism is true and yet we have some form of free will, position (3).\nAlex Rosenberg makes an extrapolation of physical determinism as inferred on the macroscopic scale by the behaviour of a set of dominoes to neural activity in the brain where; \"If the brain is nothing but a complex physical object whose states are as much governed by physical laws as any other physical object, then what goes on in our heads is as fixed and determined by prior events as what goes on when one domino topples another in a long row of them.\" Physical determinism is currently disputed by prominent interpretations of quantum mechanics, and while not necessarily representative of intrinsic indeterminism in nature, fundamental limits of precision in measurement are inherent in the uncertainty principle. The relevance of such prospective indeterminate activity to free will is, however, contested, even when chaos theory is introduced to magnify the effects of such microscopic events.\n\nBelow these positions are examined in more detail.\n\nDeterminism can be divided into causal, logical and theological determinism. Corresponding to each of these different meanings, there arises a different problem for free will. Hard determinism is the claim that determinism is true, and that it is incompatible with free will, so free will does not exist. Although hard determinism generally refers to nomological determinism (see causal determinism below), it can include all forms of determinism that necessitate the future in its entirety. Relevant forms of determinism include:\n\nOther forms of determinism are more relevant to compatibilism, such as biological determinism, the idea that all behaviors, beliefs, and desires are fixed by our genetic endowment and our biochemical makeup, the latter of which is affected by both genes and environment, cultural determinism and psychological determinism. Combinations and syntheses of determinist theses, such as bio-environmental determinism, are even more common.\n\nSuggestions have been made that hard determinism need not maintain strict determinism, where something near to, like that informally known as adequate determinism, is perhaps more relevant. Despite this, hard determinism has grown less popular in present times, given scientific suggestions that determinism is false – yet the intention of their position is sustained by hard incompatibilism.\n\nMetaphysical libertarianism is one philosophical view point under that of incompatibilism. Libertarianism holds onto a concept of free will that requires that the agent be able to take more than one possible course of action under a given set of circumstances.\n\nAccounts of libertarianism subdivide into non-physical theories and physical or naturalistic theories. Non-physical theories hold that the events in the brain that lead to the performance of actions do not have an entirely physical explanation, which requires that the world is not closed under physics. This includes interactionist dualism, which claims that some non-physical mind, will, or soul overrides physical causality. Physical determinism implies there is only one possible future and is therefore not compatible with libertarian free will. As consequent of incompatibilism, metaphysical libertarian explanations that do not involve dispensing with physicalism require physical indeterminism, such as probabilistic subatomic particle behavior – theory unknown to many of the early writers on free will. Incompatibilist theories can be categorised based on the type of indeterminism they require; uncaused events, non-deterministically caused events, and agent/substance-caused events.\n\nNon-causal accounts of incompatibilist free will do not require a free action to be caused by either an agent or a physical event. They either rely upon a world that is not causally closed, or physical indeterminism. Non-causal accounts often claim that each intentional action requires a choice or volition – a willing, trying, or endeavoring on behalf of the agent (such as the cognitive component of lifting one's arm). Such intentional actions are interpreted as free actions. It has been suggested, however, that such acting cannot be said to exercise control over anything in particular. According to non-causal accounts, the causation by the agent cannot be analysed in terms of causation by mental states or events, including desire, belief, intention of something in particular, but rather is considered a matter of spontaneity and creativity. The exercise of intent in such intentional actions is not that which determines their freedom – intentional actions are rather self-generating. The \"actish feel\" of some intentional actions do not \"constitute that event's activeness, or the agent's exercise of active control\", rather they \"might be brought about by direct stimulation of someone's brain, in the absence of any relevant desire or intention on the part of that person\". Another question raised by such non-causal theory, is how an agent acts upon reason, if the said intentional actions are spontaneous.\n\nSome non-causal explanations involve invoking panpsychism, the theory that a quality of mind is associated with all particles, and pervades the entire universe, in both animate and inanimate entities.\n\nEvent-causal accounts of incompatibilist free will typically rely upon physicalist models of mind (like those of the compatibilist), yet they presuppose physical indeterminism, in which certain indeterministic events are said to be caused by the agent. A number of event-causal accounts of free will have been created, referenced here as \"deliberative indeterminism\", \"centred accounts\", and \"efforts of will theory\". The first two accounts do not require free will to be a fundamental constituent of the universe. Ordinary randomness is appealed to as supplying the \"elbow room\" that libertarians believe necessary. A first common objection to event-causal accounts is that the indeterminism could be destructive and could therefore diminish control by the agent rather than provide it (related to the problem of origination). A second common objection to these models is that it is questionable whether such indeterminism could add any value to deliberation over that which is already present in a deterministic world.\n\n\"Deliberative indeterminism\" asserts that the indeterminism is confined to an earlier stage in the decision process. This is intended to provide an indeterminate set of possibilities to choose from, while not risking the introduction of \"luck\" (random decision making). The selection process is deterministic, although it may be based on earlier preferences established by the same process. Deliberative indeterminism has been referenced by Daniel Dennett and John Martin Fischer. An obvious objection to such a view is that an agent cannot be assigned ownership over their decisions (or preferences used to make those decisions) to any greater degree than that of a compatibilist model.\n\n\"Centred accounts\" propose that for any given decision between two possibilities, the strength of reason will be considered for each option, yet there is still a probability the weaker candidate will be chosen. An obvious objection to such a view is that decisions are explicitly left up to chance, and origination or responsibility cannot be assigned for any given decision.\n\n\"Efforts of will theory\" is related to the role of will power in decision making. It suggests that the indeterminacy of agent volition processes could map to the indeterminacy of certain physical events – and the outcomes of these events could therefore be considered caused by the agent. Models of volition have been constructed in which it is seen as a particular kind of complex, high-level process with an element of physical indeterminism. An example of this approach is that of Robert Kane, where he hypothesizes that \"in each case, the indeterminism is functioning as a hindrance or obstacle to her realizing one of her purposes – a hindrance or obstacle in the form of resistance within her will which must be overcome by effort.\" According to Robert Kane such \"ultimate responsibility\" is a required condition for free will. An important factor in such a theory is that the agent cannot be reduced to physical neuronal events, but rather mental processes are said to provide an equally valid account of the determination of outcome as their physical processes (see non-reductive physicalism).\n\nAlthough at the time quantum mechanics (and physical indeterminism) was only in the initial stages of acceptance, in his book \"Miracles: A preliminary study\" C.S. Lewis stated the logical possibility that if the physical world were proved indeterministic this would provide an entry point to describe an action of a non-physical entity on physical reality. Indeterministic physical models (particularly those involving quantum indeterminacy) introduce random occurrences at an atomic or subatomic level. These events might affect brain activity, and could seemingly allow incompatibilist free will if the apparent indeterminacy of some mental processes (for instance, subjective perceptions of control in conscious volition) map to the underlying indeterminacy of the physical construct. This relationship, however, requires a causative role over probabilities that is questionable, and it is far from established that brain activity responsible for human action can be affected by such events. Secondarily, these incompatibilist models are dependent upon the relationship between action and conscious volition, as studied in the neuroscience of free will. It is evident that observation may disturb the outcome of the observation itself, rendering limited our ability to identify causality. Niels Bohr, one of the main architects of quantum theory, suggested, however, that no connection could be made between indeterminism of nature and freedom of will.\n\nAgent/substance-causal accounts of incompatibilist free will rely upon substance dualism in their description of mind. The agent is assumed power to intervene in the physical world.\nAgent (substance)-causal accounts have been suggested by both George Berkeley and Thomas Reid. It is required that what the agent causes is not causally determined by prior events. It is also required that the agent's causing of that event is not causally determined by prior events. A number of problems have been identified with this view. Firstly, it is difficult to establish the reason for any given choice by the agent, which suggests they may be random or determined by \"luck\" (without an underlying basis for the free will decision). Secondly, it has been questioned whether physical events can be caused by an external substance or mind – a common problem associated with interactionalist dualism.\n\nHard incompatibilism is the idea that free will cannot exist, whether the world is deterministic or not. Derk Pereboom has defended hard incompatibilism, identifying a variety of positions where free will is irrelevant to indeterminism/determinism, among them the following:\nPereboom calls positions 3 and 4 \"soft determinism\", position 1 a form of \"hard determinism\", position 6 a form of \"classical libertarianism\", and any position that includes having F as \"compatibilism\".\n\nJohn Locke denied that the phrase \"free will\" made any sense (compare with theological noncognitivism, a similar stance on the existence of God). He also took the view that the truth of determinism was irrelevant. He believed that the defining feature of voluntary behavior was that individuals have the ability to \"postpone\" a decision long enough to reflect or deliberate upon the consequences of a choice: \"... the will in truth, signifies nothing but a power, or ability, to prefer or choose\".\n\nThe contemporary philosopher Galen Strawson agrees with Locke that the truth or falsity of determinism is irrelevant to the\nproblem. He argues that the notion of free will leads to an infinite regress and is therefore senseless.\nAccording to Strawson, if one is responsible for what one does in a given situation, then one must be responsible for the way one is in certain mental respects. But it is impossible for one to be responsible for the way one is in any respect. This is because to be responsible in some situation \"S\", one must have been responsible for the way one was at \"S\". To be responsible for the way one was at \"S\", one must have been responsible for the way one was at \"S\", and so on. At some point in the chain, there must have been an act of origination of a new causal chain. But this is impossible. Man cannot create himself or his mental states \"ex nihilo\". This argument entails that free will itself is absurd, but not that it is incompatible with determinism. Strawson calls his own view \"pessimism\" but it can be classified as hard incompatibilism.\n\nCausal determinism is the concept that events within a given paradigm are bound by causality in such a way that any state (of an object or event) is completely determined by prior states. Causal determinism proposes that there is an unbroken chain of prior occurrences stretching back to the origin of the universe. Causal determinists believe that there is nothing uncaused or self-caused. The most common form of causal determinism is nomological determinism (or scientific determinism), the notion that the past and the present dictate the future entirely and necessarily by rigid natural laws, that every occurrence results inevitably from prior events. Quantum mechanics poses a serious challenge to this view.\n\nFundamental debate continues over whether the physical universe is likely to be deterministic. Although the scientific method cannot be used to rule out indeterminism with respect to violations of causal closure, it can be used to identify indeterminism in natural law. Interpretations of quantum mechanics at present are both deterministic and indeterministic, and are being constrained by ongoing experimentation.\n\nDestiny or fate is a predetermined course of events. It may be conceived as a predetermined future, whether in general or of an individual. It is a concept based on the belief that there is a fixed natural order to the cosmos.\n\nAlthough often used interchangeably, the words \"fate\" and \"destiny\" have distinct connotations.\n\nFate generally implies there is a set course that cannot be deviated from, and over which one has no control. Fate is related to determinism, but makes no specific claim of physical determinism. Even with physical indeterminism an event could still be fated externally (see for instance theological determinism). Destiny likewise is related to determinism, but makes no specific claim of physical determinism. Even with physical indeterminism an event could still be destined to occur.\n\nDestiny implies there is a set course that cannot be deviated from, but does not of itself make any claim with respect to the setting of that course (i.e., it does not necessarily conflict with incompatibilist free will). Free will if existent could be the mechanism by which that destined outcome is chosen (determined to represent destiny).\n\nDiscussion regarding destiny does not necessitate the existence of supernatural powers. Logical determinism or determinateness is the notion that all propositions, whether about the past, present, or future, are either true or false. This creates a unique problem for free will given that propositions about the future already have a truth value in the present (that is it is already determined as either true or false), and is referred to as the problem of future contingents.\n\nOmniscience is the capacity to know everything that there is to know (included in which are all future events), and is a property often attributed to a creator deity. Omniscience implies the existence of destiny. Some authors have claimed that free will cannot coexist with omniscience. One argument asserts that an omniscient creator not only implies destiny but a form of high level predeterminism such as hard theological determinism or predestination – that they have independently fixed all events and outcomes in the universe in advance. In such a case, even if an individual could have influence over their lower level physical system, their choices in regard to this cannot be their own, as is the case with libertarian free will. Omniscience features as an incompatible-properties argument for the existence of God, known as the argument from free will, and is closely related to other such arguments, for example the incompatibility of omnipotence with a good creator deity (i.e. if a deity knew what they were going to choose, then they are responsible for letting them choose it).\n\nPredeterminism is the idea that all events are determined in advance. Predeterminism is the philosophy that all events of history, past, present and future, have been decided or are known (by God, fate, or some other force), including human actions. Predeterminism is frequently taken to mean that human actions cannot interfere with (or have no bearing on) the outcomes of a pre-determined course of events, and that one's destiny was established externally (for example, exclusively by a creator deity). The concept of predeterminism is often argued by invoking causal determinism, implying that there is an unbroken chain of prior occurrences stretching back to the origin of the universe. In the case of predeterminism, this chain of events has been pre-established, and human actions cannot interfere with the outcomes of this pre-established chain. Predeterminism can be used to mean such pre-established causal determinism, in which case it is categorised as a specific type of determinism. It can also be used interchangeably with causal determinism – in the context of its capacity to determine future events. Despite this, predeterminism is often considered as independent of causal determinism. The term predeterminism is also frequently used in the context of biology and heredity, in which case it represents a form of biological determinism.\n\nThe term predeterminism suggests not just a determining of all events, but the prior and deliberately conscious determining of all events (therefore done, presumably, by a conscious being). While determinism usually refers to a naturalistically explainable causality of events, predeterminism seems by definition to suggest a person or a \"someone\" who is controlling or planning the causality of events before they occur and who then perhaps resides beyond the natural, causal universe. Predestination asserts that a supremely powerful being has indeed fixed all events and outcomes in the universe in advance, and is a famous doctrine of the Calvinists in Christian theology. Predestination is often considered a form of hard theological determinism.\n\nPredeterminism has therefore been compared to fatalism. Fatalism is the idea that everything is fated to happen, so that humans have no control over their future.\n\nTheological determinism is a form of determinism stating that all events that happen are pre-ordained, or predestined to happen, by a monotheistic deity, or that they are destined to occur given its omniscience. Two forms of theological determinism exist, here referenced as strong and weak theological determinism.\n\nThere exist slight variations on the above categorisation. Some claim that theological determinism requires predestination of all events and outcomes by the divinity (that is, they do not classify the weaker version as 'theological determinism' unless libertarian free will is assumed to be denied as a consequence), or that the weaker version does not constitute 'theological determinism' at all. Theological determinism can also be seen as a form of causal determinism, in which the antecedent conditions are the nature and will of God. With respect to free will and the classification of theological compatibilism/incompatibilism below, \"theological determinism is the thesis that God exists and has infallible knowledge of all true propositions including propositions about our future actions,\" more minimal criteria designed to encapsulate all forms of theological determinism.\nThere are various implications for metaphysical libertarian free will as consequent of theological determinism and its philosophical interpretation.\n\nThe basic argument for theological fatalism in the case of weak theological determinism is as follows:\n\nThis argument is very often accepted as a basis for theological incompatibilism: denying either libertarian free will or divine foreknowledge (omniscience) and therefore theological determinism. On the other hand, theological compatibilism must attempt to find problems with it. The formal version of the argument rests on a number of premises, many of which have received some degree of contention. Theological compatibilist responses have included:\n\nIn the definition of compatibilism and incompatibilism, the literature often fails to distinguish between physical determinism and higher level forms of determinism (predeterminism, theological determinism, etc.) As such, hard determinism with respect to theological determinism (or \"Hard Theological Determinism\" above) might be classified as hard incompatibilism with respect to physical determinism (if no claim was made regarding the internal causality or determinism of the universe), or even compatibilism (if freedom from the constraint of determinism was not considered necessary for free will), if not hard determinism itself. By the same principle, metaphysical libertarianism (a form of incompatibilism with respect to physical determinism) might be classified as compatibilism with respect to theological determinism (if it was assumed such free will events were pre-ordained and therefore were destined to occur, but of which whose outcomes were not \"predestined\" or determined by God). If hard theological determinism is accepted (if it was assumed instead that such outcomes were predestined by God), then metaphysical libertarianism is not, however, possible, and would require reclassification (as hard incompatibilism for example, given that the universe is still assumed to be indeterministic – although the classification of hard determinism is technically valid also).\n\nThe idea of \"free will\" is one aspect of the mind-body problem, that is, consideration of the relation between mind (for example, consciousness, memory, and judgment) and body (for example, the human brain and nervous system). Philosophical models of mind are divided into physical and non-physical expositions.\n\nCartesian dualism holds that the mind is a nonphysical substance, the seat of consciousness and intelligence, and is not identical with physical states of the brain or body. It is suggested that although the two worlds do interact, each retains some measure of autonomy. Under cartesian dualism external mind is responsible for bodily action, although unconscious brain activity is often caused by external events (for example, the instantaneous reaction to being burned). Cartesian dualism implies that the physical world is not deterministic – and in which external mind controls (at least some) physical events, providing an interpretation of incompatibilist free will. Stemming from Cartesian dualism, a formulation sometimes called \"interactionalist dualism\" suggests a two-way interaction, that some physical events cause some mental acts and some mental acts cause some physical events. One modern vision of the possible separation of mind and body is the \"three-world\" formulation of Popper. Cartesian dualism and Popper's three worlds are two forms of what is called epistemological pluralism, that is the notion that different epistemological methodologies are necessary to attain a full description of the world. Other forms of epistemological pluralist dualism include psychophysical parallelism and epiphenomenalism. Epistemological pluralism is one view in which the mind-body problem is \"not\" reducible to the concepts of the natural sciences.\n\nA contrasting approach is called physicalism. Physicalism is a philosophical theory holding that everything that exists is no more extensive than its physical properties; that is, that there are no non-physical substances (for example physically independent minds). Physicalism can be reductive or non-reductive. Reductive physicalism is grounded in the idea that everything in the world can actually be reduced analytically to its fundamental physical, or material, basis. Alternatively, non-reductive physicalism asserts that mental properties form a separate ontological class to physical properties: that mental states (such as qualia) are not ontologically reducible to physical states. Although one might suppose that mental states and neurological states are different in kind, that does not rule out the possibility that mental states are correlated with neurological states. In one such construction, anomalous monism, mental events \"supervene\" on physical events, describing the emergence of mental properties correlated with physical properties – implying causal reducibility. Non-reductive physicalism is therefore often categorised as property dualism rather than monism, yet other types of property dualism do not adhere to the causal reducibility of mental states (see epiphenomenalism).\n\nIncompatibilism requires a distinction between the mental and the physical, being a commentary on the incompatibility of (determined) physical reality and one's presumably distinct experience of will. Secondarily, metaphysical libertarian free will must assert influence on physical reality, and where mind is responsible for such influence (as opposed to ordinary system randomness), it must be distinct from body to accomplish this. Both substance and property dualism offer such a distinction, and those particular models thereof that are not causally inert with respect to the physical world provide a basis for illustrating incompatibilist free will (i.e. interactionalist dualism and non-reductive physicalism).\n\nIt has been noted that the laws of physics have yet to resolve the hard problem of consciousness: \"Solving the hard problem of consciousness involves determining how physiological processes such as ions flowing across the nerve membrane \"cause\" us to have experiences.\" According to some, \"Intricately related to the hard problem of consciousness, the hard problem of free will represents \"the\" core problem of conscious free will: Does conscious volition impact the material world?\" Others however argue that \"consciousness plays a far smaller role in human life than Western culture has tended to believe.\"\n\nCompatibilists maintain that determinism is compatible with free will. They believe freedom can be present or absent in a situation for reasons that have nothing to do with metaphysics. For instance, courts of law make judgments about whether individuals are acting under their own free will under certain circumstances without bringing in metaphysics. Similarly, political liberty is a non-metaphysical concept. Likewise, some compatibilists define free will as freedom to act according to one's determined motives without hindrance from other individuals. So for example Aristotle in his \"Nicomachean Ethics\", and the Stoic Chrysippus.\nIn contrast, the incompatibilist positions are concerned with a sort of \"metaphysically free will\", which compatibilists claim has never been coherently defined. Compatibilists argue that determinism does not matter; though they disagree among themselves about what, in turn, \"does\" matter. To be a compatibilist, one need not endorse any particular conception of free will, but only deny that determinism is at odds with free will.\n\nAlthough there are various impediments to exercising one's choices, free will does not imply freedom of action. Freedom of choice (freedom to select one's will) is logically separate from freedom to \"implement\" that choice (freedom to enact one's will), although not all writers observe this distinction. Nonetheless, some philosophers have defined free will as the absence of various impediments. Some \"modern compatibilists\", such as Harry Frankfurt and Daniel Dennett, argue free will is simply freely choosing to do what constraints allow one to do. In other words, a coerced agent's choices can still be free if such coercion coincides with the agent's personal intentions and desires.\n\nMost \"classical compatibilists\", such as Thomas Hobbes, claim that a person is acting on the person's own will only when it is the desire of that person to do the act, and also possible for the person to be able to do otherwise, \"if the person had decided to\". Hobbes sometimes attributes such compatibilist freedom to each individual and not to some abstract notion of \"will\", asserting, for example, that \"no liberty can be inferred to the will, desire, or inclination, but the liberty of the man; which consisteth in this, that he finds no stop, in doing what he has the will, desire, or inclination to doe.\" In articulating this crucial proviso, David Hume writes, \"this hypothetical liberty is universally allowed to belong to every one who is not a prisoner and in chains.\" Similarly, Voltaire, in his \"Dictionnaire philosophique\", claimed that \"Liberty then is only and can be only the power to do what one will.\" He asked, \"would you have everything at the pleasure of a million blind caprices?\" For him, free will or liberty is \"only the power of acting, what is this power? It is the effect of the constitution and present state of our organs.\"\n\nCompatibilism often regards the agent free as virtue of their reason. Some explanations of free will focus on the internal causality of the mind with respect to higher-order brain processing – the interaction between conscious and unconscious brain activity. Likewise, some modern compatibilists in psychology have tried to revive traditionally accepted struggles of free will with the formation of character. Compatibilist free will has also been attributed to our natural sense of agency, where one must believe they are an agent in order to function and develop a theory of mind.\n\nThe notion of levels of decision is presented in a different manner by Frankfurt. Frankfurt argues for a version of compatibilism called the \"hierarchical mesh\". The idea is that an individual can have conflicting desires at a first-order level and also have a desire about the various first-order desires (a second-order desire) to the effect that one of the desires prevails over the others. A person's will is identified with their effective first-order desire, that is, the one they act on, and this will is free if it was the desire the person wanted to act upon, that is, the person's second-order desire was effective. So, for example, there are \"wanton addicts\", \"unwilling addicts\" and \"willing addicts\". All three groups may have the conflicting first-order desires to want to take the drug they are addicted to and to not want to take it.\n\nThe first group, \"wanton addicts\", have no second-order desire not to take the drug. The second group, \"unwilling addicts\", have a second-order desire not to take the drug, while the third group, \"willing addicts\", have a second-order desire to take it. According to Frankfurt, the members of the first group are devoid of will and therefore are no longer persons. The members of the second group freely desire not to take the drug, but their will is overcome by the addiction. Finally, the members of the third group willingly take the drug they are addicted to. Frankfurt's theory can ramify to any number of levels. Critics of the theory point out that there is no certainty that conflicts will not arise even at the higher-order levels of desire and preference. Others argue that Frankfurt offers no adequate explanation of how the various levels in the hierarchy mesh together.\n\nIn \"Elbow Room\", Dennett presents an argument for a compatibilist theory of free will, which he further elaborated in the book \"Freedom Evolves\". The basic reasoning is that, if one excludes God, an infinitely powerful demon, and other such possibilities, then because of chaos and epistemic limits on the precision of our knowledge of the current state of the world, the future is ill-defined for all finite beings. The only well-defined things are \"expectations\". The ability to do \"otherwise\" only makes sense when dealing with these expectations, and not with some unknown and unknowable future.\n\nAccording to Dennett, because individuals have the ability to act differently from what anyone expects, free will can exist. Incompatibilists claim the problem with this idea is that we may be mere \"automata responding in predictable ways to stimuli in our environment\". Therefore, all of our actions are controlled by forces outside ourselves, or by random chance. More sophisticated analyses of compatibilist free will have been offered, as have other critiques.\n\nIn the philosophy of decision theory, a fundamental question is: From the standpoint of statistical outcomes, to what extent do the choices of a conscious being have the ability to influence the future? Newcomb's paradox and other philosophical problems pose questions about free will and predictable outcomes of choices.\n\nCompatibilist models of free will often consider deterministic relationships as discoverable in the physical world (including the brain). Cognitive naturalism is a physicalist approach to studying human cognition and consciousness in which the mind is simply part of nature, perhaps merely a feature of many very complex self-programming feedback systems (for example, neural networks and cognitive robots), and so must be studied by the methods of empirical science, such as the behavioral and cognitive sciences (\"i.e.\" neuroscience and cognitive psychology). Cognitive naturalism stresses the role of neurological sciences. Overall brain health, substance dependence, depression, and various personality disorders clearly influence mental activity, and their impact upon volition is also important. For example, an addict may experience a conscious desire to escape addiction, but be unable to do so. The \"will\" is disconnected from the freedom to act. This situation is related to an abnormal production and distribution of dopamine in the brain. The neuroscience of free will places restrictions on both compatibilist and incompatibilist free will conceptions.\n\nCompatibilist models adhere to models of mind in which mental activity (such as deliberation) can be reduced to physical activity without any change in physical outcome. Although compatibilism is generally aligned to (or is at least compatible with) physicalism, some compatibilist models describe the natural occurrences of deterministic deliberation in the brain in terms of the first person perspective of the conscious agent performing the deliberation. Such an approach has been considered a form of identity dualism. A description of \"how conscious experience might affect brains\" has been provided in which \"the experience of conscious free will is the first-person perspective of the neural correlates of choosing.\"\n\nRecently Claudio Costa developed a neocompatibilist theory based on the causal theory of action that is complementary to classical compatibilism. According to him, physical, psychological and rational restrictions can interfer at different levels of the causal chain that would naturally lead to action. Corrrespondingly, there can be physical restrictions to the body, psychological restrictions to the decision, and rational restrictions to the formation of reasons (desires plus beliefs) that should lead to what we would call a reasonable action. The last two are usually called \"restrictions of free will\". The restriction at the level of reasons is particularly important, since it can be motivated by external reasons that are insufficiently conscious to the agent. One example was the collective suicide led by Jim Jones. The suicidal agents were not conscious that their free will have been manipulated by external, even if ungrounded, reasons.\n\nSome philosophers' views are difficult to categorize as either compatibilist or incompatibilist, hard determinist or libertarian. For example, Ted Honderich holds the view that \"determinism is true, compatibilism and incompatibilism are both false\" and the real problem lies elsewhere. Honderich maintains that determinism is true because quantum phenomena are not events or things that can be located in space and time, but are abstract entities. Further, even if they were micro-level events, they do not seem to have any relevance to how the world is at the macroscopic level. He maintains that incompatibilism is false because, even if indeterminism is true, incompatibilists have not provided, and cannot provide, an adequate account of origination. He rejects compatibilism because it, like incompatibilism, assumes a single, fundamental notion of freedom. There are really two notions of freedom: voluntary action and origination. Both notions are required to explain freedom of will and responsibility. Both determinism and indeterminism are threats to such freedom. To abandon these notions of freedom would be to abandon moral responsibility. On the one side, we have our intuitions; on the other, the scientific facts. The \"new\" problem is how to resolve this conflict.\n\nDavid Hume discussed the possibility that the entire debate about free will is nothing more than a merely \"verbal\" issue. He suggested that it might be accounted for by \"a false sensation or seeming experience\" (a \"velleity\"), which is associated with many of our actions when we perform them. On reflection, we realize that they were necessary and determined all along.\nArthur Schopenhauer put the puzzle of free will and moral responsibility in these terms:\nEveryone believes himself, \"a priori\", perfectly free – even in his individual actions, and thinks that at every moment he can commence another manner of life. ... But \"a posteriori\", through experience, he finds to his astonishment that he is not free, but subjected to necessity, that in spite of all his resolutions and reflections he does not change his conduct, and that from the beginning of his life to the end of it, he must carry out the very character which he himself condemns...\nIn his essay \"On the Freedom of the Will\", Schopenhauer stated, \"You can do what you will, but in any given moment of your life you can \"will\" only one definite thing and absolutely nothing other than that one thing.\" According to Schopenhauer, phenomena do not have free will. However, will [urging, craving, striving, wanting, and desiring] as noumenon is free.\n\nRudolf Steiner, who collaborated in a complete edition of Arthur Schopenhauer's work, wrote \"The Philosophy of Freedom\", which focuses on the problem of free will. Steiner (1861–1925) initially divides this into the two aspects of freedom: \"freedom of thought\" and \"freedom of action\". The controllable and uncontrollable aspects of decision making thereby are made logically separable, as pointed out in the introduction. This separation of \"will\" from \"action\" has a very long history, going back at least as far as Stoicism and the teachings of Chrysippus (279–206 BCE), who separated external \"antecedent\" causes from the internal disposition receiving this cause.\n\nSteiner then argues that inner freedom is achieved when we integrate our sensory impressions, which reflect the outer appearance of the world, with our thoughts, which lend coherence to these impressions and thereby disclose to us an understandable world. Acknowledging the many influences on our choices, he nevertheless point out that they do not preclude freedom unless we fail to recognise them. Steiner argues that outer freedom is attained by permeating our deeds with \"moral imagination.” “Moral” in this case refers to action that is willed, while “imagination” refers to the mental capacity to envision conditions that do not already hold. Both of these functions are necessarily conditions for freedom. Steiner aims to show that these two aspects of inner and outer freedom are integral to one another, and that true freedom is only achieved when they are united.\n\nWilliam James' views were ambivalent. While he believed in free will on \"ethical grounds\", he did not believe that there was evidence for it on scientific grounds, nor did his own introspections support it. Ultimately he believed that the problem of free will was a metaphysical issue and, therefore, could not be settled by science. Moreover, he did not accept incompatibilism as formulated below; he did not believe that the indeterminism of human actions was a prerequisite of moral responsibility. In his work \"Pragmatism\", he wrote that \"instinct and utility between them can safely be trusted to carry on the social business of punishment and praise\" regardless of metaphysical theories. He did believe that indeterminism is important as a \"doctrine of relief\" – it allows for the view that, although the world may be in many respects a bad place, it may, through individuals' actions, become a better one. Determinism, he argued, undermines meliorism – the idea that progress is a real concept leading to improvement in the world.\n\nIn 1739, David Hume in his \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" approached free will via the notion of causality. It was his position that causality was a mental construct used to explain the repeated association of events, and that one must examine more closely the relation between things \"regularly succeeding\" one another (descriptions of regularity in nature) and things that \"result\" in other things (things that cause or necessitate other things). According to Hume, 'causation' is on weak grounds: \"Once we realise that 'A must bring about B' is tantamount merely to 'Due to their constant conjunction, we are psychologically certain that B will follow A,' then we are left with a very weak notion of necessity.\"\n\nThis empiricist view was often denied by trying to prove the so-called apriority of causal law (i.e. that it precedes all experience and is rooted in the construction of the perceivable world):\n\nIn the 1780s Immanuel Kant suggested at a minimum our decision processes with moral implications lie outside the reach of everyday causality, and lie outside the rules governing material objects. \"There is a sharp difference between moral judgments and judgments of fact... Moral judgments ... must be \"a priori\" judgments.\"\n\nFreeman introduces what he calls \"circular causality\" to \"allow for the contribution of self-organizing dynamics\", the \"formation of macroscopic population dynamics that shapes the patterns of activity of the contributing individuals\", applicable to \"interactions between neurons and neural masses ... and between the behaving animal and its environment\". In this view, mind and neurological functions are tightly coupled in a situation where feedback between collective actions (mind) and individual subsystems (for example, neurons and their synapses) jointly decide upon the behaviour of both.\n\nThirteenth century philosopher Thomas Aquinas viewed humans as pre-programmed (by virtue of being human) to seek certain goals, but able to choose between routes to achieve these goals (our Aristotelian telos). His view has been associated with both compatibilism and libertarianism.\n\nIn facing choices, he argued that humans are governed by \"intellect\", \"will\", and \"passions\". The will is \"the primary mover of all the powers of the soul ... and it is also the efficient cause of motion in the body.\" Choice falls into five stages: (i) intellectual consideration of whether an objective is desirable, (ii) intellectual consideration of means of attaining the objective, (iii) will arrives at an intent to pursue the objective, (iv) will and intellect jointly decide upon choice of means (v) will elects execution. Free will enters as follows: Free will is an \"appetitive power\", that is, not a cognitive power of intellect (the term \"appetite\" from Aquinas's definition \"includes all forms of internal inclination\"). He states that judgment \"concludes and terminates counsel. Now counsel is terminated, first, by the judgment of reason; secondly, by the acceptation of the appetite [that is, the free-will].\"\n\nA compatibilist interpretation of Aquinas's view is defended thus: \"Free-will is the cause of its own movement, because by his free-will man moves himself to act. But it does not of necessity belong to liberty that what is free should be the first cause of itself, as neither for one thing to be cause of another need it be the first cause. God, therefore, is the first cause, Who moves causes both natural and voluntary. And just as by moving natural causes He does not prevent their acts being natural, so by moving voluntary causes He does not deprive their actions of being voluntary: but rather is He the cause of this very thing in them; for He operates in each thing according to its own nature.\"\n\nHistorically, most of the philosophical effort invested in resolving the dilemma has taken the form of close examination of definitions and ambiguities in the concepts designated by \"free\", \"freedom\", \"will\", \"choice\" and so forth. Defining 'free will' often revolves around the meaning of phrases like \"ability to do otherwise\" or \"alternative possibilities\". This emphasis upon words has led some philosophers to claim the problem is merely verbal and thus a pseudo-problem. In response, others point out the complexity of decision making and the importance of nuances in the terminology.\n\nThe problem of free will has been identified in ancient Greek philosophical literature. The notion of compatibilist free will has been attributed to both Aristotle (fourth century BCE) and Epictetus (1st century CE); \"it was the fact that nothing hindered us from doing or choosing something that made us have control over them\". According to Susanne Bobzien, the notion of incompatibilist free will is perhaps first identified in the works of Alexander of Aphrodisias (third century CE); \"what makes us have control over things is the fact that we are causally undetermined in our decision and thus can freely decide between doing/choosing or not doing/choosing them\".\n\nThe term \"free will\" (\"liberum arbitrium\") was introduced by Christian philosophy (4th century CE). It has traditionally meant (until the Enlightenment proposed its own meanings) lack of necessity in human will, so that \"the will is free\" meant \"the will does not have to be such as it is\". This requirement was universally embraced by both incompatibilists and compatibilists.\n\nScience has contributed to the free will problem in at least three ways. First, physics has addressed the question whether nature is deterministic, which is viewed as crucial by incompatibilists (compatibilists, however, view it as irrelevant). Second, although free will can be defined in various ways, all of them involve aspects of the way people make decisions and initiate actions, which have been studied extensively by neuroscientists. Some of the experimental observations are widely viewed as implying that free will does not exist or is an illusion (but many philosophers see this as a misunderstanding). Third, psychologists have studied the beliefs that the majority of ordinary people hold about free will and its role in assigning moral responsibility.\n\nEarly scientific thought often portrayed the universe as deterministic – for example in the thought of Democritus or the Cārvākans – and some thinkers claimed that the simple process of gathering sufficient information would allow them to predict future events with perfect accuracy. Modern science, on the other hand, is a mixture of deterministic and stochastic theories. Quantum mechanics predicts events only in terms of probabilities, casting doubt on whether the universe is deterministic at all, although evolution of the universal state vector is completely deterministic. Current physical theories cannot resolve the question of whether determinism is true of the world, being very far from a potential Theory of Everything, and open to many different interpretations.\n\nAssuming that an indeterministic interpretation of quantum mechanics is correct, one may still object that such indeterminism is for all practical purposes confined to microscopic phenomena. This is not always the case: many macroscopic phenomena are based on quantum effects. For instance, some hardware random number generators work by amplifying quantum effects into practically usable signals. A more significant question is whether the indeterminism of quantum mechanics allows for the traditional idea of free will (based on a perception of free will). If a person's action is, however, only a result of complete quantum randomness, and mental processes as experienced have no influence on the probabilistic outcomes (such as volition), According to many interpretations, non-determinism enables free will to exist, while others assert the opposite (because the action was not controllable by the physical being who claims to possess the free will).\n\nLike physicists, biologists have frequently addressed questions related to free will. One of the most heated debates in biology is that of \"nature versus nurture\", concerning the relative importance of genetics and biology as compared to culture and environment in human behavior. The view of many researchers is that many human behaviors can be explained in terms of humans' brains, genes, and evolutionary histories. This point of view raises the fear that such attribution makes it impossible to hold others responsible for their actions. Steven Pinker's view is that fear of determinism in the context of \"genetics\" and \"evolution\" is a mistake, that it is \"a confusion of \"explanation\" with \"exculpation\"\". Responsibility does not require that behavior be uncaused, as long as behavior responds to praise and blame. Moreover, it is not certain that environmental determination is any less threatening to free will than genetic determination.\n\nIt has become possible to study the living brain, and researchers can now watch the brain's decision-making process at work. A seminal experiment in this field was conducted by Benjamin Libet in the 1980s, in which he asked each subject to choose a random moment to flick their wrist while he measured the associated activity in their brain; in particular, the build-up of electrical signal called the readiness potential (after German Bereitschaftspotential, which was discovered by Kornhuber & Deecke in 1965.) Although it was well known that the readiness potential reliably preceded the physical action, Libet asked whether it could be recorded before the conscious intention to move. To determine when subjects felt the intention to move, he asked them to watch the second hand of a clock. After making a movement, the volunteer reported the time on the clock when they first felt the conscious intention to move; this became known as Libet's W time.\n\nLibet found that the \"unconscious\" brain activity of the readiness potential leading up to subjects' movements began approximately half a second before the subject was aware of a conscious intention to move.\n\nThese studies of the timing between actions and the conscious decision bear upon the role of the brain in understanding free will. A subject's declaration of intention to move a finger appears \"after\" the brain has begun to implement the action, suggesting to some that unconsciously the brain has made the decision \"before\" the conscious mental act to do so. Some believe the implication is that free will was not involved in the decision and is an illusion. The first of these experiments reported the brain registered activity related to the move about 0.2 s before movement onset. However, these authors also found that awareness of action was \"anticipatory\" to activity in the muscle underlying the movement; the entire process resulting in action involves more steps than just the \"onset\" of brain activity. The bearing of these results upon notions of free will appears complex.\n\nSome argue that placing the question of free will in the context of motor control is too narrow. The objection is that the time scales involved in motor control are very short, and motor control involves a great deal of unconscious action, with much physical movement entirely unconscious. On that basis \"... free will cannot be squeezed into time frames of 150–350 ms; free will is a longer term phenomenon\" and free will is a higher level activity that \"cannot be captured in a description of neural activity or of muscle activation...\" The bearing of timing experiments upon free will is still under discussion.\n\nMore studies have since been conducted, including some that try to:\n\nBenjamin Libet's results are quoted in favor of epiphenomenalism, but he believes subjects still have a \"conscious veto\", since the readiness potential does not invariably lead to an action. In \"Freedom Evolves\", Daniel Dennett argues that a no-free-will conclusion is based on dubious assumptions about the location of consciousness, as well as questioning the accuracy and interpretation of Libet's results. Kornhuber & Deecke underlined that absence of conscious will during the early Bereitschaftspotential (termed BP1) is not a proof of the non-existence of free will, as also unconscious agendas may be free and non-deterministic. According to their suggestion, man has relative freedom, i.e. freedom in degrees, that can be in- or decreased through deliberate choices that involve both conscious and unconscious (panencephalic) processes.\n\nOthers have argued that data such as the Bereitschaftspotential undermine epiphenomenalism for the same reason, that such experiments rely on a subject reporting the point in time at which a conscious experience occurs, thus relying on the subject to be able to consciously perform an action. That ability would seem to be at odds with early epiphenomenalism, which according to Huxley is the broad claim that consciousness is \"completely without any power… as the steam-whistle which accompanies the work of a locomotive engine is without influence upon its machinery\".\n\nAdrian G. Guggisberg and Annaïs Mottaz have also challenged those findings.\n\nA study by Aaron Schurger and colleagues published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) challenged assumptions about the causal nature of the readiness potential itself (and the \"pre-movement buildup\" of neural activity in general), casting doubt on conclusions drawn from studies such as Libet's and Fried's.\n\nIt has been shown that in several brain-related conditions, individuals cannot entirely control their own actions, though the existence of such conditions does not directly refute the existence of free will. Neuroscientific studies are valuable tools in developing models of how humans experience free will.\n\nFor example, people with Tourette syndrome and related tic disorders make involuntary movements and utterances (called tics) despite the fact that they would prefer not to do so when it is socially inappropriate. Tics are described as semi-voluntary or \"unvoluntary\", because they are not strictly \"involuntary\": they may be experienced as a \"voluntary\" response to an unwanted, premonitory urge. Tics are experienced as irresistible and must eventually be expressed. People with Tourette syndrome are sometimes able to suppress their tics for limited periods, but doing so often results in an explosion of tics afterward. The control exerted (from seconds to hours at a time) may merely postpone and exacerbate the ultimate expression of the tic.\n\nIn alien hand syndrome, the afflicted individual's limb will produce unintentional movements without the will of the person. The affected limb effectively demonstrates 'a will of its own.' The sense of agency does not emerge in conjunction with the overt appearance of the purposeful act even though the sense of ownership in relationship to the body part is maintained. This phenomenon corresponds with an impairment in the premotor mechanism manifested temporally by the appearance of the readiness potential (see section on the Neuroscience of Free Will above) recordable on the scalp several hundred milliseconds before the overt appearance of a spontaneous willed movement. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging with specialized multivariate analyses to study the temporal dimension in the activation of the cortical network associated with voluntary movement in human subjects, an anterior-to-posterior sequential activation process beginning in the supplementary motor area on the medial surface of the frontal lobe and progressing to the primary motor cortex and then to parietal cortex has been observed. The sense of agency thus appears to normally emerge in conjunction with this orderly sequential network activation incorporating premotor association cortices together with primary motor cortex. In particular, the supplementary motor complex on the medial surface of the frontal lobe appears to activate prior to primary motor cortex presumably in associated with a preparatory pre-movement process. In a recent study using functional magnetic resonance imaging, alien movements were characterized by a relatively isolated activation of the primary motor cortex contralateral to the alien hand, while voluntary movements of the same body part included the natural activation of motor association cortex associated with the premotor process. The clinical definition requires \"feeling that one limb is foreign or has a \"will of its own,\" together with observable involuntary motor activity\" (emphasis in original). This syndrome is often a result of damage to the corpus callosum, either when it is severed to treat intractable epilepsy or due to a stroke. The standard neurological explanation is that the felt will reported by the speaking left hemisphere does not correspond with the actions performed by the non-speaking right hemisphere, thus suggesting that the two hemispheres may have independent senses of will.\n\nIn addition, one of the most important (\"first rank\") diagnostic symptoms of schizophrenia is the patient's delusion of being controlled by an external force. People with schizophrenia will sometimes report that, although they are acting in the world, they do not recall initiating the particular actions they performed. This is sometimes likened to being a robot controlled by someone else. Although the neural mechanisms of schizophrenia are not yet clear, one influential hypothesis is that there is a breakdown in brain systems that compare motor commands with the feedback received from the body (known as proprioception), leading to attendant hallucinations and delusions of control.\n\nExperimental psychology's contributions to the free will debate have come primarily through social psychologist Daniel Wegner's work on conscious will. In his book, \"The Illusion of Conscious Will\" Wegner summarizes what he believes is empirical evidence supporting the view that human perception of conscious control is an illusion. Wegner summarizes some empirical evidence that may suggest that the perception of conscious control is open to modification (or even manipulation). Wegner observes that one event is inferred to have caused a second event when two requirements are met:\nFor example, if a person hears an explosion and sees a tree fall down that person is likely to infer that the explosion caused the tree to fall over. However, if the explosion occurs after the tree falls down (that is, the first requirement is not met), or rather than an explosion, the person hears the ring of a telephone (that is, the second requirement is not met), then that person is not likely to infer that either noise caused the tree to fall down.\n\nWegner has applied this principle to the inferences people make about their own conscious will. People typically experience a thought that is consistent with a behavior, and then they observe themselves performing this behavior. As a result, people infer that their thoughts must have caused the observed behavior. However, Wegner has been able to manipulate people's thoughts and behaviors so as to conform to or violate the two requirements for causal inference. Through such work, Wegner has been able to show that people often experience conscious will over behaviors that they have not, in fact, caused – and conversely, that people can be led to experience a lack of will over behaviors they did cause. For instance, priming subjects with information about an effect increases the probability that a person falsely believes is the cause. The implication for such work is that the perception of conscious will (which he says might be more accurately labelled as 'the emotion of authorship') is not tethered to the execution of actual behaviors, but is inferred from various cues through an intricate mental process, \"authorship processing\". Although many interpret this work as a blow against the argument for free will, both psychologists and philosophers have criticized Wegner's theories.\n\nEmily Pronin has argued that the subjective experience of free will is supported by the introspection illusion. This is the tendency for people to trust the reliability of their own introspections while distrusting the introspections of other people. The theory implies that people will more readily attribute free will to themselves rather than others. This prediction has been confirmed by three of Pronin and Kugler's experiments. When college students were asked about personal decisions in their own and their roommate's lives, they regarded their own choices as less predictable. Staff at a restaurant described their co-workers' lives as more determined (having fewer future possibilities) than their own lives. When weighing up the influence of different factors on behavior, students gave desires and intentions the strongest weight for their own behavior, but rated personality traits as most predictive of other people.\n\nPsychologists have shown that reducing a person's belief in free will makes them less helpful and more aggressive. This may occur because the subject loses a sense of self-efficacy.\n\nCaveats have, however, been identified in studying a subject's awareness of mental events, in that the process of introspection itself may alter the experience.\n\nJ.B. Miles contradicts the idea that free will has prosocial benefits, recognizing that many distinguished minds have already brought up the negative effects that such a belief would ensure. The explanation for the commonality of this mix-up is a lack of knowledge regarding the free will debate in psychological research. Miles analyzed the methods of popular studies and concluded that such research purported to be examining associations between behavior and disbelief in free will are actually examining the associations between behavior and belief in fatalism. While evidence of the negative effects of a belief in fatalism is legitimate, the research fails to study the effects of belief on free will which they claim to discuss. This occurrence is due to an incorrect understanding and implication that fatalism accompanies determinism. Fatalism is distinguished by the idea that decisions lack effect on the future because everything is determined. Conversely, determinism is the belief that everything operates under cause and effect; every action determines a reaction. Determinism, therefore emphasizes the importance and responsibility one has in decision making as every choice will have an accompanying effect. Seeing this flaw throughout commonly cited research, Miles presents countering research which includes “evidence that the myth of free choice encourages immoral, unjust, prejudiced, and anti-intellectual behaviour.” Miles suggests that while both extremes of fatalism and belief in free will result in negative social outcomes, determinism serves to encourage intentional, prosocial decision making. Ultimately, the point of this research is to encourage accurate knowledge of the free will debate when conducting and evaluating such studies in experimental psychology.\n\nRegardless of the validity of, or benefit of, belief in free will, it may be beneficial to understand where the idea comes from. One contribution is randomness. While it is established that randomness is not the only factor in the perception of the free will, it has been shown that randomness can be mistaken as free will due to its indeterminacy. This misconception applies both when considering oneself and others. Another contribution is choice. It has been demonstrated that people's belief in free will increases if presented with a simple level of choice. The specificity of the amount of choice is important, as too little or too great a degree of choice may negatively influence belief. It is also likely that the associative relationship between level of choice and perception of free will is influentially bidirectional. It is also possible that one's desire for control, or other basic motivational patterns, act as a third variable.\n\nIn recent years, free will belief in individuals has been analysed with respect to traits in social behaviour. In general the concept of free will researched to date in this context has been that of the incompatibilist, or more specifically, the libertarian, that is freedom from determinism.\n\nWhether people naturally adhere to an incompatibilist model of free will has been questioned in the research. Eddy Nahmias has found that incompatibilism is not intuitive – it was not adhered to, in that determinism does not negate belief in moral responsibility (based on an empirical study of people's responses to moral dilemmas under a deterministic model of reality). Edward Cokely has found that incompatibilism is intuitive – it was naturally adhered to, in that determinism does indeed negate belief in moral responsibility in general. Joshua Knobe and Shaun Nichols have proposed that incompatibilism may or may not be intuitive, and that it is dependent to some large degree upon the circumstances; whether or not the crime incites an emotional response – for example if it involves harming another human being. They found that belief in free will is a cultural universal, and that the majority of participants said that (a) our universe is indeterministic and (b) moral responsibility is not compatible with determinism.\n\nStudies indicate that peoples' belief in free will is inconsistent. Emily Pronin and Matthew Kugler found that people believe they have more free will than others.\n\nStudies also reveal a correlation between the likelihood of accepting a deterministic model of mind and personality type. For example, Adam Feltz and Edward Cokely found that people of an extrovert personality type are more likely to dissociate belief in determinism from belief in moral responsibility.\n\nRoy Baumeister and colleagues reviewed literature on the psychological effects of a belief (or disbelief) in free will. The first part of their analysis (which the only relevant part to this section) was not meant to discover the types of free will that actually exist. The researchers instead sought to identify what people believe, how many people believed it, and the effects of those beliefs. Baumeister found that most people tend to believe in a sort of \"naive compatibilistic free will\".\n\nThe researchers also found that people consider acts more \"free\" when they involve a person opposing external forces, planning, or making random actions. Notably, the last behaviour, \"random\" actions, may not be possible; when participants attempt to perform tasks in a random manner (such as generating random numbers), their behaviour betrays many patterns.\n\nTaking into account all these personal variables existing in the debates over free will, Manuel Vargas has generally assumed that in fact “there is nearly always an unremarked upon elephant that lurks in rooms where philosophers discuss free will”, but he particularly pointed to the role of (i)religion in motivating and sustaining various accounts of free will. As he put,My guess is that we would learn that a disproportionate number—perhaps even most—libertarians are religious and, especially, Christian. I suspect we would also learn that the overwhelming majority of compatibilists are atheist or agnostic. (I do not have a guess about the religious predilections of the various stripes of skeptical incompatibilists.) Even so, it may not be obvious why the religious beliefs of particular philosophers should matter. We could think that the arguments of the various partisans in free will debates should be judged on their merits, irrespective of whether or not they have religious motivation. However, systematically ignoring the role of religion can remove important considerations from view, considerations that affect how we think about, argue, and evaluate the various philosophical possibilities.For example, by a detailed analysis of the writings and work of Arthur Eddington and Arthur Holy Compton in the English speaking world of the late 1920s and 1930s, one analysis clearly revealed not only a strong intrinsic religious motivation and specific conservative worldview concerns behind their own work on free will, but also similar personal, political and ideological factors, only of the opposite sign, in their opponents.\n\nA recent 2009 survey has shown that compatibilism is quite a popular stance among those who specialize in philosophy (59%). Belief in libertarianism amounted to 14%, while a lack of belief in free will equaled 12%. More than a half of surveyed people were US Americans.\n\n79 percent of evolutionary biologists said that they believe in free-will according to a survey conducted in 2007, only 14 percent chose no free will, and 7 percent did not answer the question.\n\nBaumeister and colleagues found that provoking disbelief in free will seems to cause various negative effects. The authors concluded, in their paper, that it is belief in determinism that causes those negative effects. This may not be a very justified conclusion, however. First of all, free will can at least refer to either libertarian (indeterministic) free will or compatibilistic (deterministic) free will. Having participants read articles that simply \"disprove free will\" is unlikely to increase their understanding of determinism, or the compatibilistic free will that it still permits.\n\nIn other words, \"provoking disbelief in free will\" probably causes a belief in fatalism. As discussed earlier in this article, compatibilistic free will is illustrated by statements like \"my choices have causes, and an effect – so I affect my future\", whereas fatalism is more like \"my choices have causes, but no effect – I am powerless\". Fatalism, then, may be what threatens people's sense of self-efficacy. Lay people should not confuse fatalism with determinism, and yet even professional philosophers occasionally confuse the two. It is thus likely that the negative consequences below can be accounted for by participants developing a belief in \"fatalism\" when experiments attack belief in \"free will\". To test the effects of belief in determinism, future studies would need to provide articles that do not simply \"attack free will\", but instead focus on explaining determinism and compatibilism. Some studies have been conducted indicating that people react strongly to the way in which mental determinism is described, when reconciling it with moral responsibility. Eddy Nahmias has noted that when people's actions are framed with respect to their beliefs and desires (rather than their neurological underpinnings), they are more likely to dissociate determinism from moral responsibility.\n\nVarious social behavioural traits have been correlated with the belief in deterministic models of mind, some of which involved the experimental subjection of individuals to libertarian and deterministic perspectives.\n\nAfter researchers provoked volunteers to disbelieve in free will, participants lied, cheated, and stole more. Kathleen Vohs has found that those whose belief in free will had been eroded were more likely to cheat. In a study conducted by Roy Baumeister, after participants read an article arguing against free will, they were more likely to lie about their performance on a test where they would be rewarded with cash. Provoking a rejection of free will has also been associated with increased aggression and less helpful behaviour as well as mindless conformity. Disbelief in free will can even cause people to feel less guilt about transgressions against others.\n\nBaumeister and colleagues also note that volunteers disbelieving in free will are less capable of counterfactual thinking. This is worrying because counterfactual thinking (\"If I had done something different...\") is an important part of learning from one's choices, including those that harmed others. Again, this cannot be taken to mean that belief in determinism is to blame; these are the results we would expect from increasing people's belief in fatalism.\n\nAlong similar lines, Tyler Stillman has found that belief in free will predicts better job performance.\n\nThe six orthodox (astika) schools of thought in Hindu philosophy do not agree with each other entirely on the question of free will. For the Samkhya, for instance, matter is without any freedom, and soul lacks any ability to control the unfolding of matter. The only real freedom (\"kaivalya\") consists in realizing the ultimate separateness of matter and self. For the Yoga school, only Ishvara is truly free, and its freedom is also distinct from all feelings, thoughts, actions, or wills, and is thus not at all a freedom of will. The metaphysics of the Nyaya and Vaisheshika schools strongly suggest a belief in determinism, but do not seem to make explicit claims about determinism or free will.\n\nA quotation from Swami Vivekananda, a Vedantist, offers a good example of the worry about free will in the Hindu tradition.\n\nHowever, the preceding quote has often been misinterpreted as Vivekananda implying that everything is predetermined. What Vivekananda actually meant by lack of free will was that the will was not \"free\" because it was heavily influenced by the law of cause and effect – \"The will is not free, it is a phenomenon bound by cause and effect, but there is something behind the will which is free.\" Vivekananda never said things were absolutely determined and placed emphasis on the power of conscious choice to alter one's past karma: \"It is the coward and the fool who says this is his fate. But it is the strong man who stands up and says I will make my own fate.\"\n\nBuddhism accepts both freedom and determinism (or something similar to it), but in spite of its focus towards the human agency, rejects the western concept of a total agent from external sources. According to the Buddha, \"There is free action, there is retribution, but I see no agent that passes out from one set of momentary elements into another one, except the [connection] of those elements.\" Buddhists believe in neither absolute free will, nor determinism. It preaches a middle doctrine, named \"pratitya-samutpada\" in Sanskrit, often translated as \"inter-dependent arising\". This theory is also called \"Conditioned Genesis\" or \"Dependent Origination\". It teaches that every volition is a conditioned action as a result of ignorance. In part, it states that free will is inherently conditioned and not \"free\" to begin with. It is also part of the theory of karma in Buddhism. The concept of karma in Buddhism is different from the notion of karma in Hinduism. In Buddhism, the idea of karma is much less deterministic. The Buddhist notion of karma is primarily focused on the cause and effect of moral actions in this life, while in Hinduism the concept of karma is more often connected with determining one's destiny in future lives.\n\nIn Buddhism it is taught that the idea of absolute freedom of choice (that is that any human being could be completely free to make any choice) is unwise, because it denies the reality of one's physical needs and circumstances. Equally incorrect is the idea that humans have no choice in life or that their lives are pre-determined. To deny freedom would be to deny the efforts of Buddhists to make moral progress (through our capacity to freely choose compassionate action). \"Pubbekatahetuvada\", the belief that all happiness and suffering arise from previous actions, is considered a wrong view according to Buddhist doctrines. Because Buddhists also reject agenthood, the traditional compatibilist strategies are closed to them as well. Instead, the Buddhist philosophical strategy is to examine the metaphysics of causality. Ancient India had many heated arguments about the nature of causality with Jains, Nyayists, Samkhyists, Cārvākans, and Buddhists all taking slightly different lines. In many ways, the Buddhist position is closer to a theory of \"conditionality\" than a theory of \"causality\", especially as it is expounded by Nagarjuna in the \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\".\n\nThe notions of free will and predestination are heavily debated among Christians. Free will in the Christian sense is the ability to choose between good or evil. Among Catholics, there are those holding to Thomism, adopted from what Thomas Aquinas put forth in the \"Summa Theologica.\" There are also some holding to Molinism which was put forth by Jesuit priest Luis de Molina. Among Protestants there is Arminianism, held primarily by Methodist and some Baptist, and formulated by Dutch theologian Jacobus Arminius; and there is also Calvinism held by most in the Reformed tradition which was formulated by the French Reformed theologian, John Calvin. John Calvin was heavily influenced by Augustine of Hippo views on predestination put forth in his work \"On the Predestination of the Saints.\" Martin Luther seems to hold views on predestination similar to Calvinism in his \"On the Bondage of the Will,\" thus rejecting free will. In condemnation of Calvin and Luther views, the Council of Trent declared that \"the free will of man, moved and excited by God, can by its consent co-operate with God, Who excites and invites its action; and that it can thereby dispose and prepare itself to obtain the grace of justification. The will can resist grace if it chooses. It is not like a lifeless thing, which remains purely passive. Weakened and diminished by Adam's fall, free will is yet not destroyed in the race (Sess. VI, cap. i and v).\"\n\nPaul the Apostle discusses Predestination in some of his Epistles.\n\n\"\"For whom He foreknew, He also predestined to become conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the first-born among many brethren; and whom He predestined, these He also called; and whom He called, these He also justified; and whom He justified, these He also glorified.\"” —Romans 8:29–30\n\n“\"He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the kind intention of His will.\"” —Ephesians 1:5\n\nThe exact meaning of these verses has been debated by Christian theologians throughout history.\n\nMaimonides reasoned that human beings have free will (at least in the context of choosing to do good or evil). Without free will, the demands of the prophets would have been meaningless, there would be no need for the Torah, and justice could not be administered. In Maimonides's view, human free will is granted by God as part of the universe's design.\n\nIn Islam the theological issue is not usually how to reconcile free will with God's foreknowledge, but with God's \"jabr\", or divine commanding power. al-Ash'ari developed an \"acquisition\" or \"dual-agency\" form of compatibilism, in which human free will and divine \"jabr\" were both asserted, and which became a cornerstone of the dominant Ash'ari position. In Shia Islam, Ash'aris understanding of a higher balance toward predestination is challenged by most theologians. Free will, according to Islamic doctrine is the main factor for man's accountability in his/her actions throughout life. Actions taken by people exercising free will are counted on the Day of Judgement because they are their own; however, the free will happens with the permission of God.\n\nThe philosopher Søren Kierkegaard claimed that divine omnipotence cannot be separated from divine goodness. As a truly omnipotent and good being, God could create beings with true freedom over God. Furthermore, God would voluntarily do so because \"the greatest good ... which can be done for a being, greater than anything else that one can do for it, is to be truly free.\" Alvin Plantinga's \"free will defense\" is a contemporary expansion of this theme, adding how God, free will, and evil are consistent.\n\nSome philosophers follow William of Ockham in holding that necessity and possibility are defined with respect to a given point in time and a given matrix of empirical circumstances, and so something that is merely possible from the perspective of one observer may be necessary from the perspective of an omniscient. Some philosophers follow Philo of Alexandria, a philosopher known for his homocentrism, in holding that free will is a feature of a human's soul, and thus that non-human animals lack free will.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "411616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411616", "title": "Gemini 12", "text": "Gemini 12\n\nGemini 12 (officially Gemini XII) was a 1966 manned spaceflight in NASA's Project Gemini. It was the 10th and final manned Gemini flight, the 18th manned American spaceflight, and the 26th spaceflight of all time, including X-15 flights over . Commanded by Gemini VII veteran James A. Lovell, the flight featured three periods of extravehicular activity (EVA) by rookie Edwin \"Buzz\" Aldrin, lasting a total of 5 hours and 30 minutes. It also achieved the fifth rendezvous and fourth docking with an Agena target vehicle.\n\nGemini XII marked a successful conclusion of the Gemini program, achieving the last of its goals by successfully demonstrating that astronauts can effectively work outside of spacecraft. This was instrumental in paving the way for the Apollo program to achieve its goal of landing a man on the Moon by the end of the 1960s.\n\n\n\n\n\nLiftoff of the Atlas/Agena Target Vehicle occurred at 2:07:59 PM EST, and of the Gemini/Titan spacecraft at 3:46:33 PM EST, on November 11. All launch vehicle systems performed nominally during powered flight, but at staging there was a recurrence of the first stage oxidizer tank rupture first seen on Gemini 10's launch. On Gemini 12, the fuel tank appeared to have also ruptured as a white cloud was seen emitting from the spent stage along with the orange nitrogen tetroxide. Another episode of \"Green Man\" also occurred at SECO, referring to pitch gyrations caused by pressure buildup in the second stage protective skirt.\n\nAt the completion of the previous Gemini flight, the program still had not demonstrated that an astronaut could work easily and efficiently outside the spacecraft. In preparation for Gemini XII new, improved restraints were added to the outside of the capsule, and a new technique—underwater training—was introduced, which would become a staple of future space-walk simulation. Aldrin's two-hour, 20-minute tethered space-walk, during which he photographed star fields, retrieved a micrometeorite collector and did other chores, at last demonstrated the feasibility of extravehicular activity. Two more stand-up EVAs also went smoothly, as did the by-now routine rendezvous and docking with an Agena which was done \"manually\" using the onboard computer and charts when a rendezvous radar failed. The climb to a higher orbit, however, was canceled because of a problem with the Agena booster.\n\nDuring orbital injection, the GATV engine experienced a drop in turbopump speed lasting about 2.5 seconds. After this, pump performance returned to normal. Telemetry data indicated erratic pump speeds, but engine performance did not reflect this. Ground controllers decided not to risk the planned orbital boost maneuver since the exact reason for the pump slowdown was unclear. Following Gemini 12's reentry and during the GATV's 63rd orbit, they attempted to fire the propulsion system, but a stuck fuel valve prevented engine start from occurring.\n\nIt was suspected that a turbopump bearing failure caused the anomalous conditions during orbital injection, followed by heating and melting of pump components. The inability of ground controllers to start the engine during the 63rd orbit was possibly due to melted or loose debris blocking the fuel valve and preventing its operation. The telemetry data falsely reporting erratic pump speed was concluded to be debris being knocked around and affecting the data probes.\n\nMany documentaries afterward largely credit the spacewalk innovations, including the underwater training, to Aldrin himself.\n\nGemini 12 was designed to perform rendezvous and docking with the Agena target vehicle, to conduct three extra-vehicular activity (EVA) operations, to conduct a tethered stationkeeping exercise, to perform docked maneuvers using the Agena propulsion system to change orbit, and demonstrate an automatic reentry.\n\nWhen Gemini 12 was being planned, one of the possibilities raised was the potential for the flight to be run in conjunction with the first Apollo mission, which had been tentatively scheduled for the last quarter of 1966. By May 1966, delays in making Apollo ready for flight just by itself, and the extra time needed to incorporate compatibility with the Gemini, made that impractical. This became moot when slippage in readiness of the Apollo spacecraft caused the last-quarter 1966 target date to be missed, and the Apollo mission was rescheduled for February 21, 1967. \n\nThe 14 scientific experiments were (1) frog egg growth under zero-g, (2) synoptic terrain photography, (3) synoptic weather photography, (4) nuclear emulsions, (5) airglow horizon photography, (6) UV astronomical photography, and (7) dim sky photography. Two micrometeorite collection experiments, as well as three space phenomena photography experiments, were not fully completed.\n\nThe capsule was controlled on reentry by computer and splashed down 4.8 kilometers from its target. The crew were taken aboard the aircraft carrier .\n\nThe Gemini 12 mission was supported by the following U.S. Department of Defense resources; 9,775 personnel, 65 aircraft and 12 ships.\n\nPostflight medical examination disclosed no unusual conditions in either astronaut. Both were slightly exhausted and dehydrated due to problems with the spacecraft's water supply system forcing them to reduce their fluid intake on the last day of the mission and Lovell had a mild case of pinkeye.\n\nThe patch's unique orange and black colors are a link to the flight's original scheduled date close to Halloween. The Roman numeral XII is located at the 12 o'clock position on the face of a clock, with the Gemini spacecraft pointing to it like the hour hand of a clock. This represents the position of Gemini 12 as the last flight of the Gemini program. With the Apollo project following this last flight of the Gemini program, the ultimate objective—the Moon—is symbolized by the crescent on the left.\n\nAfter several years at the Museum of Transport and Technology, in Auckland, New Zealand, the spacecraft was returned to the United States. It is now on display at the Adler Planetarium, Chicago, Illinois. Lovell and Aldrin were reunited with the spacecraft November 9, 2006 during the opening for Adler's \"Shoot for the Moon\" exhibit, almost 40 years after the mission launched.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6079418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6079418", "title": "Gerontechnology", "text": "Gerontechnology\n\nGerontechnology is an inter- and multidisciplinary academic and professional field combining gerontology and technology. Sustainability of an ageing society depends upon our effectiveness in creating technological environments, including assistive technology and inclusive design, for innovative and independent living and social participation of older adults in any state of health, comfort and safety. In short, gerontechnology concerns matching technological environments to health, housing, mobility, communication, leisure and work of older people. Research outcomes form the basis for designers, builders, engineers, manufacturers, and those in the health professions (nursing, medicine, gerontology, geriatrics, environmental psychology, developmental psychology, etc.), to provide an optimum living environment for the widest range of ages.\n\nGerontechnology, which has also been called gerotechnology is considered an adjunct to the promotion of human health and well-being. It pertains to both human development and aging with the aim to compress morbidity and to increase vitality and quality of life throughout the life-span. It creates solutions to extend the working phase in society by maximizing the vital and productive years in the later years of life, which consequently reduces the cost of care.\n\nThe overall framework of gerontechnology may be seen as a matrix of domains of human activity: (1) health & self-esteem, housing & activities of daily living, communication & governance, mobility & transport, work & leisure, and (2) technology interventions or impact levels (enhancement & satisfaction, prevention & engagement, compensation & assistance, care and care organisation). Underpinning all these elements are generic and applied evidence-based research. Such research supports the development of products and services.\n\nGerontechnology has much in common with other interdisciplinary domains, such as Assistive Technology (for the compensation & assistance and the care support & care organisation rows of the matrix), and Universal Design for the development of all products and services pertaining to gerontechnology.\n\nGerontological design focuses on providing effective solutions to improve the way of life for aging people, through gerontological knowledge and design research methods to obtain a better understanding of individuals' preferences and requirements.\n\nGerontological design also refers specifically to the study and practice of building design methods that support elderly users in the built environment. Some universities host professors, commonly in architecture or interior design departments, that specialize in the study and teaching of this design specialization. Not only does this include the examination of building design characteristics that impact older adults' physiological well-being, but it can also include the investigation of building design characteristics that impact informational needs (i.e. finding one's way around in a space) or social interaction needs (Campbell, 2012).\n\nBetween 2008 and 2030, Singapore will witness an age profile shift in its population's history. In 2005, one in 12 residents was 65 years or older. By 2030, one in five residents will be 65 years or older. Studies show that in 2002, 7% of the world's population is aged 65 and above. By 2050, it is envisaged that the percentage could rise to nearly 17%. The aging population and its impact on economics, politics, education and lifestyle is no longer an isolated issue but a global concern. Products and services relevant to the \"silver industry\" or the \"mature market\" increasingly abound in the marketplace. The demand for designers with a keen sense for the aging population's needs who employ gerontological design process knowledge concomitantly rises.\n\nAn international academic journal with delayed open-access, Gerontechnology , is published by the International Society for Gerontechnology (ISG) .\n\nA comprehensive edited book \"Gerontechnology\" has been published in 2016.\n\n The first ISG Masterclass for PhD students in 2006 produced a scheme to support gerontechnological research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1279731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279731", "title": "Ghost Stations", "text": "Ghost Stations\n\nGhost Stations is a series of books by the British military historian Bruce Barrymore Halpenny, containing ostensibly true ghost and mystery stories generally connected to the RAF, airfields and other military or war connected stories.\n\nBruce Halpenny had been writing ghost stories in the 1960s and encountering ghost stories in his exhaustive research into airfield histories, when he decided they should form the subject of a special book, and so started to add to and research his “ghost-mystery” files about abandoned airfields that \"murmur and whisper with ghosts\". Halpenny had by 1984 become acknowledged as a respected British military historian, expert in airfield histories, and expert in \"RAF ghosts\", especially surrounding airfields.\n\nThe author has since the 1960s been presenting evidence of paranormal activity on airfields, as well as campaigning for not just the Government to do their part and preserve a 1939–45 War airfield, in its original condition to let future generations see, but also for the history of each to be recorded fully and the men and sacrifice never forgotten.\n\n\"Ghost Stations\" was officially launched at RAF Wittering on Thursday 16 October 1986. The book took 18 months to compile and drew upon the author's knowledge and experience working in airfields and documenting their history. \"Ghost Stations\" proved a best seller and was followed by a second book, entitled, \"Aaargh!\" that was published with over 30 \"ghostly and mysterious\" tales, one of which was \"The eerie mystery of Lightning 894\". \"Aaargh!\", was later to become \"Ghost Stations 2\" as six more books followed over the years.\n\n\"GHOST STATIONS\" became a trademark in the late 1980s and in 2008 the new Ghost Stations series, based on the original series, was brought out. In the new series the stories had been shuffled around and merged, thus a story that was being investigated by Bruce Halpenny that was in several books in the old series, were merged into one story in one book in the new series. Also regional books were created in the new series, with \"Ghost Stations Lincolnshire\", already for some Lincolnshire bookshops, one of their best sellers. The author's son, commercial artist, book editor and writer, Baron Barrymore Halpenny had a hand in the book cover design from the original series to the new series.\n\nThe author expresses his beliefs in the supernatural:\n\nThe original eight Ghost Stations books were:\n\n\nThe new Ghost Stations books (as of 2008) that are published by L'Aquila Publishing\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50336055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50336055", "title": "Glossary of artificial intelligence", "text": "Glossary of artificial intelligence\n\n\"Most of the terms listed in Wikipedia glossaries are already defined and explained within Wikipedia itself. However, glossaries like this one are useful for looking up, comparing and reviewing large numbers of terms together. You can help enhance this page by adding new terms or writing definitions for existing ones.\"\n\nThis glossary of artificial intelligence terms is about artificial intelligence, its sub-disciplines, and related fields.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25727132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25727132", "title": "Gulf snapping turtle", "text": "Gulf snapping turtle\n\nThe Gulf snapping turtle or Lavaracks' turtle (\"Elseya lavarackorum\") is a large species of freshwater turtle in the sidenecked family Chelidae. The species is specific to northern Australia in northwest Queensland and northeast Northern Territory. The species, similar to other members of the Australian snapping turtles in genus \"Elseya,\" only comes ashore to lay eggs and bask. The Gulf snapping turtle is a herbivore and primarily consumes \"pandanus\" and figs.\n\nThe specific name, \"lavarackorum\" (genitive plural), is in honor of Australian paleontologists Jim Lavarack and Sue Lavarack who discovered the fossil remains of this species.\n\nThe species was first described in 1994 as \"Emydura lavarackorum\" after fossil material was found in Riversleigh in northwest Queensland. It was later demonstrated anatomically that because of its anterior bridge struts that it actually belonged to the genus \"Elseya\" and further to a living, although undescribed form. The species was also declared at this time to be Australia's first living fossil freshwater turtle and an extant population of a Pleistocene taxon. The latter gained significant public attention to this species after a story was published in Discover Magazine in January 1997. After placing this species in the correct genus, it was possible to look at the deeper phylogeny of the \"Elseya.\" This species lends its name to the group within the \"Elseya\" known as the Queensland \"Elseya\" or \"Elseya lavarackorum\" group. This is a unique group of species that includes \"Elseya lavarackorum\" along with \"Elseya albagula\" and \"Elseya irwini\", and all three are divergent from the \"Elseya dentata\" group.\n\n\nThe turtle is a large, brown to dark brown, short-necked turtle. Its carapace, or upper shell, reaches in length; it has an undulating suture between the hemeral and pectoral shields in the white plastron, or under shell. The undulating (rather than straight) suture in the plastron distinguishes it from the northern snapping turtle (\"Elseya dentata\").\n\nThe turtle is restricted to rivers draining into the Gulf of Carpentaria in the Northern Territory and Queensland. These rivers range from the Nicholson to Calvert River systems in the Northern Territory to the Gregory River in Queensland.\n\nThe turtles are primarily herbivorous and eat fruits, flowers, leaves, bark and \"Pandanus\" roots, and the juveniles also eat insect larvae. Figs are also an important food for the turtles. Despite their usually herbivorous diet, these turtles are readily trapped using meat as bait. Their eggs are laid in soil near the edge of the water.\n\nThe turtle is listed as Endangered under the Commonwealth \"Endangered Species Protection Act 1992\", as Vulnerable under Queensland's \"Nature Conservation Act 1992\", and as of Least Concern under the Northern Territory's \"Territory Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 2000\".\n\nThe main threats to the turtle include disturbance to nesting sites by feral animals such as pigs, habitat destruction by grazing and watering cattle, and potentially through changes to hydrology, disturbance, and climate change. In addition to these main threats, they've been shown to sometimes get caught in fishing nets.\n\n"}
{"id": "949358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949358", "title": "Hans Ackermann", "text": "Hans Ackermann\n\nHans Ackermann (16th century) was a German dramatist, living in Zwickau. He was a close friend of Paul Rebhun, another contemporary dramatist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2051700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2051700", "title": "Histogenesis", "text": "Histogenesis\n\nHistogenesis is the formation of different tissues from undifferentiated cells. These cells are constituents of three primary germ layers, the endoderm, mesoderm, and ectoderm. The science of the microscopic structures of the tissues formed within histogenesis is termed histology.\n\nA germ layer is a collection of cells, formed during animal and mammalian embryogenesis. Germ layers are typically pronounced within vertebrate organisms; however, animals or mammals more complex than sponges (eumetazoans and ) produce two or three primary tissue layers. Animals with radial symmetry, such as cnidarians, produce two layers, called the ectoderm and endoderm. Therefore, they are diploblastic. Animals with bilateral symmetry produce a third layer in-between called mesoderm, making them triploblastic. Germ layers will eventually give rise to all of an animal’s or mammal's tissues and organs through a process called organogenesis.\n\nThe endoderm is one of the germ to penes \nlayers formed during animal embryogenesis. Cells migrating inward along the archenteron form the inner layer of the gastrula, which develops into the endoderm. Initially, the endoderm consists of flattened cells, which subsequently become columnar.\n\nThe mesoderm germ layer forms in the embryos of animals and mammals more complex than cnidarians, making them triploblastic. During gastrulation, some of the cells migrating inward to form the endoderm form an additional layer between the endoderm and the ectoderm. A theory suggests that this key innovation evolved hundreds of millions of years ago and led to the evolution of nearly all large, complex animals. The formation of a mesoderm led to the formation of a coelom. Organs formed inside a coelom can freely move, grow, and develop independently of the body wall while fluid cushions and protects them from shocks.\n\nThe ectoderm is the start of a tissue that covers the body surfaces. It emerges first and forms from the outermost of the germ layers.\n\nThe proceeding graph represents the products produced by the three germ layers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54977651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54977651", "title": "Innocence Lost (TV series)", "text": "Innocence Lost (TV series)\n\nInnocence Lost () is a Chinese lifestyle documentary show about child labour which produced by Mediacorp Channel U from Singapore. It is hosted an rotating persons, which presented by Diana Ser, Joanna Dong and Danny Yeo on difference episodes. Lifestyle documentary show are introduce the employment of children in any work, the child from poverty family, who have lose their adolescence, interfered their ability to attend school in regularly, also dangerous and harmful to physically, mentally, socially and morally.\n\nEvery episodes duration taken 46 minutes to telecast, the first season have 10 episodes was released on 19 April 2016, and the second season have 8 episodes was released on 7 February 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "191104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191104", "title": "Jackie Coogan", "text": "Jackie Coogan\n\nJohn Leslie Coogan (October 26, 1914 – March 1, 1984) was an American actor and comedian who began his movie career as a child actor in silent films.\n\nCharlie Chaplin's film classic \"The Kid\" (1921) made him one of the first child stars in film history. He later sued his mother and stepfather over his squandered film earnings and provoked California to enact the first known legal protection for the earnings of child performers, widely known as the Coogan Act. Coogan continued to act throughout his life, later earning renewed fame in middle age portraying Uncle Fester in the 1960s TV series \"The Addams Family\".\n\nHe was born as John Leslie Coogan in 1914 in Los Angeles, California, to John Henry Coogan Jr. and Lillian Rita (Dolliver) Coogan. He began performing as an infant in both vaudeville and film, with an uncredited role in the 1917 film \"Skinner's Baby\". Charlie Chaplin discovered him in the Orpheum Theatre, a vaudeville house in Los Angeles, on the stage doing the shimmy, a dance popular at the time. Coogan's father was also an actor, as was his younger brother, Robert Coogan. Jackie Coogan was a natural mimic and delighted Chaplin with his abilities. Chaplin cast him in a small role in \"A Day's Pleasure\" (1919). He was Chaplin's irascible companion in \"The Kid\" (1921) and the following year played the title role in \"Oliver Twist\", directed by Frank Lloyd. Coogan was one of the first stars to be heavily merchandised. Peanut butter, stationery, whistles, dolls, records, and figurines were among the Coogan-themed merchandise on sale.\nCoogan was tutored until the age of 10, when he entered Urban Military Academy and other prep schools. He attended several colleges, as well as the University of Southern California. In 1932, he dropped out of Santa Clara University because of poor grades.\n\nIn November 1933, 22-year-old Brooke Hart, a close friend of Coogan from Santa Clara University and heir to a successful department store in San Jose, was kidnapped as he drove his car out of a parking lot. After several demands for a $40,000 ransom were delivered to the family, police arrested Thomas Thurmond and John Holmes in San Jose. Thurmond admitted that he and Holmes had murdered Hart the same day he was kidnapped. Both killers were transferred to a jail in downtown San Jose. A mob broke into the jail, and Thurmond and Holmes were hanged from a tree in a nearby park, with the unapologetic approval of the state's governor. Coogan was reported to be present and to have held the lynching rope.\n\nIn 1935, 20-year-old Coogan was the sole survivor of a car crash in eastern San Diego County that killed his father; his best friend, 19-year-old actor Junior Durkin; their ranch foreman, Charles Jones; and actor and writer Robert J. Horner. The party was returning from a day of dove hunting over the border in Mexico in early May. With his father at the wheel, the car was forced off the mountain highway near Pine Valley by an oncoming vehicle and rolled down an embankment.\n\nAs a child star, Coogan earned an estimated $3 to $4 million. When he turned 21 in October 1935, his fortune was believed to be well intact. His assets had been conservatively managed by his father, who had died in the car accident less than six months earlier.\n\nHowever, Coogan found that the entire amount had been spent by his mother and stepfather, Arthur Bernstein, on fur coats, diamonds and other jewelry, and expensive cars. Bernstein had been a financial advisor for the family and married Coogan's mother in late 1936. Coogan's mother and stepfather claimed Jackie enjoyed himself and simply thought he was playing before the camera. She insisted, \"No promises were ever made to give Jackie anything\", and claimed he \"was a bad boy\". Coogan sued them in 1938, but after his legal expenses, he received just $126,000 of the $250,000 remaining of his earnings. When he fell on hard times and asked Charlie Chaplin for assistance, Chaplin handed him $1,000 without hesitating.\n\nThe legal battle focused attention on child actors and resulted in the 1939 enactment of the California Child Actor's Bill, often referred to as the \"Coogan Law\" or the \"Coogan Act\". It required that a child actor's employer set aside 15% of the earnings in a trust (called a Coogan account), and specified the actor's schooling, work hours, and time off.\n\nCoogan worked with Near East relief, he toured across the United States and Europe in 1924 on a \"Children's Crusade\" as part of his fundraising drive, which provided more than $1 million in clothing, food, and other contributions (worth more than $13 million in 2012 dollars). He was honored by officials in the United States, Greece, and Rome, where he had an audience with Pope Pius XI.\n\nA Roman Catholic, Coogan was a member of the Good Shepherd Parish and the Catholic Motion Picture Guild in Beverly Hills.\n\nCoogan appeared with then-wife Betty Grable in \"College Swing\", a 1938 musical comedy starring George Burns, Gracie Allen, Martha Raye and Bob Hope.\n\nIn 1940, Coogan played the role of \"a playboy Broadway producer\" in the \"Society Girl\" program on CBS radio. He also starred in his own program, \"Forever Ernest\", on CBS from April 29, 1946, to July 22, 1946.\n\nCoogan enlisted in the U.S. Army in March 1941. After the attack on Pearl Harbor that December, he requested a transfer to Army Air Forces as a glider pilot because of his civilian flying experience. Graduating the Advanced Glider School with the Glider Pilot aeronautical rating and the rank of Flight Officer, he volunteered for hazardous duty with the 1st Air Commando Group.\n\nIn December 1943, the unit was sent to India. He flew British troops, the Chindits, under General Orde Wingate on March 5, 1944, landing them at night in a small jungle clearing behind Japanese lines in the Burma Campaign.\nAfter the war, Coogan returned to acting, taking mostly character roles and appearing on television. From 1952 to 1953, he played Stoney Crockett on the syndicated series \"Cowboy G-Men\". He guest-starred on NBC's \"The Martha Raye Show\". He appeared too, as Corbett, in two episodes of NBC's \"The Outlaws\" with Barton MacLane, which aired from 1960–1962. In the 1960–1961 season, he guest-starred in the episode \"The Damaged Dolls\" of the syndicated crime drama \"The Brothers Brannagan\". In 1961, he guest-starred in an episode of \"The Americans\", an NBC series about family divisions stemming from the Civil War. He also appeared in episode 37, titled \"Barney on the Rebound\", of \"The Andy Griffith Show\", which aired October 31, 1961. He had a regular role in a 1962–63 NBC series, \"McKeever and the Colonel\". He finally found his most famous television role as Uncle Fester in ABC's \"The Addams Family\" (1964–1966). He appeared as a police officer in the Elvis Presley comedy \"Girl Happy\" in 1965.\n\nHe appeared four times on the \"Perry Mason\" series, including the role of political activist Gus Sawyer in the 1963 episode, \"The Case of the Witless Witness\", and TV prop man Pete Desmond in the final episode, \"The Case of the Final Fadeout\", in 1966. He was a guest several times on \"The Red Skelton Show\", appeared twice on \"The Brady Bunch\" (\"The Fender Benders\" and \"Double Parked\"), \"I Dream of Jeannie\" (as Jeannie's uncle, Suleiman – Maharaja of Basenji), \"Family Affair\", \"Here's Lucy\" and \"The Brian Keith Show\", and continued to guest-star on television (including multiple appearances on \"The Partridge Family\", \"The Wild Wild West\", \"Hawaii Five-O\", and \"McMillan and Wife\") until his retirement in the middle 1970s.\n\nCoogan was married four times, and had four children. His first three marriages to actresses were short-lived. He and Betty Grable were engaged in 1935 and married on November 20, 1937,\n\nDorothea Odetta Hanson, also known as Dorothea Lamphere, best known as Dodie, was a dancer and became Coogan's fourth wife in April 1952 and they were together over thirty years, until his death. She died in 1999. They had two children together, a daughter, Leslie Diane Coogan, born November 24, 1953, in Los Angeles, and a son, Christopher Fenton Coogan, born July 9, 1967, in Riverside County, who died in a motorcycle accident in Palm Springs on June 29, 1990.\n\nLeslie Coogan has a son, actor Keith Coogan, who was born Keith Eric Mitchell on January 13, 1970, being three years younger than his uncle Christopher. He began acting in 1975, and changed his name in 1986, two years after his grandfather's death. His roles include the oldest son in \"Adventures in Babysitting\". Footage of Jackie with his grandson, Keith can be seen in the 1982 documentary \"Hollywood's Children\".\n\nAfter suffering from heart and kidney ailments, Coogan succumbed to heart failure on March 1, 1984, at age 69, in Santa Monica, California. He had previously suffered several strokes and had been undergoing kidney dialysis when his blood pressure dropped. Coogan was taken to Santa Monica Hospital, where he died from cardiac arrest.\n\nAt his request, Coogan's funeral was open to the public and he was buried at Holy Cross Cemetery in Culver City. His star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame is located at 1654 Vine Street, just south of Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9472247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9472247", "title": "Joseph Henry Widdifield", "text": "Joseph Henry Widdifield\n\nJoseph Henry Widdifield (June 12, 1845 – June 3, 1906) was an Ontario physician and political figure. He represented York North in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario as a Liberal member from 1875 to 1888.\n\nHe was born in Whitchurch, Upper Canada in 1845, the son of Charles Ellis Widdifield, and studied medicine at Victoria College and St Thomas's Hospital Medical School in London. On his return to Canada, Widdifield set up practice in Newmarket. He served as a coroner and justice of the peace of Victoria County. He also served in the militia during the Fenian raids. He was whip for the provincial Liberal party from 1877 to 1883. Widdifield served as deputy Grand Master for the Masonic order in the Toronto district and also served as provincial medical examiner for the order. In 1888, he resigned his seat in the assembly to accept the position of sheriff for York County.\n\nIn 1965 Widdifield Secondary School in the Widdifield District of North Bay was named after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "57912612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57912612", "title": "Keanolani", "text": "Keanolani\n\nKeanolani (July 7, 1847 – June 30, 1902) was a Hawaiian chiefess (aliʻi) of the Kingdom of Hawaii. She was the illegitimate daughter of Abigail Maheha and King Kamehameha V, who reigned from 1863 to 1872, and was born during a liaison between the two when they were students at the Chiefs' Children's School (later renamed the Royal School), a boarding school run by American missionaries for students of Hawaiian royal descent. Keanolani was raised by her father's half-sister Keʻelikōlani. Her illegitimate birth and unacknowledged parentage prevented her from succeeding to the Hawaiian throne when her father died without naming an heir, thus ending the reign of the House of Kamehameha. In 1873, she became a mistress of her uncle by marriage William Hoapili Kaʻauwai. In 1874, she became a supporter of the newly elected House of Kalākaua. She married and left descendants. Her name is also often spelled as Keano or Keanu. In one source, she is named as Keauoʻokalau.\n\nKeanolani was born July 7, 1847, on the island of Kauaʻi. Her birth occurred five months after her mother, thirteen-year-old Abigail Maheha, had an arranged marriage to a commoner named Keaupuni, an expelled student from Lahainaluna Seminary and servant of her \"hānai\" (informally adopted) mother, Governess Kekauʻōnohi of Kauaʻi. Through Maheha, Keanolani was the granddaughter of High Chief Namaile and High Chiefess Kuini Liliha, who was the Royal Governor of Oʻahu from 1829 to 1831 and a political adversary of Queen Kaʻahumanu, the Kuhina Nui (premier) during the reigns of Kamehameha II and Kamehameha III. Maheha was a former student at the Chiefs' Children's School, later renamed the Royal School, a boarding school run by American missionaries Amos Starr Cooke and his wife Juliette Montague Cooke for students of Hawaiian royal descent. She was declared eligible for the throne of the Kingdom of Hawaii by King Kamehameha III. However, the thirteen-year-old Maheha had left the school at the insistence of her teachers, and was married off to Keaupuni to cover an unexpected pregnancy. Keaupuni was not the biological father of the baby, as was later attested by Mele, a witness in the 1855 divorce suit between him and Maheha.\n\nHer father was not officially identified. However, during and after her lifetime, speculation has focused on two princes of the Kamehameha dynasty: the seventeen-year-old Moses Kekūāiwa, who was the eldest boy at the Royal School, or his sixteen-year-old brother Lot Kapuāiwa, who later became King Kamehameha V. Evidence points toward Lot because Moses was expelled from the school two days before Maheha. He had also financially supported Maheha's husband Keaupuni. The entries from the period after September 1, 1845, were also torn out of Lot's school journal. She was raised by Princess Ruth Keʻelikōlani, her namesake and the half-sister of Kamehameha V. Kamehameha V reigned from 1863 to his death on December 11, 1872, without acknowledging his daughter or naming an heir to the throne, and was succeeded by his cousin Lunalilo. Keanolani would not have been eligible to succeed Kamehameha V since the Hawaiian constitution only permitted succession through legitimate lines. Similarly, Albert Kūnuiākea, the illegitimate son of Kamehameha III, had not been considered for the throne in 1854.\nWhile still married to her first husband Lihilihi, Keanolani became the mistress of William Hoapili Kaʻauwai, an Anglican chaplain and a high chief of Mauian descent who had divorced her half-aunt Kiliwehi in 1872. During this period, Hoapili and Keanolani were partisans of King Kalākaua, who had been elected as monarch in 1874 after the death of King Lunalilo. Hoapili was promised the position of Royal Chamberlain in the new ruling household. Queen Emma, the widow of Kamehameha IV and former patron of Hoapili and Kiliwehi, noted the illicit affair in her letters in 1873. Commenting on September 20, Emma wrote, \"Hoapili and Keano are at David’s [Kalākaua's] Hamohamo. It is said she is with child by him again.\" Later, on September 26, she noted, \"Keano was here last evening and appeared to be looking thick round the waist. She reports Kiliwehi recovering under Dr. Hutchison’s treatment...\" Keanolani had an illegitimate son which she named William Hoapili Kaʻauwai II, born on January 31, 1874. The elder Hoapili died on March 30, 1874.\n\nKeanolani became a friend of Queen Kapiʻolani, the wife of King Kalākaua. Few details exist on her life after this point until her death. In later life, she lived on the premises of Pualeilani, the Waikīkī residence of the queen. She continued living at Pualeilani when her nephews Princes David Kawānanakoa and Jonah Kūhiō Kalanianaʻole inherited the property. At this point, the Hawaiian monarchy had been overthrown in 1893 and the islands subsequently annexed by the United States in 1898. Despite this, her rank was acknowledged during the birthday reception of the former Queen Liliʻuokalani in 1901. The press initially described her as \"old and mentally infirm\" but also commented favorably on her noble bearing and knowledge of court etiquette. It was reported that she \"swept majestically along amongst the throng as if she were a reigning queen\" and \"greeted the Queen as one high chieftess [sic] to another.\"\n\nKeanolani died on June 30, 1902, while bathing at the beaches of Waikīkī near Pualeilani. She died on the beach after a swim in the ocean. The cause of death was reported as apoplexy in her obituaries due to the discoloration of her face, and the coroner ruled that it was due to \"fatty degeneration of the heart.\" She died intestate and her daughter Kahaina petitioned to be appointed administratrix of the estate, which was valued at $2000. After the autopsy, her remains laid in state at the bungalow of Pualeilani on July 1. The funeral service on the next day was conducted by Reverend Henry Hodges Parker, the pastor of Kawaiahaʻo Church. Her pallbearers included her son Hoapili Kaʻauwai II and her maternal uncle Palekaluhi. Her body was laid to rest at the Kawaiahaʻo Cemetery.\n\nKeanolani had a number of children. Her first husband was Lihilihi, from Kauaʻi, with whom she had a son named Samuela Kekuiapoiwa, who died on June 23, 1903.\n\nWhile still married to Lihilihi, Keanolani had an illegitimate son William Hoapili Kaʻauwai II, born on January 31, 1874, with her uncle by marriage William Hoapili Kaʻauwai.\n\nShe later divorced Lihilihi at the command of her aunt Keʻelikōlani. From her next marriage to Kamali, she had three children including Lot Kapuāiwa Kamehameha (1883/1884–1917), who died age 33, Keōpūolani, and Olga Keahikuni Kekauʻōnohi (1888/1889–1907), who died aged 18. Her obituary in 1902 reported, \"Several years ago her husband [Kamali] went away into the mountains and nothing more was heard of him.\"\n\nAnother daughter mentioned in the sources was Kahaina, who petitioned to be appointed administratrix of her mother's estate after her death.\n\n"}
{"id": "12785305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12785305", "title": "Life on Titan", "text": "Life on Titan\n\nWhether there is life on Titan, the largest moon of Saturn, is at present an open question and a topic of scientific assessment and research. Titan is far colder than Earth, and its surface lacks stable liquid water, factors which have led some scientists to consider life there unlikely. On the other hand, its thick atmosphere is chemically active and rich in carbon compounds. On the surface there are bodies of liquid methane and ethane, and it is likely that there is a layer of liquid water under its ice shell; some scientists speculate that these liquid mixes may provide pre-biotic chemistry for living cells different from those on Earth.\n\nIn June 2010, scientists analysing data from the \"Cassini–Huygens\" mission reported anomalies in the atmosphere near the surface which could be consistent with the presence of methane-producing organisms, but may alternatively be due to non-living chemical or meteorological processes. The \"Cassini–Huygens\" mission was not equipped to look directly for micro-organisms or to provide a thorough inventory of complex organic compounds.\n\nTitan's consideration as an environment for the study of prebiotic chemistry or potentially exotic life stems in large part due to the diversity of the organic chemistry that occurs in its atmosphere, driven by photochemical reactions in its outer layers. The following chemicals have been detected in Titan's upper atmosphere by \"Cassini\"'s mass spectrometer:\n\nAs mass spectrometry identifies the atomic mass of a compound but not its structure, additional research is required to identify the exact compound that has been detected. Where the compounds have been identified in the literature, their chemical formula has been replaced by their name above. The figures in Magee (2009) involve corrections for high pressure background. Other compounds believed to be indicated by the data and associated models include ammonia, polyynes, amines, ethylenimine, deuterium hydride, allene, 1,3 butadiene and any number of more complex chemicals in lower concentrations, as well as carbon dioxide and limited quantities of water vapour.\n\nDue to its distance from the Sun, Titan is much colder than Earth. Its surface temperature is about 90 K (−179 °C, or −290 °F). At these temperatures, water ice—if present—does not melt, evaporate or sublime, but remains solid. Because of the extreme cold and also because of lack of carbon dioxide (CO) in the atmosphere, scientists such as Jonathan Lunine have viewed Titan less as a likely habitat for extraterrestrial life, than as an experiment for examining hypotheses on the conditions that prevailed prior to the appearance of life on Earth. Even though the usual surface temperature on Titan is not compatible with liquid water, calculations by Lunine and others suggest that meteor strikes could create occasional \"impact oases\"—craters in which liquid water might persist for hundreds of years or longer, which would enable water-based organic chemistry.\n\nHowever, Lunine does not rule out life in an environment of liquid methane and ethane, and has written about what discovery of such a life form (even if very primitive) would imply about the prevalence of life in the universe.\n\nIn the 1970s, astronomers found unexpectedly high levels of infrared emissions from Titan. One possible explanation for this was the surface was warmer than expected, due to a greenhouse effect. Some estimates of the surface temperature even approached temperatures in the cooler regions of Earth. There was, however, another possible explanation for the infrared emissions: Titan's surface was very cold, but the upper atmosphere was heated due to absorption of ultraviolet light by molecules such as ethane, ethylene and acetylene.\n\nIn September 1979, Pioneer 11, the first space probe to conduct fly-by observations of Saturn and its moons, sent data showing Titan's surface to be extremely cold by Earth standards, and much below the temperatures generally associated with planetary habitability.\n\nTitan may become warmer in the future. Five to six billion years from now, as the Sun becomes a red giant, surface temperatures could rise to ~, high enough for stable oceans of a water–ammonia mixture to exist on its surface. As the Sun's ultraviolet output decreases, the haze in Titan's upper atmosphere will be depleted, lessening the anti-greenhouse effect on its surface and enabling the greenhouse effect created by atmospheric methane to play a far greater role. These conditions together could create an environment agreeable to exotic forms of life, and will persist for several hundred million years. This was sufficient time for simple life to evolve on Earth, although the presence of ammonia on Titan could cause the same chemical reactions to proceed more slowly.\n\nThe lack of liquid water on Titan's surface was cited by NASA astrobiologist Andrew Pohorille in 2009 as an argument against life there. Pohorille considers that water is important not only as the solvent used by \"the only life we know\" but also because its chemical properties are \"uniquely suited to promote self-organization of organic matter\". He has questioned whether prospects for finding life on Titan's surface are sufficient to justify the expense of a mission that would look for it.\n\nLaboratory simulations have led to the suggestion that enough organic material exists on Titan to start a chemical evolution analogous to what is thought to have started life on Earth. While the analogy assumes the presence of liquid water for longer periods than is currently observable, several hypotheses suggest that liquid water from an impact could be preserved under a frozen isolation layer. It has also been proposed that ammonia oceans could exist deep below the surface; one model suggests an ammonia–water solution as much as 200 km deep beneath a water ice crust, conditions that, \"while extreme by terrestrial standards, are such that life could indeed survive\". Heat transfer between the interior and upper layers would be critical in sustaining any sub-surface oceanic life. Detection of microbial life on Titan would depend on its biogenic effects. For example, the atmospheric methane and nitrogen could be examined for biogenic origin.\n\nData published in 2012 obtained from NASA's \"Cassini\" spacecraft, have strengthened evidence that Titan likely harbors a layer of liquid water under its ice shell.\n\nTitan is the only known natural satellite (moon) in the Solar System that has a fully developed atmosphere that consists of more than trace gases. Titan's atmosphere is thick, chemically active, and is known to be rich in organic compounds; this has led to speculation about whether chemical precursors of life may have been generated there. The atmosphere also contains hydrogen gas, which is cycling through the atmosphere and the surface environment, and which living things comparable to Earth methanogens could combine with some of the organic compounds (such as acetylene) to obtain energy.\n\nThe Miller–Urey experiment and several following experiments have shown that with an atmosphere similar to that of Titan and the addition of UV radiation, complex molecules and polymer substances like tholins can be generated. The reaction starts with dissociation of nitrogen and methane, forming hydrogen cyanide and acetylene. Further reactions have been studied extensively.\n\nIn October 2010, Sarah Hörst of the University of Arizona reported finding the five nucleotide bases—building blocks of DNA and RNA—among the many compounds produced when energy was applied to a combination of gases like those in Titan's atmosphere. Horst also found amino acids, the building blocks of protein. She said it was the first time nucleotide bases and amino acids had been found in such an experiment without liquid water being present.\n\nIn April 2013, NASA reported that complex organic chemicals could arise on Titan based on studies simulating the atmosphere of Titan. In June 2013, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were detected in the upper atmosphere of Titan.\n\nResearch has suggested that polyimine could readily function as a building block in Titan's conditions. Titan's atmosphere produces significant quantities of hydrogen cyanide, which readily polymerize into forms which can capture light energy in Titan's surface conditions. As of yet, the answer to what happens with Titan's cyanide is unknown; while it is rich in the upper atmosphere where it is created, it is depleted at the surface, suggesting that there is some sort of reaction consuming it.\n\nAlthough all living things on Earth (including methanogens) use liquid water as a solvent, it is conceivable that life on Titan might instead use a liquid hydrocarbon, such as methane or ethane. Water is a stronger solvent than hydrocarbons, however, water is more chemically reactive, and can break down large organic molecules through hydrolysis. A life-form whose solvent was a hydrocarbon would not face the risk of its biomolecules being destroyed in this way.\n\nTitan appears to have lakes of liquid ethane or liquid methane on its surface, as well as rivers and seas, which some scientific models suggest could support hypothetical non-water-based life.\nIt has been speculated that life could exist in the liquid methane and ethane that form rivers and lakes on Titan's surface, just as organisms on Earth live in water. Such hypothetical creatures would take in H in place of O, react it with acetylene instead of glucose, and produce methane instead of carbon dioxide. By comparison, some methanogens on Earth obtain energy by reacting hydrogen with carbon dioxide, producing methane and water.\n\nIn 2005, astrobiologists Chris McKay and Heather Smith predicted that if methanogenic life is consuming atmospheric hydrogen in sufficient volume, it will have a measurable effect on the mixing ratio in the troposphere of Titan. The effects predicted included a level of acetylene much lower than otherwise expected, as well as a reduction in the concentration of hydrogen itself.\n\nEvidence consistent with these predictions was reported in June 2010 by Darrell Strobel of Johns Hopkins University, who analysed measurements of hydrogen concentration in the upper and lower atmosphere. Strobel found that the hydrogen concentration in the upper atmosphere is so much larger than near the surface that the physics of diffusion leads to hydrogen flowing downwards at a rate of roughly 10 molecules per second. Near the surface the downward-flowing hydrogen apparently disappears. Another paper released the same month showed very low levels of acetylene on Titan's surface.\n\nChris McKay agreed with Strobel that presence of life, as suggested in McKay's 2005 article, is a possible explanation for the findings about hydrogen and acetylene, but also cautioned that other explanations are currently more likely: namely the possibility that the results are due to human error, to a meteorological process, or to the presence of some mineral catalyst enabling hydrogen and acetylene to react chemically. He noted that such a catalyst, one effective at −178 °C (95 K), is presently unknown and would in itself be a startling discovery, though less startling than discovery of an extraterrestrial life form.\n\nThe June 2010 findings gave rise to considerable media interest, including a report in the British newspaper, the Telegraph, which spoke of clues to the existence of \"primitive aliens\".\n\nA hypothetical cell membrane capable of functioning in liquid methane was modeled in February 2015. The proposed chemical base for these membranes is acrylonitrile, which has been detected on Titan. Called an \"azotosome\" ('nitrogen body'), formed from \"azote\", French for nitrogen, and \"soma\", Greek for body, it lacks the phosphorus and oxygen found in phospholipids on Earth but contains nitrogen. Despite the very different chemical structure and external environment, its properties are surprisingly similar, including autoformation of sheets, flexibility, stability, and other properties.\n\nAn analysis of \"Cassini\" data, completed in 2017, confirmed substantial amounts of acrylonitrile in Titan's atmosphere.\n\nIn order to assess the likelihood of finding any sort of life on various planets and moons, Dirk Schulze-Makuch and other scientists have developed a Planetary Habitability Index which takes into account factors including characteristics of the surface and atmosphere, availability of energy, solvents and organic compounds. Using this index, based on data available in late 2011, the model suggests that Titan has the highest current habitability rating of any known world, other than Earth.\n\nWhile the \"Cassini–Huygens\" mission was not equipped to provide evidence for biosignatures or complex organics, it showed an environment on Titan that is similar, in some ways, to ones theorized for the primordial Earth. Scientists think that the atmosphere of early Earth was similar in composition to the current atmosphere on Titan, with the important exception of a lack of water vapor on Titan. Many hypotheses have developed that attempt to bridge the step from chemical to biological evolution.\n\nTitan is presented as a test case for the relation between chemical reactivity and life, in a 2007 report on life's limiting conditions prepared by a committee of scientists under the United States National Research Council. The committee, chaired by John Baross, considered that \"if life is an intrinsic property of chemical reactivity, life should exist on Titan. Indeed, for life not to exist on Titan, we would have to argue that life is not an intrinsic property of the reactivity of carbon-containing molecules under conditions where they are stable...\"\n\nDavid Grinspoon, one of the scientists who in 2005 proposed that hypothetical organisms on Titan might use hydrogen and acetylene as an energy source, has mentioned the Gaia hypothesis in the context of discussion about Titan life. He suggests that, just as Earth's environment and its organisms have evolved together, the same thing is likely to have happened on other worlds with life on them. In Grinspoon's view, worlds that are \"geologically and meteorologically alive are much more likely to be biologically alive as well\".\n\nAn alternate explanation for life's hypothetical existence on Titan has been proposed: if life were to be found on Titan, it could have originated from Earth in a process called panspermia. It is theorized that large asteroid and cometary impacts on Earth's surface have caused hundreds of millions of fragments of microbe-laden rock to escape Earth's gravity. Calculations indicate that a number of these would encounter many of the bodies in the Solar System, including Titan. On the other hand, Jonathan Lunine has argued that any living things in Titan's cryogenic hydrocarbon lakes would need to be so different chemically from Earth life that it would not be possible for one to be the ancestor of the other. In Lunine's view, presence of organisms in Titan's lakes would mean a second, independent origin of life within the Solar System, implying that life has a high probability of emerging on habitable worlds throughout the cosmos.\n\nThe proposed Titan Mare Explorer mission, a Discovery-class lander that would splash down in a lake, \"would have the possibility of detecting life\", according to astronomer Chris Impey of the University of Arizona.\n\nThe proposed Dragonfly rotorcraft probe mission is intended to land on solid ground and relocate many times. Dragonfly is a New Frontiers-class proposal. An aim of the mission is to find out how far Titan’s “rich organics may have ascended up the ‘ladder of life’ “. Dragonfly would carry equipment to study the chemical composition of Titan's surface, and to sample the lower atmosphere for possible biomarkers, including hydrogen concentrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "46425611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46425611", "title": "List of disasters in Croatia by death toll", "text": "List of disasters in Croatia by death toll\n\nThe list of disasters in Croatia by death toll includes major disasters and accidents - excluding warfare and other intentional acts - that took place on Croatian soil and resulted in 10 or more fatalities:\n\n"}
{"id": "38646474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38646474", "title": "List of peace activists", "text": "List of peace activists\n\nThis list of peace activists includes people who have proactively advocated diplomatic, philosophical, and non-military resolution of major territorial or ideological disputes through nonviolent means and methods. Peace activists usually work with others in the overall anti-war and peace movements to focus the world's attention on what they perceive to be the irrationality of violent conflicts, decisions, and actions. They thus initiate and facilitate wide public dialogues intended to nonviolently alter long-standing societal agreements directly relating to, and held in place by, the various violent, habitual, and historically fearful thought-processes residing at the core of these conflicts, with the intention of peacefully ending the conflicts themselves.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4725695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725695", "title": "List of posthumous publications of Holocaust victims", "text": "List of posthumous publications of Holocaust victims\n\nThis is a list of works by Holocaust victims, published after they died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3202072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3202072", "title": "Man After Man", "text": "Man After Man\n\nMan after Man: An Anthropology of the Future is a 1990 speculative evolution book written by Scottish geologist Dougal Dixon and illustrated by Philip Hood. The book also features a foreword by Brian Aldiss. \"Man After Man\" explores a hypothetical future path of human evolution set from 200 years in the future to 5 million years in the future, with several future human species evolving through genetic engineering and natural means through the course of the book. \n\n\"Man after Man\" is Dixon's third work on speculative evolution, following \"After Man\" (1981), which explored the animals of a hypothetical world 50 million years in the future where humanity had gone extinct, and \"The New Dinosaurs\" (1988), which explored the animals of a world where the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event never occurred. Unlike the previous two books, which were written much like field guides and explored factual natural processes through fictional examples and worlds, the focus of \"Man after Man\" lies much on the individual perspectives of future human individuals of various species, mainly focused on how they perceive the changing climate, which they are specifically engineered to be adapted to, around themselves.\n\n200 years hence (the year 2190 A.D.) climate change has changed the face of the planet. With rising sea levels swallowing coastal cities and the environmental impact of overpopulation becoming apparent in a lack of resources, civilization is slowly collapsing, with a few selected humans escaping Earth to colonize space. To effectively construct great starships, governments have engineered new human species to aid in gathering resources underwater - the aquamorph (\"Homo aquaticus\"), with gills instead of lungs - and species to aid in construction in the vacuum of space - the vacuumorph (\"Homo caelestis\"). \n\n300 years hence, the anatomically modern humans that stayed behind on Earth have split into The Hitek (\"Homo sapiens machinadiumentum\"), almost totally dependent on cybernetic technology, augmenting and keeping their bodies alive way past their natural lifespans, and their handlers (still \"Homo sapiens sapiens\"). Though the older genetically engineered species in space and underwater have become extinct as a result of fulfilling their purpose and being sterile, a new species of fertile underwater human, the Aquatics (\"Piscanthropus submarinus\") are created as a final project by the genetic engineering facilities before they are shut down.\n\n500 years hence, the Hitek pursue to construct genetically altered humans to sustainably occupy niches in the ecologically recovering world. These new species include the plains-dweller (\"Homo campis fabricatus\") designed to live on open grasslands with the adaptations of a large herbivorous mammal, the forest-dweller (\"Homo silvis fabricatus\") created to live in rainforests, the tundra-dweller (\"Homo glacis fabricatus\") adapted to a polar climate and the temperate woodland-dweller (\"Homo virgultis fabricatus\"), superficially similar to the ancient australopithecines. Genetic material used to make these species is derived from the Andlas, anatomically modern humans who mostly live as farmers and fishermen (the word \"Andlas\" being speech corruption of \"Handlers\"). \n\n1000 years hence, some Hitek choose to abandon their \"mechanical cradles\" in favor of artificially created organs and \"biological cradles\", becoming a new species known as the Tics (\"Homo sapiens accessiomembrum\"). Both the Hitek and the Tics artificially manufacture food products to sustain themselves, relying on solar and marine energy harvesting to fuel their processing facilities. A magnetic reversal results in the failure of the navigation, communication and energy harvesting technologies that the Hitek and Tics rely on, causing their extinction. The magnetic reversal also impacts the farming, animal husbandry and hunting of the Andlas, leading to their (and by extension \"Homo sapiens\" as a whole) extinction. The disaster leaves the genetically engineered animal-like species as the sole living human descendants.\n\nAs a result of the extinction of \"Homo sapiens\", these humans can no longer be genetically tweaked and altered in labs and instead they begin to evolve through natural selection and other natural evolutionary processes, resulting in many new and diverse forms over the course of several millions of years. These new species range from the memory people (\"Homo mensproavadorum\") that through their genes can recall memories of previous generations, symbiotic humans (symbionts) consisting of a symbiont carrier (\"Baiulus moderatorum\") providing movement and protection against the cold and a hunter symbiont (\"Moderator baiuli\"), colonial and hive-building humans with a single reproductive parent (socials, \"Alvearanthropus desertus\"), parasitic humans (\"Nananthropus parasitus\") attaching themselves with sharp teeth and claws to the flesh of their hosts (\"Penarius pinguis\"), goblin-like fishing humans (fish-eaters, \"Piscator longidigitus\"), ant-eating humans (ant-men, \"Formifossor angustus\") and saber-toothed predatory humans (spiketooths, \"Acudens ferox\"). \n\nAfter five million years of uninterrupted evolution, the spacefaring descendants of those humans that escaped into space return to the planet. No longer recognizing the planet as their home world and bearing little resemblance to their original ancestors after five millions of years of genetic engineering, the spacefarers dramatically xenoform Earth and cover it in vast domed alien cities. The spacefarers wear pressurized suits and use cyborg-technology to fuse the bodies of the few human species they find useful on the planet with air tanks and respiration systems. Genetic engineering is used to modify the human descendants on Earth into giant building humans (\"engineered pack-animals\") and tiny humans working intricate machinery to aid in city construction and maintenance. Genetically modified species are also created for other purposes, such as antelope-like humans that serve as mounts and grotesque massive humans whose flesh is processed and consumed as food. As with the civilization of modern man and the Hitek before, this new era of civilization eventually falls apart, the spacefarers leaving Earth in ruins after consuming all the resources the planet had to offer. All terrestrial life on the planet perishes as the atmosphere is almost emptied of oxygen, leaving most of the human descendants extinct. Only a deep sea descendant of the aquatics, \"Piscanthropus profundus\", survives the extinction event and continues to evolve, expressing curiosity in what lies above the water.\n\nDixon's previous speculative evolution book projects, \"After Man\" (1981) and \"The New Dinosaurs\" (1988), used fictional examples to examplify real-life factual natural processes. \"After Man\" focused on the processes within evolution and projected them into a hypothetical future scenario set 50 million years after the extinction of mankind, where various hypothetical future animal species were used to explain the concepts within evolution. \"The New Dinosaurs\", meanwhile, had a focus on the science of zoogeography, using fictional species in a world where the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event never happened to explain the process.\n\nInitially, \"Man After Man\" was intended to be a project where fictional examples would be used to explain factual processes, like the previous books. The original idea involved mankind avoiding catastrophes such as overpopulation and mass starvation by inventing time travel and moving 50 million years into the future to re-establish civilization. This original \"Man After Man\" would have been set in the same world as \"After Man\" and would have focused on man-made catastrophes destroying the ecosystem established in the previous book. Dixon was reluctant to be involved in the final version of the project, which instead focused on changing climate conditions through the eyes of future human species engineered to adapt to them, and has in subsequent interviews referred to it as a \"disaster of a project\".\n\nThe original \"Man After Man\" concept, mankind destroying an established ecosystem, was later used by Dixon for another project where mankind colonized an alien planet with a complex and unique ecosystem. This project, published as the book \"Greenworld\" in 2010 (though so far only released in Japan) follows human colonization of the planet Greenworld over the course of a thousand years, showing how mankind affects its ecosystem.\n\n"}
{"id": "1191544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191544", "title": "Pacers–Pistons brawl", "text": "Pacers–Pistons brawl\n\nThe Pacers–Pistons brawl (colloquially known as the Malice at the Palace) was an altercation that occurred in a National Basketball Association (NBA) game between the Indiana Pacers and the Detroit Pistons on November 19, 2004, at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Auburn Hills, Michigan. The Associated Press (AP) called it \"the most infamous brawl in NBA history\", while the media has dubbed it the \"worst night in NBA history\". \n\nWith 45.9 seconds left in the game, Pistons center Ben Wallace went up for a layup, but was fouled by Pacers small forward Ron Artest. Furious for being fouled when the game had already been decided, Wallace pushed Artest. A fight broke out on the court between several players. After the fight was broken up, a fan threw a drink from the stands at Artest while he was lying on the scorer's table. Artest immediately charged after the fan, sparking a massive brawl between players and spectators that stretched from the seats down to the court and lasted several minutes.\n\nAfter the game, the NBA suspended nine players for a total of 146 games, which led to $11 million in salary being lost by the players. Five players were also charged with assault, and eventually sentenced to a year of probation and community service. Five fans also faced criminal charges and were banned from attending Pistons home games for life. The fight also led the NBA to increase security between players and fans, and to limit the sale of alcohol in games.\n\nThe meeting was the first between the two teams since the previous season's , which the Pistons won in six games en route to their first NBA title since the of the late 1980s and early 1990s. This caused the game to receive much hype from the media and fans. Having won two games in a row, the Pacers came into the game with a 6–2 record, while the Pistons, the defending champions, began their season 4–3. The game was televised nationally on ESPN, as well as on the Pacers' and Pistons' local broadcast affiliates, Fox Sports Midwest and WDIV (Detroit's NBC affiliate), respectively.\n\nThe game, like many previous meetings between the two teams, was dominated by defense. The Pacers got off to a quick start, opening up a 20-point lead with seven minutes to go before halftime. The Pistons managed to cut into the lead, trailing by 16 points by halftime. The Pistons opened the third quarter with a 9–2 run, but the Pacers ended it with a buzzer-beating three-pointer and a layup from Jamaal Tinsley heading into the fourth quarter. Richard Hamilton and Lindsey Hunter started the last quarter with consecutive three-point field goals, as the Pistons cut into the lead again. But Stephen Jackson's back-to-back field goals pushed the lead back to 93–79 with 3:52 remaining, essentially putting the Pistons away. Despite the lopsided score near the end of the game, most key players on both teams remained in the game.\n\nThe Pacers were led by the 24-point effort of Ron Artest, who scored 17 in the first quarter. Jermaine O'Neal notched a double-double with 20 points and 13 rebounds. Tinsley had 13 points, eight assists and a career-high eight steals. Hamilton led the Pistons with 20 points. Rasheed Wallace and Ben Wallace both recorded a double-double.\n\nThe brawl began with 45.9 seconds remaining in the game, when Indiana led 97–82. Pistons center Ben Wallace was fouled from behind by Pacers small forward Ron Artest, now known as Metta World Peace, who slapped him across the back of the head during a layup attempt. Wallace later said that Artest had warned him he would be hit. Wallace responded by shoving Artest in the face with both hands, causing players from both teams to quickly get in between them as they attempted to keep Wallace and Artest separated.\n\nPistons coach Larry Brown was not yet very concerned, because fights in the NBA rarely lasted for more than a few seconds. During the altercation, Artest lay down on the scorer's table to relax while putting on a headset to speak with Pacers radio broadcaster Mark Boyle. The microphone was not live. Boyle recalled that the broadcasting team knew Artest's personality and \"there was no way we were going to put an open mic in front of [him] in that situation\". Pacers president Donnie Walsh later stated that Artest was following advice he had received on how to calm down and avoid trouble in a volatile situation. After unsuccessfully attempting to break up the confrontation, referees prepared to eject various players before the game resumed. Sportscaster Mike Breen, calling the game for ESPN, believed Wallace would be ejected, while Bill Walton was of the opinion that Stephen Jackson should be ejected as well, for shouting at the Pistons players and aggravating the situation. However, Breen expressed concern that, if ejected, Wallace would have to walk past the Pacers bench, which could have triggered another incident.\n\nNinety seconds after Wallace shoved Artest, most of both teams' players and coaches were huddled at midcourt, attempting to calm down Wallace (Tayshaun Prince was the only player on either team to not leave the bench during the entire incident; others became automatically eligible for one-game suspensions). While Artest was lying on the table, Wallace threw a towel at him, causing Artest to briefly stand up before being held back by coaches. A spectator, John Green, then threw a plastic cup of Diet Coke at Artest, hitting him in the chest. Artest jumped off the table, ran into the stands, and grabbed a man, Michael Ryan, who he mistakenly believed was responsible. Boyle stood up to try and hold back Artest and was trampled in the effort, suffering five fractured vertebrae and a gouge on his head. Jackson followed Artest into the stands and punched a fan, William Paulson, in the face in retaliation for the man throwing another drink in Artest's face while he was being restrained by other spectators. Pacers players Eddie Gill, David Harrison, Reggie Miller (who was not dressed for the game due to injury), Fred Jones, and Jamaal Tinsley, the Pistons' Rasheed Wallace, and numerous personnel (including Pistons radio analyst and former player Rick Mahorn) also quickly entered the stands to retrieve Artest and Jackson, and to break up the fighting. Green punched Artest twice in the head from behind, as did Ben Wallace's brother, David, to Jones. More fans then began throwing drinks and other objects, while a number of fans spilled out onto the court.\n\nAs Artest walked out of the stands, he was confronted by two more fans, Alvin \"A.J.\" Shackleford and Charlie Haddad, who ran onto the court. Artest punched Shackleford in the face, causing Haddad to intervene by pushing away Artest, before both fans fell over. While Haddad was on the floor, Anthony Johnson struck him in the back of the head. As Haddad stood up, Jermaine O'Neal punched him in the jaw after a running start, while slipping in liquid and falling backwards, causing witnesses Scot Pollard, ESPN sideline reporter Jim Gray, and a Pistons executive, Tom Wilson, to briefly fear that O'Neal would kill Haddad. O'Neal later claimed that Haddad had been asked to leave the arena earlier that night, and was well-known to security because of claims that he wanted to fight an NBA player in order to receive compensation. William Wesley, Austin Croshere, and Miller pulled Artest away from the fans, but the scene became chaotic as outnumbered arena security struggled to reestablish order. Although Auburn Hills police had plans to handle many disorders, and had three officers in the arena, they were unprepared for players entering the stands.\n\nPacers coach Rick Carlisle said after the game, \"I felt like I was fighting for my life out there.\" One reporter who attempted to stop Tinsley from entering the stands recalled that the player \"went through me like I was butter\", and then NBA Commissioner David Stern, watching the game on TV, recalled that he said, \"Holy [\"mouths a swear word\"].\" (O'Neal later said, \"As bad as it looked on TV, it was at least 20 times worse in person.\") Pacers assistant coach Chuck Person compared the situation to being \"trapped in a gladiator-type scene where the fans were the lions and we were just trying to escape with our lives. That's how it felt. That there was no exit. That you had to fight your way out.\" Players' children and others in the audience cried from fear and shock. Derrick Coleman stood near Brown and Brown's ball boy son to protect them. The remaining seconds of the game were called off and the Pacers were awarded the 97–82 win. Fans booed the Indiana players as they were escorted from the court by officials and security, and continued to throw beverages and other objects (including a folding chair that nearly hit O'Neal) at them as they walked under the tunnel to the locker room. A replay on ESPN's broadcast showed Larry Brown attempting to talk to the fans over the loudspeaker of the arena in an attempt to stop the debacle, but Brown threw the microphone down in disgust after the microphone failed to work. No players from either team spoke to the media before leaving the arena. Eventually, police officers were able to swarm the arena, threatening to handcuff those who wouldn't leave. Nine spectators were injured, and two were taken to the hospital.\n\nIn the Pacers' locker room, O'Neal and Carlisle nearly got into a fight over the coaches trying to restrain the players when they were defending themselves. Artest asked Jackson whether he thought the players would get in trouble. Jackson responded, \"We'll be lucky if we have a freaking job.\" The conversation convinced an amazed Jackson and Pollard that Artest \"wasn't in his right mind, to ask that question\". Auburn Hills police entered the locker room to make arrests, but the team rushed Artest onto the bus and refused to take him off. The police decided to protect the Pacers as they left the arena and to later contact the team after reviewing game film. Outside of the arena, there were dozens of police cruisers lining the roads out of the parking lots.\n\nOn November 20, 2004, the NBA suspended Artest, Jackson, O'Neal, and Wallace indefinitely, saying that their actions were \"shocking, repulsive, and inexcusable\". The following day, the NBA announced that nine players would be suspended for a total of what eventually became 146 games–137 games for Pacers players and nine games for Pistons players. David Harrison was also seen fighting with fans, but the NBA stated that he wouldn't be suspended because \"the incident occurred as the players were attempting to leave the floor\".\n\nArtest was given the longest suspension; he was suspended for the remainder of the 2004–05 NBA season, a suspension that eventually totaled 86 games (73 regular season and 13 subsequent playoff games), the longest suspension for an on-court incident in NBA history. The players suspended also lost in excess of $11 million in salary due to the suspensions, with Artest alone losing almost $5 million.\n\nIn the week following the announcement of the suspensions, the players' union appealed the suspensions of Artest, Jackson, and O'Neal, saying they thought that commissioner Stern had \"exceeded his authority\". (Jackson felt that despite losing millions the players were fortunate, however, as Stern could have expelled them from the league.) A federal arbitrator upheld the full length of all suspensions, except that of O'Neal, which was reduced to 15 games. However, the NBA appealed the decision of the arbitrator to reduce O'Neal's suspension in federal court, and on December 24, a judge issued a temporary injunction allowing O'Neal to play, until a full hearing was held on the NBA's appeal.\n\nO'Neal played in two more games before the NBA's case was brought before the U.S. District Court in Brooklyn, New York on December 30. The NBA argued that under the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA), Stern had absolute authority to hand out suspensions and hear appeals for all on-court incidents. But the judge ruled that because O'Neal's behavior was an off-court incident, arbitration was allowed under the CBA, and thus the arbitrator was within his rights to reduce the suspension. Despite O'Neal's successful appeal, no further appeals were made to reduce Artest's and Jackson's suspensions.\n\nGreen was identified by county prosecutor David Gorcyca, who had been his neighbor. On November 30, Palace Sports and Entertainment, the owner of the Pistons, banned Green and Haddad from attending any events at Palace properties (including the Palace of Auburn Hills and the DTE Energy Music Theatre), revoked their season tickets and issued them refunds. Green had several previous criminal convictions, including counterfeiting, carrying a concealed weapon, felony assault, and three drunken driving convictions, and he was on court-ordered probation from a DUI conviction at the time of the brawl.\n\nOn December 8, 2004, five Indiana players and five fans (John Ackerman, John Green, Bryant Jackson, William Paulson, and David Wallace, Ben Wallace's brother) were charged for assault and battery. Player O'Neal (who also threw usher Melvin Kendziorski onto the scorer's table when attempting to enter the stands) and spectator Green, who Gorcyca said \"single-handedly incited\" the brawl by throwing a cup of liquid at Artest, were charged with two counts, and Artest, Harrison, Jackson, and Anthony Johnson were charged with one count each. Three fans, including David Wallace, received one count of the same charge; two fans (Haddad and Shackleford) who entered the court during the fight were charged with trespassing, and Bryant Jackson, who had prior criminal convictions, was charged with felony assault for throwing a chair. All of the fans involved were banned from attending Pistons games.\n\nOn March 29, 2005, Bryant Jackson pleaded no contest to a felony assault charge for throwing the chair, and on May 3, 2005, he was sentenced to two years' probation and ordered to pay $6,000 in restitution. David Wallace was also convicted, and sentenced to one year of probation and community service for punching Pacers guard Fred Jones from behind.\n\nAll five players who were charged pleaded no contest to the charges. On September 23, 2005, Artest, Jackson, and O'Neal were all sentenced to one year on probation, 60 hours of community service, a $250 fine, and anger management counseling. A week later, Harrison received the same sentence, and on October 7, 2005, Johnson, the last player to be charged, received a similar sentence (he was ordered to serve 100 hours of community service).\n\nOn March 27, 2006, a jury found Green guilty on one count of assault and battery for punching Artest in the stands, but acquitted him of an assault charge for throwing the cup. On May 1, 2006, Green was sentenced to 30 days in jail and two years' probation. On November 7, 2006, the Pistons issued a letter to Green informing him that he was banned for life from attending any Pistons home games under orders from the NBA (although the ban does not extend to other events at the Palace of Auburn Hills).\n\nSeveral NBA players and coaches said the brawl was the worst fight they had ever seen. Pacers fans began to refer to the team as \"the Thugs\". Pistons CEO Tom Wilson later stated that Artest's action took away physical barriers, such as tables and benches, that normally separate fans and players, and \"Indianapolis Star\" reporter Mark Montieth claimed that \"in a way, [Artest] provoked [the forthcoming assault] passively by lying down\". In the post-game commentary on ESPN's \"NBA Shootaround\", ESPN's studio analysts laid the blame on the Pistons' fans instead of on the players. John Saunders of ESPN referred to the fans as \"a bunch of punks\". Tim Legler said that \"the fans crossed the line\". Stephen A. Smith stated that \"They should be ashamed of themselves and some of them (the fans) should be arrested as far as I'm concerned\". Their commentary prompted ESPN vice president Mark Shapiro to place calls to host Saunders, as well as analysts Legler, Smith, and Greg Anthony. Shapiro felt their commentary was biased. The following Tuesday, Shapiro stated, \"I wish the studio hadn't laid the blame solely on the backs of the fans Friday night.\"\n\nA significant portion of media criticism was directed at the Pistons fans and 46% of the voters in the ESPN SportsNation poll believed that the fans were to blame for the incident. Other commentators said that Artest and the other players involved were to blame.\n\nThe Pacers and Pistons played for the first time after the brawl on December 25 at the Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis. The Pistons won 98–93 without any incidents. Neither Artest nor Jackson played due to their suspensions; O'Neal played in his first game back after the arbitrator reduced his suspension to 15 games. Some NBA teams immediately increased protection of players and arenas, the NFL reminded teams of existing security procedures, and on February 17, 2005, the NBA imposed new security guidelines for all NBA arenas. The new policies included a size limit of for alcohol purchases and a hard cap of two alcoholic beverage purchases for any individual person, as well as a ban of alcohol sales after the end of the third quarter. They also later ordered that each team put at least three security guards between the players and the fans.\n\nOn March 25, 2005, the Pacers played at The Palace for the first time since the brawl. The game was delayed 90 minutes after a series of bomb threats were aimed at the Pacers locker room, but the game eventually started after no explosives were found. Two of the key figures in the original incident missed the game, as Artest was still suspended and O'Neal had an injured shoulder. In the game, the Pacers stopped the Pistons' twelve-game winning streak with a 94–81 win.\nIn the playoffs, Detroit entered as the second seed of the Eastern Conference, and Indiana as the sixth. After the Pistons defeated the Philadelphia 76ers in five games, and the Pacers upset the third seed Boston Celtics in seven games, the two teams met in the second round. Although the Pacers went ahead two games to one, the Pistons clinched the series in six games with three straight wins. After eliminating Indiana, Detroit defeated the Miami Heat in the Eastern Conference Finals in seven games, then advanced to the NBA Finals, where they lost to the San Antonio Spurs in seven games.\n\nAfter serving his suspension of the rest of the , Ron Artest returned to the Pacers at the beginning of the . After playing 16 games he demanded to be traded, and the Pacers put him on the injured list. The Pacers' Walsh said that Artest's demands were \"the last straw\", and many Pacers players who had fought in the brawl to help their teammate felt betrayed. Jackson later said, \"I put my career on the line for him, going into the stands and fighting ... I lost $3 million [but] there was no 'thank you' or nothing.\" After more than a month of inactivity, Indiana traded Artest to the Sacramento Kings for Peja Stojaković. Artest faced Ben Wallace for the first time after the fight in November 2006, and finally made his return to Detroit in January 2007. During the Kings' 91–74 loss to the Pistons, Artest was booed constantly, but there were no unusual incidents. After a year's stop with the Houston Rockets in the 2008–09 season, Artest signed with the Los Angeles Lakers. After winning his first NBA championship in , Artest apologized to Jackson and other Pacers for being \"so young and egotistical\", stating \"sometimes I feel like a coward when I see those guys. I'm on the Lakers, but I had a chance to win with you guys. I feel almost like a coward.\" On September 16, 2011, Artest legally changed his name to Metta World Peace.\n\nDuring the , only one of the nine players who were suspended after the brawl was still with his original team: Ben Wallace, who signed with the Chicago Bulls as a free agent in 2006, later traded to the Cleveland Cavaliers, and rejoined the Pistons on August 7, 2009. Most of the players involved were traded to other teams, and since then, all of the players involved in the brawl have retired, with Artest being the last to do so in 2017.\nThe Pistons advanced to four straight Eastern Conference Finals after the brawl, and six straight overall, making them the first team since the Los Angeles Lakers in the 1980s to advance to six straight conference finals though they only won the championship once in that streak. However, after losing to the Pistons in the 2005 playoffs, the Pacers failed to finish above .500 until the and missed the playoffs for five straight seasons from 2006 through 2010. Many Pacers from the 2004–05 season believe that the brawl and its consequences ruined a potential championship team, with Artest as the cause. The Pacers have attempted to rebuild by obtaining \"character guys\" as players.\n\nOn November 19, 2009, John Green, one of the fans who helped begin the brawl, appeared on \"ESPN First Take\", where he talked about the incident and the changes he had made since then. Green recounted that he had an alcohol problem at the time and had since made an effort to deal with that. He also said that Ron Artest had apologized to him several months earlier, and wished to work together in some type of community service in Detroit.\n\n"}
{"id": "5982406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5982406", "title": "Per Knut Aaland", "text": "Per Knut Aaland\n\nPer Knut Aaland (born 5 September 1954) is a retired Norwegian cross-country skier.\n\nHe was born in Randabygda, lived in Hornindal and represented the sports club Hardbagg IL. He won a silver medal in the 4 x 10 km relay at the 1980 Olympic Games in Lake Placid, New York. He also finished sixth in the 50 km race at the 1976 Olympic Games and sixteenth in the 30 km race at the 1980 Olympic Games. His best career finish was second in three World Cup events.\n"}
{"id": "3737445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3737445", "title": "Quantum neural network", "text": "Quantum neural network\n\nQuantum neural networks (QNNs) are neural network models which are based on the principles of quantum mechanics. There are two different approaches to QNN research, one exploiting quantum information processing to improve existing neural network models (sometimes also vice versa), and the other one searching for potential quantum effects in the brain.\n\nIn the computational approach to quantum neural network research, scientists try to combine artificial neural network models (which are widely used in machine learning for the important task of pattern classification) with the advantages of quantum information in order to develop more efficient algorithms (for a review, see ). One important motivation for these investigations is the difficulty to train classical neural networks, especially in big data applications. The hope is that features of quantum computing such as quantum parallelism or the effects of interference and entanglement can be used as resources. Since the technological implementation of a quantum computer is still in a premature stage, such quantum neural network models are mostly theoretical proposals that await their full implementation in physical experiments.\n\nQuantum neural network research is still in its infancy, and a conglomeration of proposals and ideas of varying scope and mathematical rigor have been put forward. Most of them are based on the idea of replacing classical binary or McCulloch-Pitts neurons with a qubit (which can be called a “quron”), resulting in neural units that can be in a superposition of the state ‘firing’ and ‘resting’.\n\nThe first ideas on quantum neural computation were published independently in 1995 by Ron Chrisley and\nSubhash Kak. Kak discussed the similarity of the neural activation function with the quantum mechanical Eigenvalue equation, and later discussed the application of these ideas to the study of brain function and the limitations of this approach. Ajit Narayanan and Tammy Menneer proposed a photonic implementation of a quantum neural network model that is based on the many-universe theory and “collapses” into the desired model upon measurement. Since then, more and more articles have been published in journals of computer science as well as quantum physics in order to find a superior quantum neural network model.\n\nA lot of proposals attempt to find a quantum equivalent for the perceptron unit from which neural nets are constructed. A problem is that nonlinear activation functions do not immediately correspond to the mathematical structure of quantum theory, since a quantum evolution is described by linear operations and leads to probabilistic observation. Ideas to imitate the perceptron activation function with a quantum mechanical formalism reach from special measurements to postulating non-linear quantum operators (a mathematical framework that is disputed). A direct implementation of the activation function using the circuit-based model of quantum computation has recently been proposed by Schuld, Sinayskiy and Petruccione based on the quantum phase estimation algorithm.\n\nA substantial amount of interest has been given to a “quantum-inspired” model that uses ideas from quantum theory to implement a neural network based on fuzzy logic.\n\nSome contributions reverse the approach and try to exploit the insights from neural network research in order to obtain powerful applications for quantum computing, such as quantum algorithmic design supported by machine learning. An example is the work of Elizabeth Behrman and Jim Steck, who propose a quantum computing setup that consists of a number of qubits with tunable mutual interactions. Following the classical backpropagation rule, the strength of the interactions are learned from a training set of desired input-output relations, and the quantum network thus ‘learns’ an algorithm.\n\nThe quantum associative memory algorithm has been introduced by Dan Ventura and Tony Martinez in 1999. The authors do not attempt to translate the structure of artificial neural network models into quantum theory, but propose an algorithm for a circuit-based quantum computer that simulates associative memory. The memory states (in Hopfield neural networks saved in the weights of the neural connections) are written into a superposition, and a Grover-like quantum search algorithm retrieves the memory state closest to a given input. An advantage lies in the exponential storage capacity of memory states, however the question remains whether the model has significance regarding the initial purpose of Hopfield models as a demonstration of how simplified artificial neural networks can simulate features of the brain.\n\nRinkus proposes that distributed representation, specifically \"sparse distributed representation\" (SDR), provides a classical implementation of quantum computing. Specifically, the set of SDR codes stored in an SDR coding field will generally intersect with each other to varying degrees. In other work, Rinkus describes a fixed time learning (and inference) algorithm that preserves similarity in the input space into similarity (intersection size) in the SDR code space. Assuming that input similarity correlates with probability, this means that any single active SDR code is also a probability distribution over all stored inputs, with the probability of each input measured by the fraction of its SDR code that is active (i.e., the size of its intersection with the active SDR code). The learning/inference algorithm can also be viewed as a state update operator and because any single active SDR simultaneously represents both the probability of the single input, X, to which it was assigned during learning and the probabilities of all other stored inputs, the same physical process that updates the probability of X also updates all stored probabilities. By 'fixed time', it is meant that the number of computational steps comprising this process (the update algorithm) remains constant as the number of stored codes increases. This theory departs radically from the standard view of quantum computing and quantum physical theory more generally: rather than assuming that the states of the lowest level entities in the system, i.e., single binary neurons, exist in superposition, it assumes only that higher-level, i.e., composite entities, i.e., whole SDR codes (which are sets of binary neurons), exist in superposition.\n\nMost learning algorithms follow the classical model of training an artificial neural network to learn the input-output function of a given training set and use classical feedback loops to update parameters of the quantum system until they converge to an optimal configuration. Learning as a parameter optimisation problem has also been approached by adiabatic models of quantum computing. Recently there has been proposed a new post-learning strategy to allow the search for improved set of weights based on analogy with quantum effects occurring in nature. The technique, proposed in is based on the analogy of modeling a biological neuron as a semiconductor heterostructure consisting of one energetic barrier sandwiched between two energetically lower areas. The activation function of the neuron is therefore considered as a particle entering the heterostructure and interacting with the barrier. In this way auxiliary reinforcement to the classical learning process of neural networks is achieved with minimal additional computational costs.\n\nOne way of constructing a quantum neuron is to first generalise classical neurons (by padding of ancillary bits) to reversible permutation gates and then generalising them further to make unitary gates. Due to the no-cloning theorem in quantum mechanics, the copying of the output before sending it to several neurons in the next layer is non-trivial. This can be replaced with a general quantum unitary acting on the output plus a dummy bit in state . That has the classical copying gate (CNOT ) as a special case, and in that sense generalises the classical copying operation. It can be demonstrated that in this scheme, the quantum neural networks can: (i) compress quantum states onto a minimal number of qubits, creating a quantum autoencoder, and (ii) discover quantum communication protocols such as teleportation. The general recipe is theoretical and implementation-independent. The quantum neuron module can naturally be implemented photonically.\n\nAlthough many quantum neural network researchers explicitly limit their scope to a computational perspective, the field is closely connected to investigations of potential quantum effects in biological neural networks. Models of cognitive agents and memory based on quantum collectives have been proposed by Subhash Kak, but he also points to specific problems of limits on observation and control of these memories due to fundamental logical reasons. He has also proposed that a quantum language must be associated with biological neural networks.\n\nThe combination of quantum physics and neuroscience also nourishes a vivid debate beyond the borders of science, an illustrative example being journals such as NeuroQuantology or the healing method of Quantum Neurology. However, also in the scientific sphere theories of how the brain might harvest the behavior of particles on a quantum level are controversially debated. The fusion of biology and quantum physics recently gained momentum by the discovery of signs for efficient energy transport in photosynthesis due to quantum effects. However, there is no widely accepted evidence for the ‘quantum brain’ yet but anecdotal reports of \"Mag-Lag\" effects in MRI scanner patients could tentatively suggest that the quite delicate interactions in the brain may be quantum in nature, and thus can be influenced by very strong steady state magnetic fields coincidentally resembling the effects seen at high-G in fighter pilots. This hypothesis is now being tested further.\n\nA 2018 paper by Giorgi Dvali proposed that a black hole can be modeled as a particular type of QNN, and that black holes and brains may store memories in similar ways. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "13624329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13624329", "title": "Robbie Branscum", "text": "Robbie Branscum\n\nRobbie Nell Tilley Branscum (June 17, 1934 – May 24, 1997) was an American writer of children's books and young adult fiction. Her books were awarded with a Friends of American Writers Award (1977) and an Edgar Award (1983).\n\nRobbie was born on a farm near Big Flat, Arkansas. Her father died when she was only four years old and she grew up with her poor grandparents on another farm. Branscum dropped out from school after the seventh grade. She continued to read books and write poetry and songs and provided for her livelihood through work at dirt farms. At the age of 15 she married Dwane Branscum. She gave birth to a daughter and divorced at the age of 25.\n\nHer life took a major turn after the newsletter of her church, the Southern Baptist, printed an article she had written. Subsequently she decided to become an author. Her first book was \"Me and Jim Luke\" (1971). Branscum published 20 books in 20 years time, though not one each year. Several of her books were translated into Danish, Italian, Japanese, and Swedish. Branscum worked with literary agent Barthold Fles. She died from a heart attack in 1997 in her home in San Pablo, California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11979775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11979775", "title": "Rogvolod", "text": "Rogvolod\n\nRogvolod (; ) (c. 920 – 978) was first chronicled prince of Polatsk (945–978). In the Russian Primary Chronicle, he is known as Рогъволодъ, probably a slavicized version of the Old Norse name \"Ragnvald\". He came from overseas (i.e., from Scandinavia or Southern Baltic) and established himself at Polatsk in the mid-10th century. According to the Russian Primary Chronicle, Vladimir the Great sought an alliance with him in 980 by marrying his daughter Rogneda, but she insultingly refused, prompting Vladimir to attack Rogvolod and his sons and kill them, after which he forcibly took Rogneda as his wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "17587519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17587519", "title": "Room 8", "text": "Room 8\n\nRoom 8 (1947–1968) was a neighborhood cat who wandered into a classroom in 1952 at Elysian Heights Elementary School in Echo Park, California. He lived in the school during the school year and then disappeared for the summer, returning when classes started again. This pattern continued without interruption until the mid-1960s.\n\nNews cameras would arrive at the school at the beginning of the year waiting for the cat's return; he became famous and would receive up to 100 letters a day addressed to him at the school. Eventually, he was featured in a documentary called \"Big Cat, Little Cat\" and a children's book, \"A Cat Called Room 8\". \"Look\" magazine ran a three-page Room 8 feature by photographer Richard Hewett in November 1962, titled \"Room 8: The School Cat\". Leo Kottke wrote an instrumental called \"Room 8\" that was included in his 1971 album, \"Mudlark\".\n\nAs he got older, Room 8 was injured in a cat fight and suffered from feline pneumonia, so a family near the school volunteered to take him in. The school's janitor would find him at the end of the school day and carry him across the street.\n\nHis obituary in the \"Los Angeles Times\" rivaled that of major political figures, running three columns with a photograph. The cat was so famous that his obituary ran in papers as far away as Hartford, Connecticut. The students raised the funds for his gravestone. He is buried at the Los Angeles Pet Memorial Park in Calabasas, California.\n\nElysian Heights Elementary School has a wall mural on the outside of the school that features Room 8, and the teachers read his book to each new class. Room 8's paw prints are immortalized in cement on the sidewalk outside the school.\n\nIn 1972, a cat shelter was started in his name called The Room 8 Memorial Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38777019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38777019", "title": "SAI Global", "text": "SAI Global\n\nSAI Global is a risk management, standards compliance and information business. It was floated on the Australian Stock Exchange on 17 December 2003, with the initial shareholding 40% retained by parent organisation Standards Australia having been progressively sold down to zero. It was part of the ASX 200.\n\nSAI Global provides a commercial database of Australian standards, called \"SAI Global - Standards Online\", including drafts and auxiliary material, which is available in many Australian libraries.\n\nThe company also administers the Australian Business Excellence Awards which are the national quality awards of Australia.\n\nIt is now owned by Baring Private Equity Asia. \n"}
{"id": "6578500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6578500", "title": "SERENDIP", "text": "SERENDIP\n\nSERENDIP (Search for Extraterrestrial Radio Emissions from Nearby Developed Intelligent Populations) is a Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI) program originated by the Berkeley SETI Research Center at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nSERENDIP takes advantage of ongoing \"mainstream\" radio telescope observations as a \"piggy-back\" or \"commensal\" program. Rather than having its own observation program, SERENDIP analyzes deep space radio telescope data that it obtains while other astronomers are using the telescope.\n\nThe initial SERENDIP instrument was a 100-channel analog radio spectrometer covering 100 kHz of bandwidth. Subsequent instruments have been significantly more capable, with the number of channels doubling roughly every year. These instruments have been deployed at a large number of telescopes including the NRAO 90m telescope at Green Bank and the Arecibo 305m telescope.\n\nSERENDIP observations have been conducted at frequencies between 400 MHz and 5 GHz, with most observations near the so-called Cosmic Water Hole (1.42 GHz (21 cm) neutral hydrogen and 1.66 GHz hydroxyl transitions).\n\nThe most recently deployed SERENDIP spectrometer, SERENDIP V.v, was installed at the Arecibo Observatory in June 2009 and is currently operational. The digital back-end instrument is an FPGA-based 128 million-channel digital spectrometer covering 200 MHz of bandwidth. It takes data commensally with the seven-beam Arecibo L-band Feed Array (ALFA).\n\nThe next generation of SERENDIP experiments, SERENDIP VI was deployed in 2014 at both Arecibo and the Green Bank Telescope. SERENDIP VI will also look for fast radio bursts, in collaboration with scientists from University of Oxford and West Virginia University. \n\nThe program has found around 400 suspicious signals, but there is not enough data to prove that they belong to extraterrestrial intelligence. The most interesting signal «Wow!» was recorded in August 1977 but it was observed for only a very short time and disappeared before it had been identified. In September–October 2004 the media wrote about Radio source SHGb02+14a and its artificial origin, but scrutiny has not been able to confirm its connection with an extraterrestrial civilization. Currently no confirmed extraterrestrial signals have been found.\n\n"}
{"id": "4809800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4809800", "title": "Silent birth", "text": "Silent birth\n\nSilent birth, sometimes known as quiet birth, is a birthing procedure advised by L. Ron Hubbard and advocated by Scientologists in which \"everyone attending the birth should refrain from spoken words as much as possible\" and where \"... chatty doctors and nurses, shouts to 'PUSH, PUSH' and loud or laughing remarks to 'encourage' are avoided\". According to Scientology doctrine, this is because \"any words spoken are recorded in the reactive mind and can have an aberrative effect on the mother and the child.\" Hubbard believed that breaking the silence during childbirth with words could adversely affect the child later in life. Church members believe that noises, sounds and words while a child is being born can possibly cause trauma, which in turn causes the production of engrams, thus necessitating silent birth. Scientologists believe that it is also a way to assist a newborn in his or her development spiritually.\n\nThe concept of silent birth is a mandatory practice in Scientology doctrine. It is based upon the principle that expectant mothers must be provided the utmost care and respect and Hubbard’s words: \"Everyone must learn to say nothing within the expectant mother’s hearing using labor and delivery. Particularly during birth, absolute silence must be maintained and the more gentle the delivery, the better.” Silent birth is meant to make the transition to physical separation from the mother less painful for the child. The church does not rule against medication and caesarean section births. There have been no attempts to prove this medically or scientifically and the church does not claim silent birth as a medical approach but a religious and philosophical one.\n\nThe efficacy of silent birth has been questioned by a number of doctors and other health care professionals. Patricia Devine, MD, a maternal–fetal medicine specialist who directs the Labor and Delivery Unit at Columbia University Medical Center, said, \"There's absolutely no scientific evidence that taking [noise] away at the time of delivery will have any effect on outcome for the baby or mother.\"\n\nWhen asked whether there was any medical evidence that indicated that silent birth was beneficial, Damian Alagia, MD, associate clinical professor in the department of obstetrics and gynecology at George Washington University Medical Center, replied, \"It may be in the Scientology literature, but it's not in the scientific literature. In my understanding, L. Ron Hubbard never spent any time in medical school, studying pediatrics or studying neonatal development. To think that a baby born in silence is going to do any better than a baby born, say, listening to Hank Williams is just foolhardy.\"\n\nIn 2004, Scientologists Ray and Louise Spiering went to federal court to argue that Nebraska's mandatory blood test for infants would violate their right to practice the \"Silent Birth Method\" of their religion. According to the lawsuit \"every effort should be made to avoid subjecting the baby to loud sounds, talking, stress or pain during the first seven days of the baby's life ... Because a baby goes through so much pain during the birth process, Scientologists believe that a newborn baby should not be subjected to any further pain or significant sensory experiences.\"\n\nThe \"silent birth\" became an object of media interest when it was known that outspoken Scientologist actor Tom Cruise, and wife Katie Holmes who converted to Scientology from Roman Catholicism, were expecting a child. Reports that the couple would follow the practice of silent birth were denied, until photos were taken of large placards being delivered to the couple's mansion bearing instructions for the silent birth, such as \"Be silent and make all physical movements slow and understandable.\"\n\nIt was often reported in the media during this time that speaking to the infant during the first week of its life was barred by Scientology doctrine as well. A Church spokesperson termed this \"a total fabrication.\" The Church of Scientology International writes, \"L. Ron Hubbard never wrote that parents should not speak to their child for seven days following birth.\" The same website also says \"[t]he idea of silent birth is based on L. Ron Hubbard’s research into the mind and spirit. He found that words spoken during moments of pain and unconsciousness can have adverse effects on an individual later in life.\" The website also says \"[m]others naturally want to give their baby the best possible start in life and thus keep the birth as quiet as possible.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2696633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2696633", "title": "The Doe Network", "text": "The Doe Network\n\nThe Doe Network is a non-profit organization of volunteers who work with law enforcement to connect missing persons cases with John/Jane Doe cases.\n\nThe site features cold case disappearances and unidentified decedents, in hopes to create awareness for such cases and to generate potential leads. Those documented have occurred during or before the year 2013. Case files are created for both unidentified and missing persons, detailing physical estimations of the subjects as well as circumstances of the disappearance, sightings and recovery of the unidentified subjects. Images of the missing and unidentified, including forensic facial reconstructions, tattoos, and age progressions are also available for cases. Cases of murder conviction without a body are also listed, although their cases have been solved, as the victim could possibly remain unidentified. The site provides an online form for visitors to submit potential matches between missing and unidentified persons, which are subsequently reviewed by volunteers prior to submission to authorities. After the form is completed by a reader, 16 members of the Doe Network's administrative panel evaluate the importance of the possible match and whether or not to submit it to investigators handling the case. The Web site also works alongside other databases, such as the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System and the NCIC. The Doe Network features worldwide cases and is also presented in various languages.\n\nSince the launch of the Doe Network, over 600 people have volunteered. Members are selected after applications are submitted and background information is confirmed. A core team organizes information that is published on the Web site, compiling approved information received from other members.\n\nThe Doe Network was created in 1999 by Jennifer Marra of Michigan as a Web site database for international long-term missing persons and unidentified victims. Marra turned control of the site over to Helene Wahlstrom of Sweden in 2001. Wahlstrom then joined forces with the Cold Cases Yahoo! group headed by Todd Matthews of Tennessee, thereby creating the volunteer group aimed at finding potential matches between missing persons and unidentified victims. Matthews had assisted in the identification of Barbara Ann Hackmann Taylor, previously nicknamed as \"Tent Girl,\" in 1998, which had inspired him to create a website to help solve similar cases. Matthews also co-founded a different organization, known as Project EDAN (Everyone Deserves a Name), which consists of a group of forensic artists.\n\nThe Doe Network now has members worldwide, including volunteers from all 50 US states. \n\nSince the start of the Web site, many have acknowledged the importance of such an organization. The Doe Network lists 82 successful identity resolutions assisted by its volunteers; 36 occurred within the first five years of the group's formation. Resolved cases include Deanna Criswell, found in 1987 and identified in 2015, Samantha Bonnell, and Dorothy Gay Howard, found in 1954 and identified in 2009. Criswell was identified after family members came upon the case file of the unidentified teen and later submitted a possible connection between the two. Samantha Bonnell's mother recognized a reconstruction created by the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children on the file of her daughter. Various other cases have been solved in a similar way, often when loved ones or those investigating the disappearance of a missing individual discover a case file on the website that details a case similar to their missing companion or family member. Several other cases have been solved through the potential match submissions.\n\nThe Doe Network has received criticism, as many officials note that they received significant amounts of information \"that can be annoying,\" as Matthews stated in an interview with National Public Radio in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50482241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50482241", "title": "Timeline of senescence research", "text": "Timeline of senescence research\n\nThis page is a timeline of senescence research, including major theories, breakthroughs and organizations. \"Senescence\" here refers to \"Ageing\" rather than the phenomena of cellular senescence, which is a change in cell state associated with ageing, cancer prevention, wound healing, regeneration and embryonic/placenta development.\n\n"}
{"id": "22578538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22578538", "title": "Well-being", "text": "Well-being\n\nWell-being, wellbeing, or wellness is the condition of an individual or group. A high level of well-being means that in some sense the individual's or group's condition is positive.\n\nAccording to Naci and Ioannidis,\n\n\"The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" (\"SEP\") entry for \"well-being\" identifies ways in which terms related to happiness differ. According to the \"SEP\", the terms \"happy\", \"wellness\", \"satisfaction\", \"pleasure\" or \"well-being\" can refer to a series of possible states:\n\nThe affective and life-satisfaction views of happiness differ meaningfully when it comes to certain topics such as the relationship between income and happiness:\n\n\"Surveying large numbers of Americans in one case, and what is claimed to be the first globally representative sample of humanity in the other, these studies found that income does indeed correlate substantially (.44 in the global sample), at all levels, with life satisfaction—strictly speaking, a “life evaluation” measure that asks respondents to rate their lives without saying whether they are satisfied. Yet the correlation of household income with the affect measures is far weaker: globally, .17 for positive affect, –.09 for negative affect; and in the United States, essentially zero above $75,000 (though quite strong at low income levels). If the results hold up, the upshot appears to be that income is pretty strongly related to life satisfaction, but weakly related to emotional well-being, at least above a certain threshold.\"\n\nThere are weaknesses to the self-report method of elicitation for happiness: The lay conception of emotions (affect) is that they are discrete. It is typical, in everyday language, just as in research, to use research protocols that accept answers such as: \"I am happy or I am sad, but not both simultaneously\", or \"I am 7 on a 1-10 scale of happiness (likert)\".\n\nThree subdisciplines in psychology are critical for the study of psychological well-being:\n\nThere are two approaches typically taken to understand psychological well-being:\n\nAccording to Guttman and Levy (1982) well-being is \"...a special case of attitude\". This approach serves two purposes in the study of well-being: \"developing and testing a [systematic] theory for the structure of [interrelationships] among varieties of well-being, and integration of well-being theory with the ongoing cumulative theory development in the fields of attitude of related research\".\n\nMany different models have developed.\n\nDiener's tripartite model of subjective well-being is one of the most comprehensive models of well-being in psychology. It was synthesized by Diener in 1984, positing \"three distinct but often related components of wellbeing: frequent positive affect, infrequent negative affect, and cognitive evaluations such as life satisfaction.\"\n\nCognitive, affective and contextual factors contribute to subjective well-being. According to Diener and Suh, subjective well-being is \"...based on the idea that how each person thinks and feels about his or her life is important.\"\n\nCarol Ryff's multidimensional model of psychological well-being postlated six factors which are key for well-being:\n\nAccording to Corey Keyes, who collaborated with Carol Ryff, mental well-being has three components, namely emotional or subjective well-being (also called \"hedonic\" well-being), psychological well-being, and social well-being (together also called \"eudaimonic\" well-being). Emotional well-being concerns subjective aspects of well-being, in concreto, \"feeling\" well, whereas psychological and social well-being concerns skills, abilities, and psychological and social functioning.\n\nKeyes model of mental well-being has received extensive empirical support across cultures.\n\nWell-being is a central concept in positive psychology. Positive psychology is concerned with eudaimonia, \"the good life\", reflection about what holds the greatest value in life – the factors that contribute the most to a well-lived and fulfilling life. While not attempting a strict definition of the good life, positive psychologists agree that one must live a happy, engaged, and meaningful life in order to experience \"the good life\". Martin Seligman referred to \"the good life\" as \"using your signature strengths every day to produce authentic happiness and abundant gratification\".\n\nIn \"Flourish\" (2011) Seligman argued that \"meaningful life\" can be considered as 3 different categories. The resulting acronym is PERMA: Positive Emotions, Engagement, Relationships, Meaning and purpose, and Accomplishments. It is a mnemonic for the five elements of Martin Seligman's well-being theory:\n\nThe UK ONS defines wellbeing \"\"as having 10 broad dimensions which have been shown to matter most to people in the UK as identified through a national debate. The dimensions are: \n\"Personal wellbeing is a particularly important dimension which we define as how satisfied we are with our lives, our sense that what we do in life is worthwhile, our day to day emotional experiences (happiness and anxiety) and our wider mental wellbeing.\"\n\nThomas Nagel has said that \"There are elements [of living] which, if added to one's experience, make life better; there are other elements which if added to one's experience, make life worse. But what remains when these are set aside is not merely neutral: it is emphatically positive.\"\n\nResearch on positive psychology, well-being, eudaimonia and happiness, and the theories of Diener, Ryff, Keyes and Seligmann covers a broad range of levels and topics, including \"the biological, personal, relational, institutional, cultural, and global dimensions of life.\" The World Happiness Report series provide annual updates on the global status of subjective well-being. A global study using data from 166 nations, provided a country ranking of psycho-social well-being. The latter study showed that subjective well-being and psycho-social well-being (i.e. eudaimonia) measures capture distinct constructs and are both needed for a comprehensive understanding of mental well-being.\n\n\"Example:\" A study was conducted to examine job resources, work engagement and Finnish dairy farmers’ preferences concerning methods to enhance overall well-being while working on farms. The results indicate that the family, working with cattle, healthy farm animals, a reasonable workload, and a sustainable farm economy have the capacity to create positive impacts on well-being among dairy farmers. Well-being on farms is a part of sustainable food production.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41448849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41448849", "title": "Young Allsopp", "text": "Young Allsopp\n\nWilliam Jonathan \"Jonty\" Alsop (1901 – 10 November 1964) was a professional boxer from Wales who fought under the name Young Allsopp. Based in his home village of Trealaw in the Rhondda Valley, Allsopp was notable for becoming the Welsh bantamweight champion in 1921.\n\nAlsop was born in the village of Trealaw in the industrial coal mining region of the Rhondda Valley to English parents who had moved to the area from Bristol. A coal miner by profession, Alsop took to boxing as a youth and was fighting in recognized bouts while still a teenager. Early promotions gave him the name Young Allsopp (sic), and he fought under that nickname for the rest of his career.\n\nFrom the beginnings of his career, Allsopp would travel into England to face opponents and was a regular fighter at the Liverpool Stadium. By the early 1920s a system of weight titles were devised for the Wales region, and Allsopp was selected as one of the Welsh fighters to challenge, through a series of eliminators, for the bantamweight title. On his way to the final, he beat Rhondda opponent Harold Jones, Blaenavon's Silas Bunch and Arthur Bishop from Caerphilly. This led to a showdown with Billy Davies from Cardiff, held at the Cardiff Empire on 22 October 1921. The fight was intended to be the main event at a charity tournament held to raise funds for the Mametz Ward at the Cardiff Royal Infirmary, but the bout was overshadowed by a mock fight between Jimmy Wilde and popular music hall comedian George Robey. The fight between Allsopp and Davies was intended for 20 rounds, and the referee, Jim Driscoll, was called upon during the fight to admonish Davies in the early rounds. Davies was cut through the illegal use of the head, but also suffered from the superior boxing skills displayed by Allsopp. In the 11th round Davies charged head-down into an attack and suffered a gash to his forehead. He was behind on points, and his seconds threw in the towel, leaving Allsopp the Welsh bantamweight champion.\n\nAllsopp only defended his title once, against Albert Colcombe, a fighter originally from Tylorstown in Wales, but then based in Yorkshire. The fight was held at the Llwynypia Baths to a packed house on 20 May 1922. Although set for twenty rounds, the fight only reached the tenth, after Allsopp was stopped through a badly cut eye. Allsopp fought on for a few more years, before a fall from a roof ended both his fighting and mining careers. He sold his Welsh title belt to fund a business as a confectioner, with shops in the Rhondda and Rhoose. He died from a heart attack in 1964 at the age of 63.\n"}
