{"id": "41115533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41115533", "title": "ACQUIN", "text": "ACQUIN\n\nThe Accrediterungs-, Certifizierungs- und Qualitätssicherungs-Institut (Accreditation, Certification and Quality Assurance Institute) (ACQUIN) is a school accreditation system founded in the year 2001 as a consequence of the European Bologna process and the upcoming need for assuring the quality of newly introduced undergraduate and postgraduate degrees in Germany. ACQUIN is a member-based, non-profit organisation located in Bayreuth, Bavaria, Germany. The Institute operates under the licence of the German Accreditation Council and is thus empowered to award its quality seal to study programs which have successfully undergone accreditation. ACQUIN was reaccredited by the German Accreditation Council until 30 September 2011. ACQUIN operates internationally in several key regions, including the German-speaking European region, Middle and Eastern Europe and North Africa - Near and Middle East. Nowadays ACQUIN is an association of over 100 higher education institutions from Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Hungary and the United States of America. ACQUIN operates as a non-profit organisation which is financed through membership fees as well as through Higher Education Institutions for accreditation services provided.\n\nThe agency is member in various international networks: The European Network for Quality Assurance (ENQA), the European University Association (EUA), the Central Eastern European Network for Quality Assurance (CEEN), the International Network for Quality Assurance Agencies in Higher Education (INQAAHE) and the Arab Network for Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ARQAANE).\n\nIn May 2000, the Bavaria Rectors’ Conference passed a resolution to establish an accreditation agency that performs accreditation for all types of higher education institutions taking into account all types of programs and disciplines. As a result, the Accreditation, Certification and Quality assurance Institute (ACQUIN) was founded on January 26, 2001 and accredited by the German Accreditation Council on March 22, 2001. The German Accreditation Council reaccredited ACQUIN in 2006 until 30 September 2011.\n\nACQUIN’s aim is to support the maintenance and enhancement of quality standards for teaching and learning in higher education and to contribute to the internationalization of German higher education by performing accreditation for all different types of higher education institutions and taking into account all different types of programs and subjects. A main objective is to provide guidance and information for students, employers and higher education institutions and to contribute to more transparency in the market of study programs. Within the accreditation process, the institutional membership of the applicant does not have any decisive influence, neither on the content of the evaluation procedure nor on the accreditation decision-making process.\n\nThe main characteristics of ACQUIN are independence, objectivity and high quality. Academic freedom and academic autonomy are respected: Higher education institutions may regulate their own quality and standards, but at the same time they must guarantee transparency of process and public accountability in discharging this self-regulation.\n\nDegree programs are evaluated by reason of their characteristic purpose as well as on the basis of the quality criteria developed and applied by the agency, regardless of their institutional membership. The make-up of the decision-making bodies does not allow biased persons to intervene in the current procedure. Not only professors and higher education experts, but also students and independent representatives of professional practice participate actively in the accreditation procedures, while members of the state can observe the activities of the agency.\n\nCurrently, ACQUIN has accredited more than 100 higher education institutions from countries including Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, Lebanon and the United States, among them:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15474522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15474522", "title": "Albert van Raalte", "text": "Albert van Raalte\n\nAlbert Bernhard van Raalte (21 May 1890, Amsterdam – 23 November 1952) was a Dutch conductor, the son of Izak van Raalte and Carolina van Engel. He began music studies at age 7, from such teachers as Herman Meerlo and Arnold Drilsma (both violin), and J.W. Kersbergen (piano).\n\nFrom 1906 to 1909, van Raalte studied at the Hochschule für Musik Köln, where his teachers included Fritz Steinbach (conducting), Bram Eldering (violin), Lazzaro Uzielli (piano), and Waldemar von Baussern (harmony and counterpoint). He later pursued further studies in music theory with Max Reger and in conducting with Bruno Walter and Camille Saint-Saëns. His conducting career began with a 1909 concert at the \"Musikalische Gesellschaft\" in Cologne. In 1911-1912, he was a répétiteur at La Monnaie (Brussels). He worked as an opera conductor in Germany and the Netherlands from 1912 until the outbreak of World War II.\n\nFrom 1928 to 1940, van Raalte conducted concerts on Dutch radio (AVRO), until his dismissal during World War II. After the war, from 1945 to 1949, he served as the first principal conductor of the Radio Filharmonisch Orkest. He also undertook guest conducting opportunities, such as with the Scottish [National] Orchestra.\n\nVan Raalte married Helena Wilhelmina Sophia Horneman on 23 July 1918. The couple had one son.\n\n"}
{"id": "20603277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20603277", "title": "Allied Academies", "text": "Allied Academies\n\nAllied Academies is a reportedly-fraudulent corporation chartered under the laws of North Carolina. It presents itself as an association of scholars, with supporting and encouraging research and the sharing and exchange of knowledge as its stated aims. The organization consists of 14 affiliate academies, which provide awards to academics and publish academic journals both online and in hard copy for members. Since 2015 the organization has been listed on Jeffrey Beall's list of \"potential, possible, or probable predatory scholarly open-access publishers\". It is in a partnership with OMICS Publishing Group which uses its website and logo.\n"}
{"id": "22910426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22910426", "title": "Association for Logic, Language and Information", "text": "Association for Logic, Language and Information\n\nThe Association for Logic, Language and Information (FoLLI) is an international, especially European, learned society administered from Nancy-Université in France. It was founded in 1991 \"to advance the practicing of research and education on the interfaces between Logic, Linguistics, Computer Science and Cognitive Science and related disciplines.\"\nIt publishes the academic journal \"Journal of Logic, Language and Information\" (JoLLI), holds an annual academic conference called the European Summer School in Logic, Language and Information (ESSLLI) and awards the E. W. Beth Dissertation Prize to outstanding dissertations in the fields of Logic, Language, and Information. \"Very broadly, FoLLI's basic natural focus is on the phenomenon of information.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44525813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44525813", "title": "BIS conference", "text": "BIS conference\n\nBIS conference (International Conference on Business Information Systems) - is an annual conference organized by the Department of Information Systems, Poznań University of Economics.\n\nFirst BIS conference was organized in 1997 in Poznań. The BIS conference is a well-respected event joining international researchers and practitioners to discuss the wide range of the development, implementation, application and improvement of business applications and systems. General Chair of the conference is Prof. Witold Abramowicz.\n"}
{"id": "8085485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8085485", "title": "Belgian American Educational Foundation", "text": "Belgian American Educational Foundation\n\nThe Belgian American Educational Foundation (BAEF) is an independent philanthropy. It supports the exchange of university students, scientists and scholars between the United States and Belgium. The foundation fosters the higher education of deserving Belgians and Americans through its exchange-fellowship program. Since 1977, Dr. Emile Boulpaep is the president of the BAEF.\n\nDuring World War I, from October 1914, Herbert Hoover organized the Committee for Relief in Belgium (USA) and the \"Commission for Relief in Belgium\" (Belgium). After the war, the University Foundation, and on 9 January 1920, the B.A.E.F., were founded with the budget remaining in the hands of the Commission after five years of relief work. The \"Belgian American Educational Foundation\" became the heir of the Commission for Relief in Belgium.\n\nAfter World War I, the BAEF invested in land and buildings for the Universite Libre de Bruxelles (Solbosch campus) and also for rebuilding the library of the Catholic University of Leuven. In 1925, the BAEF founded the \"Hoover Foundation for the Development of the University of Brussels\" and the \"Hoover Foundation for the Development of the University of Leuven\". The BAEF started providing scholarships for students study abroad.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18317782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18317782", "title": "Carolyn See", "text": "Carolyn See\n\nCarolyn See (born Caroline Laws; January 13, 1934 – July 13, 2016) was a professor emerita of English at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the author of ten books, including the memoir, \"Dreaming: Hard Luck and Good Times in America\", an advice book on writing, \"Making a Literary Life\", and the novels \"There Will Never Be Another You, Golden Days,\" and \"The Handyman.\" See was also a book critic for the Washington Post for 27 years.\n\nSee was born in Pasadena, California to Kate Louise Sullivan Daly and George Laws in 1934 . See's father was a would-be novelist and sometimes journalist who told her to read the Horatio Hornblower books when she was eight so that she wouldn't later get stuck in the nautical details of \"Moby Dick\". She spent her early years in Eagle Rock, California. Her father left when she was eleven and she was raised by her mother whom See described as a mean alcoholic. Carolyn had a younger sister Maureen who was 15 years younger who struggled with addiction and eventually died from the use of heroin.\n\nAt the age of 16, Carolyn went to live with her father and his new wife in Los Angeles.\n\nSee earned her associate degree from Los Angeles City College. During her second year at City college she married Richard See and moved with him to Newfoundland where he was mustered for the Korean War. When they returned to L.A., See attended and earned her M.A. from California State University, Los Angeles and gave birth to her first daughter, Lisa See. See won the Samuel Goldwyn Creative Writing Contest in 1958 for her unpublished novel \"The Waiting Game\" and used the two hundred and fifty dollar prize money to pay for her divorce from Richard See. After her divorce, See married Tom Sturak and had her second daughter Clara Sturak. See later finished her doctorate at UCLA and her dissertation was on the Hollywood novel.\n\nIn the late 1960s See began writing articles for the Los Angeles Times and celebrity profiles for TV Guide. At this time See worked out her writing habit—one thousand words a day on white unlined paper in felt pens. While writing non-fiction articles and reviews, See was approached by Little, Brown editor Harry Sions who encouraged her to write a novel which became \"The Rest is Done with Mirrors\".\n\nSee's first teaching job was as a professor of English at Loyola Marymount University from 1970 until 1985. This was followed by a period as a visiting professor of English at her alma mater, UCLA, from 1986 to 1989, where she would later become an adjunct professor. See also earned money by testifying for the defense in pornography trials, leading to the successful book \"Blue Money: Pornography and the Pornographers\".\n\nBesides writing, See also contributed to the literary world through reviews, and sat on review boards for awards. See was a frequent book reviewer for \"The Washington Post\" having previously been a book reviewer for the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"Newsday\". See retired from the Washington Post in 2014 after 27 years. See has been on the boards of the National Book Critics Circle and PENWest International.\n\nShe lived in Pacific Palisades, California.\n\nSee also wrote books under the pen name Monica Highland, a name she shared with two others, her daughter Lisa See and her longtime companion, John Espey, who died in 2000.\n\nSee was known for writing novels set in Los Angeles and co-edited books that revolved around the city, including a book of short stories, \"LA Shorts\", and the pictorial books \"Santa Monica Bay: Paradise by the Sea : A Pictorial History of Santa Monica, Venice, Marina Del Rey, Ocean Park, Pacific Palisades, Topanga & Malibu\", and \"The California Pop-Up Book\", which celebrates the city's unique architecture.\n\nSee described her ideal day is to \"write two hours, work in the yard for two hours, and write ten pieces of mail, that's all I want to do. It never works out that--or not often.\"\n\nCarolyn See was married twice—first to Richard See and then Tom Sturak. She was then with long-time companion John Espey from 1974 until his death in 2000. See had two daughters, novelist Lisa See and Clara Sturak.\n\nSee was a feminist, and said of Betty Friedan's \"The Feminine Mystique\", \"I was one of the persons whose lives that book changed.\" After the publication of Rhine Maidens See announced that she wasn't interested in writing women's novel anymore. See was vocal that Blue Money was the only book of hers that men ever read.\n\n\n\n\nSee won both the Guggenheim Fellowship and the Getty Center fellowship. She was also awarded the Robert Kirsch Award by the Los Angeles Times in 1993, an honor bestowed upon an author who writes about or lives in the West.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "14415051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14415051", "title": "Christine Brewer", "text": "Christine Brewer\n\nSoprano Christine Brewer (born October 26, 1955) is an American opera singer.\n\nBrewer grew up in the Mississippi River town of Grand Tower, Illinois. She attended McKendree University in Lebanon, Illinois and concentrated on music education. She was a music teacher for several years before embarking on a professional music performing career.\n\nShe began her career in St. Louis, Missouri with the Saint Louis Symphony Chorus. She auditioned in 1981 for the chorus of Opera Theatre of Saint Louis (OTSL), in the start of her career in opera. Her first OTSL work was in the chorus of \"The Beggars Opera\" in 1982. Her first major role with OTSL was as Ellen Orford in \"Peter Grimes\" in 1990.\n\nIn 1989, she participated in a masterclass with Birgit Nilsson, and was one of the 10 winners of the National Council auditions sponsored by the Metropolitan Opera. While her daughter Elisabeth was in school during the academic year, Brewer deliberately limited her work in staged opera productions. She returned more actively to the opera stage after her daughter's high school graduation. She began to accept roles including a debut in the title role of Richard Strauss' Ariadne auf Naxos at the Metropolitan Opera in 2003, which has become a signature role for Brewer.\n\nBrewer is most famous for her interpretations of roles by Wagner, Strauss and Britten including Isolde, Ariadne, Färberin (\"Die Frau ohne Schatten\"), Ellen Orford (\"Peter Grimes\") and Queen Elizabeth I (\"Gloriana\"). She made her debut at the San Francisco Opera in 2006 singing the title role in Beethoven's Fidelio and returned the following season singing the role of Isolde in Tristan und Isolde.\n\nBrewer is a regular featured singer at The Proms and the Wigmore Hall.\n\nIn late March 2009, Brewer had to withdraw from the complete Ring Cycle at the Metropolitan Opera because of a knee injury.\n\nIn August 2012, Ms Brewer sang the same program that her mentor Birgit Nilsson sang at the opening of the Concert Hall at the Sydney Opera House in Sydney, Australia 40 years before. It was an all-Wagner program, three performances with the Sydney Symphony Orchestra playing and conducted by Simone Young.\n\nIn January 2013, Brewer created the role of Sister Aloysius in the world premiere of Douglas Cuomo's opera \"Doubt\" at the Minnesota Opera.\n\n\"BBC Music Magazine\" in April 2007 named her one of the top 20 sopranos of the 20th century.\n\nShe continues to work with young students in the sixth grade classroom at Marissa, Illinois where she had formerly taught music, in an outreach program in conjunction with the Saint Louis Symphony Orchestra. She currently lives in Lebanon, Illinois, with her husband Ross Brewer, a retired social studies teacher.\n\nBrewer has made a number of recordings, which include:\nBrewer was honored at the 48th Annual Grammy Awards for Best Choral Performance and Best Classical Album for her work on Bolcom's \"Songs of Innocence and Experience\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3374225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3374225", "title": "Corporation for Education Network Initiatives in California", "text": "Corporation for Education Network Initiatives in California\n\nThe Corporation for Education Network Initiatives in California (CENIC) is a nonprofit corporation formed in 1997 to provide high-performance, high-bandwidth networking services to California universities and research institutions. Through this corporation, representatives from all of California's K-20 public education combine their networking resources toward the operation, deployment, and maintenance of the California Research and Education Network, or CalREN. Today, CalREN operates over 8,000 miles of fiber optic cable and serves more than 20 million users.\n\nBeginning in the mid 1980s, research universities were served by a National Science Foundation (NSF) funded network, NSFNet. This funding ended, however, in 1995, as the NSF believed that the newly established commercial Internet could meet the needs of these institutions.\n\nA model for wide-area networking began to emerge in the early 1990s, separating regional network infrastructure from national or international “backbone” infrastructure. Regional networks would connect to one or more “Internet exchange points” where traffic would be sent to or received from one or more backbone networks. When NSFNet ceased operation, this new network structure carried both research and commercial traffic.\n\nResearchers at major universities soon began to complain that service from the commercial Internet was inadequate. This led to discussion of a separate network, funded by and for research universities, and the ultimate establishment of Internet2. The Internet2 backbone would have only two connection points in California.\n\nAt the same time, officials at the University of California, USC, Caltech, Stanford, and the California State University system (CSU) began discussing how to connect their institutions to the proposed new Internet2 network. They recognized that the key to a comprehensive information technology strategy was the development of a cohesive and seamless statewide, high-speed, advanced service network. In 1996, the University of California Office of the President, on behalf of these universities, applied for NSF funding to establish, with matching funds, a California network to provide this capacity.\n\nWhen the consortium learned it would receive a grant award, its members created a not-for-profit organization independent of the founding institutions to build and manage the network. The Corporation for Education Network Initiatives in California (CENIC) was created in 1997. CENIC’s California Research and Education Network (CalREN) first became operational in 1998, providing connections to Internet2 for the University of California campuses, Stanford, Caltech, USC, and CSU campuses. Initially, the CSU sites linked to CENIC’s network through interconnection between CalREN and 4CNet, the CSU network that already provided Internet services to all CSU campuses and the California Community Colleges.\n\nIn 2000, the State of California provided funding to the University of California for the Digital California Project, which allowed K-12 schools to connect to CalREN. The University of California contracted with CENIC to develop and implement the project, with county offices of education as the primary connection points.\n\nNext, CENIC began to design a network architecture to support all educational institutions. In 2002, the CENIC board of directors decided to obtain fiber leases for the major north-south portion of the CalREN network, putting in place an architecture that continues to the present day. CENIC has continued to add more leased fiber to its network, and today CalREN operates over 8,000 miles of fiber.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2005, CSU campuses and California Community Colleges were migrated from 4CNet to CalREN. In 2004, the Legislature shifted funding for K-12 connectivity from the University of California to the California Department of Education. This legislation also created the California K-12 High Speed Network (K12HSN) program to coordinate K-12’s participation in CENIC. Network and Internet services are currently provided to the 86 K-12 connection locations, most of which serve as aggregation node sites. These connections provide network access for 79% (7,946) of schools, 87% (861) of school districts, and 100% (58) of county offices of education in California. It is estimated that CalREN serves nearly 4.8 million K-12 public school students. In 2005, the California Community Colleges joined CENIC separately from CSU, with membership equal to that of the University of California, CSU, and the K-12 system.\n\nIn 2013, Governor Brown and the California State Legislature funded an initiative to help California’s nearly 1,200 public libraries receive high-speed broadband service. The California State Library joined CENIC on behalf of the public libraries and contracted with Califa, a non-profit library membership consortium representing library jurisdictions in California, to administer the program. That work is well underway, with almost 80% of library jurisdictions now connecting to CalREN.\n\nOver the years, affiliated educational, governmental, medical research, and cultural institutions throughout the state have been brought into the fold, creating the country's largest statewide research and education network, which now serves more than 20 million users.\n\nCharter institutions connected to the CalREN backbone include:\n\n\nOther non-charter participants include:\n\nCalREN is a three-tiered network consisting of a statewide optical backbone to which schools and other institutions in California connect at Gigabit speeds via leased circuits obtained from telecom carriers or fiber-optic cable. These tiers include:\n\n\nAll three network tiers operate independently. This enables network and other researchers on the XD and HPR tiers to push the boundaries of network research and performance without impacting performance for the other tiers.\n\nCENIC also engages in networking peering relationships, in particular Pacific Wave (a joint project between CENIC and the Pacific Northwest Gigapop, the University of Southern California, and the University of Washington), which provides peering facilities along the Pacific coast of the United States. Pacific Wave participants include networks in Australia, Canada, Japan, Korea, Qatar, Taiwan, Singapore, and the United States.\n\nCENIC engaged in peering via the TransitRail national-level peering structure. TransitRail has been merged with Internet2's Commodity Peering Service.\n\nCalREN also connects to the California Telehealth Network, ESnet (Energy Sciences Network), Internet2, CUDI (the Corporación Universitaria para el Desarrollo de Internet), the Mexican high-bandwidth research and education network, redCLARA (the Cooperación Latino-Americana de Redes Avanzadas), and CAnet4 (the Canadian optical research and education network, managed by CANARIE).\n\nCENIC is also a member of the Global Lambda Integrated Facility, which promotes optical networking to support grid computing.\n\nCalREN was expanded by funding through the state of California and its Digital California Project to include K-12 public education. When funding sources changed, the K-12 portion became the K-12 High Speed Network (K12HSN), which is managed by the Imperial County Office of Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "49515166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49515166", "title": "Crisis actor", "text": "Crisis actor\n\nA crisis actor (aka actor-patient or actor victim) is a trained actor, role player, volunteer, or other person engaged to portray a disaster victim during emergency drills to train first responders such as police, firefighters or EMT personnel. Crisis actors are used to create high-fidelity simulations of disasters in order to allow first responders to practice their skills and help emergency services organizations to prepare and train in realistic scenarios as part of full-scale disaster exercises.\n\nActors take on the role of mock victims and simulate specific injuries from a disaster to add life-like realism to an emergency exercise. Theatrical makeup and cosmetics, plus rubber and latex appliances, are often used to simulate a variety of wounds or medical conditions that realistically portray victim's injuries, a practice known as medical moulage.\n\nActors who portray news reporters, relatives of victims, and concerned citizens are also used during drills to train emergency operations center personnel to cope with a variety of emotionally-charged demands and requests.\n\nThe term has been used by conspiracy theorists who claimed that some mass shootings and other disasters were staged, and victims and their families were being played by crisis actors. Conspiracy theorists' use of the term is thought to have originated in 2012, when a blog post by former professor and professional conspiracy theorist James Tracy suggested that the government could have hired an acting agency named Visionbox, which supplied crisis actors who were \"trained in criminal and victim behavior, and bring intense realism to simulated mass casualty incidents in public places\" to help stage the Sandy Hook shooting.\n\nTracy also promoted a crisis actor conspiracy theory of the Boston Marathon bombing. Conspiracy theorists have claimed such attacks are \"false flag operations\" staged by conspirators, usually government or corporate forces, in order to achieve some goal such as justifying increased government surveillance, disarmament of the population, or military action against blamed nations or groups. Crisis actors are claimed in this context to play the part of bystanders or witnesses, emergency response personnel, and (with the aid of stage makeup) wounded victims of the attack.\n\nPopularizers of the conspiracy theory include commentators such as Alex Jones and outlets such as \"True Pundit\". In April 2018, the parents of two children killed in the Sandy Hook shooting launched a lawsuit against Alex Jones for defamation \"accusing him and his website InfoWars of engaging in a campaign of 'false, cruel, and dangerous assertions'\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37961224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37961224", "title": "Cultural studies", "text": "Cultural studies\n\nCultural studies is a field of theoretically, politically, and empirically engaged cultural analysis that concentrates upon the political dynamics of contemporary culture, its historical foundations, defining traits, conflicts, and contingencies. Cultural studies researchers generally investigate how cultural practices relate to wider systems of power associated with or operating through social phenomena, such as ideology, class structures, national formations, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, and generation. Cultural studies views cultures not as fixed, bounded, stable, and discrete entities, but rather as constantly interacting and changing sets of practices and processes. The field of cultural studies encompasses a range of theoretical and methodological perspectives and practices. Although distinct from the discipline of cultural anthropology and the interdisciplinary field of ethnic studies, cultural studies draws upon and has contributed to each of these fields.\n\nCultural studies was initially developed by British academics in the late 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, and has been subsequently taken up and transformed by scholars from many different disciplines around the world. Cultural studies is avowedly and even radically interdisciplinary and can sometimes be seen as antidisciplinary. A key concern for cultural studies practitioners is the examination of the forces within and through which socially organized people conduct and participate in the construction of their everyday lives. As a result, Cultural Studies as a field of research is not concerned with the linguistically uncategorized experiences of individuals, or, in a more radical approach, holds that individual experiences do not exist, being always the result of a particular social-political context.\n\nCultural studies combines a variety of politically engaged critical approaches drawn including semiotics, Marxism, feminist theory, ethnography, critical race theory, post-structuralism, postcolonialism, social theory, political theory, history, philosophy, literary theory, media theory, film/video studies, communication studies, political economy, translation studies, museum studies and art history/criticism to study cultural phenomena in various societies and historical periods. Cultural studies seeks to understand how meaning is generated, disseminated, contested, bound up with systems of power and control, and produced from the social, political and economic spheres within a particular social formation or conjuncture. Important theories of cultural hegemony and agency have both influenced and been developed by the cultural studies movement, as have many recent major communication theories and agendas, such as those that attempt to explain and analyze the cultural forces related to processes of globalization.\n\nDuring the rise of neo-liberalism in Britain and the US, cultural studies both became a global movement, and attracted the attention of many conservative opponents both within and beyond universities for a variety of reasons. Some left-wing critics associated particularly with Marxist forms of political economy also attacked cultural studies for allegedly overstating the importance of cultural phenomena. While cultural studies continues to have its detractors, the field has become a kind of a worldwide movement that is to this day associated with a raft of scholarly associations and programs, annual international conferences, publications and students and practitioners from Taiwan to Amsterdam and from Bangalore to Santa Cruz. Somewhat distinct approaches to cultural studies have emerged in different national and regional contexts such as the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Latin America, Asia, Africa and Italy.\n\nIn his 1994 book, \"Introducing Cultural Studies\", Ziauddin Sardar lists the following five main characteristics of cultural studies:\n\n\nAs Dennis Dworkin writes, \"a critical moment\" in the beginning of cultural studies as a field was when Richard Hoggart used the term in 1964 in founding the Centre for Contemporary Cultural Studies (CCCS) at the University of Birmingham in the UK, which was to become home for the development of the intellectual orientation that has become known internationally as the \"Birmingham School\" of cultural studies. CCCS at the university thus became the world's first institutional home of cultural studies.\n\nHoggart appointed Stuart Hall as his assistant, and Hall was effectively directing CCCS by 1968. Hall formally assumed the directorship of CCCS in 1971, when Hoggart left Birmingham to become Assistant Director-General of UNESCO. Thereafter, the field of cultural studies became closely associated with Hall's work. In 1979, Hall left Birmingham to accept a prestigious chair in Sociology at the Open University in the UK, and Richard Johnson took over the directorship of the Centre.\n\nIn the late 1990s, \"restructuring\" at the University of Birmingham led to the elimination of CCCS and the creation of a new Department of Cultural Studies and Sociology (CSS) in 1999. Then, in 2002, the University of Birmingham's senior administration abruptly announced the disestablishment of CSS, provoking a substantial international outcry. The immediate reason for disestablishment of the new department was an unexpectedly low result in the UK's Research Assessment Exercise of 2001, though a dean from the university attributed the decision to \"inexperienced ‘macho management.’\" The RAE, a holdover initiative of the Margaret Thatcher-led UK government of 1986, determines research funding for university programs.\n\nThere are numerous published accounts of the history of cultural studies.\n\nBeginning in 1964, after the initial appearance of the founding works of British Cultural Studies in the late 1950s, Stuart Hall's pioneering work at CCCS, along with that of his colleagues and postgraduate students including Paul Willis, Dick Hebdige, David Morley, Charlotte Brunsdon, John Clarke, Richard Dyer, Judith Williamson, Richard Johnson, Iain Chambers, Dorothy Hobson, Chris Weedon, Tony Jefferson, Michael Green and Angela McRobbie, gave shape and substance to the field of cultural studies. Many cultural studies scholars employed Marxist methods of analysis, exploring the relationships between cultural forms (the superstructure) and that of the political economy (the base). By the 1970s, the work of Louis Althusser radically rethought the Marxist account of \"base\" and \"superstructure\" in ways that had a significant influence on the \"Birmingham School.\" Much of the work done at CCCS studied youth subcultural expressions of antagonism toward \"respectable\" middle-class British culture in the post-WWII period. Also during the 70s, the politically formidable British working classes were in decline. Britain's manufacturing industries were fading and union rolls were shrinking. Yet millions of working class Britons backed the rise of Margaret Thatcher. For Stuart Hall and his colleagues, this shift in loyalty from the Labour Party to the Conservative Party had to be explained in terms of cultural politics, which they had been tracking even before Thatcher's victory. Some of this work was presented in the cultural studies classic, \"Policing the Crisis\", and in other later texts such as Hall's \"The Hard Road to Renewal: Thatcherism and the Crisis of the Left\" and \"New Times: The Changing Face of Politics in the 1990s\".\n\nTo trace the development of British Cultural Studies, see, for example, the work of Richard Hoggart, E. P. Thompson, Raymond Williams, Stuart Hall, Paul Willis, Angela McRobbie, Paul Gilroy, David Morley, Charlotte Brunsdon, Richard Dyer, and others.\n\nBy the late 1970s, scholars associated with The Birmingham School had firmly placed questions of gender and race on the cultural studies agenda, where they have remained ever since. Also by the late 1970s, cultural studies had begun to attract a great deal of international attention. It spread globally throughout the 1980s and 90s. As it did so, it both encountered new conditions of knowledge production, and engaged with other major international intellectual currents such as poststructuralism, postmodernism and postcolonialism. The wide range of cultural studies journals now located throughout the world, as shown below, is one indication of the globalization of the field.\n\nIn the US, prior to the emergence of British Cultural Studies, several versions of cultural analysis had emerged largely from pragmatic and liberal-pluralist philosophical traditions. However, when British Cultural Studies began to spread internationally in the late 1970s, and to engage with feminism, poststructuralism, postmodernism and race in the late 70s and 1980s, critical cultural studies (i.e., Marxist, feminist, poststructuralist, etc.) expanded tremendously in US universities in fields such as communication studies, education, sociology and literature. \"Cultural Studies\", the flagship journal of the field, has been based in the US since its founding editor, John Fiske, brought it there from Australia in 1987.\n\nA thriving cultural studies scene has existed in Australia since the late 1970s, when several key CS practitioners emigrated there from the UK, taking British Cultural Studies with them, after Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister of the UK in 1979. A school of cultural studies known as \"cultural policy studies\" is one of the distinctive Australian contributions to the field, though it is not the only one. Australia also gave birth to the world's first professional cultural studies association (now known as the Cultural Studies Association of Australasia) in 1990. Cultural studies journals based in Australia include \"International Journal of Cultural Studies\", \"\" and \"Cultural Studies Review\".\n\nIn Canada, cultural studies has sometimes focused on issues of technology and society, continuing the emphasis in the work of Marshall McLuhan, Harold Innis, and others. Cultural studies journals based in Canada include \"Topia: Canadian Journal of Cultural Studies\".\n\nIn Africa, human rights and Third World issues are among the central topics treated. Cultural Studies journals based in Africa include the \"Journal of African Cultural Studies\".\n\nIn Latin America, cultural studies has drawn on thinkers such as José Martí, Ángel Rama and other Latin American figures, in addition to the Western theoretical sources associated with cultural studies in other parts of the world. Leading Latin American cultural studies scholars include Néstor García Canclini, Jésus Martín-Barbero, and Beatriz Sarlo. Among the key issues addressed by Latin American cultural studies scholars are decoloniality, urban cultures, and postdevelopment theory. Latin American cultural studies journals include the \"Journal of Latin American Cultural Studies\".\n\nEven though cultural studies developed much more rapidly in the UK than in continental Europe, there is a significant cultural studies presence in countries such as France, Spain and Portugal. The field is relatively undeveloped in Germany, probably due to the continued influence of the Frankfurt School, which is now often said to be in its third generation, which includes notable figures such as Axel Honneth. Cultural studies journals based in continental Europe include the \"European Journal of Cultural Studies\", the \"Journal of Spanish Cultural Studies\", \"French Cultural Studies\", and \"Portuguese Cultural Studies\".\n\nIn Germany, the term \"cultural studies\" specifically refers to the field in the Anglo-sphere especially British Cultural Studies to differentiate it from the German which developed along different lines and is characterized by its distance from political science. However, Kulturwissenschaft and cultural studies are often used interchangeably, particularly by lay persons.\n\nThroughout Asia, cultural studies has boomed and thrived since at least the beginning of the 1990s. Cultural studies journals based in Asia include \"Inter-Asia Cultural Studies\". In India the Centre for Study of Culture and Society, Bangalore and the Department of Cultural Studies at The English and Foreign Languages University Hyderabad at two major institutional spaces for Cultural Studies.\n\nAs noted above, Marxism has been an important influence upon cultural studies. Those associated with CCCS initially engaged deeply with the structuralism of Louis Althusser, and later in the 1970s turned decisively toward Antonio Gramsci. Cultural studies has also embraced the examination of race, gender, and other aspects of identity, as is illustrated, for example, by a number of key books published collectively under the name of CCCS in the late 1970s and early 80s, including \"Women Take Issue: Aspects of Women's Subordination\" (1978), and \"The Empire Strikes Back: Race and Racism in 70s Britain\" (1982).\n\nTo understand the changing political circumstances of class, politics and culture in the United Kingdom, scholars at The Birmingham School turned to the work of Antonio Gramsci, an Italian thinker, writer and communist party leader of the 1910s, 20s and '30s. Gramsci had been concerned with similar issues: why would Italian laborers and peasants vote for fascists? What strategic approach is necessary to mobilize popular support in more progressive directions? Gramsci modified classical Marxism, and argued that culture must be understood as a key site of political and social struggle. In his view, capitalists used not only brute force (police, prisons, repression, military) to maintain control, but also penetrated the everyday culture of working people in a variety of ways in their efforts to win popular \"consent.\" It is important to recognize that for Gramsci, historical leadership, or \"hegemony,\" involves the formation of alliances between class factions, and struggles within the cultural realm of everyday common sense. Hegemony was always, for Gramsci, an interminable, unstable and contested process.\n\nScott Lash writes:\nEdgar and Sedgwick write:\n\nThe theory of hegemony was of central importance to the development of British cultural studies [particularly The Birmingham School. It facilitated analysis of the ways subordinate groups actively resist and respond to political and economic domination. The subordinate groups needed not to be seen merely as the passive dupes of the dominant class and its ideology.\n\nThe development of hegemony theory in cultural studies was in some ways consonant with work in other fields exploring agency, a theoretical concept that insists on the active, critical capacities of subordinated peoples (e.g. the working classes, colonized peoples, women). As Stuart Hall famously argued in his 1981 essay, \"Notes on Deconstructing 'the Popular',\" \"ordinary people are not cultural dopes.\" Insistence on accounting for the agency of subordinated peoples runs counter to the work of traditional structuralists. Some analysts have however been critical of some work in cultural studies that they feel overstates the significance of or even romanticizes some forms of popular cultural agency.\n\nCultural studies often concerns itself with agency at the level of the practices of everyday life, and approaches such research from a standpoint of radical contextualism. In other words, cultural studies rejects universal accounts of cultural practices, meanings, and identities.\n\nJudith Butler, an American feminist theorist whose work is often associated with cultural studies, wrote that\n\nthe move from a structuralist account in which capital is understood to structure social relations in relatively homologous ways to a view of hegemony in which power relations are subject to repetition, convergence and rearticulation brought the question of temporality into the thinking of structure. It has marked a shift from a form of Althusserian theory that takes structural totalities as theoretical objects to one in which the insights into the contingent possibility of structure inaugurate a renewed conception of hegemony as bound up with the contingent sites and strategies of the rearticulation of power.\n\nIn recent decades, as capitalist culture has spread throughout the world via contemporary forms of globalization, cultural studies has generated important analyses of local sites and practices of negotiation with and resistance to Western hegemony.\n\nCultural Studies criticizes the traditional view of the passive consumer, particularly by underlining the different ways people \"read,\" receive and interpret cultural texts, or appropriate other kinds of cultural products, or otherwise participate in the production and circulation of meanings. On this view, a consumer can appropriate, actively rework or challenge the meanings circulated through cultural texts. In some of its variants, then, cultural studies has thus shifted the analytical focus from (traditional understandings of) production to consumption, which is nevertheless understood as a form of production (of meanings, of identities, etc.) in its own right. Stuart Hall, John Fiske, and others have been influential in these developments.\n\nA special 2008 issue of the field's flagship journal, \"Cultural Studies\", examined \"Anti-Consumerism\" from a variety of cultural studies angles. As Jeremy Gilbert noted in his contribution to this issue, cultural studies must grapple with the fact that “we now live in an era when, throughout the capitalist world, the overriding aim of government economic policy is to maintain consumer spending levels. This is an era when ‘consumer confidence’ is treated as the key indicator and cause of economic effectiveness.\"\n\nCultural studies, drawing upon and developing semiotics, uses the concept of \"text\" to designate not only written language, but also television programs, films, photographs, fashion, hairstyles, and so forth; the texts of cultural studies comprise all the meaningful artifacts of culture. This conception of textuality derives especially from the work of the pioneering and influential semiotician, Roland Barthes, but also owes debts to other sources, such as Juri Lotman and his colleagues from Tartu–Moscow School. Similarly, the field widens the concept of \"culture.\" \"Culture,\" for a cultural studies researcher, includes not only traditional high culture (the culture of ruling social groups), but also everyday meanings and practices, which have, as noted above, become a central focus of cultural studies. Cultural studies even approaches sites and spaces of everyday life, such as pubs, living rooms, gardens and beaches, as \"texts.\"\n\nJeff Lewis summarized much of the work on textuality and textual analysis in his cultural studies textbook and a post-9/11 monograph on media and terrorism. According to Lewis, 'textual studies' use complex and difficult heuristic methods and require both powerful interpretive skills and a subtle conception of politics and contexts. The task of the cultural analyst, for Lewis, is to engage with both knowledge systems and texts, and observe and analyse the ways the two interact with one another. This engagement represents the critical dimensions of the analysis, its capacity to illuminate the hierarchies within and surrounding the given text and its discourses.\n\nCultural studies has evolved through the confluence of various disciplines—anthropology, media and communication studies, literary studies, education, geography, philosophy, sociology, politics and others. While some have accused certain areas of cultural studies of meandering into political relativism and a kind of empty version of \"postmodern\" analysis, others hold that at its core, cultural studies provides a significant conceptual and methodological framework for cultural, social and economic critique. This critique is designed to \"deconstruct\" the meanings and assumptions that are inscribed in the institutions, texts and practices that work with and through, and produce and re-present, culture. Thus, while some scholars and disciplines like to dismiss cultural studies for its methodological openness and rejection of disciplinarity, its core strategies of critique and analysis have had a profound influence throughout the more progressive and critical areas of the social sciences and humanities. Cultural studies work on forms of social differentiation, control and inequality, identity, community-building, media, and knowledge production, for example, has had a substantial impact. Moreover, the influence of cultural studies has become increasingly evident in areas as diverse as translation studies, health studies, international relations, development studies, computer studies, economics, archaeology, and neurobiology, as well as across the range of disciplines that initially shaped the emergence of cultural studies, including literature, sociology, communication studies, and anthropology.\n\nCultural studies has also diversified its own interests and methodologies, incorporating a range of studies on media policy, democracy, design, leisure, tourism, warfare and development. While certain key concepts such as ideology or discourse, class, hegemony, identity and gender remain significant, cultural studies has long engaged with and integrated new concepts and approaches such as deconstruction and postmodernism. The field thus continues to pursue political critique through its engagements with the forces of culture and politics.\n\nThe Blackwell \"Companion to Cultural Studies\", edited by leading cultural studies scholar Toby Miller, contains essays that analyze the development of cultural studies approaches within each of a wide range of disciplines across the contemporary social sciences and humanities.\n\nMany cultural studies practitioners work in departments of English or Comparative Literature. Nevertheless, some traditional literary scholars such as Yale professor Harold Bloom have been outspoken critics of cultural studies. On the level of methodology, these scholars dispute the theoretical underpinning of the movement's critical framework.\n\nBloom stated his position during the September 3, 2000 episode of C-SPAN's \"Booknotes\", while discussing his book \"How to Read and Why\":\n\nMarxist literary critic Terry Eagleton is not wholly opposed to cultural studies, but has criticised aspects of it and highlighted what he sees as its strengths and weaknesses in books such as \"After Theory\" (2003). For Eagleton, literary and cultural theory have the potential to say important things about the \"fundamental questions\" in life, but theorists have rarely realized this potential.\n\nCultural studies has also had a substantial impact on sociology. For example, when Stuart Hall left CCCS at Birmingham, it was to accept a prestigious professorship in Sociology at the Open University in Britain. The subfield of cultural sociology, in particular, is disciplinary home to many cultural studies practitioners. Nevertheless, there are some differences between sociology as a discipline and the field of cultural studies as a whole. While sociology was founded upon various historic works purposefully distinguishing the subject from philosophy or psychology, cultural studies has explicitly interrogated and criticized traditional understandings and practices of disciplinarity. Most CS practitioners think it is best that cultural studies neither emulate disciplines nor aspire to disciplinarity for cultural studies. Rather, they promote a kind of radical interdisciplinarity as the basis for cultural studies.\n\nOne sociologist whose work has had a major influence upon cultural studies is Pierre Bourdieu. Bourdieu's work makes innovative use of statistics and in-depth interviews. However, although Bourdieu's work has been highly influential within cultural studies, and although Bourdieu regarded his work as a form of science, cultural studies has never embraced the idea that it should aspire toward \"scientificity,\" and has marshalled a wide range of theoretical and methodological arguments against the fetishization of \"scientificity\" as a basis for cultural studies.\n\nTwo sociologists who have been critical of cultural studies, Chris Rojek and Bryan S. Turner, argue in their article, \"Decorative sociology: towards a critique of the cultural turn\", that cultural studies, particularly the flavor championed by Stuart Hall, lacks a stable research agenda, and privileges the contemporary reading of texts, thus producing an ahistorical theoretical focus. Many, however, would argue, following Hall, that cultural studies has always sought to avoid the establishment of a fixed research agenda; this follows from its critique of disciplinarity. Moreover, Hall and many others have long argued against the misunderstanding that textual analysis is the sole methodology of cultural studies, and have practiced numerous other approaches, as noted above. Rojek and Turner also level the accusation that there is \"a sense of moral superiority about the correctness of the political views articulated\" in cultural studies\n\nIn 1996, physicist Alan Sokal expressed his opposition to cultural studies by submitting a hoax article to a cultural studies journal, \"Social Text\". The article, which was crafted as a parody of what Sokal referred to as the \"fashionable nonsense\" of postmodernism, was accepted by the editors of the journal, which did not at the time practice peer review. When the paper appeared in print, Sokal published a second article in a self-described \"academic gossip\" magazine, \"Lingua Franca\", revealing his hoax on \"Social Text\". Sokal stated that his motivation stemmed from his rejection of contemporary critiques of scientific rationalism:\n\nHall and others have identified some core originating texts, or the original \"curriculum\", of the field of cultural studies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13517224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13517224", "title": "Documentary research", "text": "Documentary research\n\nDocumentary research is the use of outside sources, documents, to support the viewpoint or argument of an academic work. The process of documentary research often involves some or all of conceptualising, using and assessing documents. The analysis of the documents in documentary research would be either quantitative or qualitative analysis (or both). The key issues surrounding types of documents and our ability to use them as reliable sources of evidence on the social world must be considered by all who use documents in their research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47794619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47794619", "title": "Eclectic approach", "text": "Eclectic approach\n\nEclectic approach is a method of language education that combines various approaches and methodologies to teach language depending on the aims of the lesson and the abilities of the learners. Different teaching methods are borrowed and adapted to suit the requirement of the learners. It breaks the monotony of the class.\nIn addition, It is a conceptual approach that does not merely include one paradigm or a set of assumptions. Instead, eclecticism adheres to or is constituted from several theories, styles, and ideas in order to gain a thorough insight about the subject, and draws upon different theories in different cases. ‘Eclecticism’ is common in many fields of study such as psychology, martial arts, philosophy,teaching,religion and drama \n\nThere are varied approaches and methods used for language teaching. In eclectic approach, the teacher can choose from these different methods and approaches:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40074894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40074894", "title": "Enrique Leff", "text": "Enrique Leff\n\nEnrique Leff (born Mexico, 1946) is a Mexican economist, who defines himself today as an environmental sociologist and environmentalist. He has written 25 books and 180 articles on political ecology, environmental sociology, environmental economics, environmental epistemology and environmental education. He is regarded as one of the key environmental thinkers in Latin America.\n\nAfter a degree in chemical engineering from UNAM (Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México) in 1968. Leff graduated with a Doctorat de Troisième Cycle in development economics from the École Pratique des Hautes Études, Paris, in 1975.\n\nLeff lectured at UNAM (Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México) full-time from 1973-1986 before becoming coordinator of the Environmental Training Network for Latin America and the Caribbean (1986-2008) and coordinator of the Mexico City office of the Regional Office of Latin America and the Caribbean of the United Nations Environment Programme (2007-2008).\n\nIn 2008 he returned full-time as professor of political ecology and environmental politics at UNAM. He is also senior researcher at the Institute of Social Research (Instituto de Investigaciones Sociales) at the same university.\n\nLeff works in Spanish, Portuguese, English and French. In addition to academic work he is an accomplished opera, Lieder and bolero singer. He has a Masters in Voice from the Manhattan School of Music (1983).\n\nLeff works in the academic fields of epistemology, environmental economics, environmental sociology, political ecology, and environmental education.\n\nHe is best known for arguing that environmental problems result from a crisis of Western civilization's ways of knowing, understanding and transforming the world (Eschenhagen 2012). This masks other legitimate ways of thinking and acting in the world, namely forms of 'eco-development' and environmental rationality. His work is largely theoretical but his major books cite positive examples of the ethnobotanic practices of Prehispanic cultures in Latin America, sustainable agricultural practices in tropical ecosystems, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47131634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47131634", "title": "Feeling Yes, Feeling No", "text": "Feeling Yes, Feeling No\n\nFeeling Yes, Feeling No (French: Mon corps, c'est mon corps) is a film series produced and distributed by the National Film Board of Canada to teach children between the ages of six and twelve to avoid being sexually assaulted by people they trust, family members, and strangers. The films consist of recordings of a play that began development in 1980 in Vancouver, British Columbia by Green Thumb Theatre. Dennis Foon, Wendy Van Reisen, and Fran Gebhard finished writing the play in 1982. Initially performed in workshops with children, the play was very successful. The filmed version of the play consists of four films directed by Moira Simpson and released in 1984 along with accompanying printed matter intended to be used together as a sexual assault prevention program. The program is six hours long and explains the difference between good and bad physical intimacy. The series uses the terms 'yes' feelings and 'no' feelings and focuses on role-playing. The program was first implemented in primary schools in British Columbia and later spread to other Canadian provinces. In a 1991 study, 286 children in grades three and four went through the program and another 113 children were used as a control group. The study found that the children who went through the program had greater knowledge about sexual assault than the control children, and that the children who went through the program were slightly better than the control children at distinguishing between safe and unsafe situations.\n\n"}
{"id": "13401074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13401074", "title": "Forrest County Agricultural High School", "text": "Forrest County Agricultural High School\n\nForrest County Agricultural High School (FCAHS) is a public, secondary school in Brooklyn, Mississippi (USA). The school provides education to grades 9-12. \n\nForrest County AHS is one of two independently functioning agricultural high schools in the state of Mississippi. \n\nAn independent school board operates FCAHS, which has its own farm and ranch. Those affiliated with the school are known as \"Aggies.\"\n\nIts academic performance, as of 2012, was at the Mississippi average. In a seven-year period from 2005 to 2012 the enrollment increased.A 2012 report by Augenblick, Palaich and Associates suggested that FCAHS should continue operation as is. \n\nThere were a total of 588 students enrolled at Forrest County Agricultural High School during the 2006–2007 school year. The gender makeup of the school was 51% female and 49% male. The racial makeup of the school was 68.88% White, 30.44% African American, and 0.68% Hispanic. 39.3% of the school's students were eligible to receive free lunch. The Aggies excel in various sports, especially football in recent years. Under the leadership of Head Coach Larry Dolan, the Aggies have reached the playoffs in each of the last nine seasons,(2005-2013) including four trips to the third round of the 4-A state playoffs. In 2006, the Aggies went undefeated in the regular season, losing to Terry in the third round, and completing the season with a 12–1 record. Among the final eight teams remaining in those 2006 4A state playoffs, F.C.A.H.S. is the only school to maintain its 4-A classification upon Mississippi's shift to a 6-A class system. The other seven teams now hold a 5-A or 6-A classification. As of 2012, the Aggies produced their first \"straight from high school\" Division 1-A prospect in Adarius Perkins, who signed with Mississippi State University in February of that year. In the 2013 season, the Aggies reached the South State Championship for the first time, defeating Quitman at home. Following South State, the Aggies overcame the Lafayette Commodores to become the 2013 4-A State Champions. Shortly after the season ended, Forrest County had three signees on February 5th. The most notable among these signees was Dontavian Lee, who signed a scholarship to play Running Back at Mississippi State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "27116031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27116031", "title": "Fédération Syndicale Unitaire", "text": "Fédération Syndicale Unitaire\n\nThe Fédération syndicale unitaire is the main trade union in the education sector in France and the largest trade union in the public sector. It has 162,000 members, of whom 88% are teachers. \n\nIt is organised on the same lines as its predecessor, the Fédération de l'éducation nationale.\n\nThe general secretary is Bernadette Groison.\n\n"}
{"id": "23686762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23686762", "title": "Hysteria Hospital: Emergency Ward", "text": "Hysteria Hospital: Emergency Ward\n\nHysteria Hospital: Emergency Ward is a casual video game published by O-Games on June 16, 2009 in North America. The game is a simulation/strategy that bears a striking resemblance to the popular Diner Dash franchise.\n\nHysteria Hospital tasks users with coordinating the management of a hospital. The goal of the game is to accumulate money over time by serving patients. Users can purchase new equipment such as X-Ray machines to meet the demands of their patients. Main gameplay elements involve diagnosing patients, and moving them to the applicable local facilities if available (or the ambulance to get sent elsewhere). Patients are moved by dragging them to different areas. A nurse is controllable by clicking on objects, and performs chores such as fetching prescriptions, making beds and cleaning waste.\n\nThe game was met with very mixed to negative reception upon release. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 51% and 45 out of 100 for the DS version, and 50.30% and 53 out of 100 for the Wii version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37562640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37562640", "title": "Ileana Citaristi", "text": "Ileana Citaristi\n\nIleana Citaristi is an Italian-born Odissi and Chhau dancer, and dance instructor based in Bhubaneswar, India. She was awarded the 43rd National Film Awards for Best Choreography for \"Yugant\" in 1995 and became, in 2006, the first dancer of foreign origin to be conferred the Padma Shri for her contributions to Odissi.\n\nCitaristi, a native of Bergamo, Italy, the daughter of Severino Citaristi, a leading politician of the Democrazia Cristiana party of Italy. She spent five years as an actress in traditional and experimental theatre in Italy before deciding to learn Kathakali.\n\nShe went to Kerala, where she spent three rigorous months studying Kathakali before she went to Odisha on the advice of her Kathakali guru, Krishnan Namboodari.\n\nSince 1979, she has been living in Odisha. She holds a Doctorate of Philosophy with a thesis on 'Psychoanalysis and Eastern Mythology'.\n\nCitaristi studied Odissi under Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra and started her own school of dance in 1994. Citaristi is also an exponent of the Mayurbhanj Chhau, which she learnt under the tutelage of Guru Hari Nayak and holds the title of an acharya of Chhau from the Sangeet Mahavidyalya of Bhubaneswar. She founded the Art Vision Academi in 1996, which acts as a platform for sharing ideas between various artistic forms such as theatre, music, dance and painting. The Academi also conducts classes in Odissi and Chhau.\n\nIleana Citaristi is noted for her innovative choreographic productions in Odissi and Chhau that bring together themes and styles from both the West and the East. In Chhau, some of her notable productions are ‘Echo and Narcissus' based on the Greek myth in Ovid's Metamorphoses, ‘The Journey' that draws on Japanese haikus, ‘Images of Change' based on the Chinese concept of Yin and Yang and ‘Still I Rise' based on Maya Angelou's eponymous poem. In Odissi, 'Maya Darpan', 'Mahanadi: and the river flows', about the history and cultural geography of Orissa, 'Karuna', based on the life of Mother Teresa and Sharanam, a piece on women from three faiths who attain salvation despite their dubious pasts, are some of her notable compositions.\n\nBesides Yugantar, a Bengali film directed by Aparna Sen for which she won a National Film Award in 1996, Citaristi has also choreographed for M.F. Hussain's \"\" (2004) and Goutam Ghose's \"Abar Aranye\" (2003).\nCitaristi is also the author of three books. In 2001, she published \"The Making of a Guru: Kelucharan Mohapatra, his Life and Times\" in 2012 the \"Traditional Martial Practices in Orissa\" and in 2016 \"My Journey, a Tale of Two Births\".\n\nCitaristi is an ´A´ grade artist of Doordarshan. She was conferred the title of ´Leonide Massine for the art of dance' in 1992. In 1996, she won the National Film Award for Best Choreography for her work in Aparna Sen's Bengali film \"Yugant\" (1995). She is empanelled as ‘outstanding artist’ in ICCR.\n\nShe is also a recipient of the ´Raseshwar Award' given by the Sur Singar Sansad, Mumbai. For her contributions to Odissi, she was conferred the Padma Shri by Government of India in 2006. The Italian government made her a member of the Order of the Star of Italian Solidarity in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33113554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33113554", "title": "Indian Association of Chemistry Teachers", "text": "Indian Association of Chemistry Teachers\n\nThe Indian Association of Chemistry Teachers or IACT, now known as the Association of Chemistry Teachers or ACT, is a body that coordinates the Chemistry Olympiad for India along with Indian Association of Physics Teachers and HBCSE.\nACT conducts the National Standard Examination in Chemistry in November of each year throughout the country in collaboration with IAPT, with approximately 30,000-35,000 participants. The top 1% then sit for the Indian National Chemistry Olympiad, from where the top thirty students are selected for the International Chemistry Olympiad Training Camp, usually conducted at HBCSE. Here, the team for the International Chemistry Olympiad is selected.\n\n"}
{"id": "3717827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3717827", "title": "Intel Foundation Achievement Award", "text": "Intel Foundation Achievement Award\n\nThe Intel Foundation Achievement Awards are US$5,000 scholarships presented to high school students in recognition of their achievements in the scientific disciplines. Up to 15 are awarded, on selection by a panel of judges, each year at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair (ISEF).\n\n"}
{"id": "35221133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35221133", "title": "International Agriculture Students Symposium", "text": "International Agriculture Students Symposium\n\nInternational Agriculture Students Symposium (IASS) is a symposium about agriculture. The purpose of this Symposium is to provide a platform for students from round the world to share latest agricultural information and enable the integration of the most up–to–date results, technologies and solutions to ensure food safety as well as the welfare of mankind. Agriculture has been known as the foundation of civilizations. It plays a vital role in the survival of mankind. The world today is facing various challenges such as food shortage and the steep increase of fuel price. Recent advances in breeding, biotechnology, bio-fuel research, germplasm management, agronomy and others provide\nagricultural countries and their farmers with great opportunity to use diverse research solutions to overcome the challenges they face.\n\nBesides that, to encourage networking collaboration among universities and students.\n\nAgriculture is the foundation of civilizations. It plays a vital role in the survival of mankind. The world today facing various challenges such as food crisis and an increase in waste products. Recent advances in crop breeding, biotechnology, bio-fuel research, germplasm management, agronomy and others provide agriculturists with great opportunities to develop diverse solutions to overcome the challenges in this sector.\n\nThe purpose of this symposium is to provide a platform for students from around the world to share their idea and experience in agriculture. Besides that, the meeting of young minds can enhance networking and collaboration among students and universities.\n\nObjectives :\n\n1. Promote sharing of ideas and experiences among students in agriculture across the globe\n\n2. Promote collaboration and international networking among agriculture students around the world\n\n3. Promote understanding of agriculture heritage and international culture among the students from participating countriesAgriculture is the foundation of civilizations. It plays a vital role in the survival of mankind. The world today facing various challenges such as food crisis and an increase in waste products. Recent advances in crop breeding, biotechnology, bio-fuel research, germplasm management, agronomy and others provide agriculturists with great opportunities to develop diverse solutions to overcome the challenges in this sector.\n\nThe purpose of this symposium is to provide a platform for students from around the world to share their idea and experience in agriculture. Besides that, the meeting of young minds can enhance networking and collaboration among students and universities.\n\nObjectives :\n\n1. Promote sharing of ideas and experiences among students in agriculture across the globe\n\n2. Promote collaboration and international networking among agriculture students around the world\n\n3. Promote understanding of agriculture heritage and international culture among the students from participating countries\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51270256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51270256", "title": "Khan Lab School", "text": "Khan Lab School\n\nKhan Lab School is an independent school in Mountain View, California, associated with Khan Academy. It is a laboratory school founded by educator Sal Khan.\n\nKhan Lab School allows educators, administrators, and educational technology leaders to tour the school and participate in conversations about the model. Oxford Day Academy, a charter school in East Palo Alto, California, has publicly credited Khan Lab School with being the inspiration for key components of its model. Oxford Day Academy founder Mallory Dwinal conducted pilot work with students at Khan Lab School.\n\nCharla Harris, founder of Learning by Design Charter School in Los Angeles, has purportedly stated that she will use the Khan Lab School learning space as a model for how she will design the learning space of her elementary school. After visiting Khan Lab School in 2016, she stated that her school would offer personalized and project-based learning because “there’s not only an achievement gap, but also an innovation gap.”\n\nAt the Arizona State University Global Silicon Valley Summit in May 2017, Colleen Broderick of startup company AltSchool drew comparisons between AltSchool and Khan Lab School, referencing the changing role of the educator and the absence of grades and grade bands.\n\nIn 2017, Khan Lab School worked with architect Danish Kurani to design and build a high school. Instead of traditional classrooms, the school has architecturally diverse spaces where faculty test different approaches to learning. Physical and digital displays enable faculty to share their educational experiments with colleagues and visiting educators. A wide range of tools and settings allows students to work according to their preference and learning style. \n"}
{"id": "46847017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46847017", "title": "Kumasi Technical Institute", "text": "Kumasi Technical Institute\n\nKumasi Technical Institute is a coeducational second-cycle technical school in Kumasi in the Ashanti Region of Ghana\n\nThe school was established in 1976 with support from the government of Ghana.\n\n"}
{"id": "22058100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22058100", "title": "Leo Funtek", "text": "Leo Funtek\n\nLeo Funtek (August 21, 1885 — January 13, 1965) was a Slovenian violinist, conductor and arranger. He is best known for work as a music professor and for his 1922 arrangement of Modest Mussorgsky's piano suite \"Pictures at an Exhibition\".\n\nFuntek was born in Ljubljana, Slovenia. He received his musical education at the Leipzig Conservatory (now the Felix Mendelssohn College of Music and Theatre) and Leipzig University.\n\nFuntek spent most of his working life in Finland, where he was conductor of the Finnish Opera. He was concertmaster with the Helsinki Philharmonic Orchestra from 1906 to 1909, and then was orchestra director of the Viipuri orchestra from 1909 to 1910. His most prominent role as a practicing musician was as conductor of the Finnish Opera from 1915 to 1959. He also served as assistant concertmaster for the Stockholm court orchestra from 1916 to 1919.\n\nIn addition to his work as a practicing musician, Funtek was an academician. His first such post was from 1911 to 1939, at the Helsinki Institute of Music (now the Sibelius Academy), where he taught violin, ensemble and orchestration. He later taught at the Sibelius Academy in Helsinki, where he was a professor of violin at from 1939 to 1955, and where he also taught the conducting class from 1950 to 1955. He is credited with the introduction of orchestral training into the conducting class. Funtek's students included Jorma Panula, who himself went to become a leading professor of conducting; as well as Helvi Leiviskä (1902–1982) and Heidi Sundblad-Halme (1903–1973), two of Finland's most prominent female composers; and the composer Usko Meriläinen.\n\nAs an arranger, Funtek is best known for his orchestral arrangement of \"Pictures at an Exhibition\", which he published in July 1922, just months before an orchestration by the French composer Maurice Ravel, of whose project Funtek was seemingly unaware. Ravel's orchestration premiered in October 1922, and is now by far the most-performed of the several orchestrations of the suite. In contrast to other orchestrations, Funtek's adheres closely to Mussorgsky's original piano version.\n\nFuntek was married to Finnish soprano Ingeborg Liljeblad. He died in Helsinki.\n"}
{"id": "1789779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789779", "title": "Literae humaniores", "text": "Literae humaniores\n\nLiterae humaniores, nicknamed greats, is an undergraduate course focused on classics (Ancient Rome, Ancient Greece, Latin, ancient Greek, and philosophy) at the University of Oxford and some other universities. The Latin name means literally \"more human literature\" and was in contrast to the other main field of study when the university began, i.e. \"res divinae\", also known as theology. Lit. hum. is concerned with human learning, and lit. div. with learning that came from God. In its early days, it encompassed mathematics and natural sciences as well. It is an archetypal humanities course.\n\nThe University of Oxford's classics course, also known as \"greats\", is divided into two parts, lasting five terms and seven terms respectively, the whole lasting four years in total, which is one year more than most arts degrees at Oxford and other English universities.\n\nThe course of studies leads to a Bachelor of Arts degree. Throughout, there is a strong emphasis on first hand study of primary sources in the original Greek or Latin.\n\nIn the first part (\"honour moderations\" or \"mods\") students concentrate on Latin and/or Greek language; in the second part students choose eight papers from the disciplines of classical literature, Greek and Roman history, Philosophy, Archaeology, and Linguistics. The teaching style is very traditional and consists of weekly tutorials in each of the two main subjects chosen, supplemented by a wide variety of lectures. The main teaching mechanism remains the weekly essay, one on each of the two main chosen subjects, typically written to be read out at a one-to-one tutorial; this affords all students plenty of practice at writing short, clear, and well-researched papers.\n\nChanged in the late 20th century, a strong emphasis remains on study of original texts in Latin and Greek, assessed by \"prepared translation\" and by \"gobbet\" (a short commentary on an assigned primary source). In a typical \"text\" paper candidates will be expected first to translate into English three or four long passages selected by the examiners from the set books; and secondly to comment on each of an extended set of short paragraphs or sentences from the same set texts; marks are awarded for recognising the context and the significance of each excerpt.\n\nThe mods (moderations – exams conducted by moderators) course runs for the first five terms of the course. The traditional aim was for students to develop their ability to read fluently in Latin (especially the \"Aeneid\" of Virgil) and Greek (concentrating on the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\"); this remains the case today, but the course has changed to reflect the continuing decline in the numbers of applicants who have had the opportunity to study Greek and Latin at school.\n\nSince the early 1970s, it has been possible to begin learning Greek during the preparation for mods (an option originally called mods-B, the brainchild of John G. Griffiths of Jesus). More recently, due to the omission of Latin and Greek from the National Curriculum since 1988, options have been added for those without Latin either.\n\nThere are now five alternative paths through mods.\n\n\nLanguage tuition is now organized centrally within the university by the Faculty of Classics; this leaves the colleges free to concentrate on teaching classical literature/rhetoric, history and philosophy.\n\nThe mods examination has a reputation as something of an ordeal: it evolved in the 21st century from 11 or 12 three-hour papers across seven consecutive days into 10 or 11 three-hour papers across seven or eight days. Candidates for classical mods thus still face a much larger number of exams than undergraduates reading for most other degrees at Oxford sit for their mods, prelims or even, in many cases, finals.\n\nStudents who successfully pass mods may then go on to study the full greats course in their remaining seven terms. Those choosing the 'Course II' version are expected to read as many of their finals texts in the original of their chosen language as those on Course I; there is, moreover, the option of studying the second classical language as two papers at finals.\n\nThe traditional greats course consisted of detailed study of Roman and Greek history and philosophy, contrasting ancient philosophers (Plato and Aristotle) with modern philosophers. In 1968 an elective 'Latin and Greek Literature' was added; students chose two of the three.\n\nSince then, various combined courses have also been developed including:\n\nIn 2004 the full \"lit. hum.\" course was revised; students examined since 2008 now choose eight papers from a wide range of subject areas:\n\n\nThe regulations governing the combinations of papers are moderately simple: students must take at least four papers based on the study of ancient texts in the original Latin or Greek; otherwise they can choose what they want, provided only that if they offer literature papers, they must offer the appropriate \"core\" papers too, and if they choose to offer \"period\" papers in history then they must offer one of the approved combinations.\n\nIn the past it was compulsory also to offer papers in unprepared translation from Latin and Greek into English; these papers counted \"below the line\" — candidates were required to pass them, but they did not otherwise affect the overall class of the degree. This requirement has now been dropped, and it is possible to pass greats without offering any unprepared translation papers. The formerly optional prose and verse composition papers (English into Latin and Greek) have been removed from the greats syllabus entirely.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41608292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41608292", "title": "Lobster College", "text": "Lobster College\n\nThe Lobster College is a four-day-long educational program held in Prospect Harbor, Maine. The college has been held every year since 2001. It was founded by Dr. Robert Bayer via the Lobster Institute, and a local innkeeper, to help educate tourists and the general public about lobsters, lobstering, and the effects of the lobster industry on the state economy. Lecturers include academics, lobster fishermen, and others involved in the seafood industry such as restaurant owners.\n"}
{"id": "18519546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18519546", "title": "Marion Rice", "text": "Marion Rice\n\nMarion Burbank Stevens Rice (September 9, 1904 – April 12, 1995) was an American modern dance choreographer, dance teacher and producer.\n\nRice was born in Hingham, Massachusetts. She studied ballet at Sullins College. She settled in Fitchburg, Massachusetts and founded the \"Marion Rice Studio of the Dance\" where she taught and performed Denishawn technique for over 60 years. She studied in the late 1920s and early 30's with Ted Shawn, Ruth St. Denis, Miriam Winslow and the Braggiotti sisters at the Braggiotti-Denishawn School of Dance in Boston, often performing Denishawn works in their concerts.\n\nShe produced work by Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn as well as her own choreography. Among the dancers and choreographers she trained were her daughter Carolyn Brown of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, her daughter-in-law Mona Irvine Rice, and her granddaughters Robin Rice and Rebecca Rice.\n\nShe also operated her own dance company, the Marion Rice Denishawn Dancers, and in 1980 staged her version of \"Soaring,\" for Les Grands Ballets Canadiens in Montreal. Marion Rice Denishawn performed at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1972, the Marymount Manhattan Theater (New York) in 1976 and City College (New York) in 1986 at the \"Roots: Foundations of American Modern Dance Festival\".\n\nMarion Rice Denishawn or Marion Rice Denishawn Dancers is a dance company devoted to preserving Denishawn dance, the choreography of modern dance pioneers Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, taught and staged by Marion Rice. Marion Rice dedicated her creative life to teaching, preserving, protecting and performing the fifty or so dance works taught to her by Ruth St. Denis, Ted Shawn, Miriam Winslow and other modern dance luminaries while she was a student and performer at the Boston Braggiotti School in Boston in the early 1900s. Along with members of her family, daughter Carolyn Brown, daughter-in-law Mona Irvine Rice, granddaughters Robin Rice and Rebecca Rice, these Denishawn dances have been performed by Marion Rice and her students for over 75 years.\n\nMarion Rice Denishawn performed in Fitchburg, Massachusetts as well as at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1972, the Marymount Manhattan Theater (New York) in 1976 and City College (New York) in 1986 at the 'Roots: Foundations of American Modern Dance Festival'.\n\nIn 2000, \"Marion Rice Denishawn\" performed at the \"Dance in Millennium\" Festival in Washington. The company presented \"Boston Braggiotti and Denishawn\", a lecture demonstration illuminating a select number of the early Denishawn works.\n\nVillage Voice critic Deborah Jowitt wrote about the performance in the following review:\nRuth St. Denis, American mystic, and Ted Shawn, entrepreneur, were a great team. During the glory days of their Denishawn company—roughly 1916 to 1931—a gifted disciple could obtain a franchise and open a Denishawn school. For a price, a young dancer could learn a colorful routine and secure its sheet music and costume design. Last month, two companies—the Marion Rice Denishawn dancers at the \"Dancing in the Millennium\" conference in Washington, D.C., and Dansarté, at Jacob's Pillow—presented programs of dances by St. Denis, Shawn, and their pupils.\n\nWhat's intriguing about these dances—learned by Robin and Rebecca Rice at their grandmother's studio, and from Shawn at Jacob's Pillow in 1942 and 1943 by Dansarté's director, Sharry Underwood—is the way they combine the notion of art dance with a vaudeville structure. They tend to be about three minutes long, with reassuring amounts of repetition, structured in A-B-A form. Shawn and St. Denis captured the look and ambience of \"exotic\" styles, if not their steps. Dansarté's beautiful Maris Wolff, gorgeously costumed, performs an orientalist's dream of an Indian \"nautch\" dance—all rippling midriff, swaying steps, and flirtatious glances. Rice dancer Laurie Cameron appears for the circa 1930 fantasy La Peri (by either St. Denis or Miriam Winslow, who took over the Boston Denishawn school of the Braggiotti sisters), wafting swags of material that depend from her cap. The heelwork that Dansarté's Jean-Marie Mellichamp beats out in Viva Faroan has the air of flamenco without its now familiar complexities. In the early 20th century, what did American audiences know or care about authenticity?\n\nOn these fine programs, you can see the influence of Isadora Duncan in Chopin dances performed with lovely sincerity by the Rices, or get a whiff of German modernism in Miriam Marmein's circa 1932 mime, Argument des Boulevardiers, in which Valerie Farias Newton and Rebecca Rice wear mannish attire and gesticulate with rhythmic fury. Jess Meeker's music for Shawn's Gypsy-Rondo-Bout-Town nudges Dansarté's Genevieve Pellman and Neth Urkiel-Taylor from Haydn to swing. In all these early pieces, theatrical traditions, fashion, and experiment tiptoe toward modern dance.\nIn 2000, Marion Rice Denishawn performed in the \"Dance in Millennium\" Festival in Washington, DC. The company presented \"Boston Braggiotti and Denishawn\", a lecture demonstration illuminating a select number of the early Denishawn works.\n\nAnna Kisselgoff wrote in the \"New York Times\": \n\"Marion Rice's stagings of Denishawn works are always fresh and beautiful – the perfect example was the St. Denis \"Valse No. 14\" in which Robin Rice and Rebecca Rice were also swathed in swirling fabric – but much more actively so than in theFuller solo. The amount of basic ballet taught in the Denishawn schools was evident in Robin Rice's luminous performance of Shawn's \"Red Radiance.\"\n\n\\\\\n"}
{"id": "2386521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2386521", "title": "Mathilde Kschessinska", "text": "Mathilde Kschessinska\n\nMathilda-Marie Feliksovna Kschessinskaya (, ; 6 December 1971; also known as Princess Romanovskaya-Krasinskaya after her marriage) was a Russian ballerina from a family of Polish origin. Her father Feliks Krzesiński and her brother both danced in St. Petersburg. She was a mistress of the future Tsar Nicholas II of Russia prior to his marriage, and later the wife of his cousin Grand Duke Andrei Vladimirovich of Russia.\n\nShe was known in the West as \"Mathilde Kschessinska\" or \"Matilda Kshesinskaya\".\n\nKschessinska was born at Ligovo, near Peterhof. Like all her Polish family, to whom she was known as Matylda Krzesińska, Mathilde performed at the Imperial Mariinsky Theatre of Saint Petersburg with the renowned Imperial Ballet. Kschessinskaya made her début in a \"pas de deux\" from \"La Fille Mal Gardée\" during a graduation performance in 1890 attended by Emperor Alexander III and the rest of the Imperial family, including the future Nicholas II. At the post-performance supper, the emperor sought out the young Kschessinskaya and told her to \"...be the glory and adornment of our ballet.\"\n\nIn 1896, she obtained the rank of \"Prima ballerina\" of the Saint Petersburg Imperial Theatres. The old maestro Marius Petipa did not consent to Kschessinskaya receiving such a title and although she possessed an extraordinary gift as a dancer, she obtained it primarily via her influence at the Imperial Russian Court.\n\nPetipa allowed Kschessinskaya to create only a small number of new roles, as he considered the Italian Pierina Legnani to be the superior ballerina. Although she was able to command top billing in theatre programmes or on posters, her efforts to obtain more new roles were thwarted by Petipa, whose authority over the artistic direction of the Imperial Ballet was not challenged even by the Emperor himself. Among the few roles Kschessinskaya created were Flora in \"Le Réveil de Flore\" (1894) and Columbine in \"Harlequinade\" (1900). She also became the first Russian danseuse to master the 32 \"fouettés en tournant\" of Legnani.\n\nAlthough Petipa had a great respect for Kschessinskaya as a dancer, he thoroughly despised her as a person, referring to her in his diaries as \" ... that nasty little swine.\" Even so, he chose her for the lead roles in many of the final revivals of his older masterworks, often devising intricate choreography for her to execute—the shade of Mlada in \"Mlada\" (1896), Queen Nisia in \"Le Roi Candaule\" (1897), the Goddess Thetis in \"Les Aventures de Pélée\" (1897), Aspicia in \"The Pharaoh's Daughter\" (1898), the title role in \"La Esmeralda\" (1899), and Nikiya in \"La Bayadère\" (1900). Such roles became notoriously difficult once Petipa revised them for Kschessinskaya.\n\nIn 1899, Prince Serge Wolkonsky became Director of the Imperial Theaters. Although he held the position only until 1902, he achieved a great deal. Sergei Diaghilev was his immediate assistant, and Wolkonsky entrusted him with the publication of the Annual of the Imperial Theaters in 1900. During this period, new names appeared in the theaters, such as painters Alexandre Benois, Konstantin Somov, and Léon Bakst. However, Wolkonsky was forced to send in his resignation after clashing with Kschessinskaya when she refused to wear the panniers of an 18th-century costume in the ballet \"La Camargo\".\n\nKschessinskaya had been involved with the future Nicholas II, from 1890, when he was a grand duke and she was just seventeen, having met him in the presence of his family after her graduation performance. The relationship continued for three years, until Nicholas married Princess Alix of Hesse-Darmstadt—the future Empress Alexandra Fyodorovna—in 1894, shortly after the death of his father, Tsar Alexander.\n\nScandals and rumours around her name developed and persisted as she engaged in a sexual relationship with two Grand Dukes of the Romanov family: Sergei Mikhailovich and his cousin Andrei Vladimirovich. In 1902, she gave birth to a son, Vladimir (known as \"Vova\"; 30 June 1902 – 23 April 1974); he was later titled H.S.H. Prince Romanovsky-Krasinsky, but said that he never knew for sure who his father was.\n\nWhile Kschessinska could be charming and kind to colleagues, such as the young Tamara Karsavina, she was not afraid to use her connections with the Tsar to strengthen her position in the Imperial Theatres. She was known to sew valuable jewels into her costumes and came on stage as the Princess Aspicia in \"The Pharaoh's Daughter\" wearing her diamond encrusted tiaras and chokers. She could also be ruthless with rivals. One of her most famous miscalculations occurred when, while pregnant in 1902, she coached Anna Pavlova in the role of Nikya in \"La Bayadère\". She considered Pavlova to be technically weak and believed that the other ballerina could not upstage her. Instead, audiences became enthralled with the frail, long-limbed, ethereal-looking Pavlova, and a star was born.\n\nAnother notorious incident occurred in 1906 when Kschessinskaya's coveted role of Lise in the Petipa/Ivanov production of \"La Fille Mal Gardée\" was given to Olga Preobrajenska. One feature of this production was the use of live chickens on stage. Before Preobrajenska's variation in the \"Pas de ruban\" of the first act, Kschessinskaya opened the doors to the chickens' coops and, at the first note of the music, the chickens went flying about the stage. Nevertheless, Preobrajenska continued her variation to the end and received a storm of applause, much to Kschessinskaya's chagrin.\n\nThrough her aristocratic connections, she managed to amass much valuable property in the Russian capital. It was from the balcony of her elegant house that Vladimir Lenin addressed the revolutionary crowd when he returned from Switzerland in 1917.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution, Kschessinska moved first to the French Riviera and then to Paris, where she married, in 1921, one of the tsar's cousins, Grand Duke Andrei Vladimirovich of Russia, the possible father of her son Vova. Although Kschessinska's life in Paris was modest compared with the lavish life she had enjoyed in Russia, she lived on happily for over 50 years. In 1925 Mathilde converted from Catholicism to Russian Orthodoxy and took the name Maria. In 1929, she opened her own ballet school, where she taught such students as Dame Margot Fonteyn, Dame Alicia Markova, André Eglevsky, Tatiana Riabouchinska, Tamara Toumanova and Maurice Béjart. She performed for the last time at the age of 64, for a charity event with The Royal Ballet at Covent Garden.\n\nIn 1960, she published an autobiography entitled \"Souvenirs de la Kschessinska\" (published in English as \"Dancing in St. Petersburg: The Memoirs of Kschessinska\"). In later years, she suffered financial difficulties but remained indomitable. She died in Paris, eight months short of her 100th birthday. She is buried at the Sainte-Genevieve-des-Bois Russian Cemetery.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39449167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39449167", "title": "Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (Czech Republic)", "text": "Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (Czech Republic)\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic () is a government ministry that was established in 1969. Before the Velvet Divorce of 1993, it was the Ministry of Education of Czechoslovakia.\n"}
{"id": "3124337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3124337", "title": "Nachlass", "text": "Nachlass\n\nNachlass (, older spelling Nachlaß) is a German word, used in academia to describe the collection of manuscripts, notes, correspondence, and so on left behind when a scholar dies. The word is a compound in German: \"nach\" means \"after\", and the verb \"lassen\" means \"to leave\". The plural can be either \"Nachlasse\" or (with Umlaut) \"Nachlässe\". The word is not commonly used in English; and when it is, it is often italicized or printed in capitalized form to indicate its foreign provenance.\n\nThe Nachlass of an important scholar is often placed in a research library or scholarly archive. Other workers in the scholar's area of specialization may obtain permission to comb through the Nachlass, seeking important unpublished scholarly contributions or biographical material. The content of a Nachlass can be catalogued, edited, and in some cases published in book form.\n\nSuch publication is more difficult for a Nachlass that contains a great deal of material, such as that of Gottfried Leibniz. In such cases, it may not be financially possible to publish its entire contents. The Nachlass of Ludwig Wittgenstein, kept at the University of Bergen, has been digitized and published in compact disc format.\n\nKlagge and Nordmann note a conflict that faces an editor choosing what to publish draft material from a Nachlass: to understand a scholar (in this case Wittgenstein) \"as he would want to be understood, we should focus on the works that came closest to passing muster with him.\" Yet publication of draft material may perhaps assist in a deeper understanding of the published versions, and also help understand the process whereby the scholar created his or her works.\n\nSometimes it is known what the original scholar's view was concerning what should be done with his or her Nachlass, and these views differ greatly. Near the end of his life Gottlob Frege wrote to his adopted son:\n\nFrege's wishes probably went unfulfilled: his Nachlass, although duly archived in the library of the University of Münster, is believed to have been destroyed in 1945 by an Allied bombing raid during the Second World War.\n\nThe philosopher Edmund Husserl developed a strong commitment to his Nachlass (which included about 40,000 pages of sketches) during the last years of his life, allowing his colleagues to sort and classify it. Bernet, Kern, and Marbach suggest that because Husserl had difficulty in putting his thoughts into a definitive, publishable form, he accordingly attached great importance to the survival of his notes. In fact, because Husserl was of Jewish ethnicity and died in Germany in the year 1938, his Nachlass only narrowly escaped destruction under the Nazi regime.\n\nAlfred North Whitehead, in contrast, asked that his Nachlass be destroyed, a wish that his widow carried out. According to Lowe (1982), Whitehead \"idealized youth and wanted young thinkers to develop their own ideas, not spend their best years on a Nachlass.\" Gilbert Ryle likewise disapproved of scholars spending their time editing a Nachlass. According to Anthony Palmer, he \"hated the Nachlass industry and thought that he had destroyed everything of his that he had not chosen to publish himself so that there would be no Ryle \"Nachlass\".\" (\"One or two\" papers (Palmer) did survive, however, and were published.)\n\nHenri Bergson's Nachlass was destroyed by his widow at his request. Lawlor and Moulard suggest that the destruction of Bergson's papers, by depriving later scholars of the stimulation of examining a Nachlass, actually affected his posthumous standing: \"The lack of archival material is one reason why Bergson went out of favor during the second half of the Twentieth Century.\"\n\n\n\nUse of the word in German is not limited to academic contexts. It is frequently used to refer to the entirety of a person's estate after they died, usually in the context of inheritance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6788839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6788839", "title": "National Center on Education and the Economy", "text": "National Center on Education and the Economy\n\nThe National Center on Education and the Economy (NCEE) is a not-for-profit, policy analysis and development organization based in Washington, DC. It was formed by its current president, Marc Tucker, with the stated mission: “To analyze the implications of changes in the international economy for American education, formulate an agenda for American education based on that analysis and seek wherever possible to accomplish that agenda through policy change and development of the resources educators would need to carry it out.” [http://www.ncee.org [1<nowiki>]</nowiki>]\n\nNCEE has three programs: The Center on International Education Benchmarking, The National Institute for School Leadership and a consulting service for states and large school districts.\n\nNCEE's Center on International Education Benchmarking (CIEB) funds and conducts research around the world on the most successful education systems to identify the strategies those countries have used to produce their superior performance. Through its books, reports, website, monthly newsletter, and a weekly update of education news around the world, CIEB provides up-to-date information and analysis on those countries whose students regularly top the PISA league tables. CIEB's global research is conducted in consultation with some of the foremost global education researchers and leaders and CIEB's international benchmarking reports have been used by policymakers across the political spectrum. Over the years, CIEB has benchmarked the education systems of Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Ireland, India, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Singapore, South Korea, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.\n\nSince its inception, CIEB has undertaken, funded and published groundbreaking research from some of the world's foremost education researchers and leaders including:\n\nThe National Institute for School Leadership (NISL) partners with state and district education leaders around the United States to deliver training for school and education system leaders intended to help them implement the world's most successful education practices. NISL offers a uniquely comprehensive curriculum using the latest research on adult learning. It is perhaps the only rigorously researched, proven leadership program that districts can deliver themselves, allowing for a wider and deeper impact. NISL is the culmination of an $11 million R&D investment, five years of research and field-testing, and ongoing updates that leverage leading researchers and practitioners from education and other fields.\n\nNISL's Executive Development Program emphasizes the role of principals as strategic thinkers, instructional leaders and creators of a just, fair and caring culture in which all students meet high standards. It ensures that school leaders have the knowledge, skills, and tools to effectively set direction for teachers, support their staff in improving instructional practices, and design a high-performing school organization that is rooted in professional learning. The program combines best practices in teaching and learning, subject-area content knowledge, and leadership knowledge and practices using an approach with proven results in preparing top-flight instructional leaders. NISL's Executive Development Program (EDP) is now the most widely used, rigorous school leadership development program in the country with more than 12,000 school leaders trained across 27 states. Multiple research studies have shown that students in schools led by NISL-trained leaders outperformed their peers on state tests in both math and reading.\n\nNISL is implementing a national advanced credentialing system that aims to revolutionize the principalship in America. The project's goal is more than to simply identify and credential high-performing principals but also to create large numbers of them. The initiative is being piloted in partnership with state departments of education in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Mississippi under a three-year, $10.9 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education through its highly competitive Supporting Effective Educator Development (SEED) grant program. NISL is building the advanced credentialing system based on two major research findings. First, numerous studies have pointed to the importance of a strong principal in accelerating student learning, particularly in low-performing schools. Second, based in large part on international benchmarking research conducted by its parent organization, the National Center on Education and the Economy, several of the highest-performing education systems in the world use a similar strategy to leverage school principal leadership development as a foundation of their improvement approach. NISL's advanced credentialing system will give principals a transparent, codified and respected leadership development system that supports and rewards them as they progress through their careers—as it does in the world's top-performing education systems. The advanced credentialing system will empower principals, building their capacity as instructional leaders to improve teacher effectiveness and increase student achievement—across whole schools and whole districts.\n\nIn 2015, NISL was awarded a $12 million U.S. Department of Education Validation-level Investing in Innovation (i3) grant to study a large-scale implementation of its Executive Development Program (EDP). The study encompasses delivery across three states—California, Florida and Mississippi. The Validation-level i3 grants are highly competitive awards “aimed at validating and spreading promising programs on a state or regional scale.” NISL's proposal was selected on the basis of the initiative's significance—including its ability to address “a challenge for which there is a national need for solutions that are better than the solutions currently available”— its ability to scale, the quality of the project design and management plan, and the quality of the project evaluation. The i3 grant to NISL, with backing from the Wallace Foundation, now supports principals in 88 districts that serve nearly 1.7 million students, many from economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Training began in September 2015 and will provide rigorous and comprehensive leadership support to 750 principals throughout the duration of the grant. In doing so, the NISL initiative will directly impact the learning of 375,000 students, roughly equaling the total students to be served by all other 2014 i3 grants combined. District-designated staff in all three states will be trained and certified to deliver the NISL program to future cohorts, ensuring sustainability and scalability beyond the life of the grant. In addition to the wide-scale impact of the support provided by the grant, the initiative will also produce a “gold standard” study of NISL's EDP and coaching. This study, conducted by a team of external evaluators from the RAND Corporation, will use a rigorous randomized control trial design. The researchers will assess the impact of the three-state effort on principals, teachers and students. The external evaluators have calculated that 93,334 students have been impacted during the first year of the grant period.\n\nNCEE's consulting services provide the research, analysis and strategic planning support states and districts need to design education systems for high performance, equity and efficiency. NCEE's consulting services bring to bear the lessons learned from three decades of benchmarking top-performing systems around the world and enlist the expertise of top researchers, analysts, policymakers, and practitioners from the U.S. and abroad. The process involves comparing the state or district to the top nations, states, and provinces in the world on each of the 9 Building Blocks, so that state and district leaders can see where they are doing well and where they have a distance to go. It involves pulling together a group of state leaders to actually go and visit two or three of the leading countries, talk to many people there at all levels of the system, and see for themselves what can happen if a concerted effort is made and sustained over a long enough period of time to make a difference, and then helping that group help others understand what they have observed and work with a broad group of stakeholders to come up with a long-range plan to build a comprehensive system of the kind that they have seen. To assist in this consulting service, NCEE enlists top researchers, analysts, policymakers, and practitioners all over the world who are prepared to help NCEE help states and districts that are interested in building world-class systems of education.\n\nIn 1989, NCEE created the National Alliance for Restructuring Education (NARE), which was aimed at promoting student performance in large urban districts and progressive states through standards-based education reform. That same year, NCEE created the bi-partisan Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce and a year later the organization produced the report \"America’s Choice: high skills or low wages!\" [http://www.americaschoice.org/ourhistory [2<nowiki>]</nowiki>]\n\nIn 1992 NCEE, in conjunction with 23 states and 6 cities, created the New Standards Project. The goal of New Standards was to develop standards for the core subjects in the curriculum and applied learning standards coupled with new assessment instruments designed to measure those standards using new, complex performance tasks that more closely resemble real world problems, thereby providing a rich context in which students could demonstrate their knowledge and skills [http://www.nctm.org/news/release.aspx?id=770 [3<nowiki>]</nowiki>].\n\nSix years later, in 1998 NCEE created the America's Choice School Design Program based on the work of NARE and New Standards.[http://www.americaschoice.org/ourhistory%20America’s%20Choice%20History [2<nowiki>]</nowiki>] The program provides research-based school instructional intervention solutions and programs for states, districts, and schools. In 2010, Pearson acquired America's Choice from NCEE, with the vision of bringing the America's Choice model to a worldwide market [http://www.americaschoice.org/pearsonacquisition [4<nowiki>]</nowiki>].\n\nIn 1999, NCEE launched the National Institute for School Leadership, a program designed to train principals for high performing schools. The Institute has since served more than 3,800 principals in 14 states, and was adopted as the primary statewide professional development program in both Massachusetts and Pennsylvania.[http://www.nisl.net [5<nowiki>]</nowiki>] NISL now offers other professional development programs focused on specific issues such as early childhood, English Language Learners, excellence in science and students with disabilities.\n\nIn 2006, NCEE released \"Tough Choices or Tough Times\" closely examining the strategies that had been used by one nation after another to surpass the achievement of American Students offering, for the first time, a comprehensive education reform agenda based on NCEE's education benchmarking work over almost 20 years. \n\nIn 2011, NCEE launched the Excellence for All program, a network of 21 high schools committed to piloting these proposals in the United States. These schools became the focus of a multi-year research program to examine what happened when certain fundamental changes in the structure of American high schools intended to greatly reduce dropouts, increase the proportion of high school students ready to succeed in college and reduce or even eliminate the need for college students to take remedial courses before they can qualify to take credit-bearing college courses were implemented. The results of that research have been a very important contributor to the design of NCEE's greatly expanded design for its signature leadership training program, the National Institute for School Leadership.\n\nIn November, 2011 NCEE established the Center on International Education Benchmarking. The Center expanded NCEE's continuing program of comparative research on effective education systems and developed a comprehensive web portal designed to enable people all over the world to more easily access information, analysis and opinion about the strategies used by the countries with the world's most successful education systems.\n\nIn 2014, the Center on International Education Benchmarking partnered with the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL) to support a bipartisan study group of state legislators from across the country investigating top-performing education jurisdictions around the world. CIEB supported the study group as it worked over two years to understand what has led to high student performance in those countries, provinces and states. And CIEB helped the study group members think about how what they learn could be adapted to improve the quality and effectiveness of education in US states for all young people. This work resulted in the groundbreaking report\" No Time to Lose: How to Build a World-Class Education System State by State.\"\n\nDillon, Sam. \"High Schools to Offer Plan to Graduate 2 Years Early\". \"The New York Times.\" 2010-18-2\n\n[1] Official NCEE website <br>\n[2] America’s Choice History <br>\n[3] National Council of Teachers of Mathematics ( As of February 2016, the preceding web page [URL] is a , but \"see also\" some archived copies thereof, such as those available via the Wayback machine, e.g. https://web.archive.org/web/20110207030157/http://nctm.org/news/release.aspx?id=770 ) <br>\n[4] America’s Choice Press Release <br>\n[5] NISL \n"}
{"id": "46269470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46269470", "title": "Neeraj Mehta", "text": "Neeraj Mehta\n\nNeeraj Mehta (born 19 October 1972) is a fitness therapist and nutritionist, having worked within the industry for more than three decades.\nHis career in fitness began at 9 years of age, when he began training in the martial arts, subsequently winning his first national gold medal at 12. He eventually mastered fourteen different fitness disciplines, including karate, taekwondo, kickboxing, Tai chi, Iron Yoga, pilates, High Intensity workout, and Cross-training.\n\nWith a PhD in Human Bio mechanics and Alternative Medicine, Neeraj Mehta, in the course of his career, he developed a technique named as BMXStrength (Biomechanics Exercise Technology). This technique emphasises exercising according to individual biomechanics, so as to produce results in less time with little strain on the joints. As the targeted muscle groups are used, supporting muscles are less taxed. While emphasising safety, he has marketed the technique to people who find difficulty followed by frequent injuries, sports persons and older adults.\n\nHis Idea of fitness revolves around following correct biomechanics, right postures and movements and flexibility. \"For most people, fitness is all about lifting weights and using supplements. But fitness is all about being flexible and fit: being suitable to fulfill a particular role or task. A person with more muscle should be more flexible than one who is having less muscle mass. The human body muscle can stretch up to 30% of their length, but the connective tissues that can stretch up to just 4-5%. While lifting weights, and doing repetitions, one usually applies a lot of pressure on the connective tissues and the joints, leading to stiffness or strains causing injury. Exercise should keep in mind proper alignment of muscles and joints, and the availability of oxygen for the right effect, like four wheels of a car that need to be aligned well for a smooth, accident-free run\", He said in a conversation with Mid Day during one of his regular workshops.\n\nPromoting the idea of senior fitness, he collaborated with HelpAge India and conducted a fitness workshop for seniors named as \"fit@fifty\". He recommends strength training for seniors, explaining the same to The Hindu he said \"it is internationally proven that a person who is becoming older is most lacking in his or her muscle strength because they are losing their hormones and body balance. So, if they train themselves in strength training, they can strengthen their upper and lower body parts and also increases their metabolic process.\"\n\nLater, he became notable as the primary proponent of Iron Yoga in India, a technique designed primarily to improve flexibility and maintain muscle strength.\n\nIn the field of sports, he has participated in the different type of sports, like taekwondo, karate, Judo, Athletics. Powerlifting etc.\n\nHe represented India in IJK World Judo Championship held in Miami (USA) Dated: 18th - 21st, November 2016.\n\nGot overall winner in the MASTER category (master best lifter), in Delhi State Powerlifting Championship, organized by India Powerlifting Federation. (21 May 2017).\n\nDelhi State Masters Championship organized by Veterans Athletic Association \n\nHe is a regular writer, columnist and exercise videos provider for TOI and lot of newspapers and magazines, News Wire Agencies such as The Hindu, IANS, Deccan Herald.\n\n4 celebrity trainers reveal the biggest lies in the fitness industry\nExercising after 40\nVideo: 9-minute quick weight loss workout\nThis 4-minute workout will burn more fat than a 60-minute one\nHe is associated with Tata Sky's new interactive venture and India's first fitness channel \"Tata Sky Active Fitness\" in collaboration with Brilliant Living TV. He host a show \"Body Engineering with Neeraj Mehta\", which is based on Bio mechanic way of working out.\n"}
{"id": "18348660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18348660", "title": "ORPHEUS", "text": "ORPHEUS\n\nORPHEUS, the Organisation for PhD Education in Biomedicine and Health Sciences in the European System, is an association of biomedical and health science faculties and institutions. ORPHEUS is dedicated to the development of standards for the PhD.\n\nORPHEUS was established in April 2004 with a European Conference on Harmonisation of PhD Programmes in Biomedicine and Health Sciences held in Zagreb. It became clear that despite many similarities PhD programmes there are also important differences in content and the standard expected. Thus a PhD title (also known as Doctor of Philosophy) may have different meanings in different parts of Europe. While some countries did not have any clinical PhD programmes, others had even two. Thus, the delegates coming from 25 universities and from 16 European countries agreed that there was a need for European harmonisation and they accepted 'The Declaration of the European Conference on Harmonisation of PhD Programmes in Medicine and Health Sciences' ('Zagreb Declaration'), which contain the first European consensus statement what a PhD programme should consist of and aim for. Many of the ideas of the 'Zagreb Declaration' are also seen in the '10 Salzburg Principles' and in the subsequent Salzburg II paper from the EUA-CDE.\n\nThe Second European Conference held in Zagreb in 2005, included delegates from 33 universities, from 21 European countries, issued a document ‘Guidelines for Organisation of PhD Programmes in Biomedicine and Health Sciences’ and launched the idea for the necessity to establish a European association of PHD programmes, for which the name ORPHEUS was accepted.\n\nThird ORPHEUS 2007 conference was held in Helsinki. Participants from 43 universities from 26 European countries issued a document: ‘Helsinki Consensus Statement on PhD Training in Clinical Research’ (‘Helsinki Consensus Statement’) emphasizing the importance of PhD research in clinical medicine\n\nFourth ORPHEUS 2009 conference was held in Aarhus with 165 participants from 33 European countries the main topic: Maintaining the quality of the PhD degree. A major outcome of the conference was the production of a position paper, \"Towards standards for PhD education in biomedicine and health sciences\".\n\nFifth ORPHEUS 2010 conference was held in Vienna with 196 participants from 39 European countries with the main topic “The Advancement of European Biomedical and Health Science PhD Education by Cooperative Networking”.\n\nSixth ORPHEUS 2011 conference was held in Izmir with 305 participants from 39 European countries with the main topic \"PhD Quality Indicators for Biomedicine and Health Sciences”.\n\nSeventh ORPHEUS 2012 conference in Bergen with 200 participants from 30 European countries with the main topic \"Establishing evaluation of PhD Training\".\n\nThe aims of ORPHEUS are:\n\nORPHEUS has published Standards for PhD Education in Biomedicine and Health Sciences in Europe. Joint publication with Association of Medical Schools in Europe and World Federation for Medical Education. Published by Aarhus University Press, Aarhus 2012. .\n\nOther important ORPHEUS documents:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3180351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3180351", "title": "Pell Grant", "text": "Pell Grant\n\nA Pell Grant is a subsidy the U.S. federal government provides for students who need it to pay for college. Federal Pell Grants are limited to students with financial need, who have not earned their first bachelor's degree, or who are enrolled in certain post-baccalaureate programs, through participating institutions. The Pell Grant is named after Democratic U.S. Senator Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, and was originally known as the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant. A Pell Grant is generally considered the foundation of a student's financial aid package, to which other forms of aid are added. The Federal Pell Grant program is administered by the United States Department of Education, which determines the student's financial need and through it, the student's Pell eligibility. The U.S. Department of Education uses a standard formula to evaluate financial information reported on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for determining the student's expected family contribution (EFC).\n\nPell Grants were created by the Higher Education Act of 1965. These federal funded grants are not like loans, and need not be repaid. Students may use their grants at any one of approximately 5,400 participating postsecondary institutions. These federally funded grants help about 5.4 million full-time and part-time college and vocational school students nationally. , six of the top ten colleges (by total Pell Grant money awarded) were for-profit (proprietary) institutions.\n\nToday, the Pell Grant program assists undergraduates of low-income families, who are actively attending universities and or other secondary institutions. However, before the Pell Grant became what it is today, it went through numerous changes.\n\nIn 1965, Congress passed the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA). President Lyndon B. Johnson implemented the HEA as a part of his administration's agenda to assist and improve higher education in the United States. It was the initial legislation to benefit lower- and middle-income students. The HEA program included not only grants but also low interest loans to students who did not qualify for grants. Universities and other institutions, such as vocational schools, benefited as well from the HEA program, by receiving federal aid to improve the quality of the education process. Student aid programs administered by the US Department of Education are contained in Title IV of the HEA and so are called \"Title IV Programs.\"\n\nIn 1972, Title IX Higher Education Amendments were a response to the distribution of aid in the current grant. Senator Claiborne Pell set forth the initial movements to reform the HEA. Opportunity Grant Program (Basic Grant) were intended to serve as the \"floor\" or \"foundation\" of an undergraduate student's financial aid package. Other financial aid, to the extent that it was available, would be added to the Basic Grant up to the limit of a student's financial need. Most changes to the federal student aid program result from a process called \"reauthorization\". Through the process of reauthorization, Congress examines the status of each program and decides whether to continue that program and whether a continued program requires changes in structure or purpose. Congress has reauthorized campus-based programs every five or six years, beginning in 1972.\n\nIn 1994, Congress passed the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act (VCCLEA), a provision of which revoked Pell Grant funding \"to any individual who is incarcerated in any federal or state penal institution.\" A provision of this Act overturned a section of the Higher Education Act of 1965, which created the Pell Grant for postsecondary education. The provision reads, \"No basic grant shall be awarded under this subpart to any individual who is incarcerated in any Federal or State penal institution.\" Prisoners first became eligible for basic grant funding in 1972. As the principal design of the Pell Grant was to help low-income individuals attain post-secondary education, including prisoners was consistent with the goal. The grant aimed to reach those who might not otherwise have an opportunity to enroll in college study or vocational training programs. Including prisoners for funding was based on the notion that higher education improved inmates, reduced recidivism, and contributed to a more orderly institution. There is growing advocacy for reinstating Pell Grant funding for all prisoners who would qualify, despite their incarceration status by members of the House of Representatives who introduced the Restoring Education and Learning Act (REAL Act) in the spring of 2015. Education represents an opportunity to take the straight and narrow, to break the cycle. At the executive level, the Obama Administration backed a program at the Department of Education that would allow for a limited lifting of the ban for some prisoners called the Second Chance Pell Pilot.\n\nThe Higher Education Amendments of 1972 reauthorized the three campus-based programs, leaving the Economic Opportunity Grant Program with the same name, but renaming the two others: the National Defense Student Loan Program became the National Direct Student Loan or Federal Direct Student Loan Program and the Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program (SEOG). In addition, Proprietary (profit-making) schools became eligible to use Title IV Funds. Also, the Educational Opportunity Grant Program would no longer function as a stand-alone program of gift aid but instead would be linked with the Basic Grant Program.\n\nIn 1978, the Middle Income Student Assistance Act of 1978 (MISAA) was signed into act by President Jimmy Carter. This bill provides more generous Basic Educational Opportunity Grant, Pell Grants to low-income students, and makes students from families with incomes up to about $250,000 eligible. An additional 1.5 million students from middle-income families became eligible for the Basic Grants program.\n\nIn 1978, the alterations to the HEA were made to honor Claiborne Pell with his hard work and dedication to improving the higher education of the students in the United States.\n\nFamilies were now able to borrow $300 a year for each dependent child in school regardless of income.\n\nSeveral changes to the program occurred in 2011. The maximum award amount for the 2011–2012 award year is $5,500. Despite a shortened application process, fewer funds for the 2011–2012 program could lead to financial problems for many students. The government funded the program at $17.1 billion from 2008–2010, as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. However, the additional funding does not match the needs of increasing numbers of students who enroll in college and qualify for aid through the recession. The Pell Grant program was subject to a $5.7 billion decrease in funding as part of a continuing resolution (H.R. 1), which cleared the House in February 2011 and cut about $60 billion from the federal budget. The changes would take effect for the 2011–2012 school year, decreasing the maximum amount of aid for the most needy students from $5,550 to $4,705 a year; in addition, about 1.7 million students who receive smaller Pell Grants would become ineligible for the program. Approval for the cuts is not certain because of long-standing bipartisan support from the Senate. As of April 6, 2011, funds have not been approved, as the Senate has not voted to pass this legislation.\n\nThe application process requires the student and the student's family complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form. The applicant should complete the FAFSA form for the first time prior to starting the freshman undergraduate year and then update the form each year as the applicant progresses through the college undergraduate term. The first step in applying for the Pell Grant is to complete or update the FAFSA form on or after March 1 of each year. If an applicant must correct a completed FAFSA form, it can be done in step 3 of the application, in the \"Make corrections to a processed FAFSA\" section. When the student completes or updates the FAFSA application, answers to questions determine eligibility for the Pell Grant, among other government grants and funding.\n\nAfter the initial FAFSA application is submitted, the student is notified by email or regular postal delivery if funding is awarded. Copies of the confirmation sheet should be made for personal records.\n\nThe Department of Education has a standard formula that it uses to evaluate the information that each person supplies when applying for the Pell Grant. The formula used was created by Congress from criteria submitted through the FAFSA form. The formula produces a number that is called the Expected Family Contribution (EFC), which determines the student's eligibility.\n\nThis grant requires each applicant to be an undergraduate student who has not yet earned a bachelor's degree, and a United States citizen or an eligible non-citizen (usually, a permanent resident). In addition, the applicant must have a high school diploma or a GED or be able to demonstrate the ability to benefit from the program. Applicants must also sign a statement certifying that they will use the aid only for education-related purposes, that they are not currently in default for any federal student loans, and that they owe no refund for any federal education grants.\n\nThe Pell Grant also requires that students maintain satisfactory academic progress in a degree-oriented program as defined by the school they attend. Males between the ages of 18 and 25 must register with the Selective Service. A person may be eligible if previously incarcerated but with limited eligibility, depending on the offense.\n\nStudents may be ineligible if they have been convicted of a drug-related offense, but it depends on the actual charge, when it happened, and if they attended a drug rehabilitation program. They must not have an outstanding Pell overpayment on record. Students who received a full scholarship of any kind are ineligible.\n\nAn applicant may not receive Pell Grant funds from more than one college at a time.\n\nAs with all grants, there is a maximum amount that the government funds for each applicant. For the 2010–2011, 2011–2012, 2012–2013, and 2013-2014 award years, the maximum amount was $5,645. The maximum amount has increased for the 2014-2015 award year to $5,730. The maximum amount of the grant usually depends on the EFC and several other factors, including cost of attendance, the amount of time the student plans to attend college, whether it is a full academic year, and whether one is a full-time or part-time student Once one has been considered eligible, the money can be obtained a couple of ways: the student's school can apply Pell Grant funds to school costs, pay the student directly, usually by check, or combine these methods.\n\nThe school must tell the student in writing how much the award will be and how and when it will be paid, and it must disburse Pell Grant funds once a semester/term or twice during the academic year. Under certain circumstances, Pell funds can also be used to fund Career Pathways programs and support services.\n\nAdvocacy efforts are growing to reinstate prisoner eligibility for the Pell Grant. There is growing focus on education as a preventative to re-incarceration. An increasing number of studies underscore education as a critical factor. In 1997, one study on 3,200 prisoners in three states showed that simply attending school behind bars reduced the likelihood of re-incarceration by 29 percent.\n\nTypically, the college first applies the grant or loan money toward a student's tuition, fees, and (if the student lives on campus) room and board. Any money left over is paid to the student for other expenses: books, living expenses if the student does not live on campus, and transportation.\n\nStudents coming from low-income families already face increased challenges that hinder their ability to receive a higher education. The Pell Grant addresses one of the issues by making college accessible to students that may need the financial assistance. It has been shown to increase the college enrollment of students coming from lower and moderate-income families. It can also reduce the chances of them dropping out.\n\nNote: The amount for FY 2006 includes $4.3 billion to retire prior-year funding shortfalls; the amount for FY 2008 includes $2 billion in mandatory funds.\n\nNote: The amounts for FY 2008 and FY 2009 include $2,000,000,000 and $2,100,000,000, respectively, in mandatory funds. In addition, the $17,114,000,000 in 70 U .S. Department of Education Recovery Act funds includes $1,474,000,000 in mandatory funds, of which 831,000,000 is for use in academic year 2010–11.\n\nNote: The amount for FY 2009 includes $2,090,000,000 in definite mandatory funds and $16,283,000,000 in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 funds, of which $643,000,000 is mandatory. The FY 2010 appropriation amount includes $5,299,816,000 in indefinite mandatory funds. The FY 2011 appropriation above includes $13,500,000,000 in mandatory funds to help reduce discretionary need and $5,218,184,000, which is the estimate of indefinite mandatory funds needed. http://www2.ed.gov/programs/fpg/funding.html\n\n2011\n\nAmount of Aid Available: $35,772,935,000\nAmount of Aid Available represents the amount of funds to be awarded to participants in this program.\nNumber of New Awards Anticipated: 9,413,000\nAverage New Award: $3,800\nRange of New Awards: $555–$5,550\n\n2010\n\nAmount of Aid Available: $32,295,226,000\nAmount of Aid Available represents the amount of funds to be awarded to participants in this program.\nNumber of New Awards Anticipated: 8,355,000\nAverage New Award: $3,865\nRange of New Awards: $555–$5,550\n\n2009\n\nAmount of Aid Available: $25,328,889,000\nAmount of Aid Available represents the amount of funds awarded to participants in the Federal Student Aid programs. Depending upon the program, this total may include federal appropriated dollars, institutional or state matching dollars, and federal or private loan capital.\nNumber of New Awards Anticipated: 7,022,000\nAverage New Award: $3,611\nRange of New Awards: $486–$5,350\n\n2008\n\nAmount of Aid Available: $16,428,110,000\nAmount of Aid Available represents the amount of funds awarded to participants in the Federal Student Aid programs. Depending upon the program, this total may include federal appropriated dollars, institutional or state matching dollars, and federal or private loan capital.\nNumber of New Awards Anticipated: 5,578,000\nAverage New Award: $2,945\nRange of New Awards: $400–$4,731\n\n2007\n\nAmount of Aid Available: $13,989,305,000\nAmount of Aid Available represents the amount of funds awarded to participants in the Federal Student Aid programs. Depending upon the program, this total may include federal appropriated dollars, institutional or state matching dollars, and federal or private loan capital.\nNumber of New Awards Anticipated: 5,339,000\nAverage New Award: $2,620\nRange of New Awards: $400–$4,310\n\nThe scheduled award is the maximum amount of Federal Pell Grant funding a student can receive is calculated for an award year. An award year is a period from July 1 of one calendar year to June 30 of the next year.\n\nThe scheduled award is partially determined using the student's expected family contribution (EFC), which the program calculates from the information the student and family provided in the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The result is the maximum amount the student can receive for the award year if enrolled full-time for the full school year. It represents 100% of the Pell Grant eligibility for that award year.\n\nTo determine how much of the maximum six years (600%) of Pell Grant the student uses each year, the U.S. Department of Education (ED) compares the actual amount awarded for the award year with the scheduled award amount for that award year. A student who uses 100% receives the full award. A student might not receive the entire scheduled award for an award year, most commonly if the student did not enroll for the full year, did not enroll full-time, or both. If the student does not receive the full award, ED calculates the percentage of the scheduled award they received. Before the 2011-2012 Aid Year, the FAFSA limit was 18 semesters, but it was cut to 12 semesters by Congress.\n\nED tracks the Lifetime Eligibility Used by adding the percentages of the Pell Grant scheduled awards a student receives each award year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24482368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24482368", "title": "Personal boundaries", "text": "Personal boundaries\n\nPersonal boundaries are guidelines, rules or limits that a person creates to identify reasonable, safe and permissible ways for other people to behave towards them and how they will respond when someone passes those limits. They are built out of a mix of conclusions, beliefs, opinions, attitudes, past experiences and social learning. This concept or life skill has been widely referenced in self-help books and used in the counseling profession since the mid-1980s.\n\nAccording to some counselors, personal boundaries help to define an individual by outlining likes and dislikes, and setting the distances one allows others to approach. They include physical, mental, psychological and spiritual boundaries, involving beliefs, emotions, intuitions and self-esteem. Jacques Lacan considered such boundaries to be layered in a hierarchy, reflecting \"all the successive envelopes of the biological and social status of the person\". Personal boundaries operate in two directions, affecting both the incoming and outgoing interactions between people. These are sometimes referred to as the \"protection\" and \"containment\" functions.\n\nThe three most commonly mentioned categories of values and boundaries are:\n\nSome authors have expanded this list with additional or specialized categories such as \"spirituality\", \"truth\", and \"time/punctuality\".\n\nNina Brown proposed four boundary types:\n\n\nThe personal boundaries concept is particularly pertinent in environments with controlling people or people not taking responsibility for their own life.\n\nCo-Dependents Anonymous recommends setting limits on what members will do to and for people and on what members will allow people to do to and for them, as part of their efforts to establish autonomy from being controlled by other people’s thoughts, feelings and problems.\n\nThe National Alliance on Mental Illness tells its members that establishing and maintaining values and boundaries will improve the sense of security, stability, predictability and order, in a family even when some members of the family resist. NAMI contends that boundaries encourage a more relaxed, nonjudgmental atmosphere and that the presence of boundaries need not conflict with the need for maintaining an understanding atmosphere.\n\nIn \"Families and How to Survive Them\", Robin Skynner MD explains methods for how family therapists can effectively help family members to develop clearer values and boundaries by when treating them, drawing lines, and treating different generations in different compartments – something especially pertinent in families where unhealthy enmeshment overrides normal personal values. However, the establishment of personal values and boundaries in such instances may produce a negative fall-out, if the pathological state of enmeshment had been a central attraction or element of the relationship. This is especially true if the establishment of healthy boundaries results in unilateral limit setting which did not occur previously. It is important to distinguish between unilateral limits and collaborative solutions in these settings.\n\nAnger is a normal emotion that involves a strong uncomfortable and emotional response to a perceived provocation. Often, it indicates when one's personal boundaries are violated. Anger may be utilized effectively by setting boundaries or escaping from dangerous situations.\n\nAddicts often believe that being in control of others is how to achieve success and happiness in life. People who follow this rule use it as a survival skill, having usually learned it in childhood. As long as they make the rules, no one can back them into a corner with their feelings.\n\nPeople with certain mental conditions are predisposed to controlling behavior including those with obsessive compulsive disorder, paranoid personality disorder, borderline personality disorder, and narcissistic personality disorder, attention deficit disorder, and the manic state of bipolar disorder.\n\n\nCodependency often involves placing a lower priority on one's own needs, while being excessively preoccupied with the needs of others. Codependency can occur in any type of relationship, including family, work, friendship, and also romantic, peer or community relationships.\n\nWhile a healthy relationship depends on the emotional space provided by personal boundaries, codependent personalities have difficulties in setting such limits, so that defining and protecting boundaries efficiently may be for them a vital part of regaining mental health.\n\nIn a codependent relationship, the codependent's sense of purpose is based on making extreme sacrifices to satisfy their partner's needs. Codependent relationships signify a degree of unhealthy clinginess, where one person doesn't have self-sufficiency or autonomy. One or both parties depend on the other for fulfillment. There is usually an unconscious reason for continuing to put another person's life first, often for the mistaken notion that self-worth comes from other people.\n\n\nFreud described the loss of conscious boundaries that may occur when an individual is in a unified, fast-moving crowd.\n\nAlmost a century later, Steven Pinker took up the theme of the loss of personal boundaries in a communal experience, noting that such occurrences could be triggered by intense shared ordeals like hunger, fear or pain, and that such methods were traditionally used to create liminal conditions in initiation rites. Jung had described this as the absorption of identity into the collective unconscious.\n\nRave culture has also been said to involve a dissolution of personal boundaries, and a merger into a binding sense of communality.\n\nAlso unequal relations of political and social power influence the possibilities for marking cultural boundaries and more generally the quality of life of individuals. Unequal power in personal relationships, including abusive relationships, can make it difficult for individuals to mark boundaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "1285785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1285785", "title": "Picketing", "text": "Picketing\n\nPicketing is a form of protest in which people (called picketers) congregate outside a place of work or location where an event is taking place. Often, this is done in an attempt to dissuade others from going in (\"crossing the picket line\"), but it can also be done to draw public attention to a cause. Picketers normally endeavor to be non-violent. It can have a number of aims, but is generally to put pressure on the party targeted to meet particular demands or cease operations. This pressure is achieved by harming the business through loss of customers and negative publicity, or by discouraging or preventing workers or customers from entering the site and thereby preventing the business from operating normally.\n\nPicketing is a common tactic used by trade unions during strikes, who will try to prevent dissident members of the union, members of other unions and non-unionised workers from working. Those who cross the picket line and work despite the strike are known pejoratively as scabs.\n\nInformational picketing is the legal name given to the type of picketing described above. Informational picketing, as described by Merriam-Webster's Dictionary of Law, entails picketing by a group, typically a labour or trade union, which inform the public about a matter of concern important to the union. It is a popular picketing technique for nurses to use outside of healthcare facilities. For example, on April 5, 2006 nurses of the UMass Memorial Medical Center (UMMHC) participated in two separate informational picketing events to protect the quality of their nursing program. Informational picketing was used to gain public support and promote further bargaining with management.\n\nA mass picket is an attempt to bring as many people as possible to a picket line to demonstrate support for the cause. It is primarily used when only one workplace is being picketed or for a symbolically or practically important workplace. Due to the numbers involved, a mass picket may turn into a potentially unlawful blockade.\n\nSecondary picketing is the picketing of locations that are directly connected to the issue of protest. That would include component suppliers on which the picketed business relies, retail stores that sell products by the company against which is being picketed, sister companies of the company involved in the dispute and the private homes of the company's management. In many jurisdictions, secondary pickets do not have the same civil law protection as primary pickets.\n\nAn example of this is the Battle of Saltley Gate in 1972 in Britain, when striking miners picketed a coke works in Birmingham and were later joined by thousands of workers from other industries in the local area. The tactic of secondary picketing was outlawed in the United Kingdom by the Conservative Party government of Margaret Thatcher in the mid-1980s, but the Labour opposition led by Neil Kinnock was pushing for it to be legalised in the before the 1987 general election. However, such plans had been dropped by the time Labour returned to power under Tony Blair in 1997.\n\nAnother tactic is to organise highly mobile pickets, who can turn up at any of a company's locations on short notice. These flying pickets are particularly effective against multi-facility businesses that could otherwise pursue legal prior restraint and shift operations among facilities if the location of the picket were known with certainty ahead of time. The first recorded use of flying pickets was during the 1969 miners' strike in Britain.\n\nPicketing is also used by pressure groups across the political spectrum. In particular, picketing has been employed by religious groups such as the Westboro Baptist Church that picket a variety of stores or events they consider to be sinful.\n\nDisruptive picketing is where pickets illegally use force, or the threat of force, or physical obstruction, to injure or intimidate or otherwise interfere with either staff, service users, or customers. For example, during the UK miners' strike (1984-1985), strikebreakers were pelted by pickets with stones, paint and brake fluid.\n\nIncreasingly, with the introduction of the Internet and digital photography, picketers have placed cameras at the entrances of their targets, often accompanied with written notices warning those who cross the picket line that their photographs (and, where known, their names and addresses) will be posted on the picketers' website. Their legality has been challenged in some jurisdictions on the grounds that such tactics violate privacy rights or are intended to incite later reprisals against such individuals. \n\nPicketing, as long as it does not cause obstruction to a highway or intimidation, is legal in many countries and in line with freedom of assembly laws, but many countries have restrictions on the use of picketing.\n\nLegally defined, recognitional picketing is a method of picketing that applies economic pressure to an employer with the specific goal to force the employer to recognise the issues facing employees and address them by bargaining with a union. In the US, this type of picketing, under Section 8(b) (7) (A) of the Labor Act, is typically illegal if representation is not relevant or is unquestionable.\n\nIn the UK mass picketing was made illegal under the Trade Disputes and Trade Unions Act 1927 after the 1926 General Strike. The Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992 gives protection, under civil law, for pickets who are acting in connection with an industrial dispute at or near their workplace who are using their picketing peacefully to obtain or communicate information or persuading any person to work or abstain from working. However, many employers have recently taken to gaining injunctions to limit the effect of picketing outside their work place. The granting of injunctions tends to be based on the accusation of intimidation or, in general, on non-peaceful behaviour and the claim that numbers of the picketers are not from the affected workplace.\n\nHistorically, picketing was banned by a Liberal government in the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1871 but then decriminalised by a Conservative government with the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act 1875.\n\nIn the US, any strike activity was hard to organise in the early 1900s, but picketing became more common after the Norris-LaGuardia Act of 1932, which limited the ability of employers to gain injunctions to stop strikes, and further legislation to support the right to organise for the unions. Mass picketing and secondary picketing was however outlawed by the 1947 Taft-Hartley Act. Some kinds of pickets are constitutionally protected.\n\nViewing laws against stalking as potentially inconsistent with labour rights of picketing, the first anti-stalking law of the industrial world, made by California's lawmakers, inserted provisions that disapply the law from \"normal labor picketing\", which has survived subsequent amendments.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1722782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1722782", "title": "Public sociology", "text": "Public sociology\n\nPublic sociology is a subfield of the wider sociological discipline that emphasizes expanding the disciplinary boundaries of sociology in order to engage with non-academic audiences. It is perhaps best understood as a \"style\" of sociology rather than a particular method, theory, or set of political values. Since the twenty-first century, the term has been widely associated with University of California, Berkeley sociologist Michael Burawoy, who delivered an impassioned call for a disciplinary embrace of public sociology in his 2004 American Sociological Association (ASA) presidential address. In his address, Burawoy contrasts public sociology with what he terms \"professional sociology\", a form of sociology that is concerned primarily with addressing other academic sociologists.\n\nBurawoy and other advocates of public sociology encourage the discipline to engage with issues that are of significant public and political concern. These include debates over public policy, political activism, the purposes of social movements, and the institutions of civil society. If public sociology is considered to be a \"movement\" within the discipline, it is one that aims to revitalize the discipline of sociology by leveraging its empirical methods and theoretical insights to contribute to debates not just about \"what is\" or \"what has been\" in society, but about what society \"might yet be\". Thus, many versions of public sociology have had an undeniably normative and political character—a fact that has led a significant number of sociologists to oppose the approach.\n\nThe term \"public sociology\" was first introduced by Herbert Gans in his 1988 ASA presidential address, \"Sociology in America: The Discipline and the Public\". For Gans, primary examples of public sociologists included David Riesman, author of \"The Lonely Crowd\" (one of the best-selling books of sociology ever to be written), and Robert Bellah, the lead author of another best-selling work, \"Habits of the Heart\". In 2000 (four years before Burawoy's ASA address), sociologist Ben Agger wrote the book \"Public Sociology: From Social Facts to Literary Acts,\" which called for a sociology that addressed major public issues.\n\nHowever, the Northwestern University race scholar Aldon Morris argues in his book \"The Scholar Denied: W. E. B. Du Bois and the Birth of Modern Sociology\" (2015) that W. E .B. Du Bois was practicing public sociology long before the term was incorporated into the mainstream disciplinary vocabulary, and that scientific racism prevented Du Bois' contributions from being recognized by the discipline for nearly a century.\n\nMorris argues that Du Bois built the first actual scientific department of sociology during his tenure at Atlanta University, a historically black college, predating the \"scientific revolution\" of the Chicago school (who are often credited with turning sociology into a rigorous, empirical social science). To Du Bois, robust empirical sociological research was necessary in order to emancipate American blacks from the tyrannies and oppressions built into the racist fabric of American society. Through thorough inductive research, Du Bois sought to dismantle and delegitimize social Darwinist, biological, and cultural deficiency explanations for racial inequality, which were \"not\" grounded in empirical evidence, but relied on grand deductive narratives that had no basis in scientific analysis.\n\nDu Bois and his colleagues made use of the scientific method and robust empirical inquiry with the dual goal of turning sociology into a \"real\" social science committed to empirical investigation, and using their findings to liberate, empower, and emancipate American blacks from the violence of racist oppression. Thus, long before Gans or Burawoy began emphasizing the virtues of public sociology, Du Bois had been serving a marginalized public through his scholarly research, failing to receive credit where credit was due.\n\nDebates over public sociology have rekindled questions concerning the extra-academic \"purpose\" of sociology. Public sociology raises questions about what sociology is and what its goals ought to (or even could) be. Such debates (over science and political advocacy, scholarship and public commitment) have a long history in American sociology and in American social science more generally. Historian Mark C. Smith, for instance, has investigated earlier debates over the purpose of social science in his book \"Social Science in the Crucible: The American Debate over Objectivity and Purpose,1918-1941\" (1994), while Stephen P. Turner and Jonathan H. Turner argue in their book, \"The Impossible Science: An Institutional Analysis of American Sociology\" (1990), that sociology's search for purpose, through dependence on external publics, has limited the discipline's potential.\n\nWhile there is no one definition of public sociology, the term has come to be widely associated with Burawoy's particular perspective of sociology. An excerpt from Burawoy's 2004 ASA presidential address provides a succinct summary of his understanding of the term: \"As mirror and conscience of society, sociology must define, promote and inform public debate about deepening class and racial inequalities, new gender regimes, environmental degradation, market fundamentalism, state and non-state violence. I believe that the world needs public sociology - a sociology that transcends the academy - more than ever. Our potential publics are multiple, ranging from media audiences to policy makers, from silenced minorities to social movements. They are local, global, and national. As public sociology stimulates debate in all these contexts, it inspires and revitalizes our discipline. In return, theory and research give legitimacy, direction, and substance to public sociology. Teaching is equally central to public sociology: students are our first public for they carry sociology into all walks of life. Finally, the critical imagination, exposing the gap between what is and what could be, infuses values into public sociology to remind us that the world could be different.\"Elsewhere, Burawoy has articulated a vision of public sociology that is consonant with the pursuit of democratic socialism. In \"Critical Sociology\", Burawoy writes: \"We might say that critical engagement with real utopias is today an integral part of the project of sociological socialism. It is a vision of socialism that places human society, or social humanity at its organizing center, a vision that was central to Marx but that was too often lost before it was again picked up by Gramsci and Polanyi. If public sociology is to have a progressive impact it will have to hold itself continuously accountable to some such vision of democratic socialism.\"As Mark D. Jacobs and Amy Best write, \"The mission of public sociology, in Michael Burawoy’s formulation, is to strengthen the institutions of civil society against the encroachments of both state and market.\" Indeed, Burawoy maintains that, since the last half of the twentieth century and into the twenty first, the political stance of sociology has drifted more leftward, while the all encompassing influence of neoliberalism has dragged the rest of world more rightward. In the aftermath of Reaganomics, the state and market have begun to work in collusion to propagate the ideals of market fundamentalism, replacing the state's role in redistributing resources and providing social welfare services, to one of creating economic opportunities for enterprise. In his view, this will have devastating consequences for civil society, the very subject of sociology itself, unless the discipline embraces his call to unashamedly engage with the world's diverse (and at-risk) publics to achieve some greater good, thus resisting the perverse allure of neoliberalism. One example of this can be seen in the vast increase in adjunct professors in universities and the impact that has had on the inability of professors to publish articles that would give them credence in the eyes of not only publics but also within the discipline itself.\n\nEven in the face of such adversity, many sociologists remain optimistic about the potential latent within sociology to develop an alternative paradigm to the market fundamentalism at the heart of Burawoy's critique. The sociological discipline is dynamic and ever changing, and has a long history of incorporating new theoretical and empirical insights into its analyses, often with the goal of empowering marginalized publics. Indeed, the sociology of work has evolved from processes of adaptation to the study of domination and labor movements; the concepts of stratification theory have shifted from the study of mobility within a hierarchy of occupational prestige, to the examination of changing structures of social and economic inequality along the axes of class, race and gender; the sociology of race has moved from theories of assimilation, to those of political economy, to the study of racial formations; and social theory has allowed, and introduced, more radical interpretations of canonical figures such as Max Weber, Emile Durkheim, and Karl Marx, and has incorporated \"subaltern\" subfields, such as feminism and ethnic studies, which have had a significant impact on the discipline.\n\nSociologists have not been alone in debating the public role of social science. Similar debates have occurred recently in the disciplines of economics, political science, anthropology, geography and history, and various sub-disciplines, including political ecology. In an effort to move these various disciplines \"toward a more public social science\", Craig Calhoun, the President of the Social Science Research Council, has encouraged sociologists and other social scientists to \"ask better social science questions about what encourages scientific innovation, what makes knowledge useful, and how to pursue both these agendas, with attention to both immediate needs and long-term capacities. Calhoun has also entered the debate about public sociology, critically evaluating the project of public sociology while acknowledging its specific \"promise\", and arguing that \"how sociology matters in the public sphere is vital to the future of the field\".\n\nFollowing the 2004 annual meeting of the American Sociological Association (ASA), at which Michael Burawoy's vision of public sociology was introduced during his presidential address, there has been continued interest in the topic. In recent years, numerous books and special issues have addressed public sociology, including: \nBuilding on the conversation sparked by Burawoy in 2004, the 2007 ASA meeting in New York City contained many facets of public sociology. Many of the presentations engaged directly with the public sociology debate, such as: \"Constituting a Practical Public Sociology: Reflections on Participatory Research at the Citizenship Project\" by Paul Johnston; \"A New Public Sociology of Punishment\" by Heather Schoenfeld; \"What Do Activists Want? Public Sociology for Feminist Scholars of Reproduction\" by Danielle Bessett and Christine Morton; and \"Developing a Public Sociology: From Lay Knowledge to Civic Intelligence in Health Impact Assessment\" by Eva Elliott and Gareth Williams.\n\nLambros Fatsis' doctoral thesis on public sociology, \"Making Sociology Public: A Critical Analysis of an Old Idea and a Recent Debate\", can also be recommended as a critical review of the contemporary disciplinary debate about public sociology, incorporating such developments as \"e-public sociology\" into the scholarly discussion. E-public sociology is a form of public sociology that involves publishing sociological materials in online accessible spaces and subsequent interaction with publics in these spaces.\n\nThe debate over public sociology is having far reaching consequences for how many sociology departments teach and \"do\" sociology, with several reorienting their programs to encompass elements of public sociology. For example, the sociology department at the University of Minnesota has begun advocating for sociology to claim a larger role in public life, providing \"useful, accurate, and scientifically rigorous information to policy makers and community leaders\". Similarly, the Department of Sociology and Anthropology at George Mason University began offering a doctoral degree in sociology in the fall of 2008, grounding its two specializations in Institutions and Inequalities and the Sociology of Globalization within a context of public sociological praxis.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, too, most institutions that provide undergraduate sociology degrees now advertise the public or \"applied\" nature of the curriculum (or various key modules that form part of the curriculum). Some examples here would include: Birmingham City University; Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh; Nottingham Trent University; the University of Exeter; Cardiff University; and Bishop Grosseteste University's newly established BA Sociology program.\n\nIndeed, with so many programs incorporating the ideals of public sociology into their curriculums, this will have significant consequences for how future sociologists are trained to \"do\" sociology.\n\nA significant number of those who practice sociology either as public intellectuals or as academic professionals do not subscribe to the specific version of \"public sociology\" defended by Michael Burawoy or to any version of \"public sociology\" at all. And in the wake of Burawoy's 2004 Presidency of the American Sociological Association, which put the theme of public sociology in the limelight, the project of public sociology has been vigorously debated on the web, in conversations among sociologists, and in a variety of academic journals.\n\nSpecifically, Burawoy's vision of public sociology has been critiqued both by \"critical\" sociologists and by representatives of academic sociology. These various discussions of public sociology have been included in forums devoted to the subject in academic journals such as \"Social Problems\", \"Social Forces\", \"Critical Sociology\", and the \"British Journal of Sociology\" .\n\nPublic sociology faces fierce criticism on the grounds of both of its logic and its goals. Its critics claim that it is based on a false premise of consensus in the sociological community, arguing that \"it greatly overestimates the uniformity of the moral and political agenda of sociologists\". They question the possibility and the desirability of such moral agreement, pointing out that \"almost every social issue involves moral dilemmas, not moral clarity. What is or is not 'just' is almost never unambiguous\". Others argue that public sociology is based on an uncritical and overly idealistic perception of the public sphere. Thibodeaux argues that public sociology relies on a dialectical, unilineal evolutionary view of social change. If a public sociologist assumes a multi-lineal interpretation of social change, public sociology will fail to affect social change for three reasons: (1) there's no objective criteria for the assessment of different goals (2) the rejection of one goal does not necessarily lead to an adherence to some other particular goal and (3) criticizing a goal maintains its relevance at the expense of possible alternatives.\n\nEven stronger critiques come from academics who believe that the program of public sociology will unduly politicize the discipline and thus endanger the legitimacy sociology has in the public dialogue. These critics argue that the project of building a reliable body of knowledge about society is fundamentally incompatible with the goals of public sociology: \"To the extent that we orient our work around moral principles, we are less likely to attend to theoretical issues. The greater the extent to which we favor particular outcomes, the less able are we to design our work to actually access such outcomes. And the more ideologically oriented our objectives, the less the chance that we can recognize or assimilate contrary evidence. In other words, rather than good professional sociology being mutually interactive with public sociology, I believe that public sociology gets in the way of good professional sociology.\"\n\nOne outspoken critic of public sociology was sociologist Mathieu Deflem of the University of South Carolina, who wrote various papers against public sociology and argued that public sociology:\n\n\"is neither public nor sociology. Public sociology is not a plea to make sociology more relevant to the many publics in society nor to connect sociology democratically to political activity. Of course sociologists should be public intellectuals. But they should be and can only be public intellectuals as practitioners of the science they practice, not as activists left or right. Yet public sociology instead is a quest to subsume sociology under politics, a politics of a specific kind, not in order to foster sociological activism but to narrow down the sociological discipline to activist sociology.\"\n\nIn opposition to public sociology, Deflem used to maintain the website, SaveSociology.org.\n\n\"Applied sociology\" and \"sociological practice\" (also referred to as policy sociology) has come to refer to intervention using sociological knowledge in an applied setting. Applied sociologists work in a wide variety of settings including universities, government, and private practice, using sociological methods to help communities solve everyday problems, such as improving community policing and crime prevention, evaluating and improving drug courts, assessing the needs of inner city neighborhoods, developing the capacity of an educational system, or promoting the development of housing and related resources for aging populations.\n\nSociological practice is different from pure academic sociology in which sociologists work in an academic setting such as a university with a teaching and pure research orientation. Although there are some common origins, sociological practice is entirely distinct from social work. An increasing number of universities are attempting to gear curricula toward practical sociology in this way. Clinical sociology courses give students the skills to be able to work effectively with clients, teach basic counseling skills, give knowledge that is useful for careers such as victims assisting and drug rehabilitation, and teach the student how to integrate sociological knowledge with other fields they may go into such as marriage and family therapy, and clinical social work.\n\nAs defined by the Applied Social Sciences Forum (ASSF), applied Social Science (ASS) seeks to highlight the processes of social and political transformation taking place in a particular society. It is characterized by the operational aspect of the knowledge it produces. Unlike pure academic knowledge, applied social sciences try to steer the debate towards scientific priorities of social and political reform and accompanying social transformations. From this point of view, the applied social sciences can be seen as complementary knowledge that enrich both the action and the academic sciences.\n\nThe objectives of ASS are to deepen reflection on practical issues related to their objective, to support the major decision making in society and enable researchers to support their knowledge and enrich the range of possible solutions.\n\nThe \"action research\" is the framework of choice for applied social sciences. Action research can be defined here as a process that involves further intervention by the researcher beyond the return of a single diagnostic assay type, or inventory.\n\nThe researcher may, in this way, have several hats within the same search:\n\nThe methodological tools of the SSA are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37800577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37800577", "title": "QF-EHEA", "text": "QF-EHEA\n\nQualifications Frameworks in the European Higher Education Area (QF-EHEA) are frameworks describing the higher education qualifications of countries participating in the Bologna Process. National Qualifications Frameworks (NQFs) provide a mapping between higher education qualifications and an overarching framework, allowing the cross-comparison of qualifications from different countries.\n\nThe overarching framework was adopted in May 2005 at a meeting of education ministers of the 48 participating countries. It consists of three cycles, approximately equivalent to bachelor's, master's and research doctorates (PhD-equivalent) degrees in the Anglophone world (note that US first professional degrees such as MD and JD are not PhD-equivalent, even though they are titled \"doctorates\"). A \"short cycle\" is also recognised within the first cycle, equivalent to British foundation degrees (US associate degrees).\n\nThe NQF in Spain is the \"\" (MECES) (Spanish Framework for Higher Education Qualification). This replaced the earlier system of \"diplomado\", \"licenciado\" and \"doctor\" from 2005, with a transitional period lasting until 2013. The mapping to the EHEA framework is:\n\nThe NQFs linked to the QF-EHEA are the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications (FHEQ) for England, Wales and Northern Ireland and the Framework for Qualifications of Higher Education Institutions in Scotland (FQHEIS). The FQHEIS was certified as being aligned with the QF-EHEA in 2006 and the FHEQ in 2008.\n\nThe levels on the two national frameworks, and their mapping to the QF-EHEA, are as follows:\n\nThe NFQ for Ireland is the National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ), which spans the full range of educational qualifications available. It was verified as compatible with the EHEA Framework in 2006. The NQF has the following mapping to the EHEA Framework:\n"}
{"id": "194037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194037", "title": "Raymond Carver", "text": "Raymond Carver\n\nRaymond Clevie Carver Jr. (May 25, 1938 – August 2, 1988) was an American short-story writer and poet. He was in the Iowa Writers' Workshop 1963-64. Carver was an alcoholic, stopped drinking in 1977 with the help of Alcoholics Anonymous and remained sober until he died from lung cancer 11 years later. He contributed to the revitalization of the American short story during the 1980s.\n\nCarver was born in Clatskanie, Oregon, a mill town on the Columbia River, and grew up in Yakima, Washington, the son of Ella Beatrice (née Casey) and Clevie Raymond Carver. His father, a sawmill worker from Arkansas, was a fisherman and heavy drinker. Carver's mother worked on and off as a waitress and a retail clerk. His brother, James Franklin Carver, was born in 1943.\n\nCarver was educated at local schools in Yakima, Washington. In his spare time, he read mostly novels by Mickey Spillane or publications such as \"Sports Afield\" and \"Outdoor Life\", and hunted and fished with friends and family.\n\nAfter graduating from Yakima High School in 1956, Carver worked with his father at a sawmill in California. In June 1957, at age 19, he married 16-year-old Maryann Burk, who had just graduated from a private Episcopal school for girls. Their daughter, Christine La Rae, was born in December 1957. Their second child, a boy named Vance Lindsay, was born a year later. He supported the family by working as a delivery man, janitor, library assistant, and sawmill laborer, while Maryann supported the family as administrative assistant and high school English teacher, salesperson, and waitress.\n\nCarver moved to Paradise, California with his family to be close to his mother-in-law. He became interested in writing while attending Chico State College, and enrolled in a creative writing course taught by the novelist John Gardner, then a recent doctoral graduate of the Iowa Writers' Workshop, who became a mentor and had a major influence on Carver's life and career. In 1961, Carver's first published story, \"The Furious Seasons\", appeared. More florid than his later work, the story strongly bore the influence of William Faulkner. \"Furious Seasons\" was later used as a title for a collection of stories published by Capra Press, and is part of the collection, \"No Heroics, Please\" and \"Call If You Need Me\".\n\nCarver continued his studies under the short-story writer Richard Cortez Day, like Gardner, a then recent Ph.D. alumnus of the Iowa program, at Humboldt State College in Arcata, California. He chose not to take the foreign language courses required by the English program, and received his B.A. in general studies in 1963. During this period he was first published and served as editor for \"Toyon,\" the university's literary magazine, in which he published several of his own pieces under his own name as well as the pseudonym John Vale.\n\nWith his B- average, exacerbated by his penchant to forsake coursework for literary endeavors, ballasted by a sterling recommendation from Day, Carver was accepted into the Iowa Writers' Workshop on a $1,000 fellowship for the 1963–1964 academic year. Homesick for California and unable to fully acclimate to the program's upper middle class milieu, he only completed 12 credits out of the 30 required for a M.A. degree or 60 for the M.F.A. degree. Although program director Paul Engle awarded him a fellowship for a second year of study after Maryann Carver personally interceded and compared her husband's plight to Tennessee Williams' deleterious experience in the program three decades earlier, Carver decided to leave the University of Iowa at the end of the semester. According to biographer Carol Sklenicka, Carver falsely claimed to have received an M.F.A. from Iowa in 1966 on later curricula vitae. Maryann, who postponed completing her education to support her husband's educational and literary endeavors, eventually graduated from San Jose State College in 1970 and taught English at Los Altos High School until 1977. After completing graduate work at Stanford, she briefly enrolled in the University of California, Santa Barbara's English doctoral program when Carver taught at the institution as a visiting lecturer in 1974.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Carver and his family resided in Sacramento, California, where he briefly worked at a bookstore before taking a position as a night custodian at Mercy Hospital. He did all of the janitorial work in the first hour and then wrote through the rest of his shift. He audited classes at what was then Sacramento State College, including workshops with poet Dennis Schmitz. Carver and Schmitz soon became friends, and Carver wrote and published his first book of poems, \"Near Klamath\", under Schmitz's guidance.\n\n1967 was a landmark year for Carver with the appearance of \"Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?\" in Martha Foley's annual \"Best American Short Stories\" anthology and the impending publication of \"Near Klamath\" by the English Club of Sacramento State College. He briefly enrolled in the library science graduate program at the University of Iowa that summer but returned to California following the death of his father. Shortly thereafter, the Carvers relocated to Palo Alto, California, so he could take his first white-collar job at Science Research Associates (a subsidiary of IBM in nearby Menlo Park, California), where he worked intermittently as a textbook editor and public relations director through 1970.\n\nFollowing a 1968 sojourn to Israel, the Carvers relocated to San Jose, California; as Maryann finished her undergraduate degree, he continued his graduate studies in library science at San Jose State through the end of 1969 before failing once again to take a degree. Nevertheless, he established vital literary connections with Gordon Lish who worked across the street from Carver as director of linguistic research at Behavioral Research Laboratories and the poet/publisher George Hitchcock during this period.\n\nAfter the publication of \"Neighbors\" in the June 1971 issue of \"Esquire\" at the instigation of Lish by now ensconced as the magazine's fiction editor, Carver began to teach at the University of California, Santa Cruz at the behest of provost James B. Hall, an Iowa alumnus and early mentor to Ken Kesey at the University of Oregon, commuting from his new home in Sunnyvale, California. Following a succession of failed applications, he received a $4,000 Stegner Fellowship to study in the prestigious non-degree graduate creative writing program at Stanford University during the 1972–1973 term, where he cultivated friendships with Kesey-era luminaries Ed McClanahan and Gurney Norman in addition to contemporaneous fellows Chuck Kinder, Max Crawford, and William Kittredge. The fellowship enabled the Carvers to buy a house in Cupertino, California. He took on another teaching job at the University of California, Berkeley that year and briefly rented a pied-à-terre in the city precipitated by his initiation of an extramarital affair with Diane Cecily, a University of Montana administrator and mutual friend of Kittredge, who would subsequently marry Kinder.\n\nDuring his years of working at miscellaneous jobs, rearing children, and trying to write, Carver started abusing alcohol. By his own admission, he gave up writing and took to full-time drinking. In the fall semester of 1973, Carver was a visiting lecturer in the Iowa Writers' Workshop with John Cheever, but Carver stated that they did less teaching than drinking and almost no writing. With the assistance of Kinder and Kittredge, he attempted to simultaneously commute to Berkeley and maintain his lectureship at Santa Cruz; after missing all but a handful of classes due to the inherent logistical hurdles of this arrangement and various alcohol-related illnesses, Hall gently enjoined Carver to resign his position. The next year, after leaving Iowa City, Carver went to a treatment center to attempt to overcome his alcoholism, but continued drinking for another three years.\n\nHis first short story collection, \"Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?\", was published in 1976. The collection itself was shortlisted for the National Book Award, though it sold fewer than 5,000 copies that year.\n\nThe following excerpt from Scott Driscoll's review of Maryann Burk Carver's 2006 memoir describes the decline of Maryann's and Raymond's marriage.\n\nAfter being hospitalized three times between June 1976 and February or March 1977, Carver began his \"second life\" and stopped drinking on June 2, 1977, with the help of Alcoholics Anonymous. While he continued to regularly smoke marijuana and later experimented with cocaine at the behest of Jay McInerney during a 1980 visit to New York City, Carver believed he would have died of alcoholism at the age of 40 had he not overcome his drinking.\n\nIn November 1977 Carver met the poet Tess Gallagher at a writers' conference in Dallas, Texas. Beginning in January 1979, Carver and Gallagher lived together in El Paso, Texas, in a borrowed cabin near Port Angeles, Washington, and in Tucson, Arizona. \nIn 1980, the two moved to Syracuse, New York, where Gallagher had been appointed the coordinator of the creative writing program at Syracuse University; Carver taught as a professor in the English department. He and Gallagher jointly purchased a house in Syracuse, at 832 Maryland Avenue. In ensuing years, the house became so popular that the couple had to hang a sign outside that read \"Writers At Work\" in order to be left alone. \nIn 1982, he and his first wife, Maryann, were divorced.\n\nIn 1988, six weeks prior to his death, Carver and Gallagher married in Reno, Nevada.\n\nOn August 2, 1988, Carver died in Port Angeles, Washington, from lung cancer at the age of 50. In the same year, he was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\nHe is buried at Ocean View Cemetery in Port Angeles, Washington. The inscription on his tombstone reads:\n\n<poem>\nLATE FRAGMENT\nAnd did you get what\nyou wanted from this life, even so?\nI did.\nAnd what did you want?\nTo call myself beloved, to feel myself\nbeloved on the earth.\n</poem>\n\nHis poem \"Gravy\" is also inscribed.\n\nAs Carver's will directed, Tess Gallagher assumed the management of his literary estate.\n\nCarver was nominated for the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for his third major-press collection, \"Cathedral\" (1984), the volume generally perceived as his best. Included in the collection are the award-winning stories \"A Small, Good Thing\", and \"Where I'm Calling From\". John Updike selected the latter for inclusion in \"The Best American Short Stories of the Century.\" For his part, Carver perceived \"Cathedral\" as a watershed in his career for its shift toward a more optimistic and confidently poetic style amid the diminution of Lish's literary influence.\nCarver won five O. Henry Awards with \"Are These Actual Miles\" (originally titled \"What Is It?\") (1972), \"Put Yourself in My Shoes\" (1974), \"Are You A Doctor?\" (1975), \"A Small, Good Thing\" (1983), and \"Errand\" (1988).\n\nIn Carver's birth town of Clatskanie, Oregon, a memorial park and statue are at the corner of Lillich and Nehalem Streets, across from the library. A block away is the building where Carver was born.\n\nIn December 2006, Gallagher published an essay in \"The Sun magazine\", titled \"Instead of Dying\", about alcoholism and Carver's having maintained his sobriety. The essay is an adaptation of a talk she initially delivered at the Welsh Academy's Academi Intoxication Conference in 2006. The first lines read: \"Instead of dying from alcohol, Raymond Carver chose to live. I would meet him five months after this choice, so I never knew the Ray who drank, except by report and through the characters and actions of his stories and poems.\"\n\nChuck Kinder's \"Honeymooners: A Cautionary Tale\" (2001) is a roman à clef about his friendship with Carver in the 1970s. Carver's high school sweetheart and first wife, Maryann Burk Carver, wrote a memoir of her years with Carver, \"What it Used to be Like: A Portrait of My Marriage to Raymond Carver\" (2006).\n\nIn 2009, \"The New York Times Book Review\" and \"San Francisco Chronicle\" named Carol Sklenicka's unauthorized biography, \"Raymond Carver: A Writer's Life\" (2009), published by Scribner, one of the Best Ten Books of that year; and the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" deemed it: \"exhaustively researched and definitive biography\". Carver's widow, Tess Gallagher, refused to engage with Sklenicka.\n\nHis final (incomplete) collection of seven stories, titled \"Elephant\" in Britain (included in \"Where I'm Calling From\") was composed in the five years before his death. The nature of these stories, especially \"Errand\", have led to some speculation that Carver was preparing to write a novel. Only one piece of this work has survived – the fragment \"The Augustine Notebooks\", first printed in \"No Heroics, Please\".\n\nTess Gallagher fought with Knopf for permission to republish the stories in \"What We Talk About When We Talk About Love\" as they were originally written by Carver, as opposed to the heavily edited and altered versions that appeared in 1981 under the editorship of Gordon Lish. On October 1, 2009 the book, entitled \"Beginners\", was released in hardback in Great Britain, followed by its publication in the Library of America edition which collected all of Carver's short fiction in a single volume.\n\nCarver's career was dedicated to short stories and poetry. He described himself as \"inclined toward brevity and intensity\" and \"hooked on writing short stories\" (in the foreword of \"Where I'm Calling From\", a collection published in 1988 and a recipient of an honorable mention in the 2006 \"New York Times\" article citing the best works of fiction of the previous 25 years). Another stated reason for his brevity was \"that the story [or poem] can be written and read in one sitting.\" This was not simply a preference but, particularly at the beginning of his career, a practical consideration as he juggled writing with work. His subject matter was often focused on blue-collar experience, and was clearly reflective of his own life.\n\nCharacteristics of minimalism are generally seen as one of the hallmarks of Carver's work, although, as reviewer David Wiegand notes:\n\nCarver never thought of himself as a minimalist or in any category, for that matter.\n\n\"He rejected categories generally,\" Sklenicka says. \"I don't think he had an abstract mind at all. He just wasn't built that way, which is why he's so good at picking the right details that will stand for many things.\"\n\nCarver's editor at \"Esquire\", Gordon Lish, was instrumental in shaping his prose in this direction – where his earlier tutor John Gardner had advised Carver to use fifteen words instead of twenty-five, Lish instructed Carver to use five in place of fifteen. Objecting to the \"surgical amputation and transplantation\" of Lish's heavy editing, Carver eventually broke with him. During this time, Carver also submitted poetry to James Dickey, then poetry editor of \"Esquire\".\n\nCarver's style has also been described as dirty realism, which connected him with a group of writers in the 1970s and 1980s that included Richard Ford and Tobias Wolff with both of whom Carver was closely acquainted, as well as others such as Ann Beattie, Frederick Barthelme, and Jayne Anne Phillips. With the exception of Beattie, who wrote about upper-middle-class people, these were writers who focused on sadness and loss in the everyday lives of ordinary people—often lower-middle class or isolated and marginalized people.\n\nIn his essay \"On Influence\", Carver states that, while he was an admirer of Ernest Hemingway's fiction, he never saw him as an influence, citing instead the work of Lawrence Durrell.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24517906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24517906", "title": "Ryman Arts", "text": "Ryman Arts\n\nRyman Arts is a non-profit fine arts education organization that is based in Los Angeles, California. Ryman Arts was co-founded in 1990 as the Ryman-Carroll Foundation by Leah and Martin Sklar, Ann and Buzz Price, Walt Disney's daughter Sharon Disney Lund, and Lucille Ryman Carroll, to honor Herbert Ryman. The organization provides free art classes in drawing and painting with master teachers to Los Angeles area high school students. It began with 12 students and by 2007 the program had expanded to include roughly 300 students from 80 Los Angeles-area high schools. Classes are held on Sundays at the Otis College of Art and Design and on Saturdays at Cal-State Fullerton. There are classes in the mornings and afternoons, each lasting 3.5 hours. The courses offered are Beginning Drawing, Intermediate Drawing with intro. to Watercolor painting, and Advanced Painting. The organization is supported by the National Endowment for the Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "34909429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34909429", "title": "Socio-scientific issues", "text": "Socio-scientific issues\n\nSocioscientific Issues (SSI) are controversial social issues which relate to science. They are ill-structured, open-ended problems which have multiple solutions.\n\nSSI are utilized in science education in order to promote scientific literacy, which emphasizes the ability to apply scientific and moral reasoning to real-world situations. Some examples of SSI include issues such as genetic engineering, climate change, animal testing for medical purposes, oil drilling in national parks, and \"fat taxes\" on \"unhealthy\" foods, among many others. Research studies have shown SSI to be effective at increasing students' understanding of science in various contexts, argumentation skills, empathy, and moral reasoning.\n\nSupporters of SSI argue that it can:\nevaluation, interpretation, and self-regulation Science educators often refer to all of these aspects together as,\"functional scientific literacy.\"\n\nScientific literacy has been defined by two competing visions. A Vision I approach to scientific literacy is characterized by content-driven, decontextualized science knowledge. A Vision II approach to scientific literacy is a context-driven, student-centered approach which seeks to prepare students for informed civic engagement. The SSI framework follows a Vision II approach as it is believed to provide an opportunity for contextualized learning of science content as well as an opportunity for moral development.\n\nSSI is conceptually related to Science, Technology, and Society (STS) education. However, while both approaches connect science to societal issues, SSI is distinguished from STS because of its emphasis on the development of character and virtue as well as content knowledge.\n\nResearch suggests that SSI creates cognitive dissonance by compelling students to consider claims that may be at odds with their own beliefs and values. Dissonance of this nature is believed by some to advance moral reasoning by ‘empowering students to consider how science based issues and the decisions made concerning them reflect, in part, the moral principles and qualities of virtue that encompass their own lives, as well as the physical and social world around them.'\n\nSSI education has been empirically investigated and linked to particular outcomes including:\n• Promoting developmental changes in reflective judgment;\n• Moving students to more informed views of the nature of science;\n• Increasing moral sensitivity and empathy;\n• Increasing conceptual understanding of scientific content;• Increase students’ ability to transfer concepts and scaffold ideas;\n• Revealing and reconstructing alternative perceptions of science;\n• Facilitating moral reasoning;\n• Improve argumentation skills;\n• Promote understanding of eco-justice and environmental awareness; and\n• Engage students’ interest in the inquiry of science.\n\nMore recently, SSI research has been focused on cross-cultural comparisons and research has reflected international partnerships. It has been hypothesized by some that more advanced stages of epistemological reasoning allows individuals to apply a kind of socioscientific reasoning (SSR) akin to scientific habits of mind. SSR is a theoretical construct that entails the ability to tap key traits while negotiating SSI. These include skepticism, complexity, multiple perspective and inquiry.\n\nTeachers utilize SSI to foster understanding of science content and consequences involved in everyday scientific issues. For example, in a study of ecology, an elementary class might consider whether pesticides confer more benefit or harm to our ecosystem. This type of analysis would require students to research the interractions between organisms in food webs and food chains, as well as the human impacts of pesticides. Students could make evidence-based decisions and discuss them through various means including whole-class discussions, debates, online discussion boards, etc... Similarly, older grades might consider issues such as whether genetic engineering should be used to treat genetic diseases.\n\nThis type of analysis would require extensive study of genetics and modern genetic engineering techniques, as well as the ethical issues involved in personal freedoms, religious prohibitions on intervention, and so on. Advocates suggest that, through evidence-based discourse, students learn to formulate their own informed decisions and understand those whose views differ from themselves. An essential aspect of the implementation of SSI is that the teacher is not promoting any particular belief; rather, the teacher's role is to promote evidence-based critical thinking and argumentation.\n"}
{"id": "26126189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26126189", "title": "Strong Women Strong Girls", "text": "Strong Women Strong Girls\n\nStrong Women Strong Girls (SWSG) is a mentoring organization for girls in grades 3-5 and with the goal of helping them to develop skills for lifelong success.\nCollege women, who are trained as mentors, engage small groups of participating girls during after school hours. Each week the girls and their mentors utilize a research-based curriculum that incorporates the study of contemporary and historic female role models, skill-building activities, and strong relationships with mentors and peers.\n\nLindsay Hyde began Strong Women Strong Girls in Miami, Florida during her senior year of high school. In 2000 she left for college and launched the program as a student group at Harvard University. The mentoring began with six college-age women serving as mentors in two elementary schools.\n\nThe program quickly expanded throughout the greater Boston, MA area. In 2004, SWSG was incorporated as a non-profit organization and named Lindsay Hyde as the organization’s executive director. In 2006, SWSG launched programming in its first expansion community of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 2009, Strong Women Strong Girls returned to where it started, launching its second expansion site in Miami, Florida. Currently Strong Women, Strong Girls is partnered with 12 universities and college and engages over 500 college mentors in mentoring almost 1,350 elementary school girls at 90 different elementary school and community center partner sites.\n\nIn August 2014, SWSG announced a renewed investment focusing on their existing communities of Pittsburgh and Boston.\n\nCurrently, SWSG engages close to 300 mentors from six university and college partners: Boston College, Harvard University, Northeastern University, Simmons College,UMass Boston and Tufts University. They mentor almost 800 girls at 58 different sites.\n\nCurrently, SWSG is partnered with six universities and colleges in Pittsburgh: Carlow University, Carnegie Mellon University, Duquesne University, Point Park University, Robert Morris University and the University of Pittsburgh. Two-hundred and twenty mentors mentor over 600 girls at 32 different elementary school and community center partner sites.\n\nSWSG engaged over 30 college women from two universities and colleges, Florida International University and Miami Dade College, as mentors in Miami. They mentored 150 girls at 13 different sites.\n\nEvery year, Strong Women Strong Girls hosts a fundraiser and year end celebration called Jump Into Spring. Jump into Spring brings together girls, community partners, and supports from around from all the different sites to jump rope at the same time. The events purpose is three-fold:\n\nIn 2009, Boston and Pittsburgh hosted Jump Into Spring events. Each site had over 300 girls, community members, and supporters in attendance. As a result, the events raised over $100,000 in in-kind and donation support. The next Jump Into Spring will be on April 10, 2010 in all three cities SWSG is currently in. The event will be simulated between all three cities thus having all the girls jumping rope at the same time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27725424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27725424", "title": "Tallinn University of Applied Sciences", "text": "Tallinn University of Applied Sciences\n\nTallinn University of Applied Sciences (; TTK) is a vocational university in Tallinn, Estonia, founded in 1992. It provides higher education in the field of engineering.\n\nTallinn College of Engineering is a legal successor to the Tallinn Technical Secondary School for Building and Mechanics established in 1962, that itself was built upon the Tallinn Commercial School for Boys, founded in 1915.\n\nUniversity has 6 institutes: Institute of Architecture, Institute of Circular Economy and Technology, Institute of Clothing and Textile, Institute of Civil Engineering, Institute of Logistics, and Institute of Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "42877765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42877765", "title": "Undergraduate education at University of Oxford", "text": "Undergraduate education at University of Oxford\n\nThe undergraduate education at the University of Oxford in England involves weekly tutorials at the colleges and halls, supported by classes, lectures and laboratory work provided by university faculties and departments.\n\nHistorically, it was common for boys to become members of the university between the ages of 14 and 19. Today, as at other UK universities, the majority of students commence undergraduate courses aged 18, though 17 or 19 is common. However, there are no limits on the age of those admitted (except for at Harris Manchester College which caters only for students aged 21 or over). Much younger people are still occasionally given places if they are of the required standard, for example Ruth Lawrence matriculated age 12 in 1983,\n\nIn common with most British universities, prospective students apply through the UCAS application system; but, prospective applicants for the University of Oxford, along with those for medicine, dentistry, and University of Cambridge applicants, must observe an earlier deadline of 15 October.\n\nTo allow a more personalised judgement of students, who might otherwise apply for both, undergraduate applicants are not permitted to apply to both Oxford and Cambridge in the same year. The only exceptions are applicants for Organ Scholarships and those applying to read for a second undergraduate degree.\n\nStudents from all backgrounds are encouraged to apply, with \"contextual data\" (factors that may have influenced prior exam performance) taken into account during the admission procedure. The university believes that there are many potential students from less well-off backgrounds whom the university cannot admit simply because they do not apply.\n\nMost applicants choose to apply to one of the individual colleges, which work with each other to ensure that the best students gain a place somewhere at the University regardless of their college preferences. Shortlisting is based on achieved and predicted exam results; school references; and, in some subjects, written admission tests or candidate-submitted written work. Approximately 60% of applicants are shortlisted, although this varies by subject. If a large number of shortlisted applicants for a subject choose one college, then students who named that college may be reallocated randomly to under-subscribed colleges for the subject. The colleges then invite shortlisted candidates for interview, where they are provided with food and accommodation for around three days in December. Most applicants will be individually interviewed by academics at more than one college. Students from outside Europe can be interviewed remotely, for example, over the Internet.\n\nIn 2007, the colleges, faculties and departments published a \"common framework\" outlining the principles and procedures they observe.\n\nOffers are sent out shortly before Christmas (exceptionally, in early January for the 2012-13 admissions round), with an offer usually being from a specific college. One in four successful candidates receive offers from a college that they did not apply to. Some courses may make \"open offers\" to some candidates, who are not assigned to a particular college until A Level results day in August.\n\nThe University states that its admissions policies avoid bias against candidates of certain socioeconomic or educational backgrounds. However, the fairness of Oxford admissions has attracted public controversy through episodes such as the Laura Spence Affair in 2000. Gaining places at Oxford and Cambridge remains a central focus for many private and selective state schools — much more so than most state schools — and the fact that the social make-up of undergraduates at the university differs substantially from the social make-up of society at large remains controversial.\n\nIn 2007, the university refined its admissions procedure to take into account the academic performance of its applicants' schools.\nStudents who apply from state schools and colleges have an acceptance rate broadly comparable to those from independent schools (19% and 24% of applicants accepted respectively, 2010). More than half of applications come from the state sector, and the University of Oxford funds many initiatives to attract applicants from this sector, including the UNIQ Summer Schools, Oxford Young Ambassadors, Target Schools, and the FE Access Initiative. Regarding the UNIQ Summer School, of all the UNIQ students who went on to make applications in autumn 2010 to enter the university in 2011/12, 39 per cent ended up with places. The overall success rate for Oxford applicants is around 20 per cent. Most colleges also run their own access schemes and initiatives.\n\nThe Oxford Admissions Study was a research project set up to investigate access issues, in which data were collected on 2,000 students who applied to the university in 2002, including exam results from the universities they went on to attend. A number of reports were published based on these data. It was found that, if anything, admissions tutors treat applicants from state schools more favourably than applicants from private schools with the same attainment. The research also suggested that this discounting was justified as private school students need higher grades at entry to do as well as their state school educated peers in final university examinations. It was found that cultural knowledge beyond the school curriculum, linked highly to reading habits, was a good indicator for whether arts subjects would gain a place. Contrastingly, participation in cultural activities such as visiting museums, art galleries, classical concerts, and ballet made no difference.\n\nVeiled accusations of racism regarding the 2009 intake were dismissed on the grounds that ethnic minority applicants apply disproportionately more to the most competitive courses, and that black candidates had lower A-level scores nationally. However, further analysis of entrance figures for 2010 and 2011 by \"The Guardian\" reported what was termed an \"institutional bias\" in favour of white candidates; ethnic minority candidates had significantly lower success rates in individual subjects even when they had the same grades as white candidates. In medicine, for instance, ethnic minority applicants who went on to score three A* grades at A level were almost half as likely to gain admission as white applicants with similar grades.\n\nUndergraduate teaching is centred on the tutorial, where 1–4 students spend an hour with an academic discussing their week’s work, usually an essay (humanities, most social sciences, some mathematical, physical, and life sciences) or problem sheet (most mathematical, physical, and life sciences, and some social sciences). Students usually have one or two tutorials a week, and can be taught by academics at any other college—not just their own—as expertise and personnel require. These tutorials are complemented by lectures, classes and seminars, which are organised on a departmental basis. Graduate students undertaking taught degrees are usually instructed through classes and seminars, though there is more focus upon individual research.\n\nThe university itself is responsible for conducting examinations and conferring degrees. The passing of two sets of examinations is a prerequisite for a first degree. The first set of examinations, called either Honour Moderations (\"Mods\" and \"Honour Mods\") or Preliminary Examinations (\"Prelims\"), are usually held at the end of the first year (after two terms for those studying Law; Theology; Philosophy and Theology; Experimental Psychology; or Psychology, Philosophy and Physiology or after five terms in the case of Classics). The second set of examinations, the Final Honour School (\"Finals\"), is held at the end of the undergraduate course (for humanities and most social sciences) or at the end of each successive year of the course after the first (most mathematical, physical and life sciences, and some social sciences). Successful candidates receive first-, upper or lower second-, or third-class honours, or simply a \"pass\" without honours, based on their performance in Finals. An upper second is the most usual result, and a first is often prerequisite for graduate study. A \"double first\" reflects first-class results in both Honour Moderations and Finals.\n\nAs a matter of tradition, bachelor's degree graduates are eligible, after seven years from matriculation (formal induction of students into the university) and without additional study, to purchase for a nominal fee an upgrade of their bachelor's degree to an \"MA\" or Master of Arts. All MAs were members of Convocation; and, until 1913, all resident members of Convocation were members of Congregation. MAs, as members of Convocation, elected the Chancellor and Professor of Poetry, but recently Convocation has been widened to consist of all graduates.\n\nUndergraduate teaching takes place during three eight week terms: Michaelmas Term, Hilary Term and Trinity Term. (These are officially known as 'Full Term', 'Term' is a lengthier period with little practical significance.) Internally, the weeks in a term begin on Sundays, and are referred to numerically, with the initial week known as \"first week\", the last as \"eighth week\" and with the numbering extended to refer to weeks before and after term (for example \"-1st week\" and \"0th week\" precede term). Undergraduates must be in residence from Thursday of 0th week. These teaching terms are shorter than those of most other British universities, and their total duration amounts to less than half the year. However, undergraduates are also expected to do some academic work during the three holidays (known as the Christmas, Easter, and Long Vacations).\n"}
{"id": "24823128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24823128", "title": "Vladimir Miklyukov", "text": "Vladimir Miklyukov\n\nVladimir Michaelovich Miklyukov (, also spelled Miklioukov or Mikljukov) (8 January 1944 – October 2013) was a Russian educator in mathematics, and head of the Superslow Process workgroup based at Volgograd State University.\n\nIn 1970, as a student of at Donetsk National University, he defended his Ph.D. thesis \"Theory of Quasiconformal Mappings in Space\". In 1981 Miklyukov and his family moved to Volgograd. He was transferred to the newly built Volgograd State University where he became chairman of the Department of Mathematical Analysis and Theory of Functions.\n\nHis scientific research focused on geometrical analysis. At the same time, he was studying zero mean curvature surfaces in Euclidean and pseudo-Euclidean spaces, nonlinear elliptic type partial differential equations and quasiregular mappings of Riemannian manifolds. The main results of that work were related to the following groups of questions:\n\nFrom 1998-2000 Miklyukov was a visiting professor at Brigham Young University. In 2004 he concentrated on studying of the mathematical theory of superslow processes and differential forms in micro- and nanoflows, and founded the Laboratory of Superslow Processes. In 2009 Miklyukov was named a Distinguished Scientist of Russian Federation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5587038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5587038", "title": "William Winn", "text": "William Winn\n\nWilliam David \"Bill\" Winn (1945–2006) was an American educational psychologist, and professor at the University of Washington College of Education, known for his work on how people learn from diagrams, and on how cognitive and constructivist theories of learning can help instructional designers select effective teaching strategies.\n\nSpecializing first in French and German languages and comparative literature, Winn earned a BA and MA from Oxford University and an MA from Indiana University. He earned a PhD from Indiana University (1972) in Instructional Systems Technology (minor educational psychology) for research on instructional message design. His doctoral dissertation was on the \"Similarity of Hierarchically Organized Pairs of Pictures and Words as Reported by Field-Dependent and Field-Independent High-School Seniors\".\n\nIn 1972 Winn started his academic career as assistant professor in the Department of Pedagogy, Faculty of Education, at the Université de Sherbrooke. From 1974 to 1985, he was the academic coordinator of the Learning Technology Unit at the University of Calgary. Eventually, Winn was appointed professor at the University of Washington College of Education where he held appointments in curriculum and instruction, and cognitive studies. He was also director of the Learning Center at the Human Interface Technology Lab (HITLab), and adjunct professor in the College of Engineering, and the Music department.\n\nWinn was the editor of \"Educational Communication and Technology Journal\", and served on the editorial review boards of many other journals in the fields of educational psychology and educational technology.\n\nWinn's areas of teaching and research included instructional theory, design of computer-based learning, instructional effects of illustrations, theories of visual perception applied to instructional materials design, computer interfaces, and the roles and effectiveness of virtual environments in education and training. This work extended cognitive theories of learning into systems dynamics models of cognition and cognitive neuroscience.\n\nWinn collaborated broadly across disciplines and national boundaries, presenting papers in French, German and English. In addition to teaching, extensive graduate advising activities, and a prolific writing schedule, at the time of his death he was working on research with the Puget Sound Marine Environment Modeling Group, augmented reality and physical models of complex organic molecules, INFACT/PixelMath, and collaborating with PRISM and the Center for Environmental Visualization.\n\nWinn was very interested in computer-based learning for being a method that allows students to obtain information in formats that cannot be presented by teachers and because it gives the students control of the information. He acknowledged that computer-based learning follows a constructivist learning approach because students construct understandings for themselves by interacting with the material they encounter.\n\nWinn also focused his research in constructing virtual learning environments which are computer created environments intended to simulate realistic experiences in order to help students understand concepts presented in those environments. For example, Winn explained “that the act of designing and creating environments that embody concepts and principles governing phenomena as diverse as wetlands ecology and medieval castles helps students master these topics with depth and clarity”. He also found that virtual learning has greater success for students who do poorly in school. However, teaching through virtual environments also has its weaknesses. Winn declared that this method of learning often result in misconceptions due to oversimplifying the interactions that occur in the natural environments which are simulated. Additionally, problems in the transfer of knowledge are seen in younger students who lack the ability to think abstractly. These children have a difficulty transferring what they learn in the virtual world to other areas in the real world.\n\nThis is an example of one of the studies conducted by Winn in which he evaluated the difference of learning in a computer-based environment as opposed to learning through direct experience. In this study, two groups of college students learned oceanography. One group learned using a computer simulation of the ocean which included a three-dimensional (3D) model, and the other group learned by spending a day in a research vessel and used oceanographic tools. In his discussion of this study Winn makes reference to Kolb’s experiential learning theory because it highlights the significance of direct experience with the environment, as well as the need for abstract concepts in order to learn and apply knowledge. According to Winn, the proper use of metaphors in simulations may allow students to learn abstract concepts better than they would in real experiences. This study took place in Seattle and was focused on the oceanography of the Puget Sound estuary system within Washington. There were 25 students in each group and both groups received a total of three lessons. Two of the lessons were taught by the same professors and covered the same material. For the third lesson the groups were separated to their different settings. One of the limitations of this study was that the students taking the “Virtual Puget Sound” (VPS) experience could only control some independent variables but not others, like for example they could not change the salinity of the water. The results of the study showed “no difference in overall learning between students who used the VPS simulation and those who studied the same material in the field”. However, the study found that students with less experience in water learned more from direct experience, while the simulated ocean experience helped students transfer the knowledge they obtained while working in the computer, to the material presented in class.\n\nAfter reading Winn’s article titled \"Current trends in educational technology research: The study of learning environments\" published in 2002, the educational psychologist Richard Mayer (2003) criticized Winn’s article for dismissing controlled experiments and in this way dismissing an approach that would produce substantial evidence and enable researchers to make claims on the learning development of students. In response to Mayer’s criticism, Winn confirmed that experimental research is important, and he proposed that researchers use a system that connects evidence from both experimental and non-experimental research when conducting their studies since each method produces different information. Controlled experimental research is useful for obtaining details about student learning, and non-experimental research allows the researcher to see how learning occurs in real settings.\n\nAs part of his response to Mayer’s criticism, Winn articulates that a good non-experimental method for researchers to use is the “design experiment” which was described by Ann Brown in 1992. Winn prefers this type of experiment particularly because it conveys many features of open ended research methods. In a design experiment, the researcher tests his or her intervention in an educational setting such as a classroom, makes modifications depending on the data collected, and conducts the intervention until it produces good results. The data collected is in form of observations, results from tests, or any form of work that will show that the student has learned what is expected. Compared to a controlled experiment in which many variables are controlled, in the design experiment, modifications are made over time. Winn explained that a key difference between the two types of experiments is that “the controlled experiment adapts the setting to suit the intervention through experimental control, whereas the design experiment adapts the intervention to suit the setting through iteration”. Although Winn is in favor of design experiments he does note one of its weaknesses. This type of non-experimental research involves more time and skill than implementing experimental research. However, it can yield crucial evidence about the success of interventions and how students learn.\n\nWinn made significant contributions to the field of educational technology as evident by his extensive research in this area. The following is a list of eight suggestions provided by Winn (2002) for those researchers who are also working in this field, or for future researchers. This list provides useful information on how practitioners can reduce factors that may disrupt research findings and thus assist in improving educational technology research.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "1226439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1226439", "title": "Wolfgang von Trips", "text": "Wolfgang von Trips\n\nWolfgang Alexander Albert Eduard Maximilian Reichsgraf Berghe von Trips (4 May 1928 – 10 September 1961), also known simply as Wolfgang von Trips and nicknamed 'Taffy' by friends and fellow racers, was a German racing driver. He was the son of a noble Rhineland family.\n\nVon Trips was born in Cologne, Germany. He had diabetes during his career and he always had high sugar snacks during the races to compensate for his low blood sugar levels.\n\nHe participated in 29 Formula One World Championship Grand Prix races, debuting on 2 September 1956. He won two races, secured one pole position, achieved six podiums, and scored a total of 56 championship points.\n\nHe sustained a concussion when he spun off track at the Nürburgring during trial runs for a sports car race held in May 1957. His Ferrari was destroyed. It was the only one of its marque to be entered in the Gran Turismo car class of more than 1600 cc. Von Trips was forced out of a Royal Automobile Club Grand Prix at Silverstone, in July 1958, when his Ferrari came into the pits on the 60th lap with no oil. The following August he was fifth at Porto in the 1958 Portuguese Grand Prix, which was won by Stirling Moss in a Vanwall. Von Trips completed 49 laps and was one lap behind at the finish. Moss was more than five minutes ahead of Mike Hawthorn, who finished second in a Ferrari.\n\nIn July 1960 von Trips was victorious in a Formula Two event in a Ferrari, with a newly introduced engine in the rear. The race was in Stuttgart and was called the Solitude Formula Two Grand Prix. It was a 20-lap event with the winner averaging over . He won the Targa Florio, 10-lap race, in May 1961. Von Trips achieved an average speed of in his Ferrari with Olivier Gendebien of Belgium\nas his co-driver. Von Trips and Phil Hill traded the lead at Spa, Belgium during the 1961 Belgian Grand Prix, in June 1961. Hill led most of the way in front of a crowd of 100,000 people.\n\nFerraris captured the first four places at the race conclusion with von Trips finishing second. The Formula One World Championship driver competition at this juncture in 1961 was led by Hill with 19 points followed by von Trips with 18.\n\nThe 1961 Italian Grand Prix on 10 September saw von Trips tightly locked in the battle Formula One World Drivers' Championship that year with his teammate Phil Hill. During the race at Monza, his Ferrari collided with Jim Clark's Lotus. His car became airborne and crashed into a side barrier, fatally throwing von Trips from the car, and killing fifteen spectators.\n\nClark described the accident, saying:\n\n\"Von Trips and I were racing along the straightaway and were nearing one of the banked curves, the one on the southern end. We were about 100 metres from the beginning of the curve. Von Trips was running close to the inside of the track. I was closely following him, keeping near the outside. At one point Von Trips shifted sideways so that my front wheels collided with his back wheels. It was the fatal moment. Von Trips's car spun twice and went into the guardrail along the inside of the track. Then it bounced back, struck my own car and bounced down into the crowd.\"\n\nMovie footage of the crash that surfaced after the race showed that Clark's memory of the incident was inaccurate: after colliding with Clark, von Trips's car rode directly up an embankment on the outside of the track and struck a fence behind which spectators were closely packed.\n\nAt the time of his death von Trips was leading the Formula One World Championship. He had previous incidents at the Autodromo Nazionale Monza, where he crashed cars in the 1956 Italian Grand Prix and the 1958 Italian Grand Prix, and was injured in both events.\n\nIn 1961 von Trips established a go-kart race track in Kerpen, Germany. The track was later leased by Rolf Schumacher, whose sons, Michael and Ralf, made their first laps there. Coincidentally, Michael's win in the 1992 Belgian Grand Prix was the first full-length Grand Prix won by a German since von Trips's last win at Aintree in 1961.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21138276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21138276", "title": "Writing across the curriculum", "text": "Writing across the curriculum\n\nWriting across the curriculum (WAC) is a movement within contemporary composition studies that concerns itself with writing in classes outside of composition, literature, and other English courses. According to a comprehensive survey performed in 2006–2007, approximately half of American institutes of higher learning have something that can be identified as a WAC program.\n\nThis page principally concerns itself with WAC in American colleges and universities. WAC has also been important in Britain, but primarily at the K–12 level.\n\nDavid Russell traces the history of WAC in the United States to the 1870s, the emergence of professional disciplines, and the new need for college-level instruction in writing. Prior to this era, college students were exclusively (for all practical considerations) affluent white men whose natural discourse was identical to the approved discourse of the academy; therefore, their way of speaking and writing was already considered appropriate by and for the academy and composition didn't need to be taught at the college level. Two changes happened to motivate the need for college writing instruction. Firstly, as disciplines (as divisions within academic studies) and contemporary professions specialized, they developed their own specialized discourses. Because these discourses were not merely the same as the everyday discourse of the upper classes, they had to be taught. Secondly, as college students became more diverse – first in terms of social background and, later, in terms of gender, race, and age – not all college students grew up speaking the accepted language of the academy.\n\nClearly, composition courses couldn't be about the content of the writing, because content was what the other disciplines taught. Composition, therefore, had to be about the form the writing took and so \"writing\" was reduced to mechanics and style. Because of this reduced focus and because writing was addressed by composition, other disciplines assumed no responsibility for writing instruction; most students, then, were not taught to write in the context of their specialties. As American education became increasingly skills-oriented following World War II – in part a reaction to the suffusion of universities with war veterans in need of job training, in part a result of modeling education after the efficiency of Fordian factory production – writing instruction was further reduced to a set of skills to be mastered. Once correct (that is, standard academic) grammar, punctuation, spelling, and style were mastered – preferably before reaching the post-secondary level – there was no need for additional writing instruction save as remedial education.\n\nThis product-oriented, skills-focused paradigm of writing pedagogy began to change in the 1970s with the popularization of James Britton and colleagues' expressivist school of composition, which said that students benefited from writing as a tool for self-expression and that focusing on technical correctness was damaging. Janet Emig's 1977 article \"Writing as a Mode of Learning,\" grounded in constructivist theories of education, suggested that writing functioned as a unique and invaluable way for students to understand and integrate information. Simultaneously, widespread media attention around college students' apparently decreasing writing proficiency (more a product of the changing demographics of college students than an overt shift in teaching) provoked institutions of higher learning to reevaluate and increase the amount of writing required of students. Carleton College and Beaver College began what were probably the first contemporary WAC programs in 1974 and 1975, respectively, with faculty workshops and writing requirements shared across disciplines.\n\nIn 2010, Thaiss and Porter defined WAC as \"a program or initiative used to 'assist teachers across disciplines in using student writing as an instructional tool in their teaching'\". WAC, then, emerged as and remains a way to bring writing back to disciplines which had become accustomed to assigning relatively little of it. WAC has also been part of the student-centered pedagogies movement (student-centred learning) seeking to replace teaching via one-way transmission of knowledge from teacher to student with more interactive strategies that enable students to interact with and participate in creating knowledge in the classroom.\n\nWAC efforts are usually driven principally by one of two theories: writing to learn or on learning to write in disciplinary discourses, sometimes also called writing in the disciplines. Though both may be used together, one of the two theories generally guides any given writing assignment and, often, any given WAC course.\n\nWriting to learn is also occasionally referred to as the expressivist or cognitive mode of WAC. Writing to learn supports the use of mostly informal, often ungraded writing exercises to help students understand course content in non-English disciplines. Writing to learn assumes that being able to explain or express concepts in one's own words both builds and reflects understanding. Because the goal of writing to learn exercises is learning rather than a finished writing product, instructors are discouraged from paying attention to grammar and surface mechanics. The student himself or herself, not the teacher, is the audience. Common writing to learn exercises include reading responses, journals, free writing, and multiple forms of collaborative writing.\n\nWriting in the disciplines is also occasionally referred to as the transactional or rhetorical mode of WAC. Writing in the Disciplines (WID) teaches students how to write acceptably in their respective disciplines. Writing in the Disciplines classes teach students to learn to write texts that they will apply in their scholarly and professional lives. Although WID and WAC are correlated, WID emphasizes disciplinary orientation. The students’ participation in their majors enlists the students in discourse communities, which are social groups that communicate, at least in part, via written texts and share common goals, values, and writing standards. These writing standards include but are not limited to specialized vocabularies and particular genres. The goal of WID is to allow students to demonstrate writing skills within the genres expected in academic and professional discourse communities.\n\nWriting in the discipline courses are commonly referred to as Writing Intensive courses(WI). Writing Intensive courses were developed for two reasons: 1) Students' writing skills would decrease if not consistently reinforced. 2) Students' writing improves significantly when they write involving their major. The controversy surrounding WID is who holds responsibility for teaching WID courses. The different models for teaching WID classes are the following: 1) The English department faculty teaches writing courses focused on individual disciplines. 2) English departments and other discipline departments collaborate on instructing writing courses for particular majors. 3) Individual faculty of respective disciplines teach writing for their respective disciplines. Scholars agree that each university decides which model works best for their institution. The University of San Francisco has implemented model one to teach their Writing in Psychology course(RHET 203). Cornell University has used model two to teach their Technical Writing course(WRIT 7100). The University of Missouri employs the third model to teach their Process Synthesis and Design course - Writing Intensive(CH_ENG 4980W).\n\nWAC may exist as a formal program housed in or attached to an English department, a formal program as a free-standing unit reporting directly to a dean or vice president, a program attached to an all-campus writing center, or an informal initiative in which faculty voluntarily participate. The WAC director, at most universities, is a tenure-track professor. WAC programs are often administered by a WAC director, frequently with the aid of a WAC faculty committee, and are sometimes staffed by undergraduate or graduate student assistants (also referred to as tutors, consultants, or fellows.)\n\nWorkshops at which faculty from many disciplines meet to share ideas about and strategies around writing are a primary way in which WAC is enacted.\n\nWorkshops serve multiple functions including:\n\nA major complaint against the workshop model of WAC is that it can encourage the mindset that writing pedagogy is relatively simple and can be mastered in a few days, whereas using writing effectively (in English or non-English classes) is widely recognized as taking years of practice.\n\nOn a programmatic level, WAC most often manifests as some kind of writing-intensive (also called writing-enriched or writing-in-the-major) courses. Courses carrying this designation typically meet university-wide criteria including a minimum number of pages or words students write over the semester (or some other measure of writing frequency), opportunity for revision, and deriving a significant portion of the final grade from writing. Writing-intensive courses also often have relatively small enrollment limits (15–35 students depending on institution) and may require faculty to participate in WAC-related professional development activities.\n\nThe rationale for writing-intensive coursework includes:\n\nWhile WAC is usually understood as distributing writing across the curriculum in courses outside of English departments, a WAC philosophy can also influence the structure of first-year composition courses. Because first-year composition is often the only writing course students take, the composition of the class can shape students' understanding of what writing is. Incorporating writing from diverse academic genres can therefore expand students' expectations about what constitutes \"writing.\" WAC in first-year composition owes much to genre theory (genre studies) which asks students to think about the classification and rhetorical implications of writing within socially constructed genres.\n\nWriting-Enriched Curriculum (or WEC) is a movement that scholars have recently started to implement in composition programs across the U.S. With its basic premise reflecting WAC's integration of writing throughout all student's courses, WEC aims to focus on faculty involvement in devising a writing program that is effective and relevant for students in their various fields .\n\nIn the late 1990's, North Carolina State University developed an approach to writing across the curriculum that involved extensive consultation by writing experts with individual departments. These consultations began with a focus on the qualities and characteristics faculty felt that student majors would exhibit if they were strong communicators. Those discussions led to the articulation of learning outcomes for both writing and oral communication. The departments then developed implementation plans that could help them reach the outcomes, followed or preceded by plans for assessing student abilities in order to further refine or project plans for implementation. The Campus Writing and Speaking Program, directed since 1999 by Distinguished Professor Chris Anson (www.ansonica.net), provided much of the support for this campus-wide approach. A few years into the program's existence, Anson and colleague Michael Carter (who is often credited with originating the departmentally-focused conversations on which WEC is founded) consulted with Pamela Flash at the University of Minnesota (where Anson had been a professor for 15 years) to help them spearhead a similar effort. Minnesota branded their program and design \"WEC,\" although now the acronym is becoming generalized as other institutions adopt the approach.\n\nWEC is a developing concept relating to WAC; the acronym was created by Pamela Flash and her colleagues at The University of Minnesota. Flash is the university's director of Writing Across the Curriculum, founding director of the Writing-Enriched Curriculum and co-director of the writing center. As a pioneer of the WEC writing instruction model, the University of Minnesota has had its faculty enroll up to 5 units of WEC plans per year into the undergraduate curriculum for up to 10 years.\n\nAccording to the WEC website at the University of Minnesota,<Writing-Enriched Curriculum Program> </https://wec.umn.edu/> WEC is a faculty-driven method to ensuring the effective, intentional integration of relevant writing and writing instruction into disciplinary curricula. The WEC model created by Writing Across the Curriculum director Pamela Flash and colleagues and initially implemented by the University of Minnesota involves departmental faculty in developing a locally relevant Writing Plan. The outlining of plans is attempted through collaborative discussions between numerous departmental faculty and specialists in both writing and assessment and the consideration of previous attempts at effective writing instruction. Some of the content under consideration include writing assessments, locally collected data, stakeholder surveys and writing expectations from instructors. The outcome of this meetings is pronounced expectations and plans for relevant instructions to be implemented in the curricula. The next step is the application of the plan into the undergraduate curriculum and assessing Undergraduate Writing Plans. Integrating the WEC model is anticipated to show improvements in writing instruction at a rate that would meet faculty expectations. Each of three writing plans is tested for 1-3 academic years through multiple outlets; internal curricular study and structural changes, material development, writing workshops, seminars, and panels, and additional research. The feasibility of each edition of these writing plans is assessed by a subcommittee of the Faculty Senate; the Campus Writing Board. Contributions to writing plan assessment include triennial panel ratings of student writing against faculty expectations and criteria. The results are then used to guide future writing plans. \n\nBecause WEC closely reflects WAC, the principles that Barbara Walvoord gives to devise a WAC program are similar to Anson's Campus Writing and Speaking Program at NC State and Pamela Flash's WEC model at the University of Minnesota. James K. Elmborg's work on information literacy and WAC summarizes Walvoord's characteristics of creating a WAC program as:\n\nSimilarly, both Anson's approach at NC State and Pamela Flash's model at the University of Minnesota reflect the same idea of coming together with faculty members from various fields throughout the curriculum and implementing these changes cohesively. The main point of difference between WAC and WEC, however, is that WEC requires faculty to maintain intentional support activity and assessment of how the program is affecting their students and to make changes, if necessary. By comparison, WAC does not require routinely assessment as part of its model. Like WAC, Flash's WEC model also requires ongoing implementation and incremental direct and indirect assessment, which allows the faculty-implemented plans to sustain. Anson's program at NC State revisits departments to conduct \"profiles\" of their efforts, resulting in a formative report for the department's use According to Flash, WEC differs from most WAC programming in its departmental locus and its direct focus on the ways that faculty members in diverse disciplines conceptualize writing and writing instruction. \n\nP.A. Ramsay, in his paper Writing across the curriculum: Integrating discourse communities in the academy, found that students that participate in WAC programs become better communicators in their chosen discipline and demonstrated improved critical/analytical thinking. \n\nDisadvantages of WAC include fears that the teaching style will reduce the available time to teach content material, difficuties getting teachers \"on board\" with the style, as well as fears that the teacher is illequipped to teach writing.Ramsay also found while working in Jamaica, that students who were unable to compose in their first language (either because of academic defficiencies or because the language did not have a written language) had difficulties composing in their second language using WAC practices. This was a sentiment echoed by Alexander Friedlander, who in his research found that students unable to write in their first language will have great difficulty writing in their second language regardless of whether their instruction has used WAC strategies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "96580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96580", "title": "Wānanga", "text": "Wānanga\n\nIn the education system of New Zealand, a wānanga is a publicly owned tertiary institution that provides education in a Māori cultural context. Section 162 of the \"Education Act 1989\" specifies that wānanga resemble mainstream universities in many ways but are:\n\nWānanga educational programmes, accredited through the New Zealand Qualifications Authority (NZQA) and through the Ministry of Education, are partly governed by New Zealand's Tertiary Education Commission (TEC). Wānanga offer certificates, diplomas, and bachelor-level degrees, with some wānanga providing programmes in specialized areas up to doctorate level. \n\nOutside the formal education system, the word \"wānanga\" conveys meanings related to highly evolved knowledge, lore, occult arts, and also \"forum\" - in the sense of a discussion to arrive at deeper understanding.\n\n\n"}
