{"id": "37907670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37907670", "title": "Agadam", "text": "Agadam\n\nAgadam (English: Wickedness or Injustice) is a 2014 Indian Tamil horror film directed by Mohamad Issack, featuring Baskar, Srini Iyer, Thamizh, Kalaisekaran, Saravana Balaji, Sri Priyanka, Anisha and master Ajay. \"Agadam\" was certified by the Guinness World Records as the longest uncut film which has a running time for 2 hours, 3 minutes and 30 seconds. was shot on 7 December 2012. \n\nThe film, set in real time, starts with men burying the body of a woman whose ghost returns and haunts them. \n\nIssack remade the same film in Telugu as \"Seesa\" with Sivaji, Chesvaa and Namratha in the lead roles.\n\n\nThe entire film was shot on 7 December 2012 shot at a three-storey bungalow near Porur in Chennai. The film running for 2 hours, 3 minutes and 30 seconds was shot on a single camera without any cuts and therefore awarded the Guinness World Record for being the longest uncut film, beating the record held by \"Russian Ark\" directed by Alexander Sokurov, which used a single 96-minute Steadicam sequence shot. \n\nA director registered with the union (L. Suresh of \"Eththan\" fame), a notary public and a government teacher were present during the shoot, while a team followed Isaak and the cinematographer E.J. Nauzad Khan and filmed the entire making of the film in order to send the video to the Guinness Record jury. The camera used was a Sony NEX-FS100.\n\nDirector Issack gave up his software job to \"make a film that is different, yet entertaining\" and said that he wanted his first film to make an impact. He spent over a year on the script and stated that he was inspired by \"Russian Ark\". Ten people were involved in the making of the film, the director, the cameraman, and 8 actors, who were all newcomers. The team rehearsed for over a month before the filming and the entire sequence was said to be rehearsed over 40 times. \"Agadam\" was also the first film to be shot in the night effect with a hand-held camera. The film, which had no songs, was awarded a U/A certificate by the Censor Board.\n\nDinamalar appreciated the film stating that 'the film has a good medical message and stand out in its unique attempt of single shot filming'. They also lauded the entire cast as well as the technician's, concluding that the slow pace of some part has not affected the good result. Kungumam magazine appreciated the cameraman as well as director for making a single shot film completely in a house. Maalai Malar daily mentioned that the cinematography as well as direction has to be appreciated, but music lacked the thrill. Overall the effort can be appreciated for making a single shot film. In contrast, M. Suganth of \"The Times of India\" rated the film 1.5 out of 5, saying that \"\"Agadam\" is a cautionary tale that proves that while digital has made it possible for anyone to make a film, not everyone should make one.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "8168224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8168224", "title": "Armed Services Editions", "text": "Armed Services Editions\n\nArmed Services Editions (ASEs) are small, compact, paperback books that were printed by the Council on Books in Wartime for distribution within the American military during World War II. This program was in effect from 1943 to 1947. The ASEs were designed to provide entertainment to soldiers serving overseas, while also educating them about political, historical, and military issues. The slogan of the Council on Books in Wartime was, \"Books are weapons in the war of ideas.\"\n\nThe ASE program featured an array of fiction and non-fiction titles, including classics, contemporary bestsellers, biographies, drama, poetry, and genre fiction (mysteries, sports, fantasy, action/adventure, westerns). Non-fiction books included biographies, religious/self-help titles, and science titles. Most of these books were printed in unabridged versions. Authors included Hervey Allen, Robert Benchley, Stephen Vincent Benét, Max Brand, Joseph Conrad, A. J. Cronin, Carl Crow, Eugene Cunningham, Clyde Brion Davis, Walter D. Edmonds, Edward Ellsberg, William Faulkner,\nPeter Field, C. S. Forester, Erle Stanley Gardner, Edmund Gilligan, Arthur Henry Gooden, Zane Grey, Ernest Haycox, MacKinlay Kantor, Frances and Richard Lockridge, Jack London, William Colt MacDonald, John P. Marquand, Ngaio Marsh, W. Somerset Maugham, Clarence E. Mulford, John O'Hara, George Sessions Perry, William MacLeod Raine, Eugene Manlove Rhodes, Craig Rice, Charles Alden Seltzer, Luke Short, Thorne Smith, John Steinbeck, George R. Stewart, Grace Zaring Stone, James Thurber, W. C. Tuttle, Mark Twain, H. G. Wells, and Philip Wylie.\n\nThe distinctive covers bore the description, \"Armed Services Edition: This is the Complete Book—Not a Digest.\" Seventy-nine (79) of the titles printed were abridged, usually for length rather than content. These bore the slogan, \"Condensed for wartime reading,\" or slight variations such as \"Slightly condensed for rapid reading.\"\n\nOver the life of the program, over 122 million copies of 1,324 books were printed. This makes the ASE program one of the largest wide-scale distributions of free books in history. Of the 1,324 books, 1,225 were unique titles and 99 were reprints of titles issued earlier in the series. Sixty-three (63) of the titles were \"made books\"; they were collections of short stories, poems, plays, essays, or radio plays, usually by the same author, that were assembled and published together for the first time.\n\nA complete, extant collection of all 1,324 ASE books is held at the Library of Congress.\n\nThe small books were convenient for soldiers because they fit easily into a cargo pocket. Finished size varied slightly, from 5½\" to 6½\" long and from 3⅞\" to 4½\" high. Unlike traditional paperbacks, most of the ASEs were bound on the short side of the text block rather than the long side, due to the printing presses used. A few titles near the end of the series were published in traditional paperback format with the spine on the long side.\n\nArmed Services Editions were printed on digest and pulp magazine presses, usually in two columns per page for easier reading. Some ASEs were stapled along the binding, in addition to being glued, to make them sturdier. Because the Council on Books in Wartime made use of magazine presses to print ASEs when the presses were not in use, printing costs were low. The cost for printing was around 6 cents per copy, and royalties of one cent per copy were split between authors and publishers. This early experiment with mass paperback printing helped to prove the viability of paperback publishing in the United States.\n\nASEs were very popular amongst the armed forces. Copies were shared, re-read, and ripped into sections so they could accommodate two or more readers at once. A contemporary newspaper article recounted, \"The hunger for these books, evidenced by the way they are read to tatters, is astounding even to the Army and Navy officers and the book-trade officials who conceived Editions for the Armed Services\" (Wittels, 11). ASEs were the first books some readers had picked up since high school.\n\nToday, many Armed Services Editions are still readily available from used booksellers. However, the rarer titles from the series are difficult to find and very valuable. The scarcest tend to be the titles produced at the beginning and the ending of the series. Other titles, such as \"Superman\" and \"A Rose for Emily,\" are more common but valuable because they appeal to a wider array of collectors.\n\nA complete set of ASEs is owned by the Library of Congress. Near-complete sets are in the libraries of the University of Alabama, the University of South Carolina and the University of Virginia. The University of Notre Dame hosts 1064 titles. Many other libraries have special Armed Services Edition collections including the University of Texas, the University of Rochester, Princeton University, Dartmouth College, University of Wisconsin–Madison, and Harvard University.\n\nThere is one known complete set and another near-complete set (missing 2 books) which are held by private collectors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20625975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20625975", "title": "Austria Netto Katalog", "text": "Austria Netto Katalog\n\nThe Austria Netto Kataloge are Austria's most popular collectors' catalogs. They have been regularly issued since the mid-20th century. Among philatelists, numismatists, and phone card collectors they are considered the authoritative reference catalogs.\n\nThe most famous of these catalogs are those issued in the field of philately. These are limited to the Austrian collecting field, and are issued annually. The oldest of these, the \"Österreich Spezial Katalog\" (Austria Special Catalog), as of 2007, is in its 63rd edition. Also issued annually are the \"Österreich Standardkatalog\" (Austria Standard Catalog) and the \"Vierländerkatalog\" (Four Countries Catalog), the latter of which lists all stamps issued in each of the four German-speaking countries: Austria, Germany, Liechtenstein, and Switzerland.\n\nIn addition to its stamp catalogs, the \"Austria Netto Kataloge\" line also includes annually-issued Austrian coin catalogs and Austrian phone card catalogs. The catalogs' publisher also issues catalogs for special cancellations.\n\nThe editor-in-chief of the Austria Netto Kataloge, as of 2008, is Christine Steyrer.\n\nDue to the length of the name \"Austria Netto Kataloge\", collectors often use the abbreviation \"ANK\". Therefore, while also commonly used, the expression \"ANK catalog\" is technically redundant.\n\nThe Austria Special Catalog has substantially more content than the Austria Standard Catalog, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2542022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2542022", "title": "Aviation Safety Network", "text": "Aviation Safety Network\n\nThe Aviation Safety Network (ASN) is a website that keeps track of aviation accidents, incidents, and hijackings. Their database contains details of over 10,700 reports. The ASN includes an aviation database with aviation investigations, news, photos, and statistics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50739842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50739842", "title": "Chronicon Venetum et Gradense", "text": "Chronicon Venetum et Gradense\n\nThe Chronicon Venetum et Gradense, formerly known as the Chronicon Sagornini, is a Venetian chronicle compiled by John the Deacon in ca. 1008. It is the oldest chronicle of the Republic of Venice. John was the chaplain and perhaps a relative of Venetian Doge Pietro II Orseolo (r. 991–1009). The first part, dealing with early history, is lacking, only later becoming more accurate, and in the time of John himself deemed particularly valuable. It details the reign of Pietro II.\n"}
{"id": "58389188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58389188", "title": "Collection of meteorites in the National Museum of Brazil", "text": "Collection of meteorites in the National Museum of Brazil\n\nThe National Museum of Brazil collections include an exhibition of meteorites discovered in Brazil and other countries.\n\nOne of the most important meteorites that was on display is the Bendegó meteorite, which weighs over 5,000 kg and was discovered in 1784. It survived the fire that destroyed the museum in 2018, sustaining no major damage.\n\n"}
{"id": "36625178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36625178", "title": "Comparison of HTML parsers", "text": "Comparison of HTML parsers\n\nHTML parsers are software for automated Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) parsing. They have two main purposes: \n"}
{"id": "37833044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37833044", "title": "Comparison of Start menu replacements for Windows 8", "text": "Comparison of Start menu replacements for Windows 8\n\nMicrosoft's Windows 8 operating system introduced an updated Start menu known as the \"Start screen\", which uses a full-screen design consisting of tiles to represent applications. This replaced the Windows desktop as the primary interface of the operating system. Additionally, the on-screen Start button was replaced by a hidden button in the corner of the screen; Microsoft explained that the Start button was removed because few people used it, noting the addition of \"pinning\" apps to the taskbar from Windows 7. \n\nThe change was controversial among users, and a market ensued for applications which restore the visible Start button, emulate the previous Start menu design, or allow users to boot directly to the Desktop instead of the Start screen.\n\nThe following is a list of Start menu replacements for Windows 8 which have received coverage from third-party sources:\n\nThe number of skins in the table givens the number of built-in skins. If there are downloadable skins, then a \"+\" is appended to the number to indicate that download extensions are possible.\n\nRetroUI, StartIsBack, Classic Shell, Start8, and Pokki are five of the more notable of these. RetroUI is offered in 33 languages, and also for Windows Server 2012, and adds a taskbar and resizable windows. StartIsBack is also localized. Classic Shell used to be free and open source (now proprietary freeware), major items are localized and installing the Language Pack from Windows Update makes all items fully localized; Classic Shell is also available for Windows 7 and Windows Server, and claims over 25 million downloads. The Pokki download to restore the Start menu is free; as of January 2013, it has about 1.5 million users. The Pokki application platform, based on Chromium, enables desktop applications to be built—like mobile apps—using standard web languages like HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript. It is also available for Windows XP and Windows 7. Pokki has raised $21.5M from investors like Google, Intel, and O'Reilly; its business model is to make a commission on software sold through its app. store. Start8 has been downloaded over 5 million times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "288504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288504", "title": "Computers and Typesetting", "text": "Computers and Typesetting\n\nComputers and Typesetting is a 5-volume set of books by Donald Knuth published in 1986 describing the TeX and Metafont systems for digital typography. Knuth's computers and typesetting project was the result of his frustration with the lack of decent software for the typesetting of mathematical and technical documents. The results of this project include TeX for typesetting, Metafont for font construction and the Computer Modern typefaces that are the default fonts used by TeX. In the series of five books Knuth not only describes the TeX and Metafont languages (volumes A and C), he also describes and documents the source code (in the WEB programming language) of the TeX and Metafont interpreters (volumes B and D), and the source code for the Computer Modern fonts used by TeX (volume E). The book set stands as a tour de force demonstration of literate programming.\n\nThe books themselves were typeset in the Computer Modern Roman typeface using TeX; thus, in Knuth's words, they \"belong to the class of sets of books that describe precisely their own appearance.\"\n\nThe five volumes are published by Addison-Wesley.\nThe set is also available as a hardcover boxed set with the latest editions as of the year 2000. \n\n"}
{"id": "3169823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3169823", "title": "Dock warrant", "text": "Dock warrant\n\nDock warrant, in law, a document by which the owner of a marine or river dock certifies that the holder is entitled to goods imported and warehoused in the docks.\n\nIn the Factors Act 1889 it is included in the phrase \"document of title\" and is defined as any document or writing, being evidence of the title of any person therein named ... to the property in any goods or merchandise lying in any warehouse or wharf and signed or certified by the person having the custody of the goods. It passes by indorsement and delivery and transfers the absolute right to the goods described in it.\n\nIn England in 1911, a dock warrant was liable to a stamp duty of threepence, which was denoted by an adhesive stamp, to be cancelled by the person by whom the instrument is executed or issued.\n\n"}
{"id": "42962784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42962784", "title": "European Certification Body", "text": "European Certification Body\n\n„European Certification Body“ (ECB) is a since 7 July 1992 accredited (ISO/IEC 17065) and neutral certification body for physical security products. It certifies according to (European Standards) – without any national additional requirements. ECB issues the ECB•S certification mark.\n\n\nCertified security products may be marked with the blue ECB•S certification mark. A requirement of the ECB•S certification is a type testing according to European Standards. The type test is based on an authentic and real-life simulation e.g. of a burglary or a fire. The result of the test leads to the qualification of the product (e.g. resistance grade I, II, III for a safe). Ongoing audits in the manufacturing plants are necessary to maintain an equal quality.\n\nThe ECB•S certification gives insurance companies a basis for the calculation of risks. Very often insurance companies assure worths only if they are kept in a tested and certified secure storage unit. Therefore it is recommended also by governmental bodies, e.g. the police, to better choose certified security broducts in doubt.\n\nThe storage of weapons or medicine can require certified secure storage products.\n\nECB is together with the international security association ESSA the follow-up organisations of the FuP e.V. The FuP, founded in 1969, initiated and forced the standardization of physical security products. At first in Germany, later on also on the European Market.\n\n"}
{"id": "20843226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20843226", "title": "Exclusionary zoning", "text": "Exclusionary zoning\n\nExclusionary zoning is the utilization of zoning ordinances to exclude certain types of land uses from a given community. This mechanism began gaining prominence in land-use regulations throughout the United States in the late 19th century. Ultimately, despite resistance from excluded peoples and activists, the policy is still extensively used today across the country.\n\nThe vast, land-rich country upheld the notion that state powers should not interfere with private property. Also, given the country's predominately rural and isolated composition, most citizens were unconcerned about who their neighbors were at the time. Thus, early Americans largely disapproved of any early attempts at exclusionary zoning.\n\nHowever, around the turn of the 20th century, a rapid urbanization process and influx of immigrants transformed the country. Middle and upper-classes consequently encountered much greater diversity than they had before making the intrusion of unwanted people into their neighborhoods appear more conceivable. As a result, many cities began implementing the first exclusionary zoning policies. In 1908, Los Angeles adopted the first citywide zoning ordinance protecting residential areas from the entrance of these undesirable community elements. Many of these early regulations directly debarred racial and ethnic minorities from community residence until explicit racial zoning was declared unconstitutional in 1917. Despite the unconstitutionality of such explicit measures, exclusionary ordinances continued to gain popularity throughout the country.\n\nGiven the increased utilization of exclusionary zoning, the United States federal government finally addressed the issue with the enactment of the Standard State Zoning Enabling Act of 1922. This legislation established the institutional framework for zoning ordinances. It delegated land-use power to local authorities for the conservation of community welfare and provided guidelines for appropriate regulation usage. \nIn light of these developments, the Supreme Court considered zoning's constitutionality in the 1926 landmark case of Village of Euclid, Ohio v. Ambler Realty Co.. The court ultimately condoned zoning as an acceptable means of community regulation. Following this verdict, the number of municipalities with zoning legislation multiplied from 368 in 1925 to over 1,000 in 1930.\n\nFollowing World War II's end and the country's subsequent suburbanization process, exclusionary zoning policies experienced an uptick in complexity, stringency and prevalence as suburbanites attempted to more effectively protect their new communities. Many people had severed ties with the city and its unwanted elements as they searched for their suburban utopia. They feared that these very city elements that they escaped would follow them into the suburbs if left unchecked. Thus, middle-class and affluent whites, who constituted the majority of suburban inhabitants, more frequently employed measures preventing immigrant and minority integration. As a result of resident's newly found protectionism, the number of jurisdictions with such ordinances increased to over 5,200 by 1968.\n\nWhile well-off whites mainly inhabited the suburbs, the remaining city residents, primarily impoverished minorities, faced substantial obstacles to wealth. Many attributed their impecunious state to their exclusion from the suburbs. In response, a flurry of exclusionary zoning cases were brought before the Supreme Court in the 1970s that would ultimately determine the tactic's fate. The Supreme Court sided with the proponents of exclusionary zoning in near unanimity which virtually halted any zoning reform movement. The ability of minorities and other excluded populations to challenge exclusionary zoning became essentially nonexistent, allowing the policy's unabated continuation today.\n\nCurrently, exclusionary zoning ordinances are standard in almost all communities. A recent comprehensive survey found that over 80% of United States jurisdictions imposed minimum lot size requirements of some kind on their inhabitants. These ordinances continue to reinforce discriminatory housing practices throughout the United States.\n\nAmerican courts have historically most greatly valued individual property rights. However, more recently, concern for the general community welfare has begun taking precedence thus exculpating most exclusionary zoning measures. Communities are granted freedom to enact policies in accordance with community welfare goals even in the case that they infringe upon a specific individual's property rights.\n\nCourts also have regularly ruled as if municipal regulatory power emanated from their role as agents for local families rather than for the government. Regulation was equated with some manner of 'market force' rather than 'state force' thereby allowing the policies to bypass many questions of justification required for state policy enactment. For example, they did not have to prove that their policies benefited the well-being of society at large. Rather, they could merely enact regulations on the sole basis that it was their prerogative as an agent of the market regardless of any adverse effects on others. Therefore, exclusionary mechanisms were allowed to endure as complaints about the negative effects on the excluded population ultimately became null and irrelevant.\n\nBuchanan v. Warley 1917: A Louisville city ordinance prohibiting the sale of property to African Americans was brought to court. It was ultimately declared that such racial zoning was unconstitutional and a breach of individuals' freedom of contract. As a result, ordinances were no longer able to explicitly reject certain types of people but rather were now forced to resort to subtler means of exclusion.\n\nVillage of Euclid, Ohio v. Ambler Realty Co. 1926: The Ambler Realty company accused the Village of Euclid of depriving their liberty with its ban on industrial uses. The ban on industry reduced the company's land value from $10,000 down to $2,500 per acre and undermined the company's right to govern its own property. Court officials, however, sided with the village and upheld the ordinance on the basis that it was a just and reasonable delegation of the state's police power. Municipals, the court ruled, are entitled to regulate community property when it reflects the best interests of its constituents. This landmark decision would lay the constitutional foundation for all future exclusionary zoning policies.\n\nBelle Terre et al. v. Boras et al. 1974: A group of 6 unrelated college students living together challenged a neighborhood ordinance that restricted unit residence to no more than two unrelated individuals. The case differed from the Euclid one in that there was no residential land use or structural type at issue. It rather addressed the constitutionality of directly regulating occupancy. Eventually, the court sanctioned this variety of ordinances. A community's pursuit of homogeneity was self-justifying, the court logic went, so long as there is no explicit class or racial discrimination. Their decision hinged on the view that an area's definition of the family is acceptable as long as a rational basis exists for the determination. It is not a judge's domain to overrule such legislative decisions. Implicit within the case's ruling is permission for exclusionary zoning regulations to attempt preservation of identity in the context of family compositions. Thus, given the previous Village of Euclid decision, municipalities were now granted the right to legislate both external property and internal inhabitant characteristics.\n\nWarth v. Seldin 1975: Low-income individuals and a not-for-profit housing organization sued a New York State suburb contending that the community's exclusionary principles increased their housing costs. The court ultimately asserted that any harm is a generalized consequence of real estate economics rather than a specific result of the suburb's regulations. Therefore, since the elevated housing costs could not be directly attributed to a certain exclusionary policy, the court ruled in favor of the suburb's ordinance. Specific legislation would not be held accountable for any overarching effects that it may have advanced. Therefore, exclusionary mechanisms could expand without threat of lawsuits from refused populations.\n\nMunicipalities will often impose density controls on developable land with the intention of limiting the number of individuals that will live in their particular area. This process denies neighborhood access to certain groups by limiting the supply of available housing units. Such concerns may manifest in measures prohibiting multi-family residential dwellings, limiting the number of people per unit of land and mandating lot size requirements. Most vacant land is particularly overzoned in that it contains excess regulations impeding the construction of smaller, more affordable housing. In the New York City suburbs of Fairfield County, Connecticut, for instance, 89% of land is classified for residential zoning of over one acre. This type of regulation ensures that housing developments are of adequately low density. Such ordinances can collectively raise costs anywhere from 2 to 250% depending on their extensiveness. With such high costs, lower-income groups are effectively shut out of the community's housing market.\n\nAnother means by which exclusionary zoning and related ordinances contribute to the exclusion certain groups is through direct cost impositions on community residents. As of recently, municipalities have established measures decreeing developers greater responsibility in the provision and maintenance of many basic neighborhood resources such as schools, parks, and other related services. Developers incur excess costs for these aforementioned obligations which are then passed on to consumers in the form of fees or a financial bond. For instance, many newer developments charge monthly recreational fees to fund community facilities. Also, restrictive zoning regulations have made the approval process for development more arduous and extensive. The increased bureaucracy and red tape has meant that developers now encounter a myriad of fees for variance (land use), a building permit, a certificate of occupancy, a filing (legal) cost, special permits and planned-unit development applications. Not only do the fees diminish builder profits, but they also lengthen the development process which further drains company resources. Just as with the community resource requirements, these extra costs are inevitably delivered to housing purchasers. All of these fees accumulate and escalate unit prices to levels inaccessible for lower income people.\n\nThe exclusion of certain types of individuals safeguards the community's public finances and the individual's property value. Lower-income residents generally demand more public resources than they contribute in taxes. Moreover, given the discrepancy between public service intake and taxation output, wealthier residents will need to subsidize these inhabitants, which forces more affluent inhabitants to pay extra taxes without receiving any direct additional benefits for themselves. Also, the entrance of lower-income residents threatens the property values of a community. As the neighborhood's median income levels decline, others may perceive the area as deteriorating and less desirable. Hence, the valuation of the unit may also experience a decline causing monetary losses to the homeowner. Property owners have been found to receive a payoff for the exclusion of low-income and minority households in the form of both increased property values and tax proceeds. Therefore, in order to prevent this subsidization process and to augment their own monetary assets, upper-class individuals enact regulations prohibiting neighborhood accessibility for specific groups.\n\nExclusionary zoning's assurance of lower densities precludes some potential deleterious consequences associated with increased population density. More people in a community can result in more traffic congestion, which may interfere with the original inhabitants' quality of life. Greater populations may lead to strains on potentially limited or vulnerable environmental resources such as water or air, if the urban form is designed in an automobile-dependent way.\n\nSome suburbanites also champion exclusionary zoning policies on the simple motivation of excluding unalike groups irrespective of any negative effects that they may impose. Some researchers partly attribute the policies to class or racial prejudice as individuals often prefer to live in homogeneous communities of people similar to themselves. Others assert that race is merely a proxy and that upper classes and whites stereotype overall neighborhoods containing certain groups rather than the individual group members specifically. Such areas are stigmatized for their perceived correlation with high crime, low-quality schooling and low property values. Additionally, the entrance of heterogenous residents could have severe political ramifications. If enough lower-income individuals, who typically differ in political ideology, move into the community, then they may garner enough political power to overshadow the traditional contingent. As such, the original constituency is politically subjugated in the very community in which they used to enjoy power. Thus, whites and upper classes divert those groups for their unsuitable characteristics, perceived link with negative neighborhood qualities and threat to community politics.\n\n Exclusionary zoning initiatives reduce the presence of both rental housing and ethnic minorities in an affected community. Despite federal court mandates prohibiting blatant racial and economic discrimination, many of these less fortunate groups have encountered systematic obstacles preventing access to higher-income areas. Studies have demonstrated that higher-income and predominately-white jurisdictions generally adopt more restrictive land-use regulations. As a result, minority and lower-income groups are essentially locked into rigidly segregated neighborhoods. Residential segregation has remained constant from the 1960s to 1990s in spite of civil rights progress, primarily because of hindering policies that relegate certain groups to less-regulated areas. Accordingly, the prevalence of exclusionary land-use policies exacerbates social segregation by deterring any racial and economic integration.\n\nRestrictive from the standpoint of economic efficiency, regulations that limit density also decrease the total housing supply of a region. With the lowered housing stock, market demand for the units is amplified thus raising prices. Along with reduced overall supply, the insistence on detached single-family homes also increases individual housing costs as homeowners must individually account for many land improvements (such as sidewalks, streets, water and sewer lines) that otherwise could be shared among more inhabitants as in denser communities. Studies in Maryland and the District of Columbia find that higher densities cut per capita water and sewer installation costs by 50% and road installation/maintenance by 67%. Moreover, residential developers and homeowners must implement expensive housing features to comply with jurisdictional zoning mandates. For instance, setback (land use) requirements that are commonly used throughout the United States increase total unit costs by 6.1 to 7.8%. All land-use factors contribute to mounting housing unit prices in comparison to less regulated communities. The communities specifically administering restrictive ordinances experience higher housing costs, like neighboring areas. Exclusionary zoning affects the overall regional housing market by reducing the total supply of units. As there are less available units, the demand for the units will rise causing more expensive housing across the area. Ultimately, the additional competition and resulting costs accumulate making regional markets with strictly regulated housing have 17% higher rents and 51% higher housing prices than do leniently governed areas. Therefore, housing regulations evidently have significant impacts on both the specific community and overall region's housing expenditure.\n\nEducation has been proven to be vitally important to human welfare, as it can promote higher incomes, greater labor market performance, a higher social status, increased societal participation and improved health. Along with individual benefits, educational attainment in the United States also has the ability to foster greater regional and national economic prosperity as an educated populace can better adapt to global economic trends and conditions. Nevertheless, there is a stark education inequality between various groups as the average low-income student attends a school that scores on the 42nd percentile on state exams while the average middle and upper-income student attends a school that scores on the 61st percentile on state exams. The vast differences in attainment cannot be accounted for by assuming inheritable group differences, as empirical research has demonstrated that simple genetic contrasts are insufficient to explain education disparities. Rather, environmental factors involving school quality also contribute to educational achievement. Regions with much economic segregation, which, as noted earlier, partially stems from exclusionary zoning, also have the largest gaps in test scores between the low-income and other students. Low-income students are trapped in inadequate schooling since their economic conditions limit access of high-performing schools and education. Across the 100 largest metropolitan areas in the United States, costs of housing is 2.4 times higher for units zoned to higher-performing public schools than to those zoned to lower-performing ones. Therefore, exclusionary zoning serves to channel lower income students into lower performing schools thereby prompting educational achievement differences.\n\n"}
{"id": "27908602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27908602", "title": "Exhibition of National Portraits", "text": "Exhibition of National Portraits\n\nThe Exhibition of National Portraits was a series of three grand exhibitions in London at the South Kensington Museum between 1866 and 1868. The first one opened in April 1866, and contained portraits of people from or linked to the history of England until the Glorious Revolution. The second exhibition displayed portraits between the Glorious Revolution and 1800, with the final exhibition showing portraits from people living after 1800, including living people. The second and third exhibition also included portraits that by right should have been present in one of the previous exhibitions, but weren't shown then. The third exhibition for example showed 9 works attributed to Hans Holbein, 9 works by Anthony van Dyck, 27 by Reynolds and 34 by Gainsborough, even though they should normally have been shown in the previous exhibitions.\n\nThe 1866 exhibition, lasting from 16 April until 18 August, had 73,156 visitors for 1035 pictures, including works by Hans Memling and Hans Holbein the Younger. The 1867 exhibition, held between 2 May and 31 August, showed 866 portraits, many of them by Joshua Reynolds and Thomas Gainsborough, and received 49,385 visitors. The third exhibition opened on 13 April 1868, with 951 portraits. When it closed on 22 August, there had been 58,336 visitors. The catalogues of the three exhibitions sold over 16,000 copies for the first year, and over 8,000 copies each for the other two years.\n"}
{"id": "24270311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24270311", "title": "Flora of China (series)", "text": "Flora of China (series)\n\nFlora of China is a scientific publication aimed at describing the plants native to China.\n\nThe project is a collaborative scientific effort to publish the first modern English-language account of the 31,000 species of vascular plants of China. This number includes about 8,000 species of medicinal and economically important plants and about 7,500 species of trees and shrubs.\n\n\"Flora of China\" describes and otherwise documents these species. \"Flora of China\" is an English-language revision of \"Flora Republicae Popularis Sinicae\" (FRPS), with taxonomy reflecting the current understanding of each group. The sequence of families is a modified Englerian system, similar to that used in FRPS; however, the circumscription of some families reflects the present understanding of the groups. It is intended that all the vascular plants of China will be covered, including descriptions, identification keys, essential synonymy, phenology, provincial distribution in China, brief statements on extra-Chinese distribution, and remarks regarding the circumscription of problematic taxa.\n\n\"Flora of China Illustrations\" series, a companion set of volumes, illustrated ca. 65% of species documented in \"Flora of China\". Many of the illustration volumes are largest collections of line drawings of related families/genera ever published in the world.\n\nIn addition, botanical names, literature, geographical distribution inside and outside China, and endemism status are available in the online Flora of China Checklist. This checklist and Missouri Botanical Garden's Tropicos database together provide interfaces for querying the nomenclatural and distributional data and illustrations.\n\nThe data from the published volumes are presented online as separate treatments of families, genera, and species. These treatments are searchable in eFloras on names and various other information. Interactive identification keys are available for large genera.\n\nClose international collaboration on the research, writing, review, and editing characterizes the production of the \"Flora\". Chinese authors work together with their non-Chinese colleagues from 29 countries (Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines, Russia, Spain, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, UK, Ukraine, and USA). The resulting draft is then reviewed by Chinese botanists, the Flora of China Editorial Committee, family specialists from around the world, and advisors on the floras of regions neighboring China to produce the best possible treatments.\n\nThe project has seven non-Chinese editorial centers at Harvard University Herbaria, the California Academy of Sciences, the Smithsonian Institution, the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh, the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, the Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle (Paris), and the Missouri Botanical Garden, the organizational and coordination center of the project. The four Chinese centers are the CAS Institute of Botany (Beijing), the Kunming Institute of Botany, the Jiangsu Institute of Botany (Nanjing), and the South China Botanical Garden (Guangzhou). Some 478 scientists from throughout the world have cooperated in the preparation of individual treatments in the \"Flora\".\n\nKai Larsen (1926–2012) was one of the advisors for the series.\n\n"}
{"id": "2211807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2211807", "title": "Froissart of Louis of Gruuthuse (BnF Fr 2643-6)", "text": "Froissart of Louis of Gruuthuse (BnF Fr 2643-6)\n\nThe Froissart of Louis of Gruuthuse (BnF Fr 2643-6) is a heavily illustrated deluxe illuminated manuscript in four volumes, containing a French text of Froissart's \"Chronicles\", written and illuminated in the first half of the 1470s in Bruges, Flanders, in modern Belgium. The text of Froissart's \"Chronicles\" is preserved in more than 150 manuscript copies. This is one of the most lavishly illuminated examples, commissioned by Louis of Gruuthuse, a Flemish nobleman and bibliophile. \n\nThe four volumes are now in the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris as BnF, MSS Français 2643-6, and contain 110 miniatures of various sizes painted by some of the best Brugeois artists of the day. The page size is approximately 44 x 33 cm, with miniatures of various sizes, from 3/4 page and half-page, to historiated initials. The French text is in two columns and there is extensive marginal decoration of scrolling stems and other plant motifs, with some human and animal figures among them.\n\nLoiset Lyédet did the sixty miniatures in the first two volumes. He was a very successful, if somewhat formulaic, illuminator, working mainly on secular manuscripts for Philip III, Duke of Burgundy (Philip the Good) and his court. He probably used assistants, but it is hard to detect separate hands in his work. \n\nThe last two volumes, which are in general finer, were worked on by the anonymous illuminators known as the Master of Anthony of Burgundy (identified by some writers with Philippe de Mazerolles), the Master of Margaret of York, and the Master of the Dresden Prayer Book, the last as an assistant to the Master of Anthony of Burgundy. These masters are named after prominent works or patrons of theirs. It appears that the project was split in half from an early stage, as the scribes who wrote the text and the style of border decoration (also the work of specialists) differ between volumes 1-2 and 3-4. \n\nThe large miniatures by the Master of Anthony of Burgundy are especially sophisticated in style, and those by the young Master of the Dresden Prayer Book (above) are notable for \"their startlingly ambitious palette and combination of colors, agitated and vibrantly modelled drapery, an apparently inexhaustible range of well-designed figure poses, and challenging placement of figures within complex spaces\" (McKendrick). All the illustrations below are from the first two volumes, unless otherwise stated.\n\nLouis of Gruuthuse (1427–1492) was born and lived in Bruges and was an important member of the court of Philip the Good. He appears to have been the second largest purchaser in the period, after Philip himself, of illuminated manuscripts from the best Flemish workshops, then at their peak of success. He had a book collection totalling about 190 volumes, mostly secular in content, of which over half were contemporary illuminated copies. This made his collection over twice the size of the contemporary English Royal collection. Louis was in fact one of the last people to commission new manuscripts on such a scale; he probably began collecting books in the late 1460s, with many of his major commissions dating from the 1470s. In some cases even from that decade the titles already existed in printed form, and by the end of his life most titles could be bought printed, and Flemish illumination, especially of secular works, was in deep decline. Froissart's Chronicles were not printed until about 1498, in Paris. \n\nHe incorporated portraits of himself in miniatures in several books (but not these volumes); an extra figure, wearing the collar of the Order of the Golden Fleece, appears in his copies but not in similar compositions in other copies of the same works. Many of his volumes, like this set, passed to King Louis XII of France, and are now in the Bibliothèque nationale de France. King Louis painted his arms over those of Louis de Gruuthuse on some pages in this set (and in other books had the Burgundian collar of the Fleece over-painted on the de Gruuthuse figures). The current bindings are later (17th or 18th century), but traces of what were probably the original blue velvet bindings remain.\n\nLike the \"Harley Froissart\" (British Library Harley MSS 4379-4380), which is the most fully illustrated of all illuminated Froissarts, this is an example of a notable resurgence of interest in Froissart's work from the late 1460s onwards; the earliest parts of the Chronicles were by then over a century old, and covered a period beginning 140 years before.\n\nAll miniatures by Loyset Liédet, unless stated. Dates are of the events, not the miniatures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45360080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45360080", "title": "Frying pan (Karlsruhe 75/11)", "text": "Frying pan (Karlsruhe 75/11)\n\nThe Cycladian frying pan (formerly Karlsruhe, Badisches Landesmuseum, inventory number 75/11) is an ornately decorated stone object from the Bronze Age Cycladic civilization. It dates to the Early Cycladic period, between the 27th and 24th centuries BC (EC II). The find spot is unknown, except that it originated on the Cycladic island of Naxos. The item derived from an illegal excavation and was acquired in 1975 by the Badisches Landesmuseum in Karlsruhe. On 6 June 2014 it was repatriated to the National Archaeological Museum of Athens, Greece.\n\nThe frying pan is a round dish with a diameter of 17.5 cm and a depth of 2.8 cm. There is a 2.2 cm long handle in the shape of a pie slice. It is made from greenschist, which derives from the Cycladic island of Naxos.\n\nThe front side, with a flat bottom and narrow, recessed edge, is undecorated. It is the back side which makes the object stand out. This surface is surrounded by a chip patterned band, even on the handle. The area inside this band is filled with a pattern of interwoven spirals. A single large spiral in the centre is connected by double strands to seven medium-sized spirals surrounding it. These seven spirals are surrounded by an outer row of fourteen yet smaller spirals. Each of the seven medium spirals are connected to two of their neighbours and to three of the spirals in the outer row. The spirals on the outer edge are each connected to their two neighbours and are formed of three or four spirals, depending on whether they are linked to one or two of the medium-sized spirals. On the handle, double and triple strands form a crisscross pattern with triangles.\n\nThe outer surface of the bowl is a bit weathered, slightly knocked and has a few scratches on it. On the inside there are flecks of sinter; a thick layer of sinter was removed from the decorated back side in modern times, revealing the patterns now visible.\nPatterns of interlocking spirals are often incised in Cycladic pottery, but in stone they are found on only a few items, particularly pyxides. An example was discovered in excavations on the island of Amorgos and acquired for the Antikensammlung Berlin by Georg Ferdinand Dümmler. The quality of the work and the very carefully executed pattern ought to be attributed to an experienced and especially talented artisan. The frying pan must have been a prominent prestige object for its owner.\n\nIn the Keros-Syros phase of the Cycladic civilization, to which this piece is attributed, ceramic frying pans are very common. In addition a very few are known which are made out of marble. But the only other example made out of stone is an undecorated example first published by Nikolaos M. Kontoleon in 1972. This frying pan is thus unique in material and execution and is therefore seen as a \"masterpiece of Cycladic art.\" \n\nThe use and purpose of Cycladic frying pans is unclear. They are mostly known as grave goods in especially rich graves. Christos Tsountas originally suggested that they were mirrors. According to him, the flat bowl would have been filled with water and the user would have been able to see their reflection in them. Experiments do not support this theory, since water does not produce a mirror effect and, while olive oil does work it is believed to have been too rare and expensive for this purpose in the early Cycladic period.\n\nOn account of several finds in the cemetery of Chalandriani on the island of Syros and small examples of clay and bone with paint residue, Nikolaos M. Kontoleon suggested that they could have been palettes for the creation of paints from crushed pigments.\n\nThe decoration of the frying pans recall water, almost without exception. Spirals, ships and stars are usual. The ceramic frying pans often have two handles, projecting from the body with a women's genitals incised in the triangular space between them. On account of this, it has been suggested that they received libations in some kind of fertility rite; sea, Sun and femininity may have been seen as symbols of the fertility of the body and the sea, which was essential for human life.\n\nA further possibility was raised by Christos Doumas in 1993, who suggested that they were used to process sea salt. Doumas connected the issue of trade and exchange of goods before the invention of money with this, proposing that salt might have served as a valuable material, while leaving no archaeologically detectable traces.\n\nIn 1975, in the lead up to the 1976 exhibition \"Kunst der Kykladen\" (Art of the Cyclades), the then curator of the Badisches Landesmuseum, Jürgen Thimme, bought the frying pan from an art dealer for 35,000 marks along with a female Cycladic figurine (Karlsruhe 75/49) and other artefacts. The frying pan did not derive from a legal excavation, but the vendor guaranteed that the object had been acquired before 1970, although he offered no evidence and remained anonymous. In any case, an illegal excavation violated Greek law and the object could only have been removed from the country by smuggling. But since the original acquisition took place before 1970, the UNESCO \"Convention for the Banning and Prevention of Illegal Import, Export and Sale of Cultural Artefacts\" enacted in 1970 would not have been violated and the purchase would have been legal under international law. In addition, the German Republic only signed the convention in 2007.\n\nThe exhibition in the Karlsruhe Schloss in 1976 featured by far the widest collection of Cycladic objects displayed up till that time. In accord with the then prevailing view in Museum circles and with the support of the International Council of Museums loans from international museums and a number of private collections were displayed without scrutinising their provenance. The Greek antiquities department objected to this at the time of the exhibition first being publicised and therefore refused to make any pieces from their state collections available for the exhibition. However, the then leader of the antiquities department of the Cyclades, Christos Doumas wrote the chapter for the exhibition catalogue on the archaeological exploration of Cycladic culture and spoke in it about graverobbing.\n\nAfter Germany acceded to the UNESCO convention in 2007, museums found themselves in a problematic situation - especially the Badische Landesmuseum. In their second great international exhibition in 2011, \"Kykladen - Lebenswelten einer frühgriechischen Kultur\" (Cyclades - Life-world of an Early Greek Culture), the Landesmuseum specifically identified the provenance of the exhibits and displayed only objects from national and international collection which disclosed the origin of the pieces. Objects from private collections were not displayed. But the Greek authorities were not satisfied with their handling of the issues and again refused to loan items.\n\nLong negotiations followed and on 6 June 2014, the frying pan, along with figurine 75/49 were returned to the National Archaeological Museum of Athens by the State Secretary of the Baden-Württemberg Ministry of Scholarship, Research & Art, Harald Siebenmorgen, in the company of the Greek Minister of Culture Panagiotis Panagiotopoulos. The current value of the frying pan has been estimated to lie in the millions of Euros.\n\n"}
{"id": "42147663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42147663", "title": "Gage Canadian Dictionary", "text": "Gage Canadian Dictionary\n\nThe Gage Canadian Dictionary is a dictionary for Canadian English published by Gage Publishers in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The dictionary contains over 140,000 entry words with definitions, International Phonetic Alphabet pronunciation key, homonyms and synonyms. In addition, the dictionary contains many illustrations and photos.\n\nIt was first published in 1967 as \"Dictionary of Canadian English: The Senior Dictionary\", with a subsequent edition under the same title in 1973, and a further one as \"Canadian Senior Dictionary\" in 1979. \nThis was followed by an edition as \"The Gage Canadian Dictionary\" in 1983, and a revised edition in 1997. (). The most recent editions are under the title \"Collins Gage Canadian dictionary\" (2009) and \"Nelson Gage Canadian paperback dictionary\" in 2013.\n\nAn abridged version was published as \"Gage Canadian concise dictionary\" in 2002, and a children's and intermediate versions in various years.\n\n"}
{"id": "19990389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19990389", "title": "Guinness World Records: The Videogame", "text": "Guinness World Records: The Videogame\n\nGuinness World Records: The Videogame is a party video game based on the Guinness World Records series of books of world records. Developed by TT Fusion and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, the game was released on November 7, 2008 in Europe and Australasia, and on November 11, 2008 in North America. The game involves attempting to beat real-life world records through minigames. The game saw mixed to positive reviews upon release, and was considered better than most minigame compilations that were on Nintendo consoles at the time.\n\n\"Guinness World Records: The Videogame\" contains 36 mini-games based on real-world record attempts. The player can select 12 avatars, and can travel around a globe- like map that allows them to select minigames. Beating minigames allows the player to unlock more minigames and outfits for their avatars. Minigames involve attempting to beat a world record as fast as possible, such as building the highest skyscraper in a Tetris style minigame, attempting the world's highest BMX stunt jump, and eating a jumbo jet as fast as possible. The player's score is placed on a scoreboard at the end of the round, and is then compared over the internet to other player's scores. The game shows trivia about real-life world records on the menu and during loading screens.\n\n\"Guinness World Records: The Videogame\" received mixed reviews from critics upon release. On Metacritic, the game holds scores of 70/100 for the Nintendo DS version based on 4 reviews, and 67/100 for the Wii version based on 12 reviews. On GameRankings, the game holds scores of 70.00% for the DS version based on 4 reviews, and 67.50% for the Wii version based on 16 reviews.\n\nReviewing the DS and Wii version for IGN, Mark Thomas praised the games strange minigames, comparing it positively to Warioware, before ending the review with, \"[...] But even then there are a couple of more fully-fledged gems in this pack that are addictive enough to warrant keeping the game handy long after you've been declared the best, the tallest, the strongest and the smartest with every record there is.\". Writing for Nintendo World Report and reviewing both versions, Francesca DiMola found the games lack of similarity to actual World Records disappointing and the games boring, saying, \"The lack of identity and direction is unfulfilling, and while a select group of mini-games are entertaining and original, many of them feel generic and bland.\". Writing for Eurogamer and reviewing the Wii version, Simon Parkin found the idea to be interesting, ending the review with \"[...] Guinness World Records is the best mini-game collection we've played on the Wii, in part because of the content but principally because of its context.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12819313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12819313", "title": "Hall of Central Harmony", "text": "Hall of Central Harmony\n\nThe Hall of Central Harmony () is one of the three halls of the Outer Court of the Forbidden City, in Beijing, China, along with the Hall of Supreme Harmony and Hall of Preserving Harmony. It is smaller than the other two halls, and is square in shape. It was used by the Emperor to prepare and rest before and during ceremonies.\n"}
{"id": "2222482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2222482", "title": "Helm Identification Guides", "text": "Helm Identification Guides\n\nThe Helm Identification Guides are a series of books that identify groups of birds. The series include two types of guides, those that are:\n\nEarly volumes were sometimes published under the Croom Helm or Christopher Helm imprints. In addition, a parallel set of guides, very similar in design, was published by Pica Press in the 1990s (marked Pica in the list below); Pica was later absorbed into A & C Black (now part of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc), and all guides are now marketed as a single series.\n\nSeveral of the books have won the British Birds \"Bird Book of the Year\" award.\nA list of titles in the series, in chronological order of publication, is as follows:\n\nNote: 'nW' indicates those that do not have worldwide coverage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6944042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6944042", "title": "Implicational hierarchy", "text": "Implicational hierarchy\n\nImplicational hierarchy, in linguistics, is a chain of implicational universals. A set of chained universals is schematically shown as in (1):\n\n(1) A < B < C < D\n\nIt can be reformulated in the following way: If a language has property D, then it also has properties A, B, and C; if a language has a property C, then it also has properties A and B, etc. In other words, the implicational hierarchy defines the possible combinations of properties A, B, C, and D as listed in matrix (2):\nImplicational hierarchies are a useful tool in capturing linguistic generalizations \npertaining the different components of the language. They are found in all subfields of grammar.\n\n(3) is an example of an implicational hierarchy concerning the distribution of nasal phonemes across languages, which concerns dental/alveolar, bilabial, and palatal voiced nasals, \nrespectively: \n(3) < < \n\nThis hierarchy defines the following possible combinations of dental/alveolar, bilabial, and palatal voiced nasals in \nthe phoneme inventory of a language:\n\n(4) \n\nIn other words, the hierarchy implies that there are no languages with but without and , or with and but without .\n\nNumber marking provides an example of implicational hierarchies in morphology.\n\n(5) Number: singular < plural < dual < trial / paucal\n\nOn the one hand, the hierarchy implies that no language distinguishes a trial unless having a dual, and no language has dual without a plural. On the other hand, the hierarchy provides implications for the morphological marking: if the plural is coded with a certain number of morphemes, then the dual is coded with at least as many morphemes.\n\nImplicational hierarchies also play a role in syntactic phenomena. For instance, in some languages (e.g. Tangut) the transitive verb agrees not with a subject, or the object, but with the syntactic argument which is higher on the person hierarchy.\n\n(5) Person: first < second < third\nSee also: animacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1104783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104783", "title": "Indogermanisches etymologisches Wörterbuch", "text": "Indogermanisches etymologisches Wörterbuch\n\nThe Indogermanisches etymologisches Wörterbuch (IEW; \"Indo-European Etymological Dictionary\") was published in 1959 by the Austrian-German comparative linguist and Celtic languages expert Julius Pokorny. It is an updated and slimmed-down reworking of the three-volume \"Vergleichendes Wörterbuch der indogermanischen Sprachen\" (1927–1932, by Alois Walde and Julius Pokorny).\n\nBoth of these works aim to provide an overview of the lexical knowledge of the Proto-Indo-European language accumulated through the early 20th century. The \"IEW\" is now significantly outdated, especially as it was conservative even when it was written, ignoring the now integral laryngeal theory, and hardly including any Anatolian material.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "549375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549375", "title": "Isaac Asimov bibliography (alphabetical)", "text": "Isaac Asimov bibliography (alphabetical)\n\n\"See also: Isaac Asimov bibliography (categorical), Isaac Asimov bibliography (chronological)\"\n\nThe goal of this article is to present a complete bibliography of the books written or edited by Isaac Asimov, arranged alphabetically. Since Asimov is one of the most prolific authors of all time, and since he engaged in many collaborations with other authors, this is a substantial research project. This list may not yet be complete. The total number of books listed here is over 500. Asimov died in 1992 at age 72. A small number of these books were published posthumously.\n\nSee also Isaac Asimov book series bibliography, Isaac Asimov short stories bibliography.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49168357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49168357", "title": "Kilim motifs", "text": "Kilim motifs\n\nMany motifs are used in traditional kilims, handmade flat-woven rugs, each with many variations. In Turkish Anatolia in particular, village women wove themes significant for their lives into their rugs, whether before marriage or during married life. Some motifs represent desires, such as for happiness and children; others, for protection against threats such as wolves (to the flocks) and scorpions, or against the evil eye. These motifs were often combined when woven into patterns on kilims. With the fading of tribal and village cultures in the 20th century, the meaning of kilim patterns has faded also.\n\nIn these tribal societies, women wove kilims at different stages of their lives, choosing themes appropriate to their own circumstances. Some of the motifs used are widespread across Anatolia and sometimes across other regions of West Asia, but patterns vary between tribes and villages, and rugs often expressed personal and social meaning.\n\nA Turkish kilim is a flat-woven rug from Anatolia. Although the name kilim is sometimes used loosely in the West to include all type of rug such as cicim, palaz, soumak and zili, in fact any type other than pile carpets, the name kilim properly denotes a specific weaving technique. Cicim, palaz, soumak and zili are made using three groups of threads, namely longitudinal warps, crossing wefts, and wrapping coloured threads. The wrapping threads give these rugs additional thickness and strength. Kilim in contrast are woven flat, using only warp and weft threads. Kilim patterns are created by winding the weft threads, which are coloured, backwards and forwards around pairs of warp threads, leaving the resulting weave completely flat. Kilim are therefore called flatweave or flatware rugs.\n\nTo create a sharp pattern, weavers usually end each pattern element at a particular thread, winding the coloured weft threads back around the same warps, leaving a narrow gap or slit. These are prized by collectors for the crispness of their decoration. The motifs on kilims woven in this way are constrained to be somewhat angular and geometric.\n\nIn tribal societies, kilim were woven by women at different stages of their lives: before marriage, in readiness for married life; while married, for her children; and finally, kilim for her own funeral, to be given to the mosque. Kilims thus had strong personal and social significance in tribal and village cultures, being made for personal and family use. Feelings of happiness or sorrow, hopes and fears were expressed in the weaving motifs. Many of these represent familiar household and personal objects, such as a hairband, a comb, an earring, a trousseau chest, a jug, a hook.\n\nThe meanings expressed in kilims derive both from the individual motifs used, and by their pattern and arrangement in the rug as a whole. A few symbols are widespread across Anatolia as well as other regions including Persia and the Caucasus; others are confined to Anatolia.\n\nAn especially widely used motif is the \", a stylized female figure, symbolizing motherhood and fertility. Other motifs express the tribal weavers' desires for protection of their families' flocks from wolves with the wolf's mouth or the wolf's foot motif (), or for safety from the sting of the scorpion (). Several protective motifs, such as those for the dragon (), scorpion, and spider (sometimes called the crab or tortoise by carpet specialists) share the same basic diamond shape with a hooked or stepped boundary, often making them very difficult to distinguish.\n\nSeveral motifs hope for the safety of the weaver's family from the evil eye (, also used as a motif), which could be divided into four with a cross symbol (), or averted with the symbol of a hook (), a human eye (), or an amulet (; often, a triangular package containing a sacred verse). The carpet expert Jon Thompson explains that such an amulet woven into a rug is not a theme: to the weaver, it actually is an amulet, conferring protection by its presence. In his words, to people in the village and tribal cultures that wove kilims, \"the device in the rug has a materiality, it generates a field of force able to interact with other unseen forces and is not merely an intellectual abstraction.\"\n\nOther motifs symbolised fertility, as with the trousseau chest motif (), or the explicit fertility () motif. The motif for running water () similarly depicts the resource literally. The desire to tie a family or lovers together could be depicted with a fetter motif (). Similarly, a tombstone motif may indicate not simply death, but the desire to die rather than to part from the beloved. Several motifs represented the desire for good luck and happiness, as for instance the bird () and the star or Solomon's seal (). The oriental symbol of Yin/Yang is used for love and unison (). Among the motifs used late in life, the Tree of Life () symbolizes the desire for immortality. Many of the plants used to represent the Tree of Life can also be seen as symbols of fruitfulness, fertility, and abundance. Thus the pomegranate, a tree whose fruits carry many seeds, implies the desire for many children.\n\nSymbols are often combined, as when the feminine elibelinde and the masculine ram's horn are each drawn twice, overlapping at the centre, forming a figure (some variants of the \"\" or fertility motif) of the sacred union of the principles of the sexes.\n\nAll the motifs can vary considerably in appearance according to the weaver. Colours, sizes and shapes can all be chosen according to taste and the tradition in a given village or tribe; further, motifs are often combined, as illustrated in the photographs above. To give some idea of this variability, a few alternative forms are shown in the table.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34367773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34367773", "title": "LINPACK benchmarks", "text": "LINPACK benchmarks\n\nThe LINPACK Benchmarks are a measure of a system's floating point computing power. Introduced by Jack Dongarra, they measure how fast a computer solves a dense \"n\" by \"n\" system of linear equations \"Ax\" = \"b\", which is a common task in engineering.\n\nThe latest version of these benchmarks is used to build the TOP500 list, ranking the world's most powerful supercomputers.\n\nThe aim is to approximate how fast a computer will perform when solving real problems. It is a simplification, since no single computational task can reflect the overall performance of a computer system. Nevertheless, the LINPACK benchmark performance can provide a good correction over the peak performance provided by the manufacturer. The peak performance is the maximal theoretical performance a computer can achieve, calculated as the machine's frequency, in cycles per second, times the number of operations per cycle it can perform. The actual performance will always be lower than the peak performance. The performance of a computer is a complex issue that depends on many interconnected variables. The performance measured by the LINPACK benchmark consists of the number of 64-bit floating-point operations, generally additions and multiplications, a computer can perform per second, also known as FLOPS. However, a computer's performance when running actual applications is likely to be far behind the maximal performance it achieves running the appropriate LINPACK benchmark.\n\nThe name of these benchmarks comes from the LINPACK package, a collection of algebra Fortran subroutines widely used in the 1980s, and initially tightly linked to the LINPACK benchmark. The LINPACK package has been since then replaced by other libraries.\n\nThe LINPACK benchmark report appeared first in 1979 as an appendix to the LINPACK user's manual.\n\nLINPACK was designed to help users estimate the time required by their systems to solve a problem using the LINPACK package, by extrapolating the performance results obtained by 23 different computers solving a matrix problem of size 100.\n\nThis matrix size was chosen due to memory and CPU limitations at that time:\n\n\nOver the years, additional versions with different problem sizes, like matrices of order 300 and 1000, and constraints were released, allowing new optimization opportunities as hardware architectures started to implement matrix-vector and matrix-matrix operations.\n\nParallel processing was also introduced in the LINPACK Parallel benchmark in the late 1980s.\n\nIn 1991 the LINPACK was modified for\nsolving problems of arbitrary size, enabling high performance computers (HPC) to get near to their asymptotic performance.\n\nTwo years later this benchmark was used for measuring the performance of the first TOP500 list.\n\nLINPACK 100 is very similar to the original benchmark published in 1979 along with the LINPACK users' manual.\nThe solution is obtained by Gaussian elimination with partial pivoting, with 2/3n³ + 2n² floating point operations where \"n\" is 100, the order of the dense matrix \"A\" that defines the problem. Its small size and the lack of software flexibility doesn't allow most modern computers to reach their performance limits. However, it can still be useful to predict performances in numerically intensive user written code using compiler optimization.\n\nLINPACK 1000 can provide a performance nearer to the machine's limit because in addition to offering a bigger problem size, a matrix of order 1000, changes in the algorithm are possible. The only constraints are that the relative accuracy can't be reduced and the number of operations will always be considered to be 2/3n³ + 2n², with n = 1000.\n\nThe previous benchmarks are not suitable for testing parallel computers, and the so-called Linpack's Highly Parallel Computing benchmark, or HPLinpack benchmark, was introduced. In HPLinpack the size n of the problem can be made as large as it is needed to optimize the performance results of the machine. Once again, 2/3n³ + 2n² will be taken as the operation count, with independence of the algorithm used. Use of the Strassen algorithm is not allowed because it distorts the real execution rate.\nThe accuracy must be such that the following expression is satisfied:\n\nformula_1, where formula_2 is the machine's precision, and \"n\" is the size of the problem, formula_3 is the matrix norm and formula_4 corresponds to the big-O notation.\n\nFor each computer system, the following quantities are reported:\n\n\nThese results are used to compile the TOP500 list twice a year, with the world's most powerful computers.\n\nThe previous section describes the ground rules for the benchmarks. The actual implementation of the program can diverge, with some examples being available in Fortran, C\n\nHPL is a portable implementation of HPLinpack that was written in C, originally as a guideline, but that is now widely used to provide data for the TOP500 list, though other technologies and packages can be used. HPL generates a linear system of equations of order n and solves it using LU decomposition with partial row pivoting. It requires installed implementations of MPI and either BLAS or VSIPL to run.\n\nCoarsely, the algorithm has the following characteristics:\n\n\nThe LINPACK benchmark is said to have succeeded because of the scalability of HPLinpack, the fact that it generates a single number, making the results easily comparable and the extensive historical data base it has associated.\nHowever, soon after its release, the LINPACK benchmark was criticized for providing performance levels \"generally unobtainable by all but a very few programmers who tediously optimize their code for that machine and that machine alone\", because it only tests the resolution of dense linear systems, which are not representative of all the operations usually performed in scientific computing.\nJack Dongarra, the main driving force behind the LINPACK benchmarks, said that, while they only emphasize \"peak\" CPU speed and number of CPUs, not enough stress is given to local bandwidth and the network.\n\nThom Dunning, Jr., director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications, had this to say about the LINPACK benchmark: \"The Linpack benchmark is one of those interesting phenomena -- almost anyone who knows about it will deride its utility. They understand its limitations but it has mindshare because it's the one number we've all bought into over the years.\"\n\nAccording to Dongarra, \"the organizers of the Top500 are actively looking to expand the scope of the benchmark reporting\" because \"it is important to include more performance characteristic and signatures for a given system\".\nOne of the possibilities that is being considered to extend the benchmark for the TOP500 is the HPC Challenge Benchmark Suite. With the advent of petascale computers, traversed edges per second have started to emerge as an alternative metric to FLOPS measured by LINPACK. Another alternative is the HPCG benchmark, proposed by Dongarra.\n\nAccording to Jack Dongarra, the running time required to obtain good performance results with HPLinpack is expected to increase. At a conference held in 2010, he said he expects running times of 2.5 days in \"a few years\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1429382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1429382", "title": "Lassen Fragment", "text": "Lassen Fragment\n\nThe Lassen Fragment, is a parchment page from c. 1275. It is one of the four fragments remaining of the original, or early copy of, Saxo's Gesta Danorum. Size is 40x27 cm. It consists of one page with two written sides.\n\nIt was found 1860 in the literary remains of library-secretary \"G. F. Lassen\", and is now owned by the Royal Library of Copenhagen. It has Royal Library signature of \"Ny kgl. Saml. Fol. 570\".\n\nCorrespond to page 275-282 in Peter Erasmus Müller Latin version of \"Gesta Danorum\" from 1839 or page 152.29 – 156.14 in Jørgen Olrik & H. Ræder's Latin version of \"Gesta Danorum\" from 1931.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7414094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7414094", "title": "List of W. S. Gilbert dramatic works", "text": "List of W. S. Gilbert dramatic works\n\nThe dramatist and author W. S. Gilbert wrote approximately 80 dramatic works during his career, as well as light verse, short stories and other works. He is best remembered for his series of 14 libretti for his joint operatic works with the composer Arthur Sullivan, but many of his other dramatic works were popular successes.\n\nIn the following list, the title of each work appears in the first column, along with any further information (such as the source of an adaptation). The genre appears in the second column, and if the piece had music, the composer's name is listed in parentheses. The theatre and date of first performance appear in the third and fourth columns. All theatres were in London, unless otherwise stated. The works are listed in the approximate order of composition. (In a few cases, the first performance was many years after the work was first published.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14140176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14140176", "title": "List of jail and prison museums", "text": "List of jail and prison museums\n\nMuseums have been created from many former jails and prisons.\n\nSome old jails converted into museums are listed under the original name of the jail, especially if listed on the US National Register of Historic Places. For example, see Old St. Johns County Jail in St Augustine, Florida. \n\nMuseums with a main purpose not associated with the jail or prison in which they are located are listed separately, below the main list.\n\nTo use the sortable table, click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order. \n\n"}
{"id": "12740958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12740958", "title": "List of numismatic collections", "text": "List of numismatic collections\n\nMany history and cultural museums have large numismatic collections (coins, money, and tokens). Some museums are specifically dedicated to the history of money or coins, while others have major collections amongst other material. Many small museums often have important collections of coins from their local area or important archaeological sites.\n"}
{"id": "20301976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20301976", "title": "Nabi Shu'ayb", "text": "Nabi Shu'ayb\n\nNabi Shu'ayb (also transliterated Neby Shoaib or Nabi Shuaib, meaning \"the Prophet Shu'ayb\") is a Druze religious prophet, traditionally identified with the biblical Jethro, whose possible shrine/tomb is believed to be located near Kfar Zeitim, not far from Tiberias, Israel. The identification of Shu'ayb with Jethro, however, is a Druze tradition rather than historical fact (see Shuaib). Prophet shu'ayb is the 14th prophet.\nNabi Shuayb was an object of traditional veneration by Druze through Palestine. The shrine figured down to Israeli-Arab war of 1948 as a place where Druze took vows (\"nidhr\") and made \"ziyarat\" (\"pilgrimages\"). After the 1948 war, Israel placed the Maqam (shrine) under exclusive Druze care. A central figure in the Druze religion, the tomb of Nabi Shuaib, has been a site of annual pilgrimage for the Druze for centuries. Shrines dedicated to Nabi Shuaib are common throughout the Greater Syria region.\n\nIn Druze tradition, it is believed that towards the end of his life, Shu'ayb took refuge in a cave outside Hittin (a village just west of Tiberias), where he would die in old age. His followers buried him at the site and placed a tombstone at his grave. Another Druze tradition holds that the Ayyubid sultan Saladin had a dream the night prior to the Battle of Hittin in which an angel promised him victory on the condition that after the battle, he would ride his horse westward; then, where the horse would stop, the angel said he would find the burial site of Shu'ayb. The tradition holds that when Saladin's dream was realized, the Druze built a shrine for Shu'ayb at the site.\n\nNabi Shu'ayb has been expanded and renovated over time. The older section of the existing structure was built in the 1880s, under the direction of Sheikh Muhanna Tarif, the \"shaykh al-aql\" (Druze spiritual leader) of Julis. Sheikh Muhanna summoned an assembly of religious leaders in the community to discuss and collaborate on its construction. A delegation of high-ranking community members traveled to Syria and Lebanon in order to collect funds for new construction and renovations and the local Druze of the Galilee and Mount Carmel also made considerable contributions.\n\nAfter Israel's establishment in 1948, and the total depopulation of Hittin which had been a predominantly Muslim village, the Druze were granted full custodianship over the tomb, and an additional 100 dunams surrounding it. Under the leadership of Sheikh Amin Tarif, the shrine was then renovated and numerous rooms were added for the hosting of pilgrims. The Israeli government also paved the road leading to Nabi Shu'ayb and provided electricity and water infrastructure services there.\n\nThe first mention of the tomb dates back to the 12th century CE, and the Druze have held religious festivals there for centuries. According to Druze tradition, the imprint of Shuaib's left foot (\"da'sa\") can be seen on the grave. Pilgrims visiting the site pour oil into the imprint, and then rub the oil over their body in order to be blessed with good fortune.\n\nThe Druze customarily had no fixed date for their annual pilgrimage, which generally occurred sometime in the spring. When the Israeli government granted official recognition of the pilgrimage as a Druze religious holiday, the dates were standardized, such that the event now takes place between April 25 and April 28. During the festivities, mass celebrations are held at Nabi Shu'aib, and Druze religious leaders gather there for ritual purposes and to discuss religious questions. Prior to Israel's establishment, Druze from Syria and Lebanon also used to participate in the festival, but are no longer able to do so today.\n\n"}
{"id": "7914035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7914035", "title": "Names of European cities in different languages (M–P)", "text": "Names of European cities in different languages (M–P)\n\nNerja\n"}
{"id": "50429074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50429074", "title": "Pelican files", "text": "Pelican files\n\nThe Pelican files (Turkish: \"Pelikan dosyası\") refer to an unattributed list of 27 different items released in April 2016 detailing points of conflict between the Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu and President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, two politicians from the Justice and Development Party of Turkey who assumed their respective offices on 28 August 2014. Released by unnamed Erdoğan supporters as a WordPress.com blog, the files heavily criticised Davutoğlu for disobeying Erdoğan's political agenda. The release of the files were widely attributed to sparking the events that would eventually lead to Davutoğlu being ousted as Prime Minister. The name \"Pelican files\" is a reference to the 1993 political thriller \"The Pelican Brief\".\n\nThe files were released at a time when relations between Davutoğlu and Erdoğan had deteriorated sharply. Rumours that Davutoğlu had submitted his resignation as Prime Minister were followed by the AKP Central Executive Decision Committee (MKYK) revoking Davutoğlu's right to appoint provincial and district party representatives. On 4 May 2016, a day earlier than planned, Davutoğlu and Erdoğan held a meeting at the Presidential Complex. Although it was initially dubbed as a 'routine meeting' by presidential staff, the meeting was followed shortly after by a decision by the AKP to hold an Extraordinary Congress in 2016 in which Davutoğlu would not stand as a leadership candidate.\n\nThe publication and aim of the \"memorandum\" was predicted by blogger Fuat Avni. On 19 April 2016 he wrote that Erdoğan was planning a \"coup against Davutoğlu\" and that the \"pelican\" of \"Berat and Serhat\" (a reference to Erdoğan's son-in-law and his brother) was about to fly. It is described as a palace coup d'état in Turkish social media and other sources.\n\nThe Justice and Development Party (AKP), founded by the current President and former Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, has been in power ever since winning the 2002 general elections by a landslide. In the 2014 presidential election, Erdoğan ran as the AKP's candidate and was elected President with 51.79% of the vote, naming Davutoğlu as his successor as party leader and Prime Minister. Many commentators claimed that Davutoğlu would take a submissive approach as Prime Minister while Erdoğan continued pursuing his political agenda as President, including the establishment of an executive presidency that would boost his powers. The Pelican files released in April 2016 detailed disagreements between Erdoğan and Davutoğlu on several issues concerning both national and inner-party political developments.\nThe 27 items detailed in the Pelican files are listed below.\nThe release of the Pelican files were seen as proof of several earlier media reports of growing rifts between Davutoğlu and Erdoğan, though the Presidency denied any involvement with its release. In early May, the AKP's Central Executive Decision Committee (MKYK) voted to revoke the leader's ability to appoint provincial and district party representatives and instead delegated that power to the MKYK as a whole. On 3 May, Davutoğlu gave a speech at an AKP parliamentary group meeting that was interpreted by the press as a 'resignation speech' due to its short length. Rumours emerged that Davutoğlu had submitted his resignation to the Presidency earlier. \n\nOn 4 May 2016, Davutoğlu met with Erdoğan at the Presidential Complex, a day earlier than the usual Thursday weekly meeting. The meeting lasted for 1 hour and 40 minutes, after which neither the Presidency or the Prime Minister's Office made a statement, although the Presidency claimed that the meeting was 'routine'. Shortly after, it was declared that Davutoğlu would assemble the party MKYK before making a public speech at another parliamentary group meeting of AKP MPs. At the same time, it was reported that the party had taken the decision to call an Extraordinary Congress. Davutoğlu would not stand for re-election as party leader and commentators claimed that a pro-Erdoğan would become the AKP's next leader.\n\n"}
{"id": "4973673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973673", "title": "Personal wiki", "text": "Personal wiki\n\nA personal wiki is wiki software that allows individual users to organize information on their desktop or mobile computing devices in a manner similar to community wikis, but without collaborative software or multiple users.\n\nPersonal wiki software can be broadly divided into two categories:\n\n\nSome personal wikis are public but password-protected, and run on dedicated web servers or are hosted by third parties.\n\nMulti-user wiki applications with personal editions include:\n\nThere are also wiki applications designed for personal use, apps for mobile use, and apps for use from USB flash drives. They often include more features than traditional wikis, including:\nNotable examples include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7630939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7630939", "title": "Peter Sauer", "text": "Peter Sauer\n\nPeter Sauer (February 2, 1900 - September 11, 1949), was an American professional wrestler, better known by the ring name Ray Steele. He was born and raised in Norka, a German colony in Russia, in 1900 before immigrating to Lincoln, Nebraska in 1906.\n\nSteele worked a catch wrestling style in his early career. 16 May 1934 he wrestled Orville Brown to a 30-minute draw. He gained some notoriety in 1936 when he faced heavyweight boxing contender Kingfish Levinsky in a mixed match, which Steele won in 35 seconds. Steele's biggest accomplishment in the sport was winning the National Wrestling Association's World Heavyweight Championship from Bronko Nagurski in St. Louis, Missouri on March 7, 1940. Steele would hold the belt for over a year before losing it back to Bronko Nagurski on March 11, 1941 in Houston, Texas.\n\nSauer served as a mentor to many young stars, including Lou Thesz before his death of a heart attack in September 1949.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45626084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45626084", "title": "Priceza", "text": "Priceza\n\nPriceza is a shopping search engine and price comparison tool, with local websites in six Southeast Asian countries: Thailand (since 2010), Indonesia (since 2013), Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Vietnam. The company was started in January 2010 in Bangkok, Thailand, by three computer science engineers: Thanawat Malabuppa, Vachara Nicatatphand, and Wirod Supadul. It is Thailand’s first, and currently ranked at number one with 85% market share in the e-commerce business.\n\nThe company runs 6 local websites as follows:\n\nPriceza Thailand - www.Priceza.com <br>\nPriceza Indonesia - www.Priceza.co.id <br>\nPriceza Malaysia - www.Priceza.com.my <br>\nPriceza Singapore - www.Priceza.com.sg <br>\nPriceza Philippines - www.Priceza.com.ph <br>\nPriceza Vietnam - www.Priceza.com.vn <br><br>\n\nPriceza operates in its markets by establishing business partnerships with merchants and retailers to provide information and price lists on a wide range of products. The company is partnered with companies like Lazada, Zalora, Central Group, Groupon, Rakuten, which has products in their price comparison database. As of 2014, the website has 5,000 stores on Priceza Thailand and another 5,000 stores on Priceza Indonesia, with a total amount of 1.6 million products in Thailand and two million products in Indonesia.[9] In 2017, Priceza has launched the new service called “Priceza Money” accessible at money.priceza.com. The new service is a comparison platform of financial products such as car insurance, credit cards and personal loan. The service is available only in Thailand at the present. In the near future, Priceza Money expects to expand its platform on other financial products and services in order to meet user’s need and enhance their financial management.\n\nIn 2013 CyberAgent Ventures, a Japanese venture capital company, invested in Priceza.\n\nIn 2016 the venture arm of Hubert Burda Media, Burda Principal Investments invested in Priceza.\n"}
{"id": "6081447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6081447", "title": "Psephos", "text": "Psephos\n\nPsephos: Adam Carr's Electoral Archive is an online archive of election statistics, and claims to be the world's largest online resource of such information. Psephos is maintained by Dr Adam Carr, of Melbourne, Australia, a historian and former aide to Australian MP Michael Danby and Senator David Feeney. It includes detailed statistics for presidential and legislative elections from 182 countries, with at least some statistics for every country that has what Carr considers to be genuine national elections. \n\n\"Psephos\" is a Greek word meaning \"pebble\", a reference to the Ancient Greek method of voting by dropping pebbles into urns, and is the root of the word psephology, the study of elections. \n\nCarr began accumulating Australian election statistics in the mid-1980s, with the intention of publishing a complete print edition of Australian national elections statistics dating back to 1901. With the advent of the World Wide Web, Carr abandoned this idea and began to place election statistics at his personal website. In 2001 he founded Psephos, and began to include statistics from other countries. He has also included historical statistics, such as figures for all U.S. presidential elections and for British House of Commons elections since 1900. \n\nIn 2015 Carr added a complete archive of election statistics for the Australian state of Victoria, dating back to 1843.\n\nPsephos is more noted, however, for locating less easily accessible statistics and placing them online. These include constituency-level figures for Japanese legislative elections, which are not available in English anywhere else on the internet, and figures from countries as obscure as Andorra, Equatorial Guinea, São Tomé and Príncipe and Tuvalu. These figures are obtained from a variety of sources, including government election websites, media websites and political party websites. Increasingly, statistics are sent directly to Carr by psephologists, academics and political activists in the countries concerned.\n\nThe archive also includes Carr's original electoral maps at constituency level for a number or countries, including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, India, Japan, Mexico and the U.S.. \n\nMatthew M. Singer, a specialist in election studies at Duke University, wrote:\nPsephos: Adam Carr's Electoral Archive is maintained by Australian journalist Adam Carr and contains election results for 163 countries as well as many sub-national entities. While not all the results are at the district level, in many cases the Psephos archive is the only online source for electoral data (especially for small countries). Another strength of the Psephos archive is that while many national-sources remove the links to previous election results as the new elections approach, the Psephos archive does not delete old-election results. \n\nThis archive, however, has two small drawbacks. First, small parties are often compiled into an \"Other\" category that for some studies, especially those interested in representation, political fragmentation, or the success of ethnic or gender parties, is a potential problem. Second, like the University of Essex data, the results in the Psephos archive are presented with each candidate/party in a given district presented in a unique row. As a result, scholars must convert the data to a spreadsheet and then data manipulation, often a considerable amount, is required to make analysis of trends at the district level possible.\n\nDespite these drawbacks, the Psephos archive is an invaluable source of electoral data cross-sectionally and over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "41094273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41094273", "title": "Reunion (advertisement)", "text": "Reunion (advertisement)\n\nReunion is a 2013 Google India advertisement for Google Search. It was directed by Amit Sharma, written by Sukesh Kumar Nayak, produced by an Ogilvy India branch of Ogilvy & Mather, and published on YouTube on November 13, 2013. \"Reunion\" is about the fictional reunion between two elderly men, Baldev Mehra (Vishwa Mohan Badola) from India and Yusuf (Mysore Shrinivas Sathyu) from Pakistan. They were separated as children during the Partition of India.\n\nIt has had a strong impact in both India and Pakistan, leading to hope for the easing of travel restrictions between the two countries. It went viral and was viewed more than 1.6 million times before officially debuting on television on November 15, 2013.\n\nBaldev Mehra (Vishwa Mohan Badola) is an elderly Hindu man in Delhi, India, and Yusuf (Mysore Shrinivas Sathyu) is an elderly Muslim man in Lahore, Pakistan. One day Baldev shows his granddaughter Suman (Auritra Ghosh) an old, dated photograph of two children. He tells her that it is himself and his best friend Yusuf when they lived in Lahore prior to the Partition of India in 1947. In front of his house there was a park with a gate made in the stone age and each evening he and Yusuf would fly kites there and \"steal\" Jhajariyas from Yusuf's family sweet shop. When Partition came, however, Baldev and his family had to leave for India overnight. Many decades later, Baldev still thinks of Yusuf and misses him.\n\nUsing details of her grandfather's story, Sumon is able to locate Yusuf's sweet shop in Lahore via her laptop and Google. She connects with his grandson Ali (Syed Shabahat Ali) who helps her to plan a surprise visit from Yusuf on Baldev's birthday.\n\n\nAccording to Sukesh Kumar Nayak, Group Creative Director of Ogilvy Mumbai, Google had stated in their brief that \"the only thing they wanted was to see [...] how meaningful the search engine is in real life.\" Nayak also stated that they wanted to make \"the connection between real life and Google, magical.\" \"Reunion\" was filmed \"in different areas in Delhi, including an old Haveli in Connaught Place, Red Fort, India Gate, and a small scene in Lahore, Pakistan.\" Singer Clinton Cerejo composed the music for the spot.\n\n\"The Star (Malaysia)\" notes that \"Reunion\" has \"gone viral online, reflecting demands in the two countries for closer people-to-people ties [...] Internet users left thousands of comments on social networking sites describing how the advert had brought them to tears and renewed their hopes for improved relations between the two neighbours.\" Max Fisher of \"The Washington Post\" states that \"if you are from South Asia, have family from South Asia, or are merely friends on Facebook with someone who has ties to the subcontinent, you've already seen this video posted to social media in the 48 hours since it went up. In case you haven't, it's a Google advertisement, about three and a half minutes, well worth your time. Yes, it's an ad, meant to prod people in one of the world's largest markets into using Google services. And in that context it can be a bit syrupy. But take a step back for a moment, and try to appreciate what makes this video so powerful that it's already been viewed 1.8 million times.\" \"India Today\" states that \"the new Google ad, titled \"Reunion\", touches the raw nerves that linger dormant under the skin of those who were separated during the heady days of Partition [….] While this may have been only an ad, there are many people both in Pakistan and India who will be able to relate to this emotional ad.\" Affan Chowdhry of \"The Globe and Mail\" states that \"with nearly a million YouTube views over two days, a new Google ad that tells the story of two old friends reuniting after six decades of separation following the creation of India and Pakistan in 1947 has touched a deep nerve for many South Asians.\" Nilanjana Bhowmick of \"Time (magazine)\" observes that \"despite the tensions between the governments of India and Pakistan, this commercial, released by Google India on Wednesday, makes the point that the personal connections between Indians and Pakistanis run deep.\" Journalist Beena Sarwar states that \"if it doesn’t move you, you’ve got a heart of stone.\" Sunny Peter of the \"International Business Times\" argues that \"at a time when governments in both countries continue to be suspicious of each other's intent, the Google video comes as a welcome relief. [If only] the visa regime between both the countries was as easy as Google search.\" Ritu Singh of \"Zee News\" states that \"Reunion\" struck \"an emotional chord with its viewers not only in India but also in Pakistan\" as it \"depicts the pain of partition which still haunts the mind of people who got separated from their loved ones and places.\" She also states, \"this heart warming ad is sure to overwhelm you.\" Mrigaa Sethi of Quartz (publication) talks about her family's experience with partition, noting that \"Google’s India office has created a tear-jerker ad that is deeply resonant for Indians and Pakistanis with family stories like mine. It shows an aging Hindu Indian man waxing nostalgic to his granddaughter about his Muslim childhood friend in Lahore before the partition [...] The ad, created by Ogilvy, has struck a particularly emotional chord by refusing to take India and Pakistan’s historically adversarial relationship as a given.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "48018042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48018042", "title": "Serbian Action", "text": "Serbian Action\n\nSerbian Action () is an ultranationalist and neo-nazi movement, active in Serbia since 2010.\n\nIdeals of Serbian Action are largely based on teachings of saint Nikolaj Velimirović and Serbian politician Dimitrije Ljotić, leader of pro-Italian and pro-Nazi fascist movement Yugoslav National Movement. Orthodox Christianity is seen as one of the main pillars of society and they are strongly against secularism, advocating for the restoration of Orthodox monarchy that would be \"\"expressed through the testamental Serbian vertical: God - King – Homekeeper\". Greater cooperation between Christian Orthodox nations are presented as alternative to EU integrations. Serbian Action also holds strong anti-democratic views and expresses the idea of Parliament made up of representatives of professions rather than representatives of political parties. Considering themselves as pan-European and anti-Zionist, their actions are against multiculturalism, promotion of LGBT rights and drug legalization and for preservation of Serbian people and their biological survival. \n\nActivists of Serbian Action are encouraged to improve themselves spiritually and physically, all in purpose to become a \"political soldier\".\n\nSerbian Action became more known to the public in late 2014, when authorities arrested some of their members for hate speech, for distributing flyers against illegal settlements of Romani people.\n\nAfter the outbreak of civil unrest in Ukraine, a couple of activists from Serbian Action volunteered and fought in Donbass. They have criticized the Serbian government for tolerating the volunteering of people to ISIS, but persecuting volunteers from Ukraine.\nIn 2014, Serbian Action members attended a yearly Polish march in support of the Serbian claim on Kosovo, named \"Kosowo jest serbskie\"\" (Kosovo is Serbia).\nIn May 2014, during the large floods, activists of Serbian Action volunteered with supplies and men to help people that were affected by the tragedy.\n\nOn the 11th of July, Serbian Action published a text on their site, \"Ђенерале, хвала ти!\" (\"General, thank you!\"), giving thanks to Ratko Mladić for the liberation of Srebrenica, where they say that the massacre of 5.000 Bosniaks is Western anti-Serbian propaganda.\n\nOn the 22nd of March 2015, Serbian Action attended a Russian international conservative forum.\n\nSerbian Action is also active on universities, organizing meetings and protests. The authority banned their meetings on the subject of Communist crimes, in response to which Serbian Action claimed that the Communists and their repressions are still present in universities.\n\nIn 2015 they organized a student march to mark 20 years since Operation Storm, and to protest Croatian celebration of it. Thousands attended the march.\n\nDuring the peak of the immigrant crisis in Europe, Serbian Action called for a racist protest against immigration and asylum seekers. The protest was banned by Serbian police, who prevented anyone from attending.\n\nOn the 19th of September, Serbian Action organized a march with the slogan \"For healthy Serbia\". It was a counter-march to an LGBT parade. Around one thousand people attended.\n\nThey are known for glorification of Milan Nedić, the leader of the Serbian puppet government during World War II, who\ncollaborated with the Germans and was responsible for prosecution of Jews and Serbian communists during war.\n\nSerbian Action has strong cooperation with Greek nationalist party Golden Dawn. They have exchanged visits on marches and supported each other. In 2013 activists of Serbian Action demonstrated and distributed propaganda material in support of persecuted members of Golden Dawn. In the same year, Golden Dawn representative joined and supported march of Serbian Action. In 2015, Serbian Action congratulated Golden Dawn on their result of 7,5% vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "356069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356069", "title": "Silesian language", "text": "Silesian language\n\nSilesian or Upper Silesian ( / ; ; , ; ) is a West Slavic lect, part of its Lechitic group. Its vocabulary has been significantly influenced by Central German due to the existence of numerous Silesian German speakers in the area prior to World War II and after, until the 1990s.\n\nThere is no consensus on whether Silesian is a separate language or a somewhat divergent dialect of Polish.\n\nSilesian speakers currently live in the region of Upper Silesia, which is split between southwestern Poland and the northeastern Czech Republic. At present Silesian is commonly spoken in the area between the historical border of Silesia on the east and a line from Syców to Prudnik on the west as well as in the Rawicz area. Until 1945 Silesian was also spoken in enclaves in Lower Silesia.\n\nLower Silesian, a variety of Central German, was spoken by the ethnic German majority population of that region. The German speaking populace was either evacuated en masse by German forces towards the end of the war or deported by the new administration upon the Polish annexation of Silesia after World War II. Before the war, most Slavic speakers also spoke German and, at least in eastern Upper Silesia, many German-speakers were acquainted with Slavic Silesian. \n\nAccording to the last official census in Poland in 2011, about 509,000 people declared Silesian as their native language (in census 2002, about 60,000), and in the censuses in Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia, nearly 0.9 million people declared Silesian nationality.\n\nAlthough the morphological differences between Silesian and Polish have been researched extensively, other grammatical differences have not been studied in depth. One example is that, in contrast with Polish, Silesian retains separate past conditional ( — \"I would have slipped\").\n\nAnother major difference is in question-forming. In Polish, questions that do not contain interrogative words are formed either by using intonation or the interrogative particle . In Silesian, questions that do not contain interrogative words are formed by using intonation (with a markedly different intonation pattern than in Polish) or inversion (e.g. ); there is no interrogative particle.\n\nAccording to Jan Miodek, standard Polish has been always used by Upper Silesians as a language of prayers.\nThe Lord's Prayer in Silesian, Polish, Czech, and English.\n\nSilesian has many dialects:\n\n\nOpinions are divided among linguists regarding whether Silesian is a distinct language, a dialect of Polish, or in the case of Lach, a variety of Czech. The issue can be contentious, because some Silesians consider themselves to be a distinct nationality within Poland. When Czechs, Poles, and Germans each made claims to substantial parts of Silesia as constituting an integral part of their respective nation-states in the 19th and 20th centuries, the language of Slavic speaking Silesians became politicized. \n\nSome, like Óndra Łysohorsky, a poet and author in the Czechoslovakia, saw the Silesians as being their own distinct people, which culminated in his effort to create a literary standard he called the \"Lachian language.\" Silesian inhabitants supporting the cause of each of these ethnic groups had their own robust network of supporters across Silesia's political borders which shifted over the course of the 20th century prior to the large-scale ethnic cleansing in the aftermath of World War II.\n\nSome linguists from Poland such as Jolanta Tambor, Juan Lajo, Dr Tomasz Wicherkiewicz and philosopher Dr hab Jerzy Dadaczyński, sociologist Dr Elżbieta Anna Sekuła and sociolinguist Tomasz Kamusella support its status as a language. According to Stanisław Rospond, it is impossible to classify Silesian as a dialect of the contemporary Polish language because he considers it to be descended from the Old Polish language. Other Polish linguists, such as Jan Miodek and Edward Polański, do not support its status as a language. Jan Miodek and Dorota Simonides, both of Silesian origin, prefer conservation of the entire range of Silesian dialects rather than standardization.\nThe German linguist Reinhold Olesch was eagerly interested about the \"Polish vernaculars\" of Upper Silesia and other Slavic varieties such as Kashubian and Polabian.\n\nMost linguists writing in English, such as Alexander M. Schenker, Robert A. Rothstein, and Roland Sussex and Paul Cubberley in their respective surveys of Slavic languages, list Silesian as a dialect of Polish, as does \"Encyclopædia Britannica\".\n\nGerd Hentschel wrote \"\" (\"Silesian ... can thus ... without doubt be described as a dialect of Polish\").\n\nIn the Czech Republic, disagreement exists concerning the Lach dialects which rose to prominence thanks to Óndra Łysohorsky and his translator Ewald Osers.\n\nThere have been a number of attempts at codifying the language spoken by Slavophones in Silesia. Probably the most well-known was undertaken by Óndra Łysohorsky when codifying the Lachian dialects in creating the Lachian literary language in the early 20th century.\n\nŚlabikŏrzowy szrajbōnek is the relatively new alphabet created by the Pro Loquela Silesiana organization to reflect the sounds of all Silesian dialects. It was approved by Silesian organizations affiliated in Rada Górnośląska. Ubuntu translation is in this alphabet as is the Silesian Wikipedia. It is used in a few books, including the Silesian alphabet book.\n\nOne of the first alphabets created specifically for Silesian was \"Steuer's Silesian alphabet\", created in the Interwar period and used by Feliks Steuer for his poems in Silesian. The alphabet consists of 30 graphemes and eight digraphs:\n\nBased on the Steuer alphabet, in 2006 the \"Phonetic Silesian Alphabet\" was proposed:\n\nSilesian's phonetic alphabet replaces the digraphs with single letters (Sz with Š, etc.) and does not include the letter Ł, whose sound can be represented phonetically with U. It is therefore the alphabet that contains the fewest letters. Although it is the (phonetically) most logical and hence the most intuitive writing of Silesian, it did not become popular with Silesian organizations, with the argument that it contains too many caron diacritics and hence resembles the Czech alphabet. Large parts of the Silesian Wikipedia, however, are written in Silesian's phonetic alphabet.\n\nSometimes other alphabets are also used, such as the \"Tadzikowy muster\" (for the \"National Dictation Contest of the Silesian language\") or the Polish alphabet, but writing in this alphabet is problematic as it does not allow for the differentiation and representation of all Silesian sounds.\n\nSilesian has recently seen an increased use in culture, for example:\n\nIn 2003, the National Publishing Company of Silesia () commenced operations. This publisher was founded by the Alliance of the People of the Silesian Nation () and it prints books about Silesia and books in Silesian language.\n\nIn July 2007, the Slavic Silesian language was given the ISO 639-3 code codice_1.\n\nOn 6 September 2007, 23 politicians of the Polish parliament made a statement about a new law to give Silesian the official status of a regional language.\n\nThe first official National Dictation Contest of the Silesian language () took place in August 2007. In dictation as many as 10 forms of writing systems and orthography have been accepted.\n\nOn 30 January 2008 and in June 2008, two organizations promoting Silesian language were established: Pro Loquela Silesiana and .\n\nOn 26 May 2008, the Silesian Wikipedia was founded.\n\nOn 30 June 2008 in the edifice of the Silesian Parliament in Katowice, a conference took place on the status of the Silesian language. This conference was a forum for politicians, linguists, representatives of interested organizations and persons who deal with the Silesian language. The conference was titled \"Silesian — Still a Dialect or Already a Language?\" ().\n\nIn 2012, the Ministry of Administration and Digitization registered the Silesian language in Annex 1 to the Regulation on the state register of geographical names; however, in a November 2013 amendment to the regulation, Silesian is not included.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6574853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6574853", "title": "Série noire", "text": "Série noire\n\nSérie noire is a French publishing imprint, founded in 1945 by Marcel Duhamel. It has released a collection of crime fiction of the hardboiled detective thrillers variety published by Gallimard.\n\nAnglo-American literature forms the bulk of their collection: it features especially Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett, Horace McCoy, William R. Burnett, Ed McBain, Chester Himes, Lou Cameron, Jim Thompson, Rene Brabazon Raymond (under his pseudonym James Hadley Chase) and Peter Cheney. Books from the series were adapted into episodes on the 1984 television series of the same name.\n\nThis name became a generic term for works of detective, and is considered having inspired the French critic Nino Frank to create in 1946 the phrase Film noir, which describes Hollywood crime dramas.\n\nIn common parlance, today, the term also means a series of dramatic events with similarities, or affecting the same victims.\n\n"}
{"id": "45043512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45043512", "title": "The Beat Cop's Guide to Chicago Eats", "text": "The Beat Cop's Guide to Chicago Eats\n\nThe Beat Cop's Guide to Chicago Eats! is a 2010 paperback food guide by Sgt. David Joseph Haynes and Christopher \"Bull\" Garlington, published by Lake Claremont Press. The book examines popular Chicago cafes and restaurants frequented by Chicago Police officers.\n\n"}
{"id": "22064856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22064856", "title": "The English Schoole-Master", "text": "The English Schoole-Master\n\nThe English Schoole-Maister: Teaching all his schollers, the order of distinct reading, and true writing our English tongue is a dictionary compiled by Edmund Coote, former Headmaster of King Edward VI School, Bury St Edmunds, and first published in London in 1596. At least 40 editions were published between its first publication and the end of the 17th century.\n\nIt went through several editions, with later editions having slightly different subtitles.\n\nThe publishing of the book most likely lead to him losing his job as headmaster.\n"}
{"id": "9411879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9411879", "title": "Thomas Edvard Krogh", "text": "Thomas Edvard Krogh\n\nThomas Edvard \"Tom\" Krogh, FRSC (1936 – April 29, 2008) was a geochronologist and a former curator for the Royal Ontario Museum. He revolutionized the technique of radiometric uranium-lead dating with the development of new laboratory procedures and analytical methodologies. His discoveries have yielded an unprecedented level of precision in the dating of Precambrian rocks. Krogh's techniques have become the international de facto standard. The application of these techniques has provided a detailed understanding of the evolution of the Earth's Precambrian shield areas.\n\nKrogh was born in Peterborough, Ontario. Between 1955 and 1959, he studied geological engineering at Queen's University and held several jobs. For the first two summers he worked as a Geological Assistant at Noranda Mines and Triana Explorations, respectively. Between 1957 and 1959, he worked as a Teaching Assistant at the university. In 1958, he supported the Geological Survey of Canada as a Geological Assistant. In 1959, he was a Senior Assistant for the Ontario Department of Mines. Krogh obtained a MSc in geology from the university in 1960. He left Canada to study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he continued to work whenever he was not studying. His first job was as a Teaching Assistant in Mineralogy, then as a Geologist at Cominco, then as a Research Assistant in Geochronology. In 1964, he obtained his PhD in geochronology.\n\nBetween 1964 and 1975, Krogh worked at the Carnegie Institution in Washington, D.C. He was a post-doctoral fellow in isotopic geochemistry until 1964 when he became a Scientific Staff Member. From 1964 to 1970, he specialized in Rubidium–Strontium dating of minerals and rocks. In 1970, he switched to specializing in the Uranium-Lead dating of zircons and other minerals.\n\nIn 1975, Krogh returned to Canada to work as the Associate Curator/Director of the Royal Ontario Museum's Geochronology Laboratory. In 1976, he became a Professor in the Geology Department of the University of Toronto. In 1978, he shifted to be Graduate Faculty Member with the university.\n\nIn 1979, he returned to the Royal Ontario Museum to be their Full Curator.\n\nHe worked on the Lithoprobe project between 1991 and 1996.\n\nKrogh's main focus of research has been geochronology, an effort which has long involved the integration of field work (particularly in high-grade gneisses of the Grenville Province) with clean-laboratory isotope dilution techniques. With uranium-lead (U-Pb) dating he developed a simple, yet innovative air-abrasion technique for removing exterior portions of minerals that may have suffered Pb-loss, which, combined with improved magnetic separation methods, greatly improved the accuracy and precision of zircon geochronology. In addition, Krogh's laboratory methods for the dissolution of minerals and the subsequent chemical separation of trace quantities of uranium and lead resulted in a significant reduction of environmental Pb contamination (blank) to ultra-low levels, and permitted increasingly small quantities of mineral grains and sub-grain domains to be analyzed. In the mid-1980s, he was instrumental in producing a synthetic 205Pb isotopic tracer (spike) that was distributed for use in U-Pb geochronology laboratories worldwide. The application of Krogh's novel and innovative techniques has revolutionized U-Pb geochronology and permitted the ages of rocks to be determined with unprecedented accuracy and precision. Most of what is known of the Earth's 4.5 billion-year history has been placed in precise geological sequence using these dating methods.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5607487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5607487", "title": "Tu'er Shen", "text": "Tu'er Shen\n\nTu'er Shen (, The Leveret Spirit) or Tu Shen (, The Rabbit God), is a Chinese deity who manages the love and sex between homosexual people. His name literally means \"rabbit deity\".\n\nIn a folk tale from 17th century Fujian, a soldier is in love with a provincial official, and spies on him to see him naked. The official has the soldier tortured and killed, but he returns from the dead in the form of a leveret (a rabbit in its first year) in the dream of a village elder. The leveret demands that local men build a temple to him where they can burn incense in the interest of \"affairs of men\". The story ends:\nAccording to \"What the Master Would Not Discuss\" (), a book written by Yuan Mei during the Qing dynasty, Tu'er Shen was a man called Hu Tianbao (胡天保). Hu was originally a man who fell in love with a very handsome imperial inspector of Fujian Province. One day he was caught peeping on the inspector through a bathroom wall, at which point he confessed his reluctant affections for the other man. The imperial inspector had Hu Tianbao sentenced to death by beating. One month after Hu Tianbao's death, he is said to have appeared to a man from his hometown in a dream, claiming that since his crime was one of love, the underworld officials decided to right the injustice by appointing him the god and safeguarder of homosexual affections.\n\nAfter his dream the man erected a shrine to Hu Tianbao, which became very popular in Fujian, so much so that in late Qing times, the cult of Hu Tianbao was targeted for extermination by the Qing government.\n\nThe deity can be seen as an alternative to Yue Lao, the matchmaker god, for heterosexual relations.\n\nA slang term for homosexuals in late imperial China was \"rabbits\" which is why Hu Tianbao is referred to as the rabbit deity, though in fact he has nothing to do with rabbits and should not be confused with Tu'er Ye, the rabbit on the moon.\n\nImages of Hu Tianbao show him in an embrace with another man. The sense that the villagers must keep the reason for the temple secret in the story may relate to pressure from the central Chinese authorities to abandon the practice. Qing official Zhu Gui (1731-1807), a grain tax circuit intendant of Fujian in 1765, strove to standardize the morality of the people with a \"Prohibition of Licentious Cults\". One cult which he found particularly troublesome was the cult of Hu Tianbao. As he reports,\nAlthough Tu'er Shen is popularly revered by some temples, some Taoist schools may have considered homosexuality as sexual misconduct through history, probably deeming it is outside marriage. Though many Taoism scriptures do not mention anything against same-gender relations, mostly maintaining neutrality.\n\nThe story may be an attempt to mythologize a system of male marriages in Fujian attested to by the scholar-bureaucrat Shen Defu and the writer Li Yu. The older man in the union would play the masculine role as a \"qixiong\" or \"adoptive older brother\", paying a \"bride price\" to the family of the younger man- it was said virgins fetched higher prices- who became the \"qidi\", or \"adoptive younger brother\". Li Yu described the ceremony, \"They do not skip the three cups of tea or the six wedding rituals- it is just like a proper marriage with a formal wedding.\" The \"qidi\" then moved into the household of the \"qixiong\", where he would be completely dependent on him, be treated as a son-in-law by the \"qixiong\"s parents, and possibly even help raise children adopted by the \"qixiong\". These marriages could last as long as 20 years before both men were expected to marry women in order to procreate.\n\nKeith Stevens reports seeing images like these in Hokkien-speaking communities in Taiwan island, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore. Stevens refers to these images as 'brothers' or 'princes' and calls them Taibao (太保), which is probably a perversion of Tianbao. Stevens was usually told that the two figures in an embrace were brothers, and only in one temple in Fujian was he told that they were homosexuals. A photo of an image from a temple in Kaohsiung is provided by Stevens on p. 434 of his article.\n\nThe history of Hu Tianbao has been largely forgotten even by the temple keepers. However, there is a temple in Yonghe District, Taiwan that venerates Hu Tianbao in his traditional guise. The temple is known as the Hall of Martial Brilliance (威明堂).\n\nIn 2006,Lu Wei-ming founded a temple for Tu'er Shen in Yonghe District in the New Taipei City in Taiwan. About 9000 gay pilgrims visits the temple each year for praying to get a suitable partner The Wei-ming temple also performs a love ceremony for gay couples. It is the world's only religious shrine for Homosexuals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46723188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46723188", "title": "Two Women Beside a Linen Chest, with a Child", "text": "Two Women Beside a Linen Chest, with a Child\n\nTwo Women Beside a Linen Chest, with a Child (c. 1663) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch painter Pieter de Hooch, it is an example of Dutch Golden Age painting and is part of the collection of the Amsterdam Museum, on loan to the Rijksmuseum.\n\nThis painting by Hooch was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1908, who wrote; \"25. THE GOOD HOUSEWIFE. Sm. Suppl. 38. ; de G. 13. A woman is putting away linen in a great oak press, inlaid with ebony, which stands to the right in a room. A girl, who, to judge from her fine clothes, is the woman's daughter, is helping her and taking the linen from a large basket. At the back are a high window and an open door, at which stands a child playing with a stick and a ball. A winding staircase and a cushioned chair are seen to the left of the room. \n\n\"Although this picture does not possess the brilliant and luminous effect which is so much coveted in this master's works, yet it has the charm of such truth and reality in appearance that it may justly be reckoned among his best works ; the drawing and finishing are singularly \nperfect\" (Sm.). Signed \"P. de Hoogh, 1663\" ; canvas, 30 inches by 28 inches. \n\nExhibited at Amsterdam in 1872, No. 110, and 1900, No. 46. \nSee Harvard, Merveilles d'Art, pp. 57, 123. Sales:\n\nNow in the collection of Dr. J. P. Six, Amsterdam, No. 46.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26831980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26831980", "title": "United States v. Moore", "text": "United States v. Moore\n\nUnited States v. Moore, 486 F.2d 1139 (D.C. Cir. 1973), was a case decided by the D.C. Circuit that refused to recognize a common law affirmative defense of addiction in a criminal prosecution for the possession of heroin.\n\nThe defendant Moore was charged with the possession of heroin, and in his defense sought to introduce psychiatric testimony that because of his heroin addiction he lacked substantial capacity to conform his behavior to the standards of the criminal law. The court refused to recognize Moore's proposed common law defense of addiction because of difficulties in administration and inconsistency with the Model Penal Code.\n\nA dissenting opinion by Judge J. Skelly Wright advocated for the recognition of the common law defense.\n"}
{"id": "48754334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48754334", "title": "Versailles (TV series)", "text": "Versailles (TV series)\n\nVersailles is a Franco-Canadian historical fiction television series, set during the construction of the Palace of Versailles during the reign of Louis XIV, that premiered on 16 November 2015 on Canal+ in France and on Super Channel in Canada, in May 2016 on BBC Two in Britain, and on 1 October 2016 on Ovation in the US. A second season was ordered prior to the season one premiere. Filming for the second season began in February 2016; its story took place four years after that of the first season. The second season premiered on 27 March 2017 in France and aired from 21 April 2017 in Britain. On 14 September 2016, producer Claude Chelli confirmed that \"Versailles\" had been renewed for a third season, which began filming in April 2017. On 17 April 2018, \"Variety\" reported that the third season of \"Versailles\" would be its last.\n\nIn the wake of the Fronde in 1667, the French nobility have begun to rebel against the monarchy. Young King Louis XIV (George Blagden) decides to move the court from Paris to his father's former hunting lodge in Versailles as a means to force their submission. As Louis renovates and expands his Palace of Versailles, the nobles—displaced from their usual surroundings but compelled to surround the king—become embroiled in increasingly dangerous intrigues.\n\n\n\nThe third season was released on demand in its entirety on 23 April 2018.\n\nA second season was ordered prior to the season one premiere. Filming for the second season began in February 2016; its story took place four years after that of the first season.\n\nOn 14 September 2016, producer Claude Chelli confirmed that \"Versailles\" had been renewed for a third season, which would begin filming in April 2017. On 11 May 2017, the official Instagram account of Château de Vaux-le-Vicomte published pictures of the ongoing shoot of the third season. On 17 April 2018, \"Variety\" reported that the third season of \"Versailles\" would be its last.\n\n\"Versailles\" premiered on 16 November 2015 on Canal+ in France and on Super Channel in Canada, in May 2016 on BBC Two in Britain, and on 1 October 2016 on Ovation in the U.S. The Movie Network gave early access to all of season 2 in October 2016, prior to its 2017 broadcast dates. The series stayed on the English-language Super Channel until May 2016 but was gone by December 2016, after TMN had made season 2 available early. The French version of Super Channel is keeping the show available until 8 November 2020. City aired the first six episodes of season 1 from January 4 to February 25.\n\nThe second season premiered on 27 March 2017 in France, and aired from 21 April 2017 in Britain. At some point after the first season concluded, Super Channel lost the Canadian broadcast rights to the series. Subsequently, The Movie Network picked up those rights and began airing reruns of the first season.\n\nIn addition to the Palace of Versailles, many other palaces and chateaux were filmed for the depiction of the unfinished Versailles, including:\n\nThe first season of \"Versailles\" received mixed to positive reviews from critics. It holds a Metacritic rating of 55 out of 100, based on six reviews, and an 80% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, with an average score of 6.56 out of 10, based on 10 reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "90838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90838", "title": "Viracocha", "text": "Viracocha\n\nViracocha is the great creator deity in the pre-Inca and Inca mythology in the Andes region of South America. Full name and some spelling alternatives are Wiracocha, Apu Qun Tiqsi Wiraqutra, and Con-Tici (also spelled Kon-Tiki, the source of the name of Thor Heyerdahl's raft). Viracocha was one of the most important deities in the Inca pantheon and seen as the creator of all things, or the substance from which all things are created, and intimately associated with the sea.\nViracocha created the universe, sun, moon, and stars, time (by commanding the sun to move over the sky) and civilization itself. Viracocha was worshipped as god of the sun and of storms. He was represented as wearing the sun for a crown, with thunderbolts in his hands, and tears descending from his eyes as rain.\n\nAccording to a myth recorded by Juan de Betanzos, Viracocha rose from Lake Titicaca (or sometimes the cave of Paqariq Tampu) during the time of darkness to bring forth light. He made the sun, moon, and the stars. He made mankind by breathing into stones, but his first creation were brainless giants that displeased him. So he destroyed it with a flood and made a new, better one from smaller stones. Viracocha eventually disappeared across the Pacific Ocean (by walking on the water), and never returned. He wandered the earth disguised as a beggar, teaching his new creations the basics of civilization, as well as working numerous miracles. He wept when he saw the plight of the creatures he had created. It was thought that Viracocha would re-appear in times of trouble. Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa wrote that Viracocha was described as \"a man of medium height, white and dressed in a white robe like an alb secured round the waist, and that he carried a staff and a book in his hands.\"\n\nIn one legend he had one son, Inti, and two daughters, Mama Killa and Pachamama. In this legend, he destroyed the people around Lake Titicaca with a Great Flood called Unu Pachakuti lasting 60 days and 60 nights, saving two to bring civilization to the rest of the world, these two beings are Manco Cápac, the son of Inti (sometimes taken as the son of Viracocha), which name means \"splendid foundation\", and Mama Uqllu, which means \"mother fertility\". These two founded the Inca civilization carrying a golden staff, called 'tapac-yauri'. In another legend, he fathered the first eight civilized human beings. In some stories, he has a wife called Mama Qucha.\n\nIn another legend, Viracocha had two sons, Imahmana Viracocha and Tocapo Viracocha. After the Great Flood and the Creation, Viracocha sent his sons to visit the tribes to the northeast and northwest to determine if they still obeyed his commandments. Viracocha himself traveled North. During their journey, Imaymana and Tocapo gave names to all the trees, flowers, fruits, and herbs. They also taught the tribes which of these were edible, which had medicinal properties, and which were poisonous. Eventually, Viracocha, Tocapo and Imahmana arrived at Cusco (in modern-day Peru) and the Pacific seacoast where they walked across the water until they disappeared. The word \"Viracocha\" literally means \"Sea Foam.\"\n\n\"Tiqsi Huiracocha\" may have several meanings. In the Quechuan languages, \"tiqsi\" means foundation or base, \"wira\" means fat, and \"qucha\" means lake, sea, or reservoir.\nViracocha's many epithets include \"great\", \"all knowing\", \"powerful\", etc.\nSome people state that \"Wiraqucha\" could mean \"Fat (or foam) of the sea\".\n\nHowever, linguistic, historical and archaeological evidence suggest that the name could be a borrowing of Aymara \"Wila Quta\" (\"wila\" \"blood\"; \"quta\" \"lake\"), due to the sacrifices of camelids that were celebrated at Lake Titiqaqa by pre-Incan Andean cultures that spoke Aymara \n\nSpanish chroniclers from the 16th century claimed that when the conquistadors led by Francisco Pizarro first encountered the Incas they were greeted as gods, \"Viracochas\", because their lighter skin resembled their god Viracocha. This story was first reported by Pedro Cieza de León (1553) and later by Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa. Similar accounts by Spanish chroniclers (e.g. Juan de Betanzos) describe Viracocha as a \"white god\", often with a beard. The whiteness of Viracocha is however not mentioned in the native authentic legends of the Incas and most modern scholars therefore had considered the \"white god\" story to be a post-conquest Spanish invention.\nSimilarly to the Incan god Viracocha, the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl and several other deities from Central and South American pantheons, like the Muisca god Bochica are described in legends as being bearded. The beard, once believed to be a mark of a prehistoric European influence and quickly fueled and embellished by spirits of the colonial era, had its single significance in the continentally insular culture of Mesoamerica. The \"Anales de Cuauhtitlan\" is a very important early source which is particularly valuable for having been originally written in Nahuatl. The \"Anales de Cuauhtitlan\" describes the attire of Quetzalcoatl at Tula:\nIn this quote the beard is represented as a dressing of feathers, fitting comfortably with academic impressions of Mesoamerican art. The story, however, does not mention whether Viracocha had facial hair or not with the point of outfitting him with a mask and symbolic feathered beard being to cover his unsightly appearance because as Viracocha said \"If ever my subjects were to see me, they would run away!\" While descriptions of Viracocha's physical appearance are open to interpretation, it should be noted that men with beards were frequently depicted by the Peruvian Moche culture in its famous pottery, long before the arrival of the Spanish. Modern advocates of theories such as a pre-Columbian European migration to Peru cite these bearded ceramics and Viracocha's beard as being evidence for an early presence of non-Amerindians in Peru. Although most Indians do not have heavy beards, there are groups reported to have included bearded individuals, such as the Aché people of Paraguay, who also have light skin but who are not known to have any admixture with Europeans and Africans. When the Southern Paiute were first contacted by Europeans in 1776, the report by fathers Silvestre Vélez de Escalante and Francisco Atanasio Domínguez noted that \"Some of the men had thick beards and were thought to look more in appearance like Spanish men than native Americans\".\n\nA representation of the messenger of Viracocha named Wiracochan or Tunupa is shown in the small village of Ollantaytambo, southern Peru. Ollantaytambo located in the Cusco Region makes up a chain of small villages along the Urubamba Valley. Known as the Sacred Valley, it was an important stronghold of the Inca Empire. Facing the ancient Inca ruins of Ollantaytambo in the rock face of \"Cerro Pinkuylluna\" is the 140 metre high figure of Wiracochan. The angry-looking formation of his face is made up of indentations that form the eyes and mouth, whilst a protruding carved rock denotes the nose. Inca ruins built on top of the face are also considered to represent a crown on his head. Artists' impressions of the rock face also include a heavy beard and a large sack upon his shoulders.\n\nThe face of Viracocha at Ollantaytambo can be captured as noted by Fernando and Edgar Elorrieta Salazar. Wiracochan, the pilgrim preacher of knowledge, the master knower of time, is described as a person with superhuman power, a tall man, with short hair, dressed like a priest or an astronomer with tunic and a bonnet with four pointed corners.\n\nSpanish scholars and chroniclers provide many insights regarding the identity of Viracocha.\n\n\nOther authors such as Garcilaso de la Vega, Betanzos, and Pedro de Quiroga hold that Viracocha wasn't the original name of \"God\" for the Incas. According to Garcilaso, the name of God in the language of the Incas was \"Pachamama\", not Viracocha. Nevertheless, Spanish interpreters generally attributed the identity of supreme creator to Viracocha during the initial years of colonization.\n\nAccording to Antoinette Molinié Fioravanti, Spanish clergymen began to equate the \"God of creation\" with Viracocha in an attempt to combat the polytheistic worship of the Incas, which in their view was idolatrous. The existence of a \"supreme God\" in the Incan view was used by the clergy to demonstrate that the revelation of a single, universal God was \"natural\" for the human condition.\n\nChristian scholars such as Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Aquinas held that philosophers of all nations had learned of the existence of a supreme God. Nevertheless, medieval European philosophy believed that without the aid of revelation, no one could fully understand such great truths such as the nature of “The Trinity”.\n\nThe decision to use the term \"God\" in place of \"Viracocha\" is seen as the first step in the evangelization of the Incas. The reasoning behind this strategy includes the fact that it was likely difficult to explain the Christian idea of \"God\" to the Incas, who failed to understand the concept. In addition, replacing reference to Viracocha with \"God\" facilitated the substitution of the local concept of divinity with Christian theology.\n\n"}
{"id": "45283371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45283371", "title": "Zombie Movies: The Ultimate Guide", "text": "Zombie Movies: The Ultimate Guide\n\nZombie Movies: The Ultimate Guide is a 2008 non-fiction book by Glenn Kay about zombies in popular culture, primarily zombie films. It was updated in 2012 to include television episodes and more films.\n\nThe initial printing was in 2008. A second edition was published on October 1, 2012.\n\nKay traces the history of zombie films from \"White Zombie\" in 1932 to modern days. The updated version has reviews of approximately 400 films and adds reviews of television shows, such as \"The Walking Dead\". Films are rated on a five-point scale, which includes a \"so bad it's good\" score. Also included are interviews and film stills.\n\nJeremy Martin of \"San Antonio Current\" wrote that Kay \"most certainly makes some omissions\" and has idiosyncratic inclusion criteria, but the writing is humorous. Martin suggests that Kay's list of top films would make a \"great start for beginners\". Justin Dimos of PopMatters rated it 7/10 stars and called it \"the zombie movie bible for the film student and horror moviegoer\". Reviewing the updated edition, Rod Lott of the \"Oklahoma Gazette\" wrote, \"With hundreds of capsule reviews and nearly as many photos and posters, it’s something no self-respecting psychotronic film fan should be without ... especially now that it's grown even larger.\" Doug Sarti of \"The Georgia Straight\" wrote, \"With such a wealth of information, Kay's book is bound to keep any zombiephile entertained for days, reliving the thrill of favourite classics.\" Ryan Daley of \"Bloody Disgusting\" wrote, \"Kay is a knowledgeable writer with a dry sense of humor, and while he offers some genuinely keen observations regarding the evolution of the subgenre, some readers will vehemently disagree with his individual ratings.\"\n"}
{"id": "9936323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9936323", "title": "Šauška", "text": "Šauška\n\nŠauška or Shaushka (Hittite: \"Šauša\", & later \"Šawuška\") was a Hurrian goddess who was also adopted into the Hittite pantheon. She is known in detail because she became the patron goddess of the Hittite king Hattusili III (1420–1400 BC) following his marriage to Puduhepa, the daughter of the goddess' high priest. Her cultic center was Lawazantiya in Kizzuwatna.\n\nShaushka is a goddess of fertility, war and healing. She is depicted in human form with wings, standing with a lion and accompanied by two attendants. She was considered equivalent to the Mesopotamian goddess Ishtar and is sometimes identified using Ishtar's name in Hittite cuneiform.\n\nShaushka is interesting in that she uses her authority in matters of sexuality to mess around a little where she saw fit. Texts describe Shaushka as similar to Ishtar, as an ambiguous goddess who supervised conjugal love and harmonious relationships but, unpredictably, could turn love into a dangerous endeavor. Reliefs at Yazilikaya show the goddess twice: in one relief she is depicted with male gods and in another with the goddesses. According to Hittite texts about Shaushka of Lawazantiya: she is clothed like a man and like a woman, and has male attributes such as an axe and weapons. Sometimes this has been taken as a sign of her bisexual or androgynous character.\n\nIn the 1350-1335 BC Amarna letters correspondence, (written mostly to the Ancient Egyptian pharaoh), one letter EA 23, (EA for 'el Amarna'), written to the pharaoh, has as its topic, the \"Loaning of a Statue\" to Egypt. It is presumed that it's due to the health of the Egyptian king, but there are other theories or explanations.\n\nThe title of the letter is: \"A goddess travels to Egypt\".\n\nIt is a short, 32-line letter, from Tushratta, (letter no. 7 of 13), and the 2nd half of the letter states:\n\nBlack Egyptian script is also written on the reverse side of this letter, (in the open space remaining).\n\n\n\n"}
