{"id": "8387715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8387715", "title": "826 National", "text": "826 National\n\n826 National is a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping students, ages 6–18, improve their expository and creative writing skills at eight locations across the United States. The chapters include 826 Valencia in San Francisco, 826NYC in Brooklyn, 826LA in Los Angeles, 826CHI in Chicago, 826michigan (serving Ann Arbor, Detroit, and Ypsilanti), 826 Boston in Boston, 826DC in Washington, DC, and most recently, 826 New Orleans. Together, the eight chapters serve approximately 32,000 students each year.\n\nThe flagship chapter of 826, 826 Valencia, opened in 2002, at 826 Valencia St. in the Mission District of San Francisco. The original address inspired the name 826 National. It was co-founded by educator Nínive Clements Calegari and author Dave Eggers, who also founded the independent publishing house McSweeney's.\n\nIn April 2010, Dave Eggers founded ScholarMatch, a nonprofit organization that aims to make higher education possible for underserved youth. ScholarMatch coordinates students with various resources, donors, scholarships, and universities to aid in the financial undertaking of pursuing a college education.\n\nFollowing the success and impact of 826 Valencia in its first two years, 826NYC opened its doors in 2004. In 2005, 826michigan, 826LA, and 826CHI were established, respectively. In 2007, 826 Boston joined the growing network, followed most recently by 826DC, which opened in 2010.\n\nIn 2008, a national office was established to support the chapters and act as a central hub of the 826 network. 826 National is an independent nonprofit organization that provides strategic leadership, administration, and other resources to ensure the success of its writing and tutoring centers.\n\nIn addition, there are fifty 826-inspired organizations across the globe. 826 Digital support educators through 826 Digital, a new online pay-what- you-wish platform designed to help teach and ignite a love of writing.826 National is the hub of the 826 Network: facilitating collaboration and alignment among our chapters, and bringing the 826 Network model and approach to new communities.\n\nEach 826 National store has an unusually-themed retail outlet. These include:\nThe Greater Seattle Bureau of Fearless Ideas, formerly called 826 Seattle, operates the Greenwood Space Travel Supply Company.\n\n826 National programs are supported by over 6,000 active volunteers of various professions, ages, cultures, and socioeconomic backgrounds. Volunteers are trained by staff members for various areas of 826 programs: after-school tutoring, the Young Authors Book Project, field trips, in-school programs, and writing workshops. Volunteers can also help in administrative jobs, such as website maintenance and graphic design.\n"}
{"id": "21778947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21778947", "title": "American Book Company (1996)", "text": "American Book Company (1996)\n\nAmerican Book Company is a textbook and software publishing company. Its main focus is on standardized test preparation materials. It offers books covering language arts, mathematics, science, and social studies tests. The company also produces transparencies, basic review books, and ACT and SAT preparation books.\n\nIt currently publishes nearly 200 materials, most of them specifically developed for Alabama, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas.\n\nAmerican Book Company was founded in 1996 by Dr. Frank Pintozzi, a professor of reading and English as a Second Language at Kennesaw State University, and Colleen Pintozzi, a math teacher and supervisor of General Educational Development programs.\n\nThey began writing textbooks for nearby South Carolina. After finding success, they created more books for states across the country.\n\nAmerican Book Company books have frequent references to standards provided by state departments of education. Each book is based around multiple practice tests modeled after the relevant state test.\n\nMany of the company's books include links to online modules curated by the National Science Teachers Association's sciLINKS program.\n\nIn 2006, publishing consultant Lois Eskin Associates studied the effects of using American Book Company books to prepare for standardized tests. The goal of the study was to find if students were more likely to pass standardized tests after studying with American Book Company books. The study included schools in Alabama, California, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Louisiana, South Carolina, and Texas.\n\nResults were positive, with every school showing success attributed to American Book Company. In particular, Tranquillity High School increased its pass rate on the CAHSEE by 135%.\n\nAs of 2009, the following fourteen American Book Company books have been officially adopted by the Alabama and Georgia departments of education:\n\n\nAmerican Book Company books are also listed as a resource by the New Jersey Department of Education and schools in many states, including Minnesota, California, and Alabama.\n\nAmerican Book Company offers online practice testing and classroom management software.\n\nIt has also recently begun making brief web video lessons. One of these videos, Protein Synthesis Animation, was selected a TeacherTube Top Favorite.\n\nIts community involvement includes working with Adopt-a-Book, Must Ministries, and Habitat for Humanity, among other organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858036", "title": "American Society of Landscape Architects", "text": "American Society of Landscape Architects\n\nThe American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA) is the national professional association representing landscape architects, with more than 15,000 members in 49 chapters, representing all 50 states, U.S. territories, and 42 countries around the world, plus 72 student chapters.\n\nThe group was founded on January 4, 1899, to \"establish landscape architecture as a recognized profession in North America\", \"develop educational studies in landscape architecture\", and \"provide a voice of authority in the 'New Profession'\".\n\nA green roof, which covers on the top of the ASLA headquarters, is to be honoured by Green Roofs for Healthy Cities (GRHC) in the 'Institutional Intensive' category, which honours innovative green roof design in North America, including the countries of the United States, Canada, and Mexico.\n\nOn an annual basis, The American Society of Landscape Architecture gives various awards to professionals and students for design as well as constructed projects in many different categories. These categories range in size, scale and type from small residential areas to large multi acre parks and waterfronts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46244220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46244220", "title": "Andy Barrett", "text": "Andy Barrett\n\nAndy Barrett is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera \"Home and Away\", played by Tai Hara. The character made his first screen appearance on 28 August 2013. Hara relocated to Sydney to take on the role. Kyle Pryor who plays fellow character Nate Cooper originally auditioned for the role. Andy and his half-brother Josh (Jackson Gallagher) were introduced to viewers through a series of online webisodes titled \"Home and Away Extras\", prior to appearing in the main series. Andy is characterised as a troubled man because of his upbringing and disappearance of his father. Hara has described his character as \"extremely unpredictable\" and very protective of his brother. Andy has spent time in prison and causes trouble from his first episode. Andy's initial storyline was a feud with the Braxton family which had been ongoing before he was born. Through this story, writers involved Andy in crimes ranging from fights and car chases to explosions and shootings. Hara announced he would be departing from the show on 22 February 2016, after over three years in the role and Andy made his final appearance on 5 July 2016.\n\nProducers created a romantic partnership between Andy and Hannah Wilson (Cassie Howarth). Their on/off relationship has been focused on heavily during his tenure. Andy is also involved in drug dealing which saw him temporarily separated from Hannah. His involvement leads to the death of Casey Braxton (Lincoln Younes), which prompts Andy to want to change his life. He sets on course to become a gym instructor, become literate and maintain a relationship with Hannah. The latter rarely goes well as they face problems such as Hannah's paralysis, her infidelity and Andy's temper. The character became popular with viewers as the Barrett brothers gained a fan-base. A reporter from \"The Daily Examiner\" said that Andy continually causes friction on the show. A writer from \"TV Soap\" noted that trouble follows Andy everywhere. They concluded that writers transformed the character from \"rough customer\" to \"respectable citizen\".\n\nThe character and Hara's casting was reported by Debbie Schipp from \"The Daily Telegraph\" on 3 August 2013. Hara relocated from Gold Coast to Sydney to take on the role. Of being cast in \"Home and Away\", Hara commented \"I thought how lucky I was. It's just a real privilege to be on a show that is so loved.\" Andy was introduced to the show along with his brother Josh (Jackson Gallagher). The characters first appeared in online webisodes, which explored their backgrounds. The Barretts were initially rivals of the Braxton brothers and Hara said \"There is a lot of history behind both the families. I carry the secrets of what our whole relationship is with them.\" Andy's debut on the main show was broadcast on 28 August 2013. British actor Kyle Pryor also auditioned for the role with an Australian accent. But producers thought he was better suited to the role of Nate Cooper.\n\nAndy is characterised as an over-protective brother to Josh. He has an uncontrollable temper which leads gets him into trouble. His anger issues date back to the disappearance of his father which changed him and eventually led to him being reprimanded by the law. He is a \"feisty\" resident of the infamous Mangrove River who \"thinks with his fists before thinking of consequences\". He is a \"loose cannon\" and harbours a \"volatile mood\" which has gained him a significant criminal history. They added that his attitude would only carry on adding to his criminality. Hara told a Yahoo!7 reporter that \"he's an extremely unpredictable and protective character and regardless of his circumstances, family always comes first.\" Andy was forced to take care of Josh in the absence of their father. Hara added that \"although sometimes he lacks morals and normal social behaviour, everything he does for his brother, despite how reckless, it comes from a place of love.\"\n\nAndy and Josh were introduced to viewers in a series of four special online episodes titled \"Home and Away Extras\", which were made available online from 7 August. The episodes gave fans a chance to see the characters prior to their on-screen arrival. They were written by Supervising Script Producer, Louise Bowes and directed by Danny Raco.\n\nA promotional article stated that the footage would reveal a shared history and angst with the established characters of Brax (Steve Peacocke), Heath (Dan Ewing) and Casey Braxton (Lincoln Younes). To coincide with the content the show produced a series of additional content such as spoilers and cast interviews as extra promotion. Series Producer Lucy Addario created the \"webisodes\" because she wanted alternative ways for viewers to interact with the \"Home and Away\" brand. She added \"we're going to reveal dramatic details of the characters' back-stories before they are introduced as a major storyline.\" \"Home and Away Extras\" completed its run on 26 August and Andy was introduced into the main show two days later.\n\nTo introduce Andy and Josh into the main series \"Home and Away\" developed a feud storyline between the Barrett and the Braxton brothers. The established Braxton family were popular with viewers and garnered a large fan base. Hara was not worried about their popularity ruining the chances of his character being successful and believed the Barretts would gain their own fans. He warned that Andy does not get intimidated by no one and would comfortably rival the Braxton brothers. Ewing told a \"TV Week\" reporter that the Braxtons would still be the \"top dog\" but the Barretts would give them \"a run for their money\". He believed his family had the advantage because they learned to carefully think about their actions whereas Andy is an \"act first, think later\" type of character.\n\nThe storyline began when Josh meets Maddy Osborne (Kassandra Clementi) at a party and she refuses to leave. Her friend Casey does not approve of Maddy trying to lose her virginity and starts an argument with Josh. Younes explained that Andy gets involved and they fight, but he manages to defuse the trouble. He added \"Casey has no idea who these guys are. He's never met them, but they say that they have.\" When Casey and Maddy drive away Andy decides to start a car chase and runs Casey's car off the road causing an accident and explosion. He is left with life changing injuries. The crash and subsequent explosion were big stunt scenes for the show. The car chase scenes Andy featured in were filmed at night on location down a narrow road, the cast described the shoot as a \"scary\" scenario. When Casey's brother Brax learns that Andy and Josh caused the accident he attacks Josh. Bianca Scott (Lisa Gormley) intervenes but Brax hits Andy instead. Hara stated that \"hot head\" Andy is not afraid of a fight or Brax because of his upbringing. Andy and Brax have known each other for a long time and there was \"bad blood\" between them. He added that \"revenge is something they've all grown up with. You strike someone and they strike back. I think Andy will be prepared whatever happens.\" Gallagher added that there is a \"lot of unspoken history\" between Andy and Brax.\n\nThe writers then decided to cause a divide between the Barrett brothers and added a new dynamic between Brax and Josh. Realising that Josh is homeless, Brax asks Josh to stay at his home. Gallagher explained that it was Andy's hatred that influenced Josh's feelings towards the Braxtons. His attitude does not change but he begins to see another side to Brax. The actor added, \"deep down he doesn't hold the same anger and resentment Andy does.\" But the effect the Barrett's arrival has on Brax becomes apparent and he visits Debbie Barrett (Olivia Pigeot) to confess that he killed Andy's step-father Johnny Barrett (Stephen Anderton). Andy attacks Brax in retaliation. When Brax appears in court Andy considers shooting Brax. But Debbie steals the gun and tries to shoot Brax, but Josh is hit by the bullet but survives. The cast were not allowed to reveal who fired the shot before the episode aired. After this Andy becomes jealous that Josh is spending all his time with Maddy and spikes her drink. A reporter from \"TV Week\" wrote that following Maddy behaving erratically Josh punches his brother for his crime.\n\nIn a later development it is revealed that Johnny had slept with Cheryl Braxton (Suzi Dougherty) and had fathered Casey. Andy was angry with this and Hara told Shayn from The Edge that \"he is never going to be considered a Barrett in Andy's eyes\" and \"Brax is not happy to learn his mother slept with their dad\". He also explained that the Barrett and Braxton feud had been going on long before Andy was born.\n\nThe show decided to begin Andy's journey through 2014 by exploring his \"dark past\". A guest character, Sean Green (Khan Chittenden) was introduced on-screen as Andy's old prison enemy. He targets Andy's livelihood by vandalising the gym he works at. Hara told Miller that it comes at a point in Andy's life when things were \"looking up for him\". It becomes apparent that Sean wants revenge because Andy made a deal to leave jail at Sean's expense by naming him for a crime. He threatens to hurt Josh and Maddy if he does not tell the truth. Hara added that \"Andy feels responsible for putting them at risk, he doesn't want Josh involved in this.\" Andy tries to reason with Sean but he gathers a gang to punish the character. The storyline marked a turning point of the Braxton/Barrett feud as Casey gathers his family to help Andy and Kyle Braxton (Nic Westaway) rescues him by attacking Sean.\n\nThe show created a drug dealing storyline for Andy, which saw him trying to raise money to move out of the Summer Bay caravan park. He begins selling marijuana but his girlfriend Hannah Wilson (Cassie Howarth) destroys the drugs when she finds them in her home. This gets Andy into debt with the drug gang. In retaliation Josh is seriously assaulted by the gang. Hara told an \"Inside Soap\" reporter that Andy knows that the attack on Josh is a warning. He added that \"he's incredibly protective of his little brother, so of course he feels responsible for what's happened.\" Despite Josh becoming involved in his predicament he cannot afford to pay his debt. Hara explained that his character is \"dead broke\" and \"in some deep debt\".\n\nThe storyline developed chaotically as Andy's debt continued to grow. He believes he can prolong paying his suppliers off by meeting up with them and pleading for more time. Hara said that it does not go according to plan and Andy is left with severe injuries following an assault and being thrown from a moving vehicle. The story sees Andy turning to Casey for help, Hara explained Andy's out-of-character actions were because the dealers are \"unpredictable so everyone close to Andy is at risk.\" The storyline made way for a different dynamic between Andy and \"arch-nemisis\" Brax as he is forced to accept money from him to clear his debts. But Hara warned that his character would become more erratic, adding \"Andy's heading down a path of self-destruction - and someone will pay for his mistakes.\"\n\nBrynmor Pattison from the \"Irish Mirror\" observed the storyline as a \"dramatic development that pulls many other characters into a vortex of trouble.\" While Hara explained that the drug dealing \"will cause a domino effect that implicates numerous people and puts their lives at risk\".\n\nThe main dealer is revealed to be Jake Pirovic (Fletcher Humphrys), unbeknownst to him the sworn enemy of the Braxton family. He uses Andy in his plan to enact revenge on Brax for killing his brother, Hammer (Benedict Samuel) . But when Andy tries to defy him, Josh is kidnapped and Andy if forced to beg Casey for help. Gallagher explained that Stephen Downie (\"TV Week\") that Andy does not realise the severity of his involvement with Jake. He added that the storyline was \"very heavy\" viewing. Hara said that Andy no longer wants anything to do with Jake because \"he's exploited and manipulated him into a situation that seems irreversible.\" The interviewers questioned why Casey would want to help Andy after his constant trouble making. Younes explained that his character \"sees the best in Andy\" and wants him to change his life for the better. When Casey realises that Jake is involved he tries to keep Brax out of the situation. But he fails and Andy, Brax, Casey and Kyle end up in a fatal confrontation with Jake. \"Home and Away's\" producers put an embargo on which character would be killed off in the scenes. They kept viewers guessing by confirming one character at the scene would definitely die. Following a shooting, Casey dies in Brax's arms.\n\nHara told Chantay Logan of the \"Gold Coast Bulletin\" that many fans were \"devastated\" following the death of Casey. But he noted that \"a lot of them were sticking up for me too, there’s not that much hate there. It’ll be interesting to see if the audience goes along on the rest of Andy’s journey with him.\" Susan Hill from the \"Daily Star\" reported that Andy and Brax would team up to avenge Casey's death. But a high speed car chase results in a crash. Hara stated that \"Andy and Brax need to end this before more people get killed.\" With Jake dead, Andy is left to face the wrath of other characters. But Brax is forgiving of his one-time-nemesis. Hara explained that \"Brax doesn't blame Andy for what happened to Casey. He understands that Andy was manipulated by Jake.\"\n\nThe show decided to renew the partnership between Andy and Hannah. She asks Andy to meet with her, feeling confused Andy asks Denny Miller (Jessica Grace Smith) how Hannah feels. But Denny still blames Andy for Casey's death and lies to him. Andy sleeps with Neive Devlin (Jolene Anderson) in retaliation.\n\nHannah is involved in a bus crash and is told she may never walk again. One aspect of the storyline showed Andy afraid to have sex with Hannah in case he hurt her due to her disability. Howarth was unhappy when she received the scripts because she believed that there were other topics that their storyline could have explored. But writers told Howarth that it is a \"very real situation\" and one they felt \"Home and Away\" needed to portray. Hannah presumes that she has become a burden on Andy. She wants to have sex and Andy's reluctance leaves Hannah feeling dejected. Howarth told an \"Inside Soap\" writer that Andy \"freaks out\" when Hannah tries to be intimate. They do not have the same physical relationship they once shared so he finds it \"strange\". Nate Cooper (Kyle Pryor) advises Andy that there is no medical reason not resume sexual activity, but Hannah ends their relationship before he can apologise. Howarth added that \"Andy has become more like a carer to Hannah than a boyfriend, and she doesn't want that for either of them. She wants Andy to have the opportunity to be happy with someone else. She wishes for him to enjoy a normal life.\" Despite this their love for one another remains and the actress added that Andy chooses not to give up on their relationship. Andy knows that he still loves Hannah and tries to resume their relationship, asking Denny for help. Hara told Erin Miller (\"TV Week\") that \"Andy told Hannah he's not the same person he used to be. It's going to be a test for their relationship but he wants to prove that he loves her.\"\n\nThe pair get back together but Hannah soon becomes depressed because she cannot go outside. She decides to behave spontaneously and begs Andy to take her on a boat ride at sea. Howarth explains that being stuck at home has \"taken its toll on her both physically and emotionally\" and she is \"desperate\" to go outside. The writers throw the duo into yet another dangerous situation as their boat capsizes. With Hannah's paralysis she is unable to stay afloat and disappears beneath the water. Howarth added that it is dangerous because of her condition. Andy frantically searches for her to save her. Another problem the duo encounter is Andy's literacy problems when he needs help with revision for his personal trainer qualifications. He becomes angry and argumentative with Hannah despite her help. A \"TV Soap\" reporter stated that Andy \"hated feeling like a five year old in front of her.\" But when he admits the truth to Josh he decides to apologise to Hannah. Josh struggles to mentor him but carries on knowing that Andy is trying to make Hannah proud of him.\n\nHowarth told Kerry Harvey from \"TV Guide\" that Andy and Hannah \"balance each other well\", two opposites personality wise, but they get along so well. She concluded \"I think with what's happened with the accident he's really risen to the occasion and he's been so good to her. I think at least for a while they'll be able to be happy.\" Following Hannah's recovery and reuse of her legs, Andy becomes jealous of Hannah's new found freedom. When he witnesses Hannah dancing with another man he becomes violent and punches him. Hara said that the bad side of Andy had not surfaced for sometime and likened him to the Hulk. He defended his character's overreaction, \"imagine walking into a bar and seeing the one you love dancing with someone else.\" Hannah then meets her ex-boyfriend Sean Gleeson (Luke Pegler) and is unfaithful. Howarth said that her character \"loves Andy and doesn't want to hurt him, but ultimately she's not happy.\" Hannah remembers how exciting her life was with Sean and doesn't feel the same when she is with Andy. She sleeps with Sean and is nearly caught by Andy. Hannah struggles with the guilt of cheating, but still decides she wants Sean instead. But Hannah is shocked to learn that Sean is married. Hannah realises that she has made a mistake and wants to keep her infidelity a secret. But Sean's wife arrives and confronts Hannah. Howarth told a \"TV Week\" reporter that the whole situation \"blows up in her face\". Hannah tells Sean that she is going to be honest with Andy, unaware that Josh has recorded her and Andy learns the truth.\n\nOn 22 February 2016, the Seven Network Twitter account announced Hara's departure from \"Home and Away\". They implied that he was travelling overseas to Venice Beach. The actor stated, \"My time on HAA has been a once in a lifetime experience that I'll never forget and I can't wait for what's to come!\" Andy's exit storyline was not immediately revealed, but he is one of several suspects in the Charlotte King's (Erika Heynatz) murder.\n\nAlicia Vrajlal from the \"Daily Mail\" branded Andy a \"bad boy\" character and a \"fan favourite\" with viewers. An \"Inside Soap\" reporter included \"local bad boy\" Andy and Hannah's romance in their \"best bits of August [2014]\" feature. They added that \"there was no denying the heat between these two.\" They also included Andy's drug dealing as one of the best soap opera storylines airing in September 2014. A reporter from \"The Daily Examiner\" opined that Andy is a \"bad boy\" who causes much friction on the show. A writer from \"TV Soap\" opined that \"trouble seems to have followed Josh and Andy wherever they've gone since arriving in town, with the two brothers quickly developing a reputation as rough customers.\" They added that despite their bad impression created on their arrival, there has been much work to transform the characters into \"respectable citizens\". A writer from the \"Sunday Mail\" opined \"Andy is the sort of bloke who couldn't learn a lesson if you drilled it into his head. Having caused no end of hassle to an astoundingly large circle of people, what does he do? Take on another illegal job, that's what.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "11598706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11598706", "title": "Arrangers' Publishing Company", "text": "Arrangers' Publishing Company\n\nThe Arrangers' Publishing Company (APC) is an American publisher of marching band music, concert band music and drill designs for middle school, high school and college bands. \n\nThe company originated in 1985 with the goal of providing a new approach to marching band music. In 1992, APC published its first concert band literature. Low-cost drill designs presented in an easy to use format were offered shortly thereafter.\n\nThe company's focus has been on the effectiveness of the arrangement, showcasing diverse and sometimes unlikely material, with genres ranging from hard rock and heavy metal to jazz and American patriotic music. APC produces full-length studio recordings of its music.\n\nNotable APC arrangers and composers include Roland Barrett, Kenny Bierschenk, Scott Boerma, Jay Dawson, John Fannin, Gary P. Gilroy, Larry Kerchner, Bill Locklear, Victor Lopez, Chris McDonald, Joe Murphy, Brad Pearson, Timothy Rhea, Steve Reisteter, Jeff Simmons, Tom Wallace and Bill Wiedrich.\n\nThe company is incorporated in the state of Tennessee and headquartered in Nashville. Jay Dawson and Jeff Hearington are the owners and officers of the company. Dawson is president and continues to arrange and compose music for marching and concert bands.\n\n"}
{"id": "37753757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37753757", "title": "Board of Education Act 1899", "text": "Board of Education Act 1899\n\nThe Board of Education Act 1899 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom concerning education.\n\nThe act created the Board of Education to replace the previous Education and Science and Art departments. The Board acted as a central authority for education in the United Kingdom. As part of its responsibilities, it was empowered to create a registry of teachers.\n"}
{"id": "1870698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870698", "title": "Brno University of Technology", "text": "Brno University of Technology\n\nBrno University of Technology (abbreviated: \"BUT\"; in Czech: Vysoké učení technické v Brně – Czech abbreviation: \"VUT\") is a university located in Brno, Czech Republic. Being founded in 1899 and initially offering a single course in civil engineering, it grew to become a major Czech university with over 24,000 students enrolled at 8 faculties and 2 university institutes.\n\nThe Jesuits dominated university education in Moravia at the beginning of 18th century as they controlled the University of Olomouc. The focus on theology and philosophy was unwelcomed by the Moravian nobility. The nobility initiated commencement of law education at the University of Olomouc in 1679. Later in 1725 the Moravian nobility enforced establishment of the Academy of Nobility in Olomouc. Law and economy, mathematics, geometry, civil and military architecture, history and geography were lectured there. As it aimed to promote knighthood also foreign languages, dance, swordsmanship and equitation were taught there. The Academy was in Olomouc until 1847, when it was relocated to Brno, where it became bases for what was later to become the University of Technology.\n\nDue to extinction of the University in Olomouc, there was any institution that would provide an academic education in Moravia and only one technical school, besides German one, could not cover the lack of need, so the students mostly left to Prague, Vienna or Kraków. Related to this situation the voices that called for the establishment of university, but not regional one in Olomouc but in the state capital – Brno, grew stronger. The Moravian Germans rejected the second Czech university and thus led to the many quarrels (the settlement occurred after the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1919 by the establishment of Masaryk University). In September 1899 the disputes were solved by founding the Imperial Czech Technical University of Franz Joseph in Brno.\n\nIn the beginning the university was settled in Augustine Street and had to make do with 4 professors and 47 students who could study only Civil Engineering. In the following year (1900) the teaching of the field of machine engineering was started and followed by the cultural engineering (landscaping), electrical engineering and chemical engineering. After World War I it was also possible to study architecture. In 1911 the university was moved into a newly built luxurious building in Veveří Street which is still used by the Faculty of civil enegineering. In the interwar period it was connected with the German Technical University and was renamed the Brno University of Technology. The school has used the name of the University of Technology of Dr. E. Benes for a short time.\n\nAfter the German occupation of Czechoslovakia and installing the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, all Czech universities, including the Czech Technical University, were forced to close \"(see International Students' Day)\". After the end of the war in 1945, the university was restored to its pre-war state. After the war the school was reopened under the older name the University of Technology of Dr. E. Benes. The school was ceased to exist in 1951; some parts were transferred to the newly established Military Technical Academy. The only faculties that provided civilian training remained Faculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture Faculty, both under the name College of Engineering. Already in 1956 the university activity was gradually restored under the present name Brno University of Technology. Today's appearance was more or less stabilized in 1961.\n\nAfter 1989 there was a reorganization of certain faculties and the emergence of many new ones. There was restored The Faculty of Chemistry (1992) and in addition to the technical fields, BUT focused on economy (Faculty of Business founded in 1992) and arts (Faculty of Fine Arts, founded in 1993).\n\nAnother milestone is associated with the year 2000 when the BUT separates two faculties deployed in Zlín - Faculty of Technology and Faculty of Management and Economics - and thus established the Tomas Bata University.\nThe most recent significant organizational change is the splitting of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Communication and the Faculty of Information Technology which occurred in 2002. \n\nMost of the BUT buildings are now located in the area under Palacky Hill in the city district Kralovo Pole. There are the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Faculty of Business, Faculty of Chemistry and a new building of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Communication as well as two college campuses.\nFaculty of Information Technology is located in a former Carthusian monastery in Bozetechova Street and in the new complex across the street. The Faculty of Civil Engineering you can find in extensively rebuilt building in the Veveri Street. Faculty of Architecture is located in the Porici Street, Faculty of Fine Arts in the Rybarska Street. BUT also uses the buildings in the Udolni Street and the third college campus in Kounicova Street. Rector's Offices are located in a newly renovated Baroque building in Antoninska Street.\n\nIn the course of more than 110 years BUT has matured into an internationally recognized institution offering education in a broad spectrum of fields ranging from technical and scientific disciplines through economics to the arts.\n\nThe head of the university is the rector who is represented by five prorectores in various fields of activity. Financial matters of BUT are in the hands of the bursar, communication and promotion is the business of the public relations officer in cooperation with the Unit of external relations. Important documents and guidelines are discussed and approved by the Academic Senate which consisted of an employee and a student chamber. Scientific direction of BUT determines the Scientific Council, acting as BUT experts, other universities and industry.\n\nEach of faculty is governed by dean and his vice-deans. Also, the faculties have their academic senates which deal exclusively with the laws of the faculties. Similarly, the faculties have their own scientific council.\nThere are a number of student organizations in BUT, for historical reasons called the Student Unions. Each Faculty has its student chamber which represents students in the Academic Senate - students have the opportunity to participate in the management of their faculty.\n\n\n\nOne of the oldest faculties of Brno University of Technology was established in 1919.During its existence the faculty was merged with the Faculty of civil Engineering. Currently provides training in architecture and urban design and has about three hundred students.\n\nTeaching Chemistry at BUT dates back to 1911 when there was established Department of Chemistry at the Czech Technical University. The development was interrupted in 1951 by converting BUT to the Military Technical Academy. The restoration of the teaching of chemistry was reached in 1992. Faculty realizes bachelor's, master's and doctoral degree programs in chemistry and food industry.\n\nStudying at the faculty is focused on a wide range of scientific areas: control technology and robotics, biomedical engineering, power electronics and electrical engineering, electrotechnology and electronics, microelectronics, radioelectronics and teleinformatics.\n\nAlready in 1964 the department of automatic computers was established in the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, lately the institute of informatics detached which was transformed in 2002 into an independent faculty of information technology.\nFIT campus is located in a former Carthusian monastery and the former estate.\n\nThe faculty consists of four institutes:\n\nThe faculty offers two basic levels of study - a three-year bachelor and two-year master's degree program. The third level is the doctoral degree program.\n\nOne of the youngest BUT faculty focuses on the economy and business fields of study. In 1992 the faculty was separated from the original Faculty of Mechanical Engineering. \nBesides bachelor's, master's and doctoral programs in this field the faculty offers in cooperation with foreign universities postgraduate MBA studies. About 3 000 students study management, accounting, corporate finance, taxation and managerial science.\n\nFCE is the oldest faculty of Brno University of Technology and the biggest one with its number of students – 6 500. In 1899 the university started its activities with this branch and that faculty was the only one which survived a violent change - transformation BUT into the Military Technical Academy in 1951.\n\nStudents can study in four programmes in Czech language at this faculty:\n\nand one programme in English language:\n\nThe opening of the engineering department was in 1900 and herewith it is the second oldest faculty of the BUT. In the past there was taught energy branch from which subsequently became an independent faculty of electrical engineering. \n\nThe faculty offers study of:\n\nOn the contrary, one of the youngest BUT faculties is the Faculty of Fine Arts. In 1993 it was founded from the institute of fine arts which was based in the faculty of architecture a year earlier. As the number of students (3 thousands) it is the smallest faculty of current BUT.\nSome of the study programs are: \n\nThe aim of the institute is teaching forensic experts in master's degree programs - Venture engineering and Forensic engineering (expert engineering in transportation and real estate). It is possible to study The Forensic engineering program as a doctoral study. In preparation is the transformation of the institute to the separate department faculty with the temporary name the Faculty of Forensic Engineering.\n\nIn cooperation with the Faculty of Business CESA provides courses of study in Management of Physical Culture. Students can choose from more than 40 sports like basketball, swimming, athletics, golf or diving.\n\nThe school is a holder of the European Commission ECTS certificates (European Credit Transfer System) - Label and DS (Diploma Supplement) Label for the period 2009-2013, reflecting the appreciation of quality of the university education in keeping with the principles of the Bologna Declaration. ECTS Label supports studying abroad at universities around the world. DS Label Certificate was awarded for the correct free award of the Diploma Supplement to all graduates of the principles of the European Commission.\n\nBrno University of Technology offers its students:\n\nStudy programs:\n\nCooperation with foreign institutions:\n\nParticipation in EU programs for education:\n\nLifelong learning:\n\nLifelong Learning Institute:\n\nResearch activities at the Brno University of Technology are realized in cooperation with national and international projects, programs, grants and research centers. BUT intensively cooperates with other universities and institutions, with the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and private companies. The efforts of integration of teaching and scientific research are supported by application sector with which new curricula is prepared. Students can obtain a range of practical experience during their studies, thereby facilitating the selection of employment and competitiveness of BUT graduates. One of the BUT goals is to become a research university.\n\n\n\nBUT cooperation with industry includes among others:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "949755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949755", "title": "Canadian Indian residential school system", "text": "Canadian Indian residential school system\n\nIn Canada, the Indian residential school system was a network of boarding schools for Indigenous peoples. The network was funded by the Canadian government's Department of Indian Affairs and administered by Christian churches. The school system was created for the purpose of removing children from the influence of their own culture and assimilating them into the dominant Canadian culture. Over the course of the system's more than hundred-year existence, about 30 per cent of Indigenous children (around 150,000) were placed in residential schools nationally. The number of school-related deaths remains unknown due to an incomplete historical record, though estimates range from 3,200 upwards of 6,000.\n\nThe system had its origins in laws enacted before Confederation, but was primarily active from the passage of the Indian Act in 1876. An amendment to the Indian Act in 1884 made attendance at day schools, industrial schools, or residential schools compulsory for First Nations children. Due to the remote nature of many communities, school locations meant that for some families residential schools were the only way to comply. The schools were intentionally located at substantial distances from Indigenous communities to minimize contact between families and their children. Indian Commissioner Hayter Reed argued for schools at greater distances to reduce family visits, which he thought counteracted efforts to civilize Indigenous children. Parental visits were further restricted by the use of a pass system designed to confine Indigenous peoples to reserves. The last federally operated residential school closed in 1990. Schools operated in every province and territory with the exception of New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island.\n\nThe residential school system harmed Indigenous children significantly by removing them from their families, depriving them of their ancestral languages, exposing many of them to physical and sexual abuse, and forcibly enfranchising them. Disconnected from their families and culture and forced to speak English or French, students who attended the residential school system often graduated unable to fit into either their communities or Canadian society. It ultimately proved successful in disrupting the transmission of Indigenous practices and beliefs across generations. The legacy of the system has been linked to an increased prevalence of post-traumatic stress, alcoholism, substance abuse, and suicide, which persist within Indigenous communities today.\n\nOn June 11, 2008, Prime Minister Stephen Harper offered a public apology on behalf of the Government of Canada and the leaders of the other federal parties in the House of Commons. Nine days prior, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) was established to uncover the truth about the schools. The commission gathered statements from residential school survivors through public and private meetings at various local, regional and national events across Canada. Seven national events held between 2008 and 2013 commemorated the experience of former students of residential schools. In 2015, the TRC concluded with the establishment of the National Centre for Truth and Reconciliation, and the publication of a multi-volume report detailing the testimonies of survivors and historical documents from the time. The TRC report found that the school system amounted to cultural genocide.\n\nAttempts to assimilate Indigenous peoples were rooted in imperial colonialism, which centred around a European worldview of cultural practice and an understanding of land ownership based on the doctrine of Discovery. As explained in the executive summary of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission of Canada's (TRC) final report: \"Underlying these arguments was the belief that the colonizers were bringing civilization to savage people who could never civilize themselves. The 'civilizing mission' rested on a belief of racial and cultural superiority.\"\n\nAssimilation efforts began as early as the 17th century with the arrival of French colonists in New France. They were resisted by Indigenous communities who were unwilling to leave their children for extended periods and who came to associate missionaries with the diseases devastating Indigenous populations. The establishment of day and boarding schools by groups including the Récollets, Jesuits and Ursulines was largely abandoned by the 1690s. The political instability and realities of colonial life also played a role in the decision to halt the education programs. An increase in orphaned and foundling colonial children limited church resources, and colonists benefited from favourable relations with Indigenous peoples in both the fur trade and military pursuits.\n\nAfter a failure to assimilate Indigenous children by early missionaries in the 17th century, educational programs were not widely attempted again by religious officials until the 1820s, prior to the introduction of state-sanctioned operations. Included among them was a school established by John West, an Anglican missionary, at the Red River Colony in what is today Manitoba. Protestant missionaries also opened residential schools in the current Ontario region, spreading Christianity and working to encourage Indigenous peoples to adopt subsistence agriculture as a way to ensure they would not return to their original, nomadic ways of life upon graduation.\n\nAlthough many of these early schools were open for only a short time, efforts persisted. The Mohawk Institute Residential School, the oldest, continuously operated residential school in Canada, opened in 1834 on Six Nations of the Grand River near Brantford, Ontario. Administered by the Anglican Church, the facility opened as the Mechanics' Institute, a day school for boys, in 1828 and became a boarding school four years later when it accepted its first boarders and began admitting female students. It remained in operation until June 30, 1970.\n\nThe renewed interest in residential schools in the early 1800s has been linked to the decline in military hostility faced by British settlers, particularly after the War of 1812. With the threat of invasion by American forces minimized, Indigenous communities were no longer viewed as allies but as barriers to permanent settlement. This perspective was further underscored by the transfer of affairs with Indigenous communities from military officials, familiar with and sympathetic to their customs and way of life, to civilian representatives concerned only with permanent colonial settlement.\n\nBeginning in the late 1800s, the Canadian government's Department of Indian Affairs (DIA) officially encouraged the growth of the residential school system as a valuable component in a wider policy of integrating Indigenous people into European-Canadian society. Responsible for separating children from their families and communities, this process was found by the TRC to be cultural genocide, a conclusion that echoed the words of historian John S. Milloy, who argued that the system's aim was to \"kill the Indian in the child\". As the system was designed as an immersion program, children were in many schools prohibited from, and sometimes punished for, speaking their own languages or practising their own faiths. The primary stated goal was to convert Indigenous children to Christianity and to civilize them.\n\nMany of the government-operated residential schools were run by churches of various denominations, with the majority administered by Roman Catholics. Between 1867 and 1939, the number of schools operating at one time peaked at 80 in 1931. Of those schools, 44 were operated by Roman Catholics; 21 were operated by the Church of England / Anglican Church of Canada; 13 were operated by the United Church of Canada, and 2 were operated by Presbyterians. The approach of using established school facilities set up by missionaries was employed by the federal government for economic expedience: the government provided facilities and maintenance, while the churches provided teachers and their own lesson-planning. As a result, the number of schools per denomination was less a reflection of their presence in the general population, but rather their legacy of missionary work.\n\nAlthough education in Canada was made the jurisdiction of the provincial governments by the British North America Act, Indigenous peoples and their treaties were under the jurisdiction of the federal government. Residential schools were funded under the Indian Act by what was then the federal Department of the Interior. Adopted in 1876 as \"An Act to amend and consolidate the laws respecting Indians\", it consolidated all previous laws placing Indigenous communities, land and finances under federal control. As explained by the TRC, the Act \"made Indians wards of the state, unable to vote in provincial or federal elections or enter the professions if they did not surrender their status, and severely limited their freedom to participate in spiritual and cultural practices\".\n\nThe design of a federally supported residential school system relied on the expert advice of several prominent Canadian and British statesmen. Sir Peregrine Maitland, a British soldier and colonial administrator, first proposed boarding schools in 1820, believing that civilizing Indigenous children, rather than adults, was the best way to influence cultural change. Residential schools focused on imparting industry and knowledge were proposed again in 1845 in a report that had been commissioned by Governor General Charles Bagot, entitled \"Report on the affairs of the Indians in Canada\". Referred to as the Bagot Report, it is seen as the foundational document for the federal residential school system. It was supported by James Bruce, 8th Earl of Elgin, who had been impressed by industrial schools in the West Indies, and Egerton Ryerson, who was then the Chief Superintendent of Education in Upper Canada.\n\nOn May 26, 1847, Ryerson wrote a letter for George Vardon, Assistant Superintendent of Indian Affairs, asserting that \"the North American Indian cannot be civilized or preserved in a state of civilization (including habits of industry and sobriety) except in connection with, if not by the influence of, not only religious instruction and sentiment but of religious feelings\". He expressly recommended that Indigenous students be educated in a separate, denominational, English-only system with a focus on industrial training. This letter was published as an appendix to a larger report entitled \"Statistics Respecting Indian Schools\".\n\nThe Gradual Civilization Act of 1857 and the Gradual Enfranchisement Act of 1869 formed the foundations for this system prior to Confederation. These acts assumed the inherent superiority of French and British ways, and the need for Indigenous peoples to become French or English speakers, Christians, and farmers. At the time, many Indigenous leaders argued to have these acts overturned. The Gradual Civilization Act awarded of land to any Indigenous male deemed \"sufficiently advanced in the elementary branches of education\" and would automatically \"enfranchise\" him, removing any tribal affiliation or treaty rights. With this legislation, and through the creation of residential schools, the government believed Indigenous peoples could eventually become assimilated into the general population. For graduates to receive individual allotments of farmland would require changes in the communal reserve system, something fiercely opposed by First Nations governments.\n\nIn January 1879, Sir John A. Macdonald, Prime Minister of what was now post-Confederation Canada, commissioned politician Nicholas Flood Davin to write a report regarding the industrial boarding-school system in the United States. Now known as the Davin Report, the \"Report on Industrial Schools for Indians and Half-Breeds\" was submitted to Ottawa in March 14, 1879, and made the case for a cooperative approach between the Canadian government and the church to implement the \"aggressive assimilation\" pursued by President of the United States, Ulysses S. Grant. Davin's report relied heavily on findings he acquired through consultations with government officials and representatives of the Five Civilized Tribes in Washington, DC, and church officials in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He visited only one industrial day school, in Minnesota, before submitting his findings. In his report Davin concluded that the best way to civilize Indigenous peoples was to start with children in a residential setting, away from their families, so that they could be \"kept constantly within the circle of civilized conditions\".\n\nDavin's findings were supported by Vital-Justin Grandin, who felt that while the likelihood of civilizing adults was low, there was hope when it came to Indigenous children. He explained in a letter to Public Works Minister Hector-Louis Langevin that the best course of action would be make children \"lead a life different from their parents and cause them to forget the customs, habits & language of their ancestors\". In 1883 Parliament approved $43,000 for three industrial schools and the first, Battleford Industrial School, opened on December 1 of that year. By 1900 there were 61 schools in operation.\n\nThe government began purchasing church run boarding schools in the 1920s. During this period capital costs associated with the schools were assumed by the government, leaving administrative and instructional duties to church officials. The hope was that minimizing facility expenditures would allow church administrators to provide higher quality instruction and support to the students in their care. Although the government was willing to, and did, purchase schools from the churches, many were acquired for free given that the rampant disrepair present in the buildings resulted in their having no economic value. Schools continued to be maintained by churches in instances where they failed to reach an agreement with government officials with the understanding that the government would provide support for capital costs. The understanding ultimately proved complicated due to the lack of written agreements outlining the extent and nature of that support or the approvals required to undertake expensive renovations and repairs.\n\nBy the 1930s it was recognized by government officials that the residential school system was financially unsustainable and failing to meet the intended goal of training and assimilating Indigenous children into European-Canadian society. Robert Hoey, superintendent of welfare and training at Indian Affairs, opposed the expansion of new schools, noting in 1936 that \"to build educational institutions, particularly residential schools, while the money at our disposal is insufficient to keep the schools already erected in a proper state of repair, is, to me, very unsound and a practice difficult to justify\". He proposed the expansion of day schools, an approach to educating Indigenous children that he would continue to pursue after being promoted to director of the welfare and training branch in 1945. The proposal was resisted by the United Church, the Anglican Church, and the Missionary Oblates of Mary Immaculate, who believed that the solution to the system's failure was not restructuring but intensification.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1955, the number of day schools run by Indian Affairs expanded from 9,532 to 17,947. The growth in day schools was accompanied by an amendment to the Indian Act in 1951 that allowed federal officials to establish agreements with provincial and territorial governments and school boards regarding the education of Indigenous students in the public school system. These changes were indicative of the government's shift in policy from assimilation-driven education at residential schools to the integration of Indigenous students into public schools. It was believed that Indigenous children would receive a better education as a result of their transition into the public school system.\n\nDespite the shift in policy from educational assimilation to integration, the removal of Indigenous children from their families by state officials continued through much of the 1960s and 70s. The removals were the result of the 1951 addition of section 88 to the Indian Act, which allowed for the application of provincial laws to Indigenous peoples living on reserves in instances where federal laws were not in place. The change included the monitoring of child welfare. With no requirement for specialized training regarding the traditions or lifestyles of the communities they entered, provincial officials assessed the welfare of Indigenous children based on Euro-Canadian values that, for example, deemed traditional diets of game, fish and berries insufficient and grounds for taking children into custody. This period resulted in the widespread removal of Indigenous children from their traditional communities, first termed the Sixties Scoop by Patrick Johnston, the author of the 1983 report \"Native Children and the Child Welfare System\". Often taken without the consent of their parents or community elders, some children were placed in state-run child welfare facilities, increasingly operated in former residential schools, while others were fostered or placed up for adoption by predominantly non-Indigenous families throughout Canada and the United States. While the Indian and Northern Affairs estimates that 11,132 children were adopted between 1960 and 1990, the actual number may be as high as 20,000.\n\nIn 1969, after years of sharing power with churches, the DIA took sole control of the residential school system. The last residential school operated by the Canadian government, Gordon Indian Residential School in Saskatchewan, was closed in 1996. Residential schools operated in every Canadian province and territory with the exception of New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. It is estimated that the number of residential schools reached its peak in the early 1930s with 80 schools and more than 17,000 enrolled students. About 150,000 children are believed to have attended a residential school over the course of the system's existence.\n\nThe parents and families of Indigenous children resisted the residential school system throughout its existence. Children were kept from schools and, in some cases, hidden from government officials tasked with rounding up children on reserves. Parents regularly advocated for increased funding for schools, including the increase of centrally located day schools to improve access to their children, and made repeated requests for improvements to the quality of education, food, and clothing being provided at the schools. Demands for answers in regards to claims of abuse were often dismissed as a ploy by parents seeking to keep their children at home, with government and school officials positioned as those who knew best.\n\nIn 1884, amendments to the Indian Act made school attendance compulsory for Indigenous children between 7 and 16 years of age. The changes included a series of exemptions regarding school location, the health of the children and their prior completion of school examinations. It was changed to children between 6 and 15 years of age in 1908. The introduction of mandatory attendance was the result of pressure from missionary representatives. Reliant on student enrollment quotas to secure funding, they were struggling to attract new students due to increasingly poor school conditions.\n\nCompulsory attendance ended in 1948, following the 1947 report of a special joint committee and subsequent amendment of the Indian Act. Government officials were still able to influence student attendance. The introduction of the Family Allowance Act in 1945 stipulated that school-aged children had to be enrolled in school for families to qualify for the \"baby bonus\", further coercing Indigenous parents into having their children attend residential schools.\n\nStudents in the residential school system were faced with a multitude of abuses from teachers and administrators, including sexual and physical assault. They suffered from malnourishment and harsh discipline that would not have been tolerated in any other school system. Corporal punishment was often justified by a belief that it was the only way to save souls, civilize the savage, or punish and deter runaways – whose injuries or death sustained in their efforts to return home would become the legal responsibility of the school. Overcrowding, poor sanitation, inadequate heating, and a lack of medical care led to high rates of influenza and tuberculosis; in one school, the death rate reached 69 per cent. Federal policies that tied funding to enrollment numbers led to sick children being enrolled in order to boost numbers, thus introducing and spreading disease. The problem of unhealthy children was further exacerbated by the conditions of the schools themselves – overcrowding and poor ventilation, water quality and sewage systems.\n\nUntil the late 1950s, when the federal government shifted to a day school integration model, residential schools were severely underfunded and often relied on the forced labour of their students to maintain their facilities, although it was presented as training for artisan skills. The work was arduous, and severely compromised the academic and social development of the students. School books and textbooks were drawn mainly from the curricula of the provincially funded public schools for non-Indigenous students, and teachers at the residential schools were often poorly trained or prepared. During this same period, Canadian government scientists performed nutritional tests on students and knowingly kept some students undernourished to serve as the control sample.\n\nDetails of the mistreatment of students were published numerous times throughout the 20th century by both government officials, reporting on the condition of schools, and by the proceedings of civil cases brought forward by survivors seeking compensation for the abuse they endured. Attention to the conditions and impacts of residential schools were also brought to light in popular culture as early as 1967 with the publication of \"The Lonely Death of Chanie Wenjack\" by Ian Adams in \"Maclean's\" and the Indians of Canada Pavilion at Expo 67. In the 1990s, investigations and memoirs by former students revealed that many students at residential schools were subjected to severe physical, psychological, and sexual abuse by school staff members and by older students. Among the former students to come forward was Phil Fontaine, then Grand Chief of the Assembly of Manitoba Chiefs, who in October 1990 publicly discussed the abuse he and others suffered while attending Fort Alexander Indian Residential School.\n\nFollowing the government's closure of most of the schools in the 1960s, the work of Indigenous activists and historians led to greater awareness by the public of the damage the schools had caused, as well as to official government and church apologies, and a legal settlement. These gains were achieved through the persistent organizing and advocacy by Indigenous communities to draw attention to the residential school system's legacy of abuse, including their participation in hearings of the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples.\n\nParents and family members regularly travelled to the schools, often camping outside to be closer to their children. The number of parents who made the trip prompted Indian Commissioner Hayter Reed to argue that industrial schools, like residential schools, be moved greater distances from reserves to make visiting more difficult. He also objected to allowing children to return home during school breaks and holidays because he believed the trips interrupted the civilizing of school attendees. As Reed explained in 1894, the problem with day schools was that students returned home each night where they were influenced by life on the reserve, whereas \"in the boarding or industrial schools the pupils are removed for a long period from the leadings of this uncivilized life and receive constant care and attention\".\n\nVisitation, for those able to make the journey, was strictly controlled by school officials in a manner similar to the procedures enforced in the prison system. In some cases visitors were altogether denied access to their children, while in others families were required to meet in the presence of school officials and forced to communicate in English. For parents unable to speak the language, verbal communication with their children was impossible. The obstacles families faced to visit their children were further exacerbated by the pass system. Introduced by Reed without legislative authority to do so, the system restricted and closely monitored the movement of Indigenous peoples off reserves. Launched in 1885 as a response to the North-West Rebellion, and later replaced by permits, the system was designed to prevent Indigenous people from leaving reserves without a pass issued by a local Indian agent.\n\n Instruction provided to students was rooted in an institutional and European approach to education. It differed dramatically from child rearing in traditional knowledge systems that are generally based on 'look, listen, and learn' models. Unlike the corporal punishment and loss of privileges that characterized the residential school system, traditional approaches to education favour positive guidance toward desired behaviour through the use of game-based play, story-telling, and formal ritualized ceremonies. While at school, many children had no contact with their families for up to 10 months at a time because of the distance between their home communities and schools, and in some cases had no contact for years. The impact of the disconnect from their families was furthered by students being discouraged or prohibited from speaking Indigenous languages, even among themselves and outside the classroom, so that English or French would be learned and their own languages forgotten. In some schools, they were subject to physical violence for speaking their own languages or for practicing non-Christian faiths.\n\nMost schools operated with the goal of providing students with the vocational training and social skills required to obtain employment and integrate into Canadian society after graduation. In actuality, these goals were poorly and inconsistently achieved. Many graduates were unable to land a job due to poor educational training. Returning home was equally challenging due to an unfamiliarity with their culture and, in some cases, an inability to communicate with family members using their traditional language. Instead of intellectual achievement and advancement, it was often physical appearance and dress, like that of middle class, urban teenagers, or the promotion of a Christian ethic, that was used as a sign of successful assimilation. There was no indication that school attendees achieved greater financial success than those who did not go to school. As the father of a pupil who attended Battleford Industrial School, in Saskatchewan, for five years explained: \"he cannot read, speak or write English, nearly all his time having been devoted to herding and caring for cattle instead of learning a trade or being otherwise educated. Such employment he can get at home.\"\n\nResidential school deaths were common and have been linked to the persistence of poorly constructed and maintained facilities. The actual number of deaths remains unknown due to inconsistent reporting by school officials and the destruction of medical and administrative records in compliance with retention and disposition policies for government records. Research by the TRC revealed that at least 3,201 students had died, mostly from disease. TRC chair, Justice Murray Sinclair, has suggested that the number of deaths may be closer to more than 6,000.\n\nThe 1906 Annual Report of the Department of Indian Affairs, submitted by chief medical officer Peter Bryce, highlighted that the \"Indian population of Canada has a mortality rate of more than double that of the whole population, and in some provinces more than three times\". Among the list of causes he noted tuberculosis and the role residential schools played in spreading the disease by way of poor ventilation and medical screening.\n\nIn 1909, Bryce reported that, between 1894 and 1908, mortality rates at some residential schools in western Canada ranged from 30 to 60 per cent over five years (that is, five years after entry, 30 to 60 per cent of students had died, or 6 to 12 per cent per annum). These statistics did not become public until 1922, when Bryce, who was no longer working for the government, published \"The Story of a National Crime: Being a Record of the Health Conditions of the Indians of Canada from 1904 to 1921.\" In particular, he alleged that the high mortality rates could have been avoided if healthy children had not been exposed to children with tuberculosis. At the time, no antibiotic had been identified to treat the disease, and this exacerbated the impact of the illness. Streptomycin, the first effective treatment, was not introduced until 1943.\n\nIn 1920 and 1922, Regina physician F.A. Corbett was commissioned to visit the schools in the west of the country, and found similar results to those reported by Bryce. At the Ermineskin school in Hobbema, Alberta, he found 50 per cent of the children had tuberculosis. At Sarcee Boarding School near Calgary, he noted that all 33 students were \"much below even a passable standard of health\" and but four were infected with tuberculosis\". In one classroom, he found 16 ill children, many near death, who were being made to sit through lessons.\n\nIn 2011, reflecting on the TRC's research, Justice Murray Sinclair told the \"Toronto Star\": \"Missing children – that is the big surprise for me ... That such large numbers of children died at the schools. That the information of their deaths was not communicated back to their families.\"\n\nThe TRC concluded that it may be impossible to ever identify the number of deaths or missing children, in part because of the habit of burying students in unmarked graves. The work is further complicated by a pattern of poor record keeping by school and government officials, who neglected to keep reliable numbers about the number of children who died or where they were buried. While most schools had cemeteries on site, their location and extent remain difficult to determine as cemeteries that were originally marked were found to have been later razed, intentionally hidden or built over.\n\nThe fourth volume of the TRC's final report, dedicated to missing children and unmarked burials, was developed after the original TRC members realized, in 2007, that the issue required its own working group. In 2009, the TRC requested $1.5million in extra funding from the federal government to complete this work, but was denied. The researchers concluded, after searching land near schools using satellite imagery and maps, that, \"for the most part, the cemeteries that the Commission documented are abandoned, disused, and vulnerable to accidental disturbance\".\n\nWhen the government revised the Indian Act in the 1940s and 1950s, some bands, along with regional and national Indigenous organizations, wanted to maintain schools in their communities. Motivations for support of the schools included their role as a social service in communities that were suffering from extensive family breakdowns; the significance of the schools as employers; and the inadequacy of other opportunities for children to receive education. \n\nIn the 1960s, a major confrontation took place at the Saddle Lake Reserve in Alberta. After several years of deteriorating conditions and administrative changes, parents protested against the lack of transparency at the Blue Quills Indian School in 1969. In response, the government decided to close the school, convert the building into a residence, and enroll students in a public school away in St. Paul, Alberta. The TRC report pertaining to this period states:Fearing their children would face racial discrimination in St. Paul, parents wished to see the school transferred to a private society that would operate it both as a school and a residence. The federal government had been open to such a transfer if the First Nations organization was structured as a provincial school division. The First Nations rejected this, saying that a transfer of First Nations education to the provincial authority was a violation of Treaty rights. In the summer of 1970, members of the Saddle Lake community occupied the building and demanded the right to run it themselves. More than 1,000 people are believed to have participated over the course of the 17-day sit-in, which lasted from July 14 to 31. Their efforts resulted in Blue Quills becoming the first Indigenous-administered school in the country. It continues to operate today as University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į nistameyimâkanak Blue Quills, the first Indigenous-governed university in Canada. Following the success of the Blue Quills effort the National Indian Brotherhood (NIB) released the 1972 paper \"Indian Control of Indian Education\" that responded, in part, to the Canadian Government's 1969 White Paper calling for the abolishment of the land treaties and the Indian Act. The NIB paper underscored the right of Indigenous communities to locally direct how their children are educated and served as the integral reference for education policy moving forward.\n\nFew other former residential schools have transitioned into independently-operated community schools for Indigenous children. White Calf Collegiate in Lebret, Saskatchewan, was run by the Star Blanket Cree Nation from 1973 until its closure in 1998, after being run by the Oblates from 1884 to 1969. Old Sun Community College is run by the Siksika Nation in Alberta in a building designed by architect Roland Guerney Orr. From 1929 to 1971 the building housed Old Sun residential school, first run by the Anglicans and taken over by the federal government in 1969. It was converted to adult learning and stood as a campus of Mount Royal College from 1971 to 1978, at which point the Siksika Nation took over operations. In 1988, the Old Sun College Act was passed in the Alberta Legislature recognizing Old Sun Community College as a First Nations College.\n\nSurvivors of residential schools and their families have been found to suffer from historic trauma that has had a lasting and adverse effect on the transmission of Indigenous culture between generations. Passed on intergenerationally, a 2010 study led by Gwen Reimer explains historic trauma as the process through which \"cumulative stress and grief experienced by Aboriginal communities is translated into a collective experience of cultural disruption and a collective memory of powerlessness and loss\". It has been used to explain the persistent negative social and cultural impacts of colonial rule and residential schools, including the prevalence of sexual abuse, alcoholism, drug addiction, lateral violence, mental illness and suicide among Indigenous peoples.\n\nThe 2012 national report of the First Nations Regional Health Study found that of respondents who attended residential schools were more likely than those who did not to have been diagnosed with at least one chronic medical condition. A sample of 127 survivors revealed that half have criminal records; 65 per cent have been diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder; 21 per cent have been diagnosed with major depression; 7 per cent have been diagnosed with anxiety disorder; and 7 per cent have been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder.\n\nAlthough encouragement to keep Indigenous languages alive was present in some schools, a key tactic used to assimilate Indigenous children into Canadian society was to suppress Indigenous languages and culture. Many students spoke the language of their families fluently when they first entered residential schools. Teachers responded by strictly prohibiting the use of these languages despite many students having little or no understanding of English or French. The practice of traditional and spiritual activities including the Potlatch and Sun Dance were also banned. Some survivors reported being strapped or forced to eat soap when they were caught speaking their own language. The inability to communicate was further affected by their families' inabilities to speak English or French. Upon leaving residential school some survivors felt ashamed for being Indigenous as they were made to view their traditional identities as ugly and dirty.\n\nThe stigma created by the residential school system regarding transmission of Indigenous culture by elders to younger generations has been linked to the over-representation of Indigenous languages on the list of endangered languages in Canada. The TRC noted that the majority of 90 Indigenous languages still in existence are \"under serious threat of extinction\". With great-grandparents representing the only speakers of many Indigenous languages, it was concluded that a failure of governments and Indigenous communities to prioritize the teaching and preservation of traditional languages would ensure that, despite the closure of resident schools, the eradication of Indigenous culture desired by government officials and administrators would inevitably be fulfilled \"through a process systemic neglect\".\n\nAcknowledgment of the wrongs done by the residential school system began in the 1980s. In 1986, at its 31st General Council, the United Church of Canada responded to the request of Indigenous peoples that it apologize to them for its part in colonization and in 1998 apologized expressly for the role it played in the residential school system.\n\nArchbishop Michael Peers apologized to residential school survivors, on behalf of the Anglican Church of Canada, on August 6, 1993, at the National Native Convocation in Minaki, Ontario. The following year the Presbyterian Church in Canada adopted a confession at its 120th General Assembly in Toronto on June 5, recognizing its role in residential schools and seeking forgiveness. The confession was presented on October 8 during a ceremony in Winnipeg.\n\nIn 2004, immediately before signing the first Public Safety Protocol with the Assembly of First Nations, Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) Commissioner Giuliano Zaccardelli issued an apology on behalf of the RCMP for its role in the Indian residential school system: \"We, I, as Commissioner of the RCMP, am truly sorry for what role we played in the residential school system and the abuse that took place in the residential system.\"\n\nOn June 11, 2008, Prime Minister Stephen Harper issued a formal apology, on behalf of the sitting Cabinet, in front of an audience of Indigenous delegates, and in an address that was broadcast nationally on the CBC, for the past governments' policies of assimilation. The Prime Minister apologized not only for the known excesses of the residential school system, but for the creation of the system itself. Harper delivered the speech in the House of Commons; the procedural device of a Committee of the Whole was used, so that Indigenous leaders, who were not Members of Parliament, could be allowed to respond to the apology on the floor of the House.\n\nHarper's apology excluded Newfoundland and Labrador as it was argued that the government should not be held accountable for pre-Confederation actions. Residential schools in Newfoundland and Labrador were located in St. Anthony, Cartwright, North West River, Nain and Makkovik. These schools were run by the International Grenfell Association and the German Monrovian Missionaries. The government argued that because these schools were not created under the auspices of the Indian Act, they were not true residential schools. More than 1,000 survivors disagreed and filed a class action lawsuit against the government for compensation in 2007. By the time the suit was settled in 2016, almost a decade later, dozens of plaintiffs had died. It was expected that up to 900 former students would be compensated.\n\nOn November 24, 2017, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau issued a formal apology to former Innu, Inuit and NunatuKavut school survivors and their families during a ceremony in Happy Valley-Goose Bay, Labrador. He acknowledged that students experienced multiple forms of abuse linking their treatment to the colonial thinking that shaped the school system. Trudeau's apology was received on behalf of residential school survivors by Toby Obed who framed the apology as a key part of the healing process that connected survivors from Newfoundland and Labrador with school attendees from across the country. Members of the Innu Nation were less receptive, rejecting the apology ahead of the ceremony. Grand Chief Gregory Rich noted in a released statement that he was \"not satisfied that Canada understands yet what it has done to Innu and what it is still doing\", indicating that members felt they deserved an apology for more than their experiences at residential schools.\n\nOn June 22, 2015, Rachel Notley, Premier of Alberta, issued a formal apology as a ministerial statement in a bid to begin to address the wrongs done by the government to the Indigenous peoples of Alberta and the rest of Canada. Notley's provincial government called on the federal government to hold an inquiry on the missing and murdered Indigenous women in Canada at the same time. They also stated their intent to build relationships with provincial leaders of Indigenous communities, and sought to amend the provincial curriculum to include the history of Indigenous culture.\n\nOn June 18, 2015, Manitoba Premier Greg Selinger became the first politician to issue a formal apology for the government's role in the Sixties Scoop. Class action lawsuits have been brought against the Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Ontario governments for the harm caused to victims of the large-scale adoption scheme that saw thousands of Indigenous children forcibly removed from their parents in the 1960s. Indigenous leaders responded by insisting that while apologies were welcomed, action – including a federal apology, reunification of families, compensation and counselling for victims – must accompany words for them to have real meaning.\n\nOntario Premier Kathleen Wynne apologized on behalf of the provincial government for the harm done at residential schools at Legislative Assembly of Ontario on May 30, 2016. Affirming Ontario's commitment to reconciliation with Indigenous peoples she acknowledged the school system as \"one of the most shameful chapters in Canadian history\". In a 105-minute ceremony, Wynne announced that the Ontario government would spend $250million on education initiatives and renamed the Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs the Ministry of Indigenous Relations and Reconciliation. It was further announced that the first week of November would be known as Treaties Recognition Week.\n\nOn October 27, 2011, University of Manitoba president David Barnard apologized to the TRC for the institution's role in educating people who operated the residential school system. This is believed to be the first time a Canadian university has apologized for playing a role in residential schools.\n\nIn 2009, Chief Fontaine had a private meeting with Pope Benedict XVI to obtain an apology for abuses that occurred in the residential school system. Fontaine was accompanied at the meeting by a delegation of Indigenous peoples from Canada funded by Indian and Northern Affairs Canada. Following the meeting, the Vatican released an official expression of sorrow on the church's role in residential schools:\n\nHis Holiness [i.e. the Pope] recalled that since the earliest days of her presence in Canada, the Church, particularly through her missionary personnel, has closely accompanied the Indigenous peoples.\n\nGiven the sufferings that some Indigenous children experienced in the Canadian Residential School system, the Holy Father expressed his sorrow at the anguish caused by the deplorable conduct of some members of the Church and he offered his sympathy and prayerful solidarity. His Holiness emphasized that acts of abuse cannot be tolerated in society. He prayed that all those affected would experience healing, and he encouraged First Nations Peoples to continue to move forward with renewed hope.\nFontaine later stated at a news conference that, at the meeting, he sensed the Pope's \"pain and anguish\" and that the acknowledgement was \"important to [him] and that was what [he] was looking for\".\n\nOn May 29, 2017, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau asked the current Pope Francis for a public apology to all survivors of the residential school system, rather than the expression of sorrow issued in 2009. The request aligned with the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's call for \"a formal apology issued by the Pope to the survivors of the residential school system for the spiritual, cultural, emotional, physical and sexual abuse of Canada's First Nations, Inuit and Métis peoples\". Trudeau invited the Pope to issue the apology in Canada. Although no commitment for such an apology followed the meeting, he noted that the Pope pointed to a lifelong commitment of supporting marginalized people and an interest in working collaboratively with Trudeau and Canadian bishops to establish a way forward.\n\nIn the summer of 1990, the Mohawks of Kanesatake confronted the government about its failure to honour Indigenous land claims and recognize traditional Mohawk territory in Oka, Quebec. Referred to by media outlets as the Oka Crisis, the land dispute sparked a critical discussion about the Canadian government's complacency regarding relations with Indigenous communities and responses to their concerns. The action prompted then Prime Minister Brian Mulroney to underscore four government responsibilities: \"resolving land claims; improving the economic and social conditions on reserves; defining a new relationship between aboriginal peoples and governments; and addressing the concerns of Canada's aboriginal peoples in contemporary Canadian life.\" The actions of the Mohawk community members led to, in part, along with objections from Indigenous leaders regarding the Meech Lake Accord, the creation of the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples to examine the status of Indigenous peoples in Canada. In 1996, the Royal Commission presented a final report which first included a vision for meaningful and action-based reconciliation.\n\nIn January 1998, the government made a \"statement of reconciliation\" – including an apology to those people who were sexually or physically abused while attending residential schools – and established the Aboriginal Healing Foundation (AHF). The foundation was provided with $350million to fund community-based healing projects addressing the legacy of physical and sexual abuse. In its 2005 budget, the Canadian government committed an additional $40million to support the work of the AHF. Federal funding for the foundation was cut in 2010 by the Stephen Harper government, leaving 134 national healing-related initiatives without an operating budget. The AHF closed in 2014. Former AHF executive director Mike DeGagne has said that the loss of AHF support has created a gap in dealing with mental health crises such as suicides in the Attawapiskat First Nation.\n\nIn June 2001, the government established Indian Residential Schools Resolution Canada as an independent government department to manage the residential school file. In 2003, the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process was launched as part of a larger National Resolution Framework which included health supports, a commemoration component and a strategy for litigation. As explained by the TRC, the ADR was designed as a \"voluntary process for resolution of certain claims of sexual abuse, physical abuse, and forcible confinement, without having to go through the civil litigation process\". It was created by the Canadian government without consultation with Indigenous communities or former residential school students. The ADR system also made it the responsibility of the former students to prove that the abuse occurred and was intentional, resulting in former students finding the system difficult to navigate, re-traumatizing, and discriminatory. Many survivor advocacy groups and Indigenous political organizations such as the Assembly of First Nations (AFN) worked to have the ADR system dissolved. In 2004 the Assembly of First Nations released a report critical of the ADR underscoring, among other issues, the failure of survivors to automatically receive the full amount of compensation without subsequent ligation against the church and failure to compensate for lost family, language and culture. The Canadian House of Commons Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development released its own report in April 2005 finding the ADR to be \"an excessively costly and inappropriately applied failure, for which the Minister and her officials are unable to raise a convincing defence\". Within a month of the report's release a Supreme Court of Canada decision granted school attendees the right to pursue class-action suits, which ultimately led to a government review of the compensation process.\n\nOn November 23, 2005, the Canadian government announced a $1.9-billion compensation package to benefit tens of thousands of former students. National Chief of the AFN, Phil Fontaine, said the package was meant to cover \"decades in time, innumerable events and countless injuries to First Nations individuals and communities\". Justice Minister Irwin Cotler applauded the compensation decision noting that the placement of children in the residential school system was \"the single most harmful, disgraceful and racist act in our history\". At an Ottawa news conference, Deputy Prime Minister Anne McLellan said: \"We have made good on our shared resolve to deliver what I firmly believe will be a fair and lasting resolution of the Indian school legacy.\"\n\nThe compensation package led to the Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement (IRSSA), announced on May 8, 2006, and implemented in September 2007. At the time, there were about 86,000 living victims. The IRSSA included funding for the AHF, for commemoration, for health support, and for a Truth and Reconciliation program, as well as an individual Common Experience Payment (CEP). Any person who could be verified as having resided at a federally run Indian residential school in Canada was entitled to a CEP. The amount of compensation was based on the number of years a particular former student resided at the residential schools: $10,000 for the first year attended (from one night residing there to a full school year) plus $3,000 for every year thereafter.\n\nThe IRSSA also included the Independent Assessment Process (IAP), a case-by-case, out-of-court resolution process designed to provide compensation for sexual, physical and emotional abuse. The IAP process was built on the ADR program and all IAP claims from former students are examined by an adjudicator. The IAP became available to all former students of residential schools on September 19, 2007. Former students who experienced abuse and wished to pursue compensation had to apply by themselves or through a lawyer of their choice to receive consideration. The deadline to apply for the IAP was September 19, 2012. This gave former students of residential schools four years from the implementation date of the IRSSA to apply for the IAP. Claims involving physical and sexual abuse were compensated up to $275,000. By the end of January 2017, the IAP had resolved 36,538 claims and paid $3.1billion in compensation.\n\nThe IRSSA also proposed an advance payment for former students alive and who were 65 years old and over as of May 30, 2005. The deadline for reception of the advance payment form by IRSRC was December 31, 2006. Following a legal process, including an examination of the IRSSA by the courts of the provinces and territories of Canada, an \"opt-out\" period occurred. During this time, the former students of residential schools could reject the agreement if they did not agree with its dispositions. This opt-out period ended on August 20, 2007, with about 350 former students opting out. The IRSSA was the largest class action settlement in Canadian history. By December 2012, a total of $1.62billion was paid to 78,750 former students, 98 per cent of the 80,000 who were eligible. In 2014, the IRSSA funds left over from CEPs were offered for educational credits for survivors and their families.\n\nIn 2008, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) was established to travel across Canada collecting the testimonies of people affected by the residential school system. About 6,000 Indigenous people told their stories. The TRC concluded in 2015 with the publication of a six volume, 4,000-plus-page report detailing the testimonies of survivors and historical documents from the time. It focused on the importance of moving \"from apology to action\" to achieve true reconciliation and resulted in the establishment of the National Centre for Truth and Reconciliation.\n\nThe executive summary of the TRC concluded that the assimilation amounted to cultural genocide. The ambiguity of the phrasing allowed for the interpretation that physical and biological genocide also occurred. The TRC was not authorized to conclude that physical and biological genocide occurred, as such a finding would imply a legal responsibility of the Canadian government that would be difficult to prove. As a result, the debate about whether the Canadian government also committed physical and biological genocide against Indigenous populations remains open.\n\nAmong the 94 Calls to Action that accompanied the conclusion of the TRC were recommendations to ensure that all Canadians are educated and made aware of the residential school system. Justice Murray Sinclair explained that the recommendations were not aimed solely at prompting government action, but instead a collective move toward reconciliation in which all Canadians have a role to play: \"Many of our elements, many of our recommendations and many of the Calls to Action are actually aimed at Canadian society.\"\n\nPreservation of documentation of the legacy of residential schools was also highlighted as part of the TRC's Calls to Action. Community groups and other stakeholders have variously argued for documenting or destroying evidence and testimony of residential school abuses. On April 4, 2016, the Ontario Court of Appeal ruled that documents pertaining to IAP settlements will be destroyed in 15 years if individual claimants do not request to have their documents archived. This decision was fought by the TRC as well as the federal government, but argued for by religious representatives.\n\nIn March 2017, Lynn Beyak, a Conservative member of the Senate Standing Committee of Aboriginal Peoples, voiced disapproval of the final TRC report, saying that it had omitted an \"abundance of good\" that was present in the schools. Although Beyak's right to free speech was defended by some Conservative senators, her comments were widely criticized by members of the opposition, among them Minister of Indigenous and Northern Affairs, Carolyn Bennett, and leader of the New Democratic Party, Tom Mulcair. The Anglican Church also raised concerns stating in a release co-signed by bishops Fred Hiltz and Mark MacDonald: \"There was nothing good about children going missing and no report being filed. There was nothing good about burying children in unmarked graves far from their ancestral homes.\" In response, the Conservative Party leadership removed Beyak from the Senate committee underscoring that her comments did not align with the views of the party.\n\nThe four churches of the Indian Residential Schools Settlement Agreement – the United, Roman Catholic, Anglican and Presbyterian churches – agreed to participate in the reconciliation process between Indigenous and settler Canadians. They have been involved in funding various projects and services that assist former residential school students and their families in healing from the trauma caused by the schools. The Anglican Church of Canada set up the Anglican Healing Fund in the 1990s to respond to the ongoing need for healing related to residential schools. In the 2000s the United Church established the Justice and Reconciliation Fund to support healing initiatives and the Presbyterian Church has established a Healing & Reconciliation Program.\n\nThe churches have also engaged in reconciliation initiatives such as the Returning to Spirit: Residential School Healing and Reconciliation Program, a workshop that aims to unite Indigenous and non-Indigenous people through discussing the legacy of residential schools and fostering an environment for them to communicate and develop mutual understanding. In 2014, the federal government ceased to contribute funds to Indigenous health organizations such as the AHF and the National Aboriginal Health Organization. Since then, more pressure has been placed on churches to sustain their active participation in these healing efforts.\n\nFor many communities the existence of buildings that formerly housed residential schools is a traumatic reminder of the system's legacy, and there has been much discussion about demolition, heritage status and how the possibility of incorporating sites into the healing process.\nIn July 2016, it was announced that the building of the former Mohawk Institute Residential School would be converted into an educational centre with exhibits on the legacy of residential schools. Ontario's Minister of Indigenous Relations and Reconciliation, David Zimmer, noted: \"Its presence will always be a reminder of colonization and the racism of the residential school system; one of the darkest chapters of Canadian history.\"\n\nReconciliation efforts have also been undertaken by several Canadian universities. In 2015 Lakehead University and the University of Winnipeg introduced a mandatory course requirement for all undergraduate students focused on Indigenous culture and history. The same year the University of Saskatchewan hosted a two-day national forum at which Canadian university administrators, scholars and members of Indigenous communities discussed how Canadian universities can and should respond to the TRC's Calls to Action. \n\nOn April 1, 2017, a pole, titled \"Reconciliation Pole\", was raised on the grounds of the University of British Columbia (UBC) Vancouver campus, which sits on the unceded territory of the Musqueam people. Carved by Haida master carver and hereditary chief, 7idansuu (Edenshaw), James Hart, the pole tells the story of the residential school system prior to, during and after its operation. It features thousands of copper nails, used to represent the children who died in Canadian residential schools, and depictions of residential school survivors carved by artists from multiple Indigenous communities. Included among them are Canadian Inuk director Zacharias Kunuk, Maliseet artist Shane Perley-Dutcher, and Muqueam Coast Salish artist Susan Point.\n\nIn October 2016, Canadian singer-songwriter Gord Downie released \"Secret Path\", a concept album about Chanie Wenjack's escape and death. It was accompanied by a graphic novel and animated film, aired on CBC Television. All proceeds go to the University of Manitoba's Centre for Truth and Reconciliation. Following his death in October 2017, Downie's brother Mike said he was aware of 40,000 teachers who had used the material in their classrooms, and hoped to continue this. In December 2017, Downie was posthumously named Canadian Newsmaker of the Year by the Canadian Press, in part because of his work with reconciliation efforts for survivors of residential schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "7617470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7617470", "title": "Career assessment", "text": "Career assessment\n\nCareer assessments are tools that are designed to help individuals understand how a variety of personal attributes (i.e., data values, preferences, motivations, aptitudes and skills), impact their potential success and satisfaction with different career options and work environments. Career assessments have played a critical role in career development and the economy in the last century (Whiston and Rahardja, 2005). Assessments of some or all of these attributes are often used by individuals or organizations, such as university career service centers, career counselors, outplacement companies, corporate human resources staff, executive coaches, vocational rehabilitation counselors, and guidance counselors to help individuals make more informed career decisions.\n\nIn part, the popularity for this tool is due to the National Defense Education Act of 1958, which funded career guidance in schools. Focus was put onto tools that would help high school students determine which subjects they may want to focus on to reach a chosen career path. Since 1958, career assessment tool options have exploded.\n\nCareer assessments come in many forms and vary along several dimensions. The assessments selected by individuals or administrators vary depending on their personal beliefs regarding the most important criteria when considering career choices, as well as the unique needs of the individual considering a career decision. Some common points of variance are:\n\nCareer assessments are designed to discover the skills, aptitude and talents of candidates. A self-assessment can be a useful tool in assessing the areas in which a candidate has strengths and limitations. The results can be useful in helping candidates to choose a career that is in tune with their goals and talents. While the validation of each instrument may vary from test to test, overall these types of assessments have been proven to introduce more career options, increase satisfaction in one’s career plan and increase the understanding of oneself (Prince et al., 2003).\n\nData as to how often people change careers are unavailable while there's a considerable mythology about it, no systematic studies have been undertaken. However, many people change careers more than once. Some make changes because the career path they chose is no longer viable (to wit, buggy whip makers are no longer in high demand). Or because as they mature throughout their lifespan their interests evolve. The biggest benefit of career assessment, therefore, is that it enables candidates to make the best career decisions to grow both personally and professionally.\n\nTo make an assessment of their skills, candidates can pursue many avenues, they can take career interest tests such as the Strong Interest Inventory or the Campbell Interest and Skill inventory, which is based on the Strong. Alternatively, they can conduct a self-assessment; they can use the plethora of career books designed to help with this task. In fact, there are myriad helpful books, the most famous of which is, Richard Bolles, \"What Color is Your Parachute.\" In addition, they can seek expert help from career counselors, career coaches or, when warranted, psychologists or other mental health professionals. These professionals use a variety of techniques to determine the talents of candidates. Also, career counselors, career coaches and executive coaches can guide candidates on how to go about planning their career to achieve professional success.\n\nPeople who are unhappy in their work-life may be uncertain as to where to turn for help. They may have seen career counselors or career coaches or read self-help books and found that their difficulties did not yield to these interventions.\n\nIndividuals may be stymied in their careers not only because they lacked career development and job hunting skills but also because they were driven by unconscious factors outside of their awareness.\n\nPsychoanalytically-Informed Career Assessment (also referred to as psychodynamic career assessment) developed in 2000 by Dr. Lynn Friedman, aims to understand the unconscious factors that create conflicts and identify ways to resolve these conflicts.\n\nFocused on individuals who seek career counseling, but end up undermining the process, Psychoanalytically-Informed Career Assessment explores whether the conflicts seen in their careers or career counseling sessions are repeated elsewhere in their lives, for example in school, or with their parents.\n\nInterventions for these individuals might include one or all of the following: career counseling, psychotherapy or psychoanalysis.\n\nCareer assessment, in the form of tests and other structured and unstructured tools, can be very useful for those who are uncertain about the array of career possibilities. However, there are some drawbacks to each. At best, the results of individual career assessments provide targeted information that may not address a particular individual's needs. In addition, some of the best individual assessment tools require the help of a qualified professional to ensure the results are interpreted correctly and usefully.\n\nAlso, many of the tests are based on the person’s view of himself or herself. If someone is not self-aware, the results may not be accurate. Many times they do not take into account that people have natural blind spots. The test is only as good as its user and individuals are often not clearly aware of their own strengths and weaknesses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3703232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3703232", "title": "Civilian Pilot Training Program", "text": "Civilian Pilot Training Program\n\nThe Civilian Pilot Training Program (CPTP) was a flight training program (1938–1944) sponsored by the United States government with the stated purpose of increasing the number of civilian pilots, though having a clear impact on military preparedness.\n\nIn the years immediately preceding World War II, several European countries, particularly Italy and Nazi Germany, began training thousands of young people to become pilots. Purportedly civilian in nature, these European government-sponsored programs were, in fact, nothing more than military flight training academies.\n\nIn October 1938, General Henry H. \"Hap\" Arnold brought in the top three aviation school representatives to request they establish an unfunded startup of CPTP schools at their own risk. These were Oliver Parks of Parks Air College, C. C. Moseley of the Curtiss-Wright Technical Institute, and Theophilus Lee of the Boeing School of Aeronautics; all agreed to start work. The CAA headed by Robert Hinckley,created the Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938 that contained language authorizing and funding a trial program for what would evolve into the Civilian Pilot Training Program (CPTP). President Franklin D. Roosevelt unveiled the program on December 27, 1938, announcing at a White House press conference that he had signed off on a proposal to provide a needed boost to general aviation by providing pilot training to 20,000 college students a year.\n\nFollowing the precedent established by the Europeans, the CPTP was established as a civilian program but its potential for national defense was undisguised. The program started in 1939 with two laws passed by Congress in April and June, with the government paying for a 72-hour ground school course followed by 35 to 50 hours of flight instruction at facilities located near eleven colleges and universities. It was an unqualified success and provided a grand vision for its supporters—to greatly expand the nation's civilian pilot population by training thousands of college students to fly.\n\nThe military establishment was initially unenthusiastic about the CPTP concept, quite unimpressed by any program initiated and administered by civilians. Congress, too, was split along mostly party lines as to the value of the CPTP. Isolationists branded the program as provocative saber-rattling that threatened the nation's neutrality; others slammed it as a pork barrel waste of tax dollars, while supporters touted the positive impacts on the aviation industry and the defense value of a vastly enlarged base of trained pilots.\n\nAfter the Nazi invasion of Poland on September 1, 1939, triggered World War II, the military value of the CPTP became obvious, even to the program's detractors. The United States started to evaluate its ability to fight an air war and the results were appalling. Pilots, instructors, and training aircraft were all in short supply. Acknowledging the shortage of trained pilots, both the Army Air Corps and Navy reluctantly waived certain “elimination” courses for CPTP graduates and allowed them to proceed directly into pilot training.\n\nThe Army Air Corps deemed the situation to be so grave it proposed that private aviation be suspended and all pilot training (most notably the CPTP) be brought under the control of the military. The December 13, 1940, issue of \"American Aviation Daily\" carried this account of the Army's intentions:\n“Preliminary plans are understood to be already drafted by the Army to ground all private flying in the United States for the duration of the national emergency...The Army will take over all training (including CPTP).”\nThe Army's proposal met with stiff resistance. Just two weeks after the American Aviation Daily article appeared, 83 companies with a vested interest in general aviation organized the National Aviation Training Association (NATA). NATA members recognized that, if left unchallenged, the Army plan would, for all practical purposes, ban private aircraft from U.S. skies. The NATA and other aviation interests blunted the Army's bid with an effective lobbying campaign in Congress. Their actions not only saved the CPTP, they may have saved the entire general aviation industry in the United States.\n\nThe result was a revitalized CPTP and an expansion of its curriculum to a larger segment of the nation's colleges and universities. In May 1939 the first nine schools were selected, nine more were added in August 1940 (as the Battle of Britain was raging), 11 more in March 1941, and 15 more by October 1941—four months after the formation of the USAAF—and just two months before the United States' entry into World War II. By the program's peak, 1,132 educational institutions and 1,460 flight schools were participating in the CPTP. Institutions such as the University of Michigan; University of Virginia; University of Washington; Georgia Institute of Technology; Pomona Junior College; San Jose State Teachers College; and most notably, the Tuskegee Institute, all included the CPTP in their curricula. (See References below to access complete list of educational institutions participating in the CPTP.)\n\nThe inclusion of Tuskegee University in the ranks of CPTP participants, along with Hampton University, Virginia State University, Delaware State University, and Howard University, helped open the doors for the first African-American military pilots. The onset of World War II and political pressure combined to compel the U.S. Army Air Corps — as it was known before June 20, 1941 — to employ African-Americans as officers and pilots, with the majority of its personnel being graduates of the CPTP.\n\nThe decision to train civilian pilots also produced an unexpected, but welcome, side effect on the general aviation industry. As it turned out, the United States faced just as large a shortage of training aircraft as it did civilian pilots. The federal Civil Aeronautics Authority (predecessor of the Federal Aviation Administration) regulations required a CPTP-participating flight school to own one aircraft for every ten students enrolled in the program.\n\nFurthermore, the requirements specified for these aircraft narrowed down the field to only several models in production at that time, with most flight schools preferring the tandem-seat configuration of the Piper Cub. Seizing the opportunity unexpectedly thrust upon them, several light aircraft manufacturers quickly filled the market void with CPTP-compatible aircraft of their own, such as the WACO UPF-7 and the Meyers OTW biplane. Aeronca and Taylorcraft also produced tandem versions of their existing side-by-side seating high-winged monoplanes, each of which would lead to their own military equivalents.\n\nAfter the attack on Pearl Harbor and the U.S. entrance into World War II, the CPTP changed forever, including the name. The Civilian Pilot Training Program became the War Training Service (WTS) and, from 1942 to 1944, served primarily as the screening program for potential pilot candidates. Students still attended classes at colleges and universities and flight training was still conducted by private flight schools, but all WTS graduates were required to sign a contract agreeing to enter the military following graduation. There is a list of colleges and universities participating in the CPTP in '43-'44 in the appendix of \"They Flew Proud\".\n\nThe CPTP/WTS program was largely phased out in the summer of 1944, but not before 435,165 people, including hundreds of women and African-Americans, had been taught to fly. Notable legends trained under the CPTP include: Astronaut/Senator John Glenn, top Navy ace Alexander Vraciu, Douglas test pilot Robert Rahn, top World War II ace Major Richard Bong, triple ace Bud Anderson, former Senator George McGovern, WASP Dora Dougherty and Tuskegee airman Major Robert W. Deiz. The CPTP admirably achieved its primary mission, best expressed by the title of aviation historian Dominick Pisano's book, \"To Fill the Skies with Pilots\".\n\nTwo of the largest CPT/WTS schools were Piedmont Aviation, operated by Tom Davis, and Southern Airways, operated by Frank W. Hulse. Piedmont's school was based in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, while Southern had schools in Charlotte, North Carolina, Greenville and Camden, South Carolina, and in Birmingham and Decatur, Alabama. Both companies trained over 60,000 war pilots including young men from Brazil (Piedmont) and a large number of Royal Air Force pilots from England (Southern). By 1947 Davis had turned his school into Piedmont Airlines with scheduled passenger flights between North Carolina and Ohio. In 1949, Hulse had Southern Airways flying commercial service between Jacksonville, Florida and Memphis, Tennessee, and between Atlanta and Charlotte. Both airlines began operations with war surplus Douglas DC-3 aircraft that were modified for commercial service in their former CPT/WTS maintenance hangars.\n\nOne of the few women instructors in the CPTP later wrote about her experiences. With the threat of war rising on the horizon, Opal Kunz renewed her pilot’s license after taking a refresher course at Hagerstown, Maryland, and began teaching aviation students at the Arkansas State College (now Arkansas State University). She later moved to Rhode Island, and at the start of World War II became an instructor at the Rhode Island State Airport Terminal for Navy cadets and the government sponsored “Civilian Pilot Training Program (CPTP)” during the war, teaching over 400 young men how to fly for the Air Corps. This was her old dream of the Betsy Ross Air Corps come true, as she helped train the men who would fly fighter aircraft in combat. An account from the time shows the work she was doing by saying: “Mrs. Kunz has been in Providence since January [1942] as a member of the staff of E. W. Wiggins Airways. She has a mother’s confidence in her ‘boys’ and they reciprocate with respect and enthusiasm. Nothing gives her greater joy than to see them solo, to know she has taken them one step nearer to Uncle Sam’s aerial defense line.” Later, at her home in California, she would recall her experiences with fondness. “I trained about 400 boys and it was easily the highlight of my career. I really became a sort of foster mother to them. You would be surprised how many of my boys brought their wives and children to see me after the war.” She also indicated in a letter that she had trained combat pilots. “...I was a flight instructor all during the war. Had over three hundred students who served as combat pilots in the war.”\n\nAt least one CPTP graduate, Betty Tackaberry Blake, went on to serve as a Women Airforce Service Pilot (WASP).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30880207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30880207", "title": "Compit Educational Centre", "text": "Compit Educational Centre\n\nCompit Educational Centre or Compit for short, is a privately operated school system located in Easleigh, Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nCompit was founded in 2001-2002 school year to meet the schooling needs for ever increasing Somali immigrants in Kenya's capital.\n\nStudents at Compit are young people fleeing from war torn areas in Somalia from such places like Mogadishu, Kismayo, Bardera, Beled Haawo, Belet wayne and other large towns in the south of the country where much of the population of Somalia once lived.\n\nCompit started operating from rented facilities opposite from 6th Street Mosque and it grew over the years. By school year 2010, the school's student body stands at 2,800 students.\n\nTwo types of students attend Compit Educuational Centre, uniformed students and non-uniform students. High school students go to classrooms in Easleigh's section III. The two other locations; 6th street and Sunrise Shopping Centre are non-uniformed although uniformed Standard Eight classes are formed in last quarter of 2010.\n\nThe manager of Compit Education Centre, Hassan Buule Faliir and school's principal Mr. Otieno plan to graduate each year 400 students, 200 each from Standard Eight and Form Four classes.\n\nPrimary and secondary education diplomas are granted from qualifying curriculum and policies from Kenya Education System and Compit has been part of this process from the start. Primary education certificate or standard/grade 1-8 or KCPE and secondary education which is grade 9 or form II- to form IV or KCSE are granted at Compit Educational Centre graduates. Both KCPE (Kenya Certificate of Primary Education) and KCSE (Kenya Certificate for Secondary Education) are being debated about their validity according to a new education commission.\n\nCompit is registered with a host of institutions and governmental agencies such as the Kenya Ministry of Education and Computer Society of https://web.archive.org/web/20110623100404/http://www.cskonline.org/training.html. Leaving graduation certificates such as Primary Education and Secondary Education are obtained from the Kenya Ministry of Education. Students sit on annual leaving exams of primary and secondary education which are available across Kenya.\n\nFor 2010 School year, Compit Educational Centre is still renting classrooms and offices from ordinary looking business places such as Sunrise Shopping Center on 2nd Avenue in Eastleigh. The original 6th street location which opened in 2011 is still being used as offices as well as classrooms.\n\n"}
{"id": "39757746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39757746", "title": "Crows Explode", "text": "Crows Explode\n\nKaburagi Kazeo is a new transfer student at Suzuran All-Boys High School. While walking to school, he witnesses a group of students get clipped by a passing town car. He arrives just in time for the “opening ceremony”, a showdown between Goura Toru, the school's number one fighter, and another student. The fracas is interrupted by the arrival of Kagami Ryohei, another transfer student, whose arrogance immediately draws the ire of the crowd. Recognizing his vehicle as the town car from earlier, Kazeo confronts Ryohei, who ignores him and walks away. Before he can follow, Kazeo is attacked by another student, Wajima, whom he promptly knocks out with a single punch.\n\nAt the Doberman Bar, former mob enforcer Katagiri Ken enjoys a drink while trying to keep a low profile. He encounters Makise Takashi, whom he implores to forget they saw each other. Makise instead ropes Ken into coming to work with him at a local auto dealer. Back at Suzuran, Kazeo is approached by Ogisu Kenichi, who explains that since beating Wajima at the opening ceremony, Kazeo has been ranked as the school's number five fighter. He goes on to suggest that Kazeo might be a contender to take on Goura for the top spot, and that they should join forces. Kazeo rejects the idea, asserting that he has no interest in conquering Suzuran. Meanwhile, Ryohei begins taking on challengers, and proves to be a skilled fighter himself.\n\nLater, at the bar, Kazeo and Kenichi get into a scrap with Shibata Hiroki, the top fighter from neighboring Kurosaki Industrial High. Back at the Nakata dealership, Ken is adjusting well to his new life as a salesman, and has become smitten with the owner, Aya. However, he soon discovers that the local mob is trying to force the shop out in order to redevelop the land. To protect Aya and the business, Ken goes to see the mob boss, Mr. Nara, who refuses to stop pursuing the Nakata property. During the meeting, Ken encounters Fujiwara, a former Kurosaki student turned mob recruit, as well Ryohei. Having known Ryohei's father from his former profession, Ken is disheartened to learn that Ryohei is now being groomed as Nara's successor.\n\nKazeo visits the cemetery accompanied by his mother, with whom he has a strained relationship. It is revealed that his father was a professional boxer who died due to injuries sustained during a match, and that his mother subsequently developed problems with drinking and gambling. The next day, Ken comes to Suzuran to find Ryohei but runs into Kazeo, with whom he shares stories of his youth at the school. Fujiwara is sent on behalf of the Nara Gang to harass the Nakata shop. He also begins stirring up conflict between Kurosaki and Suzuran as revenge against Shibata, with whom he holds a grudge following an incident which landed Fujiwara in prison. His plan pays off, as an enraged Goura begins attacking Kurosaki students in retaliation. Goura soon learns that Ryohei and Fujiwara are acquainted, but is stabbed by a Kurosaki student.\n\nShibata confronts Fujiwara, but is defeated and left with a broken arm. Ryohei and his gang begin relentless assaults at Suzuran, resulting in Kenichi being hospitalized. The injured Goura challenges Ryohei, but is also defeated, and Ryohei is named Suzuran's top fighter. Later, Fujiwara and Ryohei return to the Nakata shop to shut it down once and for all, setting fire to the building. Escaping the blaze, Ken seeks out Kazeo and begs him to stop Ryohei, for his own good. Spurred on by the escalating violence, Kazeo assembles his own force to take back the school.\n\nKazeo leads his gang, joined by Goura, to confront Ryohei and Fujiwara. Despite his injury, Goura singlehandedly dispatches many opponents before taking on Fujiwara himself, where he quickly loses the upper hand. As Fujiwara prepares to finish Goura, Shibata arrives. Noticing burns on Shibata’s chest that he caused, Fujiwara admits that he had deserved to have been punished for his actions; he apologizes to Shibata and retreats. Kazeo finally clashes with Ryohei, and after an intense and lengthy battle, he emerges victorious. Ken arrives soon after and whisks the battered Ryohei off for treatment, and away from the influence of the Nara Gang.\n\nSometime later, the Nakata auto shop has been renovated and is a thriving business again. Kazeo, having become the number one fighter and united the school, faces down the final obstacle on his path to completely conquering Suzuran - the indomitable Rindaman. The film ends as their battle begins.\n\n\nThe first trailer was released online by World Cinema News on April 17, 2013. The cast was officially revealed at a press conference on April 3, 2013. Kyosuke Yabe, Tsutomu Takahashi, and Motoki Fukami reprised their roles as Katagiri, Makise, and Rindaman respectively.\n\nReviews of the film have been neutral. Mark Schilling of \"The Japan Times\" gave it two-and-a-half out of five stars, praising the film's acting and fight sequences, while criticizing the formulaic nature of the genre, saying \"After seeing too many fists slamming into too many faces for reasons only testosterone-charged delinquents find compelling, I’m calling time-out on the whole genre.\"\n\nAs of 11 May 2014, the film has grossed US$10,315,875 in Japan.\n\n\"Crows Explode\" was released on Blu-ray and DVD in Japan on 22 October 2014, in standard and premium editions.\nIt is set to be released on home media in Spain by Mediatres Estudio, in accordance to an agreement between them and the Tokyo Broadcasting System. A date for the Spanish release remains to be determined.\n\nIn conjunction with the release of the film, \"Shōnen Champion Comics\" published a one-shot prequel manga titled \"Crows Explode Gaiden\", written by \"Crows\" author Hiroshi Takahashi with art by Tetsuhiro Hirakawa. A new manga adaptation, illustrated by \"Tatsuya Kanda\", was launched in the 2018 November issue of \"Shōnen Champion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11282791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11282791", "title": "Cryophorus", "text": "Cryophorus\n\nA cryophorus is a glass container containing liquid water and water vapor. It is used in physics courses to demonstrate rapid freezing by evaporation. A typical cryophorus has a bulb at one end connected to a tube of the same material. When the liquid water is manipulated into the bulbed end and the other end is submerged into a freezing mixture (such as liquid nitrogen), the gas pressure drops as it is cooled. The liquid water begins to evaporate, producing more water vapor. Evaporation causes the water to cool rapidly to its freezing point and it solidifies suddenly.\n\nWollaston's cryophorus was a precursor to the modern heat pipe.\n\nThe cryophorus was first described by William Hyde Wollaston in an 1813 paper titled, \"On a method of freezing at a distance.\"\n"}
{"id": "29617944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29617944", "title": "Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic, University of Cambridge", "text": "Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic, University of Cambridge\n\nThe Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic (ASNC or, informally, ASNaC) is one of the constituent departments of the University of Cambridge, and focuses on the history, material culture, languages and literatures of the various peoples who inhabited Britain, Ireland and the extended Scandinavian world in the early Middle Ages (5th century to 12th century). It is based on the second floor of the Faculty of English at 9 West Road. In Cambridge University jargon, its students are called \"ASNaCs\".\n\nIt remains the only university faculty or department in the world to focus entirely on the early Middle Ages.\n\nThe study of Anglo-Saxon England and its neighbouring regions has deep roots at Cambridge, beginning with the sixteenth-century Archbishop Matthew Parker. The first half of the seventeenth century saw Abraham Wheelocke hold a readership in Anglo-Saxon, and in 1657 John Spelman bestowed on William Somner the annual stipend of the Anglo-Saxon lecture founded by his father, Sir Henry Spelman, at Cambridge, enabling him to complete the first Old English dictionary. After a lull in interest in Old English, in the nineteenth century, John Mitchell Kemble developed the study of Old English and Anglo-Saxon archaeology at Trinity College, and Joseph Bosworth, another Anglo-Saxonist who was associated with Trinity, endowed the Elrington and Bosworth Chair in Anglo-Saxon, established in 1878, and first held by Walter William Skeat. Strengths at Cambridge in Old Norse were built up by Eiríkur Magnússon (1833–1913) and in Celtic studies by Edmund Crosby Quiggin (1875–1920).\n\nThe ASNaC Department as such has its origins in the work and ideas of Skeat's successor as Elrington and Bosworth Professor, Hector Munro Chadwick, of Clare College. Chadwick took a leading role in integrating the philological study of Old English with archaeology and history and, by bringing the study of Old English from the Faculty of English to Archaeology and Anthropology in 1928, founded what was to become the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic: 'Chadwick's aim ... was to keep Old English studies free from philology (as it was then practised), but also from the dominance of English Literature'. However, 'the alliance of Anglo-Saxon and archaeology suited the professor and not the students; and in the 1960s Professor Dorothy Whitelock led the Saxon flock back into the English fold'--specifically in 1967, though the Department of Archaeology and Anthropology continues to sustain strengths in Anglo-Saxon and early medieval archaeology, with relevant archaeology papers being available to ASNaCs. The Anglo-Saxon and Kindred Studies Tripos was introduced as a single-part (two-year) Tripos in 1957, the class list being published under the title 'Anglo-Saxon'; in 1971 this was relabelled 'Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic' under Peter Clemoes. In 1992, under the leadership of Michael Lapidge, ASNC became a two-part (three-year) Tripos. The Elrington and Bosworth Professor was customarily the head of the ASNaC Department, until a rotating headship system was introduced during the professorship of Simon Keynes in the early twenty-first century.\n\nThe name ASNC or ASNaC is pronounced //, and originally denoted members of the ASNC Society rather than of the Department. It was coined as a pun on an early poster for the ASNC Society Lunches: 'A Snack for ASNACs'. Students in the department were referred to in English as Asnackers, in French as Asnaciennes or Asnaques, and in German as Asnäckische. Later the simpler term 'Asnacs' came into common use.\n\nIn 2015 the department was the subject of the scholarly article collection \"H M Chadwick and the Study of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic in Cambridge\", edited by Michael Lapidge (CMCS Publications).\n\nIn the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise the department was rated as the top Celtic Studies department in the UK, and one of the top departments and faculties within the University of Cambridge, with 75% of its submitted research rated internationally excellent (3*) or world-leading (4*). Because of its strongly interdisciplinary nature, elements of the Department's research were considered by the panels for History, English and Classics as well as Celtic Studies.\n\nIn collaboration with King's College London, since 2005 the department has developed and organised the free-access Prosopography of Anglo-Saxon England.\n\nLanguage-study is central to ASNaC degree programmes, and the Department is a major training ground in these skills for researchers in early medieval history. The Department provides \"ab initio\" tuition in Old English, Old Norse, Old Irish, Middle Welsh, and Latin.\n\nDespite the Department's medieval focus, its pre-eminence as a UK centre of Scandinavian and Celtic studies has led both the Irish and Icelandic governments to provide grants for the teaching of Modern Irish and Icelandic (respectively) to members of Cambridge University.\n\nThe following table lists lecturers in the department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic and its forerunner institutions, up to the end of the second millennium CE.\n\nBetween 1900 and 1999, around 860 students studied in the Department or its precursor institutions. Between 1900 and 1946, 68% were women; thereafter there was a slight majority of men until 1980; and rough gender parity 1980-1999.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2012, between 50 and 60 applicants applied for the ASNC BA per year; about 53% were offered places; and about 43% (20-25 students) accepted their offers. The undergraduate student body is majority female (⅔ for the 2011 admissions cycle) and has a strong preponderance of state-school leavers (84% of home students for the 2011 admissions cycle).\n\nThe department has an affiliated student society, the ASNaC Society. It is recorded as hosting academic papers as early as 1971. According to Michael Lapidge, From the mid-1980s onward, the combined number of undergraduate nd graduate students reached (which might be described as) a critical mass, with the result that there was a very palpable surge in corporate spirit and concomitant pride in being an 'ASNaC', a member of a small but elite group of students distinguished throughout the University for its academic attainments. The Society organises a weekly 'ASNaC Lunch', field trips, punting expeditions, dinners, and ASNaC mugs and sweatshirts. The Society is also noted for producing the (mostly) twice yearly \"Gesta Asnacorum\", founded by Tom Shakespeare, which satirises the life of the Department and the medieval texts and modern scholarship it studies. Though the \"Gesta Asnacorum\" is merely a scurrilous student rag, it does feature the juvenilia of many alumni of the department who have gone on to become prominent historians.\n\nASNaCs have gone into many walks of life, but a significant proportion of academics in the fields of early medieval European literature and history, particularly in Celtic studies, have studied or taught at the department, making it a historically highly influential institution in its field. Academically prominent alumni of the department or its forerunner institutions who are not listed above as staff include:\n\n\nOther noted alumni include:\n\n\nMaria, the protagonist of Thomas Thurman's children's book \"Not Ordinarily Borrowable; or, Unwelcome Advice\", is an Asnac (there characterised as 'a person who studies the way people lived a long, long time ago, far longer ago than the time when Maria lived, and looks at the things they made and the writings they left behind').\n\n"}
{"id": "55136949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55136949", "title": "Eve Poole", "text": "Eve Poole\n\nEve Poole (born Eva Auerbach; 29 December 1924 – 26 December 1992) was a New Zealand politician who served as Mayor of Invercargill from 1983 until her death in 1992. She was the first and thus far only woman and Jewish person to hold this position.\n\nEve Poole was born Eva Auerbach in Frankfurt, Germany on 29 December 1924. Her family fled to Tel Aviv, Israel in 1932 after her father was brutally beaten in a Nazi street demonstration against Jews. From 1939 to 1945 she served in the British Eighth Army as a driver in the Auxiliary Territorial Service. It was during this time that she met her husband, Vernon Poole, who was a tank commander in the 20th Battalion of the 2nd New Zealand Division. They married in Israel, and after the war they settled down in Invercargill. Having trained at Habima Theatre in Israel, Poole went on to teach drama at Southland Girls' High School.\n\nPoole was elected to the Invercargill City Council in 1971 and became Deputy Mayor in 1974, being the first woman to hold either position in Invercargill. In 1980 she made her first challenge for Mayor but was unsuccessful, losing to the incumbent F. Russell Miller by 400 votes. In the 1982 Queen's Birthday Honours Poole was appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for public services.\n\nPoole returned to politics in 1983, making a second run for Mayor. She won 56.8 per cent of the vote, becoming the first woman mayor and first Jewish mayor of Invercargill. As Mayor, Poole was highly involved in the arts. Norman Jones, the National Party MP for Invercargill, described her as having brought nothing but \"culture and emotion\" to Southland. She was instrumental in the construction of the Invercargill Public Library, which was later named in her honour after her death in 1992. She served as President of the Southland Museum Trust Board, and as member of the Anderson Park Art Gallery Council and the Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council.\n\nPoole was admitted to Dunedin Hospital in late 1992 due to severe back pain. She developed an infection during the course of examination, and died peacefully on 26 December 1992, aged 67. She is buried at Invercargill's Eastern Cemetery, along with her husband who died on 27 April 2002.\n"}
{"id": "5475709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5475709", "title": "Field Training Officer", "text": "Field Training Officer\n\nA Field Training Officer (FTO) is an experienced or senior member of an organization who is responsible for the training and evaluation of a junior or probationary level member. The role is used extensively in law enforcement, fire departments, and emergency medical services.\n\nField training officers usually receive specialized classroom training and certification to meet state requirements (such as POST, TCLEOSE or EMT) before performing field training duties for the department they work for.\n\nA new trainee is usually only allowed to work with an FTO for a predetermined amount of time, or until the field training staff determines that they are ready to work on their own. Field training for police officers typically lasts 12 to 18 weeks, In some instances the trainee may work for a short amount of time prior to attending a formal training/certification program. During this time the FTO may complete part or the majority of the FTO program and then complete the remaining upon completion of the certification process.\n\nIt is also not unusual for a trainee to have multiple field training officers that they rotate around to. For instance, in some law enforcement agencies a trainee may spend several weeks on each shift or in each specialty area of a department, during which time they could have multiple FTOs.\n\nThe duties of the FTO involve being a role model, clearly communicating the expectations of training, teaching the trainee the policies of the department, correctly applying concepts learned in the classroom to field training operations, and evaluating the trainee on his or her progress in the program. Ultimately, the FTO is responsible for making sure shift duties are performed properly and completely.\n\nAddressing the concept of “burnout” in FTOs is a fairly recent development. Burnout can begin as loss of interest in a task or boredom. Eventually, if left untreated, burnout can result in loss of productivity, low morale, substance abuse, and mental illness.\n\nIt is not known whether burnout affects FTOs more than regular employees. Considering that an FTO not only performs his or her normal work tasks, but also the tasks of a trainer, it would stand to reason that FTOs would be particularly subject to the effect.\n\nMany agencies and profession-related articles have begun to formally address the effect.\n\nThe role of FTO is also common among large corporations who elect to develop their own trainers as opposed to hiring professional corporate trainers from outside the company.\n\nwww.rickwhitehead.com\n\n"}
{"id": "3205438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3205438", "title": "Gathering place", "text": "Gathering place\n\nA gathering place is any place where people are able to congregate. Gathering places may be public; for example, city streets, town squares, and parks; or private; for example, churches, coffee shops, stadiums, and theaters.\n\nExamples of gathering places include Stonehenge, the agora of ancient Greece, New York City's Central Park, and London's Trafalgar Square.\n\nThe Island of Oahu in Hawaii is often nicknamed (or translated as) \"The Gathering Place\". This makes sense because Oahu is the most populated Hawaiian Island. In ancient times, however, Oahu was not populous and was outranked by the status of other islands. The translation of \"gathering place\" was suggested as recently as 1922 by Hawaiian Almanac author Thomas Thrum. It has been speculated that Thrum ignored or misplaced the okina because the Hawaiian phrase \"o ahu\" could be translated as \"gathering of objects\" (\"o\" is a subject marker and \"ahu\" means \"to gather\"). The correct spelling — Oahu — has no confirmed translation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1798567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1798567", "title": "Genocide Intervention Network", "text": "Genocide Intervention Network\n\nThe Genocide Intervention Network (or GI-NET) was a non-profit organization aiming to \"empower individuals and communities with the tools to prevent and stop genocide\". Founded in 2004, in 2005 the Genocide Intervention Fund changed its name to Genocide Intervention Network, and in 2011, it merged with the Save Darfur Coalition to form a new organization, United to End Genocide.\n\nIn October 2004, two Swarthmore College students, Mark Hanis and Andrew Sniderman, established the Genocide Intervention Network in hopes of empowering citizens to protect civilians from the atrocities occurring in Darfur. GI-Net's mission and policy goals were greatly influenced by the \"Responsibility to Protect\" doctrine, drafted by the International Commission on Intervention and State Sovereignty, in order to create a permanent anti-genocide grassroots movement.\n\nIn 2011, GI-Net and the Save Darfur Coalition merged to establish United to End Genocide.\n\nMark Hanis, Andrew Sniderman, Sam Bell, Cara Angelotta, Susannah Gund, Janessa Calvo-Friedman, Rita Kamani, Elisabeth Jaquette and others wanted the genocide in Sudan to be treated as a security issue, not as a humanitarian disaster, and did so by directly supporting the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS), an underfunded peacekeeping force.\n\nGI-Net's controversial idea of supporting military force for foreign intervention attracted the attention of Gayle Smith, who had two decades of experience in Africa and had been the senior director of African Affairs in Clinton's National Security Council. Smith provided the first positive interest in GI-Net's work. Smith helped GI-Net raise over $300,000 to support AMIS.\n\nAfter several disagreements on how to organize the fundraising money, GI-Net, in collaboration with the African Union, funded the Africa Humanitarian Action to support patrols that would protect displaced women, who put themselves at risk of rape when they left the internally displaced persons camps to collect firewood in order to prepare food. The program was canceled due to a lack of additional support and financial resources.\n\nIn 2006, GI-Net looked for new methods to increase economic pressure on the Sudanese government. However, after the U.S. government had already maxed out the economic sanctions it could apply alone, GI-Net increased its involvement in the divestment campaign that had begun on Harvard's college campus in 2004.\n\nThe goal behind the divestment campaign was simple: to engage students to pressure their universities to withdraw investments providing revenue to Sudanese government. This financial support allowed the Sudanese government to expand on their military assets.\n\nBy April 2005, the student activism prompted college officials to change its investment policies. Harvard University declared that it would withdraw support in China National Petroleum Corporation, a business partner of the Sudanese government. Companies in the oil industry were the perfect target for divestment since oil is an essential source of revenue for the government, but is an industry that provides little benefit or relief to Sudanese civilians.\n\nBy September 2006, the divestment movement grew substantially and adopted larger goals. The group eventually became known as the Sudan Divestment Task Force, which drafted legislation to influence state legislatures around the United States to divest.\n\nFeeling pressured by the U.S.-based advocacy campaign, the Khartoum spent close to a million dollars on an eight-page spread in the New York Times encouraging companies to invest in Sudan, a country with \"peaceful, prosperous and democratic future\".\n\nAs the official Olympic torch made its way around the world prior to the beginning of the 2008 Summer Olympics, the Olympic Dream for Darfur team, a campaign to bring mass attention to the conflict in Darfur, began its own symbolic relay. The Dream for Darfur team had one and only goal: to convince China that the continuation of the Olympic Games in Beijing was at risk unless it withdrew support for Sudan's regime. Genocide survivors joined the relay led by Mia Farrow and traveled to Rwanda, Armenia, Germany, Bosnia, Herzegovina, and Cambodia.\n\nThis led to the formation of a U.S.-based relay in September 2007. Jill Savitt and Mia Farrow organized and led the event, supported by GI-Net, the Save Darfur Coalition, and the Enough Project.\n\nThe mission of the Dream for Darfur team was to break down the foreign policy information into digestible form, so that citizens, without the background to understand the complexities of the international policy-making process, could become involved in the anti-genocide campaign.\n\nThe Dream for Darfur team encouraged the major sponsors of the Olympic Games, such as McDonald's, Anheuser-Busch, Microsoft, and Volkswagen to privately meet with Chinese officials to raise concern over affairs in Darfur. Eventually, the team encouraged Steven Spielberg to resign as creative consultant for the opening ceremonies.\n\nIn 2005, the organization changed its name from Genocide Intervention Fund to its current name, Genocide Intervention Network. GI-Net was publicly re-launched on April 6, 2005. GI-Net immediately broadened its efforts by introducing a membership and chapter program in order to educate and mobilize support for U.S. policies that could assist victims in Darfur. In 2011, the Save Darfur Coalition and GI-Net merged to create United to End Genocide. The organization's president is Tom Andrews.\n\nGI-Net launched a program to build an engaged and permanent anti-genocide community. Named in honor of Carl Wilkens—the only American to remain in Rwanda during the genocide in 1994—the \"Wilkens Fellowship\" was a selective year-long program that exposed individuals to vital tools and resources in hopes of building permanent peaceful communities throughout the world.\n\nThe Wilkens Fellowship allowed hundreds of ordinary United States citizens to become anti-genocide leaders. The program terminated in 2012 due to financial constraints.\n\nFor more information about past fellowship recipients, visit: United to End Genocide\n\nShortly after President George W. Bush labeled the conflict in Darfur as \"genocide,\" a group of Georgetown University students created a campus community organization that focuses on genocide prevention. The program gained national recognition, and now colleges and universities across the United States host STAND chapters.\n\nSTAND emerged as a grassroots-based campaign that networks students who are committed to ending crimes against humanity around the world. Since its debut, STAND developed as a key component in the anti-genocide movement alongside its previous parent organizations: the Genocide Intervention Network, which merged into United to End Genocide. In 2012, STAND became an independent organization, entirely student-run.\n\nTwo college students co-founded the Sudan Divestment Task Force (SDTF) in 2005. The Task Force launched successful divestment campaigns around the world targeting university endowments, asset managers and city, state, and national investment policies. As a result of the Task Force efforts, twenty-two states, dozens of universities, eleven cities and fifteen countries adopted Sudan divestment policies. SDTF worked closely with Genocide Intervention Network, and in 2006 became part of GI-NET under the leadership of Adam Sterling, an original co-founder. The Sudan Divestment Task Force led to the enactment of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act (SADA) on December 31, 2007. This dynamic act has been the most forceful Sudan bill since the start of the genocide in Darfur.\n\nUniversities spanning the United States are taking active parts in the campaign. The University of California, Brown, Amherst, Princeton, the University of Vermont, and the University of Washington are only some of the several accredited institutions that encourage companies not to provide financial support to the Sudanese government. Instead, financial aid is given directly to the victims of the genocide.\n\nIn 2009, SDTF became the Conflict Risk Network (CRN). Drawing upon successes in corporate engagement and the lessons learned from the Sudan divestment movement, CRN calls on corporate actors to fulfill their responsibility to respect human rights and to take steps that support peace and stability in areas affected by genocide and mass atrocities.\n\n"}
{"id": "38369524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38369524", "title": "Geoffrey C. Fox", "text": "Geoffrey C. Fox\n\n\n"}
{"id": "201292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201292", "title": "George Pierce Baker", "text": "George Pierce Baker\n\nGeorge Pierce Baker (April 4, 1866 – January 6, 1935) was an American educator in the field of drama.\n\nBaker graduated in the Harvard University class of 1887, served as Editor-in-Chief of \"The Harvard Monthly\", and taught in the English Department at Harvard from 1888 until 1924. He started his \"47 workshop\" class in playwriting in 1905. He was instrumental in creating the Harvard Theatre Collection at Harvard University Library. In 1908 he began the Harvard Dramatic Club, acting as its sponsor, and in 1912 he founded Workshop 47 to provide a forum for the performance of plays developed within his English 47 class. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1914. Unable to persuade Harvard to offer a degree in playwriting, he moved to Yale University in 1925, where he helped found the Yale School of Drama. He remained there until his retirement in 1933.\n\nBaker was also selected to teach a seminar whose unconfirmed title was \"Shakespeare\" or \"the English drama\" at the Sorbonne University (Paris, France) in 1908.\n\nAmong those he taught in his playwriting class were Rachel Barton Butler, George Abbott, Philip Barry, S.N. Behrman, Hallie Flanagan, Hong Shen, Sidney Howard, Samuel Hume, Stanley McCandless, Eugene O'Neill, Edward Sheldon, Maurine Dallas Watkins, and Thomas Wolfe. His \"Dramatic Technique\" (1919) offered a codification in English of the principles of the well-made play.\n\nGeorge Pierce Baker was the father of George P. Baker who was dean of Harvard Business School.\n\n"}
{"id": "552887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=552887", "title": "Higher Education Authority", "text": "Higher Education Authority\n\nThe Higher Education Authority (HEA) is the statutory policy-advisory body for higher education in Ireland. This means that the HEA works in providing high-quality, evidence-based policy-advice to the Government across all aspects of the mission of higher education.\n\nAccording to their website, the aim of the HEA is \"to create a coherent system of diverse institutions with distinct missions, which is responsive to the social, cultural and economic development of Ireland and its people and supports the achievement of national objectives\". \n\nThe authority has a statutory responsibility, at central government level, for the effective governance and regulation of higher education institutions and the higher education system. The authority is responsible for the funding of Irish universities, institutes of technology and other third level colleges. \nThe Chief Executive is Dr. Graham Love. The Chairperson of the Authority is Michael Horgan.\n\n"}
{"id": "22762559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22762559", "title": "IEEE Education Society", "text": "IEEE Education Society\n\nThe IEEE Education Society (EdSoc) is a society of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), focused on the theory and practice of education and educational technology needed to deliver effectively domain knowledge in the fields of interest of IEEE.\n\nThe IEEE Education Society was formed on June 14, 1957 as the IRE Professional Group on Education. After several name changes, IEEE Professional Technical Group on Education (1963), IEEE Professional Group on Education (1965), and IEEE Education Group (1968), the Society became the IEEE Education Society on .\n\nThe IEEE Education Society publishes and co-publishes a range of publications within focus of its field of interest:\n\nThe IEEE Education Society sponsors and co-sponsors conferences annually, including the Frontiers in Education Conference.\n"}
{"id": "24324196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24324196", "title": "Independent Association of Prep Schools", "text": "Independent Association of Prep Schools\n\nThe Independent Association of Prep Schools (IAPS, formerly Independent Association of Preparatory Schools) is a schools association, representing around 670 preparatory schools.\n\nThe majority of IAPS' schools are in the UK, with other locations including Africa, the Middle East, Singapore, and the USA.\n\nIAPS is a part of the Independent Schools Council.\n\nIAPS was founded in 1892, as the Incorporated Association of Preparatory Schools.\n\nIn 1981 IAPS merged with the Association of Headmistresses of Preparatory Schools, and ten years later moved its headquarters from Kensington to its current offices in Leamington Spa.\n\nIn 2007 the Incorporated Association of Preparatory Schools changed its legal title to IAPS, and became known as the Independent Association of Preparatory Schools. In 2010, this was shortened to the current form.\n\nIAPS elects a chairman every three years, having changed from a one-year cycle in 2015. Vice-chairs continue to be elected annually.\n\nDavid Hanson has been chief executive of IAPS since 2008. In 2015, Mark Brotherton replaced Julie Robinson as Director of Education.\n\nMuch of the work of IAPS is directed by various committees, made up of current headteachers of member schools.\n\nIAPS' Council meets once a term, and the association holds an annual conference every September.\n\nIAPS commits itself to providing and promoting excellence in education. It provides its members with a national voice on matters of independent prep school education, and seeks to have a positive influence on public opinion of prep schools,\n\nMembers are provided with advice, information and support on educational and school management issues, and receive regular internal and external mailings via the organisation.\n\nSchools are encouraged to share their news stories with IAPS, many of which are featured in the association's partner magazine, \"Attain\".\n\nIAPS arranges a number of developmental courses for its members, as well as internationally-recognised sports events for its schools. The association also hosts a jobs website advertising vacancies in its member schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168592", "title": "Individual and group rights", "text": "Individual and group rights\n\nGroup rights, also known as collective rights, are rights held by a group \"qua\" group rather than by its members severally; in contrast, individual rights are rights held by individual people; even if they are group-differentiated, which most rights are, they remain individual rights if the right-holders are the individuals themselves. Group rights have historically been used both to infringe upon and to facilitate individual rights, and the concept remains controversial.\n\nBesides the rights of groups based upon the immutable characteristics of their individual members, other group rights cater toward organizational persons, including nation-states, trade unions, corporations, trade associations, chambers of commerce, political parties. Such organizations are accorded rights which are particular to their specifically-stated functions and their capacities to speak on behalf of their members, i.e. the capacity of the corporation to speak to the government on behalf of all individual customers or employees or the capacity of the trade union to negotiate for benefits with employers on behalf of all workers in a company.\n\nIn the political views of classical liberals and some right-libertarians, the role of the government is solely to identify, protect, and enforce the natural rights of the individual while attempting to assure just remedies for transgressions. Liberal governments that respect individual rights often provide for systemic controls that protect individual rights such as a system of due process in criminal justice. Proponents of this philosophy, such as Jordan Peterson, situate individual rights as in dialectical opposition to collective rights, suggesting that the two are mutually exclusive, and that philosophies and political theories that value collective rights do so at the expense of the individual and their rights. Peterson cites this sacrifice of the individual for the collective as reason to oppose left-wing ideologies, with particular reference to communism, alleging that \"group rights are catastrophic\". Critics of Peterson's reasoning suggest that his argument is based on a fallacious false-dichotomy that implies individual and group rights are mutually exclusive, separate and opposed; instead proposing that the two are inherently connected and require one another to ensure both are secured. Without certain collective rights, for example, a cardinal principle in international law, enshrined in Chapter I Article I of the United Nations Charter, secures the right of \"Self-determination of \"peoples\"\". Without this group right, the \"people\" have no means or authority to assert the individual rights that self-determination enables the establishment of. If \"people\" are unable to determine their collective future, they are certainly unable to assert or ensure their individual rights, future and freedoms. In contrast to individual-collective dichotomy proposed by Peterson and contemporaries, critics suggest that both are necessarily connected and intertwined, rejecting the assertion that they exist in a mutually exclusive relationship.\n\nAyn Rand, developer of the philosophy of Objectivism, asserted that a group, as such, has no rights. She maintained that only an individual can possess rights, and therefore the expression \"individual rights\" is a redundancy, while the expression \"collective rights\" is a contradiction in terms. In this view, a person can neither acquire new rights by joining a group nor lose the rights which he does possess. Man can be in a group without want or the group minority, without rights. According to this philosophy, individual rights are not subject to a public vote, a majority has no right to vote away the rights of a minority, the political function of rights is precisely to protect minorities from the will of majorities, and the smallest minority on earth is the individual. Rand offers several unique perspectives on rights, holding that 1. ontologically, rights are neither attributes nor conventions but principles of morality, having, therefore, the same epistemic status as any other moral principle; 2. rights \"define and sanction man's freedom of action,\"; 3. as protectors of freedom of action, rights do not mean \"entitlements\" to be supplied with any goods or services; 4. \"Man's rights can be violated only by the use of physical force. It is only by means of physical force that one man can deprive another of his life, or enslave him, or rob him, or prevent him from pursuing his own goals, or compel him to act against his own rational judgment.\" and 5. rights derive from the mind's needs: for an organism that survives by means of reason, freedom is a survival-requirement:initiated force negates or paralyzes the thinking mind. Rand's overall argument is that rights protect freedom in order to protect reason. \"Force and mind are opposites.\"\n\nAdam Smith, in 1776 in his book \"An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations\", describes the right of each successive generation, as a group, collectively, to the earth and all the earth possesses. The \"Declaration of Independence\" states several group, or collective, rights of the people as well as the states, for example the Right of the People: \"whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it\" and the right of the States: \"... as Free and Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may of right do.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49656968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49656968", "title": "InsideOUT Writers", "text": "InsideOUT Writers\n\nInsideOUT Writers (IOW) is a Los Angeles-based non-profit organization that conducts weekly writing classes inside Los Angeles County juvenile halls and jails. IOW also serves as a support network for formerly incarcerated young people. The program seeks to inspire personal growth and transformation through creative writing. Since 1996, more than 11,000 youth have participated in over 15,000 classes.\n\nDuring each class, students are given multiple writing prompts and are then asked to share their work and both receive and provide feedback from the writing circle. IOW also convenes annual writing retreats at juvenile detention facilities and publishes \"In Depth\", a literary journal of students and alumni writings. The classes are taught by writers, poets, screenwriters, journalists, educators and other volunteers. Notable teachers have included Scott Budnick, Bruce Lisker and Mark Salzman. The organization is funded both by the county and private donors.\n\nInsideOUT Writers was founded in 1996 by Sister Janet Harris, PBVM, who was serving as the Catholic chaplain at Central Juvenile Hall. While speaking to the young inmates about what they were going through, she found them frustrated, hopeless, afraid, and wondered: \"What outlets could she provide for them to process those feelings?\" Sister Janet decided to start a writing experience at Central Juvenile Hall. She recruited then-\"Los Angeles Times\" writer Duane Noriyuki to come and teach a writing class. In 1996, Noriyuki wrote a piece for the \"Los Angeles Times\" about Harris's ministry entitled \"Sister of Mercy\".\n\nShortly after the beginning of the program, Mario Rocha, who was on trial for murder, met Sister Harris when he was selected for the writing program. Harris was struck by his demeanor and was impressed with his writing skills. Ultimately, she became convinced of his innocence, even though he was convicted of murder, and she began her own investigation. After Harris found new witnesses and persuaded the law firm of Latham Watkins to take on the case for free, Rocha was exonerated.\n\nSeveral notable figures have participated in IOW. In 2003, Scott Budnick began volunteering as an InsideOUT teacher at the Barry J. Nidorf Juvenile Hall in Sylmar, California. As of 2014, Budnick still volunteers at the Nidorf Juvenile Hall. After this experience and others, Budnick began to tell administrators and politicians about the problems he was seeing in the juvenile justice and criminal justice systems, and founded the Anti-Recidivism Coalition. Bruce Lisker, who was wrongfully convicted of murdering his mother, has taught with IOW. Mark Salzman taught for IOW at Central, and wrote a book about his experience. Christina McDowell, author of \"After Perfect\", teaches with IOW.\n\nIn 2011, IOW teamed with the Los Angeles Opera to perform stories written by incarcerated youths at Central.\n\nIn 2010, InsideOUT formalized an Alumni Program. When students get out of detention, InsideOUT provides case management, life skills training, continued creative writing classes, and mentoring, to build on what happens inside. During weekly writing circles, former incarcerated students reflect on their time on the inside and since.\n\nSeveral InsideOUT alums have written about their experience with the program. IOW alums have also advocated for juvenile and criminal justice reforms. Jimmy Wu, a former student of Harris and Salzman, was the first IOW alumnus of to be hired by IOW.\n\nScott Budnick mentored Prophet Walker through IOW while Walker was incarcerated. Upon Walker's release from prison, Walker founded the Anti-Recidivism Coalition with Budnick and ran to be Assemblyman for California's 64th District. In 2015, Walker was a guest of Michelle Obama at the State of the Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "26458375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26458375", "title": "James Long (Anglican priest)", "text": "James Long (Anglican priest)\n\nJames Long (1814–1887) was an Anglo-Irish priest of the Anglican Church. A humanist, educator, evangelist, translator, essayist, philanthropist and a missionary to India, he resided in the city of Calcutta, India, from 1840 to 1872 as a member of the Church Missionary Society, leading the mission at Thakurpukur.\n\nLong was closely associated with the Calcutta School-Book Society, the Bethune Society, the Bengal Social Science Association and The Asiatic Society. He also published the English translation of the play \"Nil Darpan\" by Dinabandhu Mitra, an act for which he was subsequently prosecuted for libel, fined, and briefly jailed.\n\nJames Long was born in Bandon, County Cork, Ireland in 1814, when Ireland was still a part of the United Kingdom, to John Long and his wife Anne. At the age of twelve he was enrolled at the newly opened Bandon Endowed School, where he learnt \"Hebrew, Greek, Latin, French and English languages; Euclid, Algebra, Logic; Arithmetic, Book-keeping, Reading, Writing, History and Geography\". He proved an excellent student, distinguishing himself especially in theology and the classics.\n\nLong's application to join the Church Missionary Society was accepted in 1838 and he was sent to the Church Missionary Society College, Islington. Following two years's training at Islington the Reverend Long was sent to Calcutta to join the CMS mission there. He arrived in Calcutta in 1840, briefly returning to England in 1848 to marry Emily Orme, daughter of William Orme.\n\nFrom 1840 to 1848, Long taught at the school for non-Christian students run by the CMS at its premises located on Amherst Street. Returning to India a married man in 1848, he was placed in charge of the CMS mission in Thakurpukur, at the time a hamlet a day’s journey out of Calcutta in the Bengal Presidency. By 1851, Long had set up a vernacular school for boys in Thakurpukur, while his wife Emily ran a corresponding school for girls. In an 1854 letter to F. J. Halliday of the Council of Education, he boasts a roll-call of \"about 100 boys, Hindu, Mussulman, and Christians.\" His work \"Bengali Proverbs\" (1851) has been called a significant addition to Bengali literature. He studied Bengali proverbs and folk literature for another two decades, publishing \"A Catalogue of Bengali Newspapers and Periodicals from 1818 to 1855\" (1855), and the \"Descriptive Catalogue of Vernacular Books and Pamphlets\" which was forwarded by the Government of India to the Paris Exposition of 1867 .\n\nIn 1861, at the height of the Indigo revolt by the ryots in Bengal, Long received a copy of the Bengali play \"Nil Darpan\" (also transcribed as \"Neel Darpan\" or \"Nil Durpan\") from its author Dinabandhu Mitra, who had been one of Long's students at the CMS school on Amherst Street. The play, published anonymously the previous year in Dacca, was sympathetic to the abject condition of the ryots or labourers on indigo plantations and critical of the British land-holding class who kept the ryots in slave-like conditions. Long brought it to the notice of Walter Scott Seton-Karr, Secretary to the Governor of Bengal and ex-President of the Indigo Commission. Seton-Karr, sensing its importance, mentioned \"Nil Durpan\" in conversation with the Lieutenant Governor, John Peter Grant. Grant then expressed a wish to see a translation of it and print a few copies to be circulated privately amongst friends. Long had it anonymously translated into English \"By A Native\" (Long refused to divulge the name of the translator to the trial court; Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay later attributed the translation to Michael Madhusudan Dutt, although this attribution remains contentious) and printed in either April or May 1861. In his introduction to the play, he wrote that \"[i]t is the earnest wish of the writer of these lines that harmony may be speedily established between the Planter and the Ryot...\" Long sent the translated manuscript to Clement Henry Manuel, the proprietor of the Calcutta Printing and Publishing Press, to print five hundred copies at the cost of some three hundred rupees. Unknown to the Lieutenant Governor, Long began sending out copies in official Government envelopes to prominent Europeans both in India and abroad that had the heading: \"on her Majesty’s Service.\"\n\nThe circulation of the play \"generated hostility from indigo planters, who brought a lawsuit against Long on the charges that the preface of the play slandered the editors of the two pro-plantation newspapers, the \"Englishman\" and the \"Bengal Hurkaru\", and that the text of the drama brought the planters a bad name.\" As soon as the planters noticed the circulation of the play, W. F. Fergusson, the Secretary of the Landholders' and Commercial Association, wrote to the Governor of Bengal. He inquired as to which parties had sanctioned the play and whether the authority of the Bengal Government had given permission to publish it. He also threatened those who had circulated \"foul and malicious libel on indigo planting, evoking sedition and breaches of the peace\". He wrote that they must be prosecuted \"with an utmost rigour of the law\". The Lieutenant Governor replied that some officials had caused the offence; the planters, unsatisfied with the answer, decided to institute legal proceedings with a view to ascertain the authors and publishers of the \"Nil Durpan\". The words mentioned in Long’s Introduction to the play stated that what was presented in it was \"plain but true\"; this was subsequently used by the planters in their prosecution of Long for publishing defamatory statements. C. H. Manuel, whose name was mentioned as printer of \"Nil Durpan\", was indicted in the Calcutta Supreme Court on 11 June 1861. He pleaded guilty, and his counsel (acting on Long’s advice) named Long as his employer in the matter of publishing.\n\nLong's trial lasted from 19 to 24 July 1861, at the Calcutta Supreme Court. Mr. Peterson and Mr. Cowie prosecuted, Mr. Eglinton and Mr. Newmarch appeared on behalf of the defendant, and Sir M.L. Wells presided as judge. Wells found Long guilty of libel, fined him one thousand rupees and sentenced him to one month’s imprisonment, which he served in the period of July–August 1861. Kaliprasanna Singha paid the fine of Long's behalf.\n\nFollowing three years of home leave following the indigo controversy, Rev. and Mrs Long returned to Calcutta. Mrs Long died of amoebic dysentery while on a voyage back to England in February 1867. After her death, Long shared a house in Calcutta with the Rev. Krishna Mohan Banerjee, a longtime friend and associate who had lost his wife the same year. Together the two men hosted joint Indo-British soirees—rare events in those segregated times—and generally sought to foster a rapprochement between the British colonizers and the natives. Guests included Bishop Cotton and Keshub Chunder Sen among others.\n\nAs Long continued his educational work, he developed a keen interest in Russia, which he visited for the first time in 1863, and twice after his retirement in 1872. In his paper entitled \"Russia, Central Asia, and British India\" published in London in 1865, he wrote of his optimism about the prospects of serf emancipation, and against the current attitude of paranoia towards Russia about the valuable role of the Russian government and of the Orthodox Church in propagating Christianity in central Asia to serve as a bulwark against Islam.\n\nIn 1872, Reverend James Long retired from the Church Missionary Society and left India for good. He lived for the rest of his life in London, where he continued to write and publish until his death on 23 March 1887. Long set up a posthumous endowment called the \"Long Lectureship in Oriental Religions\" in 1885, for the appointment of one or more lecturers annually to deliver lectures at certain centres of education in Britain.\n\nRev. Long lends his name to James Long Sarani, a major thoroughfare running through Thakurpukur.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52979046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52979046", "title": "Januarius Jingwa Asongu", "text": "Januarius Jingwa Asongu\n\nJanuarius Jingwa (JJ) Asongu is an American philosopher, scholar, journalist, author, entrepreneur, and activist. Born in the small city of Lewoh, in the former British Southern Cameroons, Africa, he moved to the United States in the mid-1990s, where he is now a naturalized citizen.\n\nIn the United States, he continued as a human rights and political activist, while also engaged in academics. His academic career culminated in his becoming a professor of business and in 2012 he founded an American-style international university in Cameroon called Saint Monica University (SMU). With headquarters in the United States, SMU now has campuses in the Cameroons and upcoming campuses in Cambodia, Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria.\n\nJanuarius Asongu was born into a middle-class family in West Cameroon (former British Cameroons) in 1970 as the first of seven children (four female and three male). His parents, Nicholas Jingwa and Monique Nkengbeza, were devout Catholic Christians. He became a leader of the Young Christian Students (YCS) in Kumbo Diocese, while in secondary and high school.\n\nAsongu went to secondary and high school at Government High School Kumbo (now Government Bilingual High School Kumbo) from 1982–89. He then began his priestly formation at Bishop Rogan College, Soppo, Buea. His university education began at St. Thomas Aquinas Major Seminary, Bambui, an affiliated institute of the Pontifical Urbanian University, Rome, where he earned a Bachelor of Philosophy degree. After leaving the seminary, he embarked on an academic career abroad in the tradition of his mentor, the late Professor Bernard Fonlon, also an ex-seminarian and the first person from the Cameroons to earn a PhD. Asonge earned a certificate in journalism from the University of Lagos, Nigeria S(1995) and then a PhD in Journalism in 1998 in the United States . He was the first person from the Cameroons to be awarded the Press Fellowship at Wolfson College, University of Cambridge by the Nuffield Foundation in the United Kingdom. In 2012, he earned a Master of Science degree in Management of Information Technology from the University of Maryland University College, and also a PhD in Business Administration from Charisma University, British Overseas Territories (2011).\n\nAsongu's first job was that of a teacher of English Literature, History, and Commerce at Bishop Rogan College, Buea (1989/90). In 1993/94, he worked as a seminarian on internship at St. John's Catholic Parish, Kumba, and St. Luke's Parish, Nyandong. After his journalism training, he worked as a reporter in the Cameroons, where he wrote for various newspapers and co-hosted Catholic programs on CRTV. His writings brought him into conflict with the administration and in 1997 he left the country for the United States. His first occupation in the US was journalism, where he worked at The Houston Chronicle as an Alfred Friendly Press Fellow. He was the first from the Cameroons to earn this fellowship from the Alfred Friendly Foundation He was awarded the Press Fellowship at Wolfson College, Cambridge. Upon his return to the US from the UK, he worked as reporter and editor for various newspapers and magazines and taught briefly at several high schools. In 1999, he transitioned into public relations where he worked for various agencies and international companies. Asongu has taught at a number of universities in the United States including Rockford University, Rockford, IL; Herzing University, Milwaukee, WI; Fort Hays State University, Hays, KS; Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Rockford Campus; Franklin University, Columbus, OH. He has also started a number of small businesses in the United States and the Cameroons.\n\nAsongu has spoken on controversial issues on many radio and TV stations in the Cameroons, and has written op-eds for American newspapers. He conducted a detailed study of the Anglophone problem (Cameroon), and wrote a thesis in 1993 on \"The Problem of National Unity in Cameroon: A Politico-Philosophical Analysis.\" He was also a champion of Southern Cameroons independence for years before resigning from the leadership of the struggle in 2006. He has written on corporate social responsibility including \"Innovation as an Argument for Corporate Social Responsibility, \" and \"Strategic Corporate Social Responsibility in Practice.\n\nAsongu founded Saint Monica University (SMU), first as Professional Training Center (PTC), in 2009. PTC is now called Saint Monica Vocational Training Center and is located in Buea. In 2012, he incorporated SMU in the United States, but most of SMU's operations are in the Cameroons, where it operates ground campuses in the college-town of Buea (Saint Monica University Institute) as well as the commercial hub of Kumba (Institute of Professional Studies).\n\nHe has served on the boards of the National Association of African-American Studies (NAAAS) and Affiliates, and the Environment and Rural Development Foundation (ERUDEF).\n\n"}
{"id": "15357181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15357181", "title": "John Maclean Jr.", "text": "John Maclean Jr.\n\nJohn Maclean Jr., D.D. (March 3, 1800 – August 10, 1886) was an American Presbyterian clergyman and educator who served as the tenth President of Princeton University, then known as the College of New Jersey. Maclean, the son of the first professor of chemistry at the College of New Jersey, grew up in Princeton, New Jersey. He attended the College and later Princeton Theological Seminary. At age 23, he became full professor of mathematics at the university. Six years later, he became university vice president. He was responsible for bringing a number of renown scholars and academics to the college. During this time, he also left mathematics and became professor of ancient languages. Maclean was one of the chief architects of the state's public education system. His plan for a state normal school, local boards of education and nonsectarian public schools was adopted by the state legislature. He became president of the College of New Jersey in 1854. He led the university through the 1855 burning of Nassau Hall and the American Civil War. After retiring from his post after 14 years in office, he wrote a two-volume history of the university. He served as the honorary president of the university's Alumni Association until his death.\n\nMaclean Jr. was born in Princeton, New Jersey, as the son of John Maclean Sr., the first professor of chemistry at the College of New Jersey. He attended the College of New Jersey and graduated in 1816 as the youngest member of his class. He then spent the next two years earning his Doctor of Divinity degree from the Princeton Theological Seminary. Afterwards, he went back to the university and began as a tutor in Greek. He became a full professor of mathematics at age 23. In 1824, he helped to create the Chi Phi Society, a semi-religious, semi-literary organization, which ceased activity the following year when it merged with the Philadelphian Society.\n\nIn the late 1820s, Maclean devised a plan to enlarge and improve the faculty, in hopes of reversing the declining enrollment which had beleaguered the university over the last few years, to the point that university president James Carnahan considered shutting down the institution. Maclean's plan was accepted by the university's trustees in 1829, and he was subsequently named vice president. During his 25 years at that position, Maclean brought in a number of noted scholars to the institution, such as Joseph Henry, Arnold Henry Guyot, John Torrey, Stephen Alexander and Albert B. Dod. Maclean also shifted his professorship from mathematics to ancient languages until 1854, when he succeeded James Carnahan as the tenth president of the university.\n\nDuring his 14-year tenure as president, Maclean led the university through some difficult times. In 1855, after Nassau Hall burned down, he sought the financial support of alumni and beneficiaries to contribute funds for rebuilding. He operated the college on a limited budget for five years and gave up part of his own salary to help rebuild the hall. The university lost a number of students who joined the Union and Confederate armies during the Civil War. Maclean kept the faculty together and managed a complete educational program for the students still attending the university. During the war Maclean, as voted by the board of trustees, conveyed an honorary Doctor of Laws degree to President Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln accepted, and wrote to Maclean that \"[t]he assurance conveyed by this high compliment that the course of the government which I represent has received the approval of a body of gentlemen of such character and intelligence in this time of public trial is most grateful to me.\"\n\nAs president, Maclean witnessed the start of baseball at Princeton, heard the first rendition of the university alma mater, \"Old Nassau\", and voted to make orange among the university's official colors.\n\nIn 1828, Maclean gave an address, advocating for a public education system in New Jersey. He drew up a plan for a state normal school, local boards of education, and nonsectarian public schools. On the subject of religion and public education, Maclean stated:\nThe state legislature soon afterwards adopted his public education plan. Maclean also took interest in local churches. He served as a counselor, benefactor and organizer of the Witherspoon Street Presbyterian Church and the Second Presbyterian Church, which became known as \"Doctor Maclean's Church\". Maclean also was involved with the state's prisons. As a member of the New Jersey Prison Association, he conducted weekly services at the state penitentiary in Trenton.\n\nAfter retiring from the university, Maclean's friends bought him a house, where he lived during the remainder of his life. In 1877, he wrote a two-volume history of the university entitled \"History of the College of New Jersey: From Its Origin in 1746 to the Commencement of 1854\". He served as honorary president of the university's Alumni Association and attended an alumni commencement meeting in 1886, just six weeks before his death.\n\nMaclean was honored with the naming of university's Maclean House, which has served as the office of the Alumni Council since 1968.\n\n"}
{"id": "9463623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9463623", "title": "Kaliakra (ship)", "text": "Kaliakra (ship)\n\nThe Sail Training Vessel \"Kaliakra (Known also as STV \"Kaliakra, ) is a barquentine, built in 1984 at the Gdańsk Shipyard, after the plans of the Polish technical designer Zygmunt Choreń. She is a property of Bulgarian Maritime Training Centre and is operated by Navigation Maritime Bulgare, Bulgaria. The ship's home port is Varna, Bulgaria.\n\nThe general perception is that \"Kaliakra\" is a reproduction of a ship of the same name from the time before World War I. In fact, she is one of three modern sister ships designed for training, the other two being STS \"Pogoria\" and ORP \"Iskra\". Now she is used for training the Naval Cadets from Nikola Vaptsarov Naval Academy in Varna, Bulgaria.\n\nThe ship is one of the fastest tall ships in the world. She has participated on relatively regular basis in the Cutty Sark Tall Ships regatta, organized by the Sail Training International (STI) Association. During the Columbus Race in 1992, dedicated to the 500 years jubilee of the discovery of America, \"Kaliakra\" sailed the Atlantic Ocean twice and finished third out of 143 ships.\n\nOnboard \"Kaliakra\" have been King Juan Carlos of Spain, Crown Prince Haakon of Norway and many other distinguished personalities.\n\nSail Training journeys are performed, as well as tourist cruises.\n\nIn 1996 a coin of 1000 leva denomination that featured the ship on its tail was issued.\n\nThe hull and the superstructure are made of steel; the masts are partly made of steel and partly of fabric.\n\nArea of main sails: 816 m<br>\nArea of square sails: 264 m<br>\nTotal area of the sails: 1080 m<br>\nMain and foremast height: 30.6 m<br>\nMizzen-mast: 26.6 m<br>\nFresh water capacity: 36 t metric<br>\nDiesel capacity: 27 t metric<br>\nAccommodation: 4 cabins with 2 hammocks each, 1 cabin with 6 hammocks, 1 cabin with 9 hammocks and 1 cabin with 11 hammocks for trainees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49536464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49536464", "title": "Kannu (learning management system)", "text": "Kannu (learning management system)\n\nKannu is a learning management system, purpose-built for creative education in music, arts, and design. It was released by California-based company Kadenze in 2014 after the success of its MOOC platform, which Kannu is modeled after.\n\nKadenze first released Kannu in November of 2014. Some early adopters of the customized platform were California Institute of the Arts, Otis College of Art and Design, Rhode Island School of Design, Goldsmiths College, and Stanford University. After rounds of user testing and improvement it officially launched in 2015.\n\nKannu offers the usual features included in an LMS, such as course authoring, gradebooks, and attendance sheets. Some of its special features include modular course materials and custom branding, as well as forums for students. Per its origin as an arts LMS, it has a submission gallery, robust media embedding, and a portfolio system for students to share work publicly.\n\nKannu is a software as a service, i.e. cloud-based and scalable, rather than installed on a local network. As a newer product, it adheres to most modern web standards and practices, making it responsive to both computers and mobile devices.\n"}
{"id": "32580710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32580710", "title": "Kulturdenkmal", "text": "Kulturdenkmal\n\nKulturdenkmal is the official term to describe National Heritage Sites listed by law in German-speaking areas of Europe, to protect and spread awareness of cultural heritage.\n\nIn Austria, the Bundesdenkmalamt (BDA), the institution in charge of the National Heritage Sites, administers the list of Kulturdenkmal objects, which it formally refers to as Denkmalgeschützte Objekte.\n\nThe Institut du Patrimoine is the institution in charge of the National Heritage Sites of Wallonia, which includes the National Heritage Sites of the German-speaking Community of Belgium. Various local websites with public information are maintained, and various initiatives are undertaken to assist owners of protected properties and to increase public awareness, most notably the European Heritage Days, which are called \"Tage des offenen Denkmals\".\n\nAs cultural matters lie largely within the responsibility not of the national government, but of the 16 states (Bundesländer), the 16 respective heritage protection authorities (Landesdenkmalämter) survey and list official monuments.\n\nThe Kulturgüterschutz is the institution in charge of the National Heritage Sites of the German-speaking areas of Switzerland. They maintain the inventory of protected objects and also organize the European Heritage Days, which are called \"Europäischer Tag des Denkmals\".\n"}
{"id": "37088511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37088511", "title": "Lebanese British Friends of the National Museum", "text": "Lebanese British Friends of the National Museum\n\nThe Lebanese British Friends of the National Museum or LBFNM is a private, cultural heritage organization that was founded in London in 1993 with the aim of supporting the National Museum of Beirut.\n\nThe organization has assisted with the renovation of the Museum laboratory and improving connections with the British Museum. The LBFNM has also assisted with their exhibitions, the museum catalog and published various books on various historical and archaeological topics. It also publishes a journal entitled \"Archaeology and History in Lebanon\" (). The organization also organizes an annual symposia, hosting a reception after the symposium of 2008 at the Bristol Hotel in Beirut with guests including Tammam Salam, Inas Saleh and Semaan Bassil.\n\n"}
{"id": "56483920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56483920", "title": "List of libraries in Azerbaijan", "text": "List of libraries in Azerbaijan\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Azerbaijan. \n\n\nList of museums in Azerbaijan\n"}
{"id": "322784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322784", "title": "List of universities in Chile", "text": "List of universities in Chile\n\nThis is a list of universities and other higher education institutions in Chile.\n\nUniversities founded before 1981, or which can be traced before that year, are known as Traditional Universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23215202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23215202", "title": "MPT8080", "text": "MPT8080\n\nThe MPT8080 \"Microtutor\" is a microprocessor trainer based on the Intel 8080 processor, developed by Limrose Electronics. It was designed in the mid-1970s to assist in the understanding of the then-new microprocessors.\n\nUsers of the MPT8080 enter assembly language programs via binary switches or a hexadecimal keypad. While the code executes, the user can observe what is happening on the address, data, and control signals of the microprocessor. The MPT8080 acts like a simulator, in that code can be stepped through one instruction—or each cycle of each individual instruction—at a time to observe what is happening.\n\nThe MPT8080 has simple input and output, consisting of eight LEDs and eight switches. The input port allows code to sense the state of external switches, whilst the output port can display information on one of its eight LEDs. The input and outputs port also have connectors, allowing them to be connected to external signals through accessory patch kits, allowing the MPT8080 to control and monitor other circuitry.\n\nInitially, a Motorola 6800-based trainer was developed alongside the Intel 8080–based model, but due to technical and operational issues the 6800 trainer was abandoned.\n\nAs recently as 2012, the MPT8080 remained in academic use at King's College London, as part of a course in practical physics.\n\nThe initial version of the MPT8080 was designed by Dr. Ravi Raizada, the chief executive officer of Limrose Electronics. It was first marketed in 1977.\n\nDetails of version 1 of the microtutor are included in the book : Small Systems Computer Sourcebook, author: J C Boonham\n\nThis version used eight binary switches and a load button for program entry.\n\nThe second version of the MPT8080, introduced around 1980, replaced the binary switch input with a 16-key hexadecimal keypad. Although more than half of the trainer's circuitry was redesigned for this version, it remained compatible with the first version. A trace mode was added to allow single-cycle execution as well as machine cycles; this allowed the user to quickly step through code until reaching the portion of the program in which the user was interested. Latest UK price £495+vat (source: Limrose U.K.Price List 1st Sept 2010).\n\nPrograms are entered in the MPT8080 in data entry mode (\"MMLE\"). Each byte of the program is entered, either by toggling the binary switches and pressing the load button, or by entering the byte on the hexadecimal keypad. The program can then be executed.\n\nThe program can control the eight output port lines, turning the associated LEDs on or off.\n\nBy selecting single-step and single-cycle mode and stepping through a program with the step button, the user can see exactly what happens during every instruction cycle, observing the program counter, data bus and control signals on their corresponding LEDs.\n\nBy selecting single-instruction mode, rather than single-cycle mode, each press of the step button will execute a complete instruction, rather than a single cycle. This is useful for quickly advancing to a specific address.\n\nThe input/output ports can be used to read external signals and drive output devices like motors and buzzers with little or no additional hardware.\n\nThe system is programmed directly in 8080 machine code:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31381173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31381173", "title": "Mary Swartz Rose", "text": "Mary Swartz Rose\n\nMary Swartz Rose (October 31, 1874 – February 1, 1941) was an American laboratory scientist and educator in the fields of nutrition and dietetics.\n\nRose graduated from high school in 1892, valedictorian of her class. She graduated from Denison University in 1901, in Liberal Arts. In 1906 she received a B.S. in Household Arts from Teachers College, Columbia University. She then went to Yale University, where she received her PhD (studying under Lafayette Mendel) in Physiological Chemistry in 1909.\n\nAfter her graduation from Yale, Rose began a career at Columbia University Teachers College that lasted the rest of her life. Rose and Henry Sherman created the nation's first program in nutrition there. From 1910 to 1923 she was named Professor of Household Arts. From 1923 onward, she was Professor of Nutrition. Rose was famous both as an educator and as a laboratory scientist, as the titles of her works show. She was a prolific author, and wrote both scientific and technical works and pamphlets designed to educate ordinary citizens in the consequences of scientific advances on food selection, preparation, and nutritional planning. Rose worked associated with Herbert Hoover during the years of World War I, produced scientific recipes and balanced menus for the military, and played a part in the development of Army rations.\n\nRose was a founder of and the fifth President and first woman President of the American Institute of Nutrition; on the Council on Foods and Nutrition of the AMA; and on the Nutrition Commission of the health organization of the League of Nations. The Greater New York Dietetic Association named an annual lectureship in her honor. The American Dietetic Association named a fellowship in her honor. The American Society for Nutrition and the Council for Responsible Nutrition present two awards in her name for research on safety and efficacy of bioactive compounds for human health. Columbia University Teachers College named a professorship in her honor.\n\nRose was born in Newark, Ohio, the first of five children of Hiram Schwartz and Martha Jane Davies. In 1910 she married Anton Rose, another chemist she had met at Yale. Anton Rose subsequently received his PhD in Chemistry at Columbia University and ultimately worked for the Prudential insurance company. They had one son in 1915. Rose died of cancer and was buried in Granville, Ohio. One of Rose's hobbies was to make crossword puzzles based on amino acids.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41572983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41572983", "title": "Mathematics Admissions Test", "text": "Mathematics Admissions Test\n\nThe Mathematics Admissions Test (MAT) is a 2-hour 30-minute subject-specific admissions test for applicants to the University of Oxford and, as of 2013, Imperial College London for undergraduate degree courses in Mathematics, Computer Science and their joint degrees. It is set with the aim of being approachable by all students, including those without Further Mathematics A Level. \n\nThe MAT is held pre-interview stage at the beginning of November. Test results are not published automatically, but for the University of Oxford, candidates may request their test score as part of the usual University of Oxford feedback process. \n"}
{"id": "1241910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1241910", "title": "Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China\n\nThe Ministry of Education (MOE) of the People's Republic of China is the agency of the State Council of the People's Republic of China that regulates all aspects of the educational system in mainland China, including compulsory basic education, vocational education, and tertiary education. The MOE certifies teachers, standardizes curriculum and textbooks, establishes standards, and monitors the entire education system in an effort to \"modernize China through education\". It is headquartered in Xidan, Xicheng District, Beijing. The MOE stresses technical education over other subjects.\n\nThe MOE was established in 1949 as the Ministry of Education of the Central People's Government, and was renamed the State Education Commission of the People's Republic of China from 1985 to 1998. Its current title was assigned during the restructuring of the State Council in 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5140957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5140957", "title": "New York State United Teachers", "text": "New York State United Teachers\n\nNew York State United Teachers (NYSUT) is a 600,000-member New York state teachers union, affiliated since 2006 with the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), the AFL-CIO, and the National Education Association (NEA). NYSUT is an umbrella group which provides services to local affiliates in New York state; lobbies on the local, state and federal level; conducts research; and organizes new members.\n\nNYSUT's membership is diverse, representing all five membership categories of the AFT: preK through 12th grade teachers and paraprofessionals in the public and private sector; higher education faculty and paraprofessionals; public employees; private sector libraries; and nurses and other healthcare workers in the public and private sector.\n\nThere are more than 900 local affiliates of NYSUT, which range in size from locals of fewer than 10 members to the 140,000-member United Federation of Teachers (UFT) in New York City.\n\nOfficers of NYSUT are elected annually by a Representative Assembly (RA). The RA also elects a board of directors, which determines policy between conventions.\n\nAccording to NYSUT's Department of Labor records, about 33%, or a third, of the union's total membership are considered retirees, with eligibility to vote in the union. Other, voting ineligible, classifications include \"special constituency\" (2%) and \"at-large\" (1%). NYSUT contracts also cover some non-members, known as agency fee payers, which number comparatively about 4% of the size of the union's membership. This accounts for 203,427 \"retiree,\" 12,663 \"special constituency,\" and 7,731 \"at-large\" members, plus 23,365 non-members paying agency fees, compared to 388,476 \"in-service\" members.\n\nIn 1960, New York City social studies teacher Albert Shanker and Teachers Guild president Charles Cogen led New York City teachers out on strike. At the time, there were more than 106 teacher unions in the New York City public schools, many existing solely on paper, while others, like the Brooklyn Teachers Association, were real unions.\n\nThe motives behind the strike were wages, establishment of a grievance process, reduced workloads and more funding for public education. However to win on these issues, Shanker and Cogen argued, the city's teachers had to be in one union. In early 1960 the Teachers Guild merged with a splinter group from the more militant High School Teachers Association to form the United Federation of Teachers (UFT).\n\nThe UFT struck on November 7, 1960. More than 5,600 teachers walked the picket line, while another 2,000 engaged in a sick-out. It was a fraction of the city's 45,000 teachers. However, intervention by national, state and local AFL-CIO leaders pressured New York City mayor Robert Wagner to appoint a pro-labor fact-finding committee to investigate conditions in the city's schools and recommend a solution to the labor problem.\n\nThe fact-finding committee recommended a collective bargaining law, which eventually was forced onto the city's Board of Education by the state of New York. Despite a battle royale with the National Education Association (NEA), an infusion of cash by the AFT and the AFL-CIO enabled the UFT to win the December 16, 1961, election with 61.8 percent of the votes.\n\nIn 1967, the New York state legislature passed the Taylor Law, which provided collective bargaining rights to public employees. Both the NEA and AFT began rapidly organizing new members.\n\nThe NEA's state operation, the New York State Teachers Association (NYSTA), had been dominated by administrators until 1965, when they were excluded from membership.\n\nThe AFT's state affiliate, the Empire State Federation of Teachers, was very small. Shanker urged changes on the AFT state affiliate. The organization was renamed the New York State Federation of Teachers in the 1960s and the United Teachers of New York (UTNY) in 1971. That same year, Shanker was elected president of UTNY.\n\nIn 1971, the New York State legislature, under \"messages of necessity\" from Governor Nelson Rockefeller, enacted five \"anti-teacher\" laws. One extended the probationary period for new teachers from three to five years.\n\nShortly after, the executive director and other staff members of NYSTA began to meet with Shanker and his aides to discuss the possibility of a merger. Each union had spent large amounts of money battling the other for bargaining rights and members while the state legislature and local school districts steadily chipped away at union rights and collective bargaining agreements.\n\nIn 1971, Shanker and newly elected NYSTA president Thomas Hobart entered into formal merger negotiations. The merger agreement was signed March 30, 1972. Hobart was elected president and Shanker executive vice president. Other offices included Dan Sanders, first vice president; Antonia Cortese, second vice president; and Ed Rodgers, secretary-treasurer.\n\nNYSUT and UTNY had sought and won approval for the merger from both parent unions, but tensions with the NEA quickly became apparent. Hobart and Shanker began promoting a merger between the NEA and AFT at NEA meetings, an effort that met with a hostile response. NEA leadership began to isolate NYSUT officers and delegates at conventions and other meetings. The NEA staff, working through the UniServ system (which provides services to NEA local unions), began to actively turn other state and local NEA members against the merged union.\n\nIn 1976, the NEA undertook an 'image enhancement' campaign in New York state. NYSUT officials saw this as a propaganda effort designed to undermine the merged union.\n\nAt the NYSUT convention in New York City that same year, delegates argued over the merits of the disaffiliation resolution. Shanker then delivered a powerhouse speech that galvanized the delegates. The delegates responded by passing a resolution that disaffiliated NYSUT from NEA.\n\nShanker and Hobart had, however, ignored a key provision in the merger agreement approved by both NEA and AFT. It stated that disaffiliation from either national group, within a five-year period of the 1972 merger, would obligate NYSUT to pay \"liquidated damages\" to the national organization from which NYSUT disaffiliated. NYSUT was ultimately required to pay NEA a multi-million dollar settlement.\n\nNEA responded to the disaffiliation move by setting up a rival state organization, the New York Education Association (NYEA). The NEA believed that many NYSUT locals, with at least 50,000 members, would leave the organization. While many locals disaffiliated from the NYSUT, a few soon rejoined. Over the next quarter-century, NYEA's membership stagnated, while NYSUT's exploded thanks to its leaders' decision to recruit members outside the field of education.\n\nNYSUT's membership had, in fact, been diversified from the outset. The union welcomed paraprofessionals and other school-related personnel—including bus drivers, custodians, cafeteria workers, and others. It also affiliated several independent unions of higher education faculty. In 1979, the union began organizing registered nurses and other health care professionals in both public and private sector hospitals and clinics.\n\nShanker was elected president of the national AFT in 1974 but continued to hold his position in NYSUT until 1984. Shanker was elected to the executive council of the AFL-CIO in 1974 as well. His election represented the first time the AFT had a seat on the council. When, however, he voted against enhanced education funding in favor of Cold War measures (like the B-1 bomber), Shanker insisted that he was elected by all the members of the AFL-CIO convention and obliged, therefore, to vote against teachers when approval of defense appropriations was at issue.\n\nShanker died in 1997. Hobart retired as president of NYSUT in April 2005. He was succeeded by Richard Ianuzzi, NYSUT second vice president and a member of NYSUT's board of directors. In April 2014, Karen Magee was elected NYSUT president.\n\nPolitically, 1973 was a pivotal year for NYSUT. The union adopted UTNY's Committee of 100 program, a group of many more than 100 members who agreed to lobby the state legislature in person twice each year. In 1967 NYSUT had created its own political action committee, VOTE-COPE, which was also melded into NYSUT. In 2005, the Committee of 100 counted several thousand members and VOTE-COPE raised more than $3 million in voluntary contributions.\n\nOver the years, NYSUT's political activism has led it to be characterized as 'the 800-pound gorilla of New York politics.' Some of the union's accomplishments include:\n\nNYSUT continued to expand collective bargaining rights for teachers as well. In 1981, the union won passage of a law granting collective bargaining rights for substitute teachers. In 1982, the state legislature passed the Triborough Amendment to the Taylor Law. Many school districts ceased to honor clauses they disliked in expired teacher union contracts, which led many locals to strike. The Triborough Amendment required school districts to honor the entire contract until a new agreement was reached, and the number of strikes fell drastically.\n\nProfessional development also became a concern. In 1984, NYSUT successfully pushed for passage of a state law creating and funding centers where teachers could obtain continuing education. In 1986, the union won passage of a bill creating mandatory mentor-intern programs in schools, so that established teachers would be able to mentor student-teachers during their internships in the public schools.\n\nRetirement issues also came to the fore. NYSUT established a retiree division in 1976. In 1985, the state legislature passed a bill providing for full retirement benefits for any teacher aged 55 who had taught for at least 30 years. A year later, the union won passage of a bill giving school paraprofessionals a full year's retirement credit (12 months) for working a full 10-month school year.\n\nFor the 2012 New York's 18th congressional district the NYSUT endorsed Democrat Sean Patrick Maloney.\n\nOn May 5, 2006, NYSUT voted to merge with the NEA/NY, the renamed NYEA. The 35,000-member NYEA had approved the merger agreement on April 29, 2006. The merger became effective on September 1, 2006, and the newly merged union is now jointly affiliated with both the NEA and AFT.\n\nThe AFT has long sought merger with the NEA on a national level. But acrimonious relationships between the two unions on the local level and AFT's insistence on what NEA and its affiliates consider undemocratic practices and AFT's insistence upon affiliation with the AFL-CIO are significant obstacles. Among AFT's \"undemocratic\" practices are its abolition of the secret ballot, its requirement that delegates to its convention vote for officers by roll-call ballot, identifying their choices and their names in writing.\n\nThe two unions have continued to work together, however. After the failed merger attempt, the unions formed the 'NEAFT Partnership' to encourage joint policies on education, federal funding for public schools, and lobbying. The unions also agreed to support local- and state-level mergers where appropriate.\n\nThree other states have merged AFT-NEA affiliates: Florida, Minnesota and Montana. Among local mergers is that in Wichita, Kansas, long a battleground for the two national unions, and Los Angeles. Combined, the merged units represent 197,000 members. The NEA has 2.7 million members, the AFT 1.3 million.\n\nWith the NYSUT merger, 681,000 members of the AFT (or about 52 percent) now belong to NEA.\n\n"}
{"id": "21872111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21872111", "title": "OU Kuzman Sapkarev", "text": "OU Kuzman Sapkarev\n\n\"Kuzman Sapkarev\" won the first place in the handball tournament in the municipality Kisela Voda.\n\nThe school won the first place on the football tournament.\n\nThe school won the fourth place on the basketball tournament.\n\nThe school was host and winner of the schools quiz.\n"}
{"id": "45365690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45365690", "title": "Peter Brusilovsky", "text": "Peter Brusilovsky\n\nPeter Brusilovsky is a professor of Information science\nand Intelligent Systems (Artificial intelligence) at the University of Pittsburgh. He is known as one of the pioneers of Adaptive hypermedia, Adaptive Web,\nand Web-based Adaptive learning\nHe also published numerous articles in user modeling, personalization, educational technology, intelligent tutoring systems, and information access. Brusilovsky is ranked as #1 in the world in the area of Computer Education and #21 in the world in the area of World Wide Web by Microsoft Academic Search. According to Google Scholar, he has over 25,000 citations and h-index of 67. Brusilovsky's group has been awarded best paper awards at Adaptive Hypermedia, User Modeling, Hypertext, IUI, ICALT, and EC-TEL conference series. Among these awards are five prestigious James Chen Best Student paper awards.\n\nBrusilovsky studied applied mathematics and computer science at the Moscow State University. His doctoral advisor was Lev Nikolayevich Korolyov. He received postdoctoral training at University of Sussex, University of Trier, and Carnegie Mellon University under the guidance of Ben du Boulay, Gerhard Weber, and John Anderson. This research was supported by fellowships from Royal Society, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, and James S. McDonnell Foundation. Since 2000 he worked as an Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Full Professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Computing and Information (formerly School of Information Sciences). He is also Editor-in-Chief of IEEE Transactions on Learning Technologies. Brusilovsky is a recipient of NSF CAREER Award, SFI ETS Walton Visitor Award, and Fulbright-Nokia Distinguished Chair in Information and Communications Technologies. He also holds a honoris causa degree from Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava.\n\n"}
{"id": "44770854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44770854", "title": "Portugaliae Monumenta Historica", "text": "Portugaliae Monumenta Historica\n\nThe Portugaliae Monumenta Historica (Historical Monuments of Portugal, abbreviated PMH) is a collection of texts from Portuguese history. Inspired by the \"Monumenta Germaniae Historica\", it was published by the Academia das Ciências de Lisboa between 1856 and 1917 and divided into four sections: \"Scriptores\" (writers), \"Leges et Consuetudines\" (laws and customs), \"Diplomata et Chartae\" (diplomas and charters) and \"Inquisitiones\" (investigations). The first three were compiled under the direction of Alexandre Herculano before 1873, and the last, \"Inquisitiones\", between 1888 and 1897, after his death. The documents date from the Middle Ages and are primarily in Middle Latin and Old Portuguese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2841630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2841630", "title": "Robin Milhausen", "text": "Robin Milhausen\n\nRobin Milhausen (born August 25, 1975) is a Canadian sexologist, professor and former talk show host. She edits the newsletter \"Sexual Science\", published by the Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality.\n\nMilhausen was born in Kitchener, Ontario and raised in Collingwood, Ontario, on Georgian Bay. She decided at a young age to become a sex educator. She cites fellow Canadian sexologist Sue Johanson as a role model.\n\nMilhausen received a Bachelor's Degree in Psychology and a Master's Degree in Human Development and Human Relations at the University of Guelph in Ontario and went on to earn a Ph.D. at Indiana University, with a minor from the Kinsey Institute of Human Sexuality .\n\nIn 2003, Milhausen won the Outstanding Student Research Award from the Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality.\n\nIn 2004, Milhausen began hosting the talk show \"Sex, Toys & Chocolate\" on Life Network and Discovery Health in Canada. Since the show began, she finished her Ph.D. and engaged in a post-doctoral fellowship in 2004-05 at Emory University in Atlanta while commuting to Toronto several times each month to tape the talk show. In 2005-06, she engaged in another post-doctoral fellowship at the Social Justice and Sexual Health Research Centre at the University of Windsor. In 2006, Milhausen became an Assistant Professor of sexuality and family relations at the University of Guelph.\n\nMilhausen was the Resident Sexologist for the Canadian talk show \"Steven and Chris\".\n\nMilhausen married Steve Jett in late 2004, gave birth to son Leo in 2006, and daughter Molly in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "54172199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54172199", "title": "Scholaster", "text": "Scholaster\n\nA scholaster, from the Latin \"scholasticus\" (schoolmaster), or magister scholarum, was the head of an ecclesiastical school, typically a cathedral school, monastic school, or the school of a collegiate church, in medieval and early-modern Europe. Depending on the size of the school and the status of the institution to which it was attached, they might be the only teacher, the head of a considerable educational establishment, or have oversight over all the schools in their city or territory. The scholaster might be a dignitary in a cathedral or collegiate chapter, alongside the provost, dean, cantor, succentor, precentor, archdeacon, treasurer, cellarer, sacristan or almoner. It was not unknown for a scholaster to take the revenues of the post and deputise somebody else to carry out any teaching work involved.\n"}
{"id": "545473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=545473", "title": "School-to-work transition", "text": "School-to-work transition\n\nSchool-to-work transition is a phrase referring to on-the-job training, apprenticeships, cooperative education agreements or other programs designed to prepare students to enter the job market. This education system is primarily employed in the United States, partially as a response to work training as it is done in Asia.\n\nSchool to Work is a system to introduce the philosophy of school-based, work-based, and connecting activities as early as kindergarten to expose students to potential future careers. School to Work emphasizes lifelong learning.\n\nSchool to Work is funded and sponsored at the federal level by the U.S. Department of Labor and U.S. Department of Education. At the state level in states like Arizona, the grant is administered by the Arizona Department of Commerce, School to Work Division. This grant was funded for a maximum of five years with decreasing funds years three through five; \n\nAn example of county level involvement is the Cochise County School to Work Consortia in Arizona. It is composed of more than fifty Cochise County public and private schools, kindergarten through four-year university level, local and community-based organizations, and more than one hundred supporting business partners.\n\nSTW is part of a comprehensive education reform movement which includes formulating new standards which emphasize higher order thinking skills, new standards based assessments, and graduation exams, such as the Certificate of Initial Mastery which insure that students are ready for job training or college prep by age 16. Reformers believe that it is important and egalitarian that all students graduate ready for jobs and ready for college, rather than tracking students one way or the other.\n\n\"Back to basics\" traditionalists observe that in Europe, apprenticeships typically mean that the worker essentially ends their formal education after age 16, and works full-time at reduced pay in exchange for learning \"job skills\" such as assembling automobiles. Some believe that it was better to have students who were not bound for college concentrate on career schools, while academic students should spend class time learning core academic subjects such as history or science rather than job-shadowing at a hospital or auto dealer. A student in North Dakota would have little opportunity to learn to be an auto designer, while one in Alabama would have little opportunity to do job shadowing at a major software company if job training were allocated according to local human resource needs, as many programs are structured. Local businesses also need to structure their operations to accommodate student workers, and transportation since typically schools are situated close to homes, and not businesses which are typically a car or transit commute away from homes.\n\nThe Michigan STW Initiative states \"students work without pay for two to three hours each day\" and \"students are able to perform what might otherwise be hazardous order work.\" which would contradict child labor laws. Data would be shared with state STW partnership network and local labor market areas which might be an invasion of privacy. The state would utilize the national industry-recognized skill certificates when developed, which would be the Certificate of Initial Mastery. Critics call this a government-controlled passport to work. Michigan Rep. Harold J. Voorhees expressed concern that, with full implementation, a child would not be employed without this Certificate.\n\n"}
{"id": "22830584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22830584", "title": "Titirangi Rudolf Steiner School", "text": "Titirangi Rudolf Steiner School\n\nTitirangi Rudolf Steiner School (TRSS) is a privately funded school with a special character, a Waldorf school located in Auckland, New Zealand\n\nA co-educational, non-denominational and independent education for children aged birth to eighteen (Playgroup to High School) based on the educational philosophy of Rudolf Steiner.\n\nTitirangi Rudolf Steiner School provides a comprehensive Waldorf education Curriculum and environment which encourages and promotes independent thinking and social responsibility. The School understands children as beings of body, soul and spirit and guides them to develop compassion and reverence for themselves and the world community through realising their social, academic and artistic potential.\n\nThe unique gifts and contributions of each child are honoured through a developmentally appropriate awakening of thinking, feeling and willing as indicated by Rudolf Steiner.\n\nIt is located on a site of over 29 hectares in West Auckland's Waitakere Ranges.\n\nAccording to the 2018 Education Review Office report the school had 179 pupils out of which 18 were international. Out of those, 58% were female and 42% were male. The racial markup was 79% Pākehā, 4% Māori, 12% Asian, 3% Pacific and 2% of other races. ERO also found that the school meets the registration as a private school criteria.\n\nThe school's Kindergarten was reviewed separately by ERO who stated that 80% of teachers there were qualified. When it came to demographics, they were slightly different from the main school. The Titirangi Rudolf Steiner Kindergarten 1 had 53 pupils at the time of a review, 28 of which were male and 25 female. Out of those, 40% were Pākehā, 3% were Māori, 2% were Japanese, 6% of European descent and 2% were of other races.\n\n"}
{"id": "7128237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7128237", "title": "Valuev Circular", "text": "Valuev Circular\n\nThe Valuev Circular (; ) of 18 July 1863 was a secret decree (ukaz) of the Minister of Internal Affairs of the Russian Empire Pyotr Valuev (Valuyev) by which a large portion of the publications (religious, and literature used for school training) in the Ukrainian language was forbidden.\n\nThe Circular has put the reason for the growing number of textbooks in Ukrainian, and beginner-level books in Ukrainian with \"the Poles' political interests\" and the \"separatist intentions of some of the Little Russians\". The Circular also stated that \"a separate Little Russian language never existed, doesn't exist, and couldn't exist\", and that the commoners' tongue in Little Russia is nothing but Russian corrupted by Polish influence.\n\nThe Circular ordered the Censorship Committees to ban the publication of religious texts, educational texts, and beginner-level books in Ukrainian, but permitted publication of \"belles-lettres\" works in that language.\n\nFurther restrictions were placed on the Ukrainian language by the Ems Ukaz in 1876, which completely prohibited the usage of the language in open print.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5274182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5274182", "title": "Virtual Reality in the Schools", "text": "Virtual Reality in the Schools\n\nVR in the Schools is a peer-reviewed journal of the Virtual Reality and Education Laboratory (VREL), published by East Carolina University. \"VR in the Schools\" addresses issues of incorporating virtual reality into the education system. The journal started out as a printed quarterly, but changed to an online-only publishing format starting with volume 3 and was described by its editors in 2011 as an occasional publication.\n\n\"VR in the Schools\" is available free of charge. The current co-editors are Dr. Veronica S. Pantelidis and Mr. David C. Vinciguerra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42594766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42594766", "title": "World Federation of Teachers Unions", "text": "World Federation of Teachers Unions\n\nThe World Federation of Teachers Unions known by its French initials FISE (Federation Internationale Syndicale de L'Enseignement) is an international trade union of educators affiliated with the World Federation of Trade Unions.\n\nThe FISE was founded in Paris in July 1946 as a merger of the International Professional Secretariat of Education and \"l’Internationale des Travailleurs de l’Enseignement\" (ITE), with the participation of the American Education Association. In 1951 a group of unions split off and founded the International Federation of Free Teachers Unions.\n\nFISE is an organization with consultative status with United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). It has had its position within UNESCO since at least 1985.\n\nFISE takes actively part in the Worker’s Group of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), as well as in conferences of all of the above international organisations.\nDuring the previous period it actively participated in most activities of the WFTU and took initiatives which strengthened the renown and the strength of the organisation.\nIn 2013 it organized an international conference in Brussels on “the role of teachers today, today’s school, public education, democracy in education” and published a book with the proceedings.\nIt held meetings with trade unionists teachers from different countries and unions: Cuba, Germany, Egypt, Palestine, Greece, Italy, Mexico, etc.\nFISE publishes every year announcements and posters useful for every trade union, concerning the International Workers’ May Day (May 1), the International Teachers Day, the International Women's Day (March 8), the Day of the Anti-fascist Victory of Peoples (May 9), the day against violence towards women, against child labour, for the refugees, the xenophobia and racism, and other relevant topics or subjects of commemoration. \nIt particularly focuses on the expression of concrete solidarity.\nIt denounced the killings and police attacks against the Mexican teachers. \nOne of the most important actions that FISE undertook in Greece was the solidarity campaign for the children of Palestine, entitled \"a notebook for GAZA\". Many students, parents, parents' associations, cultural associations, women's associations, responded to the invitation of FISE and gathered materials. They organized theatrical performances in which the ticket was two notebooks or other school supplies. Discussions have been held by teachers to students on the situation in Palestine. Painting exhibitions on the Palestinian matter were organised, as well as other initiatives, too.\n\nIn 2017 FISE also launched a support campaign for Yemeni children and protests against the war in Yemen.\n\nThe organizations highest organ is the Statutory Conference, formerly called the World Conference of Teachers. Originally annual events, they were held at irregular intervals in the 1950s and now are constitutionally mandated to be held every four years. Between meetings of this conference the organization is headed by an Administrative Committee which meets at least once a year. Day to operations are directed by a Bureau which consists of the General Secretary, President, Vice-President and Secretariat, who are ex-officio members of the Administrative Committee.\n\nFISE was originally headquartered in Paris but was expelled in 1952 for \"fifth column activities\". It then moved to the Soviet sector of Vienna, but was expelled, again, in February 1956. The location of the headquarters immediately after the expulsion from Vienna is unclear, though FISEs' journal \"Teachers of the World\" was published from 10 Rue de Solférino, Paris 7ème. In 1978 its headquarters is reported at Wilhelm Wolff Strasse 21, East Berlin 111. It was at the same address in 1985. Its current headquarters is at 6/6 Kalicharan Ghosh Road, 700 050, Kolkata, India. After the 18th Congress of FISE is currently located in Mexico.\n\nThe first six conferences were called \"World Conferences of Teachers\". They were denoted \"Statutory Conferences\" since at least 1985:\n\n\nIn August 1956 FISE was reported to have seven million members in 34 countries. By the 1978 this had grown to over 16 million in 74 organizations in 50 countries. In 1985 the group claimed 20 million members in 121 organizations in 82 countries. As of 2009 FISE claimed over 26 million members within 156 trade unions in 40 countries including France, Greece, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Congo, Ethiopia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, Mozambique, Senegal, Togo, Argentina, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, Bangladesh, China, India, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Nepal, Pakistan, Palestinian territories, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam, and Yemen.\n\nBy 1978 the FISE had two regional federations, the Confederation of American Teachers and the Federal of Arab Teachers Syndicates. As of 2009 there are four regional affiliates - Confederation of American Educators, Federation of Teachers Organizations of Central America, Federation of Arab Teachers and the Federation of University Workers Unions of Central America, the Caribbean and Mexico\nSince 2012 one Vice-president of FISE is elected for each continent. On the basis of the Vice-President, there is one Regional Office per continent.\n\nIn 1978 the following organizations were affiliated with FISE:\n\n\nThe FISE published a quarterly \"Teachers of the World\" in English, French and German with \"separate\" Latin American Spanish and Japanese editions. By the 1980s this publication carried a \"pedagogical supplement\" financed by UNESCO. Another bulletin was published 8 times a year and was variously called \"Educators International Courier\" or \"International Teachers News\". It was published in English, French, Spanish, German, Russian, Portuguese and Arabic.\n\nFISE still publishes \"Teachers of the World\" quarterly in English as well as the \"FISE Information Letter\" eight times a year in French, English, Spanish, Russian, German, Portuguese, Arabic.\n\nFISE also submitted a nomination for the 2018 edition of the UNESCO Prize for Girls’ and Women’s Education (GWE) to UNESCO.\n\n"}
