{"id": "3414187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3414187", "title": "Adam Rita", "text": "Adam Rita\n\nAdam Rita (Born September 21, 1947) is a Canadian Football League executive who has served as the head coach of Toronto Argonauts, Ottawa Rough Riders, and BC Lions and as general manager of the Lions and Argonauts.\n\nRita first began his CFL coaching career in 1983 as the offensive co-ordinator for the B.C. Lions. He first became a CFL Head Coach in 1991 with the Toronto Argonauts with whom he won his first and only Grey Cup championship as a Head Coach in that same year.\n\nRita grew up on Kaua'i, Hawai'i and as a young boy, he was a member of a canoe club and appeared paddling a canoe in the wedding scene of the Elvis Presley movie \"Blue Hawaii\".\n\nRita has two sons, Kevin and Harrison and two grandchildren Seth and Jennifer.\n\nIn 2004, Rita was named General Manager and Vice President of Football Operations of the Toronto Argonauts. Toronto won the 92nd Grey Cup in his first year on the job, but managed only a 48–60 record after that. Rita's contract was not renewed following the 2010 season and he was replaced by head coach Jim Barker.\n\n"}
{"id": "47489053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47489053", "title": "Andreas Strehler", "text": "Andreas Strehler\n\nAndreas Strehler (born 1971 in Winterthur, Switzerland) is a Swiss watchmaker and designer of watch movements.\n\nAndreas Strehler did his apprenticeship at a watchmaker's shop in Frauenfeld and graduated as Watchmaker-Rhabilleur with a Swiss Federal Diploma in 1991. At the same time, he attended the Watchmakers' School in Solothurn. After graduation, he began his first job in Le Locle at Renaud & Papi SA which today belongs to Audemars Piguet as Audemars Piguet Renaud & Papi SA. There, he was the first watchmaker the owners had hired. Strehler is appointed as head of prototyping and in charge of implementing the firm's technical innovations. At the end of 1994, he leaves Renaud & Papi and moves back to his native Wülflingen near Winterthur.\n\nOn January first 1995, Strehler opens his own workshop. Initially, like many of his peers, he concentrates on repairing and restoring old watches and clocks.\n\nIn 2000 is appointed as member of the Académie Horlogère des Créateurs Indépendants (AHCI)\n\nIn 2005, he incorporates UhrTeil AG, a company under whose name he works for the watch industry. The name UhrTeil plays with the German words Uhr Teil (watch part) and Urteil (verdict).\nBesides the engineering of components, complications and complete movements, Strehler's company also manufactures the components which have been developed in house on machines, some of which have been developed by Strehler. The portfolio includes the manufacturing of prototypes and small and large series for many well-known watch brands.\n\nIn 2007 Andreas Strehler moves his domicile and the company to Sirnach in the canton Thurgau near Lake Constance.\n\nIn 1998, Strehler presents the \"Tischkalender\" (table calendar), his first clock. The table clock with perpetual calendar incorporates a removable pocket watch. If the pocket watch is inserted into the desk unit, the lattes perpetual calendar is synchronized. Several safety features prevent maloperation. Each \"Tischkalender\" works according to the principle of lock and key only with a specific matching pocket watch. The desktop calendar has its own spring to switch the calendar display but does not work independently. If the owner and his pocket watch are away, time stands still. Upon return of the owner and after reinserting the pocket watch, the desktop calendar detects how many days have passed and moves the date indication to the correct date.\n\nIn 1999, Strehler presents a second pocket watch, the \"Zwei\" (German: Two). This features a switchable indication. At the push of a button, the hands of the watch indicate the date (minute hand) and the month (hour hand). The hands move independently and will always reach their position in the shortest way. For this mechanism, Strehler receives his first patent.In 2001 Strehler implements the mechanism of the \"Zwei\" in a wristwatch. For this, he miniaturised the mechanism designed for a pocket watch to fit into a wristwatch.\n\nIn the years from 2003 to 2011, Strehler developed the movements for the newly founded brand H. Moser & Cie. in Schaffhausen. Among these movements are the Perpetual Moon (phase of the moon) with a deviation of only one day in 1,000 years and the Perpetual One, a perpetual calendar with a large date indication on the three o'clock position. A further particular feature of this movement is called Flash-Calendar, the instantaneous switching from the last day of the month to the first day of the next month, i.e. from 29 February to 1 March [5].\n\nIn 2007, Strehler in collaboration with Harry Winston designs the movement for the Opus 7 [6]. The Opus 7 is a further development of the \"Zwei\".\n\nIn 2008, Strehler presents the \"Papillon\" (French: Butterfly), a new wristwatch incorporating many of his trademark construction principles to achieve an open, living movement and allowing an insight deep into the movement's workings. With the \"Cocon\" (French: Cocoon), presented in 2012, a new line of watches is launched. The \"Cocon\" case is used as a basis for further developments and new models.\n\nIn 2013, the \"Sauterelle\" (French: Grashopper) is presented. It features Strehler's own constant force device, a so-called rémontoir d’égalité, which supplies the escapement with constant energy. By this device, irregularities which are inherent to any movement are virtually eliminated and a linear amplitude of the balance wheel is achieved for the whole duration of the mainspring's capacity of 78 hours. The remontoir d’égalité is patented.CH707938 (A2) \n\nOn SalonQP in London in November 2014, the \"Sauterelle à lune perpétuélle\" is being launched. It is the most precise phase of the moon indication with a deviation of one day in 2'060'757 years. The \"Sauterelle à lune\" is awarded a Guinness World Record: \"Sauterelle à lune perpétuelle by Andreas Strehler (Switzerland), with a deviation of 1 day in 2'060'757 years, as validated in November 2014\".\n\n2015 Strehler presents the \"Papillon d’Or\"\" (French: golden butterfly). Under a butterfly bridge made of 18k gold, the movement's delicate mechanism is completely visible. On the back of the movement, the power reserve is indicated by a mechanism incorporating a micro differential gear.\n\nStrehler is a highly recognised specialist for the construction and manufacturing of differential gears and true conical gear wheels.\n\nIn 2013 Strehler was awarded the Prix Gaïa of the International Museum of Horology (MIH) in La Chaux-de-Fonds in the category artesanat-création for his technical and artistic creations.\n\n"}
{"id": "57719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57719", "title": "Arkan", "text": "Arkan\n\nŽeljko Ražnatović (, ; 17 April 1952 – 15 January 2000), better known as Arkan (Аркан), was a Serbian career criminal and commander of a paramilitary force in the Yugoslav Wars, called the Serb Volunteer Guard. He was on Interpol's most wanted list in the 1970s and 1980s for robberies and murders committed in a number of countries across Europe, and was later indicted by the UN for crimes against humanity for his role during the wars. Ražnatović was up until his death the most powerful crime boss in the Balkans. He was assassinated in January 2000, before his trial could take place.\n\nŽeljko Ražnatović was born in Brežice, a small border town in Slovenian Styria, FPR Yugoslavia. His father, Veljko Ražnatović, served as a decorated officer in the SFR Yugoslav Air Force, earning high rank for his notable World War II involvement on the Partisan side, and was stationed in Slovenian Styria at the time of Željko's birth.\n\nHe spent part of his childhood in Zagreb (SR Croatia) and Pančevo (SR Serbia), before his father's job eventually took the family to the Yugoslav capital of Belgrade (SR Serbia), which Ražnatović considered his hometown. His father was born in Cetinje (SR Montenegro), a descendant of the Ražnatović brotherhood, and had taken part in the Yugoslav liberation of Priština in World War II.\n\nRažnatović grew up in Belgrade with three older sisters in a strict, militaristic household with regular beatings administered by his father. In a 1991 interview he recalled: \"He didn't really hit me in a classical sense, he'd basically grab me and slam me against the floor.\"\n\nIn his youth, Ražnatović aspired to become a pilot, as his father had been. Due to the highly demanding and significant positions of his parents, there appeared to be very little time in which a bond was able to be established between parents and children. His parents eventually divorced during his teenage years.\n\nRažnatović was arrested for the first time in 1966 after snatching women's purses around Tašmajdan, spending a year at a juvenile detention center not far from Belgrade. His father then sent him to the seaside town of Kotor (in Montenegro) to join the Yugoslav Navy, but Ražnatović had other plans, ending up in Paris at the age of 15. In 1969 he was arrested by French police and shipped home, where he was sentenced to three years at the detention center in Valjevo for several burglaries. During this time he organized his own gang in the prison.\n\nIn his youth, Ražnatović was a ward of his father's friend, the Slovenian politician and Federal Minister of the Interior, Stane Dolanc. Dolanc was chief of the secret police and a close associate of the Yugoslav president, Tito.\n\nWhenever Ražnatović was in trouble, Dolanc helped him, allegedly as a reward for his services to the Yugoslav secret state police (UDBA), as seen in the escape from the Lugano prison in 1981. Dolanc is quoted as having said: \"One Arkan is worth more than the whole UDBA.\"\n\nIn 1972, aged 20, he migrated to Western Europe. Abroad, he was introduced to and kept contact with many well-known criminals from Yugoslavia such as Ljuba Zemunac, Ranko Rubežić, Đorđe \"Giška\" Božović, Goran Vuković, et al., all of whom were also occasionally contracted by the Yugoslav secret service, and all of whom were since assassinated or otherwise killed. He took the nickname \"Arkan\" from one of his forged passports. On 28 December 1973 he was arrested in Belgium following a bank robbery, and was sentenced to ten years in prison.\n\nHe managed to escape from the Verviers prison on 4 July 1979. Although Ražnatović was apprehended in the Netherlands on 24 October 1979, the few months he was free were enough for at least two more armed robberies in Sweden and three more in the Netherlands. Serving a seven-year sentence at a prison in Amsterdam, he pulled off another escape on 8 May 1981 after someone slipped him a gun. Wasting no time, more robberies followed, this time in Germany, where after less than a month of freedom he was arrested in Frankfurt on 5 June 1981 following a jewellery store stickup. In the ensuing shootout with police he was lightly wounded, resulting in his placement in the prison hospital ward, where looser security allowed him to escape again only four days later, on 9 June, supposedly by jumping from the window, beating up the first bystander and stealing his clothing before disappearing.\n\nHis final European arrest occurred in Basel, Switzerland during a routine traffic check on 15 February 1983. However he managed to escape again within months, this time from Thorberg prison on 27 April. It is widely speculated that Ražnatović was closely affiliated with the Yugoslav security service UDBA throughout his criminal career abroad.\n\nHe had convictions or warrants in Belgium (bank robberies, prison escape), the Netherlands (armed robberies, prison escape), Sweden (20 burglaries, 7 bank robberies, prison escape, attempted murder), Germany (armed robberies, prison escape), Austria, Switzerland (armed robberies, prison escape), and Italy.\n\nRažnatović returned to Belgrade in May 1983, continuing his criminal career by opening a number of illegal businesses. In November 1983, six months after his return, a bank in Zagreb was robbed with the robbers leaving a rose on the counter – allegedly Ražnatović's signature from his Western European robberies. As a result, two federal policemen, members of the Secretariat of Internal Affairs' (SUP) Tenth department, showed up in civilian clothing looking for Arkan at his mother's apartment on 27 March Street in Belgrade.\n\nRažnatović was not there, so his mother called him and said that two unknown males waited for him. He showed up with a revolver and proceeded to shoot and wound both policemen – he shot the first one on the spot and the other while trying to flee the scene. Arkan was detained immediately, however, barely 48 hours later he was released. The occurrence made it clear to all observers that he enjoyed protection from the political elite. He spent the mid-1980s running a disco club, \"Amadeus\", together with Žika Živac and Tapi Malešević. Located in the Tašmajdan neighbourhood, the club was reportedly another perk of their contractual work for the security service.\n\nFurthermore, Arkan could be seen riding around Belgrade in his pink Cadillac and gambling on roulette in casinos all over the country, from Belgrade and nearby Pančevo to Sveti Stefan and Portorož. Following a game of poker in a private apartment at Ive Lole Ribara Street, Bečići, an elevator altercation started with a tenant from the apartment building. Arkan reportedly broke the man's arm after beating him with a gun. He couldn't avoid being charged this time and the trial saw an interesting exchange between him and the judge – during the pre-session identification Arkan stated he was employed by the Secretariat of Internal Affairs. When this was challenged by the prosecutor, Arkan produced a document about a mortgage loan that he obtained from the Federal State Security for his house at Ljutice Bogdana Street. He ended up receiving a six-month sentence, which he served at the Belgrade Central Prison.\n\nOnly days after the Croatian elections in 1990, Ražnatović, who was the leader of the \"Delije\" (football club Red Star Belgrade's Ultras), was present at the away game against Croatian side Dinamo Zagreb at Stadion Maksimir on 13 May 1990, a match that ended in the infamous Dinamo–Red Star riot. Ražnatović and the Delije, consisting of 1,500 people, were involved in a huge fight with the home team's football hooligans.\n\nOn 11 October 1990, as the political situation in Yugoslavia became tense (see Log Revolution), Ražnatović created a paramilitary group named the Serb Volunteer Guard. Ražnatović was the supreme commander of the unit, which was primarily made up of members of the \"Delije\" and his friends.\n\nIn late October 1990, Ražnatović traveled to Knin (in Croatia) to meet representatives of the Republic of Serbian Krajina, a Serb break-away region that sought to remain in FR Yugoslavia, as opposed to the Croatian government that seceded. On 29 November 1990, Croatian police arrested him at the Croatian-Bosnian border crossing Dvor na Uni, along with local Dušan Carić, and Belgraders Dušan Bandić and Zoran Stevanović. His entourage was sent to Sisak, and was charged with conspiracy to overthrow the newly-formed Croatian state. Ražnatović was sentenced to 20 months in jail. He was released from Zagreb's Remetinec prison on 14 June 1991. It has been claimed that the Croatian and Serbian governments agreed on a 1,000,000 Deutsche Mark settlement for his release.\n\nIn July 1991, Ražnatović stayed for some time at the Cetinje monastery, with Metropolitan Amfilohije Radović. His group of men, fully armed, were allowed to enter the monastery, where they served as security. His group traveled from Cetinje to the Siege of Dubrovnik. On his return from Dubrovnik, he was again a guest at Cetinje.\n\nThe Serb Volunteer Guard, commonly known as \"Arkan's Tigers\", was organized as a paramilitary force supporting the Serb armies, set up in a former military facility in Erdut. The force, led by Arkan and Legija, consisted of a core of 200 men and perhaps totaled no more than 500 to 1,000, but was much feared. It saw action from mid-1991 until late 1995, and was supplied and equipped privately, by the reserves of the Serbian police force, and through capturing enemy arms.\n\nWhen war in Croatia broke out, the unit was active in the Vukovar region. After the Bosnian War broke out in April 1992 the unit moved between the Croatian and Bosnian fronts. In Croatia, it fought in various areas in SAO Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Syrmia (Serbian Krajina). Arkan reportedly had a dispute over military operations with Krajina leader Milan Martić. In Bosnia, the unit notably fought in battles in and around Zvornik, Bijeljina and Brčko, mostly against Bosniak and Bosnian Croat paramilitary groups.\n\nIn late 1995 his troops fought in the area of Banja Luka, Sanski Most and Prijedor. In October 1995 he left Sanski Most, as the Bosnian Army reclaimed the city.\n\nRažnatović personally led most of the operations, and rewarded his most efficient officers and soldiers with ranks, medals and eventually products of lootings. Several younger soldiers were rewarded for their actions in and around Kopački Rit and Bijelo Brdo. Ražnatović reportedly sent one of his most trusted men, Radovan Stanišić, to Italy to start a relationship with Camorra boss Francesco Schiavone. According to Roberto Saviano, Schiavone eased arms smuggling to Serbia by stopping the Albanian mobsters' blocking of weapons routes, and helped money transfer into Serbia in the form of humanitarian aid amid the international sanctions. In exchange the Camorra acquired companies, enterprises, shops and farms in Serbia at optimal prices.\n\nRažnatović came to serve as a popular icon for both Serbs and their enemies. For some Serbs he was a patriot and folk hero, while serving as a target of hatred and fear to their enemies.\n\nArkan became an untouchable criminal figure in Belgrade and all of the former Yugoslavia. He was really so powerful, so strong financially that no one could do anything about him... In 1993, I learned that Željko Ražnatović, Arkan, had in Belgrade kidnapped and taken to Erdut and there killed Isa Lero... also a man from the criminal underground who had come into conflict with Arkan. I even found a witness to the murder. I publicly accused Arkan. I submitted a report to the police. The police inspectors came to see me. We talked about it. I gave them all the information I had, but then the police inspector told me that they were aware of it but that they were unable to prove it because of the fear among the potential witnesses. So the police were quite well-informed about his criminal activities, but it was very hard to prove anything or to bring charges because his support network was so widespread, and this can be shown through various newspaper articles and so on. In one television statement, I told him when we were debating on TV, that he had pulled a sock over his head more often than I had pulled one on my feet.\n\nIn the postwar period after the Dayton agreement was signed, Ražnatović returned to his interests in sport and private business. The Serb Volunteer Guard was officially disbanded in April 1996 with the threat to be reactivated in case of war emergency. In June of that year he took over a second division soccer team FK Obilić which he soon turned into a top caliber club, even winning the 1997/98 Yugoslav league championship. According to a book by Franklin Foer, \"How Football Explains the World: An Unlikely Theory of Globalization\", Ražnatović threatened players on opposing teams if they scored against Obilić.\n\nThis threat was underlined by the thousands of veterans from his army that filled their home field, chanting threats, and on occasion pointing pistols at opposition players during matches. One player told the British football magazine \"FourFourTwo\" that he was locked in a garage when his team played Obilić. Europe's football governing body, UEFA, considered prohibiting Obilić from participation in continental competitions because of its connections to Ražnatović. In response to this, Ražnatović stepped away from the position of president and gave his seat to his wife Ceca. In a 2006 interview, Dragoslav Šekularac (who was coach of Obilić while Arkan was with the club) said claims that Arkan verbally and physically assaulted Obilić players were false. Ražnatović was a chairman of the Yugoslav Kickboxing Association. \n\nAccording to chief judge Richard May from the United Kingdom, the ICTY issued an indictment against Ražnatović on 30 September 1997 for war crimes of genocide against the Muslim population, crimes against humanity and grave breaches of the Geneva convention. The warrant was not made public until 31 March 1999, a week after the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia had begun, as intervention in the Kosovo War (1998–99). Ražnatović's indictment was made public by the UN court's chief prosecutor Louise Arbour.\n\nIn the week before the start of NATO bombing – as the Rambouillet talks collapsed – Ražnatović appeared at the Hyatt hotel in Belgrade, where most Western journalists were staying, and ordered all of them to leave Serbia.\n\nDuring the NATO bombing, Ražnatović denied the war crime charges against him in interviews he gave to foreign reporters. Ražnatović accused NATO of bombing civilians and creating refugees of all ethnicities, and stated that he would deploy his troops only in the case of a direct NATO ground invasion. After the U.S. bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade, which killed three journalists and led to a diplomatic row between the United States and the People’s Republic of China, the British \"Observer\" and Danish \"Politiken\" newspapers claimed the building might have been targeted because the office of the Chinese military attaché was being used by Ražnatović to communicate and transmit messages to his paramilitary group, the Tigers, in Kosovo. As neither paper offered any proof for this claim it was largely ignored by the media.\n\nArkan showed a small rubber part of the downed F-117A, which he had as \"a souvenir\", to Western journalists during the NATO bombing.\n\nIn March 1999, the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) announced that Ražnatović had been indicted by the Tribunal, although the indictment was only made public after his assassination. According to the indictment Ražnatović was to have been prosecuted on 24 charges of crimes against humanity (Art. 5 ICTY Statute), grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions (Art. 2 ICTY Statute) and violations of the laws of war (Art. 3 ICTY Statute), for the following acts:\n\n\nRažnatović was assassinated, on Saturday, 15 January 2000, 17:05 GMT, in the lobby of Belgrade's elite InterContinental Hotel, a location where he was surrounded by other hotel guests. The killer, Dobrosav Gavrić, a 23-year-old junior police mobile brigade member, had ties to the underworld and was on sick leave at the time. He walked up alone toward his target from behind. Ražnatović was sitting and chatting with two friends and, according to BBC Radio, was filling out a betting slip. Gavrić waited for a few minutes, calmly walked up behind the party, and rapidly fired a succession of bullets from his CZ-99 pistol. Ražnatović was shot in his left eye and lapsed into a coma on the spot. His bodyguard Zvonko Mateović put him into a car, and rushed him to a hospital, but he died on the way.\n\nAccording to his widow, Svetlana, Ražnatović died in her arms as they were driving to the hospital. His companions Milenko Mandić, a business manager, and Dragan Garić, a police inspector, were also shot to death by Gavrić, who in turn was shot and wounded by Mateović. A female bystander was seriously wounded in the shootout as well. After complicated surgery, Gavrić survived, but was disabled and confined to a wheelchair as the result of a spinal wound.\n\nA memorial ceremony in Ražnatović's honour was held on 19 January 2000 with writer Branislav Crnčević, Yugoslav Left (JUL) official Aleksandar Vulin, singers Oliver Mandić, Toni Montano, and Zoran Kalezić, along with the entire first team of FK Obilić with club director Dragoslav Šekularac in attendance.\n\nŽeljko Ražnatović was buried at the Novo groblje (New Cemetery) in Belgrade with military honours by his volunteers and with funeral rites on 20 January 2000. Around 10,000 people attended the funeral.\n\nDobrosav Gavrić pleaded innocent but was convicted and sentenced to 19 years in prison. His accomplices received from 3 to 15 years each, after a year-long trial in 2002. However the district court verdict was overturned by the Supreme Court because of \"lack of evidence and vagueness of the first trial process\". A new trial was conducted in 2006, ending on 9 October 2006 with guilty verdicts upheld for Gavrić as well as his accomplices, Milan Đuričić and Dragan Nikolić. Each man was sentenced to 30 years in prison.\n\nNPR reported that Arkan simply knew too much when war crimes trials were becoming a reality for the Milošević regime. Former French Intelligence Officer Pierre-Henri Bunel suggested that \"the executors of the political dirty work for the White House\", who may have used Ražnatović as a puppet, were fearful of the disclosure of revelations. Bunel corroborates his claim by indicating that \"... c'est justement parce qu'on ne le cherche pas où il faudrait qu'on ne trouve pas l'ennemi public numéro 1 du moment\". Ražnatović was, as stated above, on Interpol's Most Wanted list for nearly two decades.\n\nŽeljko Ražnatović fathered nine children by five different women.\n\nHis eldest son Mihajlo was born in Gothenburg, in 1975, from a relationship with a Swedish woman. In 1992, 17-year-old Mihajlo decided to move to Serbia to live with his father. During this time the teenager was photographed wearing the uniform of his father's paramilitary unit during the Yugoslav Wars and according to a Swedish tabloid report the youngster participated in combat operations in Srebrenica. Mihajlo has since lived in Belgrade where he played for the Red Star Belgrade ice-hockey club off and on between 2000 and 2009, also representing Serbia-Montenegro on the national team level between 2002 and 2004. During this time he also ran a sushi restaurant in Belgrade called Iki Bar and dated Macedonian pop singer Karolina Gočeva. He left Serbia after that.\n\nIn 2013 he was in the news in Serbia again following the conclusion of a court case that had dragged on since 2005 over Ražnatović's failure to meet the repayment terms on a RSD1.1 million car loan he took out in 2002 from Komercijalna Banka. After continually failing to meet his monthly payments, the bank wanted the loan paid off in full in August 2005, and two years later took him to court. In June 2010 he was ordered to pay RSD3.3 million based upon the interest on the original loan. In the end, the verdict stated he owed the bank RSD2.9 million. Arkan also fathered two other children out of wedlock.\n\nRažnatović's first wife was Natalija Martinović, a Spanish language professor, with whom he had four children. Their divorce became official in December 1994. All four children decided to carry their mother's surname.\n\nSince 1993, Ražnatović had been involved with folk singer \"Ceca\", 21 years his junior. Their lavish wedding ceremony on 19 February 1995 occurred as a day-long media production carried live on TV Pink with different locations and changes of clothing (at different points of the ceremony Ražnatović alternated between World War I Serb military uniform and traditional Montenegrin attire). Ceca bore him two more children.\n\nIn June 1994, sometime after her separation from Ražnatović, Natalija Martinović and their four children left Yugoslavia and moved to Athens, Greece, where Ražnatović bought them an apartment in the suburb of Glyfada. After Ražnatović's death, Martinović disputed his will, claiming that Ceca, his second wife, doctored it. In May 2000, she sued Ceca over Ražnatović's assets, including the villa at Ljutice Bogdana Street in which he and Ceca lived (and where Ceca continues to reside), claiming it was built with funds from a bank loan Martinović and Ražnatović took out in 1985. The court eventually ruled against Martinović. The court agreed with her assertions that the villa was built with money from a 1985 bank loan taken out by her and Ražnatović, but ruled she had forfeited any rights in future division of that asset when she signed the property over to Ražnatović in 1994 before moving to Greece.\n\nIn 2012, Ražnatović's son by his first wife, Vojin Martinović, again accused Ceca of falsifying Ražnatović's will. In response, Ražnatović's former associate Borislav Pelević said that the villa at Ljutice Bogdana Street was not mentioned in Ražnatović's will as he had already signed it over to his second wife.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3142518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3142518", "title": "Audrey Hylton-Foster, Baroness Hylton-Foster", "text": "Audrey Hylton-Foster, Baroness Hylton-Foster\n\nAudrey Pellew Hylton-Foster, Baroness Hylton-Foster DBE (née Brown; 19 May 1908 – 31 October 2002), was the daughter of Douglas Clifton Brown, 1st Viscount Ruffside, and Violet Cicely Kathleen Wollaston. She married Sir Harry Braustyn Hylton-Foster, who had started a distinguished career at the Bar in 1931; they had no children.\n\nBorn in Simla, India, she was educated at St George’s, Ascot, and Ivy House, Wimbledon. Both her father and husband served as Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\nAudrey Hylton-Foster first lived at Speaker’s House during her father’s time there, when she went to recover from measles. While she was convalescing she started working for the British Red Cross, and this, apart from politics, became her life’s work.\n\nDuring World War II she was a nurse at St Luke’s Hospital, Chelsea. She cycled thousands of miles around London on her Red Cross duties. In 1950 she became director of the Chelsea division of the British Red Cross. She was at various times president, chairman and patron of the London branch. In late 1980 she was acting as consultant at the national headquarters.\n\nHer husband began his political career after World War II. He lost his first try at a seat in the House of Commons for the Shipley constituency in 1945. By 1950 he was Member of Parliament (MP) for York. In 1951 and 1955 his majorities were slim; however, in 1959, after changing constituencies, his majority was a very healthy 17,000.\n\nAfter her husband's death in office in 1965, she was created a life peer as Baroness Hylton-Foster, of the City of Westminster on 7 December 1965. Despite her prior objections to women politicians, she became an active member of the House of Lords, and for many years served as Convenor of the Crossbench peers. She was appointed a Dame of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in the 1990 Birthday Honours.\n\nAudrey Hylton-Foster lived in a converted Coach House on Leith Hill in Surrey. Each year she decided to open her gardens to the public, in order to raise money for various charities. One year, with help from actress Virginia McKenna, a substantial amount was raised for the Born Free Foundation.\n\nShe was a passionate gardener in her later years and would be out in her garden in all weathers right up until her death. The Garden Open Day raised funds for a number of good causes including the British Red Cross, Cancer Research, local schools etc. All supported by her loyal staff Mr and Mrs Pinchin.\n\nShe died on 31 October 2002, at her home, aged 94.\n\n"}
{"id": "1327047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1327047", "title": "B. S. Chandrasekhar", "text": "B. S. Chandrasekhar\n\nBhagwat Subramanya Chandrasekhar (informally Chandra; born 17 May 1945) is a former Indian cricketer who played as a leg spinner. Considered among the top echelon of leg spinners, Chandrasekhar along with E.A.S. Prasanna, Bishen Singh Bedi and Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan constituted the Indian spin quartet that dominated spin bowling during the 1960s and 1970s. At a very young age, polio left his right arm withered. Chandrasekhar played 58 Test matches, capturing 242 wickets at an average of 29.74 in a career that spanned sixteen years.\n\nChandrasekhar was named as a \"Wisden\" Cricketer of the Year in 1972; in 2002 he won Wisden's award for \"Best bowling performance of the century\" for India, for his six wickets for 38 runs against England at the Oval in 1971.\n\nChandrasekhar was born in 1945 in Mysore, where he had his primary education. He developed an early interest in cricket watching the playing styles of Australian leg spinner Richie Benaud. An attack of polio at the age of six left his right arm withered. At the age of 10, his hand had recovered and Chandrasekhar started playing cricket.\n\nBy that time his family relocated to Bangalore and he got an opportunity to play for \"City Cricketers\". In an interview, Chandrasekhar stated that he joined up mainly to get a chance to play with the leather ball. While playing on the streets of Bangalore, he had mainly used a rubber ball. While playing for the club, Chandrasekhar tried different bowling styles that also included fast bowling. It was in 1963 that he decided to play as a leg spin bowler. His idea proved to be right as he was soon selected for the national side.\n\nMaking his Test debut for India against England at Bombay in 1964, he collected four wickets in the match. He was named the \"Indian Cricket\" Cricketer of the Year the same year. Chandrasekhar was influential in setting up India's first victory in England when he picked up six wickets for 38 runs at The Oval in 1971; the bowling was named the \"Indian Bowling performance of the century\" by \"Wisden\" in 2002. \"Wisden\" noted that, \"[Chandrasekhar] was wonderfully accurate for a bowler of his type, and his extra pace made him a formidable proposition even on the sluggish Oval pitch.\" His consistent bowling performances in 1971 earned him being named one of the five \"Wisden\" Cricketers of the Year in 1972.\n\nIn a Test against New Zealand in 1976, Chandrasekhar and Prasanna took 19 wickets and were crucial in setting up India's win. Attributed to him is a famous umpire-directed quote, made during a day of bad decisions in New Zealand after several of his lbw appeals were given not out: \"I know he is bowled, but is he out?\" Chandrasekhar also played a major role in India's victory in Australia in 1977–78.During that series he became the first bowler in test history to register the identical figures in a same test(6/52 in both innings).\n\nChandrasekhar had minimal batting skills, finishing with a Test average of 4.07. He was given a special Gray-Nicholls bat during the 1977–78 Australian tour with a hole in it to commemorate the four ducks he scored, and he has 23 Test ducks to his credit. He also holds the dubious distinction of scoring fewer runs (167) off his bat than wickets (242) taken in Test cricket; the only other cricketer with this distinction over a significant Test career is New Zealand fast bowler Chris Martin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41397798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41397798", "title": "Bezmiara Kadın", "text": "Bezmiara Kadın\n\nBezmiara Kadın ) was a consort of Sultan Abdülmecid I of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nBezmiara's parentage is not mentioned in any of the contemporary chronicles. Her personal name is unknown. She was a Circassian, born 1845, and was the adoptive daughter of Fatimat-uz Zahra Galin Hanım, daughter of Muhammad Arif Pasha and former wife of Prince Ismail Iskander Ali Kamil Pasha, son of Muhammad Ali of Egypt. Fatimat-uz Zahra Galin Hanım named her Bezmara and later she moved to Istanbul. Bezmiara was delivered at the court of the Sultan Abdülmecid, where she was renamed Bezmican and was given private education in the harem department of the Topkapı Palace. Having gone one day to pay a visit to Misirli Hanım, he perceived a women whose beauty made so lively an impression on his heart, that he had only one desire to gain possession of her. She, informed of the passion with which her charms had inspired him, refused to become the Sultan's wife. His passion and his character coming to his aid, Abdülmedcid consented to marry the object of his affections. Their nuptials were celebrated with dazzling magnificence, and a rare thing with an Ottoman sovereign he proved faithful. He not only loved his wife but esteemed her.\n\nIn 1862 she married secondly to Lieutenant general, Tevfik Pasha, a painter and went to Bursa. In 1872 she gave birth to her and Tevlik's Pasha's only daughter, Emine Cavidan Hanım who became one of the well known artists of Istanbul. Emine Cavidan Hanım married Serfiraz Hanım's son, Şehzade Suleiman Selim Efendi and became her daughter-in-law. Bezmara was divorced for a second time and returned to Istanbul. She was married thirdly to the director of Awqaf, Ahmed Pasha. Before Fatimat uz-Zahra Galin Hanım's death in 1858, she also paid a visit to her. She died in Istanbul on 25 January 1909 and is buried near the mausoleum of Sultan Mahmud II, located at Divan Yolu street.\n"}
{"id": "9499962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9499962", "title": "Bob Roseveare", "text": "Bob Roseveare\n\nRobert Arthur (Bob) Roseveare (May 23, 1923 – December 8, 2004) was a codebreaker at Bletchley Park during World War II and later a schoolteacher.\n\nHe was born at Repton, Derbyshire where his father, Sir Martin Roseveare, taught at Repton School. He won a scholarship to Marlborough College, Wiltshire, where he studied from 1936 to 1941. \n\nIn 1942 Roseveare and fellow Marlborough student Nigel Forward were recruited by Gordon Welchman (who also went to Marlborough College) for Hut 6 at Bletchley Park where they worked on German Air Force (Luftwaffe) Enigma messages. Roseveare started in the \"Watch\", then moved to the \"Quatch\", a small backroom group that decoded non-current messages. When Germany surrendered, Bob moved to the Japanese section, until August 1945.\n\nRoseveare met his future wife in Hut 6, Ione Jay, full name Katherine Ione Jay. They married on August 7, 1947, with Derek Taunt as best man. His friend from Marlborough, Nigel Forward, Denis Babbage and three others in Hut 6 also met their wives there. \n\nAfter leaving Bletchley Park, Roseveare took up a scholarship he had won in 1941 to St John's College, Cambridge, and was awarded a degree in mathematics in 1947. In 1948 while touring South Africa and Rhodesia with a mixed Oxford and Cambridge hockey team he accepted a teaching post at Hilton College, Natal. He moved to Michaelhouse, Natal, then St Martin’s School, Johannesburg, then to a multiracial school at Waterford, Swaziland. He was licensed by the Archbishop of Cape Town as a lay reader. \n\nHe returned to England in 1965, where he taught at Epsom College, then (1970–1983) at Uppingham School, Rutland, becoming the head of the Mathematics department in 1980. After retiring in 1983 he taught at the Haberdashers’ Monmouth School for Girls for a year.\n\nHe was keen on the operas of Gilbert and Sullivan, and on the history of the Rosevear (also spelled Roseveare or Rosevere) family from Cornwall, England, starting about AD 1500 in the hamlet of Rescorla near Luxulyan. Between 1985 and 1990 Bob published seven booklets on the Roseveare family, which have been updated and reissued as one book, with information on 14,779 descendants throughout the world. His sister Helen Roseveare was a medical missionary in the Congo for 20 years. \n\nHe died aged 81 at Uppingham on 8 December 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "197780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197780", "title": "Budai", "text": "Budai\n\nBudai, Hotei or Pu-Tai (; ; ) is a semi-historical monk as well as deity who was introduced into the Zen Buddhist pantheon. He allegedly lived around the 10th century in the Wuyue kingdom. His name literally means \"Cloth Sack\", and refers to the bag that he is conventionally depicted as carrying as he wanders aimlessly. His jolly nature, humorous personality, and eccentric lifestyle distinguishes him from most Buddhist masters or figures. He is almost always shown smiling or laughing, hence his nickname in Chinese, the \"Laughing Buddha\" (). The main textual evidence pointing to Budai resides in a collection of Zen Buddhist monks’ biographies known as the \"Ching te chuan teng lu\", also known as The Transmission of the Lamp.\n\nBudai has origins centered around cult worship and local legend. He is traditionally depicted as a fat, bald monk wearing a simple robe. He carries his few possessions in a cloth sack, being poor but content. He would excitingly entertain the adoring children that followed him and was known for patting his large belly happily. His figure appears throughout Chinese culture as a representation of both contentment and abundance. Budai attracted the townspeople around him as he was able to predict people’s fortunes and even weather patterns. The wandering monk was often inclined to sleep anywhere he came to, even outside, for his mystical powers could ward off the bitter colds of snow and his body was left unaffected. A recovered death note dated to 916 A.D., which the monk himself wrote, claims that he is an incarnation of the Maitreya, The Buddha of the Future. \n\nBudai was one of several \"uncommitted saints\" (C: sansheng) that became incorporated into the Zen Pantheon. Similar \"eccentric\" figures from the lamp histories were never officially inducted or appropriated into the Chan patriarchal line. Instead, these obscure figures represented the \"special transmission\" that occurred during the early to mid 12th century. This transmission did not rely on patriarchal lineage for legitimacy, but instead used the peculiar personalities and qualities of various folkloric figures to illustrate the Chan tradition's new commitment to the idea of \"awakening\" and the propagation of Chan to a larger congregation. The Chan Masters, Dahui Zonggao (1089–1163) and Hongzhi Zhengjue (dates), were both leaders in the initial merging of local legend and Buddhist tradition. They hoped the induction of likeable and odd figures would attract all types of people to the Chan tradition, no matter their gender, social background, or complete understanding of the dharma and patriarchal lineage. Bernard Faure summarizes this merging of local legend and Chan tradition by explaining, \"One strategy in Chan for domesticating the occult was to transform thaumaturges into tricksters by playing down their occult powers and stressing their thus world aspect...\" The movement allocated the figures as religious props and channeled their extraordinary charismas into the lens of the Chan pantheon in order to appeal to a larger population. Ultimately, Budai was revered from both a folkloric standpoint as a strange, wandering vagabond of the people as well as from his newfound personage within the context of the Chan tradition as a 'mendicant priest' who brought abundance, fortune, and joy to all he encountered with the help of his mystical \"cloth sack\" bag.\n\nAs Zen Buddhism was transmitted to Japan around the 13th century, the devout monastics and laymen of the area utilized figure painting to portray the characters central to this \"awakening\" period of Zen art. Many of the eccentric personalities that were inducted into the Zen tradition like Budai were previously wrapped up in the established culture and folklore of the Japanese people. The assimilation and reapplication of these wondrous charismas to the Zen pantheon assisted in the expansion of the Zen tradition.\nBudai is almost always depicted with his \"cloth sack\" that looks like a large bag. The bag serves as a prominent motif within the context of Zen Buddhism as it represents abundance, prosperity, and contentment. Ink paintings such as these attributed to Budai often had an inscription and seal that signaled to high ranking officials. For example, \"Budai and Jiang Mohe\" was inscribed by Chusi Fanqi, who was closely related to Song Lian (1310–1381) and Wei Su (1295–1372).\n\nAs the images demonstrate, Budai is most jubilant when in the presence of others, especially children. When depicted with other gods in \"the Seven Lucky Gods\", Budai maintains a solemn or even depressed countenance. Budai's round figure comes into practical use through the sculpting of the incense box (18th century) that splits the monk's body into two halves. The newer images such as \"Hotei and Children Carrying Lanterns\" (19th century) employs much more color, dramatization of physical features, and detail than the older pieces such as \"Hotei\" from Mokuan Rein (1336) that employs much more wispy and heavily contrasting outlines of his figure with no color or assumed setting.\n\nAngida was one of the original Eighteen Arhats. According to legend, Angida was a talented Indian snake catcher whose aim was to catch venomous snakes to prevent them from biting passers-by. Angida would also remove the snake's venomous fangs and release them. Due to his kindness, he was able to attain bodhi.\n\nIn Chinese art, Angida is sometimes portrayed as Budai, being rotund, laughing, and carrying a bag.\n\nIn the Western World, Budai is often mistaken for Gautama Buddha, and thus is nicknamed the \"Fat Buddha.\"\n\nIn Thailand, Budai is sometimes confused with another similar monk widely respected in Thailand, \"Phra Sangkajai\" or \"Sangkachai\" (). Phra Sangkajai (), a Thai rendering of Kaccayana, was an arhat during the time of the Buddha. Buddha praised Phra Sangkachai for his excellence in explaining sophisticated dharma (or dhamma) in an easily and correctly understandable manner. Phra Sangkajai (Maha Kaccana) also composed the Madhupinadika Sutra (Madhupindika Sutta MN 18).\n\nOne tale of the Thai folklore relates that he was so handsome that once even a man wanted him for a wife. To avoid a similar situation, Phra Sangkadchai decided to transform himself into a fat monk. Another tale says he was so attractive that angels and men often compared him with the Buddha. He considered this inappropriate, so disguised himself in an unpleasantly fat body.\n\nAlthough both Budai and Phra Sangkachai may be found in both Thai and Chinese temples, Phra Sangkachai is found more often in Thai temples, and Budai in Chinese temples. Two points to distinguish them from one another are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2071664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071664", "title": "Cary Stayner", "text": "Cary Stayner\n\nCary Anthony Stayner (born August 13, 1961) is an American serial killer. Stayner's early life was marked by the abduction of his younger brother, Steven by sex offender Kenneth Parnell. \n\nHe was convicted of the murders of four women between February and July 1999: Carole Sund, her teenage daughter Juli Sund and their teenage traveling companion Silvina Pelosso, and Yosemite Institute naturalist Joie Ruth Armstrong. The murders occurred in Mariposa County, California, near Yosemite National Park. Cary Stayner was sentenced to death for the four murders, and as of September 2018 remains on death row at San Quentin Penitentiary in California.\n\nStayner was born and raised Mormon in Merced, California. His younger brother, Steven, was kidnapped by child molester Kenneth Parnell in 1972, when Cary was 11, and held captive for more than seven years before escaping and being reunited with his family. Cary Stayner later said that he felt neglected while his parents grieved over the loss of Steven.\n\nWhen Steven escaped from Parnell and returned home in 1980, he received massive media attention; a true crime book and TV movie, both titled \"I Know My First Name is Steven\", were made about the ordeal. Steven died in a motorcycle accident in 1989. The following year Stayner's uncle Jesse, with whom he was living at the time, was murdered; Stayner later claimed that his uncle molested him when he was 11.\n\nStayner is reported to have attempted suicide in 1991, and was arrested in 1997 for possession of marijuana and methamphetamine, although these charges were eventually dropped.\n\nIn 1997, Stayner was hired as a handyman at the Cedar Lodge motel in El Portal, just outside the Highway 140 Arch Rock entrance to Yosemite National Park. Between February and July 1999, he murdered two women and two teenagers: Carole Sund; her daughter, 15-year-old Juli Sund; their travel companion, 16-year-old Argentine exchange student Silvina Pelosso; and Yosemite Institute employee Joie Ruth Armstrong, 26, a naturalist. The first two victims, Carole Sund and Silvina Pelosso, were found in the trunk of the charred remains of Carole's Pontiac rental car. The bodies were burned beyond recognition and were identified using dental records. A note was sent to police with a hand-drawn map indicating the location of the third victim, Juli Sund. The top of the note read, \"We had fun with this one.\" Investigators went to the location depicted on the map and found the remains of Juli, whose throat had been cut.\n\nDetectives began interviewing employees of the Cedar Lodge motel where the first three victims had been staying just before their deaths. One of those employees was Cary Stayner, but he was not considered a suspect at that point because he had no criminal history and remained calm during the police interview.\n\nWhen the decapitated body of the fourth victim Joie Ruth Armstrong was found, eyewitnesses said they saw a blue 1979 International Scout parked outside the cabin where Armstrong was staying. Detectives traced this vehicle to Stayner. This caused Stayner to become the prime suspect in the case. FBI agents John Boles and Jeff Rinek found Stayner staying at Laguna del Sol nudist resort in Wilton, where he was arrested. His vehicle yielded evidence linking him to Joie Armstrong. During his interrogation, Stayner confessed to the four murders as well as to sending the map for finding Juli Sund's body.\n\nStayner claimed after his arrest that he had fantasized about murdering women since he was seven years old, long before the abduction of his brother.\n\nStayner pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. His lawyers claimed that the Stayner family had a history of sexual abuse and mental illness, manifesting itself not only in the murders, but also his obsessive-compulsive disorder, and request to be provided with child pornography in return for his confession. Dr. Jose Arturo Silva testified that Stayner had mild autism, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and paraphilia. Stayner was nevertheless found sane and convicted of four counts of first degree murder by a jury on August 27, 2002.\n\nIn 2002, during the penalty phase of his trial, he was sentenced to death and thereafter entered housing in the Adjustment Center on death row at San Quentin Penitentiary in California. Stayner remains on death row as of September 2018 though there have been no executions in California since a 2006 court ruling finding flaws in the administration of capital punishment in the state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40015187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40015187", "title": "Ceaușescu's speech of 21 August 1968", "text": "Ceaușescu's speech of 21 August 1968\n\nCeaușescu's speech of 21 August 1968 was a public address by Nicolae Ceaușescu, General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party and President of the State Council of Romania, strongly condemning the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. On the night of 20–21 August 1968, five Warsaw Pact nations - the Soviet Union, Bulgaria, Hungary, East Germany, and Poland - invaded Czechoslovakia in an effort to quell the reformist ideology of Alexander Dubček, the First Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia.\n\nOn 21 August, in what became his most famous speech, Ceaușescu boldly denounced the invasion in a public address before 100,000 people in Palace Square in Bucharest, and declared that it was a \"grave error and constituted a serious danger to peace in Europe and for the prospects of world socialism.\" His address was perceived as a bold gesture of disobedience to the Soviet Union both at home and abroad. The speech was part of the post-1956 efforts of the communist elite in Bucharest to emancipate their Party from Moscow.\n\nCeaușescu's response consolidated Romania's independent voice in the next two decades, especially after Ceaușescu encouraged the population to take up arms in order to meet any similar maneuver in the country: he received an enthusiastic initial response, with many people, who were by no means communist, willing to enroll in the newly formed paramilitary Patriotic Guards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "121728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=121728", "title": "Claude Joseph Rouget de Lisle", "text": "Claude Joseph Rouget de Lisle\n\nClaude Joseph Rouget de Lisle (), sometimes spelled de l'Isle or de Lile (10 May 1760 – 26 June 1836), was a French army officer of the French Revolutionary Wars. He is known for writing the words and music of the \"Chant de guerre pour l'armée du Rhin\" in 1792, which would later be known as \"La Marseillaise\" and become the French national anthem.\n\nRouget de Lisle was born at Lons-le-Saunier, reputedly on a market day. His parents lived in the neighbouring village of Montaigu. A plaque was placed at the precise spot of his birth and a statue erected in the town's center in 1882. He was the eldest son of Claude Ignace Rouget (5 April 1735 – 6 August 1792) at Orgelet and Jeanne Madeleine Gaillande (2 July 1734 – 20 March 1811).\n\nHe enlisted into the army as an engineer and attained the rank of captain. A royalist, like his father, he refused to take the oath of allegiance to the new constitution. Rouget de Lisle was cashiered and thrown into prison in 1793, narrowly escaping the guillotine. He was freed during the Thermidorian Reaction and retired to Montague.\n\nThe song that has immortalized him, \"La Marseillaise\", was composed at Strasbourg, where Rouget de Lisle was garrisoned in April 1792. France had just declared war on Austria, and the mayor of Strasbourg, baron Philippe-Frédéric de Dietrich, held a dinner for the officers of the garrison, at which he lamented that France had no national anthem. Rouget de Lisle returned to his quarters and wrote the words in a fit of patriotic excitement. The piece was at first called \"Chant de guerre pour l'armée du Rhin\" (\"War Song for the Army of the Rhine\") and only received its name of \"Marseillaise\" from its adoption by the Provençal volunteers whom Barbaroux introduced into Paris and who were prominent in the storming of the Tuileries Palace on 10 August 1792.\n\nAfter the war, Rouget de Lisle wrote a few other songs of the same kind as the \"Marseillaise\" and in 1825 he published \"Chants français\" (\"French Songs\") in which he set to music fifty songs by various authors. His \"Essais en vers et en prose\" (\"Essays in Verse and Prose\", 1797) contains the \"Marseillaise\"; a prose tale \"Adelaide et Monville\" of the sentimental kind; and some occasional poems. He returned to public life after the July Revolution; Louis Philippe awarded him the Legion of Honour.\n\nRouget de Lisle died in poverty in Choisy-le-Roi, Val de Marne. His ashes were transferred from Choisy-le-Roi cemetery to the Invalides on 14 July 1915, during World War I.\n\n"}
{"id": "20737863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20737863", "title": "David de Coninck", "text": "David de Coninck\n\nDavid de Coninck or David de Koninck, also known as Rammelaer (ca. 1644, Antwerp – after 1701, probably Brussels) was a Flemish painter who specialised in still lifes and landscapes with animals and hunting scenes. Recognised as a leading animal painter, de Coninck was able to develop an international career which caused him to work for extended periods in Paris, Rome and Vienna.\n\nHe was apprenticed to Pieter Boel in 1659. Pieter Boel was an accomplished animal painter who had been trained by Jan Fyt, the leading Flemish animal painter of the mid 17th century. De Coninck became a master in the Antwerp Guild of Saint Luke in 1663.\nHe moved to Paris where he worked with the prominent Flemish animal painter Nicasius Bernaerts for several years, probably until 1669. Nicasius Bernaerts was an influential Flemish animal painter who worked for the royal court and was a member of the Royal Academy of Painting and Sculpture in Paris.\n\nDe Coninck subsequently travelled to Rome where he lived from 1671 to 1694. Here he became a member of the Bentvueghels, an association of mainly Dutch and Flemish artists working in Rome, and took the nickname (the so-called 'bent name') 'Rammelaer' (which means 'rattle'). His name was inscribed in a niche in the Santa Costanza church in Rome where the Bentvueghels used to congregate.\n\nOn his return to the north he stayed for a time in Vienna. He returned to Antwerp in 1687. He moved to Brussels at some time between 1699 and 1701. The last record of de Coninck is his registration as a became a member of the Brussels Guild of Saint Luke in 1701. It is not known when or when he died.\n\nDe Coninck painted still lifes, including fruit still lifes and hunting still lifes, landscapes with hunting scenes and architectural paintings. De Coninck's stylistic development is unclear and it is difficult to date his paintings with any precision. It is possible that early in his career he painted fruit still lifes, since there is a record that in 1668 two fruit still lifes made by a 'Koninck' were exported to Vienna.\n\nDe Coninck's teacher Pieter Boel was a pupil of Jan Fyt, the leading Flemish animal painter of the mid 17th century. This explains the influence of Jan Fyt's style on de Coninck's work. Some works of David de Coninck and Pieter Boel are still attributed to Fyt. As David de Coninck rarely signed his works, which are generally of a high quality and similar style they have often been confused with the works of Boel, Fyt and even Frans Snijders, the leading Flemish animal painter of the first half of the 17th century.\n\nHis fruit still lifes of fruits and flowers painted on large canvases are complex Baroque compositions, which often include animals in an outdoor setting. Large, Italianate fruit still lifes in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Nantes can likely also be attributed to de Coninck. An example of his fruit still lifes is the \"Still life of fruit and flowers with animals\" (Musée Fesch), which shows a still life with fruits and flowers near an outdoor fountain and a landscape in the distance. A monkey, two rabbits and a parrot enliven the painting.\nDe Coninck was an accomplished painter of scenes with animals, mainly birds, in a garden or against a landscape background. He painted lively action scenes of fighting cats and dogs, packs of dogs attacking game and birds of prey or cats attacking birds or poultry.\n\nDe Coninck's work influenced other artists in Italy such as Baldassare De Caro, Giovanni Crivelli (named 'il Crivellino'), Nicola Malinconico, Franz Werner von Tamm and Jacob Xavier Vermoelen.\n"}
{"id": "36349359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36349359", "title": "Erysichthon of Thessaly", "text": "Erysichthon of Thessaly\n\nIn Greek mythology, Erysichthon ( Ἐρυσίχθων ὁ Θεσσαλός 'earth-tearer') (also anglicised as Erisichthon), son of Triopas, was a King of Thessaly. He was sometimes called Aethon.\n\nErysichthon once ordered all trees in the sacred grove of Demeter to be cut down. One huge oak was covered with votive wreaths, a symbol of every prayer Demeter had granted, and so the men refused to cut it down. Erysichthon grabbed an axe and cut it down himself, killing a dryad nymph in the process. The nymph's dying words were a curse on Erysichthon.\n\nDemeter responded to the nymph's curse and punished him by entreating Limos, the spirit of unrelenting and insatiable hunger, to place herself in his stomach. Food acted like fuel on a fire: The more he ate, the hungrier he got. Erysichthon sold all his possessions to buy food, but was still hungry. At last he sold his own daughter Mestra into slavery. Mestra was freed from slavery by her former lover Poseidon, who gave her the gift of shape-shifting into any creature at will to escape her bonds. Erysichthon used her shape-shifting ability to sell her numerous times to make money to feed himself, but no amount of food was enough. Eventually, Erysichthon ate himself in hunger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "980845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980845", "title": "Fareed Zakaria", "text": "Fareed Zakaria\n\nFareed Rafiq Zakaria (; born January 20, 1964) is an Indian-American journalist, political scientist and author. He is the host of CNN's \"Fareed Zakaria GPS\" and writes a weekly column for \"The Washington Post.\" He has been a columnist for \"Newsweek\", editor of \"Newsweek International\", and an editor at large of \"Time.\"\n\nZakaria was born in Mumbai, India, to a Konkani Muslim family. His father, Rafiq Zakaria, was a politician associated with the Indian National Congress and an Islamic theologian. His mother, Fatima Zakaria, was his father's second wife. She was for a time the editor of the \"Sunday Times of India\".\n\nZakaria attended the Cathedral and John Connon School in Mumbai. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts from Yale University in 1986, where he was president of the Yale Political Union, editor in chief of the \"Yale Political Monthly,\" a member of the Scroll and Key society, and a member of the Party of the Right. He later gained a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University in 1993, where he studied under Samuel P. Huntington and Stanley Hoffmann, as well as international relations theorist Robert Keohane.\n\nAfter directing a research project on American foreign policy at Harvard, Zakaria became the managing editor of \"Foreign Affairs\" in 1992, at the age of 28. Under his guidance, the magazine was redesigned and moved from a quarterly to a bimonthly schedule. He served as an adjunct professor at Columbia University, where he taught a seminar on international relations. In October 2000, he was named editor of \"Newsweek International\", and became a weekly columnist for \"Newsweek\". In August 2010 he moved to \"Time\" to serve as editor at-large and columnist. He writes a weekly column for \"The Washington Post\" and is a contributing editor for the Atlantic Media group, which includes \"The Atlantic Monthly\".\n\nHe has published on a variety of subjects for \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The New Republic.\" For a brief period, he was a wine columnist for the web magazine \"Slate.\"\n\nZakaria is the author of \"From Wealth to Power: The Unusual Origins of America's World Role\" (Princeton, 1998), \"The Future of Freedom\" (Norton, 2003), \"The Post-American World\" (2008), and \"In Defense of a Liberal Education\" (Norton, 2015). He co-edited \"The American Encounter: The United States and the Making of the Modern World\" (Basic Books) with James F. Hoge Jr. His last three books have both been New York Times bestsellers and The Future of Freedom and The Post American World have both been translated into more than 25 languages. In 2011 an updated and expanded edition of \"The Post-American World\" (\"Release 2.0\") was published.\n\nZakaria was a news analyst with ABC's \"This Week with George Stephanopoulos\" (2002–2007) where he was a member of the Sunday morning roundtable. He hosted the weekly TV news show, \"Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria\" on PBS (2005–08). His weekly show, \"Fareed Zakaria GPS\" (\"Global Public Square\"), premiered on CNN in June 2008. It airs twice weekly in the United States and four times weekly on CNN International, reaching over 200 million homes. It celebrated its 10th anniversary on June 5, 2018, as announced on the weekly foreign affairs show on CNN.\n\nIn 2013 he became one of the producers for the HBO series \"Vice\", for which he serves as a consultant.\n\nZakaria, a member of the Berggruen Institute, additionally features as an interlocutor for the annual Berggruen Prize.\n\nZakaria self-identifies as a \"centrist\", though he has been described variously as a political liberal, a conservative, a moderate, or a radical centrist. George Stephanopoulos said of him in 2003, \"He's so well versed in politics, and he can't be pigeonholed. I can't be sure whenever I turn to him where he's going to be coming from or what he's going to say.\" Zakaria wrote in February 2008 that \"Conservatism grew powerful in the 1970s and 1980s because it proposed solutions appropriate to the problems of the age\", adding that \"a new world requires new thinking\". He supported Barack Obama during the 2008 Democratic primary campaign and also for president. In January 2009 \"Forbes\" referred to Zakaria as one of the 25 most influential liberals in the American media. Zakaria has stated that he tries not to be devoted to any type of ideology, saying \"I feel that's part of my job... which is not to pick sides but to explain what I think is happening on the ground. I can't say, 'This is my team and I'm going to root for them no matter what they do.'\"\nAs a student at Yale University in the mid 1980s, Zakaria opposed anti-apartheid divestment and argued that Yale should not divest from its holdings in South Africa.\n\nZakaria \"may have more intellectual range and insights than any other public thinker in the West,\" wrote David Shribman in \"The Boston Globe\". In 2003, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger told \"New York Magazine\" that Zakaria “has a first-class mind and likes to say things that run against conventional wisdom.” However, in 2011, the editors of \"The New Republic\" included him in a list of \"over-rated thinkers\" and commented, \"There's something suspicious about a thinker always so perfectly in tune with the moment.\"\n\nZakaria's books include \"The Future of Freedom\" and \"The Post-American World\". \"The Future of Freedom\" argues that what is defined as democracy in the Western world is actually \"liberal democracy\", a combination of constitutional liberalism and participatory politics. Zakaria points out that protection of liberty and the rule of law actually preceded popular elections by centuries in Western Europe, and that when countries only adopt elections without the protection of liberty, they create \"illiberal democracy\". \"The Post-American World\", published in 2008 before the financial crisis, argued that the most important trend of modern times is the \"rise of the rest,\" the economic emergence of China, India, Brazil, and other countries.\n\nFrom 2006, Zakaria has also criticized what he views as \"fear-based\" American policies employed not only in combating terrorism, but also in enforcing immigration and drug smuggling laws, and has argued in favor of decriminalization of drugs and citizenship for presently illegal immigrants to the United States of all backgrounds. Referring to his views on Iran, Leon Wieseltier described Zakaria as a \"consummate spokesman for the shibboleths of the White House and for the smooth new worldliness, the at-the-highest-levels impatience with democracy and human rights as central objectives of our foreign policy, that now characterize advanced liberal thinking about America's role in the world.\"\n\nBefore the 2008 U.S. presidential election, Zakaria endorsed Barack Obama on his CNN program. In May 2011 \"The New York Times\" reported that President Obama has \"sounded out prominent journalists like Fareed Zakaria ... and Thomas L. Friedman\" concerning Middle East issues.\nAfter the 9/11 attacks, in a \"Newsweek \"cover essay, \"Why They Hate Us,\" Zakaria argued that Islamic extremism was not fundamentally rooted in Islam, nor could it be claimed a reaction to American foreign policy. He located the problem in the political-social-economic stagnation of Arab societies, which then bred an extreme, religious opposition. He portrayed Osama bin Laden as one in a long line of extremists who used religion to justify mass murder. Zakaria argued for an intergenerational effort to create more open and dynamic societies in Arab countries, and thereby helping Islam enter the modern world.\n\nZakaria initially supported the 2003 invasion of Iraq. He said at the time, \"The place is so dysfunctional ... any stirring of the pot is good. America's involvement in the region is for the good.\" He argued for a United Nations–sanctioned operation with a much larger force—approximately 400,000 troops—than was actually employed by the administration of President George W. Bush. However, he soon became a critic. In addition to objecting to the war plan, he frequently criticized the way the Bush administration was running the occupation of Iraq. He argued against the disbanding of the army and bureaucracy yet supported the de-Baathification programs. He continued to argue that a functioning democracy in Iraq would be a powerful new model for Arab politics but suggested that an honest accounting would have to say that the costs of the invasion had been much higher than the benefits. He opposed the Iraq surge in March 2007, writing that it would work militarily but not politically, still leaving Iraq divided among its three communities. Instead he advocated that Washington push hard for a political settlement between the Sunni Arabs, Shia Arabs, and Kurds, and begin a reduction in forces to only 60,000 troops. He later wrote that the surge \"succeeded\" militarily but that it did not produce a political compact and that Iraq remains divided along sectarian lines, undermining its unity, democracy, and legacy.\n\nZakaria supported the April 2017 U.S. missile strike against a Syrian government–controlled airbase. Zakaria praised President Trump's strike and said it was the moment \"[he] became president of the United States.”\n\nZakaria has been nominated five times for the National Magazine Award, and won it once, for his columns and commentary. His show has won a Peabody Award and been nominated for several Emmys. He was conferred \"India Abroad\" Person of the Year 2008 award on 20 March 2009, in New York. Filmmaker Mira Nair, who won the award for year 2007, honored her successor.\n\nHe has received honorary degrees from Harvard University, Brown University, Duke University, Johns Hopkins University, the University of Miami, Oberlin College, Bates College, and the University of Oklahoma among others. He was the 2000 Annual Orator of the Philomathean Society of the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn January 2010, Zakaria was given the Padma Bhushan award by the Indian government for his contribution to the field of journalism.\n\nHe serves on the board of the Council on Foreign Relations, the New America Foundation, Columbia University's International House, City College of New York's Colin Powell School for Civic and Global Leadership, and Shakespeare and Company. He was a trustee of Yale Corporation, the governing body of Yale University and the Trilateral Commission.\n\nIn his 2006 book \"State of Denial\", journalist Bob Woodward of \"The Washington Post\" described a 29 November 2001, meeting of Middle East analysts, including Zakaria, that was convened at the request of the then Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz. According to a story in \"The New York Times\" on Woodward's book, the Wolfowitz meeting ultimately produced a report for President George W. Bush that supported the subsequent invasion of Iraq. Zakaria, however, later told \"The New York Times\" that he had briefly attended what he thought was \"a brainstorming session\". He was not told that a report would be prepared for the President, and in fact, the report did not have his name on it. The \"Times\" issued a correction.\n\nIn 2010, in protest at the Anti-Defamation League's opposition to the building of the Park51 mosque and Islamic cultural center two blocks from the World Trade Center site, Zakaria returned the Hubert H. Humphrey First Amendment Freedoms Prize awarded to him by the ADL in 2005. He declared that the ADL's opposition to the mosque meant that he could not \"in good conscience keep [the award] anymore\". In support of his decision, he stated that the larger issue in the controversy is freedom of religion in America, even while acknowledging that he is not a religious person. He also wrote that a \"moderate, mainstream version of Islam\" is essential to winning the war on terror, and that moves like the ADL's make it harder for such a moderate version of Islam to emerge and thrive. On 8 August 2010, edition of \"Fareed Zakaria GPS\", Zakaria addressed the issue, stating that in returning his award, he had hoped that the ADL would reconsider their stance.\n\nZakaria was suspended for a week in August 2012 while \"Time\" and CNN investigated an allegation of plagiarism involving an August 20 column on gun control with similarities to a \"New Yorker\" article by Jill Lepore. In a statement Zakaria apologized, saying that he had made \"a terrible mistake.\" Six days later, after a review of his research notes and years of prior commentary, \"Time\" and CNN reinstated Zakaria. \"Time\" described the incident as \"isolated\" and \"unintentional\"; and CNN \"... found nothing that merited continuing the suspension...\"\n\nThe controversy was reignited in September 2014, when \"Esquire\" and \"The Week\" magazines reported on allegations made in pseudonymous blogs. \"Newsweek\" initially added a blanket warning to its archive of articles penned by Zakaria, but after an investigation of his several hundred columns for the magazine, found improper citation in only seven. Similarly, after allegations surfaced on Twitter regarding the originality of one of Zakaria's columns for \"Slate\", the online magazine appended a notice to the article indicating that, \"This piece does not meet Slate’s editorial standards, having failed to properly attribute quotations and information...\". However, \"Slate\" Editor-in-Chief Jacob Weisberg, who had, months before, exchanged barbs with one of the aforementioned anonymous bloggers on Twitter in defense of Zakaria, maintained his original position that what Zakaria did was not plagiarism.\n\nCorrections to selected Zakaria columns were also issued by \"The Washington Post\", which had responded to the initial allegations by telling the \"Poynter\" media industry news site that it would investigate. Later on the same day, November 10, the \"Post\" said that it had found \"problematic\" sourcing in five Zakaria columns, \"and will likely note the lack of attribution in archived editions of the articles.\" However, editors at \"The Washington Post\" and \"Newsweek \"denied that Zakaria's errors constituted plagiarism.\n\nZakaria is a naturalized American citizen. He currently resides in New York City. Zakaria is a self-described secular and nonpracticing Muslim. He added: \"My views on faith are complicated—somewhere between deism and agnosticism. I am completely secular in my outlook.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48059687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48059687", "title": "Flower Backhouse, Countess of Clarendon", "text": "Flower Backhouse, Countess of Clarendon\n\nFlower Backhouse (died 17 July 1700) was an 18th-century English noblewoman, notable as First Lady of the Bedchamber to Queen Anne. She was Countess of Clarendon from 1670 until her death.\nShe was the daughter of the philosopher William Backhouse and his wife, the former Ann Richards. (Other sources say she was the daughter of Sir John Backhouse by his wife, the former Flower Henshaw.) \n\nShe was married three times, her first marriage being to William Bishop of South Warnborough, sometime prior to 1662. Following Bishop's death, she married secondly her father's cousin, Sir William Backhouse, Bart., at St Andrew Holborn on 23 November 1662; Backhouse died in 1669. From her second husband she inherited nine shares in the New River Company. \n\nShe married her third husband, Henry Hyde, Lord Cornbury, on 19 October 1670, as his second wife. This gained Clarendon the manor and house of Swallowfield Park, Berkshire. Hyde became Earl of Clarendon in 1676.\n\nClarendon was brother to Queen Anne's mother Anne Hyde and sometime after her third marriage Backhouse became Anne's First Lady of the Bedchamber. However, Backhouse was hated by Anne's best friend Sarah Churchill, who called her \"the madwoman\" and may have brought about Anne's later dislike of Backhouse.\n"}
{"id": "7797553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7797553", "title": "Four Lords of the Warring States", "text": "Four Lords of the Warring States\n\nThe Four Lords of the Warring States were four powerful aristocrats of the late Warring States period of Chinese history who exerted a strong influence on the politics of their respective states in the third century BCE.\n\nDuring this time, the Zhou king was a mere figurehead, and seven states led by aristocratic families competed for real power. Although they were not themselves monarchs, four aristocrats stood out because of their tremendous military power and wealth: Lord Mengchang (d. 279) of Qi, Lord Pingyuan (d. 251) of Zhao, Lord Xinling (d. 243) of Wei and Lord Chunshen (d. 238) of Chu.\n\nAll four were renowned for their activity in the politics of their era as well as being the persona of their state respectively at the time; they also wielded influence via the cultivation and housing of many talented house-guests, who often included learned men and tacticians. As such, they came to be the most prominent patrons of the \"shi\" () or scholar-knights, stimulating the intellectual life of the time. Their prestige became the inspiration for Lü Buwei when he created his academic analogue in Qin.\n\nThese four lords are paralleled in some books of \"the Records of the Grand Historian\", the first of the Twenty-Four Histories of China.\n\nIn \"the Biographies of Lord Pingyuan and Yu Qing,\"\n\nAt this time, [in addition to Lord Pingyuan in Zhao,] in Qi lived Mengchang, in Wei Xinling, and in Chu Chunshen. They competed to invite \"shi\" (talents).\nIn \"the Biography of Lord Chunshen,\"\n\nLord Chunshen now stood as the prime minister of the Kingdom of Chu. At this time, in Qi lived Lord Mengchang, in Zhao Lord Pingyuan, and in Wei Lord Xinling. They competed to humble themselves before \"shi\" (talents) [to hire them], invited brilliant guests, and tried to defeat each other. They sustained their states and held the real power.\nLord Mengchang was an aristocrat of the State of Qi. He was born Tian Wen, son of Tian Ying and the grandson of King Wei of Qi. He succeeded his father's fief in Xue.\n\nBorn Zhao Sheng, he was a son of King Wuling of Zhao, brother of King Huiwen and uncle to King Xiaocheng. During his life, he was thrice appointed the Prime Minister of the State of Zhao.\n\nZhao Sheng's fief was the City of Dongwu. Lord Pingyuan was his title, and some of his famous retainers included the philosophers Xun Kuang and Gongsun Long, the Yin and Yang master Zou Yan, and the diplomat Mao Sui.\n\nBorn as Wei Wuji, he was the son of King Zhao of the State of Wei and younger half-brother to King Anxi of Wei. In 277, King Anxi assigned Wei Wuji the fief of Xinling.\n\nAt the height of his career, he was the supreme commander of the armed forces of the Kingdom of Wei. After stepping down, Lord Xinling became dispirited and died in 243.\n\nBorn Huang Xie, he was originally a government official working for King Qingxiang of Chu, and later followed Crown Prince Wan when he spent ten years as a hostage in the Kingdom of Qin.\n\nAfter the death of King Qingxiang, Prince Wan and Huang Xie returned to the Kingdom of Chu. Prince Wan was enthroned as King Kaolie of Chu, while Huang Xie was appointed Prime Minister and received the title of Lord Chunshen. For the next 25 years, Lord Chunshen remained Prime Minister of Chu, until his assassination by Li Yuan in 238.\n\n"}
{"id": "36586489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36586489", "title": "Guo Weiyang", "text": "Guo Weiyang\n\nGuo Weiyang (; born February 1, 1988) is a Chinese gymnast. He competed for the national team at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the Men's artistic team all-around, where they won the gold medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "3189813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3189813", "title": "Herman Finkers", "text": "Herman Finkers\n\nHermenegildus Felix Victor Maria \"Herman\" Finkers [ɦɛrmeːnə'ɣɪɫdəs 'feːlɪks 'vɪktɔr ma'riaː \"'ɦɛrmɑn\" 'fɪŋkərs] (born December 9, 1954 in Almelo, Overijssel) is a Dutch comedian, who is well known in the Netherlands for his friendly, dry-witted humour and his ambiguous style of storytelling. In his way of telling a story the moral should never be in the way of a good joke or pun. His humour is never at the expense of others, except his brother Wilfried Finkers, who is frequently the target of jokes. Wilfried Finkers co-wrote material and occasionally appeared in his brother's shows. Herman Finkers temporarily stopped performing in 2000, and soon afterwards he was diagnosed with a form of leukaemia. He was given an estimate of 10 to 15 years of life left. On August 5, 2006 a Fuchsia was named after him. In 2007 he started playing in theatres again, with a new show called \"Na de Pauze\" (After the Break). On 31 December 2015 he gave the traditional New Year's Eve performance (\"Oudejaarsconference\") on Dutch television, in which he remarked that the chance that he would become 90 years old was statistically larger than the chance that he died three years ago.\n\nFinkers is a Catholic.\n\nFinkers has a strong love for the Tweants dialect. He has translated a number of his shows into Tweants Low Saxon, which is his mother tongue. He also wrote and directed two short animation films, which were completely in Tweants: \"Kroamschudd'n in Mariaparochie\" (\"Baby shower in Mary's Parish\", which tells the story of the birth of Christ in a setting of Twente) and his comic interpretation of William Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\", the former of which is shown annually around Christmas on regional television. After his retirement from theatre, Finkers played a role in the first soap series in Tweants: \"Van Jonge Leu en Oale Groond\" (Of Young People and Old Ground).\nFor his efforts to promote the Tweants dialect he received the Johanna van Buuren prize.\n\n\n\nMost of his theatre shows were released on VHS and DVD, and several years ago a box set of all these DVDs was made available.\n\n"}
{"id": "9007352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9007352", "title": "Hugh Feeney", "text": "Hugh Feeney\n\nHugh Feeney (born 1951) was a volunteer of the Provisional Irish Republican Army who, together with Dolours Price and Marian Price, organised the car bombings of the Old Bailey and Scotland Yard on March 8, 1973. He and ten members of his 11-man active service unit (ASU) were apprehended attempting to board a flight to Ireland shortly after the bombs were discovered.\n\nFeeney was convicted on 14 November 1973 and sentenced to life imprisonment for each of the four bombing charges against him, which were to run concurrently. \n\nThe other members of his group were sentenced to life imprisonment as well as an additional twenty years. Feeney and other members of the group were incarcerated in Brixton Prison, and participated in a 205-day hunger strike with the goal of being transferred closer to their homes in Ulster. Feeney and the other hunger strikers were force-fed by British authorities for 167 days of their strike. \n\nIn May 1974, Feeney was one of a group of four prisoners whose transfer out of Brixton was demanded anonymously in exchange for the return of $19.2 million in stolen art. On 4 June 1974, the IRA kidnapped John Hely-Hutchinson, 7th Earl of Donoughmore and his wife in an unsuccessful attempt to exchange them for the release of Feeney, the Prices, and Gerry Kelly. The prisoners ended their hunger strike on 7 June 1974. Feeney was transferred to Long Kesh prison soon after the hunger strike ended.\n\nDuring this period he and Brendan Hughes wrote IRA communiqués and articles for \"Republican News\" under the pen name \"Brownie\", although most material published under this pseudonym was written by Gerry Adams. After Adams's release, Feeney began writing under the pseudonym \"Salon\".\n\nFeeney was released from custody in 1986. On 20 May 1991, he was arrested in New York City and deported the next day for having illegally entered the United States. \n\nFeeney was arrested in the offices of \"The Irish People\", an Irish republican newspaper published by Martin Galvin in New York City. The arrest was controversial because it involved a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agent posing as a journalism student in order to gain access to the paper's editorial offices, which was a violation of FBI policy at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1447239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1447239", "title": "Ivan Klasnić", "text": "Ivan Klasnić\n\nIvan Klasnić (; born 29 January 1980) is a Croatian retired footballer who played as a striker.\n\nHe began his career with local side St. Pauli, and moved to Werder Bremen in 2001 after helping his previous team to promotion to the Bundesliga. He scored 49 league goals in 151 appearances with Werder Bremen, winning a league and cup double in 2004. After a season in France with Nantes, he moved to English Premier League team Bolton Wanderers in 2009, initially on loan. After their relegation in 2012, he spent a season back in Germany with Mainz.\n\nKlasnić played also for the Croatian national football team. In 2007, Klasnić underwent a kidney transplant, and became the first player to participate in a major tournament (UEFA Euro 2008) after a transplant. He also represented Croatia at UEFA Euro 2004 and the 2006 FIFA World Cup.\n\nBorn in Hamburg, West Germany, Klasnić started his professional career with local side St. Pauli, and impressed as a striker in the three-and-a-half seasons that he played for the club in the 2. Bundesliga since becoming a professional in January 1998. Prior to his spell at St. Pauli, he played for less known amateur sides Union 03 Hamburg and TSV Stellingen.\n\nAfter helping St. Pauli to gain promotion to the first division with 10 goals scored for the club in the second division during the 2000–01 season, he made the switch to Werder Bremen in the summer of 2001 and finally made his mark in the first team in 2003 with some powerful performances in the Bundesliga. His first two seasons at the club had been marked by erratic form (he scored only three goals in 36 Bundesliga appearances) and two serious knee injuries, but he laid old ghosts to rest as he emerged a key figure in Werder Bremen's march to the Bundesliga title in the 2003–04 season, when he also won the DFB-Pokal with the club. He scored 13 goals and made another 11 for his Brazilian strike partner Ailton. His expiring contract caused a scramble for his signature at the beginning of the year before he eventually decided to stay at Bremen.\n\nParticipating in the 2004–05 UEFA Champions League season, Klasnić scored five goals in the two group matches against Belgian side RSC Anderlecht, including a hat-trick in the 5–1 home victory for Werder Bremen, helping the team to advance to the first knock-out stage of the competition before losing to strong French side Olympique Lyonnais, who crushed them 10–2 on aggregate.\n\nHis start in the 2006–07 season was not very successful either and he had to make seven Bundesliga appearances before finally scoring his first league goal of the season in Werder Bremen's quite disappointing 1–1 draw against underdogs Energie Cottbus at home. However, Klasnić suffered a kidney failure in early 2007 (\"see Illness and kidney transplant\") and was out for more than ten months. In April 2008 he claimed that Werder's club physicians could have already detected the illness in 2002 and thus sued them in Landgericht Bremen. He also stated that he would not prolong his expiring contract with Werder since it would mean to be treated by the same medical personnel who had not detected his illness in time.\n\nOn 14 May 2008, Werder Bremen confirmed that Klasnić was leaving the club.\n\nOn 8 July 2008, Klasnić moved to FC Nantes where he was loaned, then he signed a four-year contract. After one very difficult season with just six goals in 28 games for him, Nantes was relegated in French Ligue 2. The next season, he scored four goals in just five games.\n\nKlasnić signed for Bolton Wanderers on transfer deadline day of the 2009–10 season on a year-long loan deal, becoming Gary Megson's last signing for the club.\n\"Ivan is a player who we have been tracking for quite a while. His goalscoring record is very good and he has an excellent pedigree at international level with Croatia and domestically in Europe.\" – Gary Megson.\n\nOn 12 September 2009, Klasnić made his debut for Bolton in their 3–2 win over Portsmouth after coming on as a substitute for Sam Ricketts. One of his first contributions was to be involved in the move which led to the winning goal by Gary Cahill. His first goal for the club came in the 3–2 win against Everton on 25 October. He finished the season with eight Premier League goals.\n\nOn 4 August 2010, Klasnić signed permanently for Bolton on a two-year contract following his loan spell with the club. and scored the first goal of his second spell in the 1–0 League Cup victory at Southampton on 24 August. His first Premier league goal after signing permanently was the winner in the 2–1 home win against Stoke City, although he was also sent off in the match. Klasnić scored a late winner against Aston Villa on 5 March 2011. In May 2011, Klasnić scored a late goal after coming on as a substitute against Sunderland to make the score 1–1, only for Sunderland to grab a winner in stoppage time. Klasnić did not start a single Premier League game the whole season, but still managed seven goals in all competitions.\n\nKlasnić began the 2011–12 season with a place in the starting line up, and a goal, as Bolton beat Queens Park Rangers 4–0 on the opening day. He followed this up with another goal the following week in a 3–2 defeat to Manchester City, and a late consolation in a 3–1 away loss to Liverpool. At this point of the season he was the Premier League's leading goalscorer. He was sent off in a 2–1 loss against Norwich for a headbutt on Marc Tierney on 18 September 2011, forcing him to fall out of the team. His first start after his red card was in a 5–0 win against Stoke City on 6 November in which he scored two goals and gave assists for two others. He then scored a penalty in the following game against West Brom but Bolton lost 2–1. His next goal, his seventh of the season, came a few weeks later at home to Aston Villa, but Bolton again lost 2–1. After losing his place in the team to fellow forward David Ngog, he came back as a late substitute at home to Queens Park Rangers on 10 March, where he scored the winner in the 86th minute as Bolton won the match 2–1. After Bolton's relegation from the Premier League, on 16 May, Klasnić confirmed on his official website that he had left the club.\n\nIn September 2012, Klasnić joined German side Mainz 05 as a free player and signed a one-year contract.\n\nKlasnić turned down an invitation from Rudi Völler to play for Germany and chose to play for Croatia instead as he had already won three caps and scored one goal for their under-21 team in the spring of 2001. He also played five times and scored one goal for the Croatian under-19 team in 1998 and 1999. By a quirk of fate, his international debut came against Germany in February 2004 in a friendly match where the Germans claimed a 2–1 victory.\n\nHe was selected to play for Croatia in the UEFA Euro 2004. However, he was left on the substitutes bench throughout the tournament. Croatia did not advance past the group stage and the media often attributed that to the lack of inclusion of Klasnić, among other things.\n\nIn the Croatian national team, however, his performances during 2004–05 were rather modest as he only netted one goal in eight qualifying matches for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, being on target in the team's opening qualifier against Hungary in September 2004, which they easily won 3–0. In February 2005, he gave a good performance for the national team in a friendly match against Israel, scoring twice in a 3–3 draw. On the first day of March 2006, he was on target for Croatia once again as he netted their first goal in a 3–2 win over Argentina in another friendly match.\n\nIn May 2006, he was expectedly named to the Croatian 23-man squad for the 2006 FIFA World Cup finals in Germany and displayed really good shape throughout the month as he first scored four goals in three Bundesliga matches for Werder Bremen, ending the 2005–06 Bundesliga season with a total of 15 goals scored, and then netted a brace for the national team in a World Cup preparation friendly against Austria on 23 May, where they easily won 4–1. However, as the World Cup approached his good shape started to fade and he did not manage to score any further goals in the remaining three preparation matches as well as in all three group matches at the tournament, where Croatia exited the competition in the first round with two draws and a defeat.\n\nIn the 2006–07 season, he lost his place in Croatia's starting XI after giving two modest performances in the opening two qualifying matches for the UEFA Euro 2008, where he nevertheless managed to score one goal in the 7–0 crushing of minnows Andorra. In the following two matches, against England and Israel, he was left an unused substitute.\n\nAt Euro 2008, Klasnić was an unused substitute in Croatia's Group B opening two games; however he started the final group match on 16 June vs. Poland and scored a goal in 53rd minute thus, sending his side with a perfect group stage score into the next round. In the quarter-finals match against Turkey, Klasnić was again on the bench but was given the chance to play at the start of the first extra time in substitution of teammate Ivica Olić. In the 118th (with just two minutes to play plus injury time), Klasnić headed an elevated pass provided by Luka Modrić and scored a crucial goal for Croatia. However, Croatia was to be eliminated from the tournament as Semih Şentürk equalised with a goal just two minutes later and Turkey won the subsequent penalty shoot-out. Ivan was remembered for his efforts which saw him become the only player to ever participate at a major tournament after a kidney transplant, also scoring two goals during his campaign.\n\nIn January 2007, it was reported that Klasnić suffered kidney failure. On 25 January 2007, he received a kidney transplant from his mother Šima, but soon it was reported that his body rejected the new organ.\n\nOn 23 March 2007, he underwent surgery to replace the rejected kidney, this time receiving a kidney from his father. The second transplant was a success, and Klasnić stated that his doctors told him that he \"would be able to continue playing football.\"\n\nHowever, in August 2007, the doctors at Werder Bremen forbade him to train due to inability of his body to withstand heavy physical strain.\n\nIn September 2007, doctors finally allowed Ivan Klasnić to attend full training after he was absent for about six months. He then joined the team and made a couple of appearances in the club's cup activities and also appeared in a few matches for the second team.\n\nFinally, on 24 November 2007, he was selected to start for Werder for the first time since December 2006, and played 65 minutes for his team in a Bundesliga match against Energie Cottbus. Klasnić completed his comeback on 15 December 2007, scoring twice in Bremen's 5–2 victory over Bayer Leverkusen, playing 85 minutes.\n\nIn March 2008, Klasnić was recalled to the national team after a year of absence. He became the first player ever to participate at a major tournament after a kidney transplant when he played at Euro 2008 and scored against both Poland in the group stage and against Turkey in the quarter-finals.\n\nIn September 2016, Klasnić's transplanted kidney failed and he was deemed critically ill. He received a third transplant in October 2017.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "350293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350293", "title": "Jack Horner (paleontologist)", "text": "Jack Horner (paleontologist)\n\nJohn R. \"Jack\" Horner (born June 15, 1946) is an American paleontologist most famous for discovering and naming \"Maiasaura\", providing the first clear evidence that some dinosaurs cared for their young. In addition to his paleontological discoveries, Horner served as the technical advisor for all the \"Jurassic Park\" films, had a cameo appearance in \"Jurassic World\", and served as a partial inspiration for one of the lead characters of the franchise, Dr. Alan Grant. Horner studied at the University of Montana, although he did not complete his degree due to undiagnosed dyslexia, and was awarded a Doctorate in Science \"honoris causa\". Jack retired from the Museum of the Rockies and is now Regent's Professor of Paleontology Emeritus at Montana State University and teaches as a Presidential Fellow at Chapman University in Orange, California.\n\nHorner was born and raised in Shelby, Montana. He was eight years old when he found his first dinosaur bone. He attended the University of Montana for seven years, majoring in geology and zoology. He also spent two years in the U.S. Marine Corps, serving during the Vietnam War in the Special Forces. Horner did not complete his bachelor's degree due to severe dyslexia. However, he did complete a senior thesis on the fauna of the Bear Gulch Limestone, one of the most famous Mississippian lagerstätten (exceptionally preserved fossil sites) in the world, located in Montana. The University of Montana awarded him an Honorary Doctorate of Science in 1986. In 1986, he was also awarded the prestigious MacArthur Fellowship.\n\nIn Montana during the mid-1970s, Horner and his research partner Bob Makela discovered a colonial nesting site of a new dinosaur genus which they named \"Maiasaura\", or \"Good Mother Lizard\". The dinosaur bones, originating from a juvenile, were first discovered by Marion Brandvold. Horner then studied the bones, and at first, there was a refusal to return the bones to Brandvold. It contained the first dinosaur eggs in the Western hemisphere, the first dinosaur embryos, and settled questions of whether some dinosaurs were sociable, built nests and cared for their young. The discovery established Horner's career. He has named several other species of dinosaur (including \"Orodromeus makelai,\" in memory of his late friend Bob Makela) and has had three named after himself: \"Achelousaurus horneri\", \"Anasazisaurus horneri\", and \"Daspletosaurus horneri\".\nWithin the paleontological community, Horner is best known for his work on dinosaur growth research. He has published numerous articles in collaboration with Berkeley paleontologist Kevin Padian, and French dinosaur histologist Armand de Ricqlès, on the growth of dinosaurs using growth series. This usually involves leg bones in graduated sizes from different individuals ranging in age from embryos to adults. Horner also revitalized the contested theory that \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" was an obligate scavenger, rather than a predatory killer. While this theory has been widely discussed by the popular press, it has never been a major research focus for Horner. He claimed that he never published the scavenger hypothesis in the peer reviewed scientific literature, stating that it was mainly a tool for him to teach a popular audience, particularly children, of the dangers of making assumptions in science (such as assuming \"T. rex\" was a hunter) without using evidence. In 2000, teams led by Horner discovered five specimens of \"T. rex\" and three more the following summer, including one larger than the specimen nicknamed \"Sue\". The new fossil was 10–13 tons in weight and 10% larger than other specimens. The Museum of the Rockies, as the result of continuing fieldwork, now exhibits the largest \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" collection in the world. Currently, Horner is working on the developmental biology of dinosaurs.\n\nHorner has published over 100 professional papers, eight books including \"Dinosaurs Under the Big Sky\"; a children's book, \"Maia: A Dinosaur Grows Up\"; a non-fiction book on dinosaurs from Montana, \"Dinosaur Lives\"; and numerous articles. He was also a part of a 2005 discovery of soft tissue in a \"T. rex\" fossil. Currently, Horner is the Curator of Paleontology at the Museum of the Rockies, the Regent's Professor of Paleontology, adjunct curator at the National Museum of Natural History, and teaches with the Honors Program at Montana State University in Bozeman, Montana. Over the years he has advised people who have gone on to be leading experts in paleontology, such as Mary Higby Schweitzer, Greg Erickson, Scott Sampson, Kristi Curry-Rogers, and David J. Varricchio. Horner was awarded an honorary doctorate by Pennsylvania State University in 2006 in recognition of his work.\n\nIn 2003, Horner discovered a fossilized tyrannosaur leg bone from which paleontologist Mary Higby Schweitzer was able to retrieve proteins in 2007.\n\nIn 2009, the National Geographic released a documentary entitled \"Dinosaurs Decoded\", which reviews Horner's research into juvenile dinosaurs. He suggests that juvenile dinosaurs looked sufficiently different from adults, and that they have sometimes been mistaken for separate species. The program examines specific changes that occurred as dinosaurs aged and speculates on why the changes were necessary. Horner's research on the topic has gone as far as eliminating several \"sub-species\" of \"Triceratops\", \"Pachycephalosaurus\", and \"Tyrannosaurus\". Horner also believes that if his research were to continue as much as a third of known dinosaurs would be classified under an existing species.\n\nOn November 2, 2013, Horner was awarded the Romer-Simpson Prize, the highest honor a paleontologist can receive from the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology. In 2014 he was awarded the Blue & Gold Award from Montana State University.\n\nOn his retirement from Montana State University on July 1, 2016, the MacMillan Foundation honored Horner for his work with a $3 million endowment for the John R. Horner Curator of Paleontology Chair for the Museum of the Rockies/ Montana State University - funding the work of his Paleontology successors in perpetuity.\n\nHorner's 2009 book, \"How to Build a Dinosaur: Extinction Doesn't Have to Be Forever\", describes his plan to recreate a dinosaur by genetically \"nudging\" the DNA of a chicken. Horner's idea for the project came from an early script for the film \"Jurassic World\".\nHe had been planning the book as early as June 2005; it was originally planned to be released simultaneously with \"Jurassic World\" as a scientific companion volume.\n\nAs of 2011 Horner is pursuing the project to develop the animal, which he describes as a \"chickenosaurus\", with a team of geneticists. By November 2014, Horner and his team had conducted some of the earliest research into the embryonic development of tails. Such research may ultimately lead to new treatments for people suffering from spinal disorders. Research into the mesenchyme tissue of chicken embryos, which direct the growth of teeth, may also aid in the treatment of human sarcomas. George Lucas had funded most of the project's costs up to that point, while an additional $5 million was needed. Horner expected to have a living dinosaur within 10 years.\n\nIn 2015, an independent group of scientists reported that they had found a way to turn the beaks of chicken embryos back into dinosaur-like snouts, by reverse genetic engineering, and University of Chile geneticists have produced embryos with dinosaur-like leg and foot anatomy including the fibula full-length and reaching the ankle.\n\n"}
{"id": "2433396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2433396", "title": "James Albery", "text": "James Albery\n\nJames Albery (4 May 1838 – 15 August 1889) was an English dramatist.\n\nAlbery was born in London. On leaving school Albery entered an architect's office, and started to write plays. His farce \"A Pretty Piece of Chiselling\" was given its first production by the Ingoldsby Club in 1864. After some failures, his adaptation, \"Dr Davy\", was produced at the Lyceum Theatre, London (1866). His most successful piece, \"Two Roses\", a comedy, was produced at the Vaudeville Theatre in 1870, in which Sir Henry Irving made one of his earliest London successes as Digby Grant. The production ran for 300 performances.\n\nAlbery was the author of a large number of other plays and adaptations, including \"Coquettes\" (1870); \"Pickwick\", a four-act drama (based on Dickens's \"The Pickwick Papers\" (1871); \"Pink Dominos\" (1877), a farce that ran for an extremely successful 555 performances and was one of a series of adaptations from the French which he made for the Criterion Theatre, where his wife, the actress Mary Moore (who after his death became Lady Charles Wyndham (1861—1931)), played the leading parts; \"Jingle\" (a farcical version of \"Pickwick\"), produced at the Lyceum in 1878; and \"Oriana\" (with music by Frederic Clay).\n\nHis one-act operetta, \"The Spectre Knight\", with music by Alfred Cellier, ran as a companion piece to Gilbert and Sullivan's \"The Sorcerer\" and then \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" at the Opera Comique in 1878 and on tour. He also wrote the farce \"Brighton\" (1888) among other later plays. Albery also wrote a book called \"Where's the Cat?\" in 1880.\n\nAlbery's and Moore's son was Bronson Albery (1881-1971), a theatre director, after whom the Albery Theatre is named. He wrote this epitaph for himself: \"He slept beneath the moon/He basked beneath the sun;/He lived a life of going-to-do,/And died with nothing done.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1776285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1776285", "title": "Jenaro Pérez Villaamil", "text": "Jenaro Pérez Villaamil\n\nJenaro Pérez de Villaamil y d'Huguet (3 February 1807 – 5 June 1854) was a Spanish painter in the Romantic style who specialized in landscapes with figures and architectural scenes. He often inflated the scale of the buildings relative to the figures to make them more impressive.\n\nHe was born in Ferrol, Galicia. In 1812, he was enrolled at the military academy in Santiago de Compostela, where he assisted his father, who was a professor there. He went to Madrid in 1820 to study at the \"Reales Estudios de San Isidro\" (now part of the Colegio Imperial de Madrid). Three years later, he went to Cádiz to enlist in the army fighting the \"Hundred Thousand Sons of Saint Louis\" sent by the Duke of Angoulême. He was wounded and briefly held as a prisoner of war. Afterwards, he remained there to study at the \"Escuela de Bellas Artes\".\n\nIn 1830, he went to San Juan, Puerto Rico, with his brother Juan (died 1863), who was also a painter, where they decorated the Teatro Tapia and remained there for a few more years, working as scenographers. Upon his return to Spain in 1833, he made the acquaintance of the Scottish painter David Roberts, who had a decisive influence on his style. He settled in Madrid in 1834 and became a member of the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando the following year. In 1840, he was named honorary court painter to Queen Isabella II. During the regime of Baldomero Espartero, from 1840 to 1844, he left his wife and young child and lived in self-imposed exile in France and Belgium, using artistic affairs as an excuse for his absence. After travelling through Europe, he returned in 1845 and obtained the chair of landscape painting at the Academia, where he later became the director.\n\nHe returned to Galicia for an extended stay in 1849 and made extensive travels throughout Spain until 1852, when he began to suffer from liver disease. He died in Madrid two years later, aged only forty-seven.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58263097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58263097", "title": "Jessie Saulteaux", "text": "Jessie Saulteaux\n\nJessie Prettyshield Saulteaux (1912 - 1995) was a Canadian Assiniboine elder and theological leader.\n\nEarly in life, Saulteaux desired to become a nurse, but she was unable to do so due to reasons of race. Instead she turned her talents towards helping her community, the Carry-the-Kettle First Nation, and her church. She was among the first women in Saskatchewan to be elected tribal chief; she also supported the development of ministers and church leaders from the First Nations community. She participated in the founding of the All Native Circle Conference in the United Church of Canada, and the establishment of a theological college for indigenous people. The latter was named the Dr. Jessie Saulteaux Resource Center in 1984, the year after she received a doctor of divinity degree from St. Andrew's College, Saskatoon. The Resource Center merged with the Francis Sandy Theological Centre, named for an Ojibwa lay minister and elder, in 2016, becoming the Sandy-Saulteaux Spiritual Centre.\n"}
{"id": "215298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215298", "title": "John G. Bennett", "text": "John G. Bennett\n\nJohn Godolphin Bennett (8 June 1897 – 13 December 1974) was a British mathematician, scientist, technologist, industrial research director, and author. He is best known for his books on psychology and spirituality, particularly on the teachings of G. I. Gurdjieff. Bennett met Gurdjieff in Istanbul in October 1920 and later helped to co-ordinate the work of Gurdjieff in England after the guru had moved to Paris. He also was active in starting the British section of the Subud movement, and co-founded its British headquarters.\n\nBennett was born in London, England; educated at King's College School, London; Royal Military Academy, Woolwich; School of Military Engineering, Chatham; and the School of Oriental Studies, London.\n\nHe was a Fellow of the Institute of Fuel, London, from 1938 onwards; Chairman, Conference of Research Associations, 1943–1945; Chairman, Solid Fuel Industry, British Standards Institution, 1937–1942; Chairman and Director, Institute for the comparative study of History, Philosophy, and the Sciences, Kingston upon Thames, 1946–1959.\n\nBennett's parents met in Florence, Italy; they later married. His mother was American and his father was British. In Bennett's infancy, his family were moderately wealthy and traveled frequently in Europe. In 1912, his father, who was a noted traveller, adventurer and linguist, lost all of his money and his wife's in an investment that failed. Bennett later displayed an extraordinary talent for languages, which enabled him to talk with many spiritual teachers in their native tongues. He studied Hindu, Buddhist, Islamic and Christian sacred texts in their original languages. \n\nBennett makes little reference to his childhood in his autobiography, \"Witness\". Elsewhere he credits his mother with instilling in him the virtues of hard work and tolerance.\n\nAt school, he excelled in sports and captained the school rugby football team. He won a scholarship in mathematics from Oxford University, but never had the chance to take advantage of this because of the outbreak of the Great War. He continued to play rugby football for the army (against such opponents as the New Zealand national team), breaking his arm once and his collar bone twice.\n\nIn the First World War, at the age of nineteen, Bennett served as a subaltern in the Royal Engineers, with responsibility for signals and telegraphy.\n\nIn France in March 1918, he was blown off his motorcycle by an exploding shell. Taken to a military hospital, operated upon, and apparently in a coma for six days, Bennett had an out-of-body experience. He became convinced that there is something in man which can exist independently of the body.\n\nThis experience set his life on a new course. He described the return to normal consciousness as the return to a body that was now in some sense a stranger.\n\nIn the closing months of the First World War, Bennett undertook an intensive course in the Turkish language at the School of Oriental and African Studies, London, and was posted to Constantinople. He was assigned to a sensitive position in Anglo-Turkish relations, at the time of the breakup of the Ottoman Empire and rise in Turkish nationalism. His fluency made him the confidant of many high-ranking Turkish political figures; it also helped him to develop his knowledge of Turkey and to gain insights into non-European ways of thinking. A notable piece of initiative drew the attention of General Edmund Allenby, and a mention in C-in-C's dispatches. Bennett was recruited to be the head of Military Intelligence \"B\" Division, with responsibility for the entire Middle Eastern region.\n\nBennett's eighteen months' tenure in this position were so eventful, that he is still regarded as a major figure in the political life of Turkey in that period. Bennett's success resulted in some animosities among his superiors and he was recalled to London in January 1921. He resigned his commission with the rank of Captain and a pension for life. He kept an abiding love for Turkey for the rest of his life.\n\nAfter the war, Bennett had married Evelyn, with whom he had a daughter, Ann, born August 1920. Evelyn had stayed in England when he was posted to Turkey. Bennett's immersion in Turkish affairs and his relationship with Winifred Beaumont, an English woman living in Turkey, placed increasing strain on the marriage. In 1924, Evelyn Bennett sued for divorce. Bennett later married Beaumont, who was twenty years his senior; they were together until her death in 1958. (He married a third time in 1958, to Elizabeth Mayall.)\n\nAfter the First World War and the Russian Revolution, many displaced people passed through Constantinople en route to the West. Part of Bennett's job was to monitor their movements. Among them were G.I. Gurdjieff and P.D. Ouspensky, whom Bennett met through Prince Sabahaddin. This reformist thinker had introduced him to a wide range of religious and occultist systems, including Theosophy and Anthroposophy. Bennett became determined to pursue the search for a deeper reality. He had been profoundly impressed with Gurdjieff's ideas about the arrangement of the human organism and the possibility of a man's transformation to a higher state of being, and would later dedicate much of his life to the elaboration and dissemination of those ideas.\n\nGurdjieff and Ouspensky moved on to Europe, and Bennett remained in Turkey, committed to his work and fascinated by the political and social developments in Turkey. The sultanate fell and on October 29, 1923, the Turkish republic was proclaimed. Bennett approved permission for M. Kemal Atatürk to enter Samsun, where he started the Turkish Independence struggle.\n\nGurdjieff founded his Institute for the Harmonious Development of Man at the Château Le Prieuré in Fontainebleau-Avon, south of Paris, in October 1922. Bennett visited in the summer of 1923, spending three months at the institute. This experience further convinced him that Gurdjieff had profound knowledge and understanding of techniques by which man can achieve transformation. Gurdjieff encouraged Bennett to stay longer, but Bennett was short of money and so felt obliged to return to work in England. Though Bennett expected to return to the group soon, he would not meet Gurdjieff again until 1948.\n\nBennett served the British government as a consultant on the Middle East, and interpreter at the 1924 conference in London intended to settle disputes between Greece and Turkey. He was invited to stand for parliament, but he chose instead to give his personal studies precedence over his public life.\n\nHe joined Ouspensky's groups, and continued to study Gurdjieff's system with them for fifteen years. Ouspensky broke off all contact with Gurdjieff himself in the early 1920s.\n\nDuring this time, Bennett became involved with various coal mining ventures in Greece and Turkey. These were ultimately unsuccessful, but in the process he acquired expertise in mining and coal chemistry. He worked for four years in Greece, where he was also involved in protracted negotiations involving land claims by members of the deposed Turkish royal family.\n\nIn 1938, Bennett was asked to head Britain's newest industrial research organisation, the British Coal Utilisation Research Association (BCURA). With the outbreak of World War II, BCURA's research was focused on developing fuel-efficient fireplaces and finding alternatives to oil. BCURA developed cars powered by coal-gas and a coal-based plastic.\n\nIn 1941, Ouspensky left England to live in the United States. By now, Bennett was running his own study groups and giving talks on the subject of Gurdjieff's system. The groups continued and expanded in London throughout the Second World War. Bennett began writing and developing his own ideas in addition to Gurdjieff's. Ouspensky repudiated him in 1945, which proved very painful for Bennett. He had lost touch with Gurdjieff during the war, and believed him to be dead.\n\nIn 1946, Bennett and his wife founded the non-profit Institute for the Comparative Study of History, Philosophy and the Sciences:\n\nThe Institute bought Coombe Springs, a seven-acre estate in Kingston upon Thames, Surrey, which had housed research laboratories used by BCURA. The Bennetts moved in with ten of Bennett's closest pupils, with the intention of starting a small research community. Coombe Springs became a centre for group work. In addition to the small community who lived there permanently, hundreds of people visited Coombe Springs for meetings and summer schools.\n\nThe old laboratories were used as dormitory space; they were known as the \"fishbowl\" because of the large amount of glass they had. A \"new building\" was later built for superior accommodation. The main house was used for meetings as well as accommodation. Coombe Springs took its name from an original Elizabethan spring house in the grounds. Until the mid-19th century, it had provided water to the palace at Hampton Court.\n\nBennett believed that Gurdjieff's system could be reconciled with modern science. He started work on a five-dimensional geometry which included \"eternity\" as a second time-like dimension, introducing this in his first published book, \"The Crisis in Human Affairs\" (1948).\n\nOuspensky died in 1947. In 1948, Bennett went to the United States and met Ouspensky's wife, through whom he learned that Gurdjieff had survived the Nazi occupation of France and was living in Paris. Though it was 25 years since they had last met (due mainly to Ouspensky's longstanding veto against Gurdjieff to members of his groups), Bennett quickly decided to renew contact. In the 18 months before Gurdjieff's death (in October 1949), Bennett visited him frequently. He also continued his crowded professional schedule (he was now working for the Powell Duffryn coal company) and his responsibilities towards the group work at Coombe Springs.\n\nA month spent working very intensively with Gurdjieff's group in the summer of 1949 laid the foundation for a significant transformation in his life and spiritual work. At that time, Gurdjieff's apartment in Paris had become a 'Mecca' to the followers of his ideas, who converged from many different countries. Bennett learnt of Gurdjieff's writings, and read \"Beelzebub's Tales to His Grandson\" for the first time. At the beginning of 1949, Gurdjieff named Bennett as his 'Representative for England'. Bennett later gave public lectures in London on Gurdjieff and his ideas.\n\nThis period was described by Bennett's third wife, Elizabeth Bennett (1918-1991), who was part of the study group, in her book \"Idiots in Paris: Diaries of J.G. Bennett and Elizabeth Bennett, 1949\". Her memoir was based on J.G. Bennett's diaries and on her own memories. A third paperback edition was published posthumously in 2017.\n\nGurdjieff's death in 1949 was a serious blow for all his followers. Disagreements arose within the group, partly as a result of Gurdjieff's having allocated his closest associates with conflicting areas of authority. In Bennett's case, the conflict was exacerbated by his own interpretation and development of Gurdieff's ideas.\n\nAfter Gurdjieff's death, the various groups looked to Jeanne de Salzmann to give them direction and hold them together, but there was little inherent harmony among them. At this time Bennett was a member of a small group headed by Madame de Salzmann, and he put his work at Coombe Springs under her overall guidance. \n\nIn 1950, Bennett was falsely accused of harbouring communists on his staff, during a communist scare in Great Britain, and he was forced to resign from Powell Dufryn. (He later resisted several attractive offers to return to a career in industrial research and administration). He began to concentrate more fully on the group work at Coombe Springs. He lectured frequently, trying to fulfill a promise he had made to Gurdjieff to do everything in his power to propagate his ideas. Friendly relations continued with Madame de Salzmann and her groups throughout 1951 and 1952, but by then Bennett was convinced that his more senior students were not making progress. He believed that he had to learn firsthand whether there still existed an ancient tradition or source from which Gurdjieff had derived his teaching.\n\nIn 1953, Bennett undertook a long journey to the Middle East (West Asia), visiting Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Persia. His search, chronicled in his book \"Journeys in Islamic Countries\" (reprinted in paperback in 2001), brought him into contact with Sufis of extraordinary spiritual accomplishment, such as Emin Chikou (1890-1964) (known in Syria as Mohammad Amin Sheikho) and Farhâd Dede (1882-1977), the former of whom led Bennett indirectly to a profound meeting with Shaykh Abdullah Fa'izi ad-Daghestani (1891-1973). Bennett described him as \"a true saint in whom one feels an immediate complete trust. With him there were no lengthy arguments or quotations from the scriptures.\" Their chance meeting on a mountaintop in Damascus is chronicled, albeit briefly, in his book \"Subud.\" Bennett concludes that Shaykh Daghestani was in possession of \"powers of a kind that I had already seen in Gurdjieff and one or two others, and prepared me to take very seriously anything that he might [have to] say.\"\n\nDuring 1954, differences of opinion became more obvious between Bennett and Madame de Salzmann regarding the promulgation of Gurdjieff's teachings. Bennett decided that an effectual working relationship with her groups was not possible. He wanted to execute Gurdjieff's last directives literally, by disseminating his ideas and writings as widely as possible, especially \"Beelzebub's Tales to his Grandson\", which Madame de Salzmann wanted to keep away from the public eye.\n\nIn 1955, Bennett initiated a project to build an unusual nine-sided meeting hall at Coombe Springs for the performance of Gurdjieff's sacred dance movements. This, together with his public lectures in London, completed the rift with Madame de Salzmann. The project took two years to complete. At the opening in 1957, Bennett commented that the real value of such a project was in building a community rather than the building itself.\n\nIn 1956, Bennett was introduced to Subud, a spiritual movement originating in Java (an island in the Republic of Indonesia). For a number of reasons, Bennett felt that Gurdjieff had expected the arrival of a very important teaching from Indonesia. In spite of deep reservations, in November 1956 Bennett allowed himself to be 'opened' by Husein Rofé, a native Englishman (1922-2008) who had studied in the East. Rofé used the latihan (the primary spiritual exercise used in Subud).\n\nBennett regarded the latihan as being akin to what the mystics call diffuse contemplation. He also felt that the latihan has the power to awaken a person's conscience, the spiritual faculty that Gurdjieff regarded as necessary for salvation. Bennett sent an invitation to Subud's founder, Muhammad Subuh Sumohadiwidjojo (1901-1987) (aka Pak Subuh), to come to England. Pak Subuh came to Coombe Springs, where all Bennett's pupils were given the opportunity to be 'opened'. \n\nIt was a highly controversial event. It included the apparently miraculous cure of film star Eva Bartok, but also the violent death of one of Bennett's pupils. The death of Bennett's pupil is described on pages 345–347 of the original edition of Bennett's auto-biography titled \"Witness: The Story of a Search\" (1962). The section on the death was excised from later editions of the autobiography, along with some fifty additional pages. Although Bennett admits writing this section from a subjective and self-serving perspective, the incident still showed the dangers of Subud and of putting one's trust blindly in any spiritual teacher or spiritual path.\n\nSoon Bennett was instrumental in spreading Subud practice all over the world. He travelled extensively to spread the Subud exercise, sometimes in the company of Pak Subuh. Bennett translated Pak Subuh's lectures into various languages. His introductory book on Subud, titled \"Concerning Subud\" (1959), sold thousands of copies worldwide.\n\nBennett's deep involvement in Subud meant less participation in the work-group activities and exercises that had been practised until he began this work. The meeting hall was left unfinished without its intended viewers' balcony and its striking pentagonal floor was filled in to allow for latihans. Its original purpose was not to be fulfilled for many years.\n\nSome of Bennett's pupils were dismayed. Subud's spontaneous exercise seemed to some to be the antithesis of Gurdjieff's methods for spiritual awakening, and Bennett's enthusiasm for it served to deepen the divisions within the Gurdjieff groups. Many people left the Coombe Springs groups, but others came in large numbers. For several years Coombe Springs was the headquarters of the Subud movement in Europe, attracting both serious seekers and sensation seekers.\n\nIn 1958, monks from the Benedictine Abbey of St. Wandrille, interested in Subud, contacted Bennett. The following year he made the first of many visits to the abbey to teach the monks. These visits brought him into close contact with the Catholic Church. Dom Albert-Jacques Bescond, OSB (1920-1986) was the first monk from the abbey to be 'opened', followed by many others. At St. Wandrille, Bennett first had a deep experience of what he believed was the destined unification of Islam and Christianity. He had given this possibility philosophical expression through his concept of 'essential will', as detailed in his \"The Dramatic Universe\" (4 vols). Soon after, he formally entered the Catholic Church.\n\nBy 1960, Bennett had concluded that the practice of 'latihan' alone was inadequate, and he resumed the work that he had learned from Gurdjieff. By 1962, Bennett left the Subud organization, feeling that a return to the Gurdjieff method was necessary.\n\nAlthough he always said that he had derived great benefit from Subud, his departure aroused animosity and dismay from Subud members, and many turned against him.\n\nMeanwhile, the Institute had been largely given over to Subud to the extent, at one time, of instigating a move to forbid the sale of Gurdjieff's books at Coombe Springs. In spite of this, Bennett reinstated lecture courses on psychokinetics, an action that led to increasing conflict among the membership.\n\nA battle of power ensued in 1962 that resulted in Subud acquiring its own organization and Bennett resigning from the Subud brotherhood and his role as leader of the Coombe Springs Community and Director of Research of the Institute.\n\nFrom 1963, the pattern of exercises that were subsequently followed at Coombe Springs combined the latihan with different techniques such as the Gurdjieff movements. The meeting hall was completed with the fitting of a balcony for viewers and an external access through stairs for spectators. Lectures were held on topics ranging from Sufism to Synchronicity, and Bennett resumed work on the final volumes of his \"personal whim\", the epic 'The Dramatic Universe', which he had been working on for more than ten years, constantly writing, revising and re-writing.\n\nMeanwhile, Bennett had made contact with the Shivapuri Baba, a Hindu sage living in Nepal. He had first heard of the Shivapuri Baba in the early 1940s, and now learned from Hugh Ripman (a fellow student of Ouspensky) that the yogi was still alive.\n\nBennett visited the Shivapuri Baba twice between 1961 and 1963, by which time the Shivapuri Baba was reportedly 137 years old. Bennett was impressed with the vitality and simplicity of the Shivapuri Baba's teaching, and later referred to him as his teacher. Bennett undertook to propagate the Shivapuri Baba's teaching, and made various attempts to incorporate it into his own work.\n\nThe Shivapuri Baba died in 1963, shortly after he had approved the draft for his biography, Bennett's \"Long Pilgrimage - The Life and Teaching of the Shivapuri Baba\".\n\nIn 1962, Bennett gave a seminar on spiritual psychology in which the various elements he had received (particularly from Gurdjieff, Subud and the Shivapuri Baba) were integrated into a coherent psycho-cosmology. This marked a major step in his understanding of a comprehensive methodology which combined both active and receptive \"lines of work\".\n\nBy this time Bennett was also working with a group of young scientists called ISERG (Integral Science Research Group) headed by Dr. Anthony Hodgson and soon joined by Anthony George Edward Blake, Kenneth Pledge, Henri Bortoft and others. This group investigated educational methods, the nature of science, and similar subjects. The group maintained a contact with physicist and philosopher David Bohm.\n\nResearch fellowships were created to enable Hodgson and Blake to concentrate their time on educational work. Out of this came the idea of structural communication which led the Institute into co-operative work with G.E.C. in the field of teaching machines.\n\nIn 1963, Bennett launched the institute's journal, \"Systematics\". The journal was designed to spread the ideas of the discipline of Systematics, a practical analytical method based on his own researches into the laws governing processes in the natural world. The journal ran for 11 years with major contributions from all disciplines.\n\nWhile the educational work was progressing, Bennett learned of Idries Shah, an exponent of Sufism. When they met, Shah presented Bennett with a document supporting his claim to represent the 'Guardians of the Tradition'. Bennett and other followers of Gurdjieff's ideas were astonished to meet a man claiming to represent what Gurdjieff had called 'The Inner Circle of Humanity', something they had discussed for so long without hope of its concrete manifestation.\n\nBennett introduced \"teaching stories\" to his groups on Shah's instructions. These are now widely published and recognized as important teaching materials containing the essence of Sufi knowledge and insight.\n\nIt remained unclear as to what the future relationship between the Institute, Bennett and Shah could become. Eventually Bennett decided to put Coombe Springs at Shah's disposal to do with as he saw fit. In October 1965 at an extraordinary General Meeting of the Institute, Bennett persuaded the membership to take this step.\n\nShah originally indicated that he would take Bennett's psychological groups under his own wing. Bennett welcomed this, as it would allow him to concentrate on research and writing. However, he again found himself unpopular - not only with conservatives within the Institute, but also with other followers of Idries Shah and members of his organisation SUFI (Society for the Understanding of the Foundation of Ideas).\n\nIn the spring of 1966, The Institute for Comparative Study donated Coombe Springs to Shah, who promptly sold it for a housing development. The Djamee was destroyed. About half the people who had studied under Bennett were integrated into his groups while the rest were left 'in the air'. The Institute was left with the educational research work as its main focus. The work with the Hirst Research Laboratories of G.E.C. bore fruit in the new teaching machine, the 'Systemaster', and Bennett organised various young people around him to write and develop teaching materials that followed the structural communication method.\n\nBennett and some of the Coombe Springs residents had moved into a nearby house in Kingston upon Thames, where the family (the Bennetts now had two sons and two young daughters) would live quietly for four years before Bennett embarked on his last great project - an experimental school for passing on techniques for spiritual transformation.\n\nBy 1969 the company which had been formed to explore structural communication – Structural Communication Systems Ltd. – was floundering and Bennett's health, too, was in a dangerous state. After his recovery, Bennett looked afresh at the situation and the conviction came to him that he should take up the work that Gurdjieff had started at the Prieuré in 1923 and been forced to abandon. He would start a School of the Fourth Way.\n\nBennett became very interested in young people, especially those who surfaced from the social and cultural turmoil of the 1960s with serious questions about the significance of life but with few satisfactory answers. As part of his research, Bennett attended the rock music festival on the Isle of Wight in 1970. The outcome was the establishment of an \"academy\" to teach some of what he had learned in trying to discover the \"sense and aim of life, and of human life in particular.\"\nOn the twenty fifth anniversary of the Institute, in April 1971, a jubilee celebration on the theme of The Whole Man was held. In a very short time, primarily in the USA, Bennett recruited many students and in October 1971 the International Academy for Continuous Education was inaugurated in Sherborne, Gloucestershire.\n\nBennett had begun this enterprise with no programme in mind and with only a handful of helpers. Initially, his ideas had involved running a school in the midst of 'life-conditions' in Kingston with two dozen students, but contact with a young representative of the New Age Movement in the USA persuaded him to think in terms of larger numbers and a relatively isolated locale in the countryside. Bennett realized that work on the land (which he considered to be an essential part of teaching the proper relationship between mankind and the rest of creation) would require a larger number. Both Hasan Shushud and Idries Shah made recommendations that, for the most part, he disregarded.\n\nHe quickly attracted one hundred pupils, and in 1971, with the support of the Institute for Comparative Study, he inaugurated the International Academy for Continuous Education, in the village of Sherborne, Gloucestershire, England.\n\nThe name was chosen \"to indicate on the one hand its Platonic inspiration and on the other to emphasise that it was to offer a teaching for the whole life of the men and women who came to it.\"\n\nAs he tells the story in his autobiography, although various spiritual leaders had urged him at various points in his life to strike out on his own path, it was not until near the end of his years that he felt fully confident to assume the mantle of the teacher. Bennett relates how Gurdjieff had told him in 1923 that one day Bennett would \"follow in his footsteps and take up the work he had started at Fontainebleau.\" In 1970, following the promptings of a still, small voice from within that said, \"You are to found a school\",\n\nBennett proposed that there should be five experimental courses each of ten months duration. The courses proved fruitful, and many people have continued, as he had hoped, to work with the ideas and methods he presented.\n\nIn April 1972, the Sufi Hasan Lutfi Shushud (1901-1988) came to stay for a few months at the Academy. Shushud and Bennett had met in Turkey ten years previously, and Shushud had visited Bennett's Surrey home in 1968, at which time he initiated Bennett into his wordless, universal zikr. Bennett concluded that Shushud's wordless universal zikr produced results similar to those of the latihan, while omitting many of the risks attendant on 'opening' people through Subud. Bennett observed that occasionally there are people 'opened' through Subud who experience some harsh and/or dangerous effects (for which they are unprepared) during the operation of the latihan. This observation led him to have reservations about the supposed absolute safety of the latihan for the general public. As a result of these reservations, Bennett became increasingly attracted to the Khwajagan (Masters of Wisdom of Central Asia) as presented in the teachings of Shushud. In 1973 Bennett’s publisher Alick Bartholomew commissioned Bennett and Shushud to co-write a book whose tentative title was \"Gurdjieff and the Masters of Wisdom\". Before the book was ready for publication Shushud pulled out of the project, telling Bennett that he did not trust the publisher, apparently on the grounds that Bartholomew had deducted state income tax from the advance payment for the book. However, eventually it became known that what Shushud was really objecting to was Bennett's contention in the book that Gurdjieff had established personal contact with the Khwajagan, and that therefore it is very likely that at least some of Gurdjieff's major teachings are based directly on what he had learned from the Khwajagan. Due to Shushud's disagreements with Bennett over this issue, Bennett ended up dividing the proposed book into two separate books, titled respectively \"Gurdjieff: Making a New World\" (1973) and \"The Masters of Wisdom\" (1975) (not published until after Bennett's death). However, in spite of Shushud's disagreements with Bennett over this issue, it appears that Bennett nevertheless (in the end) borrowed heavily from Shushud's teachings on the Khwajagan (probably against Shushud's wishes), in order to bring his book on that subject (\"The Masters of Wisdom\") to a successful conclusion.\n\nThere are a number of mysterious things about Shushud, who certainly had unusual powers. Bennett makes a brief reference to these in his book \"Witness\", and many others have attested to them. While criticising Bennett's methods, Shushud impressed on him that \"Your only home is the Absolute Void\". However, Shushud eventually agreed that what Bennett was doing for young Western seekers was more suitable for them than his own strict methods of fasting and zikr.\n\nIn the same year (1973), Bennett began editing Gurdjieff's Third Series of writings, \"Life is Real Only Then When I Am\", undertaking its publication on behalf of the Gurdjieff family (who were having difficulties in dealing with the Gurdjieff Foundation). He also revisited Turkey, meeting with Hajji Muzaffer Özak al-Jerrahi (1916-1985), the Grand Shaykh of the Halveti-Jerrahi Sufi Order.\n\nDuring the period of the second course at the Academy, a Theravada Buddhist monk and teacher from Cambodia named Bhante Dharmawara (1889-1999) came to Sherborne at Bennett's invitation. During his visit Dharmawara introduced meditation techniques that continue to be practised by many people.\n\nOther visitors to the Academy were Süleyman Dede (1904-1985), head of the Mevlevi Order in Konya, as well as Süleyman Dede's disciple Reshad Feild (1934-2016). Idries Shah paid a brief visit during the first year, but soon left, with harsh views on the attitudes and disposition of the students.\n\nThroughout the period of the Institute's existence, Bennett had been toying with the idea of founding a spiritual community. He saw the Sermon on the Mount as a document describing the true community.\nHis contact with Idries Shah combined this in his mind with the possibility of establishing a Power House where 'enabling energies' could be concentrated. He set his sights on some kind of self-sufficient community, populated by Sherborne graduates, to evolve out of the school. He was profoundly influenced by contemporary ideas, such as those of Schumacher, about the need for alternative technology and by the argument of conservationists for intelligent, ecologically sound agriculture. He was also greatly impressed that his spiritual hero and inner teacher, Khwaja Ubaidallah Ahrar (15th century) had turned to farming after his period of training.\n\nThe soaring price of land in the UK led to Bennett's interest in starting something in the USA. In 1974, he signed an agreement whereby the Institute loaned $100,000 to a newly formed society for the foundation of a psychokinetic community. He signed this document shortly before his death on December 13, 1974.\n\nThe Claymont Society was founded to attempt to carry out Bennett's vision, but without the help of his guidance.\n\nIn the summer of 1974, he visited the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi in Rome to question him about Transcendental Meditation and his interpretation of the Bhagavad Gita. Bennett had been initiated into TM several years before and first met the Maharishi in 1959. He disputed Maharishi's presentation of the Gita in which he eliminated the need for sacrifice and suffering.\n\nIn the last year of his life, he gradually made it known to those working with him, that his own personal task centred on the creation of a way of religious worship that would be accessible to men and women of the West who were lacking in religious formation. During this period he made experiments with the Islamic namaz and Sufi zikr.\n\nThe teachings he developed in his last years were recorded and published in a series of books put together by Anthony Blake. He showed that at last he was independent of Gurdjieff and had his own understanding of the spiritual world, based on a radical questioning of all current assumptions.\n\nBennett died on Friday, December 13, 1974, shortly after the start of the fourth course. That course, and the fifth, were completed by his wife, working with a few of his most experienced pupils.\n\nWith his death the Institute was faced with the typical problems of a body which had been led almost single-handedly by one man since its inception. The decision was taken to continue the Academy's work until the five-year period, originally specified by Bennett, had been completed. The setting up of the USA community at Claymont Court, West Virginia, went ahead.\n\nIn the months before he died, Bennett worked to establish an experimental \"ideal human society\" embodying the methods and ideas that he had developed and derived from Gurdjieff. He made substantial efforts to overcome the rifts that had grown between different groups of Gurdjieff's followers, and was beginning to talk about the development of new forms of worship appropriate for the modern world.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "981742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=981742", "title": "Josephine Clofullia", "text": "Josephine Clofullia\n\nJosephine Clofullia (1829–1875) was a famous Swiss-born bearded lady who toured with P. T. Barnum's \"American Museum\".\n\nMadame Clofullia, as she was often billed was born Josephine Boisdechêne in Switzerland. She was born hairy and reputedly had a two-inch beard at the age of eight. At the age of fourteen she began to tour Europe, first accompanied by her father and an agent and then with her father alone. In Paris she met painter Fortune Clofullia and eventually married him. She also gained extra fame when she fashioned her beard in the imitation of that of Napoleon III. In return, the ruler gave her a large diamond.\n\nJosephine gave birth to two children; the first, a daughter who was born in 1851, died in infancy. Her son Albert, who was born the next year, was as hirsute as his mother had been.\n\nAll four — Clofullia, her husband, son and father — moved to the United States where they joined forces with P. T. Barnum. Barnum had her beard officially measured as 6 inches, gave Albert a new name — \"Infant Esau\", after the biblical character — and took them to his American Museum.\n\nIn July 1853 William Charr took Clofullia to court, claiming that she was actually a man and an impostor. During the case doctors examined her and verified that she was a female and the case was eventually dismissed. By hearsay it has been suspected that Barnum arranged the whole matter himself as a publicity stunt.\n"}
{"id": "50791482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50791482", "title": "Josh Fadem", "text": "Josh Fadem\n\nJosh Fadem (born July 19, 1980) is an American actor, writer, and comedian. He is known for playing the camera guy, Joey Dixon on the AMC series \"Better Call Saul\" and Liz Lemon's agent Simon Barrons on the NBC series \"30 Rock\". He has also appeared on ‘’Twin Peaks, the Return’’ as Phil Bisby, \"Key & Peele\", \"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia\", \"The Whitest Kids U' Know\", and \"Comedy Bang! Bang!\". He starred in the Misfits and Monsters episode \"Patsy\". Fadem was born and raised in Tulsa, Oklahoma where he attended Booker T. Washington High School, but has lived and worked in Los Angeles since 2000.\n"}
{"id": "33819719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33819719", "title": "Kawango Agot", "text": "Kawango Agot\n\nKawango Agot is a Kenyan professor at the University of Nairobi. Agot's research focuses on HIV, HIV transmission, and male circumcision. She is the Project Coordinator of a joint research project between her university and the universities of Illinois and Manitoba (UNIM), evaluating the effect of male circumcision among HIV in young men.\n\nShe is an HIV specialist.\n\nA Fulbright scholar, she earned her bachelor's degree from the University of Nairobi, a Master of Philosophy from Moi University, and a PhD and MPH at the University of Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "10426074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10426074", "title": "Khalid Habib", "text": "Khalid Habib\n\nKhalid Habib () (died October 16, 2008), born Shawqi Marzuq Abd al-Alam Dabbas, was an ascending member of al-Qaeda's central structure in Pakistan and Afghanistan. His nationality was reported as Egyptian (by CBS News) and as Moroccan (by \"The New York Times\").\n\nHabib was the operations commander for the region. He was one of several al-Qaeda members who were more battle-hardened by combat experience in Iraq, Chechnya, and elsewhere. This experience rendered them more capable than their predecessors. According to \"The New York Times\", this cadre was more radical than the previous generation of al-Qaeda leadership. The FBI described Habib as \"one of the five or six most capable, most experienced terrorists in the world.\n\nIn 2008, Habib relocated from Wana to Taparghai, Pakistan to avoid missile strikes launched from US-operated MQ-1 Predator aircraft which targeted al Qaeda and Taliban personnel. Khalid Habib was killed by a Predator strike near Taparghai on October 16, 2008. Habib was reportedly sitting in a Toyota station wagon which was struck by the missile. On October 28, militants confirmed to the Asia Times that Habib was killed in the drone attack. \n\n"}
{"id": "18497688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18497688", "title": "LIM (rapper)", "text": "LIM (rapper)\n\nSalim Lakhdari (born in July, 1979 in Boulogne-Billancourt (Paris), France), more commonly known as LIM, is a French rapper and producer of Kabyle Algerian origin.\n\nLIM began rapping in 1990 at the age of 10 with the group \"Mo'vez Lang\", made up of his neighborhood friends Boulox Force (Djibi Diop) and Cens Nino (Houcene Marega).\n\nIn 2005, LIM released his debut solo album entitled \"Enfant Du Ghetto\", which featured Mo'vez Lang, Cheb Yahya, Cici and Mala.\n\nOn October 22, 2007, LIM released his second solo album entitled \"Délinquant\". In its first week, the album finished as the top selling album in all categories in France with 12,000 copies sold and would later go on to achieve gold status.\n\nHe has worked with many of France's top rappers including Rim'K, Booba and Manu Key.\n\nOriginally signed with the 45 Scientific label, LIM left it after some internal problems and made his own label called \"Tous Illicites Productions\". On top of releasing his own albums and mixtapes, LIM has used the label to give many youths in the Parisian banlieues an opportunity with free studio time and financial support to release albums.\n\nA 9 ans deja\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15410012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15410012", "title": "List of Batak people", "text": "List of Batak people\n\nThis is a list of notable Batak people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4689242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4689242", "title": "List of people from New England", "text": "List of people from New England\n\nAll of the following people were born in New England or spent a significant portion of their life in New England, making them a well-known figure in the region. This includes people who were born in or lived in the U.S. states of Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Rhode Island. Some of them, like Robert Frost, who was actually born in California, emigrated to New England and are now considered to be icons of the region. All of them exemplify some aspect of the region in one way or another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31632200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31632200", "title": "Lucy Worsley", "text": "Lucy Worsley\n\nLucy Worsley, OBE (born 18 December 1973) is an English historian, author, curator, and television presenter.\n\nWorsley is Joint Chief Curator at Historic Royal Palaces but is best known as a presenter of BBC Television series on historical topics, including \"Elegance and Decadence: The Age of the Regency\" (2011), \"Harlots, Housewives and Heroines: A 17th Century History for Girls\" (2012), \"The First Georgians: The German Kings Who Made Britain\" (2014),\" A Very British Romance \"(2015), \"Lucy Worsley: Mozart’s London Odyssey\" (2016), and \"Six Wives with Lucy Worsley\" (2016).\n\nWorsley was born in Reading, Berkshire. Her father, Peter Worsley (b. 1939), taught geology at Reading University, while her mother, Enid (\"née\" Kay; 1945) is a consultant in educational policy and practice. She has a younger brother, Tom Worsley (b. 1976), who lives in Oxfordshire with his wife and children. \n\nBefore going to university Worsley attended Abbey School, Reading, St Bartholomew's School, Newbury and West Bridgford School, Nottingham. She read Ancient and Modern History at New College, Oxford, graduating in 1995 with a BA First-class honours degree.\n\nDr. Worsley began her career as an historic house curator at Milton Manor, near Abingdon, in the summer of 1995. From 1996 to 2002, she was an Inspector of Historic Buildings for English Heritage in the East Midlands region. During that time she studied the life of William Cavendish, 1st Duke of Newcastle and wrote the English Heritage guide to his home, Bolsover Castle. In 2001 she was awarded a DPhil degree from the University of Sussex for a thesis on \"The Architectural Patronage of William Cavendish, first Duke of Newcastle, 1593–1676\". The thesis was later developed into Worsley's book \"Cavalier: A Tale of Chivalry, Passion and Great Houses\".\n\nDuring 2002–2003, she was Major Projects and Research Manager for Glasgow Museums before becoming Chief Curator at Historic Royal Palaces, the independent charity responsible for maintaining the Tower of London, Hampton Court Palace, Kensington Palace State Apartments, the Banqueting House in Whitehall and Kew Palace in Kew Gardens. She oversaw the £12 million refurbishment of the Kensington Palace state apartments and gardens.\n\nIn 2005 she was elected a senior research fellow at the Institute of Historical Research, University of London; she was also appointed visiting professor at Kingston University.\n\nIn 2011 she presented the four-part television series ' exploring the history of British homes, from peasants' cottages to palaces; and the three-part series '.\n\nIn 2012 she co-presented the three-part television series \"Antiques Uncovered\", with antiques and collectibles expert Mark Hill, and (broadcast at the same time) \"Harlots, Housewives and Heroines\", a three-part series on the lives of women after the Civil War and the Restoration of Charles II. Later that year she presented a documentary on Dorothy Hartley's \"Food in England\" as part of the BBC Four \"Food and Drink\" strand.\n\nHer BBC series \"A Very British Murder\" examined the \"morbid national obsession\" with murder. The series looked at a number of cases from the 19th century, beginning with the Ratcliff Highway murders which gained national attention in 1811, the Red Barn Murder of 1826 and the \"Bermondsey Horror\" case of Frederick and Maria Manning in 1849.\n\nIn 2014, the three-part series \"The First Georgians: The German Kings Who Made Britain\" explored the contributions of the German-born kings George I and George II. The series explained why the Hanoverian George I came to be chosen as a British monarch, how he was succeeded by his very different son George II and why, without either, the current United Kingdom would likely be a very different place. The series emphasises the positive influence of these kings whilst showing the flaws in each. \"A Very British Romance\", a three-part series for BBC Four, was based on the romantic novels to uncover the forces shaping our very British happily ever after and how our feelings have been affected by social, political and cultural ideas.\n\nIn 2016, Worsley presented the three-part documentary \"Empire of the Tsars: Romanov Russia with Lucy Worsley\" in January and \"Lucy Worsley: Mozart's London Odyssey\" in June. In September 2016, she was filming an upcoming series \"A Very British History\" for BBC Four. In December she presented and appeared in dramatized accounts of the three-part BBC series \"Six Wives with Lucy Worsley\". In 2017 she presented a three-part series entitled \"British History's Biggest Fibs with Lucy Worsley\", debunking historical views of the Wars of the Roses, the Glorious Revolution and the British occupation of India.\n\nIn 2014, BBC Books published her book, \"A Very British Murder\", which was based on the series. \nIn April 2016, Worsley published her debut children's novel, \"Eliza Rose\", about a young noble girl in a Tudor Court. In 2017, Worsley published a biography of Jane Austen titled \"Jane Austen at Home: A Biography\".\n\n\n\n\nWorsley lives in Southwark by the River Thames in south London with her husband, the architect Mark Hines, whom she married in November 2011. With reference to having children, Worsley says she has been \"educated out of normal reproductive function\". She later said her statement had been \"misinterpreted and sounded darker than I'd intended.\"\n\nAs a TV presenter, she is known for having a rhotacism, a minor speech impediment which affects her pronunciation of \"r\". When she made the move from BBC Four to BBC Two for the series \"Fit to Rule: How Royal Illness Changed History\", she worked with a speech and language therapist to help with her pronunciation, but to no avail.\n\nIn her teens, Worsley represented Berkshire at cross country running and, as a pastime, is still a keen participant in the sport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "673109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673109", "title": "László Tőkés", "text": "László Tőkés\n\nLászló Tőkés ( ; born 1 April 1952) is a Romanian-born Hungarian pastor and politician. He is a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for Hungary. He served as Vice President of the European Parliament from 2010 to 2012.\n\nA bishop of the Királyhágómellék Reformed Church District of the Reformed Church in Romania, he is also a former honorary president of the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania. He is the head of the Hungarian National Council of Transylvania, a civic organisation for Transylvanian Hungarians. Tőkés is closely associated with the Hungarian People's Party of Transylvania.\n\nAn effort to transfer him from his post as an assistant pastor in Timișoara and to evict him from his church flat helped trigger the Romanian Revolution, which overthrew Nicolae Ceauşescu and spelled the end of the communist era in Romania.\n\nHe is a member of the Reconciliation of European Histories Group, and co-sponsored the European Parliament resolution of 2 April 2009 on European conscience and totalitarianism.\n\nA native of Cluj, László Tőkés is the son of István Tőkés, professor of theology and former deputy bishop of the largely Hungarian Reformed Church. He was married to Edit Joó, with whom he has three children: sons Máté and Márton, and daughter Ilona. Máté Tőkés, who was only three years old during the Revolution of 1989, later collected the memories of the friends, relatives, and other participants of the events, and in 2005 wrote \"Egymás tükrében\" (\"In Each Other's Mirror\"), a book about his parents and the hardships of the family.\n\nIn March 2010, his wife filed for divorce. Edit Tőkés accused the bishop of \"numerous affairs\" and \"absurd habits\". The claims of infidelity and mistreatment were confirmed by a former counsellor of the pastor and the divorce sentence was issued in February 2011.\n\nLike his father, Tőkés was a persistent critic of the totalitarian Ceauşescu regime. While a pastor in the Transylvanian town of Dej, he contributed to the clandestine Hungarian-language journal \"Ellenpontok\" (\"Counterpoints\"; 1981–82). An article there on human rights abuses in Romania appears to have been the occasion of his first harassment by the secret police, the Securitate. He was reassigned to the village of Sânpetru de Câmpie, but refused to go and instead spent two years living in his parents' house in Cluj.\n\nHis situation was discussed in the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, which led indirectly to his appointment to be assistant pastor in Timișoara, where he gave sermons that opposed the Romanian national government's program of systematisation, which proposed radical restructuring of the infrastructure of Romanian towns and villages. Smaller villages were deemed \"irrational\" and listed for reduction of services or forced removal of the population and physical destruction. This included the destruction of historic churches and monasteries. The programme was seen by Hungarians and human rights activists as a particular threat to Hungarian villages, although Tőkés' sermons did not single this out, calling for solidarity between Hungarians and Romanians. The governments of Hungary and West Germany, concerned for their national minorities in Transylvania, protested against systematization.\n\nIn the summer of 1988, Tőkés organized opposition to systematisation among Hungarian Reformed Church pastors, again drawing the attention of the Securitate. After the Securitate objected to a cultural festival organized on 31 October 1988 (Reformation Day), jointly with the amateur Hungarian-language theatre group \"Thalia\", Bishop László Papp banned all youth activities in the Banat (the region Timișoara is part of). Tőkés nonetheless worked together with the bishop of the Romanian Orthodox Church on another festival in spring 1989.\n\nOn March 20, 1989, Tőkés gave a secretly taped TV interview to two Canadians - former politician Michel Clair and Radio-Canada journalist Réjean Roy (released as \"Dracula's Shadow – The Real Story Behind the Romanian Revolution\"). The two were helped by a small group from Székesfehérvár in Hungary who smuggled in videotapes and video cameras. The secret mission would have dire consequences. (\"Timisoara\" by Árpád Szőczi.)\n\nOn 31 March 1989, Papp ordered Tőkés to stop preaching in Timișoara and move to the isolated parish of Mineu. Tőkés refused the order, and his congregation supported him. \n\nOn July 24, 1989, the Hungarian State TV investigative show \"Panorama\" broadcast the secretly-taped TV interview with Tőkés. Two days later Bishop Papp sent Tőkés a letter, accusing him of slandering the state and saying lies in the interview, and ordered his expulsion.\n\nThe bishop began civil proceedings to evict him from his church flat. His power was cut off and his ration book taken away, but his parishioners continued to support and provide for him. The state had some arrested and beaten. At least one, Ernő Ujvárossy, was found murdered in the woods outside Timișoara on 14 September, and Tőkés's father was briefly arrested.\n\nIn the interview in July 1989, to Hungarian television, Tőkés complained that the Romanians do not even know their human rights. Tőkés explained the message and effect of this interview in a German TV series on the collapse of the Iron Curtain in 2008:\nA court ordered Tőkés' eviction on 20 October. He appealed. On 2 November, four attackers armed with knives broke into his flat; Securitate agents looked on while he and his friends fought off the assailants. The Romanian ambassador was summoned to the Hungarian Foreign Ministry and told of the Hungarian government's concern for his safety. His appeal was turned down, and his eviction set for Friday 15 December.\n\nForeign broadcasters also began showing the secretly-taped TV interview, such as ABC's \"Nightline\" in the U.S.\n\nAs 15 December approached, Tőkés’ parishioners began something of a vigil outside his flat, refusing two guards’ orders to move along. On 15 December, a human chain was formed around the block; the militia were unable to gain access. Tőkés thanked the crowd but advised them to leave, but several hundred stayed in groups close to the flat. His wife, Edit, who was pregnant at the time, fell ill. On 16 December, the family doctor appeared to see Edit. Within half an hour, the mayor of Timișoara appeared with three more doctors, hoping to persuade Edit to head to a hospital. On the advice of their family doctor, she refused.\n\nShortly afterward, workmen arrived to repair the damaged windows and door to the flat; presumably the mayor was hoping to defuse matters, but the crowds actually grew, with some young Romanians joining the Hungarian parishioners. Tőkés spoke with the mayor and again urged the crowd to disperse. The crowd remained; the mayor stormed away, returned at noon, and promised that Tőkés would not be evicted. The crowd remained; some of them accused Tőkés of collaborating with the authorities and demanded a written retraction of Tőkés’ transfer and eviction. The mayor promised to produce this within an hour; if he actually intended to do so, it proved impossible on a Saturday.\n\nAfter various negotiations with the mayor and the deputy mayor and the involvement of various delegations, the mayor gave an ultimatum for the crowd to disperse by 5 pm or face fire-brigade water cannons. Tőkés again pleaded with the crowd to disperse, but, possibly convinced that he was acting under threats from the Securitate, they refused. The crowd beckoned him to leave his apartment and come down to the street. He refused, presumably fearful of being seen as the leader of this resistance.\n\n5 pm came and went without water cannons. By 7 pm the crowds extended for several blocks and included many students from the local polytechnic and university, Hungarians and Romanians in a human chain, first singing hymns, but about 7:30 launching into the patriotic song Deşteaptă-te, române! (\"Wake up, O, Romanian!\"), banned in 1947 at the beginning of the communist dictatorship and sung during the November 1987 protests in Braşov.\n\nIn Deletant's words, \"The Hungarian protest had now become a Romanian revolt.\" Cries were raised, \"Down with Ceauşescu!\" \"Down with the regime!\" and \"Down with Communism!\" The crowd moved out from around Tőkés' flat and church, crossed a bridge, and headed for the city centre and Communist Party headquarters, where they threw stones before militia drove them back toward the church around 10 pm and the water cannons finally came into play. However, the crowd seized the cannons, broke them up, and threw the parts into the river Bega. A general spirit of roving riot ensued.\n\nDemonstrations continued the next two days. On Sunday, 17 December, the army fired into the crowd. The number of casualties has been a matter of dispute; early reports were undoubtedly exaggerated. The number of deaths was 73 for the period 16–22 December 1989, and another 20 for the period after Ceauşescu fled. On Elena Ceauşescu's orders, 40 of the dead were transported by truck to Bucharest and cremated to make identification impossible.\n\nOn 18 December, tens of thousands of industrial workers in Timișoara peacefully took up the protest; by 20 December the city was effectively in insurrection.\n\nThe news of the protests and the violent government crackdown spread quickly across Romania and triggered many more protests. They quickly escalated into the Romanian Revolution of 1989 that overthrew Ceauşescu and the Communist government.\n\nAfter the dispossession of the discredited Communist bishop of Oradea, László Papp in 1989, Tőkés was elected as a bishop of the Királyhágómellék Reformed Church District. He was re-elected most recently in 2004 for another six-year term. During his tenure, he worked hard for the reorganization of the disintegrated church and the renewal of spiritual life. He emphasized the importance of Hungarian-language education, social responsibility, and missionary work. It was his top priority to win back the properties and schools of the church that had been confiscated by the Communist government, but ownership-restoration in Romania is proved to be an extremely difficult, slow and—so far—unsuccessful process.\n\nIn spite of financial difficulties, he established new social and educational institutions instead of the old ones. The Christian University of Partium in Oradea was one of the bishop's favorite projects as the first Hungarian-language private university in Romania (opened in 1999). His other notable initiatives are the child-care center in Oradea, an orphanage in Aleşd, Bethesda Health-Care Centre in Arduzel, Peter Reformed Elementary School in Salonta, and a nursing home in Tinca. The Lórántffy Zsuzsanna Ecclesiastical Centre of the Hungarian Reformed Church with a museum, auditorium, and social care centre was inaugurated in 1996.\n\nIn 2007 Tőkés decided to run for the European Parliament as an independent, receiving the backing of Hungary's Fidesz. At the November election, he gained enough votes to win a seat. In competition with the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania, the main party of Romania's Hungarians, Tőkés was accused, for instance by a leading politician of that party, György Frunda, of splitting the Hungarian vote. Frunda also claimed that Tőkés was helped by President Băsescu and noted that he received 18,000 votes from the historically-named Wallachia and Moldavia regions of Romania, places where few Hungarians live.\n\nAn unbowed Tőkés commented on election night, \"I knocked out the Greater Romania Party\", referring to the fact that while he had won a seat, the far right, anti-Hungarian Greater Romania Party had lost all five of its own.\n\nIn June 2009, in Washington, D.C., he was awarded the Truman-Reagan Medal of Freedom for his role in the struggles against Romanian communism.\n\nIn May 2010, he became one of the 14 vice-presidents of the European Parliament. He was elected by 334 votes in favour and 287 abstentions, replacing Pál Schmitt.\n\nHe is a signatory of the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism.\n\nIn 2014 he was the third on the list of Fidesz for the European Parliament election.\n\nPresident Klaus Iohannis announced in 2016 that he decided to withdraw the Order of the Star of Romania distinction from László Tőkés. “The matter reached my table and I have to make a decision. In my opinion, we should consider certain issues when analysing such questions. The one who grants a distinction wishes to reward the person distinguished, the one who receives and accepts the distinction must recognise Romania and the Constitution of Romania, to appreciate the values that stay at the grounds of the Constitution of Romania. Considering all this, I have decided to withdraw the “Romania Star” Order from mister László Tőkés,” the head of state said at the Cotroceni Palace.\n\nIn 1990 he received the Four Freedom Award for the Freedom of Worship\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22891277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22891277", "title": "Michael Gateley", "text": "Michael Gateley\n\nMichael Anthony Gateley (13 June 1904 – ?) was an Indian field hockey player who competed in the 1928 Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1928 he was a member of the Indian field hockey team, which won the gold medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "873363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=873363", "title": "Miriam Rothschild", "text": "Miriam Rothschild\n\nDame Miriam Louisa Rothschild (5 August 1908 – 20 January 2005) was a British natural scientist and author with contributions to zoology, entomology, and botany.\n\nMiriam Rothschild was born in 1908 in Ashton Wold, near Oundle in Northamptonshire, the daughter of Charles Rothschild of the Rothschild family of Jewish bankers and Rozsika Edle Rothschild (\"née\" von Wertheimstein), a Hungarian sportswoman. Her brother was Victor Rothschild, 3rd Baron Rothschild and one of her sisters (Kathleen Annie) Pannonica Rothschild (Baroness Nica de Koenigswarter) would later be a bebop jazz enthusiast and patroness of Thelonious Monk and Charlie Parker.\n\nHer father had described about 500 new species of flea, and her uncle Lionel Walter Rothschild had built a private natural history museum at Tring. By the age of four she had started collecting ladybird beetles and caterpillars and taking a tame quail to bed with her. World War I broke on the eve of Miriam's sixth birthday in 1914, while the Rothschilds were holidaying in Austro-Hungary. They hurried home on the first westward train but, unable to pay, had to borrow money from a Hungarian passenger who commented \"This is the proudest moment of my life. Never did I think that I should be asked to lend money to a Rothschild!\" Her father died when she was 15 and she became closer to her uncle. She was educated at home until the age of 17, when she demanded to go to school. She thence attended evening classes in zoology at Chelsea College of Science and Technology. \n\nDuring the 1930s she made a name for herself at the Marine Biological Station in Plymouth, studying the mollusc \"Nucula\" and its trematode parasites (Rothschild 1936, 1938a, 1938b). Because of her inherited wealth, she never had to apply for any grants or funding. As a result of this and her lack of formal education—all her doctorates were honorary—she would always be an \"amateur\".\n\nPrior to World War II, she pressed the UK Government to admit more German Jews as refugees from Nazi Germany. During the war, she worked at Bletchley Park on codebreaking.\n\nIn 1943, she married Captain George Lane, MC. a WW2 commando, who was a non-practicing Hungarian Jew whose surname had been changed from Lanyi for security reasons.They had seven children, four of which survived to adulthood. The marriage was dissolved in 1957 and in 1963 Lane married Elizabeth Heald, daughter of Sir Lionel Heald.\n\nRothschild was a leading authority on fleas. She was the first person to work out the flea's jumping mechanism. She also studied the flea's reproductive cycle and linked this, in rabbits, to the hormonal changes within the host. Her New Naturalist book on parasitism (\"Fleas, Flukes and Cuckoos\") was a huge success. Its title can be explained as: external parasites (e.g. fleas), internal parasites (e.g. flukes) and others (the cuckoo is a 'brood parasite'). The Rothschild Collection of Fleas (founded by Charles Rothschild) is now part of the Natural History Museum collection, and her catalogue of the collection (in collaboration with G. H. E. Hopkins) is a master-work. \n\nRothschild was a member of the Oxford genetics school during the 1960s, where she met the ecological geneticist E.B. Ford. She was one of the few women with whom Ford was on good terms and she campaigned with Ford for the legalisation of homosexuality.\n\nRothschild authored books about her father (\"Rothschild's Reserves – time and fragile nature\") and her uncle (\"Dear Lord Rothschild\"). She wrote about 350 papers on entomology, zoology and other subjects.\n\nRothschild founded the 'Schizophrenia Research Fund' in 1962, an independent registered charity formed “to advance the better understanding, prevention, treatment and cure of all forms of mental illness and in particular of the illness known as Schizophrenia”. In March 2006, following her death, the name of the Fund was changed in her memory to the 'Miriam Rothschild Schizophrenia Research Fund'. The pioneer of British Art Therapy, Edward Adamson and his partner and collaborator, John Timlin, were regular visitors to Ashton Wold. Between 1983 and 1997, the influential Adamson Collection of 6000 paintings, drawings, sculptures and ceramics by people living with major mental disorder at Netherne Hospital, created with Adamson’s encouragement in his progressive art studios at the hospital, was housed and displayed to the public in a medieval barn at Ashton. Rothschild was both a Trustee and, subsequently, Patron of the Adamson Collection Trust. \"All my life,\" she said, \"I have tilted against hopeless windmills\". The Adamson Collection is now almost all re-located to the Wellcome Library. All Adamson's papers, correspondence, photographs and other material are currently being organised as the 'Edward Adamson Archive', also at the Wellcome Library.\n\nRothschild was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1985 and was made a Dame in 2000. In 1973 she was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She received honorary doctorates from eight universities, including Oxford and Cambridge. She gave the Romanes Lecture for 1984–5 in Oxford.\n\nIn 1986 the John Galway Foster Human Rights Trust was established; in 2006 the name of the trust was expanded to The Miriam Rothschild & John Foster Human Rights Trust. This funds an annual lecture on human rights.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "86045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=86045", "title": "Modron", "text": "Modron\n\nModron (\"mother\") is a figure in Welsh tradition, known as the mother of the hero Mabon ap Modron. Both characters may have derived from earlier divine figures, in her case the Gaulish goddess Matrona. She may have been a prototype for Morgan le Fay from the Arthurian legend.\n\nModron largely features in the Welsh tradition as a supernatural mother figure. She likely derives from the Celtic goddess Matrona, known to have been worshiped in Gaul. Similarly, Modron's son, Mabon (\"youth\"), appears to derive from the youth god Maponos. \n\nBoth Matrona and Maponos were worshiped in the area around Hadrian's Wall, which may account for the prominence of Modron and Mabon in literature connected to the Brittonic \"Hen Ogledd\" (Old North) of Britain. \n\nCertain elements of Modron's story – specifically that her son Mabon was stolen from her in the night as a baby – suggest a connection with Rhiannon in the First Branch of the Mabinogi, whose son Pryderi was similarly stolen; William John Gruffydd suggested that Modron and Rhiannon were the same in origin.\n\nJohn T. Koch suggests that Saint Madrun, a daughter of Vortimer, may also be connected, based on the similarity of the names and some elements of their stories. Other scholars believe the names \"Modron\" and \"Madrun\" are likely to be etymologically distinct; Madrun comes from the Vulgar Latin name Matrōna (also a common noun \"matrōna\" \"matron\", from Classical Latin \"mātrōna\"), while Modron is from the Gallo-Brittonic theonym \"*Mātronā\" \"Mother (goddess)\".\n\nThe first reference to the name Modron may be in the poem \"Pa Gur yv y Porthaur\", in which \"Mabon am Mydron\", a \"servant of Uthr Bendragon\", is listed as one of King Arthur's warriors. \n\nA \"Mabon am Melld\" or \"Mabon fab Mellt\" (Mabon son of Lightning) also appears in \"Pa Gur\" and elsewhere; this may be a different character, but it is also possible that \"Mellt\" is Mabon's father (perhaps related to \"Meldos\", an epithet of the lightning god Loucetios). \n\nModron's most substantial appearance in Welsh literature is in the prose tale \"Culhwch and Olwen\". The text states that Mabon was stolen from between her and the wall by unknown forces when he was only three days old, and no one had seen him since. Recovering Mabon from his mysterious captors is one of the various challenges faced by King Arthur and his men in the story, and the adventure comprises a significant portion of the text. Arthur's men locate Mabon with the assistance of a series of wise and ancient animals, and liberate him in battle. Subsequently, he joins Arthur and assists in the hunt for the great boar Twrch Trwyth.\n\nThe Welsh Triads giver her father as Afallach, a figure evidently connected to the island of Avalon. In Triad 70, Modron is the mother of the twins Owain and Morfudd by Urien Rheged. The triad seems to be connected to a story found in MS Peniarth 147 describing Owain and Morfudd's birth to an unnamed otherworldly woman. Here, Urien investigates a mysterious ford in Denbighshire where dogs went to bark. He find a washer woman, and has his way with her. She reveals that she had been condemned to wash at the ford until she conceived a son by \"a Christian\", and bids Urien to return at the end of the year to receive the child. On returning, Urien finds the twins Owain and Morfudd.\n\nModron is connected with \"Euron\" in the poem \"Cad Goddeu\" (\"The Battle of the Trees\"), which associates her with characters known from the Third Branch of the Mabinogi. Euron may an error for \"Gwron\"; John T. Koch suggests the name may ultimately derive from an older form *\"Uironos\", meaning \"divine man, husband, hero\", implying he is Modron's spouse. Modron's name (connected to Mabon) also appears in \"Englynion y Beddau\" (\"Stanzas of the Graves\").\n\n"}
{"id": "422729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422729", "title": "Morgause", "text": "Morgause\n\nMorgause , also known as Morgawse and other spellings and names, is a character in later Arthurian traditions. In some versions of the legend, including Thomas Malory's 15th-century text \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", she is the mother of Gawain and Mordred, both key players in the story of King Arthur and his downfall. Mordred is the offspring of Arthur's inadvertent incest with Morgause, the king's estranged half-sister. She is also a sister of Morgan le Fay and the wife of King Lot of Orkney, as well as the mother of Gareth, Agravain, and Gaheris.\n\nThe corresponding character of Arthur's sister in Geoffrey of Monmouth's 12th-century Latin chronicle \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" is named Anna. In Wolfram von Eschenbach's \"Parzival\", Anna is replaced by Sangive (whom Der Pleier calls Seife), while her parallel in \"Arthour and Merlin\" (late 14th century) is Belisent (Bellicent) and the mother of Gawain's Welsh forerunner, Gwalchmei ap Gwyar, is thought to be Gwyar (a name meaning \"gore\").\n\nThe earliest known form of Morgause's name is Orcades, given in the First Continuation of Chrétien de Troyes' \"Perceval\" (the former of which was once attributed to Wauchier de Denain and dated c. 1200), in which she is the mother of her sons Gawain, Agravain, Gaheris, Gareth and Mordred, and her daughters Clarissant and Soredamor. As Morcades she also appears in \"Les Enfances Gauvain\" (early 13th century) and again in Heinrich von dem Türlin's \"Diu Crône\" (c. 1230). It appears her name was originally a place name, as \"Orcades\" coincides with the Latin name for the Orkney Islands, the land traditionally ruled by Gawain's parents. Medievalist Roger Sherman Loomis suggests that this toponym was corrupted into \"Morcades\" (or \"Morchades\", \"Morcads\") and finally \"Morgause\" due to the influence of the name \"Morgan\".\n\nHer character is fully developed in Thomas Malory's 1485 compilation of Arthurian legends \"Le Morte d'Arthur\", in which Morgause (Margawse) is one of three daughters born to Gorlois of Tintagel, Duke of Cornwall, and the Lady Igraine. According to Malory, her mother is widowed and then remarried to Uther Pendragon, after which she and her sisters, Elaine and Morgan (\"le Fay\", later the mother of Ywain), are married off to allies or vassals of their stepfather. Morgause is wed to the Orcadian King Lot and bears him four sons, all of whom go on to serve Arthur as Knights of the Round Table: Gawain, one of his greatest knights; Agravain, a wretched and twisted traitor; Gaheris; and Gareth, a gentle and loving knight.\n\nYears later, her spouse joins the failed rebellions against Arthur that follow in the wake of King Uther's death and the subsequent coronation of his heir. Shortly after her husband's defeat, Morgause visits the young King Arthur in his bedchamber, ignorant of their familial relationship, and they conceive Mordred. Her husband, who has unsuspectingly raised Mordred as his own son, is slain in battle by King Pellinore. Her sons depart their father's court to take service at Camelot, where Gawain and Gaheris avenge Lot's death by killing Pellinore, thereby launching a blood feud between the two families. \n\nNevertheless, Morgause has an affair with Sir Lamorak, a son of Pellinore and one of Arthur's best knights. Her son Gaheris discovers them \"in flagrante\" and swiftly beheads Morgause in bed, but spares her unarmed lover. Gaheris is consequently banished from court of Arthur (though he reappears later in the narrative). \n\nIn modern Arthuriana, the character of Morgause is often conflated with that of Morgan le Fay; in John Boorman's film \"Excalibur\" (1981), for instance, Morgause's role as the mother of Mordred is transferred to \"Morgana\". According to E. R. Huber, \"What becomes clear on reading \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" and its medieval predecessors is that Morgause was not a villain until the modern period.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24083233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24083233", "title": "Nikolay and Medea Figner", "text": "Nikolay and Medea Figner\n\nNikolay Figner (1857–1918), lyric tenor, and Medea Figner (1859–1952), mezzo-soprano, later soprano, were a husband-and-wife team of opera singers active in Russia between 1889 and 1904. Medea was Italian-born (her original surname was Mei) but she became completely Russianized after marrying Nikolay. They had separate careers before their wedding, and again after their divorce in 1904, but during the 15 years of their marriage they almost always sang in the same performances. They created the main tenor and soprano roles in two operas by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky – \"The Queen of Spades\" and \"Iolanta\" – and appeared in a number of other important Russian musical premieres.\n\nNikolay Nikolayevich Figner was born in Nikiforovka, near Kazan, on 9/21 February 1857. He was a brother of the famous \"People's Will\" revolutionary, Vera Figner (1852–1942). He joined the Russian Navy as a midshipman, and rose to the rank of lieutenant, retiring in 1881 to study voice with Vassily Samus, I. P. Pryanishnikova and Camille Everardi at the Saint Petersburg Conservatory.\n\nFigner then travelled to Italy, where he made his debut at Naples in Gounod's \"Philémon et Baucis\" in 1882. He sang at the San Carlo Theatre and appeared at other Italian venues for a number of years. While in Italy, Figner took the opportunity to study with the prominent singing teacher Francesco Lamperti and also received instruction from E. de Roxas. Figner performed, too, in Madrid, Bucharest and London (at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden). He travelled to South America as well during this period. On 4 November 1886, in Turin, he sang the principal tenor role in the world premiere of the revised version of Alfredo Catalani's \"Edmea\"; this was also the occasion of Arturo Toscanini's first appearance as a conductor in Italy after his initial triumph in South America. During his travels, he sang roles such as Arnold in Rossini's \"William Tell\", the Duke in Verdi's \"Rigoletto\", and Carlo in Donizetti's \"Linda di Chamounix\". He also happened to appear on stage with Medea Mei in a production of Donizetti's \"La favorite\"; they formed a liaison, and he brought her back to Russia in 1887. Two years later, they wed. Figner soon established himself as the leading tenor at the Mariinsky Theatre, retaining this status until 1903.\n\nOther Russian composers whose operas he sang were Alexander Borodin (Vladimir in \"Prince Igor\"), Alexander Dargomyzhsky (the Prince in \"Rusalka\"), and Anton Rubinstein (Sinodal in \"The Demon\"). A good-looking man, he projected a memorable stage presence and sang with sensitivity and style.\n\nMedea Mei was born in Florence, Italy, on 4 March 1859. She studied there with Bianchi, Carozzi-Zucchi and Panofka. She sang the mezzo-soprano role in Verdi's \"Requiem\" at the young age of 16, and made her operatic debut soon afterwards, as Azucena in \"Il trovatore\", at Sinaluga. She became well known throughout Italy, and also toured Spain, South America and Russia and visited London. Her repertoire then included Ulrica in \"Un ballo in maschera\", Amneris in \"Aida\", Gertrude in Ambroise Thomas's \"Hamlet\", Leonora in Donizetti's \"La favorite\", and the title role in Bizet's \"Carmen\". She latter added soprano roles such as Charlotte in Massenet's \"Werther\", and Margherita in Boito's \"Mefistofele\".\nMedea went to Russia with Nikolay Figner in 1887, making her debut there on 8 May at the St Petersburg Imperial Opera (the Mariinsky Theatre) as Valentine in Meyerbeer's \"Les Huguenots\". The soprano knew no Russian at that time, and sang in Italian during the first two St Petersburg seasons. Subsequently, she was received into the Russian Orthodox Church, and married Figner on 20 February 1889. Thereafter, Nikolay made it his practice to sing only in operas in which Medea was also singing.\n\nShe was referred to after marriage as either Medea Mei-Figner (the form of her name used in most Western reference books) or simply Medea Figner. Furthermore, she was given the patronymic of Ivanovna, and is sometimes designated as Medea (or Medeya) Ivanovna (Mei-)Figner. She eventually mastered Russian to such an extent that native speakers could not tell she had learned it only from the age of 30.\n\nNotably, Medea appeared as Mimi in the first performance of Giacomo Puccini's \"La bohème\" in Russia; she was coached by Puccini himself.\n\nMedea Mei-Figner is the great-great-grandmother of the Italian soprano Amarilli Nizza.\n\nBoth the Figners were considered to be outstanding actors: their first appearance together in Bizet's \"Carmen\", as Carmen and Don José, produced an ovation said to be unprecedented in the history of Russian opera.\n\nThey were highly regarded by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, who wrote the roles of Hermann and Liza in \"The Queen of Spades\" for them. They created the roles in the world premiere of this opera, on 19 December 1890, after rehearsing under Tchaikovsky's personal supervision. Medea was in the early stages of pregnancy at the time. In 1891, when she was unable to continue to appear in \"The Queen of Spades\" due to her condition, Nikolay refused to sing with a substitute soprano, and so the opera was removed from the program until Medea was able to return.\n\nThe Figners also created the title soprano role and that of the tenor part of Count Vaudémont in Tchaikovsky's opera \"Iolanta\" in 1892. Tchaikovsky dedicated his Six Romances, Op. 73 (1893) to Nikolay Figner. Nikolay spent time with Tchaikovsky in the days following the premiere of his Symphony No. 6 \"Pathetique\". Later, he visited Modest Tchaikovsky's apartment during the composer's final illness. He returned there immediately after Tchaikovsky's death, helping Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov to lay out the body.\n\nBy no means, however, did the Figners confine their joint operatic activities to the compositions of Tchaikovsky. For example, they created the main roles in Eduard Nápravník's \"Dubrovsky\" and \"Francesca da Rimini\".\n\nOther operas in which the Figners performed as a team included: Tchaikovsky's \"Eugene Onegin\" (Nikolay's Lensky was said to have been surpassed only by Leonid Sobinov's interpretation) and \"The Oprichnik\"; Verdi's \"Aida\", \"La traviata\" and \"Otello\" (singing in the latter work's 1889 Russian premiere); Gounod's \"Faust\" and \"Roméo et Juliette\"; Auber's \"Fra Diavolo\"; and the Russian premieres of Mascagni's \"Cavalleria rusticana\", Puccini's \"Tosca\" and Leoncavallo's \"Pagliacci\". Oddly, they never appeared in works written by Rimsky-Korsakov, who was the most prolific operatic composer in Tsarist Russia. It has been suggested that the reason for this gap in their repertoire was personal: they had asked Rimsky-Korsakov to write an opera for them, or to make some changes to his existing work \"May Night\", but the composer apparently refused to oblige and this may have offended the Figners.\n\nThe Figners divorced in 1904. Medea made a tour of South America and returned to continue a solo career at the Mariinsky Theatre in St. Petersburg. From 1910 to 1915 Nikolay directed and sang with the Narodny Dom opera company in Saint Petersburg. Medea's farewell performance was in the title role in \"Carmen\" in 1912. In 1917 Nikolay moved to the Ukraine, where he taught at the Kiev Conservatory. He lost most of his possessions during the Russian Revolution of 1917, and died in poverty in Kiev on 13 December 1918, aged 61. Medea left Soviet Russia in 1930 and settled in Paris, where she died on 8 July 1952, at the age of 93.\n\nBoth of their voices can be heard on the LP anthology \"The Record of Singing\", while a comprehensive selection of their recordings was released on compact disc by the Symposium label in 2000. This double set of CDs bears the catalogue numbers 1255/1256.\n\nImportantly, Medea Mei-Figner recorded \"Lisa's aria\" from \"The Queen of Spades\" with the alternative low ending sanctioned by the composer. She also made discs of \"Vissi d'arte\" from \"Tosca\" and arias from \"Werther\" and \"Carmen\", as well as recording a number of songs, including \"Penso\" by Paolo Tosti. Her voice was considered by contemporary critics to be more beautiful and more impressive than that of her husband. He was already past his vocal prime when he and his wife cut their first series of 78-rpm records in St Petersburg in 1901–02 for EMI's predecessor, the Gramophone & Typewriter Company.\n\nThe Danish journalist Knut de Hageman-Lindenkrone conducted a long recorded interview with Medea Mei at her Parisian apartment in 1949, when the singer was 90 years old. The interview is in French, although Medea Mei may be heard to speak as well in Italian and Russian with her daughter, who was also present. She even sings a few bars of music here and there, including both the first phrase and the last from Liza's aria, 'Midnight is Approaching', from Tchaikovsky's \"The Queen of Spades\", which she had created 59 years before.\n\nThis fascinating hour-long interview, with unique memories of Tchaikovsky and other fabled events of Mme Mei's Saint-Petersburg career, was included in a Rubini Records set of two long-playing records, c. 1975, that also featured Medea Mei-Figner's complete commercially recorded output from the beginning of the 20th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36539406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36539406", "title": "Ogenyi Onazi", "text": "Ogenyi Onazi\n\nOgenyi Eddy Onazi (born 25 December 1992) is a Nigerian footballer who plays as a central midfielder for Turkish club Trabzonspor and the Nigeria national football team.\n\nOnazi began playing football in the streets of Jos in 1998. His football skills and abilities drew a lot of attention to him and afforded him the opportunity to play in some academies in the city.\n\nHis footballing abilities came to prominence when he moved to the city of Lagos to play for My People.\n\nOnazi joined Lazio in 2011, alongside his teammate, Sani Emmanuel. The pair trialled in England, Greece and Italy following appearances at the 2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup, in which Nigeria reached the final on home soil, losing to Switzerland.\n\nOnazi was first promoted to the Lazio first team during the 2011–12 season after appearing at youth level. He made his Serie A debut as a substitute in the penultimate match of the season, replacing Senad Lulić in the 90th minute. Lazio recorded a 2–0 victory over Atalanta at the Stadio Atleti Azzurri d'Italia in Bergamo.\n\nIn the following 2012–2013 season, Onazi was granted more playing time Under coach Vladimir Petković featuring in a defensive midfielder role alongside Cristian Ledesma. Notably, he started in a UEFA Europa League match against Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane, which ended in a 0–0 draw. On 7 March 2013, he scored his first goal for Lazio against Stuttgart in the last sixteen of the Europa League. He scored his first Serie A goal in a 3–1 win over Inter Milan on 8 May 2013.\n\nOn 13 April 2014, he scored his second Serie A goal for Lazio in a 4–2 defeat to Napoli.\n\nOn 22 September 2014, Onazi signed a two-year contract extension with Lazio until 2018. Lazio had previously received transfer enquiries in the summer transfer window by three Premier League clubs Everton, Southampton and Sunderland with interest from German, French, Spanish and Russian clubs also being reported. On 31 May 2015, his 88th-minute goal for the final score of 3–2 in Lazio's win over Napoli helped secure the last Champions League place for the club.\n\nOn 2 August 2016 he was transferred to Trabzonspor for €3.5 million.\n\nAs a 16-year-old, Onazi represented his country at the 2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup, where Nigeria finished runners-up. However, he was overlooked for selection at the 2011 FIFA U-20 World Cup two years later, despite participating in the training camps in Portugal and Panama.\n\nHe made his debut for the senior Nigeria national team in an African Cup of Nations qualification match against Liberia. His first goal came in his second international match, a 3–1 friendly win over Venezuela in Florida.\n\nOnazi was called up to Nigeria's 23-man squad for the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations. He came on as a substitute in Nigeria's first match of the tournament against Burkina Faso, whom they would eventually face again in the final, before going to on to play every minute of all Nigeria's games in the knockout phase, including the final.\n\nHe was selected for Nigeria's squad at the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup. but missed out of the tournament as he suffered a slight knee knock a few weeks before the competition.\n\nOnazi was named in Nigeria's final squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil and started in all four games as Nigeria were eliminated by France in the round of 16. He was also part of the squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia., although he did not figure in any of the team's three matches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10775498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10775498", "title": "Ozjasz Thon", "text": "Ozjasz Thon\n\nAbraham Ozjasz Thon (also Osias, anglicized spelling; 13 February 1870 in Lviv – 11 November 1936 in Kraków) was a rabbi, early Zionist, and leader of the Jewish community in Poland.\n\nThon studied philosophy and sociology under George Simmel. As a student, he assisted Theodor Herzl in the ideological preparations for the First Zionist Congress, and in 1897 published a groundbreaking philosophical study of Zionism, \"Zur geschichtsphilosophischen Begrendung des Zionismus\". Thon wrote literary and scientific academic works and journalistic essays, and a 1910 work on the philosophical and sociological methods of Herbert Spencer.\n\nIn 1897, Ozjasz Thon was appointed to the rabbinate of Krakow, a position he held until his death. He was the rabbi of the Tempel Synagogue of the more religiously-liberal constituency within the Jewish community. He promoted a Zionist program despite the overall assimilationist trends prevalent in the Jewish community at that time, and was an adherent of Ahad Ha'Am's school of Jewish identity.\n\nIn 1906, Thon made an unsuccessful bid to represent the Jewish National Party in Kolomyya, Eastern Galicia, in the elections to the Austrian parliament. He continued his political activities and expanded them after the First World War. He represented the Western Galician Jewish National Council at the Versailles Peace Conference. In 1919, Thon was elected to the first Sejm and served in the Polish parliament until 1931, where his oratory received a hearing even among antisemitic MPs.\n\nThon died on 11 November 1936 and is buried in Krakow's New Jewish Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "23495165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23495165", "title": "Paul Néaoutyine", "text": "Paul Néaoutyine\n\nPaul Néaoutyine (born October 12, 1951 in Poindimié) is a New Caledonian politician. A Kanak of the Saint-Michel tribe, he has been president of the North Province of New Caledonia since 1999. He is a supporter of New Caledonian independence.\n"}
{"id": "74423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74423", "title": "Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours", "text": "Pierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours\n\nPierre Samuel du Pont de Nemours (; ; 14 December 1739 – 7 August 1817) was a French writer, economist, publisher and government official. During the French Revolution, he, his two sons and their families emigrated to the United States.\n\nHis son Éleuthère Irénée du Pont was the founder of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company. He was the patriarch and progenitor of one of the United States' most successful and wealthiest business dynasties of the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nPierre du Pont was born December 14, 1739, the son of Samuel du Pont and Anne Alexandrine de Montchanin. His father was a watchmaker and French Protestant, or Huguenot. His mother was a descendant of an impoverished minor noble family from Burgundy.\n\nDu Pont married Nicole-Charlotte Marie-Louise le Dée de Rencourt in 1766, also of a minor noble family. They had three sons: Victor Marie (1767–1827), a manufacturer and politician; Paul François (December 1769–January 1770); and Éleuthère Irénée (1771–1834), the founder of E.I. duPont de Nemours and Company in the United States. Nicole-Charlotte died 3 September 1784 of typhoid.\n\nWith a lively intelligence and high ambition, Pierre became estranged from his father, who wanted him to be a watchmaker. The younger man developed a wide range of acquaintances with access to the French court during the \"Ancien Régime\" period. Eventually he became the protégé of Dr. François Quesnay, the personal physician of Louis XV's mistress, Madame de Pompadour. Quesnay was the leader of a faction known as the \"économistes,\" a group of liberals at the court dedicated to economic and agricultural reforms. By the early 1760s du Pont's writings on the national economy had drawn the attention of intellectuals such as Voltaire and Turgot. His 1768 book on physiocracy (\"Physiocratie, Ou Constitution Naturelle du Gouvernement le Plus Avantageux au Genre Humain\") advocated low tariffs and free trade among nations, deeply influenced Adam Smith of Scotland.\n\nIn 1768, he took over from Nicolas Baudeau, editor of \"Ephémérides du citoyen ou Bibliothèque raisonnée des sciences morales et politiques.\" He published \"Observations sur l'Esclavage des Negres\" in Volume 6.\n\nIn 1774, he was invited by King Stanisław August Poniatowski of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth to help organize that country's educational system. The appointment to the Commission of National Education, with which he worked for several months, helped push his career forward, bringing him an appointment within the French government.\n\nHe served as Inspector General of Commerce under Louis XVI. He helped negotiate the treaty of 1783, by which Great Britain formally recognized the independence of the United States, and arranged the terms of a commercial treaty signed by France and England in 1786.\n\nIn 1784, he was ennobled by \"lettres patentes\" (letters patent) from the king Louis XVI (a process known as \"noblesse de lettres\"), which added the \"de Nemours\" (\"of Nemours\") suffix to his name to reflect his residence.\n\nDu Pont initially supported the French Revolution and served as president of the National Constituent Assembly.\n\nHe and his son Eleuthère were among those who physically defended Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette from a mob besieging the Tuileries Palace in Paris during the insurrection of 10 August 1792. Condemned to the guillotine during the Reign of Terror, du Pont's execution was pending when Robespierre fell on 9 thermidor an IV (27 July 1794), and he was spared.\n\nHe married Françoise Robin on 5 vendémiaire an IV (27 September 1795). Robin was the daughter of Antoine Robin de Livet, a French aristocrat who lived in Lyon, and the widow of Pierre Poivre, the noted French administrator. After du Pont's house was sacked by a mob during the events of 18 Fructidor V (4 September 1797), he, his sons and their families immigrated to the United States in 1799.\n\nThey hoped (but failed) to found a model community of French exiles. In the United States, du Pont developed strong ties with industry and government, in particular with Thomas Jefferson, with whom he had been acquainted since at least 1787 and who had referred to him as \"one of the very great men of the age\" and \"the ablest man in France.\"\n\nDu Pont engaged in informal diplomacy between the United States and France during the reign of Napoleon. He was the originator of an idea that eventually became the Louisiana Purchase, as a way to avoid French troops landing in New Orleans, and possibly sparking armed conflict with U.S. forces. Eventually, he would settle in the U.S. permanently; he died there in 1817.\n\nHis son Éleuthère, who had studied chemistry in France with Antoine Lavoisier, founded a gunpowder manufacturing plant, based on his experience in France as a chemist. It would become one of the largest and most successful American corporations, known today as DuPont.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40125645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40125645", "title": "Rasjidi", "text": "Rasjidi\n\nProf. DR.H. Mohamad Rasjidi (May 20, 1915 in Kotagede, Yogyakarta, Indonesia – January 30, 2001) was a Minister of Religious Affairs of Indonesia at the First Sjahrir Cabinet and Second Sjahrir Cabinet.\nHe was a close friend of Alm. Faisal of Saudi Arabia Contribution Services - His services for the Republic of Indonesia is priceless of International Education classes.\nCairo scholar first of Indonesian Students to Value A. Simple, honest and trustworthy.\n\nHe was the first Chairman of the Indonesian diplomatic envoy who follow Egyptian diplomat who visited the capital city of Yogyakarta in 1947. When Blockade Dutch Military Aggression tightened, Indonesian diplomats entourage followed the aircraft penetrated the Egyptian diplomat who headed the state - Arab countries. Thus was born the agreement - an agreement with the Netherlands Roundtable which is recognized by the international community.\n"}
{"id": "42841351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42841351", "title": "Resan Hanım", "text": "Resan Hanım\n\nResan Hanım (28 March 1860 – 31 March 1910) was the fifth wife of Sultan Murad V of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nResan Hanım was born on 28 March 1860 in Artvin. Born as Ayşe, she was a member of Georgian noble family. Her father was Ömer Bey and her mother was Fatma Hanım. She had a sister named Rabia Gülten Hanım. She had a foster sister named Şayeste Hanım.\n\nShe had been brought to Istanbul as a young child, where her father entrusted her to the imperial harem together with her sister. She was then sent to Seniha Sultan's palace, where her name according to the custom of the Ottoman court was changed to Resan.\n\nResan and her foster sister were presented to Murad by the Senior Kalfa as a gift on the occasion of his accesaion to the throne. After his deposition, she followed him into confinement in the Çırağan Palace.\n\nResan married Murad on 2 November 1877 in the Çırağan Palace, a year after Murad and his family's imprisonment in the palace. After her marriage, her sister, Gülten Hanım became a lady-in-waiting to her. \n\nOn 5 June 1879, a year after the marriage, she gave birth to Fatma Sultan, followed by Aliye Sultan, born on 24 August 1880. Aliye died on 17 September 1903.\n\nAfter Murad's death in 1904, she remained in the Çırağan Palace. In 1909 she moved in with her daughter Fatma Sultan. Later a mansion was alocated to her, where she died of Tuberculosis on 31 March 1910. She was buried in the mausoleum of Damat Mehmed Ali Pasha in Eyüp Cemetery, Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7149151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7149151", "title": "Richard Lyon-Dalberg-Acton, 2nd Baron Acton", "text": "Richard Lyon-Dalberg-Acton, 2nd Baron Acton\n\nRichard Maximilian Lyon-Dalberg-Acton, 2nd Baron Acton, (7 August 1870 – 16 June 1924), was a British peer and diplomat, ultimately Britain's first Ambassador to Finland in 1919–20.\n\nDalberg-Acton was born in Bavaria, in the then German Empire, first and only surviving son of The 1st Baron Acton and his German wife, Marie Anna Ludomilla Euphrosina \"Gräfin\" von Arco auf Valley. He completed his education in England at Magdalen College, Oxford.\n\nDalberg-Acton entered the British Foreign Office in 1894. He began a career in Europe as Third Secretary in the Diplomatic Service at the British Embassy in Berlin in 1896. He was promoted Second Secretary in 1900 and served in the Berlin embassy until 1902, also the year he succeeded to his father's peerage.\n\nThe 2nd Lord Acton then served as Second Secretary at successive embassies, in Vienna from August 1902; then Berne, Switzerland; Madrid in 1906–07, and The Hague.\n\nIn 1911 he was promoted First Secretary, in which grade he was \"charge d'affaires\" at Darmstadt and Karlsruhe in Germany until the outbreak of the First World War in 1914. He served again in Switzerland as Counsellor of Embassy at Berne in 1915–16, and became Consul-General in Zürich in 1917. In 1919 he became the first British Ambassador in recently independent Finland at Helsinki, then retired from the Foreign Office in 1920.\n\nAlongside his diplomatic career, Lord Acton, a Liberal peer, was a Lord-in-waiting, from 1905 to 1915, to Kings Edward VII and George V under the Liberal administrations of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman and H. H. Asquith.\n\nThe fourth generation of his family to have been born abroad, he was, despite his paternal English roots and service to the British government, not formally a British subject until he was naturalised by Act of Parliament in 1911.\n\nIn 1919 he assumed by Royal Licence the additional surname of Lyon before his patronymics.\n\nHe married Dorothy Lyon, daughter of Thomas Henry Lyon, of Appleton Hall on 7 June 1904. The couple had nine children:\n\n\nActon was appointed to the Royal Victorian Order as a Member (fourth class) in 1901. He was promoted to be a Knight Commander of the same order in the 1916 New Year Honours.\n\nHe was also invested with the 1st class Order of the Crown (Prussia), as a Grand Officer of the French Legion of Honour, a Grand Cross of the Danish Order of the Dannebrog, and the Serbian Royal Red Cross.\n\n"}
{"id": "24069615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24069615", "title": "Senior (education)", "text": "Senior (education)\n\nIn United States education, a senior is a student in the fourth year of study (generally high school or college/university study).\n\nIn the United States, the twelfth grade is usually the fourth and final year of a student's high school period and is referred to as his/her senior year. In England and Wales, students in their tenth year and above in Secondary School are seniors; in Scotland, students in their fifth year and above are seniors. In the province of Ontario, high school students in their third year and above are considered to be seniors, while in the province of Alberta, only grade twelves are counted as seniors even though both provinces are Canadian (due to the fact that high school is only grades ten-twelve in Alberta). In the state of Queensland in Australia, senior refers to the final two years of high school.\n\nIn the United States, the fourth year that a student has been at a higher institution, is known as the senior year.\n\nIn college athletics, a student in their final year of eligibility is known as a senior.\n\nThe term super senior is used in the United States to refer to a fifth-year student who has not completed the graduation requirements by the end of the fourth year, and thus is required to stay an additional year to complete said requirements.\n\n"}
{"id": "15319146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15319146", "title": "Service summary of Douglas MacArthur", "text": "Service summary of Douglas MacArthur\n\nDouglas MacArthur, United States Army General began his career in 1899, served in three major military conflicts and held the highest military office of the United States and of the Philippines during that service.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1955, legislation was in the early stages of consideration by the United States Congress which would have authorized the President of the United States to promote Douglas MacArthur to the rank of General of the Armies. A similar measure had also been proposed unsuccessfully by Stuart Symington in 1945. However, because of several complications which would arise if such a promotion were to take place, the bill was withdrawn.\n\nDuring his military career, General MacArthur was awarded the following decorations from the United States and other allied nations. The list below is of those medals worn on a military uniform, and does not include commemorative medals, unofficial decorations, and non-portable awards.\n\nGeneral MacArthur belonged to several military and hereditary societies including the Society of the Cincinnati (honorary member of the New York Society), Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States (insignia number 15,317), Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War, Sons of the American Revolution (accepted by the Empire State Society on August 27, 1945, and assigned national membership number 65,843 and state membership number 7,723), Military Order of Foreign Wars, Military Order of the World Wars (of which he served as national commander in 1928) and the American Legion. In 1942 he received the American Legion's Distinguished Service Medal. On October 13, 1951, he was elected an honorary national president of the Society of American Legion Founders. \n\nHe was also eligible for membership in the Order of Lafayette, Sons of the Revolution, Society of Colonial Wars, Order of the Indian Wars of the United States, Military Order of the Carabao, United Spanish War Veterans and the Veterans of Foreign Wars, but his membership in these organizations has not been confirmed.\n\nOn January 17, 1936, MacArthur was made a Freemason at sight by Samuel Hawthorne, Grand Master of Masons in the Philippines in a two-hour ceremony. After being raised to the degree of Master Mason, MacArthur joined Manila Lodge No.1. On October 19, 1937, he was elected Knight Commander Court of Honor, and on December 8, 1947, he was coroneted to the honorary 33rd Degree at the American Embassy in Tokyo. He was also a life member of the Nile Shrine in Seattle, Washington.\n\n"}
{"id": "1223646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223646", "title": "The Stig", "text": "The Stig\n\nThe Stig is a character on the British motoring television show \"Top Gear\". The character is a play on the anonymity of racing drivers' full-face helmets, with the running joke that nobody knows who or what is inside the Stig's racing suit. The Stig's primary role is setting lap times for cars tested on the show. Previously, he would also instruct celebrity guests, off-camera, for the show's \"Star in a Reasonably Priced Car\" segment.\n\nThe identity of the original \"Black\" Stig, Perry McCarthy, was exposed by a Sunday newspaper in January 2003, and confirmed by McCarthy later that year. The black-suited Stig was subsequently \"killed off\" that October in the series 3 premiere, and replaced in the following episode by a new White Stig who lasted through to the end of series 15.\n\nIn series 13 episode 1, the show jokingly unmasked the Stig as seven-time world champion F1 driver Michael Schumacher. In the hiatus following series 15, racing driver Ben Collins was revealed to be the Stig in a court battle over Collins' impending autobiography, titled \"The Man in the White Suit\". In series 16, debuting in December 2010, Collins was replaced by a second White Stig, whose identity has so far remained secret.\n\nThe idea for the character was part of former host Jeremy Clarkson's and producer Andy Wilman's concept for the relaunched \"Top Gear\" show, bringing a new format to the original version of \"Top Gear\" which ceased production in 2001. The relaunched show introduced a live studio audience, the Stig, a racetrack, and madcap stunts. Clarkson is credited by the \"Sunday Times\" with having come up with the original idea for the Stig.\n\nClarkson and Wilman wanted to have a professional racing driver as part of the show's cast, but ran into difficulty finding a driver sufficiently adept at speaking on-camera. Clarkson then asked Wilman why the driver needed to speak at all, and they decided that the Stig's role would be silent.\n\nThe name Stig derives from Wilman and Clarkson's time at Repton School, where new boys had always been called \"Stig\". According to the original Stig, Perry McCarthy, speaking in 2006, the producers had wanted the anonymous driver to be called \"The Gimp\", referring to the use of gimp suits in BDSM sexual role-playing. After McCarthy objected, they settled upon the name Stig. McCarthy had said of the idea at the time that \"I don't want to be forever remembered as the Gimp\".\n\nWhen introducing the Stig in the \"Top Gear\" premiere, Clarkson said, \"We don't know its name, we really don't know its name, nobody knows its name, and we don't wanna know, 'cause it's a racing driver.\" According to the \"Daily Mail\" in 2010, his face is never revealed on set, and not even the celebrity guests being trained on the reasonably priced car are allowed to learn his identity. He stays suited and with his helmet on throughout the show, arriving early and leaving late, having his own dressing room and eating privately. The studio audience has no access to him at any time.\n\nAccording to a 2006 article in \"The Sunday Times\", most of the \"Top Gear\" crew did not know the Stig's identity; one camera assistant reportedly observed the Stig eating his lunch in the back of an ambulance to avoid being spotted. In 2009, another \"Times\" article reiterated that only a few production staff, the show's presenters and other BBC journalists knew the Stig's true identity.\n\nFormer Stig Perry McCarthy described in 2009 how, to maintain his anonymity, he would put on the Stig's helmet while going through the \"Top Gear\" security gates, and then change into his racing overalls in a special room behind the gatehouse before driving into the studio areas. He would speak as little as possible in the backstage areas, and put on an accent which some mistook as French. McCarthy also explained that hiding his identity while coaching the celebrities for \"Star in a Reasonably Priced Car\" proved difficult. He said that he did reveal his true identity while coaching Ross Kemp and David Soul, as he had previously known them and they promised that they would be silent about his role. For other drives, if celebrities asked if he was a particular person, he would just say \"How did you know?\", adding that more often than not, the suggestion was Michael Schumacher.\n\nThe Stig is never shown talking on screen, although he does talk with celebrities off-camera while training them to drive around the track. Clarkson has joked that he is \"not a very talkative chap\". When asked about his identity in a rare spoken interview for the show \"Veronica Vibes\" of a Dutch channel, the Stig reportedly said, \"I don't remember; my memory was erased when I got the job.\" The Stig's muteness has extended to appearances in other media, such as the \"Brain Stig\" video released by the BBC on YouTube in 2009.\n\nClarkson has written in his newspaper column that the Stig is not permitted to talk or comment on the cars he is given to drive because \"the opinions of all racing drivers are completely worthless,\" going on to explain that, because of their familiarity with cars equipped for track racing, racing drivers believe any and all road cars are on low-scale compared to racing cars.\n\nThe show has often compared the Stig's driving ability to others, particularly Formula One drivers. When Jeremy Clarkson said that the Stig believed that the Suzuki Liana, the show's Reasonably Priced Car at the time, could do a lap time of 1:44, former F1 driver Nigel Mansell, appearing as a guest on the programme, duly obliged by posting a time of 1:44.6; the Stig then posted a time of 1:44.4. After Rubens Barrichello became the first person to beat the Stig's time (coming in at 1:44.3), the show repeatedly referred to a jealous rivalry between the Stig and Barrichello. Sebastian Vettel then further beat this time by posting a time of 1:44 flat (Season 17: Ep 3). Clarkson has often mentioned that F1 drivers seem to take a different racing line on the test track than the Stig, such as on Jenson Button's drive; however, during Barrichello's and Lewis Hamilton's visits to the show, Clarkson observed that they took the same line around the track as The Stig. F1 driver Mark Webber's appearance on the show was marked at the conclusion of his lap with Clarkson presenting him with an \"I AM THE STIG\" T-shirt.\n\nThe Stig's introductions on the show have underlined his oddness. Initially the presenters heralded his appearance with simple humorous introductions, such as \"His Holiness, the Stig!\" Beginning in series 6, the introductions began to follow a format of, \"Some say that [two bizarre characteristics]. All we know is, he's called the Stig.\" Characteristics described in this format include:\n\n\nSome introductions have referred to current events, such as:\n\n\nIn the Stig's debut, he was described by Clarkson as having a very small brain, worthless opinions, and a disorder called \"Mansell Syndrome\". Richard Porter, Top Gear's script editor, described the Stig as \"single minded, stubborn and hilariously petulant; specifically, a mix of Kimi Räikkönen, the keyboard player from Pet Shop Boys, and a 15-year-old boy forced to go on holiday with his parents.\"\n\nHe has been depicted as a piece of cargo, being collected by Clarkson from the baggage conveyor at the airport; he has also been shown stored in a cupboard when not in use.\n\nIt has been said that the Stig \"has no understanding of money\" and during challenges he has been shown using an Oyster card to access London public transportation, and a credit card in the name of \"The Stig\" issued by the \"Bank of Money\" to obtain petrol.\n\nThe show has also featured the Stig's listening habits, as heard on the car stereo as he drives laps. Often a specific genre is chosen for one or more series. The Stig has been shown listening to:\n\n\nIn 2009, the Stig appeared at the National Television Awards, where he silently accepted an award and handed host Griff Rhys Jones a letter from the \"Top Gear\" hosts, which instructed Jones to give the Stig the award in his left hand, as his right one is magnetic, and cautioning organisers that he wasn't to be seated near the cast of \"Coronation Street\", as \"he's decided all northerners are edible\".\n\nIn the \"Top Gear\" end credits, the Stig is credited alongside Clarkson, Richard Hammond, and James May as a presenter. The Stig's primary role on the show is at the \"Top Gear\" test track at the show's base at Dunsfold Aerodrome, Surrey. His two main functions are to post lap times for featured performance cars in the \"Power Laps\" segment, and to train celebrity guests to set lap times in the \"Star in a Reasonably Priced Car\" segment.\n\nThe \"Top Gear\" website describes the Stig's test-driving role as follows:\n\nWhen first introduced, the Stig was described as the resident test driver, as the presenters could not consistently post fast times themselves. His stated mission was to \"just go out there and drive fast\". The original Stig, Perry McCarthy, described in 2006 how a racing driver was intended to be used as part of the presenting team in order to produce definitive fastest lap times for tested cars.\n\nRacing driver Perry McCarthy appeared in 22 \"Top Gear\" episodes as the black-suited, original Stig.\n\nMcCarthy was cast as the Stig following a chance meeting with Jeremy Clarkson at the 2002 launch party for McCarthy's autobiography, \"\". This led to an audition as a regular presenter, before the production team decided the racing driver would be anonymous. (Contradicting this, McCarthy said in 2008 that Clarkson had mentioned the idea of a \"top secret\" racing driver at their first meeting.)\n\nAfter the first series ended, an article in \"The Sunday Mirror\" on 12 January 2003 named McCarthy as the Stig. The newspaper quoted a show insider as saying, \"Just a handful of the crew know that he is actually Perry.\" McCarthy responded at the time, \"I do know who the Stig is but I cannot comment any further.\" After the second series ended, McCarthy published the second edition of his autobiography, in which he confirmed that he was the Stig. McCarthy was then \"killed off\" in the first episode of the third series.\n\nThe scene which saw Black Stig \"killed off,\" nicknamed \"Top Gun vs Top Gear,\" was an attempt to race to and then come to a halt on the long flight deck of HMS \"Invincible\", a Royal Navy aircraft carrier on which British Aerospace Sea Harrier jump jets reach before take-off. He would be using the \"old Top Gear Jag,\" a white Jaguar XJS bought for a \"couple of hundred quid,\" stripped of its fittings and fitted with nitrous injection to take it to . The Stig accelerated along the deck, and an on-screen speedometer indicated before a cutaway shot saw the car flying off the end of the runway ramp and into the sea. Clarkson then revealed in the last scene of the episode that a glove floating on the sea was all that divers had found. According to McCarthy, \"We tried to make it as much like a scene out of James Bond as possible.\"\n\nThe explanations for McCarthy's exit vary. While McCarthy described the parting as amiable in 2008, \"The Times\" claimed in 2009 that he had fallen out with producers. In 2010, McCarthy said he had become tired of the job, which he claimed paid £700 a week, and that part of his annoyance stemmed from an attempt by a car owner to sue him for ruining his car and the BBC's refusal to defend him due to his anonymity. He said the BBC chose not to renew his contract and had him written out of the show.\n\nAlthough McCarthy said in 2006 that, following his exit from \"Top Gear,\" he harboured ambitions of re-entering racing in the Grand Prix Masters series, he went on to run an investment company and appear as an after-dinner speaker.\n\nAccording to the \"Sunday Times,\" writing in 2009, McCarthy revealed in his book that there had always been more than one Stig, and that then 47-year-old Julian Bailey, a former Formula One driver, had acted as a stand-in for McCarthy. In a June 2009 interview with the \"Daily Mail\", Bailey, who was selling his home in Effingham, Surrey, said \"I was one of the Stigs ... which was pretty handy as filming was done just down the road. ... I have stopped now, but I am not supposed to talk about it.\"\n\nThe first White Stig was introduced in November 2003, following the Black Stig's exit in the prior episode. His identity remained secret until it was revealed as Ben Collins in August 2010. During this Stig's time on the show, the character's role expanded from Power Lap times and \"Reasonably Priced Car\" training to include appearances in other show segments, such as producing timed runs in the Isle of Man road test; driving a Caterham Seven from Caterham to Knockhill; riding a London Bus, the DLR and the Tube across London; jumping a snowmobile off a ski-jump in Lillehammer, Norway; and playing a police pursuit driver in the White Van Man challenge.\n\nSince the White Stig's debut, there was widespread speculation over his identity. Various sources claimed him to be a number of different racing drivers, including Collins, Damon Hill, Julian Bailey, Russ Swift, Darren Turner and Tim Schrick, as well as former \"Top Gear\" presenter Tiff Needell. Several people, including Hill and musician Jay Kay, claimed to be the Stig themselves. It was also speculated that the Stig was played by multiple drivers, a theory hinted at by original Stig Perry McCarthy. After observing the Stig's charity drive around the Silverstone Circuit just before the July 2008 British Grand Prix, former Formula One World Champion Fernando Alonso remarked, \"Whoever's in that car is a seriously good driver. ... I've no idea who he is, but he's definitely ex-F1.\"\n\nIn January 2009, rumours about the Stig's identity were stoked, in part by a \"News of the World\" article alleging to have discovered the Stig to be a married man in his 30s, living in a £300,000 home and driving a £15,000 car, on an income of around £150,000 from his \"Top Gear\" job and some stunt and test driving. In the same month, an art gallery owner reported that the Stig had revealed his identity to the gallery owner and his son, after contracting with them (under the guise of a BBC executive) for a series of signed and limited prints of the Stig. In the latter instance, the Stig was alleged to be Ben Collins. It was also reported that a builder doing work at Collins' home had found the Stig's trademark suit and gloves on display there. Another story, in \"The Daily Mail,\" named eight different drivers that it claimed had played the white Stig at some point. A BBC spokesman said, \"We never comment on speculation as to whom or what the Stig is.\"\n\nAs these rumours were ongoing, the \"Top Gear\" blog published three entries on 21 January revealing the Stig to be, respectively, Damon Hill's deceased father Graham Hill; Royal Bank of Scotland chairman Sir Tom McKillop; and newly inaugurated U.S. president Barack Obama. Two days later, Clarkson joked in his newspaper column in \"The Sun\" that the Stig was BBC royal reporter Nicholas Witchell: \"And now you know, I'm afraid he will have to be dropped from a Hercules transport plane and killed. Worse, because the secret is out, the \"Telegraph\" will have to find another big secret to expose. Might I suggest they look into \"Doctor Who\"s TARDIS because I'm willing to bet it really isn't as big inside as the BBC claim.\"\n\nWhen Richard Hammond crashed a jet-powered car, the accident report into the crash described Ben Collins as someone \"who worked closely with Top Gear as a high performance driver and consultant.\"\n\nOn 20 June 2009, Clarkson announced in his newspaper column that the Stig would show his face in \"Top Gear\"'s series thirteen premiere, airing the next day. According to Clarkson, the Stig was \"fed up with newspapers speculating that he's a photocopier salesman from Bolton, or lives in a pebble-dashed house in Bristol.\"\n\nThe episode showed the Stig driving a black Ferrari FXX around the test track for a record-setting time of 1:10.7, before walking into the studio and sitting down. As the audience shouted \"Off! Off!\" the Stig removed his helmet to reveal himself as seven-time world champion F1 driver Michael Schumacher. In the subsequent interview, Schumacher exhibited some of the Stig's supposedly defining character traits, such as knowing only two facts about ducks (both \"facts\" being wrong).\n\nFollowing the revelation, the Stig alleged to be Schumacher was shown driving the Suzuki Liana but did not set a lap time; instead, video clips showed the Stig exhibiting very poor car control, striking a camera tripod, and eventually getting lost. Clarkson closed the segment by observing that possibly, Schumacher was not truly the Stig after all. While the BBC initially would not confirm whether Schumacher's revelation was a stunt, \"The Telegraph\" reported the next day that a \"Top Gear\" spokesman confirmed Schumacher had played the Stig, due to Ferrari only allowing Schumacher to drive the FXX, but that \"the identity of the driver at other times would remain 'a mystery'.\"\n\nOn 19 August 2010, it was reported that a legal dispute was developing between the BBC and publishers representing the Stig, over plans by the Stig to release an autobiography revealing his identity. A BBC spokesman said, \"The BBC is in a legal dispute over the publication of a book relating to \"Top Gear\" as this breaches agreed contractual and confidentiality obligations relating to the show.\" The Stig was reportedly unhappy that he had been unable to profit from his \"Top Gear\" role to the same degree as the other presenters.\n\nAround the same time, the \"Sunday Times\" claimed that financial documents for Ben Collins' company, Collins Autosport, provided evidence that he was the Stig. The \"Times\" stated that beginning a month after the White Stig's first appearance, the company had experienced an increase in profits ascribed to \"driving services provided for the BBC, mainly in the \"Top Gear\" programme.\" Collins did not comment on this story; the BBC said it was \"no surprise\" as Collins had appeared several times on the show as well as provided other services.\n\nOn 23 August 2010, the BBC and the Stig's publisher, HarperCollins, appeared in court. HarperCollins confirmed that it was being sued by the BBC over the autobiography's publication, stating, \"We are disappointed that the BBC has chosen to spend licence fee payers' money to suppress this book and will vigorously defend the perfectly legitimate right of this individual to tell his story.\" The BBC said, \"This situation has come about as a result of an attempt by an external party to profit from unauthorised use of the \"Top Gear\" brand, one of the BBC's biggest and most watched shows in the UK and around the world. As a result, it is important that the BBC does all it can to uphold confidentiality clauses that have been agreed to in relation to the show.\"\n\nIn a 27 August 2010 entry on the \"Top Gear\" blog, executive producer Andy Wilman attacked HarperCollins for attempting to reveal the Stig's identity: \"The whole point of the Stig is the mystique – the bizarre characteristics he has, the wonderment created about what he might think, feel, do or look like. ... HarperCollins have decided none of that is as important as their profits.\" He also clarified that half of the BBC's legal costs were being funded by BBC Worldwide, their commercial arm.\n\nOn 29 August, the \"Daily Mirror\" claimed that photos of Collins at his England home on the same day that the Stig had appeared at a \"Top Gear\" event in Germany proved that Collins had already been fired from the Stig role. When asked about the ongoing High Court action, Collins stated, \"I am not allowed to talk about it.\"\n\nThe legal hearings continued in private on 31 August. On 1 September 2010, the case was decided against the BBC, as the High Court refused to grant an injunction blocking the publication of the autobiography now acknowledged to be authored by Collins. Collins was in court for part of that day's hearing, but neither he nor the BBC confirmed afterward that he was the Stig; a BBC spokesman said, \"The BBC brought this action as we believe it is vital to protect the character of The Stig, which ultimately belongs to the licence-fee payer. Today's judgment does not prevent the BBC from pursuing this matter to trial and it will not be deterred from protecting such information from attack no matter when or by whom it should arise.\" On 3 September 2010, the BBC News website published a profile of Collins that began: \"Former Formula Three driver Ben Collins has won a legal fight to publish an autobiography in which he claims to be The Stig.\"\n\nCollins' book, \"The Man in the White Suit,\" was published 16 September 2010.\n\nImmediately following the High Court's decision, \"Top Gear\" presenter James May commented, \"Obviously I'm now going to have to take some legal action of my own, because I have been the Stig for the past seven years, and I don't know who this bloke is, who's mincing around in the High Court pretending it's him.\" He expounded on the pretence in a newspaper column the next day, describing his dual life as the Stig and \"Captain Slow\".\n\nSpeculation about the future of the Stig character began immediately. On 3 September 2010, May told a radio show that the Stig would be \"dealt with\" in a similar manner to how the Black Stig was eliminated. On the same day, \"The Telegraph\" reported that the BBC would not be renewing Collins' contract and that Collins would be soliciting offers to star in his own programme. (A month later, he joined the show \"Fifth Gear\" for its eighteenth season; he then became a co-presenter on the Polish programme \"Automaniak\".) On 4 September, \"The Sun\" quoted a BBC spokeswoman as saying \"No decision has yet been made as to whether The Stig will be killed off.\" Clarkson advertised for a new driver in his 4 September newspaper column, noting the successful applicant must know that \"no one, under any circumstances, should ever rat on their friends\". In a 7 September interview, Clarkson said that Collins was \"history as far as we are concerned. He's sacked.\"\n\nBookmakers' favourites to become the new Stig included Anthony Davidson, Damon Hill, Russ Swift, Heikki Kovalainen, and an unspecified female driver. One company \"The Sun\" reported that racing driver Phil Keen, a former stand-in for the Stig, was likely to fill the role.\n\nOn 1 October 2010, it was announced that Collins would join Five's \"Fifth Gear\" motoring show, where he was introduced by Vicki Butler-Henderson as someone whose name \"rhymes with The Twig.\" Collins appeared unmasked, saying \"Yes, I can speak. It's a massive pleasure to do so.\"\n\nOn 5 November 2010, the \"Top Gear\" website released a video clip about its \"Stig Farm,\" the end of which introduced a new Stig for the travelling stage show \"Top Gear Live.\" The video also featured a Stig attempting to write a book on a computer, and correcting one of its many mistakes with Tippex.\n\nIn the \"USA Road Trip\" special (debuting 21 December 2010), the presenters branded the Stig a traitor; May declared his true name to be Judas Iscariot. In a challenge mimicking a drive-by shooting, the targets used were cardboard representations of the Stig (with Hammond taking special care to shoot the Stig in the back).\n\nDuring Collins' appearance with a military amputees rally team, broadcast in July 2011, he was introduced by Hammond as \"ex-Stig Ben Collins.\" Collins returned to \"Top Gear\" in the series 18 special \"50 Years of Bond Cars,\" where Hammond interviewed him on his work as a stunt driver in the film \"Skyfall.\" Hammond again introduced him as an ex-Stig and referred several times during the interview to Collins' departure. Collins wore a T-shirt during the interview which read \"I am the Stig.\"\n\nOn 26 December 2010, five days after the \"USA Road Trip\" special, \"Top Gear\" aired a \"\" in which the presenters re-enacted the journey of the Three Wise Men to Bethlehem. At the episode's conclusion, they discovered a manger cradling not Jesus, but a baby Stig.\n\nIn the series 16 premiere a month later, the presenters explained that Stigs grow very quickly, and the new Stig was thus already fully grown. Aside from a slightly different helmet and overalls, the current Stig resembles the previous Stig. In his first episode, he set a speed record around the track (1:15.1) in an Ariel Atom V8 – Clarkson commenting that this Stig posted times \"broadly comparable to those of Sacked Stig\".\n\nVarious episodes have featured \"cousins\" of the Stig, often when the show is filming outside the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Australian, French, Korean, Russian, Chinese and U.S. adaptions of \"Top Gear\" also feature their own versions of The Stig. The \"Top Gear Australia\" Stig was wheeled on screen, upside down in a delivery crate for the UK-Australian \"Top Gear Ashes\" episode. Additionally, when \"Top Gear Australia\" visited New Zealand (in series 3 episode 2), they introduced their Stig's Kiwi cousin, \"The Stug\" (referencing New Zealand English's centralised short-\"i\" sound). When \"Top Gear U.S.\" drove a modified off-road racer through Colorado against a kayak, they introduced \"Backwoods Stig,\" who wears a white racing overall with torn off sleeves. The Stig is rarely used in the US version as presenter Tanner Foust is himself a professional racing driver.\n\nIn the DVD \"Top Gear: The Worst Car in the History of the World,\" the Stig's Yorkshire cousin, nicknamed \"T'Stig\" (a reference to the Yorkshire accent), was featured. Alongside his trademark racing outfit, he had a flat cap on his helmet and two whippets by his feet. He was involved in driving a BMW around a Gymkhana course to show how it is done for when James and Jeremy attempt to do so with two of the worst American cars. He was also prompted to drive a Peugeot 308 - one of the cars that was the candidate for the title, but he fled.\n\nIn the Winter Olympics special \"Top Gear\" used Dan Lang, a Swedish snowmobile champion, to jump a snowmobile.\n\nIn the \"USA Road Trip\" (aired 21 December 2010), Tiff Needell was brought in as an \"Emergency Stig\" to train Danny Boyle on the track.\n\nIn June 2008, the Stig drove a passenger in a two-seat Formula One car at speeds up to for three laps around the Silverstone Circuit in wet conditions, hours before the start of the 2008 British Grand Prix. The drive was the prize in a charity auction held in aid of Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital where the winning bidder paid £35,000 for the privilege. The Stig appeared at the 2008 October National Television Awards to accept \"Top Gear's\" third award for best factual programme, as the other presenters were ostensibly busy filming the new series. The Stig also appears at \"Top Gear Live\" events, such as the August 2010 Stunt Show at the Nürburgring in Germany, in which he is billed as the star of the show alongside the other stunt drivers and cars, with the other \"Top Gear\" presenters not playing a part. The Stig has appeared outside \"Top Gear\" in Clarkson's motoring DVDs since 2005. He also appeared before the BBC's 2011 British Grand Prix coverage when Clarkson and Hammond gave the camera crew a tour of the \"Top Gear\" studio.\n\nIn the 2011 X Games 17, the Stig can be seen walking in the background during one of Brian Deegan's interviews during Rallycross. Tanner Foust, one of the presenters of \"Top Gear US\", was competing in the event.\n\nGoogle Street view of the Dunsfold track shows the Google Camera car being paced by The Stig driving a Mercedes SLS coupe.\n\nIn 2016, he was a part of The Getaway Car presented by Dermot O'Leary along with his 2 'nephews' simply called 'Red Stig' and 'Blue Stig'.\n\nOn March 30, 2017, the Stig appeared on Colin Furze's YouTube \"World's Fastest Bumper Car\" video, which featured a modified 1960s bumper car and a 600cc 100bhp engine.\n\n\"The Scotsman\" described the Stig in 2008 as a \"real-life James Bond able to tame the most powerful cars, while possessing all the mystique of Zorro.\" \"The Sunday Times\" in 2009 described the Stig as \"not a man but an idea, possibly an extraterrestrial,\" speculating that, along the lines of the Spartacus mythology, the more people that were linked with the character, the stronger the mystery would become. It paid tribute to how long the show had actually kept the secret.\n\nThe question of \"Who is the Stig?\" has been described as one of the most-asked queries on the Internet. The \"Sunday Times\" reported that online and text-answering services rated it as one of the most popular questions of all time, along with the meaning of life.\n\nThe Stig has been notionally \"spotted\" in the wild in images collected for Google Street View. He was photographed by a Street View car standing on the side of the A82 road in Loch Ness, Scotland. He was also captured by a Street View tricycle in three locations within Legoland Windsor in Berkshire, including riding a go-kart and sitting on a camel. A Street View image taken from the A40 Westway of the Stig apparently standing in a window of the \"Top Gear\" office was reportedly just a cardboard cut-out.\n\nThe BBC has capitalised on the mystery behind the Stig by marketing \"I AM THE STIG\" T-shirts and variants through the \"Top Gear\" shop. Other Stig merchandise has included bubble wash, pens, keyrings, soap on a rope, lunchbags and a \"sonic toothbrush.\"\n\nThrough a partnership with Polyphony Digital, the Stig's helmet and overalls are available for virtual purchase in the videogames \"Gran Turismo 5\" and \"Gran Turismo 6\". The Stig has also appeared several times in the \"Forza Motorsport\" series, including as avatar items in \"Forza Motorsport 4\", one-on-one racing challenges against \"The Stig's Digital Cousin\" in \"Forza Motorsport 5\" and \"Forza Motorsport 6\", and as a driver outfit in an add-on for \"Forza Motorsport 7\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1419505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1419505", "title": "Íñigo Arista of Pamplona", "text": "Íñigo Arista of Pamplona\n\nÍñigo Arista (, , \"Wannaqo\", c. 790 – 851 or 852) was a Basque leader, considered the first King of Pamplona. He is thought to have risen to prominence after the defeat of local Frankish partisans in 816, and his rule is usually dated from shortly after the defeat of a Carolingian army in 824. \n\nHe is first attested by chroniclers as a rebel against the Emirate of Córdoba from 840 until his death a decade later. Remembered as the nation's founder, he would be referred to as early as the 10th century by the nickname \"Arista\", coming either from Basque \"Aritza\" (\"Haritza\"/\"Aiza\", literally 'the oak', meaning 'the resilient') or Latin \"Aresta\" ('the considerable').\n\nThe origin of Íñigo Arista is obscure. There is even disagreement regarding the name of his father. A charter preserved at Leyre describes him as \"Enneco ... filius Simeonis\" (Íñigo son of Jimeno) and another Leyre document reports the obituary of \"Enneco Garceanes, que fuit vulgariter vocas Areista\" (Íñigo Garcés [son of García], who is commonly called Arista). Many later historians have followed one or the other of these, but the reliability of both are questioned due to the possibility of later corruption or forgery.\n\nEleventh century chroniclers Ibn Hayyan, who calls him and his brother both \"ibn Wannaqo\" (, Íñiguez), and Al-Udri (\"ibn Yannaqo\") indicate that his father was likewise named Íñigo. He is said by Rodrigo Jiménez de Rada (c. 1170–1247) to have been count of Bigorre, or at least to have come from there, but there is no near-contemporary evidence of this.\n\nIt has been speculated that he was kin to García Jiménez, who in the late 8th century succeeded his father Jimeno 'the Strong' in resisting Carolingian expansion into Vasconia. A second dynasty of Pamplona monarchs that would supplant his, the Jimena, are usually made to be related to him.\n\nThe name of Íñigo's mother is unknown (she is sometimes called Onneca, without foundation) but it is known that she also married local \"muwallad\" lord Musa ibn Fortun ibn Qasi, by him having a son Musa ibn Musa ibn Qasi. This younger Musa would become head of the Banu Qasi, ruler of Tudela and one of the chief lords of Ebro Valley. Due to this relationship, Íñigo and his kin frequently acted in alliance with Musa ibn Musa, a relationship that allowed Íñigo to extend his influence over large territories in the Pyrenean valleys, and was also instrumental in the rebellions that would lead to Pamplona breaking with the Emirate.\n\nThe family came to power through struggles over Frankish and Córdoban influence in northern Iberia. In 799, pro-Frankish assassins murdered Mutarrif ibn Musa, governor of Pamplona, perhaps the brother of Musa ibn Musa ibn Qasi and even of Íñigo himself. Ibn Hayyan reports that in 816, Abd al-Karim ibn Abd al-Wahid ibn Mugit launched a military campaign against the pro-Frankish \"Enemy of God\", Velasco the Gascon (, \"Balašk al-Ŷalašqī\"), \"Sahib\" of Pamplona (), who had united Christian and pagan factions. They fought a three-day battle in which the pro-Córdoba faction routed their enemies and killed Velasco, along with García López, kinsman of Alfonso II of Asturias, Sancho \"warrior/knight of Pamplona\", and pagan warrior \"Ṣaltān\". This defeat of the pro-Frankish force appears to have allowed the anti-Frankish Íñigo to come to power.\n\nIn 820, Íñigo is said to have intervened in the County of Aragon, ejecting a Frankish vassal, count Aznar I Galíndez, in favor of García \"el Malo\" (\"the Mean\"), who would become Íñigo's son-in-law. In 824, a Carolingian force led by counts Aeblus and Aznar Sánchez made an expedition against Pamplona, but were defeated in the second Battle of Roncesvalles.\n\nTraditionally, this battle is portrayed as resulting in the crowning of Íñigo as \"King of Pamplona\", but there is no direct evidence of his involvement in the battle or his crowning thereafter, and he is referred to by Arabic chroniclers with the same title as given Velasco, \"Lord of Pamplona\". His realm would continually play Muslim and Christian against themselves and each other to maintain independence against the outside powers.\n\nIn 840 Íñigo's lands were attacked by Abd Allah ibn Kulayb, \"wali\" of Zaragoza, leading his half-brother, Musa ibn Musa, into rebellion. Íñigo's son García acted as regent, in concert with Íñigo's warrior brother Fortún Íñiguez (, \"Fortūn ibn Wannaqo\"), who was also half-brother of Musa, and they joined Musa in an uprising against the Emirate of Córdoba. Abd-ar-Rahman II, emir of Córdoba, launched reprisal campaigns in the succeeding years.\n\nIn an 843 battle, Fortún Íñiguez was killed, and Musa unhorsed and forced to escape on foot, while Íñigo and his son Galindo escaped with wounds and several noblemen, most notably Velasco Garcés, defected to Abd-ar-Rahman. The subsequent year, Íñigo's own son, Galindo Íñiguez, and Musa's son Lubb ibn Musa went over to Córdoba, and Musa was forced to submit. Following a brief campaign in 845, a general peace was achieved. In 850, Mūsā again rose in open rebellion, supported by Pamplona, and envoys of \"Induo\" (thought to be Íñigo) and \"Mitio\", \"Dukes of the Navarrese\", were received at the French court.\n\nÍñigo died in the Muslim year 237 A.H., which is late 851 or early 852, and was succeeded by his son García Íñiguez who was already governing the kingdom during his father's long illness prior to his death.\n\nDuring the lifetime of Íñigo, the existence of several monasteries is attested across Navarre, when the Cordovan priest Eulogius had to stay in the area (848). In a letter written to Wiliesind, not only does Eulogius reveal that the Basque leader was a \"christicola princeps\" but he provides the names of three monasteries not far from Pamplona: Siresa, St. Zacharias and Leyre.\n\nThe iconic monastery of Leyre, founded in the 9th century and claimed later to be founded by the king of Pamplona, was fostered by granting lands and estates to it. A document in the archives of the monastery shows that in 842, Íñigo bestowed the town and lands of Yesa on Leyre (\"Ego rex Eneco concedo...\"), although the authenticity of the document recording this grant is disputed. Íñigo himself is reported to have been buried in the monastery after his death in 851/852.\n\nThe name of the wife (or wives) of Íñigo is not reported in contemporary records, although sources from centuries later assign her the name of Toda or Onneca. There is also scholarly debate regarding her derivation, some hypothesizing that she was daughter of Velasco, lord of Pamplona (killed 816), and others making her kinswoman of Aznar I Galíndez. He was father of the following known children:\n\nThe dynasty founded by Íñigo reigned for about 80 years, being supplanted by a rival dynasty in 905. However, due to intermarriages, subsequent kings of Navarre descended from Íñigo, and some accounts even wrongly showed them to descend from Íñigo in the direct male line. He is remembered as the founder of the nation of Navarre.\n\n"}
