{"id": "8926016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8926016", "title": "2009 Arab Nations Cup", "text": "2009 Arab Nations Cup\n\nThe Arab Nations Cup 2009 was the ninth staging of the Arab Nations Cup, an association football tournament held between Arab countries by UAFA. The first stage of qualifying began in December 2006, but no further rounds were played and the tournament was cancelled.\n\n\n\"Cancelled.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54876824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54876824", "title": "Aarhus Symposium", "text": "Aarhus Symposium\n\nAarhus Symposium is an annual leadership conference taking place at the University of Aarhus, Denmark, on the first Friday in November. The aim of the event is to connect leaders of today with leaders of tomorrow. To do so, a wide range of key decision-makers are invited to share their experiences and engage in discussions with students from various universities. Hereby, the symposium allows students to relate their academic insights to the broader business society.\n\nAarhus Symposium was founded in 2011 and has since expanded its concept to also involve Aarhus Symposium Focus and Aarhus Symposium Challenge.\n\nAarhus Symposium is a non-profit organisation, and all symposia are organised by voluntary students together with a pro-bono board of directors.\n\nFour students at Aarhus University established Aarhus Symposium in 2011: David Scherer, Jens Riis Andersen, Kasper Vinther Olesen, and Andreas Emmertsen. They gathered support from other students to organise the very first Aarhus Symposium with the objective of building a bridge between students, i.e. the future leaders, and leaders in today’s businesses and society.\n\nThe first annual Aarhus Symposium welcomed renowned speakers from the business society such as Carsten Bjerg (then CEO of Grundfos), Lars Rohde (then CEO of ATP), and Maria Rønn (CEO of Danmarks Radio). Throughout the years, the programme has extended to include prominent speakers such as His Royal Highness The Crown Prince of Denmark, Lars Rebien Sørensen (president and CEO of Novo Nordisk), and the Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen.\n\nAarhus Symposium has grown through the years as a result of wide support from students, speakers, partners, and others. In 2012, the Organising Committee introduced Battle of the Economists; an event to take place on Monday in the week of Aarhus Symposium. It provided a national focus to the overall theme of Aarhus Symposium. The event was renamed Aarhus Symposium Focus in 2016 to broaden the possibilities for topics that exceed economic issues.\n\nIn 2013, Aarhus Symposium Challenge was established to strengthen the connection between students and the leaders of today. Aarhus Symposium Challenge is an essay competition in which selected speakers put forth a challenge for students to solve. Through their essay, students obtain a seat at both Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus, and they potentially qualify for Leaders’ Forum. Since its initiation in 2013, an increasing number of students have participated in Aarhus Symposium Challenge, making it the primary sign-up for Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus.\n\nAarhus Symposium takes place on the first Friday in November. Here, business executives and key decision-makers are invited to share their experiences and insights regarding a specific theme. They do so with different perspectives that reflect the tracks, i.e. subtopics, of the event.\n\n\"Formerly known as Battle of the Economists\"\n\nAarhus Symposium Focus is an annual conference which takes place on Monday in the week of Aarhus Symposium. Here, experts with various backgrounds are invited to share their thoughts on a topic related to the overall theme of Aarhus Symposium. The event provides a national focus as the topic strives to reflect one of Denmark’s most critical challenges.\n\nAarhus Symposium Challenge is an essay competition where selected speakers put forth a challenge for students to solve. By submitting a qualified essay, students obtain a seat at both Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus. Additionally, the participating students compete for the Aarhus Symposium Award and a spot in Leaders’ Forum.\n\nLeaders’ Forum is an exclusive and intimate session where selected students discuss their essay contribution with the leader that put forth the respective challenge. Only the best essay contributions under each challenge topic qualifies for this informal session.\n\nThroughout the years, Leaders’ Forum has attracted much attention from the media inasmuch as it is unique in a Danish context and provides both the attending students and the top leaders the opportunity to learn from each other.\n\nThe most extraordinary essay contribution in Aarhus Symposium Challenge will be rewarded the Aarhus Symposium Award on stage at the very end of Aarhus Symposium. Prior winners of the Aarhus Symposium Award are:\nBesides facilitating Aarhus Symposium and Aarhus Symposium Focus, Aarhus Symposium also hosts a variety of other events that takes places at Aarhus University. Most notable are Aarhus Symposium Theme Announcement and Aarhus Symposium Challenge Launch; both of which are closely linked to the three key elements of Aarhus Symposium.\n\nThe Organising Committee of Aarhus Symposium consists of approximately 35 voluntary students, who have the responsibility for planning, funding, promoting, and executing all events. The Organising Committee is divided into smaller groups with specific focus areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "30691249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30691249", "title": "Abyei status referendum", "text": "Abyei status referendum\n\nThe Abyei status referendum is a delayed referendum that was originally due to be held in 2011 in which the residents of Abyei can decide either to remain part of the Sudanese South Kordofan region or to become part of the Bahr el Ghazal region of South Sudan.\n\nThe referendum was originally planned to be held simultaneously to the 2011 Southern Sudanese independence referendum on January 9–15, 2011, but was postponed indefinitely due to disagreements over the process. Due to the uncertainty, violence erupted in which more than 30 people were killed. As a response the UN deployed extra troops to its UNMIS contingent The impasse on the referendum is due to lack of agreement on who constitutes a \"resident of Abyei\". The question is whether to include the Messiria tribe, who have historically stayed in the region every year for six months.\n\nOn 24 October 2012, the African Union proposal was to hold a referendum in October 2013, in accordance with the endorsement from the African Union Peace and Security Council following a mediation team led by former South African President Thabo Mbeki that included the exclusion of the Messiria, until Sudan rejected the offer saying it was sovereign over the region and that such a demarche would threaten the entire conflict resolution process. It also offered a six-week delay, until 9 December, to agree to the terms of a referendum between Sudan and South Sudan. Sudanese Foreign Minister Ali Karti said that he had confidence that the AU would accord both states more time to resolve difference over organising the referendum. He told the Sudanese parliament, in particular MPs from South Kordofan, that the AU proposal \"will not ever see the light of day\" and it will not be referred to the United Nations Security Council as the United States of America wants.\"\n\nBetween 27 and 29 October 2013 an informal, non-binding vote was held, although unrecognised by either Sudan or South Sudan. Only the Ngok Dinka tribe participated, with the Arab Misseriya tribe boycotting, claiming it would not recognise the result. The vote followed UN and AU warnings that such a move could inflame tensions. As counting took place, the Misseriya vowed to carry out its own such referendum. The spokesman for the Abyei Referendum High Committee, Luka Biong, announced that of those who voted, 99.9% supported joining South Sudan; this was then followed by celebrations.\n\nThe head of the African Union, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, said the vote was illegal and its organisers risked sparking a return to war. \"They pose a threat to peace in the Abyei area, and have the potential to trigger an unprecedented escalation on the ground... with far-reaching consequences for the region as a whole.\" An independent observer, Tim Flatman, said that 63,433 of 64,775 registered voters took part in the referendum and that only 12 voted to be part of Sudan, while there were 362 spoiled ballots. Flatman also suggested initial observations suggested a \"very transparent process.\"\n"}
{"id": "27533726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27533726", "title": "Adoption fraud", "text": "Adoption fraud\n\nAdoption fraud also known as illegal adoption can be defined as when a person or institute attempts to either illegally adopt a child or illegally give up a child for adoption. Common ways in which this can be done include dishonesty and bribes.\n\nIt can be quite difficult to obtain accurate statistics concerning adoption fraud. However, below is a sample \"603 adoptions were recorded by Greece's courts in 2005, an increase of 20 percent over the previous year, according to government statistics. But fewer than 60 of these adoptions were carried out through state channels\", meaning that in some regions of the world up to 90% of adoptions share the potential of being illegal.\n\nGenetics and other forms of identification may help in convicting and catching those who do adoption fraud. This field also has the potential to block potential criminals from committing this crime beforehand.\n\nIn addition to being an offense that carries a felony in many nations (including the United States) adoption fraud is also illegal on an international scale. Perpetrators of this felony may face imprisonment and fines if they are convicted.\n\n\nThe \"Dr. Phil Show\" had an episode revolving around an adoption scam between a couple and single mother. The couple placed an ad on Craigslist to which the scammer immediately replied. The couple was sent fake ultrasounds and fake medical reports, and received money. With the use of technology, the scammer was able to keep the lie about giving the child to them for more than nine months. The episode informed people about signs to look out for when adopting a child, especially when it is not through an adoption agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "29707444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29707444", "title": "Al-Dahhak ibn Qays al-Shaybani", "text": "Al-Dahhak ibn Qays al-Shaybani\n\nAḍ-Ḍaḥāk ibn Qays al-Shaybānī () was the leader of a widespread but unsuccessful Kharijite rebellion in Iraq against the Umayyad Caliph Marwan II from 745 until his death in battle in 746.\n\nThe deposition of al-Walid II in spring 744 began a turbulent period in the Umayyad Caliphate; his successor Yazid III died within a few months, and the ambitious governor of Armenia and Azerbaijan Marwan ibn Muhammad, rebelled against Yazid's designated successor, Ibrahim ibn al-Walid. Marwan succeeded in gaining control of Damascus and Syria, but elsewhere his authority ranged from theoretical to non-existent.\n\nIn Iraq, this turmoil spilled over in the form of a struggle between Yazid III's governor Abdallah ibn Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz and Marwan's appointee, al-Nadr ibn Sa'id al-Harashi. This conflict allowed the Kharijites, a Muslim sect which had originated in Mesopotamia, to rise up. This revolt was initially led by Sa'id ibn Bahdal, but he died soon of the plague, and was succeeded by Dahhak. Dahhak quickly assembled a sizeable army, and managed to defeat the two rival governors, who had joined forces, in April/May 745. In the aftermath of their defeat, al-Harashi returned to Marwan and Abdallah ibn Umar retreated to the fortress of Wasit, where he was soon besieged. In August however Ibn Umar gave himself up, and, in an unprecedented act for a member of the Umayyad dynasty and of the Prophet's own Quraysh tribe, did homage to Dahhak, who was neither and who had by now been declared caliph by his followers. Kufa was now occupied by Dahhak's forces and became his seat, while Ibn Umar was named governor of Wasit, eastern Iraq and western Persia. Dahhak's generosity in rewarding his followers, as well as the attractiveness of Kharijite doctrine quickly swelled his ranks further, until his army is said to have reached 120,000 men. Among others, the famed general Sulayman, a son of Caliph Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik and opponent of Marwan, sought refuge with him.\n\nWhile Marwan was preoccupied with besieging Sulayman's brother Sa'id and his supporters in Homs, Dahhak marched into northern Mesopotamia. After he took Mosul, Marwan ordered his own son Abdallah, who resided at Harran, to confront the Kharijites' advance. Abdallah however was defeated and retreated to Nisibis, where he was besieged. After Homs fell however, Marwan with his army moved swiftly east. The two armies met at al-Ghazz in Kafartuta in August/September 746, and Dahhak's forces were decisively defeated, with Dahhak himself falling early in the battle. His successor, al-Khaybari, tried to renew the attack but was also killed. The Kharijite rebellion persisted, under Abu Dulaf, for another year, but by the end of 747, Mesopotamia, Iraq and Persia had been secured by Marwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "52644421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52644421", "title": "Ali Pascha von Janina", "text": "Ali Pascha von Janina\n\nAli Pascha von Janina oder Die Franzosen in Albanien (\"Ali Pasha of Ioannina or The French in Albania\") is a one-act German singspiel. It is set around 1820 in Ioannina, then part of the Ottoman Empire and is named after its central character Ali Pasha of Ioannina.\n\nIts music and libretto are both by the German composer Albert Lortzing – it can be considered as a precursor to his later full-length operas. He had decided to write for the stage in 1823, aged 22. Orientalist subjects were then popular and so he chose that theme for his first work. On 30 January 1824 he married Rosina Regina Ahles and soon afterwards he completed the music, but it took him until 1828 to find a theatre which would mount the work.\n\nThe couple took on an engagement at the Hoftheater Detmold in autumn 1826, as well as appearing in theatres in Münster and Osnabrück. Lortzing finally premiered the work in the Städtische Bühnen Münster in on 1 February 1828, where it was a moderate success and enabled him to continue writing plays.\n\n\nStationed in Ioannina with his battalion, the French naval captain Bernier has fallen in love with Arianna, a beautiful girl from the nearby island of Corfu. However, he has not heard from her for days and is worried about what might have happened to her. Bernier's friend Robert tries in vain to comfort him.\n\nBernier's concerns prove justified – Arianna had been captured by a wild horde whilst out walking on the beach and taken to Ali Pasha's harem. Ali Pasha cannot bear her laments and complaints and orders her to forget Bernier since she now belongs to him alone. The other women in the harem are unwilling to raise Arianna's hopes and instead advise her that the only way to survive her suffering is to submit herself to fate and Ali Pasha's will.\n\nIn the meantime Bernier receives news of his beloved and gains entry to Ali Pasha's palace under a pretext. Ali Pasha is initially delighted to welcome a Frenchman and brings in Arianna to show her off to him, make Bernier envious and draw on Bernier's knowledge of women.\n\nBernier and Arianna find it hard to conceal their true feelings and pretend that they do not know each other, but only a few minutes after Ali Pasha leaves she admits to her love. Ali Pasha overhears this from a hiding place and rushes back in swearing vengeance. Bernier is chained up but Robert and the French battalion succeed in penetrating the harem. They free Bernier and Arianna and return with them to France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2856934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2856934", "title": "Buddha (manga)", "text": "Buddha (manga)\n\n\"Buddha\" received the 2004 and 2005 Eisner Award. As of early 2006, each volume had sold an average of 8,500 copies, with the first volume, \"Kapilavastu\", having sold 20,000 copies. Due to differences between the ways in which Japanese and English are read, the American volumes published by Vertical Inc. are presented as mirror images of Tezuka's original work so they can be read from left to right, rather than from right to left. Nearly three decades after the manga was completed, an anime film adaptation was released in 2011. A second film was released in 2014.\n\nIn ancient India, the lives of many people are plagued by drought, famine, constant warfare and injustices in the caste system. The intertwining lives of many unhappy souls are drawn together by the birth of the young prince Siddhartha, who embarks on a spiritual journey, and becomes Gautama Buddha, \"the Enlightened One\", and attempts to bring about a spiritual rebirth of the people in this desperate age.\n\n\n\nIn 2009, an animated feature-length film adaptation of \"Buddha\" was announced. The film is directed by Kozo Morishita, produced by Tezuka Productions, animated by Toei Animation and distributed by Toei Company and Warner Bros. Pictures. The film was released on May 28, 2011 during the celebrations of the 750th memorial of Shinran Shonin, founder of the Jōdo Shinshū sect. Influential metal band X Japan composed and recorded \"Scarlet Love Song\" specifically to be the theme song of the film.\nA second film, , was released on February 8, 2014. A third film will also be produced.\n\nThe manga won the award for Best U.S. Edition of Foreign Material at the 2004 and 2005 Eisner Awards and received a nomination in 2006. It also won the award for Best American Edition of Foreign Material at the 2004 and 2005 Harvey Awards.\nThe film was nominated for the 2012 Japan Academy Prize for Animation of the Year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21866262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21866262", "title": "Caledonia Mills", "text": "Caledonia Mills\n\nIt is well known as the community of the Mary-Ellen spook farm, also known as the fire spook. It was alleged that the community experienced mysterious fires and poltergeist effects between 1899 and 1922. The case drew the attention of Arthur Conan Doyle, the author of Sherlock Holmes. Mary-Ellen's biological parents were John and Annie (Duggan) MacDonald and she was later adopted by Alexander and Janet MacDonald of Caledonia Mills.\n\nWalter Franklin Prince, research officer for the American Society for Psychical Research in 1922 investigated and concluded that the mysterious fires and alleged poltergeist phenomena were caused by Mary-Ellen in a dissociated state. Prince had discovered inflammable liquid and noted that \"the fires were undoubtedly set by human hands, judging by the unmistakable signs left in the house. The burns are never found on the wall paper higher than the reach of a person five feet tall, which is the height of [the] girl in the family.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46826545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46826545", "title": "Charlie Charlie challenge", "text": "Charlie Charlie challenge\n\nThe Charlie Charlie challenge is a modern incarnation of the Spanish paper-and-pencil game called \"Juego de la Lapicera\" (Pencil Game). Like a Magic 8-Ball, the game is played by teenagers using held or balanced pencils to produce answers to questions they ask. Teenage girls have played \"Juego de la Lapicera\" for generations in Spain and Hispanic America, asking which boys in their class like them.\n\nOriginally described on the Internet in 2008, the game was popularized in the English-speaking world in 2015, partly through the hashtag #CharlieCharlieChallenge. On 29 April 2015, an alarmist tabloid television newscast about the game being played in Hato Mayor Province of the Dominican Republic was uploaded to YouTube, and the unintentional humor in the report led to the game trending on Twitter, crossing the language barrier to be played around the world.\n\nIn an early version of the game, two players each hold two pencils in the shape of a square, pressing the ends of their pencils against the other player's. Like a Ouija board, it uses the ideomotor phenomenon, with players moving the pencils without conscious control.\n\nThe two pencil game involves crossing two pens or pencils to create a grid (with sectors labelled \"yes\" and \"no\") and then asking questions to a \"supernatural entity\" named \"Charlie.\" The upper pencil is then expected to rotate to indicate the answer to such questions. The first question everyone asks by speaking into the pencils is \"can we play?\" or \"are you here?\" or \"are you there?\" \n\nThe top pencil is precariously balanced on a central pivot point, meaning that it can easily rotate on the pivot due to slight wind gusts, or the breathing of players expecting the pencil to move.\n\nIn Spain, teenage girls have played \"Juego de la Lapicera\" for generations in school playgrounds and sleepovers to find which boys in their class found them attractive.\n\nAccording to Caitlyn Dewey of \"The Washington Post,\" this game is valuable as an example of cross-cultural viral trends: Charlie makes a killer case study in virality and how things move in and out of languages and cultures online. You'll notice, for instance, a lot of players and reporters talking about the game as if it were new, when it's actually—and more interestingly, I think—an old game that has just recently crossed the language divide. Maria Elena Navez of BBC Mundo said \"There's no demon called 'Charlie' in Mexico,\" and suggested that Mexican demons with English names (rather than, say, \"Carlitos\") are \"usually American inventions.\" Urban legend expert David Emery says that some versions of the game have copied the ghost story La Llorona, popular in Hispanic America, but the pencil game is not a Mexican tradition. Joseph Laycock, a professor of religious studies at Texas State University argued that while Charlie is \"most often described as a “Mexican ghost,” it appears that Christian critics reframed the game as Satanic almost immediately\" due to their desire to \"claim a monopoly on wholesome encounters with the supernatural.\"\n\nIn May 2015, \"The Racket Report\", a parody website that describes itself as \"not intended to communicate any true or factual information,\" posted a hoax article claiming that 500 \"mysterious\" deaths had resulted from playing the Charlie Charlie Challenge. The Fiji Sun reported claims made by the satire website as news in June. The Fijian Ministry of Education banned the game, and three Fijian teachers in Tavua were taken to a police station for questioning over allegations they forced their students to play it, before being cleared of all charges.\n\nIn May 2015, four teenage girls were sent to a hospital in Tunja and quickly released with a diagnosis of mass hysteria.\n\nKate Knibbs writes that \"once the paranormal fad went viral, it didn’t take long for Christian fearmongers to warn against calling on the nefarious spirit world.\" Pat Robertson denounced the Charlie Charlie challenge as demonic. Several exorcists promoted the idea that the game caused spirit possession, a concern repeated by Muslims in Jamaica and the UAE. Various media outlets described participants in the games as \"gullible\".\n\nIn April 2017, the East Libyan government banned the game, blaming it for 6 suicides.\n\nPsychological suggestion can lead people to expect a particular response, which can result in thoughts and behaviors that will help bring the anticipated outcome to fruition – for instance by breathing more heavily. Chris French, head of the anomalistic psychology research unit at the University of London says that human agent detection leads people to see patterns in random events and perceive an intelligence behind them. He argues that divination games involve magical thinking, saying \"Often the 'answers' received [in divination games] might be vague and ambiguous, but our inherent ability to find meaning—even when it isn't there—ensures that we will perceive significance in those responses and be convinced that an intelligence of some kind lay behind them.\" Kate Knibbs, writing in Gizmodo described the game as \"a Vine-ready pastiche of kitsch occultism\" that \"has the familiar pull of pareidolia\" where people interpret patterns as having a meaning.\n\nStuart Vyse, a psychology professor at Connecticut College argues that teenagers often go to see paranormal movies in groups, and \"There's a real social bonding aspect to this whole phenomenon,\" and \"It's almost a developmental passage for some kids, to deal with things that are scary.\" Donald Saucier, a psychology professor at Kansas State University argues that teenagers go through \"a period where social influence is very strong\" and they are more prone to superstition. Stephen Schlozman, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School said \"I think kids are interested in the dares that aren't actually all that dangerous, but have that feeling of danger to them.\" Sharon Hill argues that teenagers playing the game \"overreact because of the peer situation.\"\n\nPastor Carl Gallups told WPTF news radio \"I have done some experiments with this, and I think people are being punked. On my desk in front of me, I have the two pencils set up and the one on the top that is balanced is easily moved by just a puff of air.\" He continued, \"I held my phone up to pretend like I was filming it and just started breathing a little heavy, but it's indiscernible to anybody around, and the pencil just moves so easily.\" Fred Clark and Rebecca Watson liken the phenomenon of pencils moving on a desk to James Hydrick's debunked claim that he could move a pencil on a desk by psychokinesis.\n\nAndrew Griffin wrote in \"The Independent\" that the game is \"perhaps scarier than a Ouija board because it doesn't have the same explanations. With those boards, players have to keep hold of a glass while it moves around the table—so it's not difficult to imagine that people might be pushing it around without knowing it.\"\n\nDavid Emery argues parsimoniously that when simple scientific explanations \"can sufficiently explain why a phenomenon occurs, there's no reason to assume supernatural forces are at work.\" Despite simple scientific explanations being offered by science journalists, these are less readily available in mainstream news outlets.\n\nThe producers of the horror film \"The Gallows\" promoted their film on the bandwagon of the game, releasing a video clip featuring the game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21700616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21700616", "title": "Cheltenham Science Festival", "text": "Cheltenham Science Festival\n\nCheltenham Science Festival is one of the UK's leading science festivals, and is part of Cheltenham Festivals: also responsible for the Jazz, Music and Literature Festivals that run every year. \n\nThe 2018 Cheltenham Science Festival (6 - 11 June) was held in Imperial Square, Cheltenham.\nThe youngest of the Cheltenham Festivals, the \"Cheltenham Science Festival\" was first held in 2002, and has quickly grown to become one of the most significant of its kind in the UK.\n\nThe guest directors for Cheltenham Science Festival 2017 are television presenter and actor Dallas Campbell and former NASA Chief Scientist Ellen Stofan. The Festival has attracted many significant names in Science over the years, including Robert Winston (the first 'guest director' in 2004), David Puttnam (Director 2005), Jonathon Porritt (Director 2007), Adam Hart-Davis, Susan Greenfield, Richard Dawkins, Lucy Hawking, A. C. Grayling, Tony Robinson and Richard Hammond. In 2014 the guest directors were BAFTA winning naturalist Steve Backshall and radio and TV presenter Richard Bacon. \n\nThe Cheltenham Science Festival aims to engage in entertaining, challenging and deliberately discussing controversial issues and experiences. The 2017 programme contains over 140 events across six-days, including a number of dedicated family events. \n\nA main feature of the festival is the Discover Zone. Billed as 'Interactive Science for all ages', it is a free interactive exhibition space that takes up the main space of Cheltenham's Town Hall.\n\nFameLab was set up in 2005 by Cheltenham Science Festival in partnership with NESTA. In Famelab, contestants give short (maximum three minute) presentations unaided by slides on an area of science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) that they have been researching. They aim to give their presentation in a way that engages the general public, not simply scientists etc. who already have technical or specific knowledge on the area. This point is taken into account by the judging panel, usually science communicators themselves, who assess the communicators on clarity, content and communication before deciding who to put through to the next round of competition. Famelab has regional heats in its participating countries, followed by national finals and then the international finals taking place every year at Cheltenham Science Festival. \n\nIn 2007, the competition was adopted by the British Council as one of its flagship science engagement projects, first as a South East Europe pilot. By 2010, Famelab expanded to include 14 nations across Europe, Asia and Africa, setting the stage for a growing global phenomenon. In 2015 the competition operated in 30 locations including the USA via NASA, 29 of which participated in international finals in June 2015. The International Grand Final at the Cheltenham Science Festival in June 2015 was streamed on the internet throughout the world.\n\nAt Cheltenham Science Festival the International Finals of Famelab consist of three international semi-finals where judges listen to the three-minute presentations from the international finalists, then ask them questions about the topic of the contestant's talk before deliberating on which scientists to select for the international final, held at the end of the festival in the 800-seater Arena. Former Material World radio presenter Quentin Cooper was compere during the final. \n\nOver 4,000 young science communicators (\"Famelabbers\") have participated in Famelab competitions in their home countries, about 100 of which also represented their home countries at the Cheltenham Science Festival in the UK. It is fairly common in Famelab competitions that a Famelabber may not originate in the country they represent at the international finals, such as Bechara Saab (originally from Canada), who was the first to represent Switzerland at the International Grand Final, and Didac Carmona (originally from Spain), who represented Austria and won the International Grand Final in 2012. Famelab International 2014 was won by Pádraic Flood, originally from Ireland, representing the tripartite Benelux. \n\nAlso at the International Final two joint runners-up are announced as decided by the final judges, an audience winner voted for by the live audience in the arena via keypad is crowned and finally an alumni award is given to the winner of a worldwide online vote by juries in all the participating Famelab nations.\n\n\nThe creation of The Times Science Hub, which incorporated a cafe, the Festival Box Office, bookshop and Talking Point became a focal point for activity, where people could spend time when not in events.\n\n\n\nFor 2013, the introduction of the MRC Helix Theatre and return of the GE Pavilion for its second year marked even further growth in the development of the festival.\n\n\n\nCelebrating the 11th Cheltenham Science Festival, the theme is 'RE:Generation', \"With a whole host of linked events from nerve regeneration to business regeneration through science.\" There have also been invited comedians like Robin Ince.\n\nThis year marks an expansion of its adult focussed AREA 42 interactive zone and new collaborations\n\n\n\n\n\nIncluding:\n\nOne of the Festival Partners is Chosen Hill School, the first secondary school to ever sponsor the festival.\n\n\n\nSome of the major topics for 2008:\n\nA larger main area, two days of free outdoor activities, and more external events around Cheltenham. Also new - the 'Talking Point' - a place to continue debates and discussions inspired in events.\nThe year 2008 saw the creation of SciFest, the \"International Science Festival\", held in St Louis USA. This Science Festival was set up as a collaboration between Cheltenham Festivals and the St. Louis Science Center, in St Louis, Missouri, USA; and is run in a similar way to the UK festival on which it is based.\n\n\n\nSome of the major topics for 2007:\n\n\nNo named Guest Director.\n\n\nThe ExperiTent was introduced this year which was used for hands-on workshops aimed at schools and families.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis year saw the introduction of a Guest Director who programmes events related to their area of interest and expertise.\nThe first two years saw events taking place in the Cheltenham Town Hall and the Everyman theatre. This year, the Everyman was not used and instead The Arena, a large marquee built on gardens outside the Town Hall, was introduced which was used as the venue for the more popular events.\n\n\n\n\nThe Cheltenham Science Festival is one of the four festivals that Cheltenham Festivals run each year. Combined with the Jazz, Music and Literature Festivals, Cheltenham Festivals host over 700 events across 12 months. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37676192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37676192", "title": "Clermont-Ferrand International Short Film Festival", "text": "Clermont-Ferrand International Short Film Festival\n\nThe Clermont-Ferrand International Short Film Festival (French: Festival international du court métrage de Clermont-Ferrand) is the biggest international film festival dedicated to short films. It is held annually in Clermont-Ferrand, France, and is the second largest film festival in France after Cannes, in terms of audience and professional attendance, boasting over 160,000 attendees and 3,500 professionals annually.\n\nIn 1979, a Short Film Week was organised by the Clermont-Ferrand University Film Society. This event was repeated in 1980 and 1981, and was enthusiastically received. In 1982, the Festival became competitive, with a jury attributing awards to films selected from the recent French short film production. International films were shown in special programs highlighting a particular theme, genre, country or region of the world. The audience was also presented with tributes to the great short film makers of the past and present.\n\nIn 1986, the first Clermont-Ferrand Short Film Market was organized, with the intention to raise the economic profile of the short films. The market contains a video library for French and foreign television buyers, distributors and festival programmers to view the all of the films in competition, as well as the films out of competition, that were submitted for consideration.\n\nClermont has been the biggest short film festival for 40 years, the essential meeting place for spectators, professionals, youngsters and school children. Audiences has a choice of 600 films, across all sections, and the three competitions (national, international and Lab). \nThe programming team receives each year more than 7000 short films submissions between March and October, included 1500 French productions.\n\nThe festival has revealed many directors who then launched their film career successfully, for example:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9654871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9654871", "title": "De Kleine Komedie", "text": "De Kleine Komedie\n\nDe Kleine Komedie is today the oldest theatre in Amsterdam, dating from 1788. Situated on the Amstel near the Halvemaansteeg, the building offers a stage for both upcoming and established Dutch talents. The theatre has 503 seats. \n\nThe first theatre built in Amsterdam was the Schouwburg of Van Campen on Keizersgracht 384 in 1637, which burned down in 1772. That theatre company then moved to the Leidseplein, where it built a theatre in 1774, the first Stadsschouwburg. That building burned down in 1892 (the present building was built in 1894), making De Kleine Komedie the oldest surviving theatre in Amsterdam. \n\nIn 1784 Henry Hope of Hope & Co. purchased ground on the Amstel near the east side of the Halvemaansteeg in Amsterdam, together with his fellow banker friends Balthazar Elias Abbema, Pieter de Smeth, Henry Fizeaux, Jean Alexander Botereau, and Pieter Muilman. They commissioned the building to the architect Abraham van der Hart who completed it in 1788. The commissioners were all very influential men of Amsterdam who had far reaching connections. Henry Fizeaux was a banker who had close ties with John Adams and Benjamin Franklin. He tried to raise funds for the American cause and shared revolutionary sympathies, though merchant tradition was to deny political preferences. The 'Patriotic' or 'Anti-Orange' sympathies of the directors Henry Fizeaux and Jean Alexander Botereau resulted in their stepping down in 1787 when the House of Orange was re-established. Orangist Henry Hope took over the running of the establishment until he fled the country before Napoleon's army in 1794. \n\nIt was called the Théâtre Français sur l'Erwtemarkt in 1794, the year performances began. In those days, the performances were often in French and modelled on a Parisian theater form that was very popular. Napoleon himself supported the Théâtre Français, and French opera's and plays were shown in the theatre well into the 19th century.\n\nWhen the interest in French plays decreased, the building was sold to the 'Neues Deutsches Theater' that performed German plays. In 1856 the building came into the hands of the Free Church of Scotland and was rechristened 'Scottish Missionary Church'. The driving force behind the Dutch branch of this church was the Rev. August Ferdinand Carl Schwartz (1817–1870), the father of the novelist Maarten Maartens.\n\nWhen the Vrije Universiteit (Free University) of Amsterdam started in 1880, it hired some rooms in the Scottish Missionary Church and used them as lecture rooms. Here the founder Abraham Kuyper and his four co-professors gave their lectures. In 1883 the Scottish Missionary Church became too small for the quickly growing number of students and the university bought another building.\n\nIn the first half of Twentieth Century the building was called Salvatori and was used as a meeting centre. The most various groups met here, from orthodox Protestants to leftist freethinkers. During the Second World War the building was no more than a bicycle shed.\n\nIn 1947 the building was reopened as a theatre, now under its present name 'De Kleine Komedie'. Since then its program is primarily in Dutch. In the Fifties and Sixties many famous people in the Dutch entertainment world, like Toon Hermans, Wim Kan and Fons Jansen, made appearances in this theatre. In 1973 the building was closed by the Amsterdam fire brigade due to fire hazard. After a renovation financed by private sources, it was reopened in 1978.\n\nIn 1988 the continued existence of De Kleine Komedie was put in danger again, when the municipality of Amsterdam wanted to withdraw its subsidy. A campaign launched by the cabaret performer Youp van 't Hek secured the theatre's subsidy.\n\nBecause of its cosy atmosphere De Kleine Komedie is often used for try-out performances by upcoming talents as well as long-established cabaret performers. Many DVD and TV productions are recorded here.\n"}
{"id": "27983244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27983244", "title": "Dignified death", "text": "Dignified death\n\nDignified death is a somewhat elusive concept often related to suicide. One factor that has been cited as a core component of dignified death is maintaining a sense of control. Another view is that a truly dignified death is an extension of a dignified life. There is some concern that assisted suicide does not guarantee a dignified death, since some patients may experience complications such as nausea and vomiting. There is some concern that age discrimination denies the elderly a dignified death.\n"}
{"id": "300678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300678", "title": "Ethchlorvynol", "text": "Ethchlorvynol\n\nEthchlorvynol is a GABA-ergic sedative and hypnotic/soporific medication developed by Pfizer in the 1950s. In the United States it was sold by Abbott Laboratories under the tradename Placidyl. Placidyl was available in 200 mg., 500 mg., and 750 mg. strength capsules. While the 500 mg. and 750 mg. strength capsules were for use in reducing sleep latency, the 200 mg. strength capsules were intended to be used to re-induce sleep in case of early awakening. Abbott discontinued production in 1999,due to it being replaced by the benzodiazepine family and it's widespread abuse, after which Placidyl was available for about a year in the United States. Although, theoretically, ethchlorvynol could be manufactured for sale in the United States by another pharmaceutical company (subject to FDA approval of such manufacture), no pharmaceutical company has chosen to do so. Individuals with a valid prescription for the substance may legally transport a reasonable amount of ethclorvynol with them into the United States.\n\nEthchlorvynol was used to treat insomnia, but prescriptions for the drug had fallen significantly by 1990, as other hypnotics that were considered safer (i.e., less dangerous in overdose) became much more common. It is no longer prescribed in the United States due to unavailability, but it is still available in some countries and would still be considered legal to possess and use with a valid prescription.\n\nAlong with expected sedative effects of relaxation and drowsiness, adverse reactions to ethchlorvynol include skin rash, faintness, restlessness and euphoria. Early adjustment side effects may include nausea and vomiting, numbness, blurred vision, stomach pains and temporary dizziness. There are no specific antidotes available for ethchlorvynol, and treatment is supportive with protocols resembling those for the treatment of barbiturate overdose. Overdose may be marked by a variety of symptoms, including confusion, fever, peripheral numbness and weakness, reduced coordination and muscle control, slurred speech, reduced heartbeat, respiratory depression, and in extreme overdoses, coma and death.\n\nAs with all GABAA receptor agonists, Placidyl can be habit forming and extremely physically addictive (with potentially lethal withdrawal resembling delirium tremens and benzodiazepine withdrawal). After prolonged use, withdrawal symptoms may include convulsions, hallucinations, and amnesia. As with most hypnotics, Placidyl was indicated for use in the treatment of insomnia for a short period of time (a week or two). However, it was nonetheless not uncommon for doctors to prescribe Placidyl (and other hypnotics) for extended periods of time, as currently prescribed soporifics are today.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, ethchlorvynol was sometimes over-prescribed causing a minor epidemic of persons who quickly became addicted to this powerful drug. Occasional deaths would occur when addicted persons would try to inject the drug directly into a vein or an artery. Ethchlorvynol is not compatible with intravenous injection and serious injury (including the loss of limbs due to vascular injury) or death can occur when it is used in this manner.\n\nEthchlorvynol is a member of the class of sedative-hypnotic carbinols, which includes methylparafynol and \"tert\"-amyl alcohol. It is not a benzodiazepine, carbamate, or barbituric acid derivative, and its molecular structure is considerably simpler. The systematic name of ethchlorvynol is usually given as ethyl 2-chlorovinyl ethynyl carbinol or 1-chloro-3-ethylpent-1-en-4-yn-3-ol. Its empirical formula is CHClO.\n\nEthchlorvynol is synthesized by an ethynylation reaction using lithium acetylide and 1-chloro-1-penten-3-one in liquid ammonia, followed by acidic work-up.\n\nThe carbamate ester of ethchlorvynol (CAS 74283-25-3) was investigated and was shown to have a slower onset, longer duration and increased potency but was not developed commercially.\n\n"}
{"id": "239376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239376", "title": "Field of the Cloth of Gold", "text": "Field of the Cloth of Gold\n\nThe Field of the Cloth of Gold () was a site in Balinghem between Ardres in France and Guînes in the then-English Pale of Calais that hosted a summit from 7 to 24 June 1520, between King Henry VIII of England and King Francis I of France.\n\nThe summit was arranged to increase the bond of friendship between the two kings following the Anglo-French treaty of 1514. These two monarchs would meet again in 1532 to arrange Francis's assistance in pressuring Pope Clement VII to pronounce Henry's first marriage as illegitimate. Under the guidance of English Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, the chief nations of Europe sought to outlaw war forever among Christian nations.\n\nThe site is indicated by a commemorative plaque on the D231 road (Route de Marquise) at . Though now in France, Balinghem was at the time regarded as part of England. This was probably the main reason for it as the choice of meeting place; being English territory but surrounded by France renders it as close to neutral territory as was practicable.\n\nTwo entities had started to emerge as powers in Western Europe at this time: France, under Francis I, and the Habsburg Empire, under Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. The Kingdom of England, still a lesser power, was being courted as an ally by the two major powers. The 1518 Treaty of London, a non-aggression pact between major European powers, to help resist the Ottoman expansion into southeastern Europe, had just been signed. Henry also held meetings with Charles V a month before the Field of Cloth of Gold in the Netherlands and again afterwards at Calais, Henry's only possession on the Continent.\n\nBoth Henry and Francis wished to be seen as Renaissance princes. Renaissance thinking held that a strong prince could choose peace from a place of strength. The meeting was designed to show how magnificent each court was, and how this could be a basis for mutual respect and peace between nations that were traditional enemies. Henry and Francis were also similar figures of similar age and dashing reputations, so there was almost certainly a mutual curiosity.\n\nEverything was arranged to provide equality between the two groups. The meeting place was at the very edge of the English territory around Calais. The valley where the first meeting took place was landscaped to provide areas of equal elevation for the two national parties. The whole event was planned and executed by Cardinal Thomas Wolsey, a charismatic, eloquent master diplomat who as a papal legate had immense power in the name of the pope (Leo X at the time of the meeting). Included among the English guests were Thomas More, and Anne Boleyn's mother and sister.\n\nAn earlier meeting between the kings of England and France presaged this one. From 27 to 30 October 1396, Charles VI of France and Richard II of England had met at Ardres near Calais to treat for peace during the Hundred Years' War. The scale, splendour and pageantry was comparable to the later Field of Cloth of Gold meeting held on the same site in 1520.\n\nEach king tried to outshine the other, with dazzling tents and clothes, huge feasts, music, jousting and games. The tents and the costumes displayed so much cloth of gold, an expensive fabric woven with silk and gold thread, that the site of the meeting was named after it.\n\nThe most elaborate arrangements were made for the accommodation of the two monarchs and their large retinues; and on Henry's part especially no efforts were spared to make a great impression in Europe with this meeting. Before the castle of Guînes, a temporary palace covering an area of nearly , was erected for the reception of the English king. The palace was in four blocks with a central courtyard; each side was long. The only solid part was the brick base about high. Above the brickwork, the 30-foot (10 metre) high walls were made of cloth or canvas on timber frames, painted to look like stone or brick. One further aspect of King Henry's retinue was the presence of two royal monkeys covered in gold leaf; these were known to have been gifts from the Ottoman Sultan Selim I and brought much laughter and merriment from Francis I as contemporary Cardinal Wolsey recounts, \"The French King was overcome with much curiosity playing with those little knaves that did all they could to steal and pester his advisers, yet he willed them to be present at every banquet\". The slanting roof was made of oiled cloth painted to give the colour of lead and the illusion of slates. Contemporaries commented especially on the huge expanse of glass, which made visitors feel they were in the open air. Chronicle descriptions make it clear the decorations, carved and painted had martial iconography;\n\nThe building was decorated in the most sumptuous fashion and furnished with a profusion of golden ornaments. Red wine flowed from the two fountains outside. The chapel was served by 35 priests. Composer Jean Mouton was most likely in charge of the musical production by Francis I; the French royal chapel had one of the finest choirs in Europe, and contemporary accounts indicated that they \"delighted their hearers.\" The wooden ceiling for one of the tents may later have been installed in the New Chapel at Ightham Mote where, with its colours faded, one with appropriate features can still be seen. Musical production on the English side was probably led by composer William Cornysh the Younger, master of the Royal Chapel for Henry VIII.\n\nSome idea of the size of Henry's following may be gathered from the fact that in one month 2200 sheep and other viandes in a similar proportion were consumed. In the fields beyond the castle, 2800 tents were erected for less distinguished visitors.\n\nJourneying from Calais, Henry reached his headquarters at Guînes on 4 June 1520, and Francis took up his residence at Ardres. After Cardinal Wolsey, with a splendid train, had visited the French king, the two monarchs met at the Val d'Or, a spot midway between the two places, on 7 June.\n\nThe following days were taken up with tournaments, in which both kings took part. There were banquets in which the kings entertained each other's queens. The many other entertainments included archery displays and wrestling between Breton and Cornish wrestlers.\nWolsey said Mass and the two sovereigns separated on 24 June, Corpus Christi. The painting depicts a dragon flying overhead and this could be interpreted to mean that the Mass itself was interrupted by a mysterious event thought to be a dragon or salamander flying over the congregation. The superstitious would have viewed this as a great portent, but it was probably a firework accidentally or deliberately set off. Alternatively the dragon in the painting could be interpreted as symbolic. The sermon was read by Richard Pace, an intimate friend of Erasmus. Wolsey gave a general indulgence for all present.\n\nThis meeting made a great impression on contemporaries, but its political results were very small. While the carefully established rules of the tournament stated that the two kings would not compete against each other, Henry surprisingly challenged Francis in a wrestling match, but it turned sour for Henry when he quickly lost.\n\nRelations between the two countries worsened soon after the event when Cardinal Wolsey arranged an alliance with Charles V, who declared war on France later that year commencing the Italian War of 1521–26.\n\nA record of the list of participants survives in at least two places: in the Rutland Papers and in the Letters and Papers, Foreign and Domestic, of King Henry VIII, catalogued as \"Letters indented specifying, in accordance with the treaty of 12 March 1519, the number and rank of the lords, ladies and gentlemen to attend the King and Queen at the interview with Francis I\". The latter source lists the following:\n\n\"For the King: The cardinal of York, with 300 servants, of whom 12 shall be chaplains and 50 gentlemen, with 50 horses; one archbishop with 70 servants, of whom 5 shall be chaplains and 10 gentlemen, with 30 horses; 2 dukes, each with 70 servants, 5 to be chaplains and 10 gentlemen, with 30 horses. 1 marquis with 56 servants, 4 to be chaplains and 8 gentlemen; 26 horses. 10 earls, each with 42 servants, 3 to be chaplains and 6 gentlemen; 20 horses. 5 bishops, of whom the bishop of Winchester shall have 56 servants, 4 to be chaplains and 8 gentlemen; 26 horses;—each of the others, 44 servants, 4 to be chaplains and 6 gentlemen; 20 horses. 20 barons, each to have 22 servants, 2 to be chaplains and 2 gentlemen; 12 horses. 4 knights of the order of St. George, each to have 22 servants, 2 to be chaplains and 2 gentlemen; 48 horses. 70 knights, including Sir William Mathew, grandson of Sir David Ap Mathew of Wales. Each knight to have 12 servants, one to be a chaplain; 8 horses. Councillors of the long robe; viz., the King's secretary, the vice-chancellor, the dean of the Chapel, and the almoner, each to have 12 servants, one a chaplain, and 8 horses. 12 King's chaplains, each with 6 servants and 3 horses. 12 serjeants-at-arms, each with 1 servant and two horses. 200 of the King's guard with 100 horses. 70 grooms of the chamber, with 150 servants and 100 horses among them; 266 officers of the house, with 216 servants and 70 horses; 205 grooms of the stable and of the armories, with 211 horses. The earl of Essex, being earl marshal, shall have, beside the number above stated, 130 servants and 100 light horses. Sum total of the King's company, 3,997 persons and 2,087 horses\".\n\n\"For the Queen: 1 duchess, with 4 women, 6 servants and 12 horses; 10 countesses, with 3 women and 4 servants, and 8 horses each; 12 baronesses, with 2 women, 3 servants and 6 horses each. 20 knights' ladies, with 1 woman, 2 servants and 4 horses each; 14 ladies, with 1 woman, 2 servants and 3 horses each; 6 ladies of the chamber, with 1 servant and 2 horses each; 1 earl, with 42 servants, 3 to be chaplains and 9 gentlemen; horses 20. 3 bishops, to have 44 servants, 4 to be chaplains and 6 gentlemen; horses 60. 4 barons, with 22 servants, 2 to be chaplains and 2 gentlemen; horses 48. 30 knights, with 12 servants, 1 to be a chaplain; horses 240; 6 chaplains with 3 servants and 2 horses each. Grooms 50, officers of the King's chamber, with 20 servants and 30 horses; officers of the King's stable 60, with 70 horses. Sum total of the Queen's company, 1,175 persons and 778 horses.\n\n\"Names of those appointed to attend the king of England at the Congress:\n\nCommissioners appointed to oversee those who shall accompany the king of France:—The earl of Essex, Lord Abergavenny, Sir Edw. Ponynges, Sir Rob. Wingfield.\n\nCommissioners to give orders to the gentlemen:—Sir Edw. Belknapp, Sir Nich. Vaux, Sir John Peche, Sir Maurice Berkeley.\n\nCommissioners to give orders to the foot soldiers:—Sir Weston Browne, Sir Edw. Ferrers, Sir Rob. Constable, Sir Ralph Egerton, Sir Thomas Lucy, Sir John Marney.\n\nTo ride with the king of England at the embracing of the two kings:—The Legate, archbishop of Canterbury, dukes of Buckingham and Suffolk, marquis of Dorset. Bishops:—Durham, Armagh, Ely, Chichester, Rochester, Exeter, Hereford. Earls:—Stafford, Northumberland, Westmoreland, Shrewsbury, Worcester, Devonshire, Kent, Wiltshire, Derby, Kildare. Barons:—Maltravers, Montagu, Herbert, the grand prior of St. John of England, Roos, Fitzwalter, Hastings, Delaware, Dacre, Ferrers, Cobham, Daubeney, Lumley, Sir Henry Marney, Sir Wm. Sandys, Thomas Boleyn, Lord Howard.\n\nThe servants of the king of England shall march next their King, preceded by the nobles and gentlemen of the Legate, who shall follow the gentlemen of the other lords. The King's guard to follow him in their accustomed places.\n\nThe names of those who will be with the French king when he meets the king of England: the king of Navarre; dukes of Alençon, Bourbon, Vendosme and Lorraine; count of Saint Pol; prince de la Roche Suryon; count of Dreux and Rhetel, Sieur Dorval and governor of Champaigne; count of Benon, sieur de la Tremoille, first Chamberlain, admiral of Guyenne and governor of Burgundy; count of Estampes and Caravats, sieur de Boysy, grand master and governor of the Dauphin; Bonnyvet, admiral of France, Lautrec, La Palisse and Chastillon, marshals; count of Guyse, brother of the duke of Lorraine; the bastard of Savoy, count of Villars and Beaufort, governor of Provence; count de Laval; mons. de Chasteaubriant; count of Harcourt; princes of Orange and Tallemont; mons. de Nevers; mons d'Esparrox, lieutenant of Guyenne, and count of Montfort; Mess. de Lescun and Montmorency; le Grand Escuyer; counts de la Chambre, Tonnerre, Brienne, Joigny, Bremie and Mont Reuel; mons. d'Albret. The other knights of the Order. The king's household, 200 gentlemen; St. Vallier and the grand seneschal of Normandy, captains. 400 archers of the guard, and 4 captains; 100 Swiss, De Florenges, captain; maîtres d'hôtel, pannetiers, valets, &c.; gentlemen of the council and of the finances. The other pensioners will remain in their houses. Francis will bring with him the above company, if the king of England thinks it suitable; but if not, he will diminish it. These noblemen will only have with them about 200 horses.\n\nNoblemen's names that shall accompany the French \"(sic)\" (English?) king at the meeting at Calais. The King's Council. My lord Cardinal. The Privy Seal. The bishops of Lincoln, Norwich, Hereford and Rochester. The dukes of Norfolk and Buckingham. The marquis Dorset. The earls of Surrey, Shrewsbury, Worcester, Derby, Northumberland, Essex and Wiltshire. The lords of St. John, Burgevenny, Devonshire, Montague, Mounteagle, Cobham, Ferys, Fitzwalter, Dudley, Dacres of the South, Darcy, Conyers, Audeley, Broke and Fitzwarren. The deans of the Chapel and of Paul's. The archdeacon of Richmond. The dean of Salisbury. Dr. Syxtyne. Dr. Clark. The abbots of Glastonbury, Westminster, Bury and Winchecombe. All knights and others of the King's council. The secretaries in Latin, French and English. The clerks of the Privy Seal and Signet. The heralds. The officers of the household. The minstrels.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1396185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396185", "title": "Five Holy Wounds", "text": "Five Holy Wounds\n\nIn Christian tradition, the Five Holy Wounds also known as the Five Sacred Wounds or the Five Precious Wounds are the five piercing wounds Jesus Christ suffered during the crucifixion. The wounds have been the focus of particular devotions, especially in the late Middle Ages, and have often been reflected in church music and art.\n\nWhile in the course of his Passion Jesus suffered various wounds, such as those from the crown of thorns and from the scourging at the pillar. Medieval popular piety focused upon the five wounds associated directly with Christ's crucifixion, i.e., the nail wounds on his hands and feet as well as the lance wound which pierced his side.\n\nThe revival of religious life and the zealous activity of Bernard of Clairvaux and Francis of Assisi in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, together with the enthusiasm of the Crusaders returning from the Holy Land, gave a rise to devotion to the Passion of Jesus Christ.\n\nMany medieval prayers in honour of the Sacred Wounds, including some attributed to Clare of Assisi have been preserved. St. Mechtilde and St. Gertrude of Helfta were devoted to the Holy Wounds, the latter saint reciting daily a prayer in honour of the 5466 wounds, which, according to a medieval tradition, were inflicted on Jesus during His Passion. In the fourteenth century it was customary in southern Germany to recite fifteen Pater Nosters each day (which thus amounted to 5475 in the course of a year) in memory of the Sacred Wounds.\n\nThere was in the medieval Missals a special Mass in honour of Christ's Wounds, known as the Golden Mass, During its celebration five candles were always lighted and it was popularly held that if anyone should say or hear it on five consecutive days he should never suffer the pains of hell fire.\n\nThe Dominican Rosary also helped to promote devotion to the Sacred Wounds, for while the fifty small beads refer to Mary, the five large beads and the corresponding Pater Nosters are intended to honour the Five Wounds of Christ. Again, in some places it was customary to ring a bell at noon on Fridays, to remind the faithful to recite five Paters and Aves in honour of the Holy Wounds.\n\nThe five wounds comprised one through each hand or wrist, one through each foot, and one to the chest.\n\n\nThe examination of the wounds by \"Doubting Thomas\" the Apostle, reported only in the Gospel of John at , was the focus of much commentary and often depicted in art, where the subject has the formal name of the Incredulity of Thomas.\n\nIn his 1761 book, \"The Passion and Death of Jesus Christ\", Saint Alphonsus Maria de Liguori, founder of the Redemptorist Fathers, listed among various pious exercises, the \"Little Chaplet of the Five Wounds of Jesus Crucified\"\nThe Passionist Chaplet of the Five Wounds was developed in Rome in 1821. A corona of the Five Wounds was approved by the Holy See on 11 August 1823, and again in 1851. It consists of five divisions, each composed of five Glories in honour of Christ's Wounds and one Ave in commemoration of the Sorrowful Mother. The blessing of the beads is reserved to the Passionists.\n\nThe \"Rosary of the Holy Wounds\" (also called the \"Chaplet of Holy Wounds\"), was first introduced at the beginning of the 20th century by the Venerable Sister Marie Martha Chambon, a lay Roman Catholic Sister of the \"Monastery of the Visitation Order\" in Chambéry, France.\n\nAs early as 1139 Afonso I of Portugal put the emblem of the five wounds on his coat of arms as king of Portugal.\n\nThe Cross of Jerusalem, or \"Crusaders’ Cross\", remembers the Five wounds through its five crosses. The Holy Wounds have been used as a symbol of Christianity. Participants in the Crusades would often wear the Jerusalem cross, an emblem representing the Holy Wounds; a version is still in use today in the flag of Georgia. The \"Five Wounds\" was the emblem of the \"Pilgrimage of Grace\", a northern English rebellion in response to Henry VIII's Dissolution of the Monasteries.\n\nWhen consecrating an altar a number of Christian churches anoint it in five places, indicative of the Five Holy Wounds. Eastern Orthodox churches will sometimes have five domes on them, symbolizing the Five Holy Wounds, along with the alternate symbolism of Christ and the Four Evangelists.\n\nThe medieval poem \"Salve mundi salutare\" (also known as the \"Rhythmica oratio\") was formerly ascribed to St. Bonaventure or Bernard of Clairvaux, but now is thought more likely to have been written by the Cistercian abbot Arnulf of Leuven (d. 1250). A lengthy meditation upon the Passion of Christ, it is composed of seven parts, each pertaining to one of the members of Christ's crucified body. Popular in the 17th-century, it was arranged as a cycle of seven cantatas in 1680 by Dieterich Buxtehude. His 1680 \"Membra Jesu Nostri\" is divided into seven parts, each addressed to a different member of Christ's crucified body: feet, knees, hands, side, breast, heart, and head framed by selected Old Testament verses containing prefigurements.\n\nThe cantata has come down to us more widely known as the hymn O Sacred Head Surrounded named for the closing stanza of poem addressed to Christ's head which begins \"Salve caput cruentatum.\" Translated by Lutheran hymnist Paul Gerhardt, Johann Sebastian Bach arranged the melody and used five stanzas of the hymn in his \"St Matthew Passion\". Franz Liszt included an arrangement of this hymn at the sixth station, Saint Veronica wipes the Holy Face, in his \"Via crucis\" (Stations of the Cross).\n\nIn art the subject of Doubting Thomas, or the \"Incredulity of Saint Thomas\", has been common since at least the early 6th century, when it appears in the mosaics at Basilica of Sant'Apollinare Nuovo in Ravenna, and on the Monza ampullae. Among the most famous examples are the sculpted pair of \"Christ and St. Thomas\" by Andrea del Verrocchio (1467–1483) for the Orsanmichele in Florence and \"The Incredulity of Saint Thomas\" by Caravaggio, now in Potsdam.\n\nIn the later Middle Ages Jesus with one side of his robe pulled back, displaying the wound in his side and his other four wounds (called the ostentatio vulnerum, \"display of the wounds\"), was taken from images with the Doubting Thomas and turned into a pose adopted by Jesus alone, who often places his own fingers into the wound in his side. This form became a common feature of single iconic figures of Jesus and subjects such as the \"Last Judgement\" (where Bamberg Cathedral has an early example of about 1235), \"Christ in Majesty\", the \"Man of Sorrows\" and Christ with the \"Arma Christi\", and was used to emphasize Christ's suffering as well as the fact of his Resurrection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40750211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40750211", "title": "Format (magazine)", "text": "Format (magazine)\n\nFormat was a German weekly finance and business magazine published in Austria and headquartered in Vienna. The magazine existed between 1998 and 21 December 2015.\n\n\"Format\" was established in 1998. The magazine had its headquarters in Vienna and was published weekly on Fridays. The publisher was the Verlagsgruppe NEWS. Gruner + Jahr had a stake in the magazine. \n\n\"Format\" covered topics mainly on business, politics, culture and lifestyles. The magazine also featured the views of bankers, trade experts and financiers. One of its former editors-in-chief is Peter Pelinka. \n\nThe magazine merged with its sister publication \"Trend\" at the end of 2015. The last issue of \"Format\" was published on 21 December 2015.\n\n\"Format\" had a circulation of 68,000 copies in 2003. Its circulation was 50,000 copies in 2007. The sold circulation of the weekly was 47,155 copies in 2009. In 2010 its circulation was 61,000 copies. Its circulation in 2012 was 31,021 copies. The circulation of the magazine during the first half of 2013 increased to 39,296 copies. The magazine sold 50,000 copies in 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "28354713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28354713", "title": "Formula One Air Racing", "text": "Formula One Air Racing\n\nFormula One Air Racing is an American motorsport that involves small aircraft using engines up to 200 cubic inches in displacement. Racers can reach speeds over 200 mph.\n\nFormula One air racing is sanctioned by the International Aeronautics Federation.\nFormula One was first proposed in 1936 as \"midget racing\". The 190 Cubic in specification was set in 1946, and the first competition was set in 1947. Some 1930s air racers, like the Chester Jeep and Loose Special were retrofitted with smaller engines to compete. With the introduction of the Continental O-200 engine, the maximum engine displacement was raised to 200 cubic inches in 1968. Aircraft must have a minimum wing area of , and an empty weight of 500 pounds or more. The aircraft must also have fixed landing gear, and a fixed pitch propeller. Racers compete in a Oval course.\n\nSeveral aircraft were capable of meeting the specifications for Formula One at its creation. Specific designs were introduced shortly after that maximized speed for the configuration.\n\n"}
{"id": "46564920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46564920", "title": "George Chouliarakis", "text": "George Chouliarakis\n\nGeorge Chouliarakis (), also transliterated as Giorgos Houliarakis, is a Greek academic and politician who is currently an Alternate Minister of Finance in the Second Cabinet of Alexis Tsipras, serving under Euclid Tsakalotos. Chouliarakis was formerly the interim Minister of Finance in the caretaker government led by Vassiliki Thanou-Christophilou.\n\nHe is currently a lecturer in economics at the University of Manchester, and was also the chief negotiator for the Greek government in the run-up to the third bailout package.\n\nChouliarakis was born in Iasmos and studied economics at the University of Athens, before completing a Master's degree at the University of London. He later completed his PhD in economics at the University of Warwick.\n\nChouliarakis has taught economics at the University of Essex, and has been a research fellow at the Institute for Employment Research of the University of Warwick. He is currently the Jean Monnet Lecturer in European Economic Integration at the University of Manchester. He is also a visiting scholar at the Bank of Greece and a fellow of the Euro Area Business Cycle Network.\n\nHis research interests include macroeconomics, economic history, labour economics, international macroeconomics and the macroeconomics of monetary unions.\n\nChouliarakis has served as Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers (SOE), and in this capacity has accompanied ministers, such as Euclid Tsakalotos, to meetings in Brussels. He has also been described as an \"ally\" of the Deputy Prime Minister of Greece, Yannis Dragasakis.\n\nIn late April 2015, Chouliarakis was brought in as the chief Greek negotiator in the team negotiating the terms of the third bailout package. He replaced Nicholas Theocarakis, who was considered an ally of Yanis Varoufakis. Chouliarakis was praised by Thomas Wieser, the president of the EU's Economic and Financial Committee, as being a \"gifted negotiator\". He has been called \"the invisible negotiator\" by some of the Athens media due to being notoriously media-shy. The \"Wall Street Journal\" described him as a \"constructive interlocutor\".\n\nOn 28 August 2015, Chouliarakis was sworn in as the interim Minister of Finance in the Caretaker Cabinet of Vassiliki Thanou-Christophilou, replacing Euclid Tsakalotos. His appointment was praised by Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the president of the Eurogroup, who said: \"[Chouliarakis] knows what he's doing because he was top man in the ministry for the past year and half.\" Tsakalotos also praised his successor, saying: \"I am certain that with his work, as always, and with his devotion to the public good it would be difficult to think of a better interim finance minister, someone who loves what he does and does it very well.\"\n\nFollowing the September legislative election and the formation of the second Tsipras cabinet, Chouliarakis was re-appointed to the Ministry of Finance as an Alternate Minister of Finance, serving under Tsakalotos as Minister of Finance. His responsibilities included overseeing the national accounts office, \"a post seen as critical to achieving the ambitious fiscal targets set by the bailout programme\" according to the \"Financial Times\". Chouliarakis, in his capacity as an Alternate Minister of Finance, is also a member of the Board of Directors of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF). Chouliarakis has also resumed the role of Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors (SOE), and in that capacity is a member of the Board of Directors of the Greek Public Debt Management Agency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5885308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5885308", "title": "Hands On USA", "text": "Hands On USA\n\nHands On USA (HOUSA), now All Hands Volunteers, was a relief project established to help victims of Hurricane Katrina. HOUSA was organized by the non-profit relief organization Hands On Disaster Response.\n\nHOUSA was formed the week after Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of the United States.\n\nEntrepreneurs David Campbell and Darius A. Monsef co-founded HOUSA after meeting in Thailand while both were doing relief work following the 2004 Tsunami. Campbell served as the Executive Director for the Katrina Relief Project and Darius served as the Operations Director. Three months into the project Marc A. Young joined HOUSA as a second Operations Director.\n\nAfter four months of work in Mississippi, HOUSA handed their volunteer operation over to Hands On Network, based in Atlanta, Georgia. This operation was named Hands On Gulf Coast, which continued to operate a volunteer center out of the Beauvoir Methodist Church in Biloxi, Mississippi until February 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "34427828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34427828", "title": "Hill jumping", "text": "Hill jumping\n\nHill jumping is the act of accelerating a rally vehicle as it approaches the top of a hill, causing the vehicle to go airborne. The activity is also called \"hill topping\" and \"yumping\".\n\nHill jumping may take place at formalrally racing events or, at substantial risk to the health and safety of participants and third parties, on public roads at informal gatherings or by thrill seeking individuals.\n"}
{"id": "9986562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9986562", "title": "Israel's Son", "text": "Israel's Son\n\n\"Israel's Son\" is a song by Australian rock band Silverchair, released in 1995. It was the third single released from their debut full-length album, \"Frogstomp\", which was released earlier the same year. It was also released on their \"The Best of Volume 1\", and used on the soundtrack to the western version of \"\".\n\nIt is the only \"Frogstomp\" song the band still played live in the years prior to the band going into \"indefinite hibernation” in 2011. The song was taken half a step down, likely to compensate for Daniel Johns' changing vocals. \n\n\"Israel's Son\" is one of four songs on the album written solely by Johns.\n\nIn a January 1996 murder case, the defendant counsel for Brian Bassett, 16, and Nicholaus McDonald, 18, claimed that the pair listened to \"Israel's Son\", from \"Frogstomp\", which contributed to the murder of Bassett's parents and a younger brother on August 10, 1995. McDonald's lawyer cited the lyrics \"'Hate is what I feel for you/I want you to know that I want you dead'\" which were \"almost a script. They're relevant to everything that happened\".\nThe band's manager, John Watson, was quoted when he made this statement on behalf of the band, Silverchair:\n\n\"Silverchair do not, have not, and never would condone violence of any sort. The band is appalled by this horrific crime and they hope that justice will prevail in prosecuting whoever is responsible for it. The band extends its sincere sympathies to the families and friends of the victims in this case. Silverchair absolutely rejects any allegation that their song is in any way responsible for the actions of the alleged murders. It is a matter of public record that the song in question, Israel's Son, was inspired by a television documentary about wartime atrocities. Israel's Son was never intended to provoke violence and cannot be interpreted by an reasonable person as doing so. In fact, the song seeks to criticise violence and war by portraying them in all their horror.\"\n\nThe band's manager, Watson, issued a statement that they did not condone nor intend any such acts of violence, \"The band is appalled by this horrific crime, and they hope that justice will prevail\". Prosecutors rejected the defence case and convinced the jury that the murder was committed to \"steal money and belongings and run off to California.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23006469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23006469", "title": "Joseph I. Johnson", "text": "Joseph I. Johnson\n\nJoseph Inkerman Johnson was born in 1914 in Hulcote, Northamptonshire. He joined the RAF in June 1935 as an Aircrafthand (Carpenter). He was later remustered as an Airman-in training Pilot and won his wings on 11 August 1939 — three weeks before Britain declared war on Germany.\n\nIn May 1940 Sgt. Johnson was posted to 222 Squadron. In June he claimed the 'probable' destruction of a He 111 over Dunkirk. By August 1940 he had flown 25 missions. The squadron was posted to RAF Hornchurch on 29 August 1940.\n\nThe following day no. 222 Squadron was scrambled several times during the day, and at 16:00 hours to intercept a large formation of bombers in the direction of the Thames Estuary and were attacked by the escorting fighters. Flying a Spitfire Mk 1, \"R6628\" Johnson was shot down at 18:02 by a Messerschmitt Bf 109 and crashed near Bishopsbourne, south of Canterbury in Kent. It is believed that Johnson died before the crash.\n\nJohnson is buried in Towcester Cemetery in Northamptonshire. His grave is Row G, Grave 2 and it gives his service number — 520406. His name is included on the Battle of Britain Memorial at Capel-le-Ferne.\n"}
{"id": "37392778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37392778", "title": "José Saramago Prize", "text": "José Saramago Prize\n\nThe José Saramago Literary Prize has been awarded since 1999 by the Circulo de Leitores Foundation to a literary work written in Portuguese by a young author in which the first edition was published in a Lusophone country.It celebrates the attribution of the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1998 to the Portuguese writer José Saramago. The prize has a biannual periodicity, and a monetary value of . The jury is composed by 5 to 10 elements of distinguished merit in cultural stances.\n\n"}
{"id": "15848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15848", "title": "July 3", "text": "July 3\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42276835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42276835", "title": "Kunekune (urban legend)", "text": "Kunekune (urban legend)\n\nThe is a fictitious being created on Japanese Internet sites as an urban legend, similar to the infamous Slender Man. It was first mentioned in 2003 on several websites at the same time. On these websites, the Kunekune is considered to be a \"modern Yōkai\".\n\nThe Kunekune is said to resemble a long, slender, white and humanoid shape, like a paper mannequin or a piece of fine fabric. It is said that the being can be found at lunchtime during hot summer days. The Kunekune lingers in widely extended rice fields or acres, in rare cases it might be found over the open sea. Its limbs are said to wiggle permanently, as if there was a straight gust of wind, even if it was a windless day. This behaviour gave the being the Japanese name \"Kunekune\", meaning \"to twist\", \"to wiggle\" or \"to meander\".\n\nThe Kunekune allegedly can only be seen from a distance. In the countryside, it looks snow white. In a city, it looks pitch black. If someone tries to look at it up close, he will go insane. If someone touches it, or simply comes too close, the Kunekune will kill its victim. If someone instead just leaves, the Kunekune will ignore the person.\n\nFirst mention of the Kunekune appeared in 2003 at several websites at the same time. These websites deal with made-up stories concerning ghosts, demons and other kinds of spooks. Soon after first published reports, Kunekune-believers began to write and collect their own (mostly made up) stories. These are all written in the first person singular in attempt to make them look like eye-witness reports. A similar phenomenon can be observed with the case of the infamous Slender Man and with Hanako-san.\n\nThe appearance of the Kunekune may be the result of confusion with traditional scarecrows, which are found in fields of rice and barley. Scarecrows are seen in Japan as very scary and many local ghost stories claim that scarecrows come to life during the night, or if one stares at them too long. Another possible explanation might be thick fog clouds, which appear over the fields during lunchtime. A third possibility might be hallucinations, created by heat stroke and dehydration during hot summer days.\n\n"}
{"id": "943649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=943649", "title": "Liberty Alliance", "text": "Liberty Alliance\n\nThe Liberty Alliance Project was an organization formed in September 2001 to establish standards, guidelines and best practices for identity management in computer systems. \nIt grew to more than 150 organizations, including technology vendors, consumer-facing companies, educational organizations and governments. \nIt released frameworks for federation, identity assurance, an Identity Governance Framework, and Identity Web Services. \n\nBy 2009, the Kantara Initiative took over the work of the Liberty Alliance.\n\nThe group was originally conceived and named by Jeff Veis, at Sun Microsystems based in Menlo Park, California. The initiative's goal, which was personally promoted by Scott McNealy of Sun, was to unify technology, commercial and government organizations to create a standard for federated, identity-based Internet applications as an alternative to technology appearing in the marketplace controlled by a single entity such as Microsoft's Passport.\nAnother Microsoft initiative, HailStorm, was renamed My Services but quietly shelved by April 2002. Sun positioned the group as independent, and Eric C. Dean of United Airlines became its president. \n\nIn July 2002, the alliance announced Liberty Identity Federation (ID-FF) 1.0.\nAt that time, several member companies announced upcoming availability of Liberty-enabled products.\nLiberty Federation allowed consumers and users of Internet-based services and e-commerce applications to authenticate and sign-on to a network or domain once from any device and then visit or take part in services from multiple Web sites. This federated approach did not require the user to re-authenticate and can support privacy controls established by the user.\n\nThe Liberty Alliance subsequently released two more versions of the Identity Federation Framework, and then in November 2003, Liberty contributed its final version of the specification, ID-FF 1.2, to OASIS. This contribution formed the basis for SAML 2.0. By 2007, industry analyst firm Gartner claimed that SAML had gained wide acceptance in the community.\n\nLiberty Alliance releasing the Liberty Identity Web Services Framework (ID-WSF) in April 2004 for deploying and managing identity-based web services. Applications included geo-location, contact book, calendar, mobile messaging and People Service, for managing social applications such as bookmarks, blogs, calendars, photo sharing and instant messaging in a secure and privacy-respecting federated social network. \nIn a 2008 marketing report recommended considering it for federation.\n\nThe alliance introduced a certification program in 2003, designed to test commercial and open source products against published standards to assure base levels of interoperability between products. In 2007, the US General Services Administration began requiring this certification for participating in the US E-Authentication Identity Federation.\n\nIn January 2007, the alliance announced a project for open-source software developers building identity-based applications. OpenLiberty.org was a portal where developers can collaborate and access tools and information to develop applications based on alliance standards.\nIn November 2008, OpenLiberty released an open source application programming interface called ArisID.\n\nIn February 2007 Oracle Corporation contributed the Identity Governance Framework to the alliance, which released the first version publicly in July 2007.\nThe Identity Governance Framework defined how identity related information is used, stored, and propagated using protocols such as LDAP, Security Assertion Markup Language, WS-Trust, and ID-WSF.\n\nThe Liberty Alliance began work on its identity assurance framework in 2008. The Identity Assurance Framework (IAF) detailed four identity assurance levels designed to link trusted identity-enabled enterprise, social networking and Web applications together based on business rules and security risks associated with each level. The four levels of assurance were outlined by a 2006 document from the US National Institute of Standards and Technology.\nThe level of assurance provided is measured by the strength and rigor of the identity proofing process, the credential's strength, and the management processes the service provider applies to it. \nThese four assurance levels were adopted by UK, Canada, and USA government services.\n\nIn 2007 the Liberty Alliance helped to found the Project Concordia, an independent initiative for harmonization identity specifications. It was active through 2008.\n\nThe alliance wrote papers on business and policy aspects of identity management.. It hosted meetings in 2007 and 2008 to promote itself.\n\nManagement board members included AOL, British Telecom, Computer Associates (CA), Fidelity Investments, Intel, Internet Society (ISOC), Novell, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT), Oracle Corporation and Sun Microsystems.\n\n\n\nAs described above, Liberty contributed Identity Federation Framework (ID-FF) 1.2 to OASIS in November 2003. For the record, here is a complete list of contributed ID-FF 1.2 documents:\n\nOnly the archived PDF files are individually addressable on the Liberty Alliance web site. (The original contributed documents are lost.) To obtain copies of the remaining archived files, download both the Liberty ID-FF 1.2 archive and the Liberty 1.1 support archive.\n"}
{"id": "48870439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48870439", "title": "List of Allied ships lost to Italian surface vessels in the Mediterranean (1940–43)", "text": "List of Allied ships lost to Italian surface vessels in the Mediterranean (1940–43)\n\nThe following is a list of Allied ships sunk, wrecked or captured at sea by surface vessels of the Regia Marina during the battle of the Mediterranean. The list includes vessels lost to the combined action of surface warships and airpower.\n"}
{"id": "18180446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18180446", "title": "List of month-long observances", "text": "List of month-long observances\n\nThe following is a list of notable month-long observances, recurrent months that are used by various governments, groups and organizations to raise awareness of an issue, commemorate a group or event, or celebrate something.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n55. First Presidential Proclamation for National Caribbean American Heritage Month was June 6, 2006 by President George Bush. First City to Proclaim Caribbean Heritage Month Washington DC 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "15692755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15692755", "title": "Maggie Williams", "text": "Maggie Williams\n\nMargaret Ann Williams (born December 25, 1954) was director of the Institute of Politics at Harvard University and is a partner in Griffin Williams, a management-consulting firm. \n\nShe was the campaign manager for Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign. Following Clinton's win in the New Hampshire primary in January 2008, Williams was brought onto the Clinton campaign staff as a senior adviser. On February 10, 2008, she replaced Patti Solis Doyle as the campaign's manager.\n\nWilliams was born in Kansas City, Missouri. She attended high school at Notre Dame de Sion in Kansas City, Missouri. She earned her B.A. in Political Science from Trinity College (Washington D.C.) in 1977, and was awarded an honorary doctorate in 2009. Williams also received a masters from the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania in 1992.\n\nWilliams was an aide to Representative Morris K. Udall, Democrat of Arizona from 1977–78, Press Secretary for the Democratic National Committee in 1979, manager of the Press office of the D.N.C. convention in 1980, campaign press secretary for Representative Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey in 1982.\n\nShe was director of media relations for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in 1983, a member of the convention staff of the D.N.C. in 1984 and communications director for the Children's Defense Fund, 1984-1990.\n\nWhile at the Children's Defense Fund she met, and became friends with then First Lady of Arkansas Hillary Clinton. She served as Clinton's transition director in 1992 and as her chief of staff during her first term as First Lady of the United States (1993–1997), the first African American woman to hold that position and the first Chief of Staff to the First Lady who also served as an Assistant to the President. \n\nAs stated in Taylor Branch's The Clinton Tapes, in 1994, President Clinton turned to Williams \"to compile confidential suggestions\" on personnel shifts ... According to Branch, \"When I asked how unusual it was for the first lady's office to be involved, he replied there was no easy blueprint for reorganizing the organizers. Williams was shrewd, discreet, and efficient.\"\n\nIn a profile in Essence Magazine Ana Perez, who during George Bush's administration was the first Black person to serve as a press secretary to a First Lady said of Williams: \"I am in awe of her...I have so much respect for her because she has this absolutely calm center and because she is a good and decent person. She's a do-gooder in every sense of the word.\" She has been described as having \"very good judgment on issues and people\" by Leon Panetta.\n\nOn the night of the death of deputy White House counsel Vince Foster in 1993, a Secret Service agent claimed he saw Williams remove two handfuls of folders from his office, which she vehemently denied.\n\nAfter leaving the White House, Williams served as the President of Fenton Communications. In this position, she became the highest ranked black woman in an American top-50 public relations firm. Previously, Williams served as a communications consultant in Paris.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton asked Williams to be his chief of staff at the Clinton Foundation.\nIn June 2014, she was named Director of the Institute of Politics at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University.\n\nWilliams became the campaign manager for Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign after being brought on as a senior adviser following Clinton's win in the New Hampshire primary in January 2008. On February 10, 2008, she replaced Patti Solis Doyle as the campaign's manager. and infused Clinton's campaign \"with a sense of purpose\" according to staffers. \n\nIn their book, The Battle for America: The Story of an Extraordinary Election, Haynes Johnson and Dan Balz wrote that with Williams in charge the campaign was more collegial and operated with greater efficiency.\n\nIn addition to her consulting business, Williams is a director of the Scholastic Publishing Corporation, the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI). She is a trustee of the Rhode Island School of Design and a US Commissioner for the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). From 2000 to 2007, Williams also served as director at Delta Financial Corporation, a mortgage lender that filed for bankruptcy in December 2007. \n\nShe serves on the Advisory Boards of the Eli J. Segal Citizenship Program at Brandeis University and the Institute of Politics (IOP) at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8622345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8622345", "title": "MardiGrass", "text": "MardiGrass\n\nMardiGrass is a cannabis law reform rally and festival held annually in the town of Nimbin, in north east New South Wales, Australia.\n\nIn March 1993, after a decade of raids and arrests, and a particularly intensive recent period of random street searches, arrests and rough treatment, a spontaneous demonstration erupted, and marched to the police station, pelting it with eggs and toilet paper. Negative newspaper reports followed. Nimbin Hemp Embassy (formerly \"Nimbin Hemp\") members decided to hold a peaceful protest in a non-confrontational atmosphere, that ordinary people could comfortably attend, on 1 May 1993. That was the first MardiGrass. (The spelling is that officially used by the MardiGrass Organising Body) The MardiGrass Organising Body (MOB) was formed to manage the event and consists entirely of volunteers. The intention is to hold a MardiGrass every year until prohibition ends.\n\nIn March 1993 the Nimbin police station had already been laid siege. Undercover police officers had been discovered buying cannabis in the area. This enraged a small portion of the townsfolk to such an extent that they chased the police officers back to the police station and pelted them with eggs. Concerned about bad publicity some of the townsfolk decided to come up with a more peaceful form of protest that ordinary people could comfortably join. Bob Hopkins (a.k.a. The Plantem) was the man who came up with the idea of MardiGrass.\n\nOn 1 May 1993 people gathered by the local creek for the rally. They also had a good time with their colourful bright clothing coloured with dye of food colouring. Bob, dressed as a nun led the people while blowing on a tuba. There was only a small group at the start (along with a giant joint made of a large sheet and other assorted household goods).\n\nThe big joint acted as a giant magnet for the townsfolk. By the time they reached the police station they were, by most accounts, over a thousand strong.\n\nShortly after, backup arrived, but not before the media who began to broadcast images of the event to the country and world. The cops found themselves in the unenviable situation of not being able to act against the townsfolk. They were unable to use aggressive force against them on camera, and as such watched on as the protesters marched forward.\n\nIn the evening of this historic event, Bob Hopkins channelled the spirit of the Plantem for the first time and he and his friends,after adopting Winston Churhills V is for victory sign,vowed to hold MardiGrass annually until the war on cannabis was over.\n\nThe protest rally and parade is held on the first weekend in May, and is the core element of MardiGrass; the centre of a festival weekend containing events such as the Hemp Olympix, including Joint Rolling, Bong Throw and Yell and Growers Iron-person events; also including the Nimbin Cannabis Cup, Harvest Ball, Picker's Ball, live music and dance parties. The \"Protest Rally and Parade\" is held on the Sunday, gathers opposite the Police station and then marches away, through the village to Peace Park, accompanied by the traditional \"Big Joint\" and dancing Ganja Faeries. MardiGrass is a participant in the Global Marijuana March \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47246364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47246364", "title": "Miss Universe 2016", "text": "Miss Universe 2016\n\nMiss Universe 2016 was the 65th Miss Universe pageant, was held on 30 January 2017 at the Mall of Asia Arena, Pasay City, Metro Manila, Philippines. Pia Wurtzbach of the Philippines crowned Iris Mittenaere of France as her successor at the end of the event. This is the second time in the history of the competition that the pageant skipped the entire year, following the 2014 pageant which was held in January 2015. \n\nFrance's victory ended the country's 63-year title drought, the longest in Miss Universe history. Mittenaere was the first European Miss Universe to serve a full term in 26 years, the last being Norway's Mona Grudt who was Miss Universe 1990, and the first European to win the title outright since Oxana Fedorova who became Miss Universe 2002 before being dethroned four months later.\n\nThe agreement to host the pageant in the Philippines was signed on November 16, 2016. This agreement, made between the Miss Universe Organization, the Philippine Department of Tourism (DOT) and the LCS Group of Companies, was the result of negotiations that began about four months earlier.\nDiscussions began on July 18, 2016, when Miss Universe 2015 Pia Wurtzbach met with Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte. Although Duterte was open to the idea of having the pageant hosted by the Philippines, he did not want the government to pay the expense of doing so (but a government spokesperson later said that some \"services\" would be provided for the event). About two weeks after the meeting, the Department of Tourism announced that the Philippines would be the host. A spokesperson for the Department said that, according to Miss Universe Organization president Paula Shugart, the Philippines was the organization's prime choice for hosting the pageant, although other countries were being considered.\n\nDespite the statement made by the Department of Tourism, the final decision to hold the pageant in the Philippines had not yet been made and, over the next few months, the Miss Universe Organization had changed its mind several times on the matter. Initial reports did not disclose the reasons for the breakdowns in negotiations, but a later report linked the Organization's concerns with Duterte's controversial remarks regarding U.S. President Barack Obama, as well as his plans to separate ties between the Philippines and the United States. These statements were not received well by the William Morris Entertainment/International Marketing Group (WME), the owners of the Miss Universe franchise. Duterte's statement that he would be glad to kill as many drug addicts as Adolf Hitler killed Jews during the Holocaust led to WME executive Ziv Emanuel (brother of Rahm Emanuel) to cancel the talks. Ilocos Sur governor Chavit Singson, who was also chairman of the LCS Group, sent representatives, including some Jewish friends, to the United States to persuade Emanuel to maintain his interest in a Philippines-hosted event. Duterte's later apology for his Holocaust-related remark helped in the renegotiation. Also helpful was Singson's offer to add women-empowerment programs to the pageant.\n\nThe Miss Universe Organization's final decision came on November 3, 2016, when Wurtzbach announced via a video message that the Philippines would be the host. The partnership agreement was signed on November 16 and, on that same day, the pageant's official website and Facebook page were launched.\n\nIn September 2016, the Mall of Asia Arena in Pasay was announced to be the main coronation venue of the pageant according to the Philippine Tourism Secretary Wanda Corazon Teo. The Philippine Arena in Santa Maria and Bocaue, Bulacan was the other venue considered by the Department of Tourism as the main coronation venue of the pageant, but the Miss Universe Organization disapproved of the venue due to \"security reasons\".\n\nThe funds needed to stage the pageant in the country came entirely from private businesses. Among the reported sponsors were Philippine Airlines, the SM Group, Solar Entertainment, Filipino billionaire Henry Sy and Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada. The Okada Manila would serve as the residential venue for the Miss Universe 2016 candidates. The projected expense for the event was US$11 million.\n\nThe candidates were expected to arrive on January 13, 2017. The Philippine military were assigned by the Philippines national security council to serves as security escorts.\n\nA reality-documentary television program entitled \"Journey to the Crown: A Celebration of Beauty\" was shown on ETC on November 6, 2016 in the Philippines as part of marketing of the pageant.\n\nA kick-off party was hosted on December 9, 2016 at Conrad Manila, a hotel in Pasay, marking the beginning of the pageant. Eleven contestants from Asia Pacific were in attendance for the event. They were:\n\nAlongside with the main pageant, ancillary events were held which has no effect on the contestants' total pageant score. The contestants were scheduled to participate in fashion shows in Davao, Cebu, and Vigan. Each venue had a theme; Mindanao fabric for Davao, beachwear for Cebu, and \"terno\" for Vigan. The contestants partook in a different event in Bicol.\n\nOn December 13, 2016, some of the pageant's candidates had a photoshoot with whale sharks in Oslob, Cebu. This activity was criticized by Greenpeace Southeast Asia, Marine Wildlife Watch, and other wildlife conservationist groups in the Philippines who discourage human interaction with the whale sharks, as they are considered endangered species. The Department of Tourism (DOT) said that there were only five candidates present and the activity was an occular inspection. Following criticisms, the DOT is considering to do the whale watching activity for the final show in Donsol, Sorsogon instead.\n\nOn December 14, 2016, the DOT cancelled the fashion show originally scheduled on January 19, 2017 at the SMX Convention Center in Davao City to prevent further \"controversy\" following the claim of local-based designers led by the Davao Fashion and Design Council Foundation, Inc. (DFDCFI) that they have been \"brushed off\" by the pageant organizers. The group claimed that they were never consulted and questioned why they were asked to dress up local models instead of being in charge of pre-show cocktail of the main event which is tasked to non-Mindanaoan designer, Renee Salud. Following the cancellation announcement, the DFDCFI said that they respect the decision but urged the organizers that Davao City to remain as one of the places to be visited by the candidates. On December 22, 2016, it was announced that the fashion show will push through after Salud and the DFDCFI cleared their misunderstandings and decided to help each other.\n\nThe national costume show was done on January 27, 2017 which had no bearing on the preliminary scores.\n\nAt the Mall of Asia Arena, all 86 contestants competed in swimwear and evening gown in front of a panel of preliminary judges. The scores from the night's event along with an interview portion determine the Top 13 during the Miss Universe broadcast. The Preliminary Competition was hosted by Pia Wurtzbach and Filipino-British actor Derek Ramsay.\n\n\nThe pageant program was initially announced to start at 5 a.m. () but it was later announced that the program was to run from 8 a.m. until 11:00 a.m.\n\nSolar Entertainment, one of the pageant's partners, was tasked to provide broadcast coverage of the competition in the Philippines. In December 2016, TV5, GMA Network and ABS-CBN secured rights to air live coverage of the pageant.\nEarlier in November its was reported that \"all local networks\" including GMA Network and TV5 will broadcast the pageant upon the request of President Rodrigo Duterte.\n\nAdditionally, TV5 had exclusive rights to air the preliminary event as well as exclusive Philippine digital rights. TV5 posted behind the scenes content on their online TV5 studio\n\nAmerican presenter Steve Harvey has a five year contract with the Miss Universe Organization for hosting the Miss Universe pageant. Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte expressed hesitation on Harvey hosting the event due to Harvey announcing the wrong winner at the Miss Universe 2015 pageant. In response, Philippine Department of Tourism head, Secretary Wanda Teo proposed the idea of having a Filipino woman co-host the event to neutralize the president's displeasure. On November 3, 2016, Harvey was confirmed to return as host.\n\nAmerican model Ashley Graham served as the backstage host.\n\nAmerican entertainers Flo Rida and Boyz II Men were the musical performers at the final program of the pageant.\n\nThe twelve women who garnered the highest scores following the preliminary swimsuit and evening gown competition held on January 26 and the subsequent closed door interviews, were named as part of the Top 13. The 13th candidate, Chalita Suansane of Thailand, was determined through online voting results. After the swimsuit presentation from the 13 remaining candidates, nine candidates were selected with the highest garnered average score from the judges and the global online vote.\n\nThree were then eliminated and the Top 6 candidates proceeded to the question-and-answer portion, where they were asked questions regarding international or their country's affairs. The candidates of France, Colombia and Thailand used a language interpreter. The final three was then announced and all were asked the same question; They were asked regarding a failure over the course of their life and how they dealt with it. Miss France was announced as Miss Universe 2016.\n\nDuring the final program, the winner of the National Costume Show held on January 27, 2016 was announced. Miss Myanmar, Htet Htet Htun, was awarded the Best National Costume. Her costume, which weighed , featured the Shwedagon Pagoda and the Bagan temples, which she says represents the princess of figures of Myanmar traditional puppetry.\n\nAn after party event was held at the Okada Manila hotel. During this event, Jenny Kim of Korea was given the Miss Congeniality award while Lindita Idrizi of Albania was given the Miss Photogenic award. The awards were not announced during the final program due to lack of time.\n\n§ Voted into the Top 13 by viewers.\n\n86 contestants competed for the title of Miss Universe 2016: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1121047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1121047", "title": "Monsters of Rock", "text": "Monsters of Rock\n\nMonsters of Rock was an annual hard rock and heavy metal music festival held in Castle Donington, England from 1980 to 1996, taking place every year except 1989 and 1993. It later branched into other locations such as the Netherlands, Spain, Italy, Germany, France, Sweden, Argentina, Brazil, the United States and the former Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1980, promoter Paul Loasby, along with Maurice Jones, planned a one-day festival dedicated specifically for bands within the hard rock and heavy metal genre. Loasby was an established and successful promoter working that year on the Rainbow UK tour and penned the festival as the final show of the tour for the band to headline. Jones knew the owner of the Donington Park race track, Tom Wheatcroft, located next to the village of Castle Donington in Leicestershire, England, and the site was chosen to host the event.\n\nDonington Park was unknown as a major location but its location in the East Midlands next to the M1, A42 and A50 allowed for better transportation to the site from around the country. Additionally the site ground level sloped which allowed for a better viewing for the audience throughout the site.\n\nThe first Monsters of Rock line-up consisted of a mix of British and international bands and was a success with 35,000 heavy metal fans attending. Although only conceived as a one off event, it was mentioned on the day the idea that the festival will return the following year and the first edition birthed what would become a regular festival for the next 15 years, becoming synonymous as a Mecca for fans of the genre and further establishing the Midlands as the home of heavy metal.\n\nOver the years, the attendance continued to grow, reaching 107,000 in 1988, when two fans died during Guns N' Roses set. Initially the blame was thought to be the size of the crowd and a rush forward during the band's set but officially the cause is laid on the weather, causing muddy and wet conditions on the sloping ground. As a result, the festival did not take place in 1989, but returned the year after with a limitation to the crowd of 75,000.\n\nThe festival had been held in parallel in West Germany from 1983 to 1991. In 1984 and 1986 the festival branched into Sweden. In 1988, the festival occurred for the first time in France, Italy, Spain and The Netherlands. It was held as a one-time event in 1991 in Soviet Union, Poland, Belgium, Hungary. In 1994, the festival was exported overseas to Chile, Argentina and Brazil.\n\nIn 1993 the MONSTERS OF ROCK® radio show debuted in the United States with host Harlan Hendrickson. Guests on the show include everyone from AC/DC, KISS, Van Halen, Judas Priest, Motörhead, Cinderella, Ozzy Osbourne, Bon Jovi, Cheap Trick, Mötley Crüe, Ratt, Dio, Y&T, Guns N' Roses, Slayer and Poison.\n\nThe Monsters of Rock festival continued on as the premier hard rock and heavy metal event in Great Britain in the 1990s but started to fall upon hard times as heavy metal became less popular, with another cancellation in 1993 due to being unable to find a strong enough headliner. In 1995 the festival found itself in a similar situation until Metallica agreed to play with the condition of the band having control over the event and naming it \"Escape from the Studio\". In 1996 Ozzy Osbourne and KISS co-headlined the festival and although there were plans to extend the festival into a two-day event in 1997, the promoters once again found themselves in a struggle for headliners and the event was cancelled and discontinued.\n\nDonington Park remained event-less until 2001 when the Rock and Blues Festival and Stereophonics held events at the site. In 2002 the Ozzfest tour returned to the UK using Donington Park as their only British event and the following year Live Nation picked up the reins as Monsters of Rock's successor in the name of Download Festival. An outstanding success from the offset, the festival continues to this day having increased to a three-day event with five stages, though as of 2008 the event has been relegated outside of the track.\n\nIn 2006, the Monsters of Rock name was revived and held at the National Bowl in Milton Keynes, England, for a one off event headlined by Deep Purple and with Alice Cooper as a special guest.\n\nIn 2012 Harlan Hendrickson & Monsters of Rock Worldwide partnered with Larry Morand and Mike London to launch the inaugural Monsters Of Rock Cruise.\n\nTo date, the only band that have headlined the festival more than twice is AC/DC, with four occasions: 1981, 1984, 1991 and 2010 (Download Festival).\n\n16 August 1980\n\n22 August 1981\n\n\n21 August 1982\n\n\n20 August 1983\n\n18 August 1984\n\n17 August 1985\n\n16 August 1986\n\n\n22 August 1987\n\n\n20 August 1988\n\n18 August 1990\n\nThe entire 1990 festival was simultaneously broadcast live on BBC Radio 1, which had previously recorded many festivals for later broadcast.\n\n\n17 August 1991<br>\n22 August 1992 (this was also broadcast live on Radio 1)\n\n\n4 June 1994 (another festival broadcast live; highlights were transmitted in 1995 and 1996)\n\nThis was the first year that two stages were used. Readers of \"Kerrang!\" magazine were invited to vote on bands to appear at the festival, and Extreme easily won the right to appear second on the bill.\n\nMain stage:\n\nSecond Stage:\n26 August 1995\n\n1995 was not officially billed as 'Monsters Of Rock' but as 'Escape from the Studio' due to Metallica's decision to headline while recording the Load album.\n\n17 August 1996. Ozzy Osbourne and Kiss co-headlined with Kiss being the final band on stage.\n\nMain stage:\n\nKerrang! Stage:\n3 June 2006 – Milton Keynes Bowl\n\nGermany: Dortmund, Westfalenhallen – 2 September 1983 Kaiserslautern, Waldstadion am Erbsenberg – 3 September 1983\nNürnberg, Zeppelinfeld – 4 September 1983\n\nSweden: Stockholm, Råsunda Stadium – 25 August 1984\n\nGermany: Karlsruhe, Wildparkstadion – 1 September 1984\nGermany: Nuremberg, Städtisches Stadion – 2 September 1984\n\nSweden Stockholm, Råsunda Stadium – 23 August 1986\n\nGermany: Nuremberg, Zeppelinfeld – 30 August 1986\nGermany: Mannheim, Maimarktgelände – 31 August 1986\n\nItaly: Reggio Emilia, Aeroporto di Reggio Emilia – 26 August 1987\n\nGermany: Nuremberg, Messegelände – 29 August 1987\nGermany: Pforzheim, Stadion im Brötzinger Tal – 30 August 1987\n\nUSA: 23 May – 30 July\n\nGermany: Schweinfurt, Mainwiesen Gelände – 27 August 1988\nGermany: Bochum, Ruhrland Stadion – 28 August 1988\n\nThe Netherlands: Tilburg, Willem II Stadion – 4 September 1988\n\nItaly: Modena, Festa de l'Unità – 10 September 1988\n\nSpain: Pamplona, Plaza de Toros – 17 September 1988\nSpain: Madrid, Casa de Campo – 18 September 1988\nSpain: Barcelona, Plaza de Toros – 22 September 1988\n\nFrance: Paris, Palais Omnisports de Paris-Bercy – 24 & 25 September 1988\n\nSweden: Stockholm, Stockholm Globe Arena – 21 August 1990\n\nGermany: Berlin, Waldbühne – 23 August 1990\n\nGermany: Dortmund, Westfalenhallen – 25 August 1990\n\nThe Netherlands: Utrecht, Stadion Galgenwaard – 26 August 1990\n\nItaly: Bologna, Arena Parco Nord – 30 August 1990\n\nGermany: Mannheim, Maimarktgelände – 1 September 1990\n\nNote: This particular show was promoted as \"Super Rock 1990\".\n\nFrance: Paris, Hippodrome de Vincennes – 3 September 1990\nNote: Face to Face was a French band related to Trust. Faith No More was not on the ticket list but was present to the show.\n\nDenmark: Copenhagen, Gentofte Stadion – 10 August 1991\n\nPoland: Chorzów, Śląski Stadion – 13 August 1991\n\nHungary: Budapest, Népstadion – 22 August 1991\n\nGermany: München, Galopprennbahn München Riem, 24 August 1991\n\nBelgium:Hasselt, Belgium, Domein Kiewit – 30 August 1991\n\nThe Netherlands: Nijmegen, Goffert Stadion – 1 September 1991\n\nGermany: Mainz, Finthen Army Airfield – 7 September 1991\n\nAustria: Graz, Liebenauer Stadion – 11 September 1991\n\nItaly: Modena, Festa dell'Unità – 14 September 1991\n\nSpain: Barcelona, Estadio Olímpico Lluís Companys – 25 September 1991\n\nSoviet Union: Moscow, Tushino Airfield – 28 September 1991\nMetallica's performances of \"Harvester of Sorrow\" and \"Creeping Death\" from this show were used as B-sides for the \"Sad but True\" single in different regional editions. Pantera's \"Cowboys from Hell\" performance is featured as a playable song in the games Guitar Hero Smash Hits and Rock Band 4.\n\nItaly: Reggio Emilia, Arena Festa Nazionale Dell'Unita' – 12 September 1992\n\nThe bands Danzig and Gun both canceled their appearances at the festival. They are featured on the poster for the event.\n\nSpain: Barcelona, Plaza de Toros – 14 September 1992\nSpain: San Sebastián, Velódromo de Anoeta – 17 September 1992\nSpain: Madrid, Las Arenas Plaza de Toros – 18 September 1992\nSpain: Madrid, Municipal Tent – 19 September 1992\n\n\nBrazil: São Paulo, Estádio do Pacaembu – 27 August 1994\n\nChile: Santiago, Estación Mapocho – 1 September 1994\n\nArgentina: Buenos Aires, River Plate Stadium – 3 September 1994\n\nBrazil: São Paulo, Estádio do Pacaembu – September 1995\n\n2nd\nChile: Santiago, Teatro Caupolican – September 1995\n\n8th\n\n9th\nArgentina: Buenos Aires, Ferro Carril Oeste Stadium – September 1995\n\n9th\n\n10th\nBrazil: São Paulo, Estádio do Pacaembu – 24 August 1996\n\nThis marks the last performance of the original lineup of Skid Row before parting with singer Sebastian Bach and drummer Rob Affuso.\n\n\nArgentina: Buenos Aires, Ferro Carril Oeste Stadium – 13 December 1997\n\nBrazil:São Paulo, Ibirapuera – 26 September 1998\n\nChile: Santiago, Velódromo Estadio Nacional – 10 September 1998\n\nArgentina: Buenos Aires, Vélez Sársfield Stadium – 12 December 1998\n\nArgentina: Buenos Aires, River Plate Stadium – 14 May 1999\n\nItaly: Como, Stadio Sinigaglia – 13 July 2004\n\nArgentina: Buenos Aires, Ferro Carril Oeste Stadium – 11 September 2005\n\nChile: Santiago, Pista Atlética Estadio Nacional – 13 September 2005\n\nSpain: Zaragoza, Feria de Zaragoza – 18 June 2006\n\nSpain: Zaragoza, Feria de Zaragoza – June 2007\n\n22nd\n\n23rd\nChile: Santiago, Pista Atlética Estadio Nacional – 1 April 2008\n\nSpain: Zaragoza, Feria de Zaragoza – July 2008\n\n11th\n\n12th (Cancelled due to rain)\nBrazil: São Paulo, Anhembi Convention Center – October 2013\n\n19th\n20th\nBrazil: São Paulo, Anhembi Convention Center – April 2015\n\n25th\n26th\n\nBrazil: Curitiba, Pedreira Paulo Leminski – 28 April 2015\n\n\nBrazil: Porto Alegre, Estádio Passo d'Areia – 30 April 2015\n\n\nArgentina: Buenos Aires, Ciudad del Rock – 2 May 2015\n\n\nGermany: Sankt Goarshausen, Loreley Freilichtbühne - June 17, 2016\n\n\nSaxon wrote the song \"And the Bands Played On\" about their appearance at the 1980 festival.\n\nThe 1986 appearance by Bad News was featured in the TV mockumentary \"More Bad News\".\n\nIn 1993, the MONSTERS OF ROCK radio show debuts. Harlan Hendrickson, host and creator of the Monsters of Rock, broadcasts from the legendary rock radio station WRIF in Detroit. The Monsters of Rock is currently syndicated nationally/internationally through United Stations Radio Networks where it currently airs in over 60 markets in the United States alone. The program currently holds the number-one or number-two slots among males 25-54 on the majority of stations that carry it. Guests on the show have included of AC/DC, KISS, Van Halen, Motörhead, Cinderella, Ozzy Osbourne, Bon Jovi, Cheap Trick, Mötley Crüe, Ratt, Slayer and Poison.\n\nIn 1994 Beavis and Butt-head episode \"Take A Number\", Beavis and Butt-head attempt to get tickets to \"Creatures of Rock\" which is a parody of \"Monsters of Rock\"\n\nIn the 2005 Half Man Half Biscuit song \"Mate of the Bloke\" on their album \"Achtung Bono, the protagonist sings of legal action taken against him by More O'Ferrall for spraying the legend \"in church hall if wet\" onto a billboard for \"Monsters of Rock\".\n\nIn 2012 Harlan Hendrickson teamed up with Larry Morand and Mike London to launch the \"Monsters Of Rock Cruise\" which is a multi day music cruise celebrating the Castle Donnington festival. Artists such as Saxon, UFO, Cinderella, Tesla, The Quireboys and others from the original festival have been featured on the cruise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8247125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8247125", "title": "Nova Scotia general election, 1984", "text": "Nova Scotia general election, 1984\n\nThe 31st Nova Scotia general election was held on November 6, 1984 to elect members of the 54th House of Assembly of the Province of Nova Scotia, Canada. It was won by the Progressive Conservative party.\n\n"}
{"id": "18476638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18476638", "title": "Phish festivals", "text": "Phish festivals\n\nStarting in 1996, American jam band Phish has hosted a series of festivals - ten in total, with attendance ranging from 35,000 to 85,000. They are typically the only band to perform at the festivals, although the 1997 Lemonwheel festival and 1999 Camp Oswego festival both featured a second stage for supporting acts.\n\n\"The Clifford Ball\" was the first weekend-long festival hosted by Phish throughout their career. The event took place on August 16 and 17, 1996, on the site of a former Air Force base in Plattsburgh, New York, about one hour west from Phish's home base of Burlington, Vermont. The event was named after Clifford Ball, a man who held events for aviators such as Amelia Earhart. \"The Clifford Ball\" was a proposed name for the 1990s traveling festival that ultimately was named H.O.R.D.E..\n\nThe name Clifford Ball had been known to the band for some five years before \"The Clifford Ball\" took place. According to Phish Manager, John Paluska, \"The band was walking through the airport in Pittsburgh one day, and they came upon a small, little plaque of a guy named Clifford Ball... it said 'Clifford Ball: a beacon of light in the world of flight.' ...they just thought the [expression] was the funniest idea for a show...\"\n\nThe event combined overhead flights by bombers, fighters, gliders, and various other aerial vehicles with carnival rides, jugglers, and men on stilts. Three gigantic video screens and four sound towers were erected to amplify the band. Phish, the marquee band who headlined the event, were joined by a classical violin quartet, a blues quartet, a choral quintet, and guitar soloists. The \"Clifford Ball Orchestra\" performed an afternoon set of pieces by Debussy, Ravel, and Stravinsky. Phish performed seven sets of music over the two nights, including a late night set on a flatbed truck that rolled through the parking lot in the wee hours of the morning.\n\n70,000 people attended, making the event Phish's largest concert up to that point and the largest rock concert in the United States in that year. The audience was four times the size of surrounding city of Plattsburgh, making Plattsburgh the ninth most-populous city in New York that weekend, and adding $20 million into the local economy. Despite the size of the concert, it received very little coverage from the mainstream media. MTV aired a documentary of the experience, using footage from Phish's production company, Dionysian Productions. Phish released a seven-DVD box set on March 3, 2009, chronicling the band's seven sets and including bonus documentary footage.\n\nSetlists: Day 1 Day 2\n\n\"The Great Went\" was the sequel to \"The Clifford Ball\", taking place on August 16 and 17, 1997, close to the Canada–US border at the Loring Air Force Base in Limestone, Maine. The event was named after a quote from the movie \"\".\n\nThe world's largest fire truck hosed down thousands of fans as they arrived Saturday morning, and on Sunday morning, approximately 1,100 people posed nude as part of a fifty-state tour by photographer Spencer Tunick. Throughout the weekend, the members of the audience each painted their own individual piece of art. The resultant pieces of fan artwork were attached to one another to create a tower that was eventually several stories high. The band also created their own piece of art during a jam on the final night. Later that evening, the band passed their artwork through the audience. To create a connection between audience and band, the band's artwork was attached to the fan artwork. As seen in \"Bittersweet Motel\", a giant matchstick was lit, burning the tower to the ground.\n\nPhish was the only band that played the main stage, performing seven sets of music over two nights, including a late night disco set at 2:30 AM featuring all four members on keyboards. The Bangor Symphony Orchestra performed Debussy and Stravinsky during the afternoon of the second day, accompanied by a glider pilot who soared above the audience. \n\n75,000 people attended, making the event Phish's largest concert up to that point, and the top-grossing rock concert in the United States in the summer of 1997. Fans camped out onsite in tents, making Limestone the largest city in Maine over the weekend.\n\n\"Lemonwheel\" was the third festival hosted by the band, taking place on August 15 and 16, 1998, again at Loring Air Force Base in Limestone, Maine. 60,000 people attended creating a community of fans that, again, made Limestone one of the largest cities in Maine over the weekend.\n\nPhish was the only band to play the main stage, performing seven sets of music over two nights. Several other bands, including Keller Williams and Manic Mule, played in the sidestage. The concert grounds, shaped like a large figure 8, contained several beer gardens, a Ferris wheel, an elephant, jugglers, and stiltsmen. At the festival, the audience made candles throughout the weekend. Saturday night's fourth set included an hour-long ambient jam on a dark stage covered in hundreds of homemade candles. On Sunday, the night ended with the band lighting fuses onstage, burning a path through the stage and activating a large elephant that sprayed a gusher of water into the air from its trunk, and then slowly made its way through the audience to the tune of \"Baby Elephant Walk\"\n\n\"Camp Oswego\" was a two-night run hosted by the jamband Phish. The event took place on July 17 and 18, 1999, at the Oswego County Airport in Volney, New York, a small rural upstate town. 65,000 people attended. This event, though part of 1999's normal summer tour, is officially considered and was promoted as the band's fourth festival, despite the previously announced festival in Big Cypress, Florida on December 30–31, 1999 and January 1, 2000.\n\nPhish was the only headlining band at the event, performing five sets of music over two nights. Second stage bands included the Del McCoury Band, The Slip and Ozomatli, among others. Fans camped out onsite in tents, creating a community of fans that became one of the largest cities in New York over the weekend.\n\nBand and audience attempted to break the world record for the largest number of people doing the same dance at one time during the song \"Meatstick,\" but the record was not broken (representatives from the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" were on hand).\n\nThe following weekend, across the state, Woodstock 1999 was making new headlines as a few hundred people, out of the 200,000 people in attendance, rioted and burned the concert grounds. A rumor suggested that New York Governor George Pataki had made mention of the peacefulness of the Phish show as compared to the debacle at Woodstock, but no source has emerged for the oft-repeated quote, and it is now considered to be apocryphal.\n\n\"Big Cypress\" was the fifth and largest of eleven weekend-long festivals hosted by the rock band Phish. The event took place on the eve of the millennium – December 30 and 31, 1999, at the Big Cypress Indian Reservation near the Big Cypress National Preserve in southern Florida. 85,000 people attended, making it the largest Millennium Eve concert on earth that night, surpassing shows by Sting, Barbra Streisand, Aerosmith, Billy Joel, Eric Clapton, Rod Stewart, The Eagles, Eminem, Jimmy Buffett, Kiss, Metallica, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Elton John.\n\nIn a 2000 cover story for \"Entertainment Weekly\", three of the four Phish members declared Big Cypress to be the greatest Phish concert ever. It was also voted as the most popular Phish show ever by fans in the final volume of \"The Pharmer's Almanac\". It was also the longest Phish concert ever, culminating in a seven-and-a-half-hour second set from midnight on New Year's Eve to sunrise New Year's Day. Phish was the only band at the event, performing five sets of music (nearly sixteen hours) over two nights. As fans left the concert area at sunrise, The Beatles' \"Here Comes the Sun\" played over the PA speakers.\n\nPeter Jennings reported on the huge audience in an episode of \"ABC World News Tonight\". The band's performance of \"Heavy Things\" was broadcast during ABC's millennium coverage. Following the song, at the band's request, fans chanted the word \"cheesecake\" instead of cheering to confuse viewers at home (although in the end, the broadcast cut away before the gag could play out). The ABC broadcast was also shown to billions around the world as part of \"2000 Today\". At the beginning of the band's seven-and-a-half-hour second set, guitarist Trey Anastasio mentioned that the band had portable toilets onstage so they could use the restroom during the marathon set, and a team of security guards lined the stage to prevent band members from \"wimping out\" and trying to leave the stage. In a later interview with Charlie Rose, Anastasio stated that this was the peak of Phish's career.\n\n\"It\" was the sixth festival hosted by the rock band Phish. The event took place on August 2 and 3, 2003, at the Loring Air Force Base in Limestone, Maine, just miles from the Canada–U.S. border. 60,000 people attended, resulting in one of the largest Phish concerts ever. This was also their most-played festival venue (see also the Great Went and Lemonwheel). PBS was on hand to make a documentary of the experience.\n\nPhish was the only band at the event, performing seven sets of music over two nights, including a late night ambient set on top of the air traffic control tower at 2:30 AM after the first night's concert. Fans camped onsite in tents, creating a community of Phans that became one of the largest cities in Maine over the weekend.\n\n\"Coventry\" was the seventh weekend-long festival hosted by the rock band Phish, and was announced to be the final performances ever, by the band. The event took place from August 13–15, 2004, at a farm in the small town of Coventry, Vermont. An estimated 65,000-68,000 attended.\n\nPhish was the only band at the event, performing six sets of music over two nights that were the band's final live performances, until their 2009 reunion. Fans camped on site in tents, creating a community that became the largest city in Vermont over the weekend.\n\n110,000 people were expected to attend. It was simulcast to thousands more in movie theaters across the United States. The event was also simulcast on XM Satellite Radio. Unfortunately, a week of rain had flooded the concert field to the point where people were turned away, causing gridlock on the highway and roads leading to the site. Rumors circulated that the stage was sinking. The band had made use of a local radio station turning it into \"The Bunny\" radio with live reports. These reports requested patience from concert goers. However, when Phish Bassist Mike Gordon came on the radio, he announced that the field and venue were in a state of disaster and that no more vehicles would be allowed into the venue. Rumor spread up and down the traffic lines that Phish would play another concert, since less than 20,000 fans had made it into the venue.\n\nInstead of turning away and despite warnings from the National Guard, tens of thousands parked their cars on highway medians, in breakdown lanes, and on the sides of roads. Then they hiked in to the concert venue, some walking as far as 30 miles to the venue . Local residents stepped in and began shuttling fans in and out of the site and to their vehicles. Despite efforts by attendees, trash accumulated from fans stuck along the road. The bill for the subsequent cleanup was sent from the State of Vermont to the Phish organization who picked up the bill in its entirety.\n\nThe concert included some songs written at Coventry to glorify members of the team (Bruno and Dicky Scotland). The band gave away their trampolines during \"You Enjoy Myself\". They broke down crying onstage several times, most notably when Page McConnell choked up during the ballad \"Wading in the Velvet Sea.\" Unable to continue singing, he turned the microphone to the audience, who took over in chorus.\n\nOn June 26, 2009, the band announced a \"save the date\" for a three-day festival on October 30 - November 1. Phish.com contained an animated map of the United States, and individual states were slowly removed from the map, leaving California. Confirming several rumors, the band announced that \"Festival 8\" would take place at the Empire Polo Fields in Indio, California. The band played eight sets over the three nights, including a musical costume on Halloween, The Rolling Stones' \"Exile On Main Street\" and an all acoustic set \"at the crack of noon\" the following day. Before the acoustic set, the crowd was served free coffee and figure-8-shaped donuts. The festival was filmed in HD 3D and portions of the festival were released in movie theaters across the United States as \"Phish 3D.\" Members of the band Sharon Jones & The Dap-Kings joined the band on Halloween night to perform a number of songs.\n\nAttendance figures for Festival 8 were estimated at 40,000 people.\n\nSuper Ball IX took place at the Watkins Glen International in Watkins Glen, New York on July 1–3, 2011. It was the first concert to take place at Watkins Glen International since Summer Jam at Watkins Glen in 1973. Seven official sets were played throughout the weekend on the festival's main stage. In addition to the official sets, one additional set featuring ambient, avant-garde music similar to the IT Festival Tower Jam was performed. The set was played late Saturday evening from a partially hidden stage contained in a self-storage building that had been constructed as a piece of the festival's various art installations.\n\nAttendance figures for the festival were estimated at 30,000 people. Local officials were pleased at how smoothly the festival went and deemed the event a success.\n\nOn March 18, 2015, Phish announced their tenth festival named Magnaball. The festival was once again held at Watkins Glen International in Watkins Glen, NY, and took place August 21–23, 2015. Seven official sets of music were played over three nights. An additional set was played late Saturday night behind a large drive-in movie screen installed on the back of the race track's bleachers. This set featured ambient music and projections on the screen with live videos of the band superimposed.\n\nThe festival sold out, with attendance figures estimated at over 40,000 people. A live video stream of all three nights was offered for purchase on Livephish.com.\n\nOn February 26, 2018, Phish announced their eleventh festival named Curveball. The festival was supposed to be held at Watkins Glen International in Watkins Glen, New York, and take place August 17-19, 2018. However, the festival was canceled on August 16 by the direct order of the New York State Department of Health. \n\nTorrential downpours and flooding throughout the Finger Lakes region of upstate New York led the health department to cancel the festival in order to protect the health and safety of concert goers. A mandatory requirement to boil all water was put in place during the week before and on Thursday, August 16, the water was still deemed too unsafe to drink.\n\nAs a result of the cancelation, Curveball ticketholders were given both a full refund and free livestreams of all three nights of Phish's annual run at Dick's Sporting Goods Park in Commerce City, Colorado, which was held two weeks later.\n\n"}
{"id": "34998622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34998622", "title": "R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex parte Pinochet", "text": "R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex parte Pinochet\n\nR (Pinochet Ugarte) v Bow St Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate [2000] 1 AC 61, 119 and 147 is a set of three UK constitutional law judgments by the House of Lords, on whether former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet could claim state immunity from torture allegations made by a Spanish court and therefore evade extradition to Spain. It affected international criminal law and human rights law.\n\nThe first judgment enabled Pinochet to be deported. But this was controversially set aside in the second judgment, \"R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex parte Pinochet Ugarte (No 2)\" (\"Pinochet II\") because Lord Hoffmann, as a director of Amnesty International, was accepted to have had the possibility of bias. This resulted in a third case \"R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, Ex Parte Pinochet Ugarte (No 3)\" (\"Pinochet III\"), which confirmed that Pinochet was not entitled to state immunity but that acts committed outside of British territories could only be prosecuted under national law if committed after the passing of section 134 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988.\n\nPinochet was accused by a Spanish judge of torture, a crime under international law which can be prosecuted in any country under the doctrine of universal jurisdiction. The Spanish judge faxed an INTERPOL arrest warrant to London and Pinochet was arrested later that evening. Pinochet's lawyers argued that as Pinochet was head of state at the time of the alleged crimes he was immune from the jurisdiction of British courts. The Divisional Court ruled Pinochet had state immunity.\n\nBy a 3–2 majority, Lord Nicholls, Lord Hoffmann and Lord Steyn the House of Lords ruled that Pinochet did not have state immunity. \n\nA key passage of the judgment reads:\n\nLord Slynn and Lord Lloyd dissented.\n\n\"R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex parte Pinochet Ugarte (No 2)\" was an English legal case which involved the unprecedented setting aside of a House of Lords judgment based upon the possibility of bias. Lord Hoffmann's failure to declare links to Amnesty International meant that a previous House of Lords judgment on the immunity of former Chilean dictator General Augusto Pinochet had to be set aside.\n\n\"R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, Ex Parte Pinochet Ugarte (No 3)\" was a House of Lords judgment on the state immunity of Chilean President Augusto Pinochet. The judgment was necessary after the House of Lords ruling \"R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, Ex Parte Pinochet Ugarte\" was set aside when one of the judges in the case failed to disclose links to a human rights organization.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14105815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14105815", "title": "Red Bull Music Academy", "text": "Red Bull Music Academy\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy (RBMA) is a world-traveling series of music workshops and festivals, founded in 1998 by Red Bull. The main five-week event is held in a different city each year. The public portion of its program is a festival of concerts, art installations, club nights and lectures by influential figures in contemporary music. The other part of the program is by invitation only, held in a building which has been custom-fitted with a large recording studio, a lecture hall, a radio booth and between eight and twelve bedroom-sized studios. There, 60 up and coming producers, singers, sound artists, DJs and musicians from around the world learn from and collaborate with top industry professionals.\n\nYear-round, the Red Bull Music Academy maintains an online magazine, radio station (Red Bull Radio) and lecture video archive. The Academy hosts additional music workshops and club nights and curates stages at festivals in around 60 countries worldwide.\n\nThe Academy was initiated in 1998 in Berlin and has taken place annually in subsequent years in Toronto, London, São Paulo, Seattle, Cape Town, Rome, London, Melbourne, New York, Madrid, Barcelona,Tokyo, Paris, Montréal and Dublin. While the first few editions saw a greater emphasis on DJ culture, the program and recording facilities now accommodate all genres and aspects of the musical spectrum.\n\nProspective applicants to the Academy must prepare a demo CD of their work, be it original productions, songs or a DJ set, along with a completed questionnaire, and mail it to a Red Bull Music Academy office in Cologne, Germany. From there, each application is taken into consideration, with no quota on country or musical genre. From these applications, 60 are selected and broken down into two groups of 30. Each group of 30 is flown in to the location of the respective year's event for one of two fortnightly \"terms\". In 2012, the Academy received over 4000 applications to take part in the 2013 New York City edition.\n\nFor two weeks, the participants have the opportunity work in up to twelve studios specially designed for every edition of the Red Bull Music Academy. There, they have access to a range of the latest gear as well as analog equipment for music production and performance. There are no deadlines or set quotas, and Red Bull does not own the music produced in the building. These collaborative sessions are in part facilitated by the Academy’s \"Studio Team\", all experienced music producers in various fields. Twice daily, participants attend lectures by guest speakers who range from composers, producers, sound engineers and technological pioneers, to rappers and industry professionals. Lecture attendance is the only compulsory part of the program.\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy does not seek to select or create \"stars\", instead bringing together music makers with a wide range of talents, skill levels and cultural backgrounds. Notable former participants include Aloe Blacc, Branko of Buraka Som Sistema, Bahrainian oud player Hasan Hujairi, Juan Son, Natalia Lafourcade, Nina Kraviz, David Eriksson of Teenage Engineering, Blackcoffee, Flying Lotus, Salva and Andreya Triana.\n\nThe Academy also publishes a yearly double-CD compilation of music produced at the respective last edition entitled 'Various Assets – Not For Sale'. Since 2004, those compilations have featured original music from more than 300 artists, including Dorian Concept, Flying Lotus, Lusine, Theo Parrish, Aloe Blacc, Mark Pritchard, XXXchange, Om’Mas Keith of Sa-Ra, Illuminated faces, Tony Allen, Mr Hudson, Dennis Coffey, Hudson Mohawke, DJ Zinc, Wally Badarou, Benga, Phonte, Jake One, Steve Spacek of Spacek, and Natalia Lafourcade.\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy hosts additional workshops and three-day Base Camp sessions in more than 60 countries every year. These events resemble the actual Academy in consisting of music lectures, hands-on production workshops, studio sessions, art exhibitions, and night time activities such as concerts and club events. There is a strong focus on local topics as well as an international perspective.\n\nAlso, the Red Bull Music Academy has partnered with some of the most prominent music festivals, such as Sónar, Mutek, Movement: Detroit's Electronic Music Festival, Melt!, Notting Hill Carnival, Oxegen, Meltdown, Monegros Desert Festival, Splendour In The Grass, Bestival and the Winter Music Conference. The Academy curates stages at these festivals, and/or hosts workshops or one-off concerts in tandem with the festivals.\n\nIn 2005, the Red Bull Music Academy launched the Internet radio station Red Bull Radio that broadcasts interviews, live recordings and DJ mixes from more than 50 countries, via a 24/7 live stream and on-demand. RBMA Radio enjoys an average of 600,000 listeners online per month and is syndicated to terrestrial radio stations in over 30 countries. RBMA Radio’s mobile app for iOS, Android, WindowsPhone, and Symbian has been downloaded more than 500,000 times.\n\nAs a function of Red Bull Music Academy's efforts to create awareness for the Academy and promote its artists, Academy alumni also have further support, bookings and promotion through Red Bull Music Academy channels after the sessions are over. Many tours, local events and major festival bookings are pulled from the roster of past Red Bull Music Academy participants.\n\nThe Red Bull Music Academy was co-founded by Many Ameri, Christopher Romberg and Torsten Schmidt, of the consultancy company Yadastar (Christopher Romberg left the company in 2011). In 1997, beverage manufacturer Red Bull approached Yadastar about implementing some method of fostering discourse about underground dance culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "21092829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21092829", "title": "Serious Games Showcase and Challenge", "text": "Serious Games Showcase and Challenge\n\nThe Serious Games Showcase and Challenge is a competition and a showcase event that was created to encourage video game developers to create products that are useful for non-entertainment purposes. The annual event made its first appearance as an exhibit space at the Interservice/Industry Training, Simulation, and Education Conference (I/ITSEC) in 2006. The event accepts games from universities, businesses, and government organizations as entries in competition for awards prizes.\n\nEach year the event awards a Best Academic, Small Business, Large Business, and Government Game. Attendees at the conference can also vote on the People's Choice Award.\n\nFor the purpose of the Challenge, entries will be considered a game if they involve an assigned challenge and employ some form of positive and/or negative reward system.\n\nEntries will be considered a serious game if they use these gaming attributes to overcome a designated problem or deficiency, and provide appropriate feedback to the user about their efforts. Entered games must target users at the high school level, at a minimum.\n\nFinalists will be selected by a panel of leaders in the gaming, industry and academic fields, and will be invited to showcase their serious game at I/ITSEC, where attendees will view and vote on each of the finalists. Awards will be presented to the top finishers in each category.\n\nThe Challenge is open to a wide range of contestants. Potential categories include student, individual (indie game developer) / government and business. PC game entries (or compiled for PC execution) will be accepted from virtually any application areas including \"mods\", mobile, virtual worlds and original development. Gaming content can be focused on any genre such as business, education or government.\n\nAll entries will be judged by representatives in leading gaming, academic and industry companies in three primary areas, solution to a stated problem, technical quality and playability.\nEntries should clearly define the problem or need that is being addressed, as well as the gaming or game technology solution involved. Each entry must be not only technologically sound in its development, delivery and user interface, but also engaging, enjoyable, and easy to use, providing a challenging and rewarding experience to the user.\n\nInnovative approaches to any of the entered solutions are specifically encouraged and rewarded in the scoring.\n\n\nAbout the Showcase with links to past winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "29151605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29151605", "title": "Teatro Comunale Ponchielli", "text": "Teatro Comunale Ponchielli\n\nThe Teatro Comunale Ponchielli, as it has been known since 1986, is an opera house located in Cremona, Italy. For more than 250 years it has been that city's primary venue for opera and other theatrical presentations. \n\nThe original theatre, built in 1747, was named the Teatro Nazari, but it was renamed as the Teatro della Società in 1785. It was sometimes referred to as the Nobile Associazione. After the original theatre burned down in 1806, construction began on the present theatre soon after. The current theatre was designed by Luigi Canonica and it opened in 1808 under the name the Teatro della Concordia. Its name was changed again to the Teatro Ponchielli in 1907 after the famous native of Cremona, Amilcare Ponchielli. \n\nIn 1986 the theatre was purchased by the city of Cremona which renamed it once again as it is known today. The opening performance took place on 4 October and featured performances on the city-owned Stradivarius \"Il Cremonese\" and Guarneri \"del Gesu\" violins of 1715 and 1734 respectively.\n\nWith its original horseshoe-shaped auditorium, the theatre was remodeled in 1989 to create three box tiers and two galleries with a total of 1,249 seats.\n\n\nLynn, Karyl Charna, \"Italian Opera Houses & Festivals\", Lanham, MD: Scarecrow Press, 2005 \n\n"}
{"id": "46344668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46344668", "title": "The Button (Reddit)", "text": "The Button (Reddit)\n\nThe Button was an online meta-game and social experiment that featured an online button and 60 second countdown timer that would reset each time the button was pressed. The experiment was hosted on the social networking website Reddit beginning on 1 April 2015 (April Fools' Day) and was active until 5 June 2015. The game was started by a Reddit administrator.\n\nThe Button garnered enthusiasm from Reddit users worldwide, attracting clicks from over one million unique user accounts. Various websites, browser extensions, and mobile applications were created for tracking the live statistics of the Button and enabling users to visit the Button when the timer dropped below a certain threshold.\n\nThe Button's countdown timer reached zero several times due to technical issues, but was reset when button press attempts were still being made. On 5 June 2015, the countdown timer reached zero with no button press attempts, ending the experiment. \n\nThe specific Reddit community (subreddit) for the Button had the standard Reddit appearance but with a molly-guarded button next to a 60-second countdown timer at the top of the page. When the button was clicked, the countdown would reset. The button could only be pressed once by each unique Reddit account created before the event started on 1 April. There was also a cumulative count of all unique users who had clicked the button since its launch. The Button was a light blue color.\n\nAll users received a small dot called a \"flair\" next to their username. Users who had not pressed the button had a grey dot, and users who had pressed it had a dot colored based on the state of the timer when the button was pressed. When hovering the cursor over this colored dot, the time in seconds on the counter when the user clicked the button would be displayed. On the subreddit, users' times and the subsequent flair colors became status symbols.\nThe button was introduced on 1 April 2015 in a post to the official Reddit blog.\n\nOn 5 June 2015, at 21:49:53 UTC, a person with Reddit username \"BigGoron\" became the last user to press the button (dubbed \"The Pressiah\" by the community). Sixty seconds later, the countdown timer reached zero and ended 2 months and 4 days after it had begun. The button was deactivated, and overlaid with the text \"the experiment is over\". Six minutes later, Reddit administrator and creator of the button \"powerlanguage\" announced the forum would be archived within ten minutes.\n\nThe experiment ended with 1,008,316 logged button clicks.\n\nThe Button experienced technical issues which caused it to reach zero despite users pressing it in time. This occurred multiple times and was attributed to database errors by reddit's administrators. The outages caused community discontentment and some speculation that the subreddit was being gamed by the administrators. Although The Button was revived within a day of the outages, the administrators of Reddit considered closing The Button experiment early.\n\nThe inherent segregation on this specific Reddit community (subreddit) lead to the development of cult-like groups surrounding specific flairs or beliefs towards the button itself. Each individual cult could be easily identified by the color of its flair, represented by the short time frame in which any user pressed the button. Of the cults, the most basic was the division between those that would press the button, “the pressers”, and those that would abstain, “the non-pressers”. More so, a unique cult formed over each of the six other colored flairs. The separate cults all held their own beliefs surrounding what might happen when the clock reached zero.\n\nA public image surrounding each cult eventually developed. Some, such as the “grey” flair given to those who would not press the button, or the “red” flair given to those that pressed it when the timer showed 0-11 seconds, were regarded as pretentious and arrogant about their beliefs, and hostile towards newcomers. Others, however, like the “purple” flair given to those that pressed the button between 52-60 seconds, were seen as compassionate and welcoming to new members. Regardless, each cult maintained a public image through the use of dressed and color-coded mascots. In addition, names arose to represent each of the cults, such as “The Emerald Council” for the green flair, or “The Violet Hand” for the purple flair. Eventually the community built around the button referred to the colored flairs not by their color, but by the name given to the cults representing them.\n\nWithin the larger group of the grey flair, those who would not press the button, smaller cults formed with unique beliefs to others that also held the grey flair. Of these, the most prominent was the “Knights of The Button”. Members of this cult attempted to prevent the button from ever reaching zero by pressing it before the clock could fully descend. The 'Knights' went so far as to create an algorithm associated with a large pool of thousands of “dummy” accounts to press the button automatically before it could reach zero. However, of these accounts, one was not verified to have been created prior to April 1st, 2015 and therefore was unable to press the button, permitting it to finally reach zero.\n\n"}
{"id": "21158101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21158101", "title": "The Eternity Man", "text": "The Eternity Man\n\nThe Eternity Man is a chamber opera in one act and seven scenes by the Australian composer Jonathan Mills to a libretto by Dorothy Porter. It deals with the life of Arthur Stace who was known as \"The Eternity Man\" because he chalked the word \"Eternity\" about 500,000 times in over 35 years on Sydney's walls and footpaths.\n\nThe opera is written for four voices. These include the voice of Stace himself (baritone) and three female characters (soprano, mezzo-soprano, contralto) who represent alternatively Stace's sister, Myrtle; a Darlinghurst brothel keeper; and an assortment of female choruses – female freaks at the Sydney Royal Easter Show and also ghosts of female convicts and a gaggle of Kings Cross drag queens. A performance lasts for about 70 minutes.\nThe work was commissioned by and premiered at London's Almeida Theatre on 23 July 2003, conducted by Stuart Stratford, production by Benedict Andrews, with singers Richard Jackson, Tara Harrison, Claire McCaldin and Andee-Louise Hippolite. The work had one Australian season, at the Sydney Festival in January 2005. That performance at the Sydney Opera House Studio, conducted by Richard Gill included the singers Grant Smith, Christa Hughes, Belinda Montgomery, Inara Molinari.\n\nIn 2008 director Julien Temple adapted the work into a 64-minute film with funding from the ABC and Britain's Channel 4. It was first shown in June 2008 at the Sydney Film Festival, subsequently at film festivals in Melbourne, Locarno, Athens, Cologne, Vancouver, Warsaw, Mar del Plata. In 2008 it won the ATOM Award for Best Experimental Film, the Gold Cinematography Award and the Judges Award for Best Work of the Year at the Queensland Australian Cinematography Awards. It was also named the Best Performing Arts program at the international 2009 Rose d'Or. The film screened on the ABC on 18 January 2009. The cast includes Grant Doyle and Christa Hughes.\n\n"}
{"id": "11691043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11691043", "title": "The Fairy God Foundation", "text": "The Fairy God Foundation\n\nThe Fairy God Foundation is a non-profit organization headquartered in Hyden, Kentucky. The charity was incorporated in 2005 and obtained IRS 501(c)(3) status as a tax exempt organization in March 2006. The Fairy God Foundation is dedicated to assisting disadvantaged students to prepare for their high school proms, primarily by providing free prom dresses. Since its inception, the foundation has been featured in print news stories throughout Southeastern Kentucky as well as covered by WYMT Mountain News in Hazard, Kentucky. The Fairy God Foundation also offers \"certificates for free hair, manicures, and pictures.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "7198683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7198683", "title": "The Unholy Alliance Tour", "text": "The Unholy Alliance Tour\n\nThe Unholy Alliance Tour is a biennial heavy metal concert tour of Europe and North America, with the tag-line \"Preaching to the Perverted\". The tour is headlined by the thrash metal band Slayer, and featured Trivium, Amon Amarth and Mastodon in its latest edition.\n\nThe 2004 European edition of the tour featured the following bands: Slayer, Slipknot, Mastodon and Hatebreed.\n\nThe 2006 North American edition of the tour, called \"Chapter I\", featured the following bands: Slayer as headliners, Lamb of God as \"direct support\" band, Children of Bodom and Mastodon in rotating slots, Thine Eyes Bleed as opening act. On July 13 in Vancouver the entire show was filmed for a forthcoming DVD, with camera angles from above the bands and in among the audience. The DVD was released on October 30, 2007.\n\n2006 European edition, called \"Chapter II\", featured the following bands: Slayer as headliners, In Flames as \"direct support\" band, Children of Bodom and Lamb of God in rotating slots, Thine Eyes Bleed as opening act. The lineup was identical to the American leg except for Mastodon, who were replaced by In Flames. The French group Gojira was the second band to perform in Paris on November 7, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "31585939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31585939", "title": "V8SuperTourer", "text": "V8SuperTourer\n\nThe V8 Supertourer is a New Zealand racing car based on a \"Car-of-the-Future\" prototype built by Paul Ceprnich of Pace Innovations Australia similar to that of the Australian V8 Supercar series. It was designed to be customised to many different manufacturers vehicles including a Holden VE Commodore, Ford FG Falcon, Toyota Camry or BMW 5 Series. Testing started in April 2010.\n\nThe V8SuperTourer Championship was run by V8SuperTourers Limited, a company formed by former NZV8 team owners Mark Petch, Wayne Anderson and Garry Pedersen.\n\nThe aim of the company was to build a new V8 touring car, similar to a current Australian V8 Supercar but at less than half the cost. The V8SuperTourer was designed to have performance similar to that of a current Australian V8 Supercar and was designed for both sprint and long distance racing, including a 120-litre capacity fuel cell.\n\nThe V8SuperTourers Championship was the name of the motor racing series in New Zealand which started in 2012 to coincide with the release of the Supertourer but changed direction in 2015. The series later became known as the NZV8 Touring Car Championship and is now the leading tier one V8 Championship in the country.\n\nDesigned and built by Paul Ceprnich of Pace Innovations Australia, the V8SuperTourer prototype uses a Holden VE Commodore body mounted on a purpose-built chassis. The chassis, like the Australian V8 Supercar car of the future (or COTF) project, is built to not only accommodate both the current VE Commodore and Ford FG Falcon bodies, but any other similar sized four-dour production vehicle such a Toyota Camry or BMW 5 Series. Interested vehicle manufacturers of four-door saloon cars of a similar size to the Holden Commodore VE and Ford FG Falcon models can apply to race in the series.\n\nThe V8SuperTourer uses a strictly-controlled, one make, all-alloy, fuel injected and dry sumped 7-litre V8 ST engine. The power-plant is derived from the Le Mans Corvette C6.R programme and is hand-built in the United States. It delivers 550 horsepower at 6,800 revs per minute and is expected to have a racing life of 10,000 kilometres before requiring maintenance. This engine is identical to that of the Mosler Automotives current and very successful GT3 sports-car.\n\nThe Link Engine Management, G4 Xtreme manages the fuel, ignition and e-throttle, gear shift cuts, performance limiting when parameters go \"out of range\" as well as supplying data to the Race Technology dash.\n\nThe drive-train consists of a triple-plate clutch, which delivers engine torque through a Quaife 6-speed sequential transmission via a two-piece pro-shaft feeding a classic 9 Ford differential, which is fitted with a Torsen-style limited slip, crown wheel carrier assembly in order to provide excellent traction in most conditions.\n\nThe rear suspension adopts the proven, yet simple in design and maintenance, three-link live rear axle fitted with camber and toe, CV style, floating rear hubs.\n\nThe front suspension is a sophisticated clean sheet, double wishbone layout that is also cleverly symmetrical from left to right, thus reducing spares inventories, etc. Both the front and rear suspension oscillations are dampened by adjustable bump and rebound shock absorbers fitted with adjustable spring platforms.\n\nThe rack and pinion power steering assembly is mounted ahead of the engine in order to better optimise the front suspension geometry and the high loads generated under long distance racing events.\n\nThe V8SuperTourer uses 11x18 forged alloy wheels carrying 280 x 680 x 18 racing slicks or wet weather radial tyres.\n\nThe Brembo brake package, use ventilated 380mm diameter 35 mm thick rotors in the front, and 355x32 mm ventilated rotors in the rear. Both the front and rear rotors are fitted with Brembo's super-stiff \"forged\" billet alloy 6 piston brake callipers, in the front and 4 piston callipers in the rear. This state of the art brake package combines to stop the comparatively light car, which has an all up weight, including driver, of less than 1,300 kg, faster than a current supercar.\n\n\nAccurate to and including, 2014\n\nAccurate to and including, 2014\n\nAccurate to and including, 2014\n\nAccurate to and including, 2014\n\nBroadcasting rights for the inaugural V8SuperTourer season in 2012 were held by TV3. TV3 brought free-to-air, same-day, coverage of all seven rounds in 2012 with the third race from each of the sprint rounds and the main race from each of the endurance rounds screening live.\n\nTV3 still screen the NZV8 Touring Car Championship on CRC Motorsport on the Sunday following each round of the series.\n\nOver 1 million viewers tuned into CRC Motorsport / BNT V8’s during the 2017/18 Championship Season.\n\n\"We had a great Season with the BNT V8’s this year, it’s always a favourite with our CRC Motorsport Viewers. BNT V8’s averaged a 180,000 to 220,000 Audience Share Reach per Show in the 18 -54 Male Demographic this year, this is up on 2016/17. We were generally the 1st or 2nd most watched Show across all Networks in that Time Slot.\" – Nigel Carpenter, Producer, TV3 CRC Motorsport.\n"}
{"id": "46274665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46274665", "title": "Verybello.it", "text": "Verybello.it\n\nverybello.it is an Italian website for the Expo 2015 hosted that year in Milan.\n\nThe website was launched in January 2015. Its early version has attracted criticism for omitting Sicily from the map of Italy, and for having only the Italian language version present. Website design and name have also been criticized.\n\nThe website, as accessed in late March 2015, had an English version, and an expanded map including Sicily.\n\n"}
{"id": "33246590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33246590", "title": "Water-Sprinkling Festival", "text": "Water-Sprinkling Festival\n\nThe Water-sprinkling festival (simplified Chinese 泼水节 ; traditional Chinese 潑水節; Pinyin: \"Pōshuǐ jié\"), is a traditional festival of the Dai nationality marking the Lunar New Year. The Dai are an ethnic minority of China who primarily live in the Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture in southern Yunnan. The predominant religion of the Dai is Theravada Buddhism and religious activities are frequent. The Water-sprinkling festival is one of the most solemn traditional festivals of this nationality. Usually, the festival takes place ten days around the Tomb-sweeping day and lasts for three or four days, it generally occurs according to the Gregorian calendar from April 13 to 15.\n\nOn the first day, people row, put to rise(放高升, cultural and artistic performance; on the second day, people sprinkle water crazily; on the third day, the young men and women get together to lost package(丢包） and exchange of goods(物资交流).\n\n"}
{"id": "21306832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21306832", "title": "World Festival of Black Arts", "text": "World Festival of Black Arts\n\nThe World Festival of Black Arts (French: ), also known as FESMAN, is a month-long culture and arts festival that takes place in Africa. The festival features poetry, sculpture, painting, music, cinema, theatre, fashion, architecture, design and dance from artists and performers from around the African Diaspora.\n\nThe festivals were planned as Pan-African celebrations, and ranged in content from debate to performance — particularly dance and theatre.\n\nThe First World Festival of Black Arts or World Festival of Negro Arts was held in Dakar, Senegal, 1–24 April 1966, initiated by former President Leopold Senghor, under the auspices of UNESCO, with the participation of 45 African, European, Caribbean, and North and South African countries, and featuring black literature, music, theater, visual arts, film and dance. It was first state-sponsored festival to showcase the work of African and African diasporic artists, musicians and writers to a global audience. Participants included historian Cheikh Anta Diop; dancers Arthur Mitchell and Alvin Ailey; Mestre Pastinha, a Capoeira troupe from Bahia; Duke Ellington; Marion Williams; singers Julie Akofa Akoussah and Bella Bellow; writers Aimé Césaire, Langston Hughes, Wole Soyinka, Amiri Baraka, Sarah Webster Fabio, and Nelson Mandela. The filmmaker William Greaves made a 40-minute documentary of the event entitled \"The First World Festival of Negro Arts\" (1968). Italian journalist Sergio Borelli produced \"Il Festival de Dakar (1966)\" a 50-minute documentary for RAI.\n\nIn 1977, from 15 January to 12 February, the Second World Festival of Black Arts or Black and African Festival of Arts and Culture — known as FESTAC '77 — took place in Lagos, Nigeria, under the patronage of President Olusegun Obasanjo. Attended by more than 17,000 participants from over 50 countries, it was the largest cultural event ever held on the African continent. Among artists who took part were Stevie Wonder, the Sun Ra Arkestra, and Donald Byrd from the US, Tabu Ley and Franco from the Congo, Gilberto Gil from Brazil, Bembeya Jazz National from Guinea, and Louis Moholo, Dudu Pukwana, and Miriam Makeba from South Africa.\n\nThe 2010 World Festival of Black Arts took place 10–31 December 2010, and was initiated by Senegalese President Abdoulaye Wade with the theme of African Renaissance. In President Wade's 2009 address at the UN, he said: \"I call all Africans, all the sons and daughters of the Diaspora, all my fellow citizens, all the partners that are ready to walk by our side, all States, all international organizations, foundations, firms, etc. for a shining success for this Festival, and for the rise of a new Africa.\" It was curated by Kwame Kwei-Armah, and participants at the opening ceremony included Youssou N'Dour, Baaba Maal, Angélique Kidjo, Toumani Diabaté, Wyclef Jean, Carlinhos Brown and the Mahotella Queens. As well as music and cinema, the festival featured art exhibitions, theatre and dance performances, fashion shows, photography and other events, with the participation of artists and intellectuals from dozens of African and African diaspora countries, including the US, Brazil, Haiti, France and Cuba.\n\n"}
{"id": "2701925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2701925", "title": "World Touring Car Championship", "text": "World Touring Car Championship\n\nThe FIA World Touring Car Championship was an international touring car championship promoted by Eurosport Events and sanctioned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). It has had several different incarnations, including a single season in 1987 as the World Touring Car Championship and most recently a world championship (WTCC) that has run between 2005 and 2017. Following the 2017 season, an agreement was reached for the FIA WTCC to become FIA WTCR and use the TCR technical regulations.\n\nThe first World Touring Car Championship, which was open to Group A Touring Cars, was held in 1987 concurrent to the long-running European Touring Car Championship (ETCC). Additional rounds were held outside Europe at Bathurst and Calder Park Raceway in Australia (Calder used a combined circuit of the road course and the then newly constructed NASCAR speedway), Wellington in New Zealand and Mount Fuji in Japan. The Championship was well-supported by the factory European teams of Ford, BMW and Alfa Romeo (until Alfa withdrew following the European races), but was embroiled in controversy. Unfortunately, the leading BMW Motorsport teams and the Ford Europe backed Eggenberger Motorsport had developed a situation of \"you don't protest us, we won't protest you\". While this worked well in the European races, when the championship landed in Australia the local teams took exception to the Europeans somewhat liberal interpretation of the Group A rules. Subsequently, the Eggenberger cars were protested against and eventually disqualified from the Bathurst 1000 results.\n\nThe championship was provisionally awarded to West German Eggenberger Ford Sierra RS500 drivers Klaus Ludwig and Klaus Niedzwiedz. It was not until March 1988 when their Bathurst disqualification was finalised that results were confirmed and Italian Schnitzer Motorsport driver Roberto Ravaglia in a BMW M3 was declared the champion. The Entrants Championship was won by the Eggenberger Texaco Ford No 7 entry. The WTCC lasted only one year and was a victim of its own success — the FIA (and Bernie Ecclestone) feared it would take money away from Formula One and stopped sanctioning the Championship. A silhouette formula championship (proposed by Ecclestone) was announced by the FIA for 1988 which would have seen specialist racing chassis carrying bodywork resembling production roadcars powered by the about to be outlawed Formula One 1.5 litre turbo regulations, but manufacturers did not support the concept. Only one car, based on an Alfa Romeo 164 with a 3.5 litre V10 engine was built before it was abandoned.\n\nIn 2001, the European Touring Car Championship (ETCC) was resumed with support from the FIA, the precursor to the current WTCC. In 2001, the Italian Superturismo Championship became the FIA European Super Touring Championship, with an extra class for Super Production cars alongside the main Super Touring class. In 2002, this evolved into the brand new FIA European Touring Car Championship, using Super 2000 rules, dominated by Alfa Romeo and BMW, but popular with the public due to the intense competition and Eurosport live broadcasts.\n\nAt the request of interested manufacturers, the ETCC was changed to the current WTCC beginning with the 2005 season, continuing to use Super 2000 and Diesel 2000 regulations. 2004 ETCC Champion Andy Priaulx and his BMW 320i were the dominant driver-car pairing during the first three years of the revived championship, winning the 2005, 2006 and 2007 Drivers and Manufacturers Championships.\n\nIn 2008, Frenchman Yvan Muller won the title after Race 1 in Macau in his SEAT León TDI. This marked the first time an FIA sanctioned world championship, in any category, being won by a diesel powered racing car. SEAT León TDI won both championships for a second time in 2009, this time in the hands of Gabriele Tarquini.\n2010 marked the start of Chevrolet's dominance of the championship with its Cruze model. Frenchman Yvan Muller became World Champion, fending off tough competition from Gabriele Tarquini and Andy Priaulx to win the first world championship for Chevrolet. Muller continued his success into 2011, winning both drivers championship and helping Chevrolet to its second manufacturers championship after Muller's two teammates finished second and third in the drivers standings. This gave Chevrolet a clean sweep of both titles. The 2012 championship saw Chevrolet pick up where they left off in 2011, leading to a second year of championship clean sweeps, this time with Rob Huff taking the drivers title.\n\nThe modern series has held events based all around the world including races in Argentina, Morocco, Hungary, Germany, Russia, France, Portugal, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Japan, China, Thailand and Qatar with former races in Brazil, Great Britain, Italy, Macau, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Turkey and the United States.\n\nTechnical rules were modified in 2011 to allow 1.6L turbo gasoline engines, and the 2.0L gasoline and turbodiesel engines were outlawed in 2012. In 2014, new car regulations were introduced with the name TC1, with larger wings and more engine power. The old 1.6L turbo cars were renamed TC2 for a year and were dropped for 2015.\n\nThe WTCC uses Super 2000 and Diesel 2000 cars, as cost control is a major theme in the technical regulation. Super 2000 engines are 1.6 L turbo-charged 4-cylinder engines producing approximately 380 bhp. Wheels are 18\" in diameter, and large front and rear aerodynamic devices are permitted.\n\nMany technologies that have featured in production cars are not allowed, including variable valve timing, variable intake geometry, ABS brakes and traction control system.\n\nCurrently, all WTCC races are awarded equal points. From 2010, these points have been based on the FIA's points system used in the FIA Formula One Championship and the FIA World Rally Championship.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2009, the championship adopted the following points scoring system:\n\nFor the inaugural 1987 season, the championship used the following points scoring system:\n\nAs per FIA WTCC all-time statistics on the official site of the WTCC.\n\nThe WTCC features entries with the backing, funding and technical support of a motor manufacturer. This can sometimes be a motor racing team running cars of behalf of the manufacturer or cars being run directly by the factory. Below is a timeline of manufacturer/constructor entries from the beginning of the championship in 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
