{"id": "7602883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7602883", "title": "A72 road", "text": "A72 road\n\nThe A72 road is a major route in Scotland connecting Hamilton in South Lanarkshire, with Galashiels in the Scottish Borders. It travels for over in a south-easterly direction, along the Clyde and Tweed valleys, passing the towns of Larkhall, Lanark, Biggar and Peebles.\n\nStarting at the junction with the A724, the road parallels the M74, following the original A74 (now B7078) before descending into the forested Clyde Valley as it skirts around the town of Larkhall. The road follows the River Clyde, with some tight bends, sheer drops and adverse cambers, and meets the A73 just north of Lanark. \n\nThis section of the road follows the course of the A73 through the town of Lanark and, just before Symington, again becomes the A72. It meets the main A702, Edinburgh to Abington, South Lanarkshire road; this short section of road is narrow as it passes through Symington.\n\nThis section of the road follows the course of the A702 for approximately 3 miles through the town of Biggar. The A72 enters the village of Skirling before ascending onto higher moorland. This section of road is notorious for accidents due to its high elevation, poor weather and winding route.\n\nOn this last section of A72, it is the secondary route on the A701. Just south of Blyth Bridge, it meets the A721, and less than a mile further, it leaves the course of the A701. The A72 ascends a high plateau, then descends into the valley of the River Tweed at Stobo, and parallels the Tweed for the remainder of its length.\n\nThe road passes through Peebles and then Innerleithen and Walkerburn towards Galashiels. It comes to an end at a junction with the A7, which leads on to the Galashiels Ring Road.\n"}
{"id": "21083465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21083465", "title": "Ashkharatsuyts", "text": "Ashkharatsuyts\n\nAshkharatsuyts (Աշխարհացոյց ; Աշխարհացույց ), often translated as Geography in English sources, is an early Medieval Armenian illustrated book by Anania Shirakatsi. It is about the geography of Armenia, Georgia, Iran, Iraq, etc.\n\"Ashkharatsuyts\" is the oldest book in Matenadaran on geography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698", "title": "Atlantic Ocean", "text": "Atlantic Ocean\n\nThe Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the world's oceans, with an area of about . It covers approximately 20 percent of the Earth's surface and about 29 percent of its water surface area. It separates the \"Old World\" from the \"New World\".\n\nThe Atlantic Ocean occupies an elongated, S-shaped basin extending longitudinally between Europe and Africa to the east, and the Americas to the west. As one component of the interconnected global ocean, it is connected in the north to the Arctic Ocean, to the Pacific Ocean in the southwest, the Indian Ocean in the southeast, and the Southern Ocean in the south (other definitions describe the Atlantic as extending southward to Antarctica). The Equatorial Counter Current subdivides it into the North Atlantic Ocean and the South Atlantic Ocean at about 8°N.\n\nScientific explorations of the Atlantic include the Challenger expedition, the German Meteor expedition, Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and the United States Navy Hydrographic Office.\n\nThe oldest known mentions of an \"Atlantic\" sea come from Stesichorus around mid-sixth century BC (Sch. A. R. 1. 211): \"Atlantikoi pelágei\" (Greek: Ἀτλαντικῷ πελάγει; English: 'the Atlantic sea'; etym. 'Sea of Atlantis') and in \"The Histories\" of Herodotus around 450 BC (Hdt. 1.202.4): \"Atlantis thalassa\" (Greek: Ἀτλαντὶς θάλασσα; English: 'Sea of Atlantis' or 'the Atlantis sea') where the name refers to \"the sea beyond the pillars of Heracles\" which is said to be part of the sea that surrounds all land. Thus, on one hand, the name refers to Atlas, the Titan in Greek mythology, who supported the heavens and who later appeared as a frontispiece in Medieval maps and also lent his name to modern atlases. On the other hand, to early Greek sailors and in Ancient Greek mythological literature such as the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", this all-encompassing ocean was instead known as Oceanus, the gigantic river that encircled the world; in contrast to the enclosed seas well known to the Greeks: the Mediterranean and the Black Sea.\nIn contrast, the term \"Atlantic\" originally referred specifically to the Atlas Mountains in Morocco and the sea off the Strait of Gibraltar and the North African coast. The Greek word \"thalassa\" has been reused by scientists for the huge Panthalassa ocean that surrounded the supercontinent Pangaea hundreds of millions of years ago.\n\nThe term \"Aethiopian Ocean\", derived from Ancient Ethiopia, was applied to the Southern Atlantic as late as the mid-19th century.\nDuring the Age of Discovery, the Atlantic was also known to English cartographers as the Great Western Ocean.\n\nThe International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) defined the limits of the oceans and seas in 1953, but some of these definitions have been revised since then and some are not used by various authorities, institutions, and countries, see for example the CIA World Factbook. Correspondingly, the extent and number of oceans and seas varies.\n\nThe Atlantic Ocean is bounded on the west by North and South America. It connects to the Arctic Ocean through the Denmark Strait, Greenland Sea, Norwegian Sea and Barents Sea. To the east, the boundaries of the ocean proper are Europe: the Strait of Gibraltar (where it connects with the Mediterranean Sea–one of its marginal seas–and, in turn, the Black Sea, both of which also touch upon Asia) and Africa.\n\nIn the southeast, the Atlantic merges into the Indian Ocean. The 20° East meridian, running south from Cape Agulhas to Antarctica defines its border. In the 1953 definition it extends south to Antarctica, while in later maps it is bounded at the 60° parallel by the Southern Ocean.\n\nThe Atlantic has irregular coasts indented by numerous bays, gulfs and seas. These include the Baltic Sea, Black Sea, Caribbean Sea, Davis Strait, Denmark Strait, part of the Drake Passage, Gulf of Mexico, Labrador Sea, Mediterranean Sea, North Sea, Norwegian Sea, almost all of the Scotia Sea, and other tributary water bodies. Including these marginal seas the coast line of the Atlantic measures compared to for the Pacific.\n\nIncluding its marginal seas, the Atlantic covers an area of or 23.5% of the global ocean and has a volume of or 23.3% of the total volume of the earth's oceans. Excluding its marginal seas, the Atlantic covers and has a volume of . The North Atlantic covers (11.5%) and the South Atlantic (11.1%). The average depth is and the maximum depth, the Milwaukee Deep in the Puerto Rico Trench, is .\n\nThe bathymetry of the Atlantic is dominated by a submarine mountain range called the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR). It runs from 87°N or south of the North Pole to the subantarctic Bouvet Island at 42°S.\n\nThe MAR divides the Atlantic longitudinally into two halves, in each of which a series of basins are delimited by secondary, transverse ridges. The MAR reaches above along most of its length, but is interrupted by larger transform faults at two places: the Romanche Trench near the Equator and the Gibbs Fracture Zone at 53°N. The MAR is a barrier for bottom water, but at these two transform faults deep water currents can pass from one side to the other.\n\nThe MAR rises above the surrounding ocean floor and its rift valley is the divergent boundary between the North American and Eurasian plates in the North Atlantic and the South American and African plates in the South Atlantic. The MAR produces basaltic volcanoes in Eyjafjallajökull, Iceland, and pillow lava on the ocean floor. The depth of water at the apex of the ridge is less than in most places, while the bottom of the ridge is three times as deep.\n\nThe MAR is intersected by two perpendicular ridges: the Azores–Gibraltar Transform Fault, the boundary between the Nubian and Eurasian plates, intersects the MAR at the Azores Triple Junction, on either side of the Azores microplate, near the 40°N. A much vaguer, nameless boundary, between the North American and South American plates, intersects the MAR near or just north of the Fifteen-Twenty Fracture Zone, approximately at 16°N.\n\nIn the 1870s, the Challenger expedition discovered parts of what is now known as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, or:\n\nMost of the MAR runs under water but where it reaches the surfaces it has produced volcanic islands. While nine of these have collectively been nominated a World Heritage Site for their geological value, four of them are considered of \"Outstanding Universal Value\" based on their cultural and natural criteria: Þingvellir, Iceland; Landscape of the Pico Island Vineyard Culture, Portugal; Gough and Inaccessible Islands, United Kingdom; and Brazilian Atlantic Islands: Fernando de Noronha and Atol das Rocas Reserves, Brazil.\n\nContinental shelves in the Atlantic are wide off Newfoundland, southern-most South America, and north-eastern Europe.\nIn the western Atlantic carbonate platforms dominate large areas, for example the Blake Plateau and Bermuda Rise.\nThe Atlantic is surrounded by passive margins except at a few locations where active margins form deep trenches: the Puerto Rico Trench ( maximum depth) in the western Pacific and South Sandwich Trench () in the South Atlantic. There are numerous submarine canyons off north-eastern North America, western Europe, and north-western Africa. Some of these canyons extend along the continental rises and farther into the abyssal plains as deep-sea channels.\n\nIn 1922 a historic moment in cartography and oceanography occurred. The USS Stewart used a Navy Sonic Depth Finder to draw a continuous map across the bed of the Atlantic. This involved little guesswork because the idea of sonar is straight forward with pulses being sent from the vessel, which bounce off the ocean floor, then return to the vessel. The deep ocean floor is thought to be fairly flat with occasional deeps, abyssal plains, trenches, seamounts, basins, plateaus, canyons, and some guyots. Various shelves along the margins of the continents constitute about 11% of the bottom topography with few deep channels cut across the continental rise.\n\nThe mean depth between 60°N and 60°S is , or close to the average for the global ocean, with a modal depth between .\n\nIn the South Atlantic the Walvis Ridge and Rio Grande Rise form barriers to ocean currents.\nThe Laurentian Abyss is found off the eastern coast of Canada.\n\nSurface water temperatures, which vary with latitude, current systems, and season and reflect the latitudinal distribution of solar energy, range from below to over . Maximum temperatures occur north of the equator, and minimum values are found in the polar regions. In the middle latitudes, the area of maximum temperature variations, values may vary by .\n\nFrom October to June the surface is usually covered with sea ice in the Labrador Sea, Denmark Strait, and Baltic Sea.\n\nThe Coriolis effect circulates North Atlantic water in a clockwise direction, whereas South Atlantic water circulates counter-clockwise. The south tides in the Atlantic Ocean are semi-diurnal; that is, two high tides occur during each 24 lunar hours. In latitudes above 40° North some east-west oscillation, known as the North Atlantic oscillation, occurs.\n\nOn average, the Atlantic is the saltiest major ocean; surface water salinity in the open ocean ranges from 33 to 37 parts per thousand (3.3 – 3.7%) by mass and varies with latitude and season. Evaporation, precipitation, river inflow and sea ice melting influence surface salinity values. Although the lowest salinity values are just north of the equator (because of heavy tropical rainfall), in general the lowest values are in the high latitudes and along coasts where large rivers enter. Maximum salinity values occur at about 25° north and south, in subtropical regions with low rainfall and high evaporation.\n\nThe high surface salinity in the Atlantic, on which the Atlantic thermohaline circulation is dependent, is maintained by two processes: the Agulhas Leakage/Rings, which brings salty Indian Ocean waters into the South Atlantic, and the \"Atmospheric Bridge\", which evaporates subtropical Atlantic waters and exports it to the Pacific.\n\nThe Atlantic Ocean consists of four major, upper water masses with distinct temperature and salinity. The Atlantic Subarctic Upper Water in the northern-most North Atlantic is the source for Subarctic Intermediate Water and North Atlantic Intermediate Water. North Atlantic Central Water can be divided into the Eastern and Western North Atlantic central Water since the western part is strongly affected by the Gulf Stream and therefore the upper layer is closer to underlying fresher subpolar intermediate water. The eastern water is saltier because of its proximity to Mediterranean Water. North Atlantic Central Water flows into South Atlantic Central Water at 15°N.\n\nThere are five intermediate waters: four low-salinity waters formed at subpolar latitudes and one high-salinity formed through evaporation. Arctic Intermediate Water, flows from north to become the source for North Atlantic Deep Water south of the Greenland-Scotland sill. These two intermediate waters have different salinity in the western and eastern basins. The wide range of salinities in the North Atlantic is caused by the asymmetry of the northern subtropical gyre and the large number of contributions from a wide range of sources: Labrador Sea, Norwegian-Greenland Sea, Mediterranean, and South Atlantic Intermediate Water.\n\nThe North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW) is a complex of four water masses, two that form by deep convection in the open ocean — Classical and Upper Labrador Sea Water — and two that form from the inflow of dense water across the Greenland-Iceland-Scotland sill — Denmark Strait and Iceland-Scotland Overflow Water. Along its path across Earth the composition of the NADW is affected by other water masses, especially Antarctic Bottom Water and Mediterranean Overflow Water.\nThe NADW is fed by a flow of warm shallow water into the northern North Atlantic which is responsible for the anomalous warm climate in Europe. Changes in the formation of NADW have been linked to global climate changes in the past. Since man-made substances were introduced into the environment, the path of the NADW can be traced throughout its course by measuring tritium and radiocarbon from nuclear weapon tests in the 1960s and CFCs.\n\nThe clockwise warm-water North Atlantic Gyre occupies the northern Atlantic, and the counter-clockwise warm-water South Atlantic Gyre appears in the southern Atlantic.\n\nIn the North Atlantic, surface circulation is dominated by three inter-connected currents: the Gulf Stream which flows north-east from the North American coast at Cape Hatteras; the North Atlantic Current, a branch of the Gulf Stream which flows northward from the Grand Banks; and the Subpolar Front, an extension of the North Atlantic Current, a wide, vaguely defined region separating the subtropical gyre from the subpolar gyre. This system of currents transport warm water into the North Atlantic, without which temperatures in the North Atlantic and Europe would plunge dramatically.\nNorth of the North Atlantic Gyre, the cyclonic North Atlantic Subpolar Gyre plays a key role in climate variability. It is governed by ocean currents from marginal seas and regional topography, rather than being steered by wind, both in the deep ocean and at sea level.\nThe subpolar gyre forms an important part of the global thermohaline circulation. Its eastern portion includes eddying branches of the North Atlantic Current which transport warm, saline waters from the subtropics to the north-eastern Atlantic. There this water is cooled during winter and forms return currents that merge along the eastern continental slope of Greenland where they form an intense (40–50 Sv) current which flows around the continental margins of the Labrador Sea. A third of this water become parts of the deep portion of the North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW). The NADW, in its turn, feed the meridional overturning circulation (MOC), the northward heat transport of which is threatened by anthropogenic climate change. Large variations in the subpolar gyre on a decade-century scale, associated with the North Atlantic oscillation, are especially pronounced in Labrador Sea Water, the upper layers of the MOC.\n\nThe South Atlantic is dominated by the anti-cyclonic southern subtropical gyre. The South Atlantic Central Water originates in this gyre, while Antarctic Intermediate Water originates in the upper layers of the circumpolar region, near the Drake Passage and Falkland Islands. Both these currents receive some contribution from the Indian Ocean. On the African east coast the small cyclonic Angola Gyre lies embedded in the large subtropical gyre.\nThe southern subtropical gyre is partly masked by a wind-induced Ekman layer. The residence time of the gyre is 4.4–8.5 years. North Atlantic Deep Water flows southerward below the thermocline of the subtropical gyre.\n\nThe Sargasso Sea in the western North Atlantic can be defined as the area where two species of \"Sargassum\" (\"S. fluitans\" and \"natans\") float, an area wide and encircled by the Gulf Stream, North Atlantic Drift, and North Equatorial Current. This population of seaweed probably originated from Tertiary ancestors on the European shores of the former Tethys Ocean and has, if so, maintained itself by vegetative growth, floating in the ocean for millions of years.\nOther species endemic to the Sargasso Sea include the sargassum fish, a predator with algae-like appendages who hovers motionless among the \"Sargassum\". Fossils of similar fishes have been found in fossil bays of the former Tethys Ocean, in what is now the Carpathian region, that were similar to the Sargasso Sea. It is possible that the population in the Sargasso Sea migrated to the Atlantic as the Tethys closed at the end of the Miocene around 17 Ma.\nThe origin of the Sargasso fauna and flora remained enigmatic for centuries. The fossils found in the Carpathians in the mid-20th century, often called the \"quasi-Sargasso assemblage\", finally showed that this assemblage originated in the Carpathian Basin from where it migrated over Sicily to the Central Atlantic where it evolved into modern species of the Sargasso Sea.\n\nThe location of the spawning ground for European eels remained unknown for decades. In the early 19th century it was discovered that the southern Sargasso Sea is the spawning ground for both the European and American eel and that the former migrate more than and the latter . Ocean currents such as the Gulf Stream transport eel larvae from the Sargasso Sea to foraging areas in North America, Europe, and Northern Africa. Recent but disputed research suggests that eels possibly use Earth's magnetic field to navigate through the ocean both as larvae and as adults.\n\nClimate is influenced by the temperatures of the surface waters and water currents as well as winds. Because of the ocean's great capacity to store and release heat, maritime climates are more moderate and have less extreme seasonal variations than inland climates. Precipitation can be approximated from coastal weather data and air temperature from water temperatures.\n\nThe oceans are the major source of the atmospheric moisture that is obtained through evaporation. Climatic zones vary with latitude; the warmest zones stretch across the Atlantic north of the equator. The coldest zones are in high latitudes, with the coldest regions corresponding to the areas covered by sea ice. Ocean currents influence climate by transporting warm and cold waters to other regions. The winds that are cooled or warmed when blowing over these currents influence adjacent land areas.\n\nThe Gulf Stream and its northern extension towards Europe, the North Atlantic Drift is thought to have at least some influence on climate. For example, the Gulf Stream helps moderate winter temperatures along the coastline of southeastern North America, keeping it warmer in winter along the coast than inland areas. The Gulf Stream also keeps extreme temperatures from occurring on the Florida Peninsula. In the higher latitudes, the North Atlantic Drift, warms the atmosphere over the oceans, keeping the British Isles and north-western Europe mild and cloudy, and not severely cold in winter like other locations at the same high latitude. The cold water currents contribute to heavy fog off the coast of eastern Canada (the Grand Banks of Newfoundland area) and Africa's north-western coast. In general, winds transport moisture and air over land areas.\n\nIcebergs are common from early February to the end of July across the shipping lanes near the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. The ice season is longer in the polar regions, but there is little shipping in those areas.\n\nHurricanes are hazard in the western parts of the North Atlantic during the summer and autumn. Due to a consistently strong wind shear and a weak Intertropical Convergence Zone, they are practically unknown in the South Atlantic.\n\nThe break-up of Pangaea began in the Central Atlantic, between North America and Northwest Africa, where rift basins opened during the Late Triassic and Early Jurassic. This period also saw the first stages of the uplift of the Atlas Mountains. The exact timing is controversial with estimates ranging from 200 to 170 Ma.\n\nThe opening of the Atlantic Ocean coincided with the initial break-up of the supercontinent Pangaea, both of which were initiated by the eruption of the Central Atlantic Magmatic Province (CAMP), one of the most extensive and voluminous large igneous provinces in Earth's history associated with the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, one of Earth's major extinction events.\nTheoliitic dikes, sills, and lava flows from the CAMP eruption at 200 Ma have been found in West Africa, eastern North America, and northern South America. The extent of the volcanism has been estimated to of which covered what is now northern and central Brazil.\n\nThe formation of the Central American Isthmus closed the Central American Seaway at the end of the Pliocene 2.8 Ma ago. The formation of the isthmus resulted in the migration and extinction of many land-living animals, known as the Great American Interchange, but the closure of the seaway resulted in a \"Great American Schism\" as it affected ocean currents, salinity, and temperatures in both the Atlantic and Pacific. Marine organisms on both sides of the isthmus became isolated and either diverged or went extinct.\n\nGeologically the Northern Atlantic is the area delimited to the south by two conjugate margins, Newfoundland and Iberia, and to the north by the Arctic Eurasian Basin. The opening of the Northern Atlantic closely followed the margins of its predecessor, the Iapetus Ocean, and spread from the Central Atlantic in six stages: Iberia–Newfoundland, Porcupine–North America, Eurasia–Greenland, Eurasia–North America. Active and inactive spreading systems in this area are marked by the interaction with the Iceland hotspot.\n\nWest Gondwana (South America and Africa) broke up in the Early Cretaceous to form the South Atlantic. The apparent fit between the coastlines of the two continents was noted on the first maps that included the South Atlantic and it was also the subject of the first computer-assisted plate tectonic reconstructions in 1965. This magnificent fit, however, has since then proven problematic and later reconstructions have introduced various deformation zones along the shorelines to accommodate the northward-propagating break-up. Intra-continental rifts and deformations have also been introduced to subdivide both continental plates into sub-plates.\n\nGeologically the South Atlantic can be divided into four segments: Equatorial segment, from 10°N to the Romanche Fracture Zone (RFZ);; Central segment, from RFZ to Florianopolis Fracture Zone (FFZ, north of Walvis Ridge and Rio Grande Rise); Southern segment, from FFZ to the Agulhas-Falkland Fracture Zone (AFFZ); and Falkland segment, south of AFFZ.\n\nIn the southern segment the Early Cretaceous (133–130 Ma) intensive magmatism of the Paraná–Etendeka Large Igneous Province produced by the Tristan hotspot resulted in an estimated volume of . It covered an area of in Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay and in Africa. Dyke swarms in Brazil, Angola, eastern Paraguay, and Namibia, however, suggest the LIP originally covered a much larger area and also indicate failed rifts in all these areas. Associated offshore basaltic flows reach as far south as the Falkland Islands and South Africa. Traces of magmatism in both offshore and onshore basins in the central and southern segments have been dated to 147–49 Ma with two peaks between 143–121 Ma and 90–60 Ma.\n\nIn the Falkland segment rifting began with dextral movements between the Patagonia and Colorado sub-plates between the Early Jurassic (190 Ma) and the Early Cretaceous (126.7 Ma). Around 150 Ma sea-floor spreading propagated northward into the southern segment. No later than 130 Ma rifting had reached the Walvis Ridge–Rio Grande Rise.\n\nIn the central segment rifting started to break Africa in two by opening the Benue Trough around 118 Ma. Rifting in the central segment, however, coincided with the Cretaceous Normal Superchron (also known as the Cretaceous quiet period), a 40 Ma period without magnetic reversals, which makes it difficult to date sea-floor spreading in this segment.\n\nThe equatorial segment is the last phase of the break-up, but, because it is located on the Equator, magnetic anomalies cannot be used for dating. Various estimates date the propagation of sea-floor spreading in this segment to the period 120–96 Ma. This final stage, nevertheless, coincided with or resulted in the end of continental extension in Africa.\n\nAbout 50 Ma the opening of the Drake Passage resulted from a change in the motions and separation rate of the South American and Antarctic plates. First small ocean basins opened and a shallow gateway appeared during the Middle Eocene. 34–30 Ma a deeper seaway developed, followed by an Eocene–Oligocene climatic deterioration and the growth of the Antarctic ice sheet.\n\nAn embryonic subduction margin is potentially developing west of Gibraltar. The Gibraltar Arc in the western Mediterranean is migrating westward into the Central Atlantic where it joins the converging African and Eurasian plates. Together these three tectonic forces are slowly developing into a new subduction system in the eastern Atlantic Basin. Meanwhile, the Scotia Arc and Caribbean Plate in the western Atlantic Basin are eastward-propagating subduction systems that might, together with the Gibraltar system, represent the beginning of the closure of the Atlantic Ocean and the final stage of the Atlantic Wilson cycle.\n\nHumans evolved in Africa; first by diverging from other apes around 7 Ma; then developing stone tools around 2.6 Ma; to finally evolve as modern humans around 100 kya. The earliest evidences for the complex behavior associated with this behavioral modernity has been found in the Greater Cape Floristic Region (GCFR) along the coast of South Africa. During the latest glacial stages the now-submerged plains of the Agulhas Bank were exposed above sea level, extending the South African coastline farther south by hundreds of kilometers. A small population of modern humans — probably fewer than a thousand reproducing individuals — survived glacial maxima by exploring the high diversity offered by these Palaeo-Agulhas plains. The GCFR is delimited to the north by the Cape Fold Belt and the limited space south of it resulted in the development of social networks out of which complex Stone Age technologies emerged. Human history thus begins on the coasts of South Africa where the Atlantic Benguela Upwelling and Indian Ocean Agulhas Current meet to produce an intertidal zone on which shellfish, fur seal, fish and sea birds provided the necessary protein sources.\nThe African origin of this modern behaviour is evidenced by 70,000 years-old engravings from Blombos Cave, South Africa.\n\nMitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) studies indicate that 80–60,000 years ago a major demographic expansion within Africa, derived from a single, small population, coincided with the emergence of behavioral complexity and the rapid MIS 5–4 environmental changes. This group of people not only expanded over the whole of Africa, but also started to disperse out of Africa into Asia, Europe, and Australasia around 65,000 years ago and quickly replaced the archaic humans in these regions. During the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM) 20,000 years ago humans had to abandon their initial settlements along the European North Atlantic coast and retreat to the Mediterranean. Following rapid climate changes at the end of the LGM this region was repopulated by Magdalenian culture. Other hunter-gatherers followed in waves interrupted by large-scale hazards such as the Laacher See volcanic eruption, the inundation of Doggerland (now the North Sea), and the formation of the Baltic Sea. The European coasts of the North Atlantic were permanently populated about 9–8.5 thousand years ago.\n\nThis human dispersal left abundant traces along the coasts of the Atlantic Ocean. 50 ka-old, deeply stratified shell middens found in Ysterfontein on the western coast of South Africa are associated with the Middle Stone Age (MSA). The MSA population was small and dispersed and the rate of their reproduction and exploitation was less intense than those of later generations. While their middens resemble 12–11 ka-old Late Stone Age (LSA) middens found on every inhabited continent, the 50–45 ka-old Enkapune Ya Muto in Kenya probably represents the oldest traces of the first modern humans to disperse out of Africa.\n\nThe same development can be seen in Europe. In La Riera Cave (23–13 ka) in Asturias, Spain, only some 26,600 molluscs were deposited over 10 ka. In contrast, 8–7 ka-old shell middens in Portugal, Denmark, and Brazil generated thousands of tons of debris and artefacts. The Ertebølle middens in Denmark, for example, accumulated of shell deposits representing some 50 million molluscs over only a thousand years. This intensification in the exploitation of marine resources has been described as accompanied by new technologies — such as boats, harpoons, and fish-hooks — because many caves found in the Mediterranean and on the European Atlantic coast have increased quantities of marine shells in their upper levels and reduced quantities in their lower. The earliest exploitation, however, took place on the now submerged shelves, and most settlements now excavated were then located several kilometers from these shelves. The reduced quantities of shells in the lower levels can represent the few shells that were exported inland.\n\nDuring the LGM the Laurentide Ice Sheet covered most of northern North America while Beringia connected Siberia to Alaska. In 1973 late American geoscientist Paul S. Martin proposed a \"blitzkrieg\" colonization of the Americas by which Clovis hunters migrated into North America around 13,000 years ago in a single wave through an ice-free corridor in the ice sheet and \"spread southward explosively, briefly attaining a density sufficiently large to overkill much of their prey.\" Others later proposed a \"three-wave\" migration over the Bering Land Bridge. These hypotheses remained the long-held view regarding the settlement of the Americas, a view challenged by more recent archaeological discoveries: the oldest archaeological sites in the Americas have been found in South America; sites in north-east Siberia report virtually no human presence there during the LGM; and most Clovis artefacts have been found in eastern North America along the Atlantic coast. Furthermore, colonisation models based on mtDNA, yDNA, and atDNA data respectively support neither the \"blitzkrieg\" nor the \"three-wave\" hypotheses but they also deliver mutually ambiguous results. Contradictory data from archaeology and genetics will most likely deliver future hypotheses that will, eventually, confirm each other. A proposed route across the Pacific to South America could explain early South American finds and another hypothesis proposes a northern path, through the Canadian Arctic and down the North American Atlantic coast.\nEarly settlements across the Atlantic have been suggested by alternative theories, ranging from purely hypothetical to mostly disputed, including the Solutrean hypothesis and some of the Pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact theories.\nThe Norse settlement of the Faroe Islands and Iceland began during the 9th and 10th centuries. A settlement on Greenland was established before 1000 CE, but contact with it was lost in 1409 and it was finally abandoned during the early Little Ice Age. This setback was caused by a range of factors: an unsustainable economy resulted in erosion and denudation, while conflicts with the local Inuit resulted in the failure to adapt their Arctic technologies; a colder climate resulted in starvation; and the colony got economically marginalized as the Great Plague and Barbary pirates harvested its victims on Iceland in the 15th century.\nIceland was initially settled 865–930 CE following a warm period when winter temperatures hovered around which made farming favorable at high latitudes. This did not last, however, and temperatures quickly dropped; at 1080 CE summer temperatures had reached a maximum of . The \"Landnámabók\" (\"Book of Settlement\") records disastrous famines during the first century of settlement — \"men ate foxes and ravens\" and \"the old and helpless were killed and thrown over cliffs\" — and by the early 1200s hay had to be abandoned for short-season crops such as barley.\n\nChristopher Columbus discovered the Americas in 1492 under Spanish flag. Six years later Vasco da Gama reached India under Portuguese flag, by navigating south around the Cape of Good Hope, thus proving that the Atlantic and Indian Oceans are connected. In 1500, in his voyage to India following Vasco da Gama, Pedro Alvares Cabral reached Brazil, taken by the currents of the South Atlantic Gyre. Following these explorations, Spain and Portugal quickly conquered and colonized large territories in the New World and forced the Amerindian population into slavery in order to explore the vast quantities of silver and gold they found. Spain and Portugal monopolized this trade in order to keep other European nations out, but conflicting interests nevertheless led to a series of Spanish-Portuguese wars. A peace treaty mediated by the Pope divided the conquered territories into Spanish and Portuguese sectors while keeping other colonial powers away. England, France, and the Dutch Republic enviously watched the Spanish and Portuguese wealth grow and allied themselves with pirates such as Henry Mainwaring and Alexandre Exquemelin. They could explore the convoys leaving the Americas because prevailing winds and currents made the transport of heavy metals slow and predictable.\nIn the colonies of the Americas, depredation, disease, and slavery quickly reduced the indigenous population of the Americas to the extent that the Atlantic slave trade had to be introduced to replace them — a trade that became norm and an integral part of the colonization. Between the 15th century and 1888, when Brazil became the last part of the Americas to end slave trade, an estimated ten million Africans were exported as slaves, most of them destined for agricultural labour. The slave trade was officially abolished in the British Empire and the United States in 1808, and slavery itself was abolished in the British Empire in 1838 and in the United States in 1865 after the Civil War.\n\nFrom Columbus to the Industrial Revolution Trans-Atlantic trade, including colonialism and slavery, became crucial for Western Europe. For European countries with a direct access to the Atlantic (including Britain, France, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain) 1500–1800 was a period of sustained growth during which these countries grew richer than those in Eastern Europe and Asia. Colonialism evolved as part of the Trans-Atlantic trade, but this trade also strengthened the position of merchant groups at the expense of monarchs. Growth was more rapid in non-absolutist countries, such as Britain and the Netherlands, and more limited in absolutist monarchies, such as Portugal, Spain, and France, where profit mostly or exclusively benefited the monarchy and its allies.\n\nTrans-Atlantic trade also resulted in an increasing urbanization: in European countries facing the Atlantic urbanization grew from 8% in 1300, 10.1% in 1500, to 24.5% in 1850; in other European countries from 10% in 1300, 11.4% in 1500, to 17% in 1850. Likewise, GDP doubled in Atlantic countries but rose by only 30% in the rest of Europe. By end of the 17th century the volume of the Trans-Atlantic trade had surpassed that of the Mediterranean trade.\n\nThe Atlantic has contributed significantly to the development and economy of surrounding countries. Besides major transatlantic transportation and communication routes, the Atlantic offers abundant petroleum deposits in the sedimentary rocks of the continental shelves.\n\nThe Atlantic harbors petroleum and gas fields, fish, marine mammals (seals and whales), sand and gravel aggregates, placer deposits, polymetallic nodules, and precious stones.\nGold deposits are a mile or two under water on the ocean floor, however the deposits are also encased in rock that must be mined through. Currently, there is no cost-effective way to mine or extract gold from the ocean to make a profit.\n\nVarious international treaties attempt to reduce pollution caused by environmental threats such as oil spills, marine debris, and the incineration of toxic wastes at sea.\n\nThe shelves of the Atlantic hosts one of the world's richest fishing resources. The most productive areas include the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, the Scotian Shelf, Georges Bank off Cape Cod, the Bahama Banks, the waters around Iceland, the Irish Sea, the Bay of Fundy, the Dogger Bank of the North Sea, and the Falkland Banks.\nFisheries have, however, undergone significant changes since the 1950s and global catches can now be divided into three groups of which only two are observed in the Atlantic: fisheries in the Eastern Central and South-West Atlantic oscillate around a globally stable value, the rest of the Atlantic is in overall decline following historical peaks. The third group, \"continuously increasing trend since 1950\", is only found in the Indian Ocean and Western Pacific.\nIn the North-East Atlantic total catches decreased between the mid-1970s and the 1990s and reached 8.7 million tons in 2013. Blue whiting reached a 2.4 million tons peak in 2004 but was down to 628,000 tons in 2013. Recovery plans for cod, sole, and plaice have reduced mortality in these species. Arctic cod reached its lowest levels in the 1960s–1980s but is now recovered. Arctic saithe and haddock are considered fully fished; Sand eel is overfished as was capelin which has now recovered to fully fished. Limited data makes the state of redfishes and deep-water species difficult to assess but most likely they remain vulnerable to overfishing. Stocks of northern shrimp and Norwegian lobster are in good condition. In the North-East Atlantic 21% of stocks are considered overfished.\nIn the North-West Atlantic landings have decreased from 4.2 million tons in the early 1970s to 1.9 million tons in 2013. During the 21st century some species have shown weak signs of recovery, including Greenland halibut, yellowtail flounder, Atlantic halibut, haddock, spiny dogfish, while other stocks shown no such signs, including cod, witch flounder, and redfish. Stocks of invertebrates, in contrast, remain at record levels of abundance. 31% of stocks are overfished in the North-west Atlantic.\n\nIn 1497 John Cabot became the first to explore mainland North America and one of his major discoveries was the abundant resources of Atlantic cod off Newfoundland. Referred to as \"Newfoundland Currency\" this discovery yielded some 200 million tons of fish over five centuries. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries new fisheries started to exploit haddock, mackerel, and lobster. From the 1950s to the 1970s the introduction of European and Asian distant-water fleets in the area dramatically increased the fishing capacity and number of exploited species. It also expanded the exploited areas from near-shore to the open sea and to great depths to include deep-water species such as redfish, Greenland halibut, witch flounder, and grenadiers. Overfishing in the area was recognised as early as the 1960s but, because this was occurring on international waters, it took until the late 1970s before any attempts to regulate was made. In the early 1990s this finally resulted in the collapse of the Atlantic northwest cod fishery. The population of a number of deep-sea fishes also collapsed in the process, including American plaice, redfish, and Greenland halibut, together with flounder and grenadier.\n\nIn the Eastern Central Atlantic small pelagic fishes constitute about 50% of landings with sardine reaching 0.6–1.0 million tons per year. Pelagic fish stocks are considered fully fishes or overfished, with sardines south of Cape Bojador the notable exception. Almost half of stocks are fished at biologically unsustainable levels. Total catches have been fluctuating since the 1970s; reaching 3.9 million tons in 2013 or slightly less than the peak production in 2010.\nIn the Western Central Atlantic catches have been decreasing since 2000 and reached 1.3 million tons in 2013. The most important species in the area, Gulf menhaden, reached a million tons in the mid-1980s but only half a million tons in 2013 and is now considered fully fished. Round sardinella was an important species in the 1990s but is now considered overfished. Groupers and snappers are overfished and northern brown shrimp and American cupped oyster are considered fully fished approaching overfished. 44% of stocks are being fished at unsustainable levels.\nIn the South-East Atlantic catches have decreased from 3.3 million tons in the early 1970s to 1.3 million tons in 2013. Horse mackerel and hake are the most important species, together representing almost half of the landings. Off South Africa and Namibia deep-water hake and shallow-water Cape hake have recovered to sustainable levels since regulations were introduced in 2006 and the states of Southern African pilchard and anchovy have improved to fully fished in 2013.\n\nIn the South-West Atlantic a peak was reached in the mid-1980s and catches now fluctuate between 1.7 and 2.6 million tons. The most important species, the Argentine shortfin squid, which reached half a million tons in 2013 or half the peak value, is considered fully fished to overfished. Another important species was the Brazilian sardinella, with a production of 100,000 tons in 2013 it is now considered overfished. Half the stocks in this area are being fished at unsustainable levels: Whitehead’s round herring has not yet reached fully fished but Cunene horse mackerel is overfished. The sea snail perlemoen abalone is targeted by illegal fishing and remain overfished.\n\nEndangered marine species include the manatee, seals, sea lions, turtles, and whales. Drift net fishing can kill dolphins, albatrosses and other seabirds (petrels, auks), hastening the fish stock decline and contributing to international disputes. Municipal pollution comes from the eastern United States, southern Brazil, and eastern Argentina; oil pollution in the Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico, Lake Maracaibo, Mediterranean Sea, and North Sea; and industrial waste and municipal sewage pollution in the Baltic Sea, North Sea, and Mediterranean Sea.\n\nNorth Atlantic hurricane activity has increased over past decades because of increased sea surface temperature (SST) at tropical latitudes, changes that can be attributed to either the natural Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation (AMO) or to anthropogenic climate change.\nA 2005 report indicated that the Atlantic meridional overturning circulation (AMOC) slowed down by 30% between 1957 and 2004. If the AMO were responsible for SST variability, the AMOC would have increased in strength, which is apparently not the case. Furthermore, it is clear from statistical analyses of annual tropical cyclones that these changes do not display multidecadal cyclicity. Therefore, these changes in SST must be caused by human activities.\n\nThe ocean mixed layer plays an important role heat storage over seasonal and decadal time-scales, whereas deeper layers are affected over millennia and has a heat capacity about 50 times that of the mixed layer. This heat uptake provides a time-lag for climate change but it also results in a thermal expansion of the oceans which contribute to sea-level rise. 21st century global warming will probably result in an equilibrium sea-level rise five times greater than today, whilst melting of glaciers, including that of the Greenland ice-sheet, expected to have virtually no effect during the 21st century, will probably result in a sea-level rise of 3–6 m over a millennium.\n\nOn 7 June 2006, Florida's wildlife commission voted to take the manatee off the state's endangered species list. Some environmentalists worry that this could erode safeguards for the popular sea creature.\n\nMarine pollution is a generic term for the entry into the ocean of potentially hazardous chemicals or particles. The biggest culprits are rivers and with them many agriculture fertilizer chemicals as well as livestock and human waste. The excess of oxygen-depleting chemicals leads to hypoxia and the creation of a dead zone.\n\nMarine debris, which is also known as marine litter, describes human-created waste floating in a body of water. Oceanic debris tends to accumulate at the center of gyres and coastlines, frequently washing aground where it is known as beach litter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "539170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=539170", "title": "Baltistan", "text": "Baltistan\n\nBaltistan (, also known as Baltiyul or Little Tibet (), is a mountainous region on the border of Pakistan Controlled Kashmir and Indian Controlled Kashmir in the Karakoram mountains just south of K2 (the world's second-highest mountain). Baltistan borders Gilgit to the west, Xinjiang (China) in the north, Ladakh on the southeast and the Kashmir Valley on the southwest. Its average altitude is over .\n\nPrior to 1947, Baltistan was part of the princely state of Jammu and Kashmir, having been conquered by Raja Gulab Singh's armies in 1840. Baltistan and Ladakh were administered jointly under one \"wazarat\" (district) of the state. Baltistan retained its identity in this set-up as the Skardu \"tehsil\", with Kargil and Leh being the other two \"tehsils\" of the district. After the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir acceded to India, Gilgit Scouts overthrew the Maharaja's governor in Gilgit and (with Azad Kashmir's irregular forces) captured Baltistan. The Gilgit Agency and Baltistan have been governed by Pakistan ever since. The Kashmir Valley and the Kargil and Leh \"tehsils\" were retained by India. A small portion of Baltistan, including the village of Turtuk in the Nubra Valley, was incorporated into Ladakh after the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971.\n\nThe region is inhabited primarily by Balti people of Tibetan descent. Millennia-old Tibetan culture, customs, norms, language and scripts still exist, although the vast majority of the population follows Islam. Baltistan is strategically significant to Pakistan and India; the Kargil and Siachen Wars were fought there. The region is the setting for Greg Mortenson's book, \"Three Cups of Tea\".\n\nThe 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica characterises Baltistan as the western extremity of Tibet, whose natural limits are the Indus river from its abrupt southward bend around the map point and the mountains to the north and west. These features separate a comparatively peaceful Tibetan population from the fiercer Indo-Aryan tribes to the west. Muslim writers around the 16th century speak of Baltistan as the \"Little Tibet\", and of Ladakh as the \"Great Tibet\", emphasising their ethnological similarity. According to Ahmad Hassan Dani, Baltistan spreads upwards from the Indus river and is separated from Ladakh by the Siachen glacier. It includes the Indus valley and the lower valley of the Shyok river.\n\nBaltistan is a rocky mass of lofty mountains, the prevailing formation being gneiss. In the north is the Baltoro Glacier, the largest out of the arctic regions, long, contained between two ridges whose highest peaks to the south are and to the north .\n\nThe Indus river runs in a narrow gorge, widening after receiving the Shyok river at . It then forms a 20-mile crescent-shaped plain varying between 1 mile and 5 miles wide. The main inhabitable valleys of Kharmang Khaplu, Skardu and Roundu are along the routes of these rivers.\n\n°Although under Indian control since 1971, geographically, the Turtuk part of Shyok Valley, is part of Baltistan region.\n\nFor centuries, Baltistan consisted of small, independent valley states connected by the blood relationships of its rulers (\"rajas\"), trade, common beliefs and cultural and linguistic bonds. The states were subjugated by the Dogra rulers of Kashmir during the 19th century. \nOn 29 August 2009 the government of Pakistan announced the creation of Gilgit–Baltistan, a provincial autonomous region with Gilgit as its capital and Skardu its largest city.\n\nBaltistan was known as Little Tibet, and the name was extended to include Ladakh. Ladakh later became known as Great Tibet. Locally, Baltistan is known as \"Baltiyul\" and Ladakh and Baltistan are known as Maryul (\"red country\").\n\nToday, the people of Kharmang and Western Khaplu have Tibetan features and those in Skardu, Shigar and the eastern villages of Khaplu are Dards. It was believed that the Balti people were in the sphere of influence of Zhangzhung. Baltistan was controlled by the Tibetan king Songtsen Gampo during the seventh century AD. Culturally influenced by Tibet, the Bon and animist Baltis began to adopt Tibetan Buddhism. Religious artifacts such as \"gompas\" and \"stupas\" were built, and lamas played an important role in Balti life. During the 14th century, Muslim scholars from Kashmir crossed Baltistan’s mountainous terrain to spread Islam.\nThe Kharmang came under the control of the Namgyal royal family and developed a close relationship with Ladakh when the \"raja\" of Ladakh, Jamyang Mangyal, attacked the principalities in Kargil. Mangyal annihilated the Skardu garrison at Kharbu and put to the sword a number of petty Muslim rulers in the principalities of Purik (Kargil). Ali Sher Khan Anchan, \"raja\" of Khaplu and Shigar, left with a strong army via Marol. Passing the Laddakhi army, he occupied Leh (the capital of Ladakh) and the \"raja\" of Ladakh was taken prisoner.\n\nAli Sher Khan Anchan included Gilgit and Chitral in his kingdom of Baltistan, reportedly a flourishing country. The valley from Khepchne to Kachura was flat and fertile, with abundant fruit trees; the sandy desert now extending from Sundus to Skardu Airport was a prosperous town. Skardu had hardly recovered from the shock of the death of Anchan when it was flooded. In 1845, the area was seized by the Dogras.\n\nSkardu has several tourist resorts and many natural features, including plains, mountains and mountain-valley lakes. The Deosai plain, Satpara Lake and Basho also host tourists. North of Skardu, the Shigar Valley offers plains, hiking tracks, peaks and campsites. Other valleys in Baltistan region are Khaplu, Rondu, Kachura Lake and Kharmang.\n\nBaltistan is a rocky wilderness of around , with the largest cluster of mountains in the world and the biggest glaciers outside the polar regions. The Himalayas advance into this region from India, Tibet and Nepal, and north of them are the Karakoram range. Both ranges run northwest, separated by the Indus River. Along the Indus and its tributaries are many valleys. Glaciers include Baltoro Glacier, Biafo Glacier, Siachen Glacier, Trango Glacier and Godwin-Austen Glacier.\n\nBaltistan is home to more than 20 peaks of over , including K2 (the second-highest mountain on earth. Other well-known peaks include Masherbrum (also known as K1), Broad Peak, Hidden Peak, Gasherbrum II, Gasherbrum IV and Chogolisa (in the Khaplu Valley). The following peaks have been scaled:\n\nThe region has a population of about 322,000. It is a blend of ethnic groups, predominantly Tibetans, Baltis and Monpas. A few Kashmiris settled in Skardu, practicing agriculture and woodcraft. The Yabgo family of Khaplu were from Yarkant County, China.\n\nBefore the arrival of Islam, Tibetan Buddhism and Bön (to a lesser extent) were the main religions in Baltistan. Buddhism can be traced back to before the formation of the Tibetan Empire in the region during the seventh century. The region has a number of surviving Buddhist archaeological sites. These include the Manthal Buddha Rock, a rock relief of the Buddha at the edge of the village (near Skardu) and the Sacred Rock of Hunza. Nearby are former sites of Buddhist shelters.\n\nIslam was brought to Baltistan by Sufi missionaries during the 16th and 17th centuries, and most of the population converted to Noorbakshia Islam. The scholars were followers of the Kubrawiya Sufi order. Most Noorbakhshi Muslims live in Ghanche and Shigar districts, and 30 percent live in the Skardu district.\n\nBaltistan has been called a living museum for wildlife. Deosai National Park, in the southern part of the region, is habitat for predators since it has an abundant prey population. Domestic animals include yaks (including hybrid yaks), cattle, sheep, goats, horses and donkeys. Wild animals include ibex, markhor, musk deer, snow leopards, brown and black bears, jackals, foxes, wolves and marmots.\n\nAccording to Balti folklore, Mughal princess Gul Khatoon (known in Baltistan as Mindoq Gialmo—Flower Queen) brought musicians and artisans with her into the region and they propagated Mughal music and art under her patronage. Musical instruments such as the \"surnai\", \"karnai\", \"dhol\" and \"chang\" were introduced into Baltistan.\n\nClassical and other dances are classified as sword dances, \"broqchhos\" and Yakkha and \"ghazal\" dances. \"Chhogho Prasul\" commemorates a victory by the Maqpon \"rajas\". As a mark of respect, the musician who plays the drum (\"dang\") plays for a long time. A Maqpon princess would occasionally dance to this tune. \"Gasho-Pa\", also known as \"Ghbus-La-Khorba\", is a sword dance associated with the Gasho Dynasty of Purik (Kargil). \"Sneopa\", the marriage-procession dance by \"pachones\" (twelve \"wazirs\" who accompany the bride), is performed at the marriage of a \"raja\".\n\nBalti architecture has Tibetan and Mughul influences, and its monastic architecture reflects the Buddhist imprint left on the region. Buddhist-style wall paintings can be seen in forts and Noorbakhshi \"khanqahs\", including Chaqchan Mosque in Khaplu, Amburik Mosque in Shigar, Khanqah e Muallah Shigar, Khaplu Fort, Shigar Fort and Skardu Fort.\n\nPolo is popular in Baltistan, and is indigenous to the Karakoram. Maqpon ruler Ali Sher Khan Anchan introduced the game to other valleys during his conquests beyond Gilgit and Chitral.\n\nThe Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation has radio and television stations in Khaplu that broadcast local programs, and there are a handful of private news outlets. The \"Daily K2\" is an Urdu newspaper published in Skardu serving Gilgit-Baltistan for long time, and it is the pioneer of print media in Gilgit Baltisatn. \"Bad-e-Shimal\" claims the largest daily circulation in Gilgit and Baltistan. \"Nawa-e-Sufia\" is a monthly magazine covering Baltistan's Nurbakshi sect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33156811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33156811", "title": "Brussels Periphery", "text": "Brussels Periphery\n\nThe Brussels Periphery (, i.e. the \"Brussels Rim\", or \"Vlaamse Rand\", i.e. the \"Flemish Rim\", or just \"De Rand\", \"the Rim\"; ) refers to 19 Flemish municipalities that encircle the Brussels-Capital Region. The Brussels Region is an enclave of the province of Flemish Brabant.\n\nMany of these municipalities are essentially suburbs of Brussels. Due to their proximity to Brussels, they have been urbanised and their housing prices are high. As a consequence, a lot of well-paid people working in e.g. EU institutions reside here. Another issue, very sensitive in Belgian politics, is the francisation of this area. These municipalities all have Dutch as their sole official language, although six municipalities also offer services (known as language facilities) for French-speaking inhabitants, namely Drogenbos, Kraainem, Linkebeek, Sint-Genesius-Rode, Wemmel and Wezembeek-Oppem. Other municipalities include Asse, Beersel, Dilbeek, Grimbergen, Hoeilaart, Machelen, Meise, Merchtem, Overijse, Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, Tervuren, Vilvoorde and Zaventem.\n\nEach year, \"De Gordel\" (\"the belt\"), a family walking and cycling event, is organised in this area as a symbolic affirmation that the municipalities involved are part of Flanders.\n\n"}
{"id": "22363003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22363003", "title": "Colahan Seamount", "text": "Colahan Seamount\n\nColahan Seamount is a seamount lying within the Hawaiian-Emperor seamount chain in the northern Pacific Ocean. It erupted 37-40 million years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "4187901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4187901", "title": "Dera", "text": "Dera\n\nDera, Dero, Daro, Dhoro, Dahar or Dehra is a Pashto, Balochi, Sindhi, Gujarati, Kutchi, Saraiki, Punjabi, and Dogri-language word meaning \"camp\", mound or settlement. In Punjabi, it is usually used as a place where men meet and socialize in the village.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1676497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1676497", "title": "Dubrava, Zagreb", "text": "Dubrava, Zagreb\n\nDubrava is the district of Zagreb, Croatia. It is located in the northeastern part of the city and divided by the Dubrava Avenue into two administrative areas:\n\nThe name comes from a Slavic toponym for oak forests. The species of oak that grows in this area is \"Quercus robur\" L.\n\nIn its earliest days Dubrava was no more than a village, consisting of a couple of houses and gardens. It slowly grew, mostly because of intensive settling of people from all over Croatia to the city of Zagreb and surrounding areas. By the 1930s Dubrava had over hundred inhabitants and was connected with Zagreb via road. When World War II began, Dubrava already had electrical power and 250 inhabitants. During the war it was a partisan base due to its relative distance from other major cities and simultaneous closeness to Zagreb, making it an ideal place from which partisans could operate within Zagreb itself.\n\nAs the war progressed, the partisans intensified their activities in Dubrava. Due to the increasing successes of the resistance in Dubrava, the occupation forces were army to occupy Dubrava, where they murdered 13 partisan supporters in December 1944. Following the liberation of Yugoslavia, these people were declared national heroes and several monuments were built in their honor in the Park of December Victims and on the corner of the Konjščinska Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "9334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9334", "title": "Ecuador", "text": "Ecuador\n\nEcuador ( , ) (), officially the Republic of Ecuador (, which literally translates as \"Republic of the Equator\"; ), is a country in northwestern South America, bordered by Colombia on the north, Peru on the east and south, and the Pacific Ocean to the west. Ecuador also includes the Galápagos Islands in the Pacific, about west of the mainland. The capital city is Quito, while the largest city is Guayaquil.\n\nWhat is now Ecuador was home to a variety of Amerindian groups that were gradually incorporated into the Inca Empire during the 15th century. The territory was colonized by Spain during the 16th century, achieving independence in 1820 as part of Gran Colombia, from which it emerged as its own sovereign state in 1830. The legacy of both empires is reflected in Ecuador's ethnically diverse population, with most of its /1e6 round 1 million people being mestizos, followed by large minorities of European, Amerindian, and African descendants. Spanish is the official language and is spoken by a majority of the population, though 13 Amerindian languages are also recognized, including Quichua and Shuar.\n\nThe sovereign state of Ecuador is a middle-income representative democratic republic with a developing economy that is highly dependent on commodities, namely petroleum and agricultural products. It is governed as a democratic presidential republic. One of 17 megadiverse countries in the world, Ecuador hosts many endemic plants and animals, such as those of the Galápagos Islands. In recognition of its unique ecological heritage, the new constitution of 2008 is the first in the world to recognize legally enforceable Rights of Nature, or ecosystem rights.\n\nVarious peoples had settled in the area of the future Ecuador before the arrival of the Incas. The archeological evidence suggests that the Paleo-Indians' first dispersal into the Americas occurred near the end of the last glacial period, around 16,500–13,000 years ago. The first Indians who reached Ecuador may have journeyed by land from North and Central America or by boat down the Pacific Ocean coastline. Much later migrations to Ecuador may have come via the Amazon tributaries, others descended from northern South America, and others ascended from the southern part of South America through the Andes. They developed different languages while emerging as unique ethnic groups.\n\nEven though their languages were unrelated, these groups developed similar groups of cultures, each based in different environments. The people of the coast developed a fishing, hunting, and gathering culture; the people of the highland Andes developed a sedentary agricultural way of life; and the people of the Amazon basin developed a nomadic hunting-and-gathering mode of existence.\n\nOver time these groups began to interact and intermingle with each other so that groups of families in one area became one community or tribe, with a similar language and culture. Many civilizations arose in Ecuador, such as the Valdivia Culture and Machalilla Culture on the coast, the Quitus (near present-day Quito), and the Cañari (near present-day Cuenca). Each civilization developed its own distinctive architecture, pottery, and religious interests.\n\nIn the highland Andes mountains, where life was more sedentary, groups of tribes cooperated and formed villages; thus the first nations based on agricultural resources and the domestication of animals formed. Eventually, through wars and marriage alliances of their leaders, a group of nations formed confederations. One region consolidated under a confederation called the Shyris, which exercised organized trading and bartering between the different regions. Its political and military power came under the rule of the Duchicela blood-line.\n\nWhen the Incas arrived, they found that these confederations were so developed that it took the Incas two generations of rulers—Topa Inca Yupanqui and Huayna Capac—to absorb them into the Inca Empire. The native confederations that gave them the most problems were deported to distant areas of Peru, Bolivia, and north Argentina. Similarly, a number of loyal Inca subjects from Peru and Bolivia were brought to Ecuador to prevent rebellion. Thus, the region of highland Ecuador became part of the Inca Empire in 1463 sharing the same language.\n\nIn contrast, when the Incas made incursions into coastal Ecuador and the eastern Amazon jungles of Ecuador, they found both the environment and indigenous people more hostile. Moreover, when the Incas tried to subdue them, these indigenous people withdrew to the interior and resorted to guerrilla tactics. As a result, Inca expansion into the Amazon basin and the Pacific coast of Ecuador was hampered. The indigenous people of the Amazon jungle and coastal Ecuador remained relatively autonomous until the Spanish soldiers and missionaries arrived in force. The Amazonian people and the Cayapas of Coastal Ecuador were the only groups to resist Inca and Spanish domination, maintaining their language and culture well into the 21st century.\n\nBefore the arrival of the Spaniards, the Inca Empire was involved in a civil war. The untimely death of both the heir Ninan Cuchi and the Emperor Huayna Capac, from a European disease that spread into Ecuador, created a power vacuum between two factions. The northern faction headed by Atahualpa claims that Huayna Capac gave a verbal decree before his death about how the empire should be divided. He gave the territories pertaining to present-day Ecuador and northern Peru to his favorite son Atahualpa, who was to rule from Quito; and he gave the rest to Huáscar, who was to rule from Cuzco. He willed that his heart be buried in Quito, his favorite city, and the rest of his body be buried with his ancestors in Cuzco.\n\nHuáscar did not recognize his father's will, since it did not follow Inca traditions of naming an Inca through the priests. Huáscar ordered Atahualpa to attend their father's burial in Cuzco and pay homage to him as the new Inca ruler. Atahualpa, with a large number of his father's veteran soldiers, decided to ignore Huáscar, and a civil war ensued. A number of bloody battles took place until finally Huáscar was captured. Atahualpa marched south to Cuzco and massacred the royal family associated with his brother.\n\nA small band of Spaniards headed by Francisco Pizarro landed in Tumbez and marched over the Andes Mountains until they reached Cajamarca, where the new Inca Atahualpa was to hold an interview with them. Valverde, the priest, tried to convince Atahualpa that he should join the Catholic Church and declare himself a vassal of Spain. This infuriated Atahualpa so much that he threw the Bible to the ground. At this point the enraged Spaniards, with orders from Valverde, attacked and massacred unarmed escorts of the Inca and captured Atahualpa. Pizarro promised to release Atahualpa if he made good his promise of filling a room full of gold. But, after a mock trial, the Spaniards executed Atahualpa by strangulation.\n\nNew infectious diseases, endemic to the Europeans, caused high fatalities among the Amerindian population during the first decades of Spanish rule, as they had no immunity. At the same time, the natives were forced into the \"encomienda\" labor system for the Spanish. In 1563, Quito became the seat of a real audiencia (administrative district) of Spain and part of the Viceroyalty of Peru and later the Viceroyalty of New Granada.\n\nAfter nearly 300 years of Spanish rule, Quito was still a small city numbering 10,000 inhabitants. On August 10, 1809, the city's \"criollos\" called for independence from Spain (first among the peoples of Latin America). They were led by Juan Pío Montúfar, Quiroga, Salinas, and Bishop Cuero y Caicedo. Quito's nickname, \"Luz de América\" (\"Light of America\"), is based on its leading role in trying to secure an independent, local government. Although the new government lasted no more than two months, it had important repercussions and was an inspiration for the independence movement of the rest of Spanish America. August 10 is now celebrated as Independence Day, a national holiday.\n\nOn October 9, 1820, Guayaquil became the first city in Ecuador to gain its independence from Spain. The people were very happy about the independence and celebrated, which is now Ecuador's independence day, officially on May 24, 1822. The rest of Ecuador gained its independence after Antonio José de Sucre defeated the Spanish Royalist forces at the Battle of Pichincha, near Quito. Following the battle, Ecuador joined Simón Bolívar's Republic of Gran Colombia, also including modern-day Colombia, Venezuela and Panama. In 1830 Ecuador separated from Gran Colombia and became an independent republic.\n\nThe 19th century was marked by instability for Ecuador with a rapid succession of rulers. The first president of Ecuador was the Venezuelan-born Juan José Flores, who was ultimately deposed, followed by several authoritarian leaders, such as Vicente Rocafuerte; José Joaquín de Olmedo; José María Urbina; Diego Noboa; Pedro José de Arteta; Manuel de Ascásubi; and Flores's own son, Antonio Flores Jijón, among others. The conservative Gabriel Garcia Moreno unified the country in the 1860s with the support of the Roman Catholic Church. In the late 19th century, world demand for cocoa tied the economy to commodity exports and led to migrations from the highlands to the agricultural frontier on the coast.\n\nEcuador abolished slavery and freed its black slaves in 1851.\n\nThe Liberal Revolution of 1895 under Eloy Alfaro reduced the power of the clergy and the conservative land owners. This liberal wing retained power until the military \"Julian Revolution\" of 1925. The 1930s and 1940s were marked by instability and emergence of populist politicians, such as five-time President José María Velasco Ibarra.\n\nSince Ecuador's separation from Colombia in May 13, 1830, its first President, General Juan José Flores, laid claim to the territory that was called the Real Audiencia of Quito, also referred to as the Presidencia of Quito. He supported his claims with Spanish Royal decrees or \"Real Cedulas\", that delineated the borders of Spain's former overseas colonies. In the case of Ecuador, Flores-based Ecuador's \"de jure\" claims on the following cedulas - Real Cedula of 1563, 1739, and 1740; with modifications in the Amazon Basin and Andes Mountains that were introduced through the Treaty of Guayaquil (1829) which Peru reluctantly signed, after the overwhelmingly outnumbered Gran Colombian force led by Antonio José de Sucre defeated President and General La Mar's Peruvian invasion force in the Battle of Tarqui. In addition, Ecuador's eastern border with the Portuguese colony of Brazil in the Amazon Basin was modified before the wars of Independence by the First Treaty of San Ildefonso (1777) between the Spanish Empire and the Portuguese Empire. Moreover, to add legitimacy to his claims, on February 16, 1840, Flores signed a treaty with Spain, whereby Flores convinced Spain to officially recognize Ecuadorian independence and its sole rights to colonial titles over Spain's former colonial territory known anciently to Spain as the Kingdom and Presidency of Quito.\n\nEcuador during its long and turbulent history has lost most of its contested territories to each of its more powerful neighbors, such as Colombia in 1832 and 1916, Brazil in 1904 through a series of peaceful treaties, and Peru after a short war in which the Protocol of Rio de Janeiro was signed in 1942.\n\nDuring the struggle for independence, before Peru or Ecuador became independent nations, a few areas of the former Vice Royalty of New Granada - Guayaquil, Tumbez, and Jaén - declared themselves independent from Spain. A few months later, a part of the Peruvian liberation army of San Martin decided to occupy the independent cities of Tumbez and Jaén with the intention of using these towns as springboards to occupy the independent city of Guayaquil and then to liberate the rest of the Audiencia de Quito (Ecuador). It was common knowledge among the top officers of the liberation army from the south that their leader San Martin wished to liberate present-day Ecuador and add it to the future republic of Peru, since it had been part of the Inca Empire before the Spaniards conquered it.\n\nHowever, Bolívar's intention was to form a new republic known as the Gran Colombia, out of the liberated Spanish territory of New Granada which consisted of Colombia, Venezuela, and Ecuador. San Martin's plans were thwarted when Bolívar, with the help of Marshal Antonio José de Sucre and the Gran Colombian liberation force, descended from the Andes mountains and occupied Guayaquil; they also annexed the newly liberated Audiencia de Quito to the Republic of Gran Colombia. This happened a few days before San Martin's Peruvian forces could arrive and occupy Guayaquil, with the intention of annexing Guayaquil to the rest of Audiencia of Quito (Ecuador) and to the future republic of Peru. Historic documents repeatedly stated that San Martin told Bolivar he came to Guayaquil to liberate the land of the Incas from Spain. Bolivar countered by sending a message from Guayaquil welcoming San Martin and his troops to Colombian soil.\n\nIn the south, Ecuador had \"de jure\" claims to a small piece of land beside the Pacific Ocean known as Tumbes which lay between the Zarumilla and Tumbes rivers. In Ecuador's southern Andes Mountain region where the Marañon cuts across, Ecuador had \"de jure\" claims to an area it called Jaén de Bracamoros. These areas were included as part of the territory of Gran Colombia by Bolivar in December 17, 1819, during the Congress of Angostura when the Republic of Gran Colombia was created. Tumbes declared itself independent from Spain on January 17, 1821, and Jaen de Bracamoros on June 17, 1821, without any outside help from revolutionary armies. However, that same year, 1821, Peruvian forces participating in the Trujillo revolution occupied both Jaen and Tumbes. Some Peruvian generals, without any legal titles backing them up and with Ecuador still federated with the Gran Colombia, had the desire to annex Ecuador to the Republic of Peru at the expense of the Gran Colombia, feeling that Ecuador was once part of the Inca Empire.\n\nOn July 28, 1821, Peruvian independence was proclaimed in Lima by the Liberator San Martin and Tumbes and Jaen which were included as part of the revolution of Trujillo by the Peruvian occupying force, had the whole region swear allegiance to the new Peruvian flag and incorporated itself into Peru, even though Peru was not completely liberated from Spain. After Peru was completely liberated from Spain by the patriot armies led by Bolivar and Antonio Jose de Sucre at the Battle of Ayacucho dated December 9, 1824, there was a strong desire by some Peruvians to resurrect the Inca Empire and to include Bolivia and Ecuador. One of these Peruvian Generals was the Ecuadorian-born José de La Mar, who became one of Peru's presidents after Bolivar resigned as dictator of Peru and returned to Colombia. Gran Colombia had always protested Peru for the return of Jaen and Tumbes for almost a decade, then finally Bolivar after long and futile discussion over the return of Jaen, Tumbes, and part of Mainas, declared war. President and General José de La Mar, who was born in Ecuador, believing his opportunity had come to annex the District of Ecuador to Peru, personally, with a Peruvian force, invaded and occupied Guayaquil and a few cities in the Loja region of southern Ecuador on November 28, 1828.\n\nThe war ended when a triumphant heavily outnumbered southern Gran Colombian army at Battle of Tarqui dated February 27, 1829, led by Antonio José de Sucre, defeated the Peruvian invasion force led by President La Mar. This defeat led to the signing of the Treaty of Guayaquil dated September 22, 1829, whereby Peru and its Congress recognized Gran Colombian rights over Tumbes, Jaen, and Maynas. Through protocolized meetings between representatives of Peru and Gran Colombia, the border was set as Tumbes river in the west and in the east the Maranon and Amazon rivers were to be followed toward Brazil as the most natural borders between them. However, what was pending was whether the new border around the Jaen region should follow the Chinchipe river or the Huancabamba river. According to the peace negotiations Peru agreed to return Guayaquil, Tumbez, and Jaén; despite this, Peru returned Guayaquil, but failed to return Tumbes and Jaén, alleging that it was not obligated to follow the agreements, since the Gran Colombia ceased to exist when it divided itself into three different nations - Ecuador, Colombia, and Venezuela.\n\nThe Central District of the Gran Colombia, known as Cundinamarca or New Granada (modern Colombia) with its capital in Bogota, did not recognize the separation of the Southern District of the Gran Colombia, with its capital in Quito, from the Gran Colombian federation on May 13, 1830. After Ecuador's separation, the Department of Cauca voluntarily decided to unite itself with Ecuador due to instability in the central government of Bogota. President Juan José Flores with the approval of the Ecuadorian congress annexed the Department of Cauca on December 20, 1830, since the government of Cauca had called for union with the District of the South as far back as April 1830. Moreover, the Cauca region throughout its long history had very strong economic and cultural ties with the people of Ecuador. Also, the Cauca region which included such cities as Pasto, Popayán, and Buenaventura had always been dependent on the Presidencia or Audiencia of Quito.\n\nFruitless negotiations continued between the governments of Bogotá and Quito, where the government of Bogotá did not recognize the separation of Ecuador or that of Cauca from the Gran Colombia until war broke out in May 1832. In five months, New Granada defeated Ecuador due to the fact that the majority of the Ecuadorian Armed Forces were composed of rebellious angry unpaid veterans from Venezuela and Colombia that did not want to fight against their fellow countrymen. Seeing that his officers were rebelling, mutinying, and changing sides, President Flores had no option but to reluctantly make peace with New Granada. The Treaty of Pasto of 1832 was signed by which the Department of Cauca was turned over to New Granada (modern Colombia), the government of Bogotá recognized Ecuador as an independent country and the border was to follow the Ley de División Territorial de la República de Colombia (Law of the Division of Territory of the Gran Colombia) passed on June 25, 1824. This law set the border at the river Carchi and the eastern border that stretched to Brazil at the Caquetá river. Later, Ecuador contended that the Republic of Colombia, while reorganizing its government, unlawfully made its eastern border provisional and that Colombia extended its claims south to the Napo River because it said that the Government of Popayán extended its control all the way to the Napo River.\n\nWhen Ecuador seceded from the Gran Colombia, Peru decided not to follow the treaty of Guayaquil of 1829 or the protocoled agreements made. Peru contested Ecuador's claims with the newly discovered \"Real Cedula\" of 1802, by which Peru claims the King of Spain had transferred these lands from the Viceroyalty of New Granada to the Viceroyalty of Peru. During colonial times this was to halt the ever-expanding Portuguese settlements into Spanish domains, which were left vacant and in disorder after the expulsion of Jesuit missionaries from their bases along the Amazon Basin. Ecuador countered by labeling the Cedula of 1802 an ecclesiastical instrument, which had nothing to do with political borders. Peru began its de facto occupation of disputed Amazonian territories, after it signed a secret 1851 peace treaty in favor of Brazil. This treaty disregarded Spanish rights that were confirmed during colonial times by a Spanish-Portuguese treaty over the Amazon regarding territories held by illegal Portuguese settlers.\n\nPeru began occupying the defenseless missionary villages in the Mainas or Maynas region which it began calling Loreto with its capital in Iquitos. During its negotiations with Brazil, Peru stated that based on the royal cedula of 1802, it claimed Amazonian Basin territories up to Caqueta River in the north and toward the Andes Mountain range, depriving Ecuador and Colombia of all their claims to the Amazon Basin. Colombia protested stating that its claims extended south toward the Napo and Amazon Rivers. Ecuador protested that it claimed the Amazon Basin between the Caqueta river and the Marañon-Amazon river. Peru ignored these protests and created the Department of Loreto in 1853 with its capital in Iquitos which it had recently invaded and systematically began to occupy using the river systems in all the territories claimed by both Colombia and Ecuador. Peru briefly occupied Guayaquil again in 1860, since Peru thought that Ecuador was selling some of the disputed land for development to British bond holders, but returned Guayaquil after a few months. The border dispute was then submitted to Spain for arbitration from 1880 to 1910, but to no avail.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century Ecuador made an effort to peacefully define its eastern Amazonian borders with its neighbours through negotiation. On May 6, 1904, Ecuador signed the Tobar-Rio Branco Treaty recognizing Brazil's claims to the Amazon in recognition of Ecuador's claim to be an Amazonian country to counter Peru's earlier Treaty with Brazil back in October 23, 1851. Then after a few meetings with the Colombian government's representatives an agreement was reached and the Muñoz Vernaza-Suarez Treaty was signed July 15, 1916, in which Colombian rights to the Putumayo river were recognized as well as Ecuador's rights to the Napo river and the new border was a line that ran midpoint between those two rivers. In this way Ecuador gave up the claims it had to the Amazonian territories between the Caquetá River and Napo River to Colombia, thus cutting itself off from Brazil. Later a brief war erupted between Colombia and Peru, over Peru's claims to the Caquetá region, which ended with the Peru reluctantly signing the Salomon-Lozano Treaty on March 24, 1922. Ecuador protested this secret treaty, since Colombia gave away Ecuadorian claimed land to Peru that Ecuador had given to Colombia in 1916.\n\nIn July 21, 1924 the Ponce-Castro Oyanguren Protocol was signed between Ecuador and Peru where both agreed to hold direct negotiations and to resolve the dispute in an equitable manner and to submit the differing points of the dispute to the United States for arbitration. Negotiations between the Ecuadorian and Peruvian representatives began in Washington on September 30, 1935. These negotiations were long and tiresome. Both sides logically presented their cases, but no one seemed to give up their claims. Then on February 6, 1937, Ecuador presented a transactional line which Peru rejected the next day. The negotiations turned into intense arguments during the next 7 months and finally on September 29, 1937 the Peruvian representatives decided to break off the negotiations without submitting the dispute to arbitration because the direct negotiations were going nowhere.\n\nFour years later in 1941, amid fast-growing tensions within disputed territories around the Zarumilla River, war broke out with Peru. Peru claimed that Ecuador's military presence in Peruvian-claimed territory was an invasion; Ecuador, for its part, claimed that Peru had recently invaded Ecuador around the Zarumilla River and that Peru since Ecuador's independence from Spain has systematically occupied Tumbez, Jaen, and most of the disputed territories in the Amazonian Basin between the Putomayo and Marañon Rivers. In July 1941, troops were mobilized in both countries. Peru had an army of 11,681 troops who faced a poorly supplied and inadequately armed Ecuadorian force of 2,300, of which only 1,300 were deployed in the southern provinces. Hostilities erupted on July 5, 1941, when Peruvian forces crossed the Zarumilla river at several locations, testing the strength and resolve of the Ecuadorian border troops. Finally, on July 23, 1941, the Peruvians launched a major invasion, crossing the Zarumilla river in force and advancing into the Ecuadorian province of El Oro.\n\nDuring the course of the Ecuadorian–Peruvian War, Peru gained control over part of the disputed territory and some parts of the province of El Oro, and some parts of the province of Loja, demanding that the Ecuadorian government give up its territorial claims. The Peruvian Navy blocked the port of Guayaquil, almost cutting all supplies to the Ecuadorian troops. After a few weeks of war and under pressure by the United States and several Latin American nations, all fighting came to a stop. Ecuador and Peru came to an accord formalized in the Rio Protocol, signed on January 29, 1942, in favor of hemispheric unity against the Axis Powers in World War II favouring Peru with the territory they occupied at the time the war came to an end.\n\nThe 1944 Glorious May Revolution followed a military-civilian rebellion and a subsequent civic strike which successfully removed Carlos Arroyo del Río as a dictator from Ecuador's government. However, a post-Second World War recession and popular unrest led to a return to populist politics and domestic military interventions in the 1960s, while foreign companies developed oil resources in the Ecuadorian Amazon. In 1972, construction of the Andean pipeline was completed. The pipeline brought oil from the east side of the Andes to the coast, making Ecuador South America's second largest oil exporter. The pipeline in southern Ecuador did nothing to resolve tensions between Ecuador and Peru, however.\n\nThe Rio Protocol failed to precisely resolve the border along a little river in the remote \"Cordillera del Cóndor\" region in southern Ecuador. This caused a long-simmering dispute between Ecuador and Peru, which ultimately led to fighting between the two countries; first a border skirmish in January–February 1981 known as the Paquisha Incident, and ultimately full-scale warfare in January 1995 where the Ecuadorian military shot down Peruvian aircraft and helicopters and Peruvian infantry marched into southern Ecuador. Each country blamed the other for the onset of hostilities, known as the Cenepa War. Sixto Durán Ballén, the Ecuadorian president, famously declared that he would not give up a single centimeter of Ecuador. Popular sentiment in Ecuador became strongly nationalistic against Peru: graffiti could be seen on the walls of Quito referring to Peru as the \"Cain de Latinoamérica\", a reference to the murder of Abel by his brother Cain in the Book of Genesis.\n\nEcuador and Peru signed the Brasilia Presidential Act peace agreement on October 26, 1998, which ended hostilities, and effectively put an end to the Western Hemisphere's longest running territorial dispute. The Guarantors of the Rio Protocol (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and the United States of America) ruled that the border of the undelineated zone was to be set at the line of the \"Cordillera del Cóndor\". While Ecuador had to give up its decades-old territorial claims to the eastern slopes of the Cordillera, as well as to the entire western area of Cenepa headwaters, Peru was compelled to give to Ecuador, in perpetual lease but without sovereignty, of its territory, in the area where the Ecuadorian base of Tiwinza – focal point of the war – had been located within Peruvian soil and which the Ecuadorian Army held during the conflict. The final border demarcation came into effect on May 13, 1999 and the multi-national MOMEP (Military Observer Mission for Ecuador and Peru) troop deployment withdrew on June 17, 1999.\n\nIn 1972, a \"revolutionary and nationalist\" military junta overthrew the government of Velasco Ibarra. The coup d'état was led by General Guillermo Rodríguez and executed by navy commander Jorge Queirolo G. The new president exiled José María Velasco to Argentina. He remained in power until 1976, when he was removed by another military government. That military junta was led by Admiral Alfredo Poveda, who was declared chairman of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council included two other members: General Guillermo Durán Arcentales and General Luis Leoro Franco. The civil society more and more insistently called for democratic elections. Colonel Richelieu Levoyer, Government Minister, proposed and implemented a Plan to return to the constitutional system through universal elections. This plan enabled the new democratically elected president to assume the duties of the executive office.\n\nElections were held on April 29, 1979, under a new constitution. Jaime Roldós Aguilera was elected president, garnering over one million votes, the most in Ecuadorian history. He took office on August 10, as the first constitutionally elected president after nearly a decade of civilian and military dictatorships. In 1980, he founded the \"Partido Pueblo, Cambio y Democracia\" (People, Change, and Democracy Party) after withdrawing from the \"Concentración de Fuerzas Populares\" (Popular Forces Concentration) and governed until May 24, 1981, when he died along with his wife and the minister of defense, Marco Subia Martinez, when his Air Force plane crashed in heavy rain near the Peruvian border. Many people believe that he was assassinated by the CIA, given the multiple death threats leveled against him because of his reformist agenda, deaths in automobile crashes of two key witnesses before they could testify during the investigation, and the sometimes contradictory accounts of the incident.\n\nRoldos was immediately succeeded by Vice President Osvaldo Hurtado, who was followed in 1984 by León Febres Cordero from the Social Christian Party. Rodrigo Borja Cevallos of the Democratic Left (Izquierda Democrática, or ID) party won the presidency in 1988, running in the runoff election against Abdalá Bucaram (brother in law of Jaime Roldos and founder of the Ecuadorian Roldosist Party). His government was committed to improving human rights protection and carried out some reforms, notably an opening of Ecuador to foreign trade. The Borja government concluded an accord leading to the disbanding of the small terrorist group, \"¡Alfaro Vive, Carajo!\" (\"Alfaro Lives, Dammit!\"), named after Eloy Alfaro. However, continuing economic problems undermined the popularity of the ID, and opposition parties gained control of Congress in 1999.\n\nThe emergence of the Amerindian population as an active constituency has added to the democratic volatility of the country in recent years. The population has been motivated by government failures to deliver on promises of land reform, lower unemployment and provision of social services, and historical exploitation by the land-holding elite. Their movement, along with the continuing destabilizing efforts by both the elite and leftist movements, has led to a deterioration of the executive office. The populace and the other branches of government give the president very little political capital, as illustrated by the most recent removal of President Lucio Gutiérrez from office by Congress in April 2005. Vice President Alfredo Palacio took his place and remained in office until the presidential election of 2006, in which Rafael Correa gained the presidency.\n\nIn December 2008, president Correa declared Ecuador's national debt illegitimate, based on the argument that it was odious debt contracted by corrupt and despotic prior regimes. He announced that the country would default on over $3 billion worth of bonds; he then pledged to fight creditors in international courts and succeeded in reducing the price of outstanding bonds by more than 60%. He brought Ecuador into the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas in June 2009. To date, Correa's administration has succeeded in reducing the high levels of poverty and unemployment in Ecuador.\n\nThe Ecuadorian State consists of five branches of government: the \"Executive Branch\", the \"Legislative Branch\", the \"Judicial Branch\", the \"Electoral Branch\", and \"Transparency and Social Control.\"\n\nEcuador is governed by a democratically elected President, for a four-year term. The current president of Ecuador, Lenin Moreno, exercises his power from the presidential Palacio de Carondelet in Quito. The current constitution was written by the Ecuadorian Constituent Assembly elected in 2007, and was approved by referendum in 2008. Since 1936, voting is compulsory for all literate persons aged 18–65, optional for all other citizens.\n\nThe executive branch includes 23 ministries. Provincial governors and councilors (mayors, aldermen, and parish boards) are directly elected. The National Assembly of Ecuador meets throughout the year except for recesses in July and December. There are thirteen permanent committees. Members of the National Court of Justice are appointed by the National Judicial Council for nine-year terms.\n\nThe executive branch is led by the president, an office currently held by Lenin Moreno. He is accompanied by the vice-president, currently Jorge Glas, elected for four years (with the ability to be re-elected only once). As head of state and chief government official, he is responsible for public administration including the appointing of national coordinators, ministers, ministers of State and public servants. The executive branch defines foreign policy, appoints the Chancellor of the Republic, as well as ambassadors and consuls, being the ultimate authority over the Armed Forces of Ecuador, National Police of Ecuador, and appointing authorities. The acting president's wife receives the title of First Lady of Ecuador.\n\nThe legislative branch is embodied by the National Assembly, which is headquartered in the city of Quito in the Legislative Palace, and consists of 137 assemblymen, divided into ten committees and elected for a four-year term. Fifteen national constituency elected assembly, two Assembly members elected from each province and one for every 100,000 inhabitants or fraction exceeding 150,000, according to the latest national population census. In addition, statute determines the election of assembly of regions, and metropolitan districts.\n\nEcuador's judiciary has as its main body the Judicial Council, and also includes the National Court of Justice, provincial courts, and lower courts. Legal representation is made by the Judicial Council.\nThe National Court of Justice is composed of 21 judges elected for a term of nine years. Judges are renewed by thirds every three years pursuant to the Judicial Code. These are elected by the Judicial Council on the basis of opposition proceedings and merits.\nThe justice system is buttressed by the independent offices of public prosecutor and the public defender. Auxiliary organs are as follows: notaries, court auctioneers, and court receivers. Also there is a special legal regime for Amerindians.\n\nThe electoral system functions by authorities which enter only every four years or when elections or referendums occur. Its main functions are to organize, control elections, and punish the infringement of electoral rules. Its main body is the National Electoral Council, which is based in the city of Quito, and consists of seven members of the political parties most voted, enjoying complete financial and administrative autonomy. This body, along with the electoral court, forms the \"Electoral Branch\" which is one of Ecuador's five branches of government.\n\nThe Transparency and Social Control consists of the Council of Citizen Participation and Social Control, an ombudsman, the Comptroller General of the State, and the superintendents. Branch members hold office for five years. This branch is responsible for promoting transparency and control plans publicly, as well as plans to design mechanisms to combat corruption, as also designate certain authorities, and be the regulatory mechanism of accountability in the country.\n\nUN's Human Rights Council's (HRC) Universal Periodic Review (UPR) has treated the restrictions on freedom of expression and efforts to control NGOs and recommended that Ecuador should stop the criminal sanctions for the expression of opinions, and delay in implementing judicial reforms. Ecuador rejected the recommendation on decriminalization of libel.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch (HRW) President Correa has intimidated journalists and subjected them to \"public denunciation and retaliatory litigation\". The sentences to journalists have been years of imprisonment and millions of dollars of compensation, even though defendants have been pardoned. Correa has stated he was only seeking a retraction for slanderous statements.\n\nAccording to HRW, Correa's government has weakened the freedom of press and independence of the judicial system. In Ecuador's current judicial system, judges are selected in a contest of merits, rather than government appointments. However, the process of selection has been criticized as biased and subjective. In particular, the final interview is said to be given \"excessive weighing.\" Judges and prosecutors that have made decisions in favor of Correa in his lawsuits have received permanent posts, while others with better assessment grades have been rejected.\nThe laws also forbid articles and media messages that could favor or disfavor some political message or candidate. In the first half of 2012, twenty private TV or radio stations were closed down.\n\nIn July 2012 the officials warned the judges that they would be sanctioned and possibly dismissed if they allowed the citizens to appeal to the protection of their constitutional rights against the state.\n\nPeople engaging in public protests against environmental and other issues are prosecuted for \"terrorism and sabotage\", which may lead to an eight-year prison sentence.\n\nEcuador's principal foreign policy objectives have traditionally included defense of its territory from external aggression and support for the objectives of the United Nations and the OAS. Ecuador's membership in the OPEC in the 1970s and 1980s allowed Ecuadorian leaders to exercise somewhat greater foreign policy autonomy. In Antarctica, Ecuador has maintained a peaceful research station for scientific study as a member nation of the Antarctica Treaty. Ecuador has often placed great emphasis on multilateral approaches to international issues. Ecuador is a member of the United Nations (and most of its specialized agencies) and a member of many regional groups, including the Rio Group, the Latin American Economic System, the Latin American Energy Organization, the Latin American Integration Association, the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, the Andean Community of Nations, the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), and The Bank of the South (Spanish: Banco del Sur or BancoSur).\n\nThe Ecuadorian government commits itself to upholding a progressive attitude towards migration related problems, declaring its Ministry of Foreign Affairs \"Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Human Mobility\" (Spanish: \"Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores y Movilidad Humana\"). In 2017, the Ecuadorian parliament adopted a \"Law on human mobility\" . In 2018 the ministry presented a new \"Human Mobility National Plan\", based on policies aimed at promoting universal citizenship and free mobility in the international sphere; generate conditions to promote an orderly and safe migration, strengthen the protection of the rights of this population and defend its diversity, integration, and coexistence. \n\nThe International Organization for Migration lauds Ecuador as the first state to have established the promotion of the concept of universal citizenship in its constitution, aiming to promote the universal recognition and protection of the human rights of migrants. ]\n\nEcuador is divided into 24 provinces (), each with its own administrative capital:\n\nThe provinces are divided into cantons and further subdivided into parishes (\"parroquias\").\n\nRegionalization, or zoning, is the union of two or more adjoining provinces in order to decentralize the administrative functions of the capital Quito.\nIn Ecuador there are seven regions or zones, each shaped by the following provinces:\n\nQuito and Guayaquil are Metropolitan Districts. Galápagos, despite being included within Region 5, is also under a special unit.\n\nThe Ecuadorian Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas del Ecuador), consists of the Army, Air Force, and Navy and have the stated responsibility for the preservation of the integrity and national sovereignty of the national territory.\n\nThe military tradition starts in Gran Colombia, where a sizable army was stationed in Ecuador due to border disputes with Peru, which claimed territories under its political control when it was a Spanish vice-royalty. Once Gran Colombia was dissolved after the death of Simón Bolívar in 1830, Ecuador inherited the same border disputes and had the need of creating its own professional military force. So influential was the military in Ecuador in the early republican period that its first decade was under the control of General Juan Jose Flores, first president of Ecuador of Venezuelan origin. General Jose Ma. Urbina and General Robles are examples of military figures who became presidents of the country in the early republican period.\n\nDue to the continuous border disputes with Peru, finally settled in the early 2000s, and due to the ongoing problem with the Colombian guerrilla insurgency infiltrating Amazonian provinces, the Ecuadorian Armed Forces has gone through a series of changes. In 2009, the new administration at the Defense Ministry launched a deep restructuring within the forces, increasing spending budget to $1,691,776,803, an increase of 25%.\n\nThe icons of the Ecuadorian military forces are the Marshall Antonio José de Sucre and General Eloy Alfaro. The Military Academy General Eloy Alfaro (c. 1838) graduates the army officers and is located in Quito. The Ecuadorian Navy Academy (c. 1837), located in Salinas graduates the navy officers, and the Air Academy \"Cosme Rennella (c. 1920), also located in Salinas, graduates the air force officers. Other training academies for different military specialties are found across the country.\n\nEcuador has a total area of , including the Galápagos Islands. Of this, is land and water. Ecuador is bigger than Uruguay, Suriname, Guyana and French Guyana in South America.\n\nEcuador lies between latitudes 2°N and 5°S,\nbounded on the west by the Pacific Ocean, and has of coastline. It has of land boundaries, with Colombia in the north border and Peru in the east and south border. It is the westernmost country that lies on the equator.\n\nThe country has four main geographic regions:\n\nEcuador's capital is Quito, which is in the province of Pichincha in the Sierra region. Its largest city is Guayaquil, in the Guayas Province. Cotopaxi, just south of Quito, is one of the world's highest active volcanoes. The top of Mount Chimborazo (6,268 m, or 20,560 ft, above sea level), Ecuador's tallest mountain, is the most distant point from the center of the Earth on the Earth's surface because of the ellipsoid shape of the planet.\n\nThere is great variety in the climate, largely determined by altitude. It is mild year-round in the mountain valleys, with a humid subtropical climate in coastal areas and rainforest in lowlands. The Pacific coastal area has a tropical climate with a severe rainy season. The climate in the Andean highlands is temperate and relatively dry, and the Amazon basin on the eastern side of the mountains shares the climate of other rainforest zones.\n\nBecause of its location at the equator, Ecuador experiences little variation in daylight hours during the course of a year. Both sunrise and sunset occur each day at the two six o'clock hours.\n\nThe Andes is the \"watershed divisor\" between the Amazon watershed, which runs to the east, and the Pacific, including the north–south rivers Mataje, Santiago, Esmeraldas, Chone, Guayas, Jubones, and Puyango-Tumbes.\n\nAlmost all of the rivers in Ecuador form in the La Sierra region and flow east toward the Amazon River or west toward the Pacific Ocean. The rivers rise from snowmelt at the edges of the snowcapped peaks or from the abundant precipitation that falls at higher elevations. In the La Sierra region, the streams and rivers are narrow and flow rapidly over precipitous slopes. Rivers may slow and widen as they cross the hoyas yet become rapid again as they flow from the heights of the Andes to the lower elevations of the other regions. The highland rivers broaden as they enter the more level areas of the Costa and the Oriente.\nIn the Costa, the external coast has mostly intermittent rivers that are fed by constant rains from December through May and become empty riverbeds during the dry season. The few exceptions are the longer, perennial rivers that flow throughout the external coast from the internal coast and La Sierra on their way to the Pacific Ocean. The internal coast, by contrast, is crossed by perennial rivers that may flood during the rainy season, sometimes forming swamps.\n\nMajor rivers in the Oriente include the Pastaza, Napo, and Putumayo. The Pastaza is formed by the confluence of the Chambo and the Patate rivers, both of which rise in the Sierra. The Pastaza includes the Agoyan waterfall, which at is the highest waterfall in Ecuador. The Napo rises near Mount Cotopaxi and is the major river used for transport in the eastern lowlands. The Napo ranges in width from . In its upper reaches, the Napo flows rapidly until the confluence with one of its major tributaries, the Coca River, where it slows and levels off. The Putumayo forms part of the border with Colombia. All of these rivers flow into the Amazon River. The Galápagos Islands have no significant rivers. Several of the larger islands, however, have freshwater springs although they are surrounded by the Pacific Ocean.\n\nEcuador is one of seventeen megadiverse countries in the world according to Conservation International, and it has the most biodiversity per square kilometer of any nation.\n\nEcuador has 1,600 bird species (15% of the world's known bird species) in the continental area and 38 more endemic in the Galápagos. In addition to over 16,000 species of plants, the country has 106 endemic reptiles, 138 endemic amphibians, and 6,000 species of butterfly. The Galápagos Islands are well known as a region of distinct fauna, famous as the place of birth of Darwin's Theory of Evolution and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nEcuador has the first constitution to recognize the rights of nature. The protection of the nation's biodiversity is an explicit national priority as stated in the National Plan of \"Buen Vivir\", or good living, Objective 4, \"Guarantee the rights of nature\", Policy 1: \"Sustainably conserve and manage the natural heritage, including its land and marine biodiversity, which is considered a strategic sector\". As of the writing of the Plan in 2008, 19% of Ecuador's land area was in a protected area; however, the Plan also states that 32% of the land must be protected in order to truly preserve the nation's biodiversity. Current protected areas include 11 national parks, 10 wildlife refuges, 9 ecological reserves, and other areas. A program begun in 2008, Sociobosque, is preserving another 2.3% of total land area (6,295 km², or 629,500 ha) by paying private landowners or community landowners (such as Amerindian tribes) incentives to maintain their land as native ecosystems such as native forests or grasslands. Eligibility and subsidy rates for this program are determined based on the poverty in the region, the number of hectares that will be protected, and the type of ecosystem of the land to be protected, among other factors.\n\nDespite being on the UNESCO list, the Galápagos are endangered by a range of negative environmental effects, threatening the existence of this exotic ecosystem. Additionally, oil exploitation of the Amazon rainforest has led to the release of billions of gallons of untreated wastes, gas, and crude oil into the environment, contaminating ecosystems and causing detrimental health effects to Amerindian peoples.\n\nEcuador has a developing economy that is highly dependent on commodities, namely petroleum and agricultural products. The country is classified as an upper-middle-income country. Ecuador's economy is the eighth largest in Latin America and experienced an average growth of 4.6% between 2000 and 2006. From 2007 to 2012 Ecuador's GDP grew at an annual average of 4.3 percent, above the average for Latin America and the Caribbean, which was 3.5%, according to the United Nations' Economic Commission for Latin American and the Caribbean (ECLAC). Ecuador was able to maintain relatively superior growth during the crisis. In January 2009 the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE) put the 2010 growth forecast at 6.88%. In 2011 its GDP grew at 8% and ranked 3rd highest in Latin America, behind Argentina (2nd) and Panama (1st). Between 1999 and 2007, GDP doubled, reaching $65,490 million according to BCE.\nInflation rate up to January 2008 was located about 1.14%, the highest recorded in the last year, according to the government. The monthly unemployment rate remained at about 6 and 8 percent from December 2007 until September 2008; however, it went up to about 9 percent in October and dropped again in November 2008 to 8 percent. Unemployment mean annual rate for 2009 in Ecuador was 8.5% because the global economic crisis continued to affect the Latin American economies. From this point unemployment rates started a downward trend: 7.6% in 2010, 6.0% in 2011, and 4.8% in 2012.\n\nThe extreme poverty rate has declined significantly between 1999 and 2010. In 2001 it was estimated at 40% of the population, while by 2011 the figure dropped to 17.4% of the total population. This is explained to an extent by emigration and the economic stability achieved after adopting the U.S. dollar as official means of transaction (prior to 2000 the Ecuadorian \"sucre\" was prone to rampant inflation). However, starting in 2008 with the bad economic performance of the nations where most Ecuadorian emigrants work, the reduction of poverty has been realized through social spending mainly in education and health.\nOil accounts for 40% of exports and contributes to maintaining a positive trade balance. Since the late 1960s, the exploitation of oil increased production, and proven reserves are estimated at 6.51 billion barrels .\n\nThe overall trade balance for August 2012 was a surplus of almost $390 million for the first six months of 2012, a huge figure compared with that of 2007, which reached only $5.7 million; the surplus had risen by about $425 million compared to 2006. The oil trade balance positive had revenues of $3.295 million in 2008, while non-oil was negative, amounting to $2.842 million. The trade balance with the United States, Chile, the European Union, Bolivia, Peru, Brazil, and Mexico is positive. The trade balance with Argentina, Colombia, and Asia is negative.\n\nIn the agricultural sector, Ecuador is a major exporter of bananas (first place worldwide in production and export), flowers, and the seventh largest producer of cocoa. Ecuador also produces coffee, rice, potatoes, cassava (manioc, tapioca), plantains and sugarcane; cattle, sheep, pigs, beef, pork and dairy products; fish, and shrimp; and balsa wood. The country's vast resources include large amounts of timber across the country, like eucalyptus and mangroves. Pines and cedars are planted in the region of La Sierra and walnuts, rosemary, and balsa wood in the Guayas River Basin.\nThe industry is concentrated mainly in Guayaquil, the largest industrial center, and in Quito, where in recent years the industry has grown considerably. This city is also the largest business center of the country. Industrial production is directed primarily to the domestic market. Despite this, there is limited export of products produced or processed industrially. These include canned foods, liquor, jewelry, furniture, and more. A minor industrial activity is also concentrated in Cuenca. The incomes due to the tourism have been increasing during the last years because of the efforts of the Government of showing the variety of climates and the biodiversity in Ecuador.\nEcuador has negotiated bilateral treaties with other countries, besides belonging to the Andean Community of Nations, and an associate member of Mercosur. It also serves on the World Trade Organization (WTO), in addition to the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), Corporación Andina de Fomento (CAF) and other multilateral agencies. In April 2007, Ecuador paid off its debt to the IMF, thus ending an era of interventionism of the Agency in the country.\nThe public finance of Ecuador consists of the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE), the National Development Bank (BNF), the State Bank.\n\nThe Ministry of Information and Tourism was created on August 10, 1992, at the beginning of the government of Sixto Durán Ballén, who viewed tourism as a fundamental activity for the economic and social development of the peoples. Faced with the growth of the tourism sector, in June 1994, the decision was taken to separate tourism from information, so that it is exclusively dedicated to promoting and strengthening this activity.\n\nEcuador is a country with vast natural wealth. The diversity of its four regions has given rise to thousands of species of flora and fauna. It has around 1640 kinds of birds. The species of butterflies border the 4,500, the reptiles 345, the amphibians 358 and the mammals 258, among others. Not in vain, Ecuador is considered one of the 17 countries where the planet's highest biodiversity is concentrated, being also the largest country with diversity per km2 in the world. Most of its fauna and flora lives in 26 protected areas by the State. Also, it has a huge culture spectrum. Since 2007, with the government of Rafael Correa, the tourism brand \"Ecuador Ama la Vida\" has been transformed, with which the nation's tourism promotion would be sold. Focused on considering it as a country friendly and respectful of the nature, natural biodiversity and cultural diversity of the peoples. And for this, means of exploiting them are developed along with the private economy.\n\nThe country has two cities UNESCO World Heritage Sites: Quito and Cuenca, as well as two natural UNESCO World Heritage Sites: the Galapagos Islands and Sangay National Park in addition to one World Biosphere Reserve, such as the Cajas massif. Culturally, the Toquilla straw hat and the culture of the Zapara indigenous people are recognized. The most popular sites for national and foreign tourists have different nuances due to the various tourist activities offered by the country.\n\nAmong the main tourist destinations are:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe rehabilitation and reopening of the Ecuadorian railroad and use of it as a tourist attraction is one of the recent developments in transportation matters.\n\nThe roads of Ecuador in recent years have undergone important improvement. The major routes are Pan American (under enhancement from four to six lanes from Rumichaca to Ambato, the conclusion of 4 lanes on the entire stretch of Ambato and Riobamba and running via Riobamba to Loja). In the absence of the section between Loja and the border with Peru, there are the Route Espondilus and/or Ruta del Sol (oriented to travel along the Ecuadorian coastline) and the Amazon backbone (which crosses from north to south along the Ecuadorian Amazon, linking most and more major cities of it).\n\nAnother major project is developing the road Manta – Tena, the highway Guayaquil – Salinas Highway Aloag Santo Domingo, Riobamba – Macas (which crosses Sangay National Park). Other new developments include the National Unity bridge complex in Guayaquil, the bridge over the Napo river in Francisco de Orellana, the Esmeraldas River Bridge in the city of the same name, and, perhaps the most remarkable of all, the Bahia – San Vincente Bridge, being the largest on the Latin American Pacific coast.\n\nThe Mariscal Sucre International Airport in Quito and the José Joaquín de Olmedo International Airport in Guayaquil have experienced a high increase in demand and have required modernization. In the case of Guayaquil it involved a new air terminal, once considered the best in South America and the best in Latin America and in Quito where an entire new airport has been built in Tababela and was inaugurated in February 2013, with Canadian assistance. However, the main road leading from Quito city centre to the new airport will only be finished in late 2014, making current travelling from the airport to downtown Quito as long as two hours during rush hour. Quito's old city-centre airport is being turned into parkland, with some light industrial use.\n\nEcuador's population is ethnically diverse and the estimates put Ecuador's population at . The largest ethnic group () is the \"Mestizos\", who are the descendants of Spanish colonists that interbred with Amerindian peoples, and constitute about 71% of the population. The White Ecuadorians (White Latin American) account for 6.1% of the population of Ecuador and can be found throughout all of Ecuador primarily around the urban areas. Even though Ecuador's white population during its colonial era were mainly descendants from Spain, today Ecuador's white population is a result of a mixture of European immigrants, predominantly from Spain with people from Italy, France, Germany, and Switzerland who have settled in the early 20th century. Ecuador also has people of middle eastern extraction that have also joined the ranks of the white minority. These include economically well off immigrants of Lebanese and Palestinian descent, who are either Christian or Muslim (Islam in Ecuador). In addition, there is a small European Jewish (Ecuadorian Jews) population, which is based mainly in Quito and to a lesser extent in Guayaquil. Amerindians account for 7% of the current population. The mostly rural Montubio population of the coastal provinces of Ecuador, who might be classified as Pardo account for 7.4% of the population. The Afro-Ecuadorians is a minority population (7%) in Ecuador, that includes the Mulattos and \"zambos\", and are largely based in the Esmeraldas province and to a lesser degree in the predominantly Mestizo provinces of Coastal Ecuador - Guayas and Manabi. In the Highland Andes where a predominantly Mestizo, white and Amerindian population exist, the African presence is almost non-existent except for a small community in the province of Imbabura called Chota Valley.\n\nAccording to the Ecuadorian National Institute of Statistics and Census, 91.95% of the country's population have a religion, 7.94% are atheists and 0.11% are agnostics. Among the people that have a religion, 80.44% are Roman Catholic Latin Rite (see List of Roman Catholic dioceses in Ecuador), 11.30% are Evangelical Protestants, 1.29% are Jehovah's Witnesses and 6.97% other (mainly Jewish, Buddhists and Latter-day Saints).\nIn the rural parts of Ecuador, Amerindian beliefs and Catholicism are sometimes syncretized. Most festivals and annual parades are based on religious celebrations, many incorporating a mixture of rites and icons.\n\nThere is a small number of Eastern Orthodox Christians, Amerindian religions, Muslims (see Islam in Ecuador), Buddhists and Bahá'í. According to their own estimates, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accounts for about 1.4% of the population, or 211,165 members at the end of 2012. According to their own sources, in 2017 there were 92,752 Jehovah's Witnesses in the country.\n\nThe first Jews arrived in Ecuador in the 16th and 17th centuries. Most of them are Sephardic Anusim (Crypto-Jews) and many still speak Judaeo-Spanish (Ladino) language. Today the Jewish Community of Ecuador (Comunidad Judía del Ecuador) has its seat in Quito and has approximately 200 members. Nevertheless, this number is declining because young people leave the country for the United States or Israel. The Community has a Jewish Center with a synagogue, a country club, and a cemetery. It supports the \"Albert Einstein School\", where Jewish history, religion, and Hebrew classes are offered.\nThere are very small communities in Cuenca. The \"Comunidad de Culto Israelita\" reunites the Jews of Guayaquil. This community works independently from the \"Jewish Community of Ecuador\" and is composed of only 30 people.\n\nThe Ecuadorian constitution recognizes the \"pluri-nationality\" of those who want to exercise their affiliation with their native ethnic groups. Thus, in addition to \"criollos\", \"mestizos\", and Afro-Ecuadorians, some people belong to the Amerindian nations scattered in a few places in the coast, Quechua Andean villages, and the Amazonian jungle.\n\nAccording to a 2015 genealogical DNA testing, the average Ecuadorian is estimated to be 52.96% Native American, 41.77% European, and 5.26% Sub-Saharan African overall.\n\nThe majority of Ecuadorians live in the central provinces, the Andes mountains, or along the Pacific coast. The tropical forest region to the east of the mountains (El Oriente) remains sparsely populated and contains only about 3% of the population. Birth rate is 2-1 for each death. Marriages are usually from 14 and above using parental consent. About 12.4% of the population is married in the ages 15–19. Divorce rates are moderate.Population cities (2010)\nStatus According to the 2010 Census\n\nA small east Asian Latino community, estimated at 2,500, mainly consists of those of Japanese and Chinese descent, whose ancestors arrived as miners, farmhands and fishermen in the late 19th century.\n\nIn the early years of World War II, Ecuador still admitted a certain number of immigrants, and in 1939, when several South American countries refused to accept 165 Jewish refugees from Germany aboard the ship \"Koenigstein\", Ecuador granted them entry permits.\n\nIn recent years, Ecuador has grown in popularity among North American expatriates. They're drawn there by the authentic cultural experience and beautiful natural surroundings. Also, Ecuador's favorable residency options make for an easy transition for those who decide to settle there indefinitely.\n\nAnother perk that draws many expats to Ecuador is its low cost of living. Since everything from gas to groceries costs far less than in North America, it's a popular choice for those who are looking to make the most of their retirement budget.\n\nEven real estate in Ecuador is much less than its tropical counterparts. However, as more and more North Americans are discovering Ecuador's potential, property prices are beginning to rise from where they were a decade ago, particularly in the areas that are popular among expats and tourists.\n\nEcuador's mainstream culture is defined by its Hispanic \"mestizo\" majority, and, like their ancestry, it is traditionally of Spanish heritage, influenced in different degrees by Amerindian traditions and in some cases by African elements. The first and most substantial wave of modern immigration to Ecuador consisted of Spanish colonists, following the arrival of Europeans in 1499. A lower number of other Europeans and North Americans migrated to the country in the late 19th and early twentieth centuries and, in smaller numbers, Poles, Lithuanians, English, Irish, and Croats during and after the Second World War.\n\nSince African slavery was not the workforce of the Spanish colonies in the Andes Mountains, given the subjugation of the Amerindian people through proselytization and \"encomiendas\", the minority population of African descent is mostly found in the coastal northern province of Esmeraldas. This is largely owing to the 17th-century shipwreck of a slave-trading galleon off the northern coast of Ecuador. The few black African survivors swam to the shore and penetrated the then-thick jungle under the leadership of Anton, the chief of the group, where they remained as free men maintaining their original culture, not influenced by the typical elements found in other provinces of the coast or in the Andean region. A little later, freed slaves from Colombia known as \"cimarrones\" joined them. In the small Chota Valley of the province of Imbabura exists a small community of Africans among the province's predominantly mestizo population. These blacks are descendants of Africans, who were brought over from Colombia by Jesuits to work their colonial sugar plantations as slaves. As a general rule, small elements of zambos and mulattoes coexisted among the overwhelming mestizo population of coastal Ecuador throughout its history as gold miners in Loja, Zaruma, and Zamora and as shipbuilders and plantation workers around the city of Guayaquil. Today you can find a small community of Africans in the Catamayo valley of the predominantly mestizo population of Loja.\n\nEcuador's Amerindian communities are integrated into the mainstream culture to varying degrees, but some may also practice their own native cultures, particularly the more remote Amerindian communities of the Amazon basin. Spanish is spoken as the first language by more than 90% of the population and as a first or second language by more than 98%. Part of Ecuador's population can speak Amerindian languages, in some cases as a second language. Two percent of the population speak only Amerindian languages.\n\n \nMost Ecuadorians speak Spanish, though many speak Amerindian language, such as Kichwa (also spelt Quichua), which is one of the Quechuan languages and is spoken by approximately 2.5 million people in Ecuador, Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru. Other Amerindian languages spoken in Ecuador include Awapit (spoken by the Awá), A'ingae (spoken by the Cofan), Shuar Chicham (spoken by the Shuar), Achuar-Shiwiar (spoken by the Achuar and the Shiwiar), Cha'palaachi (spoken by the Chachi), Tsa'fiki (spoken by the Tsáchila), Paicoca (spoken by the Siona and Secoya), and Wao Tededeo (spoken by the Waorani). Though most features of Ecuadorian Spanish are those universal to the Spanish-speaking world, there are several idiosyncrasies.\n\nThe music of Ecuador has a long history. Pasillo is a genre of indigenous Latin music. In Ecuador it is the \"national genre of music\". Through the years, many cultures have brought their influences together to create new types of music. There are also different kinds of traditional music like albazo, pasacalle, fox incaico, tonada, capishca, Bomba (highly established in Afro-Ecuadorian societies), and so on.\nTecnocumbia and Rockola are clear examples of the influence of foreign cultures. One of the most traditional forms of dancing in Ecuador is Sanjuanito. It's originally from northern Ecuador (Otavalo-Imbabura). Sanjuanito is a type of dance music played during festivities by the mestizo and Amerindian communities. According to the Ecuadorian musicologist Segundo Luis Moreno, Sanjuanito was danced by Amerindian people during San Juan Bautista's birthday. This important date was established by the Spaniards on June 24, coincidentally the same date when Amerindian people celebrated their rituals of Inti Raymi.\n\nEcuadorian cuisine is diverse, varying with the altitude and associated agricultural conditions. Most regions in Ecuador follow the traditional three course meal of soup, a course that includes rice and a protein, and then dessert and coffee to finish. Supper is usually lighter and sometimes consists only of coffee or herbal tea with bread.\n\nIn the highland region, pork, chicken, beef, and \"cuy\" (guinea pig) are popular and are served with a variety of grains (especially rice and corn) or potatoes.\n\nIn the coastal region, seafood is very popular, with fish, shrimp, and \"ceviche\" being key parts of the diet. Generally, ceviches are served with fried plantain (chifles y patacones), popcorn, or tostado. Plantain- and peanut-based dishes are the basis of most coastal meals. Encocados (dishes that contain a coconut sauce) are also very popular. \"Churrasco\" is a staple food of the coastal region, especially Guayaquil. \"Arroz con menestra y carne asada\" (rice with beans and grilled beef) is one of the traditional dishes of Guayaquil, as is fried plantain, which is often served with it. This region is a leading producer of bananas, Cocoa beans (to make chocolate), shrimp, tilapia, mango, and passion fruit, among other products.\n\nIn the Amazon region, a dietary staple is the \"yuca\", elsewhere called cassava. Many fruits are available in this region, including bananas, tree grapes, and peach palms.\n\nEarly literature in colonial Ecuador, as in the rest of Spanish America, was influenced by the Spanish Golden Age. One of the earliest examples is Jacinto Collahuazo, an Amerindian chief of a northern village in today's Ibarra, born in the late 1600s. Despite the early repression and discrimination of the native people by the Spanish, Collahuazo learned to read and write in Castilian, but his work was written in Quechua. The use of Quipu was banned by the Spanish, and in order to preserve their work, many Inca poets had to resort to the use of the Latin alphabet to write in their native Quechua language. The history behind the Inca drama \"Ollantay\", the oldest literary piece in existence for any Amerindian language in America, shares some similarities with the work of Collahuazo. Collahuazo was imprisoned and all of his work burned. The existence of his literary work came to light many centuries later, when a crew of masons was restoring the walls of a colonial church in Quito and found a hidden manuscript. The salvaged fragment is a Spanish translation from Quechua of the \"Elegy to the Dead of Atahualpa\", a poem written by Collahuazo, which describes the sadness and impotence of the Inca people of having lost their king Atahualpa.\n\nOther early Ecuadorian writers include the Jesuits Juan Bautista Aguirre, born in Daule in 1725, and Father Juan de Velasco, born in Riobamba in 1727. De Velasco wrote about the nations and chiefdoms that had existed in the \"Kingdom of Quito\" (today Ecuador) before the arrival of the Spanish. His historical accounts are nationalistic, featuring a romantic perspective of precolonial history.\nFamous authors from the late colonial and early republic period include Eugenio Espejo, a printer and main author of the first newspaper in Ecuadorian colonial times; Jose Joaquin de Olmedo (born in Guayaquil), famous for his ode to Simón Bolívar titled \"Victoria de Junin\"; Juan Montalvo, a prominent essayist and novelist; Juan Leon Mera, famous for his work \"Cumanda\" or \"Tragedy among Savages\" and the Ecuadorian National Anthem; Juan A. Martinez with \"A la Costa';, Dolores Veintimilla; and others.\n\nContemporary Ecuadorian writers include the novelist Jorge Enrique Adoum; the poet Jorge Carrera Andrade; the essayist Benjamín Carrión; the poets Medardo Angel Silva, Jorge Carrera Andrade, and Luis Alberto Costales; the novelist Enrique Gil Gilbert; the novelist Jorge Icaza (author of the novel \"Huasipungo\", translated to many languages); the short story author Pablo Palacio; and the novelist Alicia Yanez Cossio.\n\nIn spite of Ecuador's considerable mystique, it is rarely featured as a setting in contemporary western literature. One exception is \"The Ecuadorian Deception,\" a murder mystery/thriller authored by American Bear Mills. In it, George d'Hout, a website designer from the United States is lured under false pretenses to Guayaquil. A corrupt American archaeologist is behind the plot, believing d'Hout holds the keys to locating a treasure hidden by a buccaneer ancestor. The story is based on a real pirate by the name of George d'Hout who terrorized Guayaquil in the 16th Century.\n\nThe best known art styles from Ecuador belonged to the \"Escuela Quiteña\" (Quito School), which developed from the 16th to 18th centuries, examples of which are on display in various old churches in Quito. Ecuadorian painters include Eduardo Kingman, Oswaldo Guayasamín, and Camilo Egas from the Indiginist Movement; Manuel Rendon, Jaime Zapata, Enrique Tábara, Aníbal Villacís, Theo Constanté, Luis Molinari, Araceli Gilbert, Judith Gutierrez, Felix Arauz, and Estuardo Maldonado from the Informalist Movement; Teddy Cobeña from expressionism and figurative style and Luis Burgos Flor with his abstract, futuristic style. The Amerindian people of Tigua, Ecuador, are also world-renowned for their traditional paintings.\n\nThe most popular sport in Ecuador, as in most South American countries, is football. Its best known professional teams include Liga De Quito from Quito; Emelec from Guayaquil; Deportivo Quito, and El Nacional from Quito; Olmedo from Riobamba; and Deportivo Cuenca from Cuenca. Currently the most successful football team in Ecuador is LDU Quito, and it is the only Ecuadorian team that has won the \"Copa Libertadores\", the \"Copa Sudamericana\", and the \"Recopa Sudamericana\"; they were also runners-up in the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup. The matches of the Ecuadorian national team are the most-watched sporting events in the country. Ecuador has qualified for the final rounds of the 2002, the 2006, & the 2014 FIFA World Cups. The 2002 FIFA World Cup qualifying campaign was considered a huge success for the country and its inhabitants. The unusually high elevation of the home stadium in Quito often affects the performance of visiting teams. Ecuador finished in 2nd place in the CONMEBOL qualifiers behind Argentina and above the team that would become World Champions, Brazil. In the 2006 FIFA World Cup, Ecuador finished ahead of Poland and Costa Rica finishing second behind Germany in Group A in the 2006 World Cup. They were defeated by England in the second round.\n\nEcuador has won only two medals in the Olympic Games, both gained by 20-km (12 mi) racewalker Jefferson Pérez, who took gold in the 1996 games and silver 12 years later. Pérez also set a world best in the 2003 World Championships of 1:17:21 for the 20-km (12 mi) distance.\nThe current structure of the Ecuadorian public health care system dates back to 1967. The Ministry of the Public Health (Ministerio de Salud Pública del Ecuador) is the responsible entity of the regulation and creation of the public health policies and health care plans. The Minister of Public Health is appointed directly by the President of the Republic. The current minister, or Ecuadorian general surgeon, is Margarita Guevara.\n\nThe philosophy of the Ministry of Public Health is the social support and service to the most vulnerable population, and its main plan of action lies around communitarian health and preventive medicine.\n\nThe public healthcare system allows patients to be treated without an appointment in public general hospitals by general practitioners and specialists in the outpatient clinic (\"Consulta Externa\") at no cost. This is done in the four basic specialties of pediatric, gynecology, clinic medicine, and surgery. There are also public hospitals specialized to treat chronic diseases, target a particular group of the population, or provide better treatment in some medical specialties. Some examples in this group are the Gynecologic Hospitals, or Maternities, Children Hospitals, Geriatric Hospitals, and Oncology Institutes.\n\nAlthough well-equipped general hospitals are found in the major cities or capitals of provinces, there are basic hospitals in the smaller towns and canton cities for family care consultation and treatments in pediatrics, gynecology, clinical medicine, and surgery.\n\nCommunity health care centers (Centros de Salud) are found inside metropolitan areas of cities and in rural areas. These are day hospitals that provide treatment to patients whose hospitalization is under 24 hours.\nThe doctors assigned to rural communities, where the Amerindian population can be substantial, have small clinics under their responsibility for the treatment of patients in the same fashion as the day hospitals in the major cities. The treatment in this case respects the culture of the community.\n\nThe public healthcare system should not be confused with the Ecuadorian Social Security healthcare service, which is dedicated to individuals with formal employment and who are affiliated obligatorily through their employers. Citizens with no formal employment may still contribute to the social security system voluntarily and have access to the medical services rendered by the social security system. The Ecuadorian Institute of Social Security (IESS) has several major hospitals and medical sub-centers under its administration across the nation.\n\nEcuador currently ranks 20, in most efficient health care countries, compared to 111 back in the year 2000.\nEcuadorians have a life expectancy of 75.6 years. The infant mortality rate is 13 per 1,000 live births, a major improvement from approximately 76 in the early 1980s and 140 in 1950. 23% of children under five are chronically malnourished. Population in some rural areas have no access to potable water, and its supply is provided by mean of water tankers. There are 686 malaria cases per 100,000 people. Basic health care, including doctor's visits, basic surgeries, and basic medications, has been provided free since 2008. However, some public hospitals are in poor condition and often lack necessary supplies to attend the high demand of patients. Private hospitals and clinics are well equipped but still expensive for the majority of the population.\n\nThe Ecuadorian Constitution requires that all children attend school until they achieve a \"basic level of education\", which is estimated at nine school years. In 1996, the net primary enrollment rate was 96.9%, and 71.8% of children stayed in school until the fifth grade. The cost of primary and secondary education is borne by the government, but families often face significant additional expenses such as fees and transportation costs.\n\nProvision of public schools falls far below the levels needed, and class sizes are often very large, and families of limited means often find it necessary to pay for education. In rural areas, only 10% of the children go on to high school. The Ministry of Education states that the mean number of years completed is 6.7.\nEcuador has 61 universities, many of which still confer terminal degrees according to the traditional Spanish education system, honoring a long tradition of having some of the oldest universities in the Americas: University of San Fulgencio, founded in 1586 by the Augustines; San Gregorio Magno University, founded in 1651 by the Jesuits; and University of Santo Tomás of Aquino, founded in 1681 by the Dominican order.\n\nAmong the traditional conferred terminal degrees can be noted the doctorate for medicine and law schools or engineering, physics, chemistry, or mathematics for polytechnic or technology institutes. These terminal degrees, as in the case of the PhD in other countries, were the main requirement for an individual to be accepted in academia as a professor or researcher. In the professional realm, a terminal degree granted by an accredited institution automatically provides a professional license to the individual.\n\nHowever, in 2004, the National Council of Higher Education (CONESUP), started the reorganization of all the degree-granting schemes of the accredited universities in order to pair them with foreign counterparts. The new structure of some careers caused the dropping of subjects, credits, or even the name of the previously conferred diplomas. The terminal degree in law, previously known as JD Juris Doctor (Doctor en Jurisprudencia) was replaced by the one of \"abogado\" (attorney) with the exception of the modification of the number of credits to equate it to an undergraduate degree. In the same fashion for medical school, the required time of education was considerably reduced from nine years (the minimum needed to obtain the title of MD in Medicine and Surgery) to almost five, with the provision that the diploma is not terminal anymore, and it is given with the title of \"médico\" (medic). Therefore, an MD or PhD in medicine is only to be obtained overseas until the universities adjust themselves to granting schemes and curriculum as in foreign counterparts. Nonetheless, a \"médico\" can start a career as family practitioner or general medicine physician.\n\nThis new reorganization, although very ambitious, lacked the proper path to the homologation of diplomas for highly educated professionals graduated in the country or even for the ones graduated in foreign institutions. One of the points of conflict was the imposition of obtaining foreign degrees to current academicians. As today, a master's degree is a requirement to keep an academic position and at least a foreign PhD to attain or retain the status of \"rector\" (president of a university) or \"décano\" (dean). For Ecuadorian researchers and many academicians trained in the country, these regulations sounded illogical, disappointing, and unlawful since it appeared a question of a title name conflict rather than specialization or science advancement.\n\nA debate to modify this and other reforms, especially the one which granted control of the Higher Education System by the government, was practically passed with consensus by the multi-partisan National Assembly on August 4, 2010, but vetoed by President Rafael Correa, who wanted to keep the law strictly as it was originally redacted by his political party and SENPLADES (National Secretary of Planning and Development). Due to this change, there are many highly educated professionals and academicians under the old structure but estimated that only 87% of the faculty in public universities have already obtained a master's degree, and fewer than 5% have a PhD (although many of them already have Ecuadorian-granted doctorate degrees).\n\nAbout 300 institutes of higher education offer two to three years of post-secondary vocational or technical training.\n\nEcuador is currently placed in 96th position of innovation in technology.\nThe most notable icons in Ecuadorian sciences are the mathematician and cartographer Pedro Vicente Maldonado, born in Riobamba in 1707, and the printer, independence precursor, and medical pioneer Eugenio Espejo, born in 1747 in Quito.\nAmong other notable Ecuadorian scientists and engineers are Lieutenant Jose Rodriguez Lavandera, a pioneer who built the first submarine in Latin America in 1837; (1898–1950), a botanist and biologist of Andean flora; and (1880–1961), a chemist and inventor of a method of textile serigraphy.\n\nThe major areas of scientific research in Ecuador have been in the medical fields, tropical and infectious diseases treatments, agricultural engineering, pharmaceutical research, and bioengineering. Being a small country and a consumer of foreign technology, Ecuador has favored research supported by entrepreneurship in information technology. The antivirus program \"Checkprogram\", banking protection system \"MdLock\", and Core Banking Software \"Cobis\" are products of Ecuadorian development.\n\nThe scientific production in hard sciences has been limited due to lack of funding but focused around physics, statistics, and partial differential equations in mathematics. In the case of engineering fields, the majority of scientific production comes from the top three polytechnic institutions: Escuela Superior Politécnica del Litoral - \"ESPOL\", Universidad de Las Fuerzas Armadas - \"ESPE\", and Escuela Politécnica Nacional \"EPN\". The Center for Research and Technology Development in Ecuador is an autonomous center for research and technology development funded by Senecyt.\n\nEPN is known for research and education in the applied science, astronomy, atmospheric physics, engineering and physical sciences. The Geophysics Institute monitors over the country's volcanoes in the Andes Mountains of Ecuador and in the Galápagos Islands, all of which is part of the Ring of Fire. EPN adopted the polytechnic university model that stresses laboratory instruction in applied science and engineering.\n\nThe oldest observatory in South America is the Quito Astronomical Observatory and is located in Quito, Ecuador. The Quito Astronomical Observatory, which gives the global community of a Virtual Telescope System that is connected via the Internet and allows the world to watch by streaming, is managed by EPN.\n\nContemporary Ecuadorian scientists who have been recognized by international institutions are Eugenia del Pino (born 1945), the first Ecuadorian to be elected to the United States National Academy of Science, and Arturo Villavicencio, who was part of the working group of the IPCC, which shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore for their dissemination of the effects of climate change.\n\nCurrently, the politics of research and investigation are managed by the National Secretary of Higher Education, Science, and Technology (\"Senescyt\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40866375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40866375", "title": "Eden Patera", "text": "Eden Patera\n\nEden Patera is a feature located in the Mare Acidalium quadrangle on the planet Mars. In October 2013 the feature gained some attention when it was speculated it may be a supervolcano rather than an impact crater, according to research from the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson, led by Joseph R. Michalski. The research postulated the crater was formed by the volcano's caldera collapsing, rather than from an impact. Some of reasons for suspecting that Eden Patera is a collapsed caldera not an impact crater are its irregular shape, an apparent lack of a raised rim or central peak, and lack of impact ejecta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20419484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20419484", "title": "Geo-imputation", "text": "Geo-imputation\n\nIn data analysis involving geographical locations, geo-imputation or geographical imputation methods are steps taken to replace missing values for exact locations with approximate locations derived from associated data. They assign a reasonable location or geographic based attribute (e.g., census tract) to a person by using both the demographic characteristics of the person\nand the population characteristics from a larger geographic aggregate area in which the person was geocoded (e.g., postal delivery area or county). For example if a person's census tract was known and no other address information was available then geo-imputation methods could be used to probabilistically assign that person to a smaller geographic area, such as a census block group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31764662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31764662", "title": "GeoTime", "text": "GeoTime\n\nGeoTime is geospatial analysis software that allows the visual analysis of events over time. It adds time as the third dimension to a two-dimensional map (which can include 3D projection of terrain elevation geodata or any abstract diagrammatic space), allowing users to see changes within time series data. Users can view real-time animated playback of data and use automated analysis tools within the software to identify location patterns, connections between events, and trends.\n\nGeoTime can import data in many formats, such as GPX, Shapefile, KML, Microsoft Excel, CSV, geotagged photos, and from live data sources via GeoRSS and RSS web feeds and WMS servers. It supports most telecommunication carrier reporting formats (CDR), including tower/sector information. These features allow users to aggregate data from satellites, mobile phones, social networking web sites, web server logs and many other sources. GeoTime can export data to other GIS software such as Google Earth and ESRI ArcGIS via KML format, and to other applications via CSV, as well as capture video of data animations. An ArcGIS extension is available that allows GeoTime to work alongside the popular ArcGIS geographic information system with bi-directional data sharing between the two programs.\n\nGeoTime was a winner of the IEEE Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST) conference contest for three years in a row.\n\nGeoTime has been used by professionals in public safety (including metropolitan police and emergency management), telecommunications, academic research, healthcare and human services, and the U.S. military. It has been used to analyze data from sources as diverse as downhill skiing, influenza monitoring, and GPS wildlife tracking. A list of customers is available on the GeoTime web site.\n\nLawyers and privacy campaigners have questioned whether innocent individuals may be tracked by the software, which has been likened to a computer programme in the science fiction film Minority Report.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5553", "title": "Geography of Costa Rica", "text": "Geography of Costa Rica\n\nCosta Rica is located on the Central American Isthmus, surrounding the point 10° north of the equator and 84° west of the prime meridian. It borders both the Caribbean Sea (to the east) and the North Pacific Ocean (to the west), with a total of 1,290 km of coastline (212 km on the Caribbean coast and 1,016 km on the Pacific).\n\nCosta Rica shares a border with Nicaragua to the north (313 km long border) and with Panama to the south (348 km long border). The area of Costa Rica is 51,100 km² of which 51,060 km² is land and 40 km² is water, making it slightly smaller than the U.S. state of West Virginia.\n\nThe nation's terrain is a coastal plain separated by rugged mountains, the Cordillera Central and the Cordillera de Talamanca, which form the spine of the country and separate the Pacific and Caribbean watersheds. Costa Rica claims an exclusive economic zone of and a territorial sea of .\n\nThe spine of the country produces many major river systems. Rivers draining into the Caribbean include:\n\nRivers draining into the Lake Nicaragua or the San Juan River (\"Rio San Juan\"), whose waters eventually drains into the Caribbean, include:\n\nRivers draining into the Pacific Ocean include:\n\nIn the eastern half of the country, the San Juan River forms the northern border with Nicaragua.\n\nThe Tilaran Range is part of the Continental Divide east of Lake Arenal and the nearby active volcano Arenal, and running into the Cordillera Central range further east. It is located in the Abangares district of the province of Guanacaste.\n\nAt the edge of the range is the Monteverde cloud forest preserve, a major ecotourism destination.\n\nThe Central Range continues the Continental Divide east of Cordillera de Tilarán. It has four large volcanoes: Poás, Barva, Irazú and Turrialba. The highest peak is Irazú at 3,432 m.\n\nThe Guanacaste Range is in northern Costa Rica near the border with Nicaragua. The range forms part of the southern region of the Continental Divide, the highest peak being the extinct stratovolcano Miravalles at 2,028 m. Peaks include:\n\nMuch of the Talamanca Range is included in the La Amistad International Park, which is shared between Costa Rica and Panama. The country's highest peaks lie in this mountain range: the Cerro Chirripó and the Cerro Kamuk. Much of the region is covered by the forest.\n\nThe Cerros de Escazú borders the Central Valley to the south and is considered the northernmost portion of the Cordillera de Talamanca.\n\nCosta Rica´s climate is mostly tropical and subtropical.\n\nLike all Central American countries, Costa Rica is considered a biodiversity hotspot. According to the INBio, about 4.5% of the world's biodiversity can be found in Costa Rica.\nCosta Rica is home to about 12,119 species of plants, of which 950 are endemic. There are 117 native trees and more than 1,400 types of orchids; a third of them can be found in the Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve. Almost a half of the country's land is covered by forests, though only 3.5% is covered by primary forests. Deforestation is a devastating process, with more than 8,100 ha of forest being lost annually. The main reason for such high deforestation levels is to make plains for cattle ranching.\n\nWildlife diversity is very high; there are 441 species of amphibians and reptiles, 838 species of birds, 232 species of mammals and 181 species of fresh water fish. Costa Rica has high levels of endemism; 81 species of amphibians and reptiles, 17 species of birds and 7 species of mammals are endemic to the country. However, many species are endangered. According to the World Conservation Monitoring Centre, 209 species of birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians and plants are endangered. Some of the country's most endangered species are the Harpy eagle, the Giant anteater, the Golden toad and the Jaguar. IUCN reports the Golden toad as extinct.\n\nCosta Rica is famous for its 26 national parks and more than 160 protected areas. The other types of protected areas in Costa Rica are National Wildlife Refuges, Biological Reserves, Protection Zones, and Absolute Nature Reserves. Together the protected areas comprise over one-fourth of Costa Rican territory. 9.3% of the country is protected under IUCN categories I-V.\n\nThe creation of the Tortuguero National Park in 1970 gave much needed protection to one of the region's most important and unique natural resources: a 22 km stretch of shoreline that serves as the principal nesting site for sea turtles.\n\nEnvironmental issues include deforestation, largely a result of the clearing of land for cattle ranching; soil erosion; coastal marine pollution; fisheries protection; solid waste management; and air pollution.\n\nCosta Rica is party to many environmental treaties, including the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Convention on Environmental Modification, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Montreal Protocol, the Ramsar Convention, the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, the Desertification Convention, the Endangered Species Convention, the Basel Convention, the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the Convention on Marine Dumping, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. It has signed but not ratified the Convention on Marine Life Conservation and the Kyoto Protocol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59006956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59006956", "title": "Geology of Barbados", "text": "Geology of Barbados\n\nThe geology of Barbados includes exposures of reef-related carbonate rocks spanning 85 percent of the island's surface. This Coral Rock Formation is 70 meters thick and dates to the Pleistocene. Unlike neighboring islands in the Lesser Antilles volcanic arc, Barbados is unusual because it is not a volcanic island (the only volcanic rocks are some ash beds from eruptions on neighboring islands). Instead, the island of Barbados is the exposed part of the Barbados Ridge Accretionary Prism, left as deep ocean sediments \"scraped\" to the surface as the Atlantic oceanic crust subducted beneath the Caribbean Plate.\n\nThe oldest rocks are in the Scotland Formation and include Eocene age turbidite and radiolarites. This unit is 4.5 kilometers thick from the sea floor to the surface. It is overlain by a syncline basin called the Woodbourne Trough, which includes pelagic sediments. Nappe formations of the Oceanic Formation, from a Miocene forearc basin filled with calcareous pelagic sediments and volcanic ash is thrusted on top of the two older units. Mud, rich in organic molecules intrudes all of these units with diapirs—rising tendrils of mud with behavior similar to salt domes.\n"}
{"id": "58912007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58912007", "title": "Geology of Thailand", "text": "Geology of Thailand\n\nThe geology of Thailand includes deep crystalline metamorphic basement rocks, overlain by extensive sandstone, limestone, turbidites and some volcanic rocks. The region experienced complicated tectonics during the Paleozoic, long-running shallow water conditions and then renewed uplift and erosion in the past several million years ago.\n\nMedium- and high-grade metamorphic rocks form the basement of Thailand and geologists have debated based on radiometric dating whether metamorphism took place during the Precambrian or Mesozoic (if during the Mesozoic, it likely overprinted and recrystallized older rocks). In the northwest, many rocks near Chiang Mai and Kanchanaburi are metamorphosed to amphibolite or epidote grade on the sequence of metamorphic facies. The region has a paragneiss-schist and anatectic-migmatic sequence. \n\nEarly Paleozoic rocks are only known in western Thailand, such as sandstones on Tarutao Island in the Andaman Sea with Cambrian and Ordovician trilobite fossils. Together with non-fossil bearing strata on the mainland, they make up the Tarutao Group. Primarily sandstones, some make direct contact visible at the surface with underlying gneiss. \n\nLimestone commonly deposited in the Ordovician and Silurian, forming the Thung Song Group, with a large component of argillite in the upper and lower part of the group. There is also a shale horizon called the Ban Na Shale, interbedded with Ordovician limestone. The presence of shale suggests a deeper water environment in the Silurian. \nThe Thong Pha Phum Group conformably overlies the Thung Song Group in the west with a thick sequence of non-fossil bearing clastic marine sedimentary rocks that likely deposited in a forearc basin. Volcanic activity was common in the Devonian and Carboniferous as limestone accumulated on a western facing continental margin (exposures of these rocks are visible at Petchabun-Loei in east-central Thailand). \n\nCarboniferous and Permian turbidite sequences overlie these groups in south, west and central Thailand. Thick sequences of clastic sediment in the Kaeng Krachan Formation extends from the center-west into Myanmar. Some geologists have interpreted pebbly diamictite mudstone and turbidites in the Mergui Group as glacial sediments, with possible origin in India or northwest Australia. One interpretation holds that the Mergui Group was thrust on top of the Shan-Thai Block from the west during the Mesozoic, forming a nappe. Extensional tectonics in the north led to mafic volcanic activity within the Shan-Thai Block in the Carboniferous, continuing into the Permian. Some red beds also formed during the same period. \n\nDuring the Permian, almost the entire region was submerged during a major marine transgression. Carbonates deposited in shallow, shelf seas and today form dramatic karst landscapes. The warm water Saraburi Group in the east has numerous fossils, while the Ratburi Group in the west does not. In peninsular Thailand, sandstone is predominant interfingered with Ratburi Group limestones. Along the western edge of the Khorat Plateau, a limestone dominated shelf sequence abuts turbidites and pyroclastic flow deposits. A magmatic arc around a west-dipping subduction zone produced intermediate and felsic volcanic rocks in the north around Lampang to the east of Chiang Mai. \n\nDuring the Triassic, a major marine transgression flooded Thailand. Conglomerate is common at the base of units from this time period, overlain by limestone that thickens to the westward. East of Chiang Mai, the Lampang Group has marine shale, sandstone, limestone and conglomerate three kilometers thick, overlain by an additional two kilometers of flysch. Geologists have interpreted it as shallow-water deposition in a forearc basin over a west-dipping subduction zone. \n\nMarine conditions lasted into the Norian, or as late as the Jurassic in the west. The Mae Moei Group is a major limestone unit in the northwest equivalent to the Lampang Group with Jurassic strata at the top and overlain by Cretaceous red beds. \n\nBy contrast to the patterns of marine deposition, the Khorat Plateau in the northeast is underlain by Triassic-Cretaceous continental deposits. Offshore islands and the Cambodian border have numerous sandstones related to the plateau. With calc-alkaline volcanic rock at its base, the Khorat Plateau is diachronous giving the appearance that basin deposition moved further west through the Mesozoic. The Khorat Group is five kilometers thick in the northeast and holds occasional dinosaur, plant and bivalve fossils. Much of the deposition took place in a lake environment. The Khorat Group begins with 2.5 kilometers of red beds, overlain by light-colored sandstones, red beds and evaporites such as carallite, tachydrite, halite and sylvite. The carnallite zone is up to 95 meters thick and the halite deposit is one of the thickest on Earth. \n\nThailand has intrusive granitoid everywhere but the Khorat Plateau. I- and S-type plutons are dominant along the border with Myanmar and extending to the Phuket Island. Typically, they are small and isolated with biotite and muscovite-rich granite as well as potassium feldspar megacrysts, hornblende and large mica-tourmaline or lepidolite pegmatites. S-type granites in this belt commonly have tin-tungsten mineralization. Triassic S-type granitoid batholiths, often associated with orthogneiss and migmatite, form a central belt in western Thailand the peninsula.\nCenozoic sedimentary rocks are mainly found in low-lying areas in the north and west, but also at several areas in the south. In the north, graben formations filled with sediment two kilometers thick. For much of the Cenozoic, Thailand was comparatively flat until rapid uplift began in the north, accompanied by block faulting and horst and graben formation in the Pliocene and Pleistocene, leaving valley floors to fill with gravel and sand. Large quantities of natural gas and some petroleum have been found in the blended terrestrial and marine sedimentary strata along the Andaman Sea coast, ranging in age from Oligocene to Pliocene. Marine influence is modest and common later in the sequence, which is up to eight kilometers thick. \n\nThe Chao Paya Basin around Bangkok and Pitsanulok Basin in the north both have extensive Quaternary sedimentary cover from the last 2.5 million years. Based on aerial magnetic surveys and boreholes, geologists have inferred that the Chao Paya Basin is believed to be a composite graben with uneven underlying topography.\n\nThroughout the Quaternary, as uplift continued sediments eroded off the rising highlands and deposited in low-lying areas. During the Pleistocene ice ages, the Gulf of Thailand resembled its present geography, although sea levels did rise and extend more than 100 kilometers north of Bangkok, leaving behind the 20 meter thick Bangkok Clay in the Holocene. An alkaline basalt province erupted across northern Thailand and into Cambodia and Vietnam, leaving behind small vents, plugs and flows. \n\nThailand is a leading global producer of tin, almost exclusively from cassiterite. In a few locations, very small occurrences of malayaite and stannite—other examples of tin minerals—have been found. \n\nCassiterite is found in quartz veins, skarn deposits, aplite, pegmatite and greisenized granite intrusions, often with accessory minerals such as fluorite, muscovite, wolframite, columbite, tantalite, tourmaline, topaz, zircon and beryl. Sulfide minerals like chalcopyrite, pyrite, arsenopyrite, sphalerite, galena and bismuthinite are found in association with cassiterite in the north and south. Virtually all deposits display some form of hydrothermal formation. In the west and along the Malaysian border are tin-bearing granites. In fact, the Ranong-Phuket area near the Andaman Sea coast and the southern peninsula of Thailand produces 85 percent of its tin output. Onshore and offshore placer deposits are the key tin source. \n\nAdditionally, Thailand has some production of gypsum, limestone, kaolin, sapphire, zircon, tantalite, columbite, antimony, lead, zinc, barite and fluorite. Examples include Jurassic sandstones with copper-uranium mineralization or Ordovician limestones with lead-zinc sulfides. Onshore and offshore Cenozoic basins have lignite, oil shale and some petroleum. \n"}
{"id": "8334337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8334337", "title": "Hatton Basin", "text": "Hatton Basin\n\nThe Hatton Basin is a sedimentary basin, located off the west coast of Ireland. It lies between the Hatton and Edoras Banks to the west and the Rockall Bank to the east. The age of the basin fill is uncertain, as its relationship to the Rockall Basin.\n"}
{"id": "29804556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29804556", "title": "History of Oslo's name", "text": "History of Oslo's name\n\nErroneously, it was once assumed that Oslo meant \"the mouth of the Lo river\", referring to a lost name of the river Alna. This apocryphal story is not only ungrammatical (the correct form would be Loaros, cf. Nidaros), but the name Lo is not recorded anywhere before Peder Claussøn Friis first used it in the same work in which he proposed this etymology. The name Lo is now believed to be a back-formation arrived at by Friis in support of his spurious etymology for Oslo.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages the name was initially spelt \"Ánslo\" or \"Áslo\" and later \"Óslo\" or \"Opslo\". The earlier spelling suggests that the first component \"ás\" might refer to the Ekeberg ridge southeast of the medieval town. The word \"ás\" (in modern Norwegian \"ås\") with the meaning 'ridge' or 'hill' is a common component in Norwegian place names (as in Ås and Åsnes). In that case, it would read \"the meadow beneath the ridge\".\n\nAnother interpretation could be \"the meadow of the gods\" (the word \"áss\" or \"ansu\" in Old Norse refers to the Æsir). The word \"ás\" with the meaning \"god\" is rare in place names, and Bull concludes that the name most likely has a topographical origin.\n\nA fire in 1624 destroyed much of the medieval city, and when the city was rebuilt it was moved westwards to be closer to Akershus Fortress. King Christian IV of Denmark and Norway named the reborn city Christiania. The old site east of Aker river was not abandoned however and the village of Oslo remained as suburb outside the city gates. According to an official spelling reform (that changed ch to k) the form was changed to \"Kristiania\" in 1877. (The same year the city names \"Christiansand\" and \"Christiansund\" were changed to Kristiansand and Kristiansund - and the name of the county \"Christians Amt\" was changed to Kristians Amt.) The new form was used in all official documents and publications of the Norwegian State, but not by the municipality itself. The city continued to use the old form until 1897, then they also changed to \"Kristiania\" (without any formal or official decision).\n\nAfter the 1624 establishment of Christiania near Akershus fortress, the original site of the town was rebuilt and served as suburb outside the city gates. This village east of the river had preserved the name \"Oslo\". A 1783 map, the oldest existing of the city, uses \"Christiania\" for the new town west of the river, while \"Opslo\" is used for the easternmost settlement near Ekeberg hill. A map published in 1827 also indicates \"Opslo\" as the village or suburb outside the city proper. A map published by \"Aftenposten\" in 1923 labels the eastern suburb as \"Oslo\" and the nearby port as \"Oslo harbour\". After the 1859 and 1878 expansion of city borders to include the surrounding Aker municipality, the village of Oslo was included in Christiania municipality. The entire city was named \"Oslo\" by a law of 11 July 1924, effective 1 January 1925—a decision that caused much debate. The change was proposed in 1918 by 29 civil servants. \"Morgenbladet\" compiled a list of 28,000 signatures against the proposal. Sigrid Undset wrote that she would be ashamed if the city would try to cheat and pretend to be its predecessor on the other side of the Aker river.\n\nWhen the city in general now took up the name of Oslo, the eastern district of the city that had preserved the name became known simply as \"Gamlebyen\" \"the Old Town of Oslo\" in the borough (district) of \"Gamle Oslo\" \"Old Oslo\". The old square of Christian IV's city was named \"Christiania torv\" in 1958, and this name (with the old ch-form) is still in use on signs and maps. Christian IV's city with straight streets and right angles is now known as \"Kvadraturen\" (\"the Square\") and covers large parts of modern Oslo's centre, in 2009 it was proposed to rename this area Christiania.\n\nA street in Gamlebyen was named \"Oslo gate\" ('Oslo street') when the name \"Oslo\" still was the name of a suburb in \"Kristiania\". The street name is still in use. \"Oslo torg\" (Oslo market square) is the old name for the centre of old Oslo at the intersection of Bispegata and Oslo gate, and was reintroduced by the city council in 2014.\n\nThe city was referred to as Tigerstaden (the City of Tigers) by the author Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson around 1870, due to his perception of the city as a cold and dangerous place. This name has over the years achieved an almost official status, to the extent that the 1000-year anniversary was celebrated by a row of tiger sculptures around city hall. The prevalence of homeless and other beggars in more recent times led to the slight rewording of the nickname into Tiggerstaden (the City of Beggars).\n"}
{"id": "7603967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7603967", "title": "Index of Iceland-related articles", "text": "Index of Iceland-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Iceland include:\n\n- 1. deild karla\n- 2. deild karla\n- 3. deild karla\n- 4. deild karla\n- 101 Reykjavík\n- 12 Tónar\n- 1949 anti-NATO riot in Iceland\n- 24 stundir\n- 365 (media corporation)\n\n- A Little Trip to Heaven\n- A Man Like Me\n- Abortion in Iceland\n- Actavis\n- Administrative divisions of Iceland\n- Age of the Sturlungs\n- Agnar Helgason\n- Agreed Minute\n- Air Atlanta Icelandic\n- Air Iceland\n- Akranes\n- Akranesvöllur\n- Akureyrarvöllur\n- Akureyri Airport\n- Akureyri Junior College\n- Akureyri\n- Albert Guðmundsson\n- Albert Kristjansson\n- Aldeyjarfoss\n- Alfred Jolson\n- Alfreð Gíslason\n- All Out of Luck\n- Allt í drasli\n- Allt Sem Ég Á\n- Althing\n- Alþingishúsið\n- AM 738 4to\n- AM 748 I 4to\n- AMFJ\n- Amiina\n- Ampop\n- Andri Snær Magnason\n- Angel (Two Tricky song)\n- Angels of the Universe\n- Animamina\n- Apavatn\n- Apparat Organ Quartet\n- Architecture of Iceland\n- Arctic fox\n- Argja Bóltfelag\n- Ari Freyr Skúlason\n- Ari Guðmundsson\n- Ari Trausti Guðmundsson\n- Ari Þorgilsson\n- Arnaldur Indriðason\n- Arnamagnæan Manuscript Collection\n- Arnar Grétarsson\n- Arnar Gunnlaugsson\n- Arnar Jónsson (actor)\n- Arnar Jónsson (basketball)\n- Arnar Viðarsson\n- Arnavatnsheiði\n- Arngrímur Jónsson\n- Arnór Guðjohnsen\n- Arnórr jarlaskáld\n- Aron Gunnarsson\n- As Above...\n- Askja (building)\n- Askja\n- Asmund and Signy\n- Atlantic Cup (Europe)\n- Atlantic puffin\n- Atli Eðvaldsson\n- Atli Heimir Sveinsson\n- Attention (GusGus album)\n- Aud the Deep-Minded\n- Auðun Helgason\n- Auðunn Blöndal\n- Auður Jónsdóttir\n- August & Telma\n- Austur-Húnavatnssýsla\n- Austur-Skaftafellssýsla\n\n- Á Móti Sól\n- Ágúst Guðmundsson\n- Ágúst Gylfason\n- Ágúst Ævar Gunnarsson\n- Ágústa Eva Erlendsdóttir\n- Ágætis byrjun\n- Áki Ásgeirsson\n- Álafoss\n- Álfrún Gunnlaugsdóttir\n- Álftanes\n- Áramótaskaupið\n- Árborg\n- Árbæjarsafn\n- Árbær\n- Ármann Smári Björnsson\n- Árnagarður\n- Árneshreppur\n- Árnessýsla\n- Árni beiskur\n- Árni Bergmann\n- Árni Gautur Arason\n- Árni Helgason\n- Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies\n- Árni Magnússon\n- Árni Mathiesen\n- Árni Sigfússon\n- Árni Þorláksson\n- Árni Þórarinsson\n- Ásbirningar family clan\n- Ásbyrgi\n- Ásgeir Ásgeirsson\n- Ásgeir Helgason\n- Ásgeir Sigurvinsson\n- Ásgrímur Jónsson\n- Ásmundur Sveinsson\n- ÁTVR\n\n- Ba Ba Ti Ki Di Do\n- Bad Taste (record label)\n- Bakkafjörður\n- Bakkavör\n- Baldur Bett\n- Baldur Möller\n- Baldur Ragnarsson\n- Baldur Sigurðsson\n- Baldur, Manitoba\n- Baldwin Baldwinson\n- Baltasar Kormákur\n- Banana production in Iceland\n- Bandalag íslenskra skáta\n- Bandamanna saga\n- Bang Gang\n- Barðastrandarsýsla\n- Barðaströnd\n- Barði Jóhannsson\n- Barðsneshorn\n- Barnafossar\n- Basque–Icelandic pidgin\n- Battle of Haugsnes\n- Battle of Sauðafell\n- Battle of the Gulf\n- Battle of Víðines\n- Battle of Örlygsstaðir\n- Baugur Group\n- Baula\n- Bárðar saga Snæfellsáss\n- Bárðarbunga\n- Bellatrix (band)\n- Benedikt Sigurðsson Gröndal\n- Beowulf & Grendel\n- Berglind Ásgeirsdóttir\n- Bergsbók\n- Bergur Sigurbjörnsson\n- Bergþórshvoll\n- Bernard Bernard\n- Bersi Skáldtorfuson\n- Bessastadahreppur\n- Bessastaðir\n- Bifröst (town)\n- Bifröst University\n- Bill Sveinson\n- Bing Bang (Time to Dance)\n- Birgir Sigurðsson (writer)\n- Birgitta Haukdal\n- Birkir Bjarnason\n- Birkir Ívar Guðmundsson\n- Birkir Kristinsson\n- Bishop of Iceland\n- Bishop of Reykjavík (Catholic)\n- Bíldudalur\n- Bitið fast í vitið\n- Bjargtangar\n- Bjarki Gunnlaugsson\n- Bjarnar saga Hítdœlakappa\n- Bjarni Ármannsson\n- Bjarni Benediktsson (born 1908)\n- Bjarni Benediktsson (born 1970)\n- Bjarni Bjarnason\n- Bjarni Friðriksson\n- Bjarni Guðjónsson\n- Bjarni Herjólfsson\n- Bjarni Jónsson (artist)\n- Bjarni Jónsson\n- Bjarni Thorarensen\n- Bjarni Tryggvason\n- Bjarni Viðarsson\n- Björgólfur Guðmundsson\n- Björgólfur Hideaki Takefusa\n- Björgólfur Thor Björgólfsson\n- Björgvin Halldórsson\n- Björk (album)\n- Björk Guðmundsdóttir & tríó Guðmundar Ingólfssonar\n- Björk\n- Björn Bjarnason\n- Björn Gunnlaugsson\n- Björn Hjörtur Guðmundsson\n- Björn Jónsson\n- Björn Th. Björnsson\n- Björn Thorfinnsson\n- Björn Þórðarson\n- Blanda\n- Bláhnjúkur\n- Blái hnötturinn\n- Bláskógabyggð\n- Blue Lagoon (geothermal spa)\n- Bluebird Cargo\n- Blöndulón\n- Blönduós\n- Bobby Fischer\n- Bolli Bollason\n- Bolli Þorleiksson\n- Bolungarvík\n- Borgarbyggð\n- Borgarfjarðarsýsla\n- Borgarfjörður\n- Borgarnes\n- Borgartún\n- Borgarvirki\n- Borko\n- Boss Johnson\n- Botnleðja\n- Bólu-Hjálmar\n- Bónus\n- Bragi Ólafsson\n- Breiðablik UBK\n- Breiðafjörður\n- Breiðárlón\n- Breiðdalsvík\n- Breiðholt\n- Brennisteinsalda\n- Brennisteinsfjöll\n- Brennivín\n- Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir\n- Broddi Kristjansson\n- Brú\n- Brúará\n- Brynhildur Davíðsdóttir\n- Brynjar Gunnarsson\n- Brynjólfur Sveinsson\n- Bubbi Morthens\n- Buddhism in Iceland\n- Búðardalur\n- Bæjarins Beztu Pylsur\n- Böðvar Guðmundsson\n\n- Cabinet of Iceland\n- Calum Bett\n- Capital punishment in Iceland\n- Capital Region (Iceland)\n- CCP Games\n- Celebrating Life\n- Center for Icelandic Art\n- Central Bank of Iceland\n- Changer\n- Charles Thorson\n- Chester Thordarson\n- Children (2006 film)\n- Children of Nature\n- Christian Halldorson\n- Christianisation of Iceland\n- Christopher of Bavaria\n- Church of Iceland\n- Cinema of Iceland\n- Citizens' Party (Iceland)\n- Climate of Iceland\n- Coat of arms of Iceland\n- Cod Music\n- Cod Wars\n- Codex Regius\n- Cold Fever\n- Communist League (Iceland)\n- Communist Party of Iceland (Marxist–Leninist)\n- Communist Party of Iceland\n- Confederation of State and Municipal Employees of Iceland\n- Congratulations (Silvía Night song)\n- Constituencies of Iceland\n- Constitution of Iceland\n- Counties of Iceland\n- Culture of Iceland\n- Curver\n\n- Daði Lárusson\n- Dagsbrún\n- Dagskrá – Reykjavík\n- Dagur Arngrímsson\n- Dagur Bergþóruson Eggertsson\n- Dagur Kári\n- Dalabyggð\n- Dalasýsla\n- Dalvík\n- Dancer in the Dark\n- Danish Royal Library, MS NKS 1867 4°\n- Daníel Ágúst Haraldsson\n- Dark Horse (2005 film)\n- Davíð Viðarsson\n- Davíð Oddsson\n- Davíð Stefánsson\n- Daysleeper (band)\n- Debut (Björk album)\n- DeCODE genetics\n- Deildabikar\n- Deildartunguhver\n- Demographics of Iceland\n- Denmark Strait\n- Denmark–Norway\n- Dense Time\n- Dettifoss\n- Devil's Island (1996 film)\n- Diddú\n- Die Another Day\n- Dikta\n- Dimmuborgir\n- Djúpavík\n- Djúpivogur\n- Dohop\n- Dorrit Moussaieff\n- Dóra Þórhallsdóttir\n- Drangajökull\n- Drangey\n- Draugr\n- Draumur um Nínu\n- Drawing Restraint 9 (album)\n- Droplaugarsona saga\n- Drög að Upprisu\n- DV (newspaper)\n- Dynjandi\n- Dyrhólaey\n\n- Eagle Air (Iceland)\n- Eastern Region (Iceland)\n- Economic history of Iceland\n- Economy of Iceland\n- Education in Iceland\n- Eggert Jónsson\n- Eggert Magnússon\n- Eggert Ólafsson\n- Egill Skallagrímsson Brewery\n- Egill Skallagrímsson\n- Egil's Saga\n- Egilshöll\n- Egilsstaðir Airport\n- Egilsstaðir\n- Eiðar longwave transmitter\n- Eiður Guðjohnsen\n- Eilífr Goðrúnarson\n- Eilífr kúlnasveinn\n- Eimskipafélag Íslands\n- Einar Arnórsson\n- Einar Benediktsson\n- Einar Hákonarson\n- Einar Hjörleifsson Kvaran\n- Einar Jónsson\n- Einar Kárason\n- Einar Már Guðmundsson\n- Einar Pálsson\n- Einar Vilhjálmsson\n- Einar Örn Benediktsson\n- Einarr Helgason\n- Einarr Skúlason\n- Einherji\n- Eiríksjökull\n- Eiríkur Hauksson\n- Eitt lag enn\n- Eldey\n- Eldfell\n- Eldgjá\n- Elections in Iceland\n- Eleven Men Out\n- Elín Ebba Gunnarsdóttir\n- Elín Hirst\n- Elísabet Jökulsdóttir\n- Elliðaár\n- Elliðavatn\n- Embassy of Iceland, Ottawa\n- Emil Hallfreðsson\n- Emil Jónsson\n- Emilíana Torrini\n- Engel Lund\n- Erik the Red\n- Erlendur Haraldsson\n- Erró\n- Esjufjöll\n- Eskifjörður\n- Eth\n- Eurobandið\n- Exista\n- Extreme points of Iceland\n- Eyjafjallajökull\n- Eyjafjarðarsveit\n- Eyjafjörður\n- Eyjólfur Héðinsson\n- Eyjólfur Sverrisson\n- Eyrarbakki\n- Eyrbyggja saga\n- Eysteinn Ásgrímsson\n- Eysteinn Valdason\n- Eyvindur P. Eiríksson\n- Eyþór Guðjónsson\n\n- Fagrskinna\n- Falcons (film)\n- Family Tree (Björk album)\n- Far... Þinn Veg\n- Farthings of Iceland\n- Faxaflói\n- Faxi\n- Fálkar (soundtrack)\n- Fálkinn\n- Fiann Paul\n- Fimleikafélag Hafnarfjarðar\n- Finally We Are No One\n- Finnboga saga ramma\n- Finnur Jónsson\n- Finnur Jónsson (bishop)\n- Finnur Magnússon\n- First Day of Summer\n- First Grammatical Treatise\n- Fíaskó\n- Fjallabyggð\n- Fjalla-Eyvindur\n- Fjallsárlón\n- Fjarðabyggð\n- Flag of Iceland\n- Flatey, Breiðafjörður\n- Flatey, Skjálfandi\n- Flateyjarbók\n- Flateyjardalur\n- Flateyri\n- Fljótsdalshérað\n- Fljótsdalur\n- Fljótsdæla saga\n- Flóahreppur\n- Flóamanna saga\n- Flugfélag Vestmannaeyja\n- Flúðir\n- FM 957\n- Football Association of Iceland\n- Football in Iceland\n- Foreign relations of Iceland\n- Forever (GusGus album)\n- Fóstbrœðra saga\n- Framhaldsskólinn í Vestmannaeyjum\n- Freydís Eiríksdóttir\n- Fréttablaðið\n- Fréttir\n- Friðrik Klemenz Sophusson\n- Friðrik Ólafsson\n- Friðrik Þór Friðriksson\n- FRISK Software International\n- Frjáls þjóð\n- Frostastaðavatn\n- Fræbbblarnir\n- Fylkir\n- Fylkisvöllur\n\n- Gabríela Friðriksdóttir\n- Gamli gnævaðarskáld\n- Gardar Svavarsson\n- Garðabær\n- Garðar Thór Cortes\n- Garður\n- Geir H. Haarde\n- Geir Haarde\n- Geir Hallgrímsson\n- Geirfuglasker\n- Geirlug The King's Daughter\n- Geography of Iceland\n- Geology of Iceland\n- Georg Hólm\n- Georgia Björnsson\n- Geothermal (geology)\n- Geothermal power in Iceland\n- Gerður Kristný\n- Geysir\n- GIF Sundsvall\n- Gisli Gudjonsson\n- Gisli\n- Gissur Einarsson\n- Gissur Ísleifsson\n- Gissur Þorvaldsson\n- Gísla saga\n- Gísli Pálsson\n- Gjáin\n- Glaciers of Iceland\n- Gleðibankinn\n- Glerá\n- Glima\n- Gling-Gló\n- Glitnir (bank)\n- Glitnir banki\n- Gljúfrasteinn\n- Glósóli\n- Glúmr Geirason\n- Glymur\n- Go Go Smear the Poison Ivy\n- Goðafoss\n- Golden Circle (Iceland)\n- Government of Iceland\n- Grafarvogur\n- Gramm (record label)\n- Greatest Hits (Björk album)\n- Greenland\n- Grettir Ásmundarson\n- Grettis saga\n- Grétar Hjartarson\n- Grétar Steinsson\n- Grindavík\n- Grindavíkurvöllur\n- Grímsey Airport\n- Grímsey\n- Grímsnes- og Grafningshreppur\n- Grímsnes\n- Grímsvötn\n- Grímur Jónsson Thorkelin\n- Grímur Thomsen\n- Grœnlendinga saga\n- Grundarfjörður\n- Grundarhverfi\n- Grænalón\n- Gudmundur Fjelsted\n- Guðbergur Bergsson\n- Guðbrandsbiblía\n- Guðbrandur Vigfússon\n- Guðbrandur Þorláksson\n- Guðjón Arnar Kristjánsson\n- Guðjón Már Guðjónsson\n- Guðjón Samúelsson\n- Guðjón Þórðarson\n- Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson\n- Guðmundur Andri Thorsson\n- Guðmundur Arason\n- Guðmundur Finnbogason\n- Guðmundur G. Hagalín\n- Guðmundur Guðmundsson (handball)\n- Guðmundur Guðmundsson (Mormon)\n- Guðmundur Gunnarsson\n- Guðmundur Jónsson\n- Guðmundur Kamban\n- Guðmundur Torfason\n- Guðni Ágústsson\n- Guðni Bergsson\n- Guðni Ólafur Guðnason\n- Guðríðr Þorbjarnardóttir\n- Guðríður Símonardóttir\n- Guðríður Þorbjarnardóttir\n- Guðrún Bjarnadóttir\n- Guðrún Eva Mínervudóttir\n- Guðrún Helgadóttir\n- Guðrún Katrín Þorbergsdóttir\n- Guðrún\n- Guerilla Disco\n- Gullfoss\n- Gull-Þóris saga\n- Gunnar Birgisson\n- Gunnar Gíslason (businessman)\n- Gunnar Gíslason\n- Gunnar Gunnarsson\n- Gunnar Hansen\n- Gunnar Hámundarson\n- Gunnar Heiðar Þorvaldsson\n- Gunnar Kvaran\n- Gunnar Pétursson\n- Gunnar Thor Gunnarsson\n- Gunnar Thoroddsen\n- Gunnar Thorvaldson\n- Gunnars saga Keldugnúpsfífls\n- Gunnfríður Jónsdóttir\n- Gunnlaugr Leifsson\n- Gunnlaugr Ormstunga\n- Gunnlaugs saga\n- Gunnlaugur Jónsson\n- Gunnsteinn Ólafsson\n- Gus Gus vs. T-World\n- GusGus\n- Gylfi Einarsson\n- Gylfi Þ. Gíslason\n- Gyrðir Elíasson\n\n- Habogi\n- Hafdís Huld\n- Hafliði Hallgrímsson\n- Hafnarfjörður\n- Hafskip\n- Hagar (company)\n- Hagkaup\n- Hallar-Steinn\n- Halldor Laxness\n- Halldór Ásgrímsson\n- Halldór Blöndal\n- Halldór Laxness\n- Halldóra Eldjárn\n- Halldórr skvaldri\n- Hallfreðar saga\n- Hallfreðr vandræðaskáld\n- Hallgrímskirkja\n- Hallgrímur Helgason\n- Hallgrímur Pétursson\n- Hallstahammars SK\n- HAM (band)\n- Handknattleiksfélag Kópavogs\n- Hannes Hafstein\n- Hannes Hólmsteinn Gissurarson\n- Hannes Sigurðsson\n- Hannes Stefansson\n- Hannibal Valdimarsson\n- Hans of Denmark\n- Harald Fairhair\n- Haraldur Freyr Guðmundsson\n- Haraldur Sigurdsson\n- Harðar saga ok Hólmverja\n- Harlequin duck\n- Hati Hróðvitnisson\n- Hauganes\n- Haugbrot\n- Haukadalur\n- Haukdælir family clan\n- Hauksbók\n- Haukur Halldórsson\n- Haukur Ingi Guðnason\n- Haukur Tómasson\n- Havnar Bóltfelag\n- Háifoss\n- Hákarl\n- Hásteinsvöllur\n- Hávarðar saga Ísfirðings\n- HB Grandi\n- Heaven (Eurovision song)\n- Hegningarhúsið\n- Heidar Geir Juliusson\n- Heidmork\n- Heiðar Helguson\n- Heiðarvíga saga\n- Heima\n- Heimaey stave church\n- Heimaey\n- Heimari Dalur\n- Heimdallur (organisation)\n- Heimssýn\n- Hekla\n- Helgafell\n- Helge (name)\n- Helgi and Finnbogi\n- Helgi Daníelsson (disambiguation)\n- Helgi Grétarsson\n- Helgi Ólafsson\n- Helgi Sigurðsson\n- Helgi Tómasson (disambiguation)\n- Helgi Valdimarsson\n- Helgi Þór Arason\n- Hella, Iceland\n- Hellerup IK\n- Hellissandur\n- Hellnahellir\n- Hemmingsmarks IF\n- Hengifoss\n- Hengill\n- Henry Einarson\n- Herbert Guðmundsson\n- Herbert H. Ágústsson\n- Herðubreið\n- Hermann Gunnarsson\n- Hermann Hreiðarsson\n- Hermann Jónasson\n- Hermann Pálsson\n- Hið íslenska bókmenntafélag\n- High Icelandic\n- Highlands of Iceland\n- Hildur Guðnadóttir\n- Hildur Vala Einarsdóttir\n- Hilmar Grétarsson\n- Hilmar Örn Hilmarsson\n- Hilmir Snær Guðnason\n- History of Iceland\n- History of Landsbanki\n- History of the Jews in Iceland\n- HIVE (ISP)\n- Hjalti Skeggiason\n- Hjálmar Jónsson (footballer)\n- Hjálmar Þórarinsson\n- Hjörleifur Hródmarsson\n- Hjörtur Logi Valgarðsson\n- Hlemmur (film)\n- Hlemmur (soundtrack)\n- Hlemmur (terminal)\n- Hlíðarendi (stadium)\n- Hlíðarendi\n- Hlíðarfjall\n- Hljómalind\n- Hlöðufell\n- Hoffell\n- Hofi Karlsdottir\n- Hofsá\n- Hofsjökull\n- Hofsós\n- Hoppípolla\n- Hornafjörður Airport\n- Horned lark\n- Hostel (2005 film)\n- How Geirald the Coward was Punished\n- Höfðaletur\n- Hólar University College\n- Hólar\n- Hólmavík\n- Hólmfríður Karlsdóttir\n- Hóp (Iceland)\n- Hrafn Gunnlaugsson\n- Hrafn Haengsson\n- Hrafnkels saga\n- Hrana saga hrings\n- Hraunfossar\n- Hraunhafnartangi\n- Hreðavatn\n- Hreiðar Már Sigurðsson\n- Hrísey\n- Hrokkinskinna\n- Hrunamannahreppur\n- Hrútafjörður\n- Hugleikur Dagsson\n- Hulda (manuscript)\n- Hulda (poet)\n- Húnaflói\n- Húnaþing vestra\n- Húsafell\n- Húsasmiðjan\n- Húsavík Airport\n- Húsavík\n- Hvalfjarðarstrandarhreppur\n- Hvalfjarðarsveit\n- Hvalfjörður Tunnel\n- Hvalfjörður\n- Hvalvatn\n- Hvammsfjörður\n- Hvammstangi\n- Hvannadalshnúkur\n- Hvarf/Heim\n- Hvassaleiti\n- Hvassaleitisskóli\n- Hveragerði\n- Hvítavatn\n- Hvítárvatn\n- Hvolsvöllur\n- Hægt og hljótt\n- Hænsna-Þóris saga\n- Hættuleg hljómsveit & glæpakvendið Stella\n- Höfðatorg Tower 1\n- Höfði\n- Höfn\n- Höfuðlausnir\n\n- IATA airport code\n- ICAO airport code\n- Icebank\n- Icejet\n- Iceland (film)\n- Iceland Academy of the Arts\n- Iceland Air Defence System\n- Iceland at the Olympics\n- Iceland Davis Cup team\n- Iceland Defense Force\n- Iceland Express Destinations\n- Iceland Express\n- Iceland Fed Cup team\n- Iceland gull\n- Iceland hotspot\n- Iceland in the Eurovision Song Contest\n- Iceland International (badminton)\n- Iceland national basketball team\n- Iceland national football team\n- Iceland national handball team\n- Iceland national ice hockey team\n- Iceland Ombudsman\n- Iceland plume\n- Iceland Review\n- Iceland spar\n- Iceland Stock Exchange\n- Iceland Symphony Orchestra\n- Iceland topics\n- Iceland University of Education\n- Iceland women's national football team\n- Iceland\n- Icelandair Group\n- Icelandair\n- Icelanders\n- Icelandic Airlines Flight LL 001\n- Icelandic alphabet\n- Icelandic American\n- Icelandic Americans\n- Icelandic beer\n- Icelandic Canadian\n- Icelandic cattle\n- Icelandic Chess Championship\n- Icelandic Coast Guard\n- Icelandic Commonwealth\n- Icelandic cow\n- Icelandic Crisis Response Unit\n- Icelandic diplomatic missions\n- Icelandic Elf School\n- Icelandic Evangelical Lutheran Synod of America\n- Icelandic exonyms\n- Icelandic Federation of Labour\n- Icelandic folk music\n- Icelandic football league system\n- Icelandic funeral\n- Icelandic Geographic\n- Icelandic grammar\n- Icelandic heraldry\n- Icelandic hip hop\n- Icelandic horse\n- Icelandic hydroelectric power stations\n- Icelandic króna\n- Icelandic króna\n- Icelandic Language Day\n- Icelandic Language Institute\n- Icelandic language\n- Icelandic language\n- Icelandic Literary Prize\n- Icelandic Literary Society\n- Icelandic literature\n- Icelandic Low\n- Icelandic magical staves\n- Icelandic Manuscript, SÁM 66\n- Icelandic Movement - Living Land\n- Icelandic name\n- Icelandic National Badminton Championships\n- Icelandic National Day\n- Icelandic national ice hockey team\n- Icelandic nationalism\n- Icelandic nationality law\n- Icelandic New Energy\n- Icelandic orthography\n- Icelandic passport\n- Icelandic Phallological Museum\n- Icelandic phonology\n- Icelandic Police\n- Icelandic presidential elections\n- Icelandic referendum, 1944\n- Icelandic rock\n- Icelandic sheep\n- Icelandic Sheepdog\n- Icelandic Sign Language\n- Icelandic Society for American Football\n- Icelandic Student Loan Fund\n- Icelandic tail-cap\n- Icelandic turf houses\n- Icelandic vocabulary\n- Icelandic weddings\n- Icelandic Wikipedia\n- Iceland's Bell\n- Iceland-United States relations\n- Icesave dispute\n- ICEX 15\n- ICGV Óðinn\n- ICGV Týr\n- ICGV Ægir\n- Idol stjörnuleit\n- If I Had Your Love\n- Imagine Peace Tower\n- Incisor\n- Independence Party (Iceland)\n- Independence Party (Iceland, historical)\n- Independent People\n- Indigo bunting\n- Indriði G. Þorsteinsson\n- Indriði Indriðason\n- Indriði Sigurðsson\n- Industria (company)\n- Ingibjörg Haraldsdóttir\n- Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir\n- Ingimar Ingaldson\n- Ingólfur Arnarson\n- Innari Dalur\n- Internet in Iceland\n- Invasion of Iceland\n- Islam in Iceland\n\n- Í skugga hrafnsins\n- Ísafjarðarbær\n- Ísafjarðardjúp\n- Ísafjörður Airport\n- Ísafjörður\n- Ísafold\n- Ísak Harðarson\n- Ísbjarnarblús\n- Íslandspóstur\n- Ísleifur Gissurarson\n- Íslendinga saga\n- Íslendingabók\n- Íslenska Ásatrúarfélagið\n- Íslenski draumurinn\n- Íslenzk Fornrit\n- Ívar Ingimarsson\n- Ívar Stefánsson\n- Íþróttabandalag Akraness\n- Íþróttabandalag Vestmannaeyja\n- Íþróttafélag Reykjavíkur\n\n- Jack snipe\n- Jakob Jóhann Sveinsson\n- Jakob Sigurðarson\n- Jakobínarína\n- James Robinson (footballer born 1982)\n- Jan Janszoon\n- Janet Parshall\n- Janis Johnson\n- Jar City (film)\n- Jar City\n- Jean-Baptiste Baudoin\n- Jermaine Palmer\n- JetX Airlines\n- Jim Bett\n- Jinx (Quarashi album)\n- JIPPO\n- Joannes Gijsen\n- Johánnes Gunnarsson\n- John H. Edmison\n- John Ingebrigtson\n- John K. Samson\n- Jon Gustafsson\n- Jòn Rögnvalsson\n- Jon Stephenson von Tetzchner\n- Joseph Donaldson\n- Jóhann Birnir Guðmundsson\n- Jóhann Hafstein\n- Jóhann Hjartarson\n- Jóhann Jóhannsson\n- Jóhann Sigurjónsson\n- Jóhanna Vala Jónsdóttir\n- Jóhannes Ásbjörnsson\n- Jóhannes Eðvaldsson\n- Jóhannes Harðarson\n- Jóhannes Helgason\n- Jóhannes Jónsson\n- Jóhannes Karl Guðjónsson\n- Jóhannes Sveinsson Kjarval\n- Jóhannes úr Kötlum\n- Jólabókaflóð\n- Jólnir\n- Jón Arason\n- Jón Arnar Magnússon\n- Jón Arnór Stefánsson\n- Jón Árnason (author)\n- Jón Ásgeir Jóhannesson\n- Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson\n- Jón Gnarr\n- Jón Halldórsson (bishop)\n- Jón Helgason (disambiguation)\n- Jón Hnefill Aðalsteinsson\n- Jón Hreggviðsson\n- Jón Jósep Snæbjörnsson\n- Jón Kalman Stefánsson\n- Jón korpur Hrafnsson\n- Jón Kristjánsson\n- Jón Leifs\n- Jón Loftsson\n- Jón Magnússon (author)\n- Jón Magnússon (politician)\n- Jón Ólafsson (journalist)\n- Jón Páll Sigmarsson\n- Jón Sigurðsson\n- Jón Sveinsson\n- Jón Thoroddsen elder\n- Jón Thoroddsen junior\n- Jón Thoroddsen junior\n- Jón Trausti Sigurðarson\n- Jón Þorláksson\n- Jón Þór Birgisson\n- Jón Ögmundsson\n- Jón\n- Jónas Hallgrímsson\n- Jónas Kristjánsson\n- Judaism in Iceland\n- Judith Ingolfsson\n- Julian Johnsson\n- June Gudmundsdottir\n- Júlíana Sveinsdóttir\n- Jyväskylän Jalkapalloklubi\n- Jökulsá á Fjöllum\n- Jökulsárgljúfur National Park\n- Jökulsárlón\n- Jönköpings Södra IF\n- Jöns Gerekesson\n- Jørgen Jørgensen\n\n- K.R. Basket Reykjavik\n- Kaldidalur\n- Kalli Bjarni - Kalli Bjarni\n- Kalli Bjarni\n- Kaplakriki\n- Kari Solmundarson\n- Kastljós\n- Katla volcano\n- Kaupthing Bank\n- Kaupþing\n- Kárahnjúkar Hydropower Plant\n- Kári Árnason\n- Kári Árnason (footballer, born 1944)\n- Kári Stefánsson\n- Keflavík men's basketball\n- Keflavík women's basketball\n- Keflavík Football Club\n- Keflavík International Airport\n- Keflavík ÍF\n- Keflavík\n- Keflavíkurvöllur\n- Kenning\n- Kerið\n- Kerling (Iceland)\n- Kerlingarfjöll\n- Ketil Trout (Iceland)\n- Keyta\n- KFÍ\n- Kingdom of Iceland\n- Kirkjubæjarklaustur\n- Kisa the Cat\n- Kitchen Motors Family Album/Fjölskyldualbúm Tilraunaeldhússins\n- KÍ Klaksvík (women)\n- KÍ Klaksvík\n- Kjalnesinga saga\n- Kjartan Finnbogason\n- Kjartan Ólafsson\n- Kjartan Sveinsson\n- Kjósarsýsla\n- Kjölur\n- KK (musician)\n- Klara Ósk Elíasdóttir\n- Klassart\n- Kleifarvatn\n- Klepp IL\n- Klængur Þorsteinsson\n- Knattleikr\n- Knattspyrnudeild UMFG\n- Knattspyrnufélag Akureyrar\n- Knattspyrnufélag Reykjavíkur\n- Knattspyrnufélagið Fram\n- Knattspyrnufélagið Víkingur\n- Knattspyrnufélagið Þróttur\n- Kokkolan Palloveikot\n- Kolaportið\n- Kolbeinn Tumason\n- Kolbeinn ungi Arnórsson\n- Kolbeinsey\n- Kolbotn Fotball\n- Kolding Boldklub\n- Kollafjørður\n- Kollóttadyngja\n- Kormákr Ögmundarson\n- Kormáks saga\n- Korsvoll IL\n- Kókómjólk\n- Kópavogskirkja\n- Kópavogsvöllur\n- Kópavogur\n- Krafla\n- Kringlan\n- Kristiansund BK\n- Kristinn Ármannsson\n- Kristinn Sigmundsson\n- Kristín Anna Valtýsdóttir\n- Kristín Ingólfsdóttir\n- Kristín Marja Baldursdóttir\n- Kristín Ómarsdóttir\n- Kristín Steinsdóttir\n- Kristjana Gunnars\n- Kristján Arason\n- Kristján B. Jónasson\n- Kristján Eldjárn\n- Kristján Finnbogason\n- Kristján Gudmundsson\n- Kristján Jóhannsson\n- Kristján Jónsson\n- Kristján Þór Júlíusson\n- Kristján Örn Sigurðsson\n- Kristmann Guðmundsson\n- Kristnihald undir Jökli\n- Krossá (Markarfljót)\n- Króka-Refs saga\n- KR-völlur\n- Krýsuvík\n- KUKL (group)\n- KUKL à Paris 14.9.84\n- Kurr\n- Kverkfjöll\n- Kvíslavatn\n\n- Laddi\n- Lady of the mountain\n- Lagarfljót\n- Laki (volcano)\n- Laki\n- Landakotskirkja\n- Landakotsskóli\n- Landmannalaugar\n- Landnámabók\n- Landsbanki\n- Landsflug\n- Landspítali Háskólasjúkrahús\n- Landsvirkjun\n- Landvarnarflokkurinn\n- Landvættir\n- Langanesbyggð\n- Langisjór\n- Langjökull\n- Langspil\n- Languages of Iceland\n- Laniidae\n- Lapland longspur\n- Laufabrauð\n- Laugardalshöll\n- Laugardalsvöllur\n- Laugardælir\n- Laugarvatn\n- Laugaskóli\n- Laugavegur (Reykjavík)\n- Laugavegur\n- Laughing gull\n- Law enforcement in Iceland\n- Law of Iceland\n- Laxdœla saga\n- Lay Low\n- LazyTown - The New Album\n- LazyTown (soundtrack)\n- LazyTown DVDs\n- LazyTown\n- Lárus Halldór Grímsson\n- Lárus List\n- Lárus Sigurðsson\n- Látrabjarg\n- Leach's storm-petrel\n- Leaves (Icelandic band)\n- Led Zeppelin Tour of Iceland, Bath and Germany, Summer 1970\n- Left-Green Movement\n- Leiðarhólmsskrá\n- Leif Ericson\n- Leif\n- Leiftur Ólafsfjörður\n- Leiknir Reykjavík\n- Leirvík ÍF\n- Leyndardómar Reykjavíkur 2000\n- LGBT rights in Iceland\n- Liberal Party (Iceland)\n- Liberalism and centrism in Iceland\n- Libertarian Society of Iceland\n- Linda Pétursdóttir\n- Linda Thorson\n- Linda Vilhjálmsdóttir\n- Linguistic purism in Icelandic\n- List of airports in Iceland\n- List of Bad Taste artists\n- List of bands from Iceland\n- List of banks in Iceland\n- List of birds of Iceland\n- List of companies listed on the Iceland Stock Exchange\n- List of diplomatic missions in Iceland\n- List of flags of Iceland\n- List of football clubs in Iceland\n- List of Hólar bishops\n- List of Icelanders\n- List of Icelandic artists\n- List of Icelandic films\n- List of Icelandic writers\n- List of Icelandic language poets\n- List of Icelandic submissions for Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film\n- List of Icelandic writers\n- List of islands off Iceland\n- List of lakes in Iceland\n- List of LazyTown episodes\n- List of mammals in Iceland\n- List of Mayors of Reykjavik\n- List of museums in Iceland\n- List of national parks of Iceland\n- List of newspapers in Iceland\n- List of political parties in Iceland\n- List of rulers of Iceland\n- List of schools in Iceland\n- List of settlements in Iceland\n- List of shopping malls in Iceland\n- List of Skálholt bishops\n- List of tallest buildings in Iceland\n- List of tallest structures in Iceland\n- List of universities in Iceland\n- List of valleys of Iceland\n- List of volcanoes in Iceland\n- Litla-Hraun\n- Litli-Jón\n- Ljósufjöll\n- Ljósvetninga saga\n- Lofsöngur\n- Loftleiðir\n- Loftmynd\n- Loftur Sæmundsson\n- Loksins erum við engin\n- Longwave radio mast Hellissandur\n- Lopapeysa\n- Louisa Matthíasdóttir\n- Lónsöræfi\n- Lundey\n- Lögberg\n\n- Magni Ásgeirsson\n- Magnolia warbler\n- Magnus III of Norway\n- Magnus Magnusson\n- Magnús Einarsson\n- Magnús Eiríksson\n- Magnús Gissurarson\n- Magnús Guðmundsson (politician)\n- Magnús Jónsson\n- Magnús Scheving\n- Magnús Ver Magnússon\n- Magnús Þorsteinsson\n- Magnús Þór Hafsteinsson\n- Mallard\n- Marc Goodfellow\n- Marel Baldvinsson\n- Margaret I of Denmark\n- Margrét Hermanns Auðardóttir\n- Margrét Vilhjálmsdóttir\n- Mariebergs IK\n- María Ellingsen\n- Mark McNally (footballer)\n- Mark Ward (footballer born 1962)\n- Markarfljót\n- Markús Örn Antonsson\n- Marsh warbler\n- Marteinn Geirsson\n- Matthías Jochumsson\n- Matthías Kristjánsson\n- Matthías Vilhjálmsson\n- Maus (band)\n- Mayor of Kópavogur\n- MB Miðvágur\n- Meadow pipit\n- Media in Iceland\n- Media of Iceland\n- Medúlla\n- Megas (album)\n- Megas 1972-2002\n- Megas\n- Melodious warbler\n- Memoir of Halldór Laxness\n- Menningarnótt\n- Menntaskóli\n- Menntaskólinn Hraðbraut\n- Menntaskólinn í Kópavogi\n- Menntaskólinn í Reykjavík\n- Menntaskólinn við Hamrahlíð\n- Menntaskólinn við Sund\n- Mezzoforte (band)\n- Michael Pärt Músík ehf.\n- Miðfjörður\n- Military of Iceland\n- Minister for Foreign Affairs of Iceland\n- Minister for Iceland\n- Minister of Finance of Iceland\n- Minister of Foreign Affairs of Iceland\n- Ministry of Education, Science and Culture (Iceland)\n- Minn hinsti dans\n- Miranda (Tappi Tíkarrass album)\n- Miss Iceland\n- Miss World\n- Mínus\n- Mjóifjörður\n- Mjötviður Mær\n- Mjötviður til Fóta\n- Morgunblaðið\n- Mosfellsbær\n- Móðuharðindin\n- Muggur\n- Mugison\n- Municipalities of Iceland\n- Munkaþverá\n- Music of Iceland\n- Múm\n- My Summer As A Salvation Soldier (þórir)\n- Mysticeti\n- Mýrasýsla\n- Mýrdalshreppur\n- Mýrdalsjökull\n- Mývatn\n- Möðruvallabók\n\n- Naddoddr\n- National and University Library of Iceland\n- National anthem of Iceland\n- National Assembly of 1851\n- National Bank of Iceland\n- National Church of Iceland\n- National Gallery of Iceland\n- National Museum of Iceland\n- National Theatre of Iceland\n- Nationalist Party (Iceland)\n- Natural arch\n- Nauthólsvík\n- Naval Air Station Keflavik\n- Náttfari\n- Nei eða já\n- Nesjavellir\n- Neskaupstaður\n- New Force (Iceland)\n- New Iceland Heritage Museum\n- New mammal species\n- NFS (news service)\n- Niceland (Population. 1.000.002)\n- Niels Finsen\n- Nína Tryggvadóttir\n- Njáll Þorgeirsson\n- Njáls saga\n- Norðfjörður\n- Norðurá (Borgarfjörður)\n- Norður-Ísafjarðarsýsla\n- Norðurljós\n- Norður-Múlasýsla\n- Norðurmýri\n- Norðurturninn\n- Norðurþing\n- Norður-Þingeyjarsýsla\n- Norsemen\n- Northeastern Region (Iceland)\n- Northwestern Region (Iceland)\n- Nóttin Langa\n- N-rule\n- NSÍ Runavík\n- Núna\n- Nyköpings BIS\n- Nylon (band)\n- Nyrðra-Vatnalautavatn\n- Ný batterí\n- Nýtt líf\n- Nætur\n\n- Oddaverjar family clan\n- Oddi\n- Oddr Snorrason\n- Oddur Pétursson\n- Odin's Raven Magic\n- OECD\n- Olaf de Fleur\n- Olafur Eliasson\n- Old Covenant (Iceland)\n- Old Norse poetry\n- OMX Iceland 15\n- OMX\n- On Top (film)\n- Open Your Heart (Eurovision song)\n- Operation Ikarus\n- Order of the Falcon\n- Orkuveita Reykjavíkur\n- Orri Páll Dýrason\n- Orri Vigfússon\n\n- Ófærufoss\n- Ólafsfjörður\n- Ólafsvík\n- Ólafur Darri Ólafsson\n- Ólafur Egilsson\n- Ólafur F. Magnússon\n- Ólafur Gottskálksson\n- Ólafur Haukur Símonarson\n- Ólafur Ingi Skúlason\n- Ólafur Jóhann Ólafsson\n- Ólafur Jóhann Sigurðsson\n- Ólafur Jóhannesson (coach)\n- Ólafur Jóhannesson\n- Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson\n- Ólafur Stefánsson\n- Ólafur Thors\n- Ólafur Þórðarson (footballer)\n- Ólafur Örn Bjarnason\n- Ólafur\n- Óláfr Þórðarson\n- Ólöf Arnalds\n- Ómar Ragnarsson\n- Ópera\n- Óskar Halldórsson\n- Óttarr svarti\n\n- Parliament of Iceland\n- Passion Hymns\n- Patreksfjörður Airport\n- Patreksfjörður\n- Paul Oscar\n- Paul Thorlakson\n- Páll Guðmundsson\n- Páll Jónsson\n- Páll Magnússon\n- Páll Melsteð (amtmann)\n- Páll Melsteð (historian)\n- Páll Skúlason\n- People's Alliance (Iceland)\n- People's Unity Party – Socialist Party\n- Perlan\n- Peter Bjornson\n- Peter Phelps\n- Peter Ronson\n- Peter Steele\n- Pétur Blöndal\n- Pétur Guðmundsson (disambiguation)\n- Pétur Gunnarsson\n- Pétur Marteinsson\n- Pétur Pétursson\n- Pétur Þorsteinsson\n- Plateau\n- Please Smile My Noise Bleed\n- Poetic Edda\n- Politics of Iceland\n- Post (Björk album)\n- Postage stamps and postal history of Iceland\n- PP-70\n- President of Iceland\n- Prestahnúkur\n- Prime Minister of Iceland\n- Prince Rajcomar\n- Prince Ring\n- Procellariidae\n- Progressive Party (Iceland)\n- Prose Edda\n- Prostitution in Iceland\n- Prunellidae\n- Public holidays in Iceland\n- Public transport in Iceland\n\n- QBIK\n- Quarashi (album)\n- Quarashi\n- Quickfire\n- Quirky subject\n\n- Ragna Sigurðardóttir\n- Ragnar Arnalds\n- Ragnar Axelsson\n- Ragnar Bragason\n- Ragnar Margeirsson\n- Ragnar Sigurðsson\n- Ragnheiður Gröndal\n- Ragnheiður Jónsdóttir\n- Ragnhildur Steinunn Jónsdóttir\n- Rail transport in Iceland\n- Randy Thorsteinson\n- Rangárvallasýsla\n- Rangárþing eystra\n- Rangárþing ytra\n- Rannveig Guðmundsdóttir\n- Rasmus Christian Rask\n- Raufoss IL\n- Razorbill\n- Ráðhús Reykjavíkur\n- Rás 1\n- Rás 2\n- Reading F.C.\n- Rebekka Guðleifsdóttir\n- Recurvirostridae\n- Regions of Iceland\n- Religion in Iceland\n- Religion in present-day nations and states\n- Remote Control (1992 film)\n- Renewable energy in Iceland\n- RES - The School for Renewable Energy Science\n- Reyðarfjörður\n- Reyka\n- Reykárhverfi\n- Reykdœla saga ok Víga-Skútu\n- Reykholt, Southern Iceland\n- Reykholt, Western Iceland\n- Reykjahlíð\n- Reykjanes\n- Reykjanesbær\n- Reykjavik Internet Exchange\n- Reykjavik to Rotterdam (2005)\n- Reykjavik to Rotterdam (2007)\n- Reykjavik, Manitoba\n- Reykjavík 871±2\n- Reykjavík Airport\n- Reykjavík College of Music\n- Reykjavík International Film Festival\n- Reykjavík Theatre Company\n- Reykjavík University\n- Reykjavík\n- Reynisdrangar\n- River\n- Rivers of Iceland\n- Ríkarður Jónsson\n- Ríkharður Daðason\n- Ríkharður Jónsson\n- Rímur (album)\n- Rímur\n- Road signs in Iceland\n- Rokk í Reykjavík (soundtrack)\n- Rokk í Reykjavík\n- Roman Catholic Diocese of Reykjavík\n- Roman Catholicism in Iceland\n- Rook (bird)\n- Rough-legged buzzard\n- Round Iceland\n- Route 1 (Iceland)\n- Róbert Ingi Douglas\n- Rúnar Kristinsson\n- Rúrik Gíslason\n- RÚV\n- Rökkvi Vésteinsson\n\n- Saga Borgarættarinnar (film)\n- Saga of Eric the Red\n- Saga\n- Sagas of Iceland — The History of the Vikings Volume 1\n- Sagas of Icelanders\n- Saint Thorlak\n- Samherji\n- Samtökin '78\n- Sand martin\n- Sandgerði\n- Sauðanes\n- Sauðárkrókur\n- Savings bank\n- Screaming Masterpiece\n- Seabear\n- Selá (Vopnafjörður)\n- Selárdalur\n- Selfoss (town)\n- Selfoss (waterfall)\n- Seljalandsfoss\n- Selma Björnsdóttir\n- Seltjarnarnes\n- Sena (record company)\n- Settlement of Iceland\n- Seyðisfjörður\n- Siberian rubythroat\n- Sidmennt\n- Sif Aradóttir\n- Sigfús Eymundsson\n- Siglufjordur Airport\n- Siglufjörður\n- Sigmar Vilhjálmsson\n- Sigrún Stefánsdóttir\n- Sigtið\n- Sigtryggur Baldursson\n- Sigtryggur Jonasson\n- Sigur Rós discography\n- Sigur Rós\n- Sigurdur Helgason (airline executive)\n- Sigurdur Helgason (mathematician)\n- Sigurdur Thorarinsson\n- Sigurður Bragason\n- Sigurður Breiðfjörð\n- Sigurður Eggerz\n- Sigurður Grétarsson\n- Sigurður Jónsson (disambiguation)\n- Sigurður Kári Kristjánsson\n- Sigurður Nordal\n- Sigurður Þorvaldsson\n- Sigurður Þórarinsson\n- Sigurjón Kjartansson\n- Sigurjón Sighvatsson\n- Sigurlín Margrét Sigurðardóttir\n- Sigurrós Þorgrímsdóttir\n- Sigurrós\n- Sigvatr Þórðarson\n- Sigöldulón\n- Silence of the Grave\n- Silvía Night\n- Silvía Nótt\n- Sindri Sindrason\n- Sinfónía\n- Sirkus TV\n- Sittidae\n- Síminn\n- Símun Samuelsen\n- Sjáumst með Silvíu Nótt\n- Sjón\n- Sjónvarpið\n- Sjúbídú\n- Skaftafell National Park\n- Skaftafell\n- Skaftárhreppur\n- Skagafjarðarsýsla\n- Skagafjörður Municipality\n- Skagafjörður\n- Skagaströnd\n- Skald\n- Skalla-Grímr\n- Skaptar\n- Skapti Þóroddsson\n- Skála ÍF\n- Skálholt\n- Ske\n- Skeiða- og Gnúpverjahreppur\n- Skeiðará\n- Skíðaríma\n- Skjaldbreiður\n- Skjálfandafljót\n- Skjálfandi\n- Skjár 1\n- SkjárEinn\n- Skjárinn\n- Skjöldunga saga\n- Skorradalsvatn\n- Skógafoss\n- Skógar\n- Skuli Sigfusson\n- Skúli Sverrisson\n- Skúli Þórsteinsson\n- Skyr\n- Skytturnar (soundtrack)\n- Smáralind\n- Smáratorg tower\n- Smew\n- Smiður Andrésson\n- Snorrason Holdings\n- Snorri Hergill Kristjánsson\n- Snorri Hjartarson\n- Snorri Snorrason\n- Snorri Steinn Guðjónsson\n- Snorri Sturluson\n- Snorri Þorfinnsson\n- Snæfellsbær\n- Snæfellsjökull National Park\n- Snæfellsjökull\n- Snæfellsnes- og Hnappadalssýsla\n- Snæfellsnes\n- Social Democratic Alliance\n- Social Democratic Party (Iceland)\n- Southern Region (Iceland)\n- Sólstafir\n- Sólveig Pétursdóttir\n- Sparisjóður Reykjavíkur og nágrennis\n- Spaugstofan\n- Spillt\n- Sport in Iceland\n- Sportacus\n- Sprengisandur\n- Stafrænn Hákon\n- Stanley (boat)\n- Stefán Gíslason\n- Stefán Hörður Grímsson\n- Stefán Jóhann Stefánsson\n- Stefán Karl Stefánsson\n- Stefán Þórðarson\n- Stefán\n- Steinar Bragi\n- Steindór Andersen\n- Steingrimur Rohloff\n- Steingrímur Hermannsson\n- Steingrímur J. Sigfússon\n- Steingrímur Steinþórsson\n- Steingrímur Thorsteinsson\n- Steinn O. Thompson\n- Steinn Steinarr\n- Steinunn Finnsdóttir\n- Steinunn Kristin Thordardottir\n- Steinunn Refsdóttir\n- Steinunn Sigurðardóttir\n- Steinunn Valdís Óskarsdóttir\n- Steller's eider\n- Step Forward\n- Stephan G. Stephansson\n- Stephanie (LazyTown)\n- Stjarnan\n- Stokkseyri\n- Stone-curlew\n- Stóra-Björnsfell\n- Strandabyggð\n- Strandasýsla\n- Straumur Investment Bank\n- Straumur-Burðarás Fjárf.banki\n- Street names in Iceland\n- Strokkur\n- Strætó bs\n- Studio Granda\n- Sturla Böðvarsson\n- Sturla Sighvatsson\n- Sturla Þórðarson\n- Sturlunga saga\n- Sturlungar family clan\n- Stykkishólmur\n- Stöð 2\n- Stöðvarfjörður\n- Subdivisions of Iceland\n- Suður-Múlasýsla\n- Suður-Þingeyjarsýsla\n- Sultartangalón\n- Summer Make Good\n- Supermarkets in Iceland\n- Supreme Court of Iceland\n- Surtsey\n- Súðavík\n- Súlur\n- Svala\n- Svarfaðardalur\n- Svarfdœla saga\n- Svartifoss\n- Svava Jakobsdóttir\n- Svefn-g-englar\n- Sveinbjörn Beinteinsson\n- Sveinbjörn Egilsson\n- Sveinbjörn Sveinbjörnsson\n- Sveinn Björnsson\n- Sveinn Einarsson\n- Sveinn Thorvaldson\n- Sveitarfélagið Vogar\n- Svínavatn\n- Svínfellingar family clan\n- Switchstance (album)\n- Sýn 2\n- Sýn\n- Sýslumaður\n- Sæglópur\n- Sæmundr fróði\n- Sævar Jónsson\n- Sögur 1980-1990\n- Sölvi Blöndal\n- Sölvi Ottesen\n\n- Table of historical exchange rates\n- Table of voting systems by nation\n- Takk...\n- Tales from the Gimli Hospital\n- Taxation in Iceland\n- Teddy Bjarnason\n- Teitur Thordarson\n- Telecommunications in Iceland\n- Telegram (album)\n- Telephone numbers in Iceland\n- Television in Iceland\n- Tell Me!\n- Temperate climate\n- Teris\n- Thayer's gull\n- The Amazing Truth About Queen Raquela\n- The Arctic Fox Center\n- The Atom Station\n- The Best Mixes from the Album Debut for All the People Who Don't Buy White Labels\n- The Boss of It All\n- The Botany of Iceland\n- The Commercial College of Iceland\n- The Cottager and his Cat\n- The Dance (1998 film)\n- The Draining Lake\n- The Elgar Sisters\n- The Eye (KUKL album)\n- The Fish Can Sing\n- The Flugumýri Arson\n- The Hamrahlid Choir\n- The Horse Gullfaxi and the Sword Gunnfoder\n- The Icelandic Dream\n- The Icelandic New Business Venture Fund\n- The Importance of Being Icelandic\n- The Juniper Tree (film)\n- The Peel Session (Múm EP)\n- The Reykjavík Grapevine\n- The Sea (2002 film)\n- The Story of Iceland\n- The Sugarcubes\n- The Turkish abductions\n- The Witch in the Stone Boat\n- The X Factor (Iceland)\n- Theosophy in Scandinavia\n- Thicker than Water (2006 film)\n- This Is My Life (Eurobandið song)\n- This Is Normal\n- Thomas Herman Johnson\n- Thor Vilhjálmsson\n- Thorbergur Thorvaldson\n- Thorfinn Karlsefni\n- Thorfinnur Omarsson\n- Thormodus Torfæus\n- Thorn (letter)\n- Thorolf Kveldulfsson\n- Thorolfsfell\n- Thor's Hammer (band)\n- Thorshofn Airport\n- Thorsteinn M. Jonsson\n- Thorvald Eriksson\n- Thorvin Eriksson\n- Timeline of Icelandic history\n- Timeline of liberal and centrist parties in Iceland\n- Tindfjallajökull\n- Tindr Hallkelsson\n- Tinna Gunnlaugsdóttir\n- Tjörnin\n- Tommy Rutter\n- Torfajökull\n- Torfhildur Þorsteinsdóttir\n- Tourism in Iceland\n- Tómas Guðmundsson\n- Tómas Lemarquis\n- Tónlistarskólinn á Akureyri\n- TP-47\n- Trabant (band)\n- Transport in Iceland\n- Transportation in Iceland\n- Trausti Valsson\n- Tríó Guðmundar Ingólfssonar\n- True North (production company)\n- Trúbrot\n- Tryggvi Guðmundsson\n- Tryggvi Þórhallsson\n- Trölladyngja\n- Tröllaskagi\n- Tungnaá\n- Tungnafellsjökull\n- Tunnels in Iceland\n- Tvíhöfði\n\n- Ungmennafélag Grindavíkur\n- Ungmennafélagið Fjölnir\n- Union of Liberals and Leftists\n- United Nations member states\n- United States Ambassador to Iceland\n- University of Akureyri\n- University of Iceland Main Building\n- University of Iceland VR\n- University of Iceland\n- Unnur Birna Vilhjálmsdóttir\n- Unnur Steinsson\n- Untitled 1 (a.k.a. Vaka)\n- Untitled 8\n- Urriðafoss\n- UT 512L OPV\n\n- Úlfljótsvatn Scout Center\n- Úlfr Uggason\n- Úrvalsdeild\n\n- Vala Flosadóttir\n- Valdís Óskarsdóttir\n- Valentine Lost\n- Valgerður Sverrisdóttir\n- Valla-Ljóts saga\n- Varmahlíð\n- Vatnafjöll\n- Vatnajökull\n- Vatnsdæla saga\n- Vatnsfirðingar family clan\n- Vatnsfjörður\n- Vatnsleysufoss\n- Vatnsnes\n- Vápnfirðinga saga\n- Vefja\n- Vehicle registration plates of Iceland\n- Veigar Páll Gunnarsson\n- Velvet scoter\n- Verzlunarskóli Íslands\n- Vespertine\n- Vestmannaeyjar Airport\n- Vestmannaeyjar\n- Vestur-Barðastrandarsýsla\n- Vesturbyggð\n- Vesturbær\n- Vestur-Húnavatnssýsla\n- Vestur-Ísafjarðarsýsla\n- Vestur-Skaftafellssýsla\n- Vetrliði Sumarliðason\n- Vésteinn Hafsteinsson\n- VG-62\n- Videy\n- Viðey\n- Viðrar vel til loftárása\n- Vigdís Finnbogadóttir\n- Vigdís Grímsdóttir\n- Vigfúss Víga-Glúmsson\n- Viktor Arnar Ingólfsson\n- Viktor Bjarki Arnarsson\n- Viktor Jensen\n- Vikurfrettir\n- Vilbaldr DufÞakrsson\n- Vilborg Dagbjartsdóttir\n- Vilborg Davíðsdóttir\n- Vilhjalmur Stefansson\n- Vilhjálmur Árnason\n- Vilhjálmur Einarsson\n- Vilhjálmur Þ. Vilhjálmsson\n- Vilmundur Gylfason\n- Vinland sagas\n- Vinland\n- Vireonidae\n- VISA-bikar\n- Víðgelmir\n- Vífilfell\n- Víga-Glúms saga\n- Víglundar saga\n- Vík í Mýrdal\n- Víkingasveitin\n- Vínbúð\n- Vísur Vatnsenda-Rósu\n- Vladimir Ashkenazy\n- Voces Thules\n- Vogar\n- Voices (Arnaldur Indriðason novel)\n- Volcanic activity\n- Volcanism in Iceland\n- Volta (album)\n- Volume\n- Von (album)\n- Von brigði\n- Vonlenska\n- Vopnafjarðarhreppur\n- Vopnafjörður Airport\n- Vopnafjörður\n- Völu-Steinn\n\n- Western Region (Iceland)\n- Westfjords\n- Whaling in Iceland\n- When the Raven Flies\n- Willum Þór Þórsson\n- Women's List\n\n- Xeneizes\n\n- Yesterday Was Dramatic – Today Is OK\n- Yrsa Sigurðardóttir\n- Ytri Dalur\n- Ytri Rangá\n- Yvonne K. Fulbright\n\n- Það sem enginn sér\n- Þagað í Hel\n- Þangbrandr\n- Þá veistu svarið\n- Þeyr\n- Þingeyjarsveit\n- Þingeyri\n- Þingvallavatn\n- Þingvellir\n- Þjóðveldisbærinn Stöng\n- Þjórsá\n- Þjórsárdalur\n- Þorbjörn dísarskáld\n- Þorgeirr Ljósvetningagoði\n- Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir\n- Þorlákshöfn\n- Þorlákur Runólfsson\n- Þorleifr jarlsskáld\n- Þorramatur\n- Þorsteinn Bachmann\n- Þorsteinn Erlingsson\n- Þorsteinn frá Hamri\n- Þorsteinn Gylfason\n- Þorsteinn J\n- Þorsteinn Pálsson\n- Þorsteins saga hvíta\n- Þorsteins saga Síðu-Hallssonar\n- Þorvaldr Ásvaldsson\n- Þorvaldr veili\n- Þorvaldur Sigbjörnsson\n- Þorvaldur Thoroddsen\n- Þorvaldur Örlygsson\n- Þór Akureyri\n- Þór Whitehead\n- Þóra Magnúsdóttir\n- Þórarinn B. Þorláksson\n- Þórarinn Eldjárn\n- Þórarinn loftunga\n- Þórarinn Skeggjason\n- Þórbergur Þórðarson\n- Þórðar saga hreðu\n- Þórðr Kolbeinsson\n- Þórðr Sjáreksson\n- Þórður Friðjónsson\n- Þórður Guðjónsson\n- Þórður kakali Sighvatsson\n- Þórey Edda Elísdóttir\n- Þórhallur Gunnarsson\n- Þórhildur Þorleifsdóttir\n- Þórir Jökull Steinfinnsson\n- Þórisjökull\n- Þórisvatn\n- Þórólfur Árnason\n- Þórshöfn\n- Þórsmörk\n- Þórvaldr Hjaltason\n- Þráinn Bertelsson\n- Þrándarjökull\n- Þrír blóðdropar\n- Þuríður Sturludóttir\n- Þú og þeir (Sókrates)\n\n- Æ\n- Æðey\n- Ægir-class offshore patrol vessel\n\n- Ölfus\n- Ölfusá\n- Ölkofra saga\n- Öndvegissúlur\n- Örlygur Smári\n- Örn Arnarson\n- Örvar Þóreyjarson Smárason\n- Öræfajökull\n- Öskjuvatn\n- Össur Skarphéðinsson\n- Össur\n- Öxará\n- Öxaráfoss\n- Öxarárfoss\n- Öxarfjörður\n"}
{"id": "19024059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19024059", "title": "Index of North Korea-related articles", "text": "Index of North Korea-related articles\n\nThis page list topics related to North Korea.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14671294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14671294", "title": "John Scott Keltie", "text": "John Scott Keltie\n\nSir John Scott Keltie (29 March 1840 – 12 January 1927) was a Scottish geographer, best known for his work with the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nKeltie was born in Dundee and attended school in Perth. He matriculated at the University of St Andrews and the University of Edinburgh. He also completed a course of study at the Theological Hall of the United Presbyterian Church in Edinburgh, but did not go into a religious career.\n\nKeltie later moved to London in 1871 to join Macmillan Publishers, where in 1873 he became sub-editor of the journal \"Nature\" and began separately to write articles on geography for \"The Times\". In 1880, he was taken on as editor of \"The Statesman's Yearbook\" for Macmillan.\n\nIn 1883, Keltie joined the Royal Geographical Society and quickly became heavily involved in its activities. He was later appointed its Inspector of Geographical Education in 1884, and undertook a thorough review of the state of geography education in the UK, producing an influential 150-page report. In 1885, he became the Society's librarian, and upon the death of Henry Walter Bates in 1892, succeeded him as Assistant Secretary of the Society (in effect its Secretary, as the official Secretary was a figurehead from the nobility). Among his first tasks was the relaunching of the \"Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society\" as the \"Geographical Journal\" in 1893, in order to appeal to a wider audience. He was officially given the title of Secretary in 1896.\n\nKeltie retired as Secretary of the Society in 1915 and was succeeded by Arthur Robert Hinks, though he remained as joint editor (with Hinks) of the \"Geographical Journal\" until 1917.\n\nHe died in London in 1927.\n\nKeltie received various awards during his long career. In 1917, he was presented the Society's Victoria Medal. He also received the Cullum Geographical Medal of the American Geographical Society, and the gold medals of the Paris and Royal Scottish Geographical Societies.\n\nIn 1918, Keltie was made a Knight Bachelor.\n\nKeltie was portrayed by Clive Francis in the 2016 film \"The Lost City of Z\".\n"}
{"id": "418385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418385", "title": "Latin Union", "text": "Latin Union\n\nThe Latin Union was an international organization of nations that used Romance languages that existed as a functional institution from 1983 to 2012. Its aim was to protect, project, and promote the common cultural heritage of Latin peoples and unifying identities of the Latin, and Latin-influenced, world. It was created in 1954 in Madrid, Spain, and its membership rose from 12 to 36 states, including countries in North America, South America, Europe, Africa, and the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nThe official names of the Latin Union were: ' in French, ' in Italian, ' in Portuguese, ' in Romanian,' in Spanish, and ' in Catalan.\n\nDue to financial difficulties, the Latin Union announced on 26 January 2012 the suspension of its activities, the dissolution of its Secretariat General (effective July 31, 2012) and termination of employment for all the organization's personnel.\n\nAccording to the Latin Union's website, membership was open to any nation that met the following criteria:\n\n\nThe official languages of the Latin Union were Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, and Catalan. Spanish, French, Italian and Portuguese were used as working languages. All the texts of general diffusion were translated into these four languages, with some also going into Romanian and Catalan.\n\nThe Union was composed of three main bodies, namely, the Congress, the Executive Council, and the General Secretariat.\n\nThe Congress, which consisted of the representatives of all the Member States, met in ordinary assembly every two years. Its main functions were\n\n\nA President and two Vice-Presidents were also elected by the Congress. Oleg Serebrian from the Republic of Moldova was the last President.\n\nThere were also two auxiliary bodies of the Congress, namely, the Commission of Adhesions and the Commission of Candidacies.\n\n\nThe Executive Council was the executive branch of the Union. It consisted of 12 Member States, which were elected by the Congress every four years, and led by a President and two Vice-Presidents, which were also elected by the Congress. \n\nThere were also two auxiliary commissions sub-ordinated to the Executive Council: \n\nThe Latin Union was directed by a Secretary-General appointed every four years by the Congress. The Secretary was in charge of the execution of the programmes and implemented the decisions made by the Congress and the Executive Council in the matter of budget and general direction. Jose Luis Dicenta Ballester was at one time Secretary-General of the Union.\n\nSubordinated to the Secretary-General, there were 4 directors:\n\nThe finance of the Union was mainly supported by the obligatory contributions from the Member States. For some activities, the Union may have collaborated with other public or private institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4285595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4285595", "title": "List of Antarctic expeditions", "text": "List of Antarctic expeditions\n\nThis list of Antarctic expeditions is a chronological list of expeditions involving Antarctica. Although the existence of a southern continent had been hypothesized as early as the writings of Ptolemy in the 1st century AD, the South Pole was not reached until 1911.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1680819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1680819", "title": "List of Google Easter eggs", "text": "List of Google Easter eggs\n\nThe technology company Google \"prides itself on being a playful company\" and has added Easter eggs and April Fools' Day jokes and hoaxes into many of its products and services, such as Google Search, YouTube, and Android since at least 2000.\n\nEaster eggs are hidden features or messages, inside jokes, and cultural references inserted into media. They are often well hidden, so that users find it gratifying when they discover them, helping form bonds between Google and its users. The Easter eggs are sometimes created by employees during their 20% time. Google avoids adding Easter eggs to popular search pages, as they do not want to negatively impact usability.\n\n As Google searches are case insensitive, search terms are listed in lower case except where case sensitivity is explicitly referenced.\n\nA Google web search for:\n\n\nA Google web search for:\n\nSearching for \" will result in a wheel that spins to one of a selection of playable Google Doodles, tools (see above) and games. Whichever is randomly selected may be opened, or the wheel may be spun again. It was added in celebration of Google's 19th birthday.\n\nLate 2011, Google added a graphical calculator to search results. By using natural language processing, Google's algorithms have calculated that the result might be mathematical in nature. Woven into this feature are several, not entirely academic, results which might be considered Easter eggs.\n\nA Google web search for:\n\nThe result of multiple Easter eggs may be calculated; for example: \"\" will return \"43\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGoogle offers interfaces for several different fictional languages. Users can set any language (except pig latin) as their preferred language in their search settings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA YouTube search for:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6714424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6714424", "title": "List of Malaysia-related topics", "text": "List of Malaysia-related topics\n\nThis is a list of topics related to Malaysia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSort by state\nKedah\n\nPenang\n\nPerak\n\nPerlis\n\nSelangor\n\nNegeri Sembilan\n\nMelaka\n\" maa.veeran.temple.50megs.com:Sri Maa Veeran Temple (Madurai Veeran Temple) ((Melaka)) \n\nJohor\n\nPahang\nTerengganu\n\nKelantan\nSabah\nSarawak\n\nWilayah Persekutuan\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nstacy angie\nintan ladyana\nlisa surihani\ndiana danielle\nliyana jasmay\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPencak Silat is the official name used to indicate more than 800 martial arts schools and styles spread across more than 18,000 islands in Indonesia. Pencak Silat is popular throughout Southeast Asia, include in Malaysia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211346", "title": "List of birds of Great Britain", "text": "List of birds of Great Britain\n\nThis list of birds of Great Britain comprises all bird species which have been recorded in a wild state in Great Britain. In general the avifauna of Britain is similar to that of the rest of Europe, although with fewer breeding species. There are 600 species of birds on the British list , the latest additions being the Dalmatian pelican (\"Pelecanus crispus\") and eastern Orphean warbler (\"Sylvia crassirostris\"). The species order and scientific names used here follow that of the official British list, maintained by the British Ornithologists' Union (BOU). Decisions relating to the British list are published by the British Ornithologists' Union Records Committee (BOURC) in its annual reports in the \"Ibis\", the journal of the BOU. These reports were formerly geographically based and included the whole of the British Isles, but records for the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland are now published by their own ornithological associations. Records from the Isle of Man, although adjudicated by the Manx Ornithological Society, continue to be published in the BOU reports.\n\nThe BOU uses the following categories for British bird species:\nCategories A, B and C constitute the Official British List. Birds can be listed in more than one category, for example the Canada goose has a large introduced population, but there have also been a few naturally occurring vagrants, so it meets the criteria for categories A and C. Two further categories are used for record keeping only.\nBirds in Categories D and E are not on the official British list and are not included here. A sixth category, Category F, is being compiled to include species recorded before 1800 including fossil species.\n\nSpecies listed as rare here are those for which a full description is required for acceptance of the record by the British Birds Rarities Committee. Other species have an indication of their breeding and wintering status in Great Britain.\n\nBecause of its mild winters, Great Britain has a considerable population of wintering species, particularly ducks, geese and swans. There are also a number of species, such as the oystercatcher, that are resident in this island, but migrants elsewhere. Also because of its position, Britain receives a number of vagrants from Asia and North America. Some American gulls, ducks and waders are regular enough not to be considered rare. These include the ring-billed gull, surf scoter and pectoral sandpiper.\n\nOrder: AnseriformesFamily: Anatidae\n\nThe swans, ducks and geese are medium to large birds that are adapted to an aquatic existence with webbed feet and bills which are flattened to a greater or lesser extent. In many ducks the male is colourful while the female is dull brown. The diet consists of a variety of animals and plants. The family is well represented in Britain, especially in winter when large numbers visit from Greenland, Scandinavia and Russia. There are about 160 species worldwide with 55 in Britain.\n\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Tetraonidae\n\nGrouse are sturdy, medium-sized terrestrial birds of the Northern Hemisphere. They have feathered feet and nostrils and short, rounded wings. They feed mainly on plant material and lay their eggs in a simple scrape on the ground. They are gamebirds and large numbers were shot in the past in moorland areas. There are about nineteen species worldwide, four in Britain.\nOrder: GalliformesFamily: Phasianidae\n\nThese are terrestrial species, feeding and nesting on the ground. They are variable in size but generally plump, with broad and relatively short wings. There are about 155 species worldwide with six in Britain. Four of these were introduced for hunting or ornamental purposes but one has now apparently died out.\nOrder: GaviiformesFamily: Gaviidae\n\nDivers are aquatic birds the size of a large duck, to which they are unrelated. They swim well and fly adequately but are almost helpless on land, because their legs are placed towards the rear of the body. They feed on fish and other aquatic animals. There are five species worldwide, all of which occur in Britain.\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Diomedeidae\n\nThe albatrosses are among the largest flying birds, with long, narrow wings for gliding. The majority are found in the Southern Hemisphere with only vagrants occurring in the North Atlantic. There are at least thirteen species worldwide with two in Britain.\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Procellariidae\n\nThese are highly pelagic birds with long, narrow wings and tube-shaped nostrils. They feed at sea on fish, squid and other marine life. They come to land to breed in colonies, nesting in burrows or on cliffs. There are about 77 species worldwide, 11 in Britain.\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Oceanitidae \n\nThe austral storm-petrels are the smallest seabirds, feeding on plankton and small fish picked from the surface, typically while hovering. They nest in colonies on the ground, most often in burrows.\nOrder: ProcellariiformesFamily: Hydrobatidae\n\nThe northern storm-petrels are the smallest seabirds, feeding on plankton and small fish picked from the surface, typically while hovering. They nest in colonies on the ground, most often in burrows.\nOrder: PhaethontiformesFamily: Phaethontidae\n\nThere is one species in Britain, only as a vagrant.\n\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Sulidae\n\nGannets are large seabirds that plunge-dive for fish and nest in large colonies. They have a torpedo-shaped body, long, narrow, pointed wings and a fairly long tail. There are about ten species worldwide with one in Britain.\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Phalacrocoracidae\n\nCormorants are medium to large aquatic birds with mainly dark plumage and areas of coloured skin on the face. The bill is long, thin and sharply hooked for catching fish and aquatic invertebrates. They nest in colonies by water, usually by the sea or on the banks of rivers. There are about thirty-nine species worldwide, three in Britain.\nOrder: SuliformesFamily: Fregatidae\n\nThere are two species in Britain, both of which are rare.\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Pelecanidae\n\nPelicans are large water birds with a distinctive pouch under their beak. As with other members of the order Pelecaniformes, they have webbed feet with four toes. There are eight species worldwide, only one recorded in Britain.\n\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Ardeidae\n\nHerons and egrets are medium to large wading birds with long necks and legs. Bitterns tend to be shorter-necked and more secretive. They all fly with their necks retracted. The sharp bill is used to catch fish, amphibians and other animals. Many species nest in colonies, often in trees. There are about 63 species worldwide, 13 in Britain.\nOrder: PelecaniformesFamily: Threskiornithidae\n\nA family of long-legged, long-necked wading birds. Ibises have long, curved bills. Spoonbils have a flattened bill, wider at the tip. There are about thirty-three species worldwide with two in Britain.\nOrder: CiconiiformesFamily: Ciconiidae\n\nStorks are large, heavy, long-legged, long-necked wading birds with long stout bills and wide wingspans. They fly with the neck extended. There are about nineteen species worldwide with two occurring as vagrants in Britain.\nOrder: PodicipediformesFamily: Podicipedidae\n\nGrebes are small to medium-large diving birds with lobed toes and pointed bills. They are seen mainly on lowland waters and coasts. They feed on aquatic animals and nest on a floating platform of vegetation. There are about nineteen species worldwide with six in Britain.\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Accipitridae\n\nA family of birds of prey which includes hawks, buzzards, eagles, kites and harriers. These birds have very large powerful hooked beaks for tearing flesh from their prey, strong legs, powerful talons and keen eyesight. There are about 240 species worldwide, 16 in Britain.\n\nOrder: AccipitriformesFamily: Pandionidae\n\nA large fish-eating bird of prey belonging to a family of its own. It is mainly brown above and white below with long, angled wings.\nOrder: FalconiformesFamily: Falconidae\n\nA family of small to medium-sized, diurnal birds of prey with pointed wings. They do not build their own nests and mainly catch prey in the air. There are about 64 species worldwide, 10 in Britain.\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Rallidae\n\nThese birds mainly occupy dense vegetation in damp environments near lakes, marshes or rivers. Many are shy and secretive birds, making them difficult to observe. Most species have strong legs and long toes which are well adapted to soft uneven surfaces. There are about 135 species worldwide, 11 in Britain.\nOrder: GruiformesFamily: Gruidae\n\nCranes are large, long-legged and long-necked birds. Unlike the similar-looking but unrelated herons, cranes fly with necks outstretched, not pulled back. Most have elaborate and noisy courting displays or \"dances\". There are about fifteen species worldwide, two in Britain.\nOrder: OtidiformesFamily: Otididae\n\nLarge, sturdy birds of open plains with long legs and necks and strong feet. There are about twenty-six species worldwide, three in Britain. They are all rarities.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Haematopodidae\n\nThe oystercatchers are large, obvious and noisy wading birds with strong bills used for smashing or prising open molluscs. There are about eleven species worldwide with one in Britain.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Recurvirostridae\n\nA family of fairly large wading birds. The avocets have long legs and long up-curved bills. The stilts have extremely long legs and long, thin, straight bills. There are about ten species worldwide with two in Britain.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Burhinidae\n\nA small family of medium to large waders with strong black bills, large yellow eyes and cryptic plumage. There are nine species worldwide with one in Britain.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Glareolidae\n\nA family of slender, long-winged wading birds. There are seventeen species worldwide, four in Britain.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Charadriidae\n\nSmall to medium-sized wading birds with compact bodies, short, thick necks and long, usually pointed, wings. There are about 66 species worldwide, 16 in Britain.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Scolopacidae\n\nA large, diverse family of wading birds. Different lengths of legs and bills enable multiple species to feed in the same habitat, particularly on the coast, without direct competition for food. There are about 89 species worldwide, 54 in Britain.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Stercorariidae\n\nMedium to large seabirds with mainly grey or brown plumage, sharp claws and a hooked tip to the bill. They chase other seabirds to force them to drop their catches. There are about seven species worldwide with four in Britain.\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Laridae\nMedium to large seabirds with grey, white and black plumage, webbed feet and strong bills. Many are opportunistic and adaptable feeders. \n\nOrder: CharadriiformesFamily: Alcidae\n\nA family of seabirds which are superficially similar to penguins, with their black-and-white colours, upright posture and some of their habits, but which are able to fly. There are about 23 species worldwide, 10 in Britain.\nOrder: PterocliformesFamily: Pteroclididae\n\nSturdy, medium-sized birds with a small head and long, pointed wings. There are sixteen species worldwide. One has occurred as a vagrant in Britain.\nOrder: ColumbiformesFamily: Columbidae\n\nPigeons and doves are stout-bodied birds with short necks and short slender bills with a fleshy cere. There are about 308 species worldwide, seven in Britain.\nOrder: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittaculidae\n\nParrots are small to large birds with a characteristic curved beak shape. They are found mainly in areas with warm climates. There is one introduced species in Britain.\nOrder: CuculiformesFamily: Cuculidae\n\nBirds of variable size with slender bodies and long tails. Some species are known for laying their eggs in the nests of other birds. There are about 141 species worldwide, four in Britain.\nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Tytonidae\n\nBarn owls are medium to large owls with large heads and characteristic heart-shaped faces. They have long strong legs with powerful talons. There are about sixteen species worldwide with one in Britain. \nOrder: StrigiformesFamily: Strigidae\n\nTypical owls are small to large solitary nocturnal birds of prey. They have large forward-facing eyes and ears, a hawk-like beak and a conspicuous circle of feathers around each eye called a facial disc. There are about 199 species worldwide, eight in Britain.\nOrder: CaprimulgiformesFamily: Caprimulgidae\n\nNightjars are medium-sized nocturnal birds that usually nest on the ground. They have long wings, short legs and very short bills. Their soft plumage is cryptically coloured to resemble bark or leaves. There are about 91 species worldwide, four in Britain.\nOrder: ApodiformesFamily: Apodidae\n\nThe swifts are small birds which spend the majority of their lives flying. These birds have very short legs and never settle voluntarily on the ground, perching instead only on vertical surfaces. There are about 100 species worldwide, seven in Britain.\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae\n\nKingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long pointed bills, short legs and stubby tails. There are about 93 species worldwide, two in Britain.\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Meropidae\n\nA group of near-passerine birds characterised by richly coloured plumage, slender bodies and usually elongated central tail-feathers. There are about twenty-six species worldwide, two in Britain.\nOrder: CoraciiformesFamily: Coraciidae\n\nA small family of colourful, medium-sized birds with a crow-like shape that feed mainly on insects. There are about twelve species worldwide with one in Britain and Wales.\nOrder: BucerotiformesFamily: Upupidae\n\nA distinctive bird in its own family with a long curved bill, a crest and black-and-white striped wings and tail.\nOrder: PiciformesFamily: Picidae\n\nWoodpeckers are small to medium-sized birds with chisel-like beaks, short legs, stiff tails and long tongues used for capturing insects. Many woodpeckers have the habit of tapping noisily on tree trunks with their beaks. There are about 219 species worldwide, five in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Tyrannidae\n\nA family from the Americas with two very rare vagrants recorded in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Vireonidae\n\nThe vireos are a group of small to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World. There are about 52 species worldwide. Three have occurred as vagrants in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Oriolidae\n\nThe orioles are medium-sized passerines, mostly with bright and showy plumage, the females often have duller plumage than the males The beak is long, slightly curved and hooked. Orioles are arboreal and tend to feed in the canopy. There are twenty-seven species worldwide, one of which has been recorded in Great Britain.\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Laniidae\n\nShrikes are passerine birds known for their habit of catching other birds and small animals and impaling the uneaten portions of their bodies on thorns. A typical shrike's beak is hooked, like a bird of prey. There are about thirty species worldwide, nine in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Corvidae\n\nThe crows and their relatives are fairly large birds with strong bills and are usually intelligent and adaptable. There are about 119 species worldwide with nine in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Regulidae\n\nA family of very small birds. There are seven species worldwide with two in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Remizidae\n\nSmall birds with finely pointed bills that build purse-like nests hanging from a branch. There are about thirteen species worldwide with one in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Paridae\n\nTits are mainly small, stocky, woodland species with short stout bills. They are adaptable birds, with a mixed diet including seeds and insects. There are about 59 species worldwide, six in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Panuridae\n\nA single species formerly placed in the Old World babbler family.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Alaudidae\n\nLarks are small terrestrial birds with often extravagant songs and display flights. Most larks are fairly dull in appearance. Their food is insects and seeds. There are about 96 species worldwide, 10 in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Hirundinidae\n\nThe family Hirundinidae is adapted to aerial feeding. They have a slender streamlined body, long pointed wings and a short bill with a wide gape. There are about 83 species worldwide, eight in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cettiidae\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Aegithalidae\n\nSmall, long-tailed birds that typically live in flocks for much of the year. There are eight species worldwide with one in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Phylloscopidae\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sylviidae\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Locustellidae\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Acrocephalidae\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cisticolidae\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Bombycillidae\n\nThe waxwings are a group of passerine birds characterised by soft, silky plumage and unique red tips to some of the wing feathers. There are three species worldwide, two in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Tichodromadidae\n\nOne species, in its own family, a visitor to Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sittidae\n\nNuthatches are small woodland birds with the unusual ability to climb down trees head-first, unlike other birds which can only go upwards. There are about twenty-four species worldwide, two in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Certhiidae\n\nTreecreepers are small woodland birds, brown above and white below. They have thin, pointed, down-curved bills, which they use to extricate insects from bark. There are seven species worldwide, two in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Troglodytidae\n\nWrens are small and inconspicuous birds, except for their loud songs. They have short wings and thin down-turned bills. There are about 80 species worldwide with one in Britain.\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Mimidae\n\nMedium-sized passerine birds with long tails. Some are notable for their ability to mimic sounds such as other birds' songs. There are about 35 species worldwide. Three have occurred as vagrants in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Sturnidae\n\nStarlings are small to medium-sized passerine birds with strong feet. Their flight is strong and direct and most are very gregarious. There are about 114 species worldwide with two in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Cinclidae\n\nDark, dumpy, aquatic birds which are able to forage for food on the beds of rivers. There are five species worldwide with one in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Muscicapidae. Subfamily: Turdinae\n\nThe thrushes are plump, soft-plumaged, small to medium-sized insectivores or sometimes omnivores, often feeding on the ground. Many have attractive songs. There are about 183 species worldwide, 20 in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Muscicapidae. Subfamily: Muscicapinae\n\nThe flycatchers and chats are small, mainly insectivorous birds. The flycatchers fly out from a perch to catch insects in the air. There are about 297 species worldwide, 30 in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Prunellidae\n\nA small family of drab, unobtrusive, insectivorous birds with thin, pointed bills. There are thirteen species worldwide with two recorded in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Passeridae\n\nSparrows tend to be small, plump, brownish or greyish birds with short tails and short, powerful beaks. They are seed-eaters and they also consume small insects. There are about thirty-eight species worldwide, four in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Motacillidae\n\nMotacillidae is a family of small passerine birds with medium to long tails. They are slender, ground-feeding insectivores of open country. There are about 66 species worldwide, 15 in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Fringillidae\n\nSeed-eating passerine birds that are small to moderately large and have a strong beak, usually conical and in some species very large. There are about 176 species worldwide, 22 in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Emberizidae. Tribe: Calcariini\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Emberizidae. Tribe: Cardinalini\n\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Emberizidae. Tribe: Emberizini\n\nA large group of seed-eating passerine birds with a distinctively shaped bill. There are about 179 species worldwide, 23 in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Emberizidae. Tribe: Icterini\n\nThere are three rare vagrants in Britain.\nOrder: PasseriformesFamily: Emberizidae. Tribe: Parulini\n\nA group of small, often colourful passerine birds restricted to the New World. Most are arboreal and insectivorous. There are about 118 species worldwide. Eighteen have occurred as vagrants in Britain.\nThe links above lead to family accounts and individual species. Taxonomy is very fluid in the age of DNA analysis, so other arrangements may be found, as in Sibley-Ahlquist taxonomy.\n\nThe following species have been recorded recently and the British Ornithologists' Union Records Committee has not yet made a decision on whether to accept them onto the British List.\n\n"}
{"id": "33531162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33531162", "title": "List of flag bearers for the Virgin Islands at the Olympics", "text": "List of flag bearers for the Virgin Islands at the Olympics\n\nThis is a list of flag bearers who have represented Virgin Islands at the Olympics.\n\nFlag bearers carry the national flag of their country at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "40271061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40271061", "title": "List of historic places in Kings County, Prince Edward Island", "text": "List of historic places in Kings County, Prince Edward Island\n\nThis article is a list of historic places in Kings County, Prince Edward Island entered on the Canadian Register of Historic Places, whether they are federal, provincial, or municipal.\n\n"}
{"id": "36577800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36577800", "title": "List of rocket experiments on Zingst", "text": "List of rocket experiments on Zingst\n\nDuring the Cold War, when the area was part of East Germany, the eastern part of the Zingst peninsula on the German Baltic Sea coast in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania was a restricted military area, used for meteorological rocket experiments. Various experiments were conducted between 1970 and 1992 in an area known as Sundi Meadows. There were 5 launches of the Polish rocket Meteor 1E in the early 1970s. On 21 October 1988 launches of Russian of the MMR06-M type rockets began. The restricted area measured just 23.6 kilometres by 25.5 kilometres. As the rockets reached heights up to 80 kilometres, the launch angle of the unguided rockets had to be determined with an accuracy of 2 degrees in order to prevent an impact outside the restricted area.\n\nThe first launches of MMR06-M rockets were not successful due to various technical difficulties. The first successful launch with a meteorological payload occurred on 12 April 1989. Additional launches continued for a short time after the fall of the Berlin Wall and German reunification (3 October 1990). They were finally ended on 19 December 1990 for safety and technological reasons.\n\nNevertheless, between 14 February and 10 April 1992 a total of 19 Russian rockets of the MMR06-M type were launched at Zingst, of which 6 were successful. Although further rockets were still available for testing, the launches of MMR06-M rockets in Zingst were stopped in April 1992 because of the removal of German Federal Armed Forces from the place.\n\n\"Remarks:\" S = Success; PS = Partial Success; F = Failure; EF = Experiment Failure\n\n"}
{"id": "2721921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2721921", "title": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories by mortality rate", "text": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories by mortality rate\n\nThis article includes two versions of the list of countries by crude mortality rate.\n\nCrude mortality rate refers to the number of deaths over a given period divided by the person-years lived by the population over that period. It is usually expressed in units of deaths per 1,000 individuals per year(‰).\n\nThe first list is based on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) \"2011 annual statistics\". It contains the crude death rate of 236 countries and territories in 2011.\n\nThe second list is based on CIA World Factbook 2014 estimates. Dependent territories and not fully recognized states are not ranked.\n\n"}
{"id": "4337171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4337171", "title": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in North America", "text": "List of sovereign states and dependent territories in North America\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of sovereign states and dependent territories in North America. This list uses the most inclusive definition of North America, which covers the landmass north of the Panama-Colombia border, and the islands of the Caribbean. North America is the northern continent of the Americas, situated in Earth's Northern Hemisphere and almost totally in the Western Hemisphere. It is bordered on the north by the Arctic Ocean, on the east by the North Atlantic Ocean, on the southeast by the Caribbean Sea, and on the west by the North Pacific Ocean; South America lies to the southeast.\n\nThis section contains areas that are not sovereign states, but are not part of the sovereign states listed above. This includes dependent territories and integral areas of a primarily non-North American state.\n\nDependencies that are not internationally recognized, or not in effect, are listed in \"italics\".\n"}
{"id": "21577091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21577091", "title": "Maramureș", "text": "Maramureș\n\nMaramureș ( ; , \"Marmaroshchyna\") is a geographical, historical and cultural region in northern Romania and western Ukraine. It is situated on the northeastern Carpathians, along the upper Tisa River; it covers the Maramureș Depression and the surrounding Carpathian mountains.\n\nAlternatively, the name Maramureș is used for the Maramureș County of Romania, which contains the southern section of the historical region.\n\nAlternative names for Maramureș include (Marmaroshchyna), (\"Maramoroš\"), , , , and .\n\nMaramureș is a valley enclosed by mountains Oaș, Gutâi, Țibleș and Rodnei to the west and south, Maramureș Mountains and Ukrainian Carpathians (\"Wooded Carpathians\") to the east and north, with a thin opening at Khust. Several dozen small mountain rivers and creeks flow into the river Tisa. It is forested and not easily accessible.\n\nThe limits of the region are between the parallels of 47°33' N and 40°02' N and the meridians of 23°15' E and 25°03' E. Maramureș represents one of the largest depressions in the Carpathians, covering an area of about 10,000 km².\n\nIts length from Khust to Prislop Pass is about 150 km and width from North to South is up to 80 km.\n\nThe main mountain passes linking Maramureș with the neighboring regions are high and in the past were hardly accessible in the winter. Prislop Pass (1,414 m high) links the region in the east towards Moldavia, Dealul Ștefăniței (1,254 m) in the south towards Transylvania, Pintea Pass (987 m) towards Baia Mare, and Fărgău (587 m) in the west towards Oaș Country, while Frasini Pass (Yasinia; 931 m) links the region in the north to Galicia.\n\nThe mountains surrounding this region occupy more than half of the area. A few peaks reach above 2,000 m, such as Pietrosul (2,303 m) in the Rodnei Mountains to the south and Hovârla (2,061 m) in Muntele Negru (Cernahora) to the north.\n\nThe heavy forested mountains sustain many protected species of plants, such as yew (\"Taxus baccata\"), larch (\"Larix decidua\"), Swiss pine (\"Pinus cembra\"), edelweiss (\"Leontopodium alpinum\"); and animals, such as lynx (\"Lynx lynx\"), chamois (\"Rupicapra rupicapra\"), alpine marmot (\"Marmota marmota\"), golden eagle (\"Aquila chrysaetos\"), and capercaillie (\"Tetrao urogallus\").\n\nThe last wisent from present-day Romania territory, a symbol of Maramureş, was hunted to extinction in 1852. Lostriţa, a local variety of salmon, still live in the mountain rivers.\n\nSeveral protected areas have been created in Maramureș. Rodnei Mountains National Park was designated in 1930, Maramureș Mountains Natural Park in 2004, and there are many other caves, gorges, cliff formations, and lakes which are officially-protected areas.\n\nIn ancient times, this area was settled by Celts, Dacians, Sarmatians and Germanic peoples. In the first century BC, it was part of the Dacian Kingdom under Burebista, while in the early Middle Ages, it was ruled by the Hunnic Empire, the Kingdom of the Gepids, the Kingdom of the Avars, the White Croatia and the Kievan Rus'.\n\nThe territory was part of the Kingdom of Hungary from the 11th century and was nominally divided between the Gyepű border region, comitatus of Szatmár and comitatus of Borsova. Later, the whole region was included into the comitatus of Máramaros. Initially, the inhabitants of the region were allowed to preserve their native political organization, the \"Voevodates\", which formed many small autonomous areas. The King long struggled to convince the Voivodes to accept the title of Count, with the implied losing independence in political and financial matters. During the Middle Ages, the people in many mountain villages, where each family by definition had a considerable domain, were called \"nameşi\", meaning free peasants taking pride in their family (the origin of the word is disputed, in the Kingdom of Hungary, free people possessing land were called \"nemes\" in Hungarian, in Romanian \"neam\" means extended family).\n\nIn the 16th century, medieval Kingdom of Hungary was invaded and destroyed by the Ottoman Empire, and area came under administration of the semi-independent Ottoman Principality of Transylvania and later (in the end of the 17th century) under administration of the Habsburg Monarchy (later known as the Austrian Empire). During Habsburg administration, region was firstly part of the Habsburg Principality of Transylvania, but was later (in 1732) included into the Habsburg Kingdom of Hungary. In 1867, the Austrian Empire was transformed into the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary and the region was included into the Transleithania or Hungarian part of the Monarchy.\n\nAfter the First World War, the region was divided between Romania and Czechoslovakia at the territory of Hutsul Republic, while in 1940 the whole area became part of Hungary again and was controlled during World War II until 1944. After World War II, the southern section remained within the Romanian borders and is now part of Maramureș County; the northern section was incorporated into the Soviet Union and is now part of Zakarpattia Oblast of independent Ukraine.\n\nIn the southern area, the majority of the population are Romanians. There are also some Hungarians, Rusyns (Ukrainians), Zipser Germans, Jews, and Roma. In the northern area, the majority are Ruthenes, with smaller Romanian, Hungarian and German communities.\n\nIn the northern area most people speak the Ruthene language, while in the southern area most speak Romanian, which is why the region was split into two parts. Since the 1940s there have been villages cut in two by the state border. There are some villages in the north (within Ukraine) that have a sizeable Romanian population, as well as some villages in Romania that have a sizeable Ukrainian population.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1532673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1532673", "title": "Masahisa Fujita", "text": "Masahisa Fujita\n\nFujita majored in urban planning as an undergraduate at Kyoto University. He studied regional science in University of Pennsylvania under Walter Isard and obtained a Ph.D.(in Regional Science) from University of Pennsylvania in 1972. He taught at University of Pennsylvania for about 20 years, and has been the faculty of Institute of Economic Research (KIER) Kyoto University since 1995, where he served as Director in 1999. He was the President of Institute of Developing Economies during 2003 to 2007, and proposed a basic concept of Economic Research Institute for ASEAN and East Asia to JETRO and METI.In 2007, he became President and Chief Research Officer of the Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry.\n\nFujita is known as one of the pioneers of New Economic Geography, research of Spatial Economy as well as Paul Krugman. \nFujita is the recipient of the 1983 Tord Palander Prize, the 1998 Walter Isard Award in regional science, and also awarded First Alonso Prize with Paul Krugman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29548496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29548496", "title": "National Natural Parks System (Colombia)", "text": "National Natural Parks System (Colombia)\n\nThe Special Administrative Unit of the Network of National Natural Parks of Colombia (; PNN) is Colombian central agency that manages all the national parks and protected areas.\n"}
{"id": "1421461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1421461", "title": "Nicholas J. Spykman", "text": "Nicholas J. Spykman\n\nNicholas John Spykman (pronounced \"Speak-man\", 13 October 1893 – 26 June 1943) was an American political scientist who was one of the founders of the classial realist school in American foreign policy, transmitting Eastern European political thought to the United States. A Sterling Professor of International Relations, teaching as part of the Institute for International Studies at Yale University, one of his prime concerns was making his students geographically literate, as geopolitics was impossible without geographic understanding.\n\nHis work on geopolitics and geostrategy led him to be to known as the \"godfather of containment.\"\n\nSpykman was born on 13 October 1893 in Amsterdam. He attended Delft University and the University of Cairo.\n\nHe worked as a journalist in various parts of the world during much of the 1910s and also served as a diplomatic assistant for the Netherlands in Egypt and the Dutch East Indies.\n\nHe then came to the United States around 1920 to enter a doctoral program at the University of California, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1921, a master's degree in 1922, and a Ph.D. in 1923. The subject of his dissertation, which he subsequently revised for publication, was Georg Simmel. He then was an instructor in political science and sociology there from 1923 to 1925. He became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1928.\n\nIn 1925, he came to Yale University, where he was an assistant professor of international relations. He became a full professor in 1928 and the chair of the university's department of international relations in 1935. Also in 1935, he was a co-founder of the Yale Institute of International Studies and was its first director. He held that position until 1940, when he became ill and relinquished it.\n\nSpykman published two books on foreign policy. \n\n\"America's Strategy in World Politics\" was published in 1942, soon after the entry of the United States into World War II. Concerned with the balance of power, he argued that isolationism, which relied on the oceans to protect the United States (\"hemispheric\" or \"quarter defense\"), was bound to fail. His object was to prevent another US retreat, as what occurred after World War I. Isaiah Bowman commented in 1942, \"On grounds of merit and public value \"America’s Strategy in World Politics\" should be read in not less than a million American home. Every government official responsible for policy should read it once a year for the next twenty years—even if he may not agree with some of the remedies proposed.\"\n\n\"The Geography of the Peace\" was published the year after Spykman's death. He explained his geostrategy and argued that the balance of power in Eurasia directly affected US security.\n\nIn his writings on geography and foreign policy, Spykman was somewhat of a geographical determinist. Since geography was \"the most fundamentally conditioning factor because of its relative permanence,\" it is of primary relevance in analyzing a state's potential foreign policy.\n\nHe died of cancer on 26 June 1943, at the age of 49, in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nHe was married to the children's novelist E. C. Spykman.\n\nHe could be considered as a disciple and critic of both geostrategists Alfred Mahan, of the United States Navy, and Halford Mackinder, the British geographer. Spykman's work is based on assumptions similar to Mackinder, the unity of world politics and the unity of the world sea, but extends it to include the unity of the air. The exploration of the entire world means that the foreign policy of any nation will affect more than its immediate neighbors; it will affect the alignment of nations throughout the world's regions. Maritime mobility opened up the possibility of a new geopolitical structure: the overseas empire.\n\nSpykman adopts Mackinder's divisions of the world but renames some:\n\nAt the same time, even if he gives credit to the strategic importance of maritime space like Mackinder, he does not see it as a region that will be unified by powerful transportation or communication infrastructure in the near future. As such, it will not be in a position to compete with US sea power. Spykman agrees that the Heartland offers a uniquely-defensive position, but that is all Spykman grants its occupier.\n\nWhile the USSR encompassed a great expanse of land, its arable land remained in a small portion of its territory, mostly in the West. Indeed, the Soviet's raw materials were largely located to the West of the Ural Mountains as well. Since the political and material center of gravity was in the Western part of the USSR, Spykman sees little possibility of the Soviets exerting much power in Central Asia.\n\nStill, the Soviet Union was to remain the greatest land power in Asia and could be a peacekeeper or a problem.\n\nThe Rimland (Mackinder's \"Inner or Marginal Crescent\") sections:\n\nWhile Spykman accepts the first two as defined, he rejects the simple grouping the Asian countries into one \"monsoon land.\" India, the Indian Ocean littoral, and the culture of Indi had a geography and civilization separate from the Chinese lands.\n\nThe Rimland's defining characteristic is that it is an intermediate region, lying between the Heartland and the marginal sea powers. As the amphibious buffer zone between the land powers and sea powers, it must defend itself from both sides, the cause of its fundamental security problems. Spykman's conception of the Rimland bears greater resemblance to Alfred Thayer Mahan's \"debated and debatable zone\" than to Mackinder's Inner or Marginal Crescent.\n\nThe Rimland has great importance because of its demographic weight, natural resources, and industrial development. Spykman sees that its importance to be the reason that the Rimland will be crucial to containing the Heartland, but Mackinder had believed that the Outer or Insular Crescent would be the most important factor in containing the Heartland.\n\nThere are two offshore continents flanking Eurasia: Africa and Australia. Spykman sees both continents' geopolitical status as determined respectively by the state of control over the Mediterranean Sea and the \"Asiatic Mediterranean.\" Neither has ever been the seat of significant power; chaos prevents Africa from harnessing the resources of its regions, and Australia has too little arable territory.\n\nOther than the two continents, there are offshore islands of significance are Britain, Japan and the New World, buffered by the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean.\n\nAgain, Spykman differs from Mackinder, who sees Eurasian wars as historically pitting the Heartland against the sea powers for control of the rimland, establishing a land power-sea power opposition. Spykman states that historically, battles have pitted either Britain and Rimland allies against Russia and its Rimland allies or Britain and Russia together against a dominating Rimland power. In other words, the Eurasian struggle was not the sea powers containing the Heartland but the prevention of any power from ruling the Rimland.\n\nSpykman disagrees with Mackinder's famous dictum:\n\nHe refashions it thus:\n\nTherefore, British, Russian, and US power would play the key roles in controlling the European litoral and there the essential power relations of the world.\n\nSpykman thought that it was in the American interests to leave Germany strong after World War II to be able to counter Russia's power. Strategically, there was no difference between Germany dominating all the way to the Ural or Russia controlling all the way to Germany, and as both scenarios were equally threatening to the US.\n\nSpykman predicted that Japan would lose the Pacific War and that China and Russia would remain to struggle against eac other over boundaries. He also forecast the rise of China, becoming the dominant power in Asia and that the US would thus take responsibility for Japan's defense.\n\nSpykman was opposed to European integration and argued that US interests favored balanced power in Europe, rather than integrated power. The US was fighting a war against Germany to prevent Europe's conquest, and it would not make sense to federalize or to unify Europe after a war that had been fought to preserve balance.\n\nJohn Foster Dulles and the founders of the containment strategy would borrow heavily from Spykman, as well as Mackinder, when forging the American Cold War strategy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "21139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21139", "title": "North America", "text": "North America\n\nNorth America is a continent entirely within the Northern Hemisphere and almost all within the Western Hemisphere; it is also considered by some to be a northern subcontinent of the Americas. It is bordered to the north by the Arctic Ocean, to the east by the Atlantic Ocean, to the west and south by the Pacific Ocean, and to the southeast by South America and the Caribbean Sea.\n\nNorth America covers an area of about 24,709,000 square kilometers (9,540,000 square miles), about 16.5% of the earth's land area and about 4.8% of its total surface.\nNorth America is the third largest continent by area, following Asia and Africa, and the fourth by population after Asia, Africa, and Europe. In 2013, its population was estimated at nearly 579 million people in 23 independent states, or about 7.5% of the world's population, if nearby islands (most notably the Caribbean) are included.\n\nNorth America was reached by its first human populations during the last glacial period, via crossing the Bering land bridge approximately 40,000 to 17,000 years ago. The so-called Paleo-Indian period is taken to have lasted until about 10,000 years ago (the beginning of the Archaic or Meso-Indian period). The Classic stage spans roughly the 6th to 13th centuries. The Pre-Columbian era ended in 1492, and the transatlantic migrations—the arrival of European settlers during the Age of Discovery and the Early Modern period. Present-day cultural and ethnic patterns reflect different kinds of interactions between European colonists, indigenous peoples, African slaves and their descendants.\n\nEuropean influences are strongest in the northern parts of the continent while indigenous and African influences are relatively stronger in the south. Because of the history of colonialism, most North Americans speak English, Spanish or French and societies and states commonly reflect Western traditions.\n\nThe Americas are usually accepted as having been named after the Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci by the German cartographers Martin Waldseemüller and Matthias Ringmann. Vespucci, who explored South America between 1497 and 1502, was the first European to suggest that the Americas were not the East Indies, but a different landmass previously unknown by Europeans. In 1507, Waldseemüller produced a world map, in which he placed the word \"America\" on the continent of South America, in the middle of what is today Brazil. He explained the rationale for the name in the accompanying book \"Cosmographiae Introductio\":\n\nFor Waldseemüller, no one should object to the naming of the land after its discoverer. He used the Latinized version of Vespucci's name (Americus Vespucius), but in its feminine form \"America\", following the examples of \"Europa\", \"Asia\" and \"Africa\".\n\nLater, other mapmakers extended the name \"America\" to the northern continent, In 1538, Gerard Mercator used \"America\" on his map of the world for all the Western Hemisphere.\n\nSome argue that the convention is to use the surname for naming discoveries except in the case of royalty and so a derivation from \"Amerigo Vespucci\" could be problematic. Ricardo Palma (1949) proposed a derivation from the \"Amerrique\" mountains of Central America—Vespucci was the first to discover South America and the \"Amerrique\" mountains of Central America, which connected his discoveries to those of Christopher Columbus.\n\nAlfred E. Hudd proposed a theory in 1908 that the continents are named after a Welsh merchant named Richard Amerike from Bristol, who is believed to have financed John Cabot's voyage of discovery from England to Newfoundland in 1497. A minutely explored belief that has been advanced is that America was named for a Spanish sailor bearing the ancient Visigothic name of 'Amairick'. Another is that the name is rooted in a Native American language.\n\nThe United Nations formally recognizes \"North America\" as comprising three areas: Northern America, Central America, and The Caribbean. This has been formally defined by the UN Statistics Division.\n\nThe term \"North America\" maintains various definitions in accordance with location and context. In Canadian English, \"North America\" generally refers to the land mass as a whole consisting of Mexico, the United States, and Canada, although it is generally ambiguous which other countries are included, and is mostly defined by context. In the United States of America, usage of the term may refer only to Canada and the USA, and sometimes includes Greenland and Mexico (as in the North American Free Trade Agreement), as well as offshore islands.\n\nIn France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Romania, Greece, and the countries of Latin America, the cognates of \"North America\" usually designate a subcontinent of the Americas comprising Canada, the United States, and Mexico, and often Greenland, Saint Pierre et Miquelon, and Bermuda.\n\nNorth America has been historically referred to by other names. Spanish North America (New Spain) was often referred to as \"Northern America\", and this was the first official name given to Mexico.\n\nGeographically the North American continent has many regions and subregions. These include cultural, economic, and geographic regions. Economic regions included those formed by trade blocs, such as the North American Trade Agreement bloc and Central American Trade Agreement. Linguistically and culturally, the continent could be divided into Anglo-America and Latin America. Anglo-America includes most of Northern America, Belize, and Caribbean islands with English-speaking populations (though sub-national entities, such as Louisiana and Quebec, have large Francophone populations; in Quebec, French is the sole official language).\n\nThe southern North American continent is composed of two regions. These are Central America and the Caribbean. The north of the continent maintains recognized regions as well. In contrast to the common definition of \"North America\", which encompasses the whole continent, the term \"North America\" is sometimes used to refer only to Mexico, Canada, the United States, and Greenland.\n\nThe term Northern America refers to the northern-most countries and territories of North America: the United States, Bermuda, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Canada and Greenland. Although the term does not refer to a unified region, Middle America—not to be confused with the Midwestern United States—groups the regions of Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean.\n\nThe largest countries of the continent, Canada and the United States, also contain well-defined and recognized regions. In the case of Canada these are (from east to west) Atlantic Canada, Central Canada, Canadian Prairies, the British Columbia Coast, and Northern Canada. These regions also contain many subregions. In the case of the United States – and in accordance with the US Census Bureau definitions – these regions are: New England, Mid-Atlantic, South Atlantic States, East North Central States, West North Central States, East South Central States, West South Central States, Mountain States, and Pacific States. Regions shared between both nations included the Great Lakes Region. Megalopolises have formed between both nations in the case of the Pacific Northwest and the Great Lakes Megaregion.\n\nLaurentia is an ancient craton which forms the geologic core of North America; it formed between 1.5 and 1.0 billion years ago during the Proterozoic eon. The Canadian Shield is the largest exposure of this craton. From the Late Paleozoic to Early Mesozoic eras, North America was joined with the other modern-day continents as part of the supercontinent Pangaea, with Eurasia to its east. One of the results of the formation of Pangaea was the Appalachian Mountains, which formed some 480 million years ago, making it among the oldest mountain ranges in the world. When Pangaea began to rift around 200 million years ago, North America became part of Laurasia, before it separated from Eurasia as its own continent during the mid-Cretaceous period. The Rockies and other western mountain ranges began forming around this time from a period of mountain building called the Laramide orogeny, between 80 and 55 million years ago. The formation of the Isthmus of Panama that connected the continent to South America arguably occurred approximately 12 to 15 million years ago, and the Great Lakes (as well as many other northern freshwater lakes and rivers) were carved by receding glaciers about 10,000 years ago.\n\nNorth America is the source of much of what humanity knows about geologic time periods. The geographic area that would later become the United States has been the source of more varieties of dinosaurs than any other modern country. According to paleontologist Peter Dodson, this is primarily due to stratigraphy, climate and geography, human resources, and history. Much of the Mesozoic Era is represented by exposed outcrops in the many arid regions of the continent. The most significant Late Jurassic dinosaur-bearing fossil deposit in North America is the Morrison Formation of the western United States.\n\nThe indigenous peoples of North America have many creation myths by which they assert that they have been present on the land since its creation. The specifics of Paleo-Indian migration to and throughout the Americas, including the exact dates and routes traveled, are subject to ongoing research and discussion. The traditional theory has been that these early migrants moved into the Beringia land bridge between eastern Siberia and present-day Alaska around 25,000 to 11,000 years ago. The few agreements achieved to date are the origin from Central Asia, with widespread habitation of the Americas during the end of the last glacial period, or more specifically what is known as the late glacial maximum, around 13,000 years before present. Some genetic research indicated secondary waves of migration occurred after the initial Paleo-Indian colonization, but prior to modern Inuit, Inupiat and Yupik expansions.\n\nBefore contact with Europeans, the natives of North America were divided into many different polities, from small bands of a few families to large empires. They lived in several \"culture areas\", which roughly correspond to geographic and biological zones and give a good indication of the main lifeway or occupation of the people who lived there (e.g., the bison hunters of the Great Plains, or the farmers of Mesoamerica). Native groups can also be classified by their language family (e.g., Athapascan or Uto-Aztecan). Peoples with similar languages did not always share the same material culture, nor were they always allies. Anthropologists think that the Inuit people of the high Arctic came to North America much later than other native groups, as evidenced by the disappearance of Dorset culture artifacts from the archaeological record, and their replacement by the Thule people.\n\nDuring the thousands of years of native habitation on the continent, cultures changed and shifted. One of the oldest cultures yet found is the Clovis culture of modern New Mexico. Later cultures include the Mississippian culture and related Mound building cultures, found in the Mississippi river valley and the Pueblo culture of what is now the Four Corners. The more southern cultural groups of North America were responsible for the domestication of many common crops now used around the world, such as tomatoes and squash. Perhaps most importantly they domesticated one of the world's major staples, maize (corn).\n\nThe earliest verifiable instance of pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact by any European culture with the landmasses that geologically constitute the \"mainland\" of modern North America has been dated to the end of the 10th century CE – this site, situated at the northernmost extent of the island named Newfoundland, is known as L'Anse aux Meadows, where unmistakable evidence of Norse settlement was uncovered in the early 1960s.\n\nAs a result of the development of agriculture in the south, many important cultural advances were made there. For example, the Maya civilization developed a writing system, built huge pyramids and temples, had a complex calendar, and developed the concept of zero around 400 CE, a few hundred years after the Mesopotamians. The Mayan culture was still present in southern Mexico and Guatemala when the Spanish explorers arrived, but political dominance in the area had shifted to the Aztec Empire whose capital city Tenochtitlan was located further north in the Valley of Mexico. The Aztecs were conquered in 1521 by Hernán Cortés.\n\nDuring the Age of Discovery, Europeans explored and staked claims to various parts of North America. Upon their arrival in the \"New World\", the Native American population declined substantially, because of violent conflicts with the invaders and the introduction of European diseases to which the Native Americans lacked immunity. Native culture changed drastically and their affiliation with political and cultural groups also changed. Several linguistic groups died out, and others changed quite quickly. The names and cultures that Europeans recorded were not necessarily the same as the names they had used a few generations before, or the ones in use today.\n\nBritain, Spain, and France took over extensive territories in North America – and fought over them. In the late 18th century and beginning of the 19th, independence movements that sprung up across the continent, led to the creation of the modern countries in the area. The 13 British colonies on the North Atlantic coast declared independence in 1776, becoming the United States of America. Canada was formed from the unification of northern territories controlled by Britain and France. New Spain, a territory that stretched from modern-day southern US to Central America, declared independence in 1810, becoming the First Mexican Empire. In 1823 the former Captaincy General of Guatemala, then part of the Mexican Empire, became the first independent state in Central America, officially changing its name to the United Provinces of Central America.\n\nNorth America occupies the northern portion of the landmass generally referred to as the New World, the Western Hemisphere, the Americas, or simply America (which, less commonly, is considered by some as a single continent with North America a subcontinent). North America's only land connection to South America is at the Isthmus of Panama. The continent is delimited on the southeast by most geographers at the Darién watershed along the Colombia-Panama border, placing all of Panama within North America. Alternatively, some geologists physiographically locate its southern limit at the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Mexico, with Central America extending southeastward to South America from this point. The Caribbean islands, or West Indies, are considered part of North America. The continental coastline is long and irregular. The Gulf of Mexico is the largest body of water indenting the continent, followed by Hudson Bay. Others include the Gulf of Saint Lawrence and the Gulf of California.\n\nBefore the Central American isthmus formed, the region had been underwater. The islands of the West Indies delineate a submerged former land bridge, which had connected North and South America via what are now Florida and Venezuela.\n\nThere are numerous islands off the continent's coasts; principally, the Arctic Archipelago, the Bahamas, Turks & Caicos, the Greater and Lesser Antilles, the Aleutian Islands (some of which are in the Eastern Hemisphere proper), the Alexander Archipelago, the many thousand islands of the British Columbia Coast, and Newfoundland. Greenland, a self-governing Danish island, and the world's largest, is on the same tectonic plate (the North American Plate) and is part of North America geographically. In a geologic sense, Bermuda is not part of the Americas, but an oceanic island which was formed on the fissure of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge over 100 million years ago. The nearest landmass to it is Cape Hatteras, North Carolina. However, Bermuda is often thought of as part of North America, especially given its historical, political and cultural ties to Virginia and other parts of the continent.\n\nThe vast majority of North America is on the North American Plate. Parts of western Mexico, including Baja California, and of California, including the cities of San Diego, Los Angeles, and Santa Cruz, lie on the eastern edge of the Pacific Plate, with the two plates meeting along the San Andreas fault. The southernmost portion of the continent and much of the West Indies lie on the Caribbean Plate, whereas the Juan de Fuca and Cocos plates border the North American Plate on its western frontier.\n\nThe continent can be divided into four great regions (each of which contains many subregions): the Great Plains stretching from the Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian Arctic; the geologically young, mountainous west, including the Rocky Mountains, the Great Basin, California and Alaska; the raised but relatively flat plateau of the Canadian Shield in the northeast; and the varied eastern region, which includes the Appalachian Mountains, the coastal plain along the Atlantic seaboard, and the Florida peninsula. Mexico, with its long plateaus and cordilleras, falls largely in the western region, although the eastern coastal plain does extend south along the Gulf.\n\nThe western mountains are split in the middle into the main range of the Rockies and the coast ranges in California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia, with the Great Basin—a lower area containing smaller ranges and low-lying deserts—in between. The highest peak is Denali in Alaska.\n\nThe United States Geographical Survey (USGS) states that the geographic center of North America is \"6 miles [10 km] west of Balta, Pierce County, North Dakota\" at about , about from Rugby, North Dakota. The USGS further states that \"No marked or monumented point has been established by any government agency as the geographic center of either the 50 States, the conterminous United States, or the North American continent.\" Nonetheless, there is a field stone obelisk in Rugby claiming to mark the center. The North American continental pole of inaccessibility is located from the nearest coastline, between Allen and Kyle, South Dakota at .\n\nGeologically, Canada is one of the oldest regions in the world, with more than half of the region consisting of precambrian rocks that have been above sea level since the beginning of the Palaeozoic era. Canada's mineral resources are diverse and extensive. Across the Canadian Shield and in the north there are large iron, nickel, zinc, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum, and uranium reserves. Large diamond concentrations have been recently developed in the Arctic, making Canada one of the world's largest producers. Throughout the Shield there are many mining towns extracting these minerals. The largest, and best known, is Sudbury, Ontario. Sudbury is an exception to the normal process of forming minerals in the Shield since there is significant evidence that the Sudbury Basin is an ancient meteorite impact crater. The nearby, but less known Temagami Magnetic Anomaly has striking similarities to the Sudbury Basin. Its magnetic anomalies are very similar to the Sudbury Basin, and so it could be a second metal-rich impact crater. The Shield is also covered by vast boreal forests that support an important logging industry.\n\nThe lower 48 US states can be divided into roughly five physiographic provinces:\n\nThe geology of Alaska is typical of that of the cordillera, while the major islands of Hawaii consist of Neogene volcanics erupted over a hot spot.\n\nCentral America is geologically active with volcanic eruptions and earthquakes occurring from time to time. In 1976 Guatemala was hit by a major earthquake, killing 23,000 people; Managua, the capital of Nicaragua, was devastated by earthquakes in 1931 and 1972, the last one killing about 5,000 people; three earthquakes devastated El Salvador, one in 1986 and two in 2001; one earthquake devastated northern and central Costa Rica in 2009, killing at least 34 people; in Honduras a powerful earthquake killed seven people in 2009.\n\nVolcanic eruptions are common in the region. In 1968 the Arenal Volcano, in Costa Rica, erupted and killed 87 people. Fertile soils from weathered volcanic lavas have made it possible to sustain dense populations in the agriculturally productive highland areas.\n\nCentral America has many mountain ranges; the longest are the Sierra Madre de Chiapas, the Cordillera Isabelia, and the Cordillera de Talamanca. Between the mountain ranges lie fertile valleys that are suitable for the people; in fact, most of the population of Honduras, Costa Rica, and Guatemala live in valleys. Valleys are also suitable for the production of coffee, beans, and other crops.\n\nNorth America is a very large continent which surpasses the Arctic Circle, and the Tropic of Cancer. Greenland, along with the Canadian Shield, is tundra with average temperatures ranging from , but central Greenland is composed of a very large ice sheet. This tundra radiates throughout Canada, but its border ends near the Rocky Mountains (but still contains Alaska) and at the end of the Canadian Shield, near the Great Lakes.\nClimate west of the Cascades is described as being a temperate weather with average precipitation .\nClimate in coastal California is described to be Mediterranean, with average temperatures in cities like San Francisco ranging from over the course of the year.\n\nStretching from the East Coast to eastern North Dakota, and stretching down to Kansas, is the continental-humid climate featuring intense seasons, with a large amount of annual precipitation, with places like New York City averaging .\nStarting at the southern border of the continental-humid climate and stretching to the Gulf of Mexico (whilst encompassing the eastern half of Texas) is the subtropical climate. This area has the wettest cities in the contiguous U.S. with annual precipitation reaching in Mobile, Alabama.\nStretching from the borders of the continental humid and subtropical climates, and going west to the Cascades Sierra Nevada, south to the southern tip of durango, north to the border with tundra climate, the steppe/desert climate is the driest climate in the U.S. Highland climates cut from north to south of the continent, where subtropical or temperate climates occur just below the tropics, as in central Mexico and Guatemala. Tropical climates appear in the island regions and in the subcontinent's bottleneck. Usually of the savannah type, with rains and high temperatures constants the whole year. Found in countries and states bathed by the Caribbean Sea or to south of the Gulf of Mexico and Pacific Ocean.\n\nNotable North American fauna include the bison, black bear, prairie dog, turkey, pronghorn, raccoon, coyote and monarch butterfly.\n\nNotable plants that were domesticated in North America include tobacco, maize, squash, tomato, sunflower, blueberry, avocado, cotton, chile pepper\nand vanilla.\n\nEconomically, Canada and the United States are the wealthiest and most developed nations in the continent, followed by Mexico, a newly industrialized country. The countries of Central America and the Caribbean are at various levels of economic and human development. For example, small Caribbean island-nations, such as Barbados, Trinidad and Tobago, and Antigua and Barbuda, have a higher GDP (PPP) per capita than Mexico due to their smaller populations. Panama and Costa Rica have a significantly higher Human Development Index and GDP than the rest of the Central American nations. Additionally, despite Greenland's vast resources in oil and minerals, much of them remain untapped, and the island is economically dependent on fishing, tourism, and subsidies from Denmark. Nevertheless, the island is highly developed.\n\nDemographically, North America is ethnically diverse. Its three main groups are Caucasians, Mestizos and Blacks. There is a significant minority of Indigenous Americans and Asians among other less numerous groups.\n\nThe dominant languages in North America are English, Spanish, and French. Danish is prevalent in Greenland alongside Greenlandic, and Dutch is spoken side by side local languages in the Dutch Caribbean. The term Anglo-America is used to refer to the anglophone countries of the Americas: namely Canada (where English and French are co-official) and the United States, but also sometimes Belize and parts of the tropics, especially the Commonwealth Caribbean. Latin America refers to the other areas of the Americas (generally south of the United States) where the Romance languages, derived from Latin, of Spanish and Portuguese (but French speaking countries are not usually included) predominate: the other republics of Central America (but not always Belize), part of the Caribbean (not the Dutch-, English-, or French-speaking areas), Mexico, and most of South America (except Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana (France), and the Falkland Islands (UK)).\n\nThe French language has historically played a significant role in North America and now retains a distinctive presence in some regions. Canada is officially bilingual. French is the official language of the Province of Quebec, where 95% of the people speak it as either their first or second language, and it is co-official with English in the Province of New Brunswick. Other French-speaking locales include the Province of Ontario (the official language is English, but there are an estimated 600,000 Franco-Ontarians), the Province of Manitoba (co-official as \"de jure\" with English), the French West Indies and Saint-Pierre et Miquelon, as well as the US state of Louisiana, where French is also an official language. Haiti is included with this group based on historical association but Haitians speak both Creole and French. Similarly, French and French Antillean Creole is spoken in Saint Lucia and the Commonwealth of Dominica alongside English.\n\nChristianity is the largest religion in the United States, Canada and Mexico. According to a 2012 Pew Research Center survey, 77% of the population considered themselves Christians. Christianity also is the predominant religion in the 23 dependent territories in North America. The United States has the largest Christian population in the world, with nearly 247 million Christians (70%), although other countries have higher percentages of Christians among their populations. Mexico has the world's second largest number of Catholics, surpassed only by Brazil. A 2015 study estimates about 493,000 Christian believers from a Muslim background in North America, most of them belonging to some form of Protestantism.\n\nAccording to the same study religiously unaffiliated (include agnostic and atheist) make up about 17% of the population of Canada and the United States. No religion make up about 24% of the United States population, and 24% of Canada total population.\n\nCanada, the United States and Mexico host communities of both Jews (6 million or about 1.8%), Buddhists (3.8 million or 1.1%) and Muslims (3.4 million or 1.0%). The biggest number of Jewish individuals can be found in the United States (5.4 million), Canada (375,000) and Mexico (67,476). The United States host the largest Muslim population in North America with 2.7 million or 0.9%, While Canada host about one million Muslim or 3.2% of the population. While in Mexico there were 3,700 Muslims in the country. In 2012, \"U-T San Diego\" estimated U.S. practitioners of Buddhism at 1.2 million people, of whom 40% are living in Southern California.\n\nThe predominant religion in Central America is Christianity (96%). Beginning with the Spanish colonization of Central America in the 16th century, Roman Catholicism became the most popular religion in the region until the first half of the 20th century. Since the 1960s, there has been an increase in other Christian groups, particularly Protestantism, as well as other religious organizations, and individuals identifying themselves as having no religion. Also Christianity is the predominant religion in the Caribbean (85%). Other religious groups in the region are Hinduism, Islam, Rastafari (in Jamaica), and Afro-American religions such as Santería and Vodou.\n\nThe most populous country in North America is the United States with 318.4 million persons. The second largest country is Mexico with a population of 112,322,757. Canada is the third most populous country with 32,623,490. The majority of Caribbean island-nations have national populations under a million, though Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Puerto Rico (a territory of the United States), Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago each have populations higher than a million. Greenland has a small population of 55,984 for its massive size (2,166,000 km² or 836,300 mi²), and therefore, it has the world's lowest population density at 0.026 pop./km² (0.067 pop./mi²).\n\nWhile the United States, Canada, and Mexico maintain the largest populations, large city populations are not restricted to those nations. There are also large cities in the Caribbean. The largest cities in North America, by far, are Mexico City and New York. These cities are the only cities on the continent to exceed eight million, and two of three in the Americas. Next in size are Los Angeles, Toronto, Chicago, Havana, Santo Domingo, and Montreal. Cities in the sunbelt regions of the United States, such as those in Southern California and Houston, Phoenix, Miami, Atlanta, and Las Vegas, are experiencing rapid growth. These causes included warm temperatures, retirement of Baby Boomers, large industry, and the influx of immigrants. Cities near the United States border, particularly in Mexico, are also experiencing large amounts of growth. Most notable is Tijuana, a city bordering San Diego that receives immigrants from all over Latin America and parts of Europe and Asia. Yet as cities grow in these warmer regions of North America, they are increasingly forced to deal with the major issue of water shortages.\n\nEight of the top ten metropolitan areas are located in the United States. These metropolitan areas all have a population of above 5.5 million and include the New York City metropolitan area, Los Angeles metropolitan area, Chicago metropolitan area, and the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex. Whilst the majority of the largest metropolitan areas are within the United States, Mexico is host to the largest metropolitan area by population in North America: Greater Mexico City. Canada also breaks into the top ten largest metropolitan areas with the Toronto metropolitan area having six million people. The proximity of cities to each other on the Canada–United States border and Mexico–United States border has led to the rise of international metropolitan areas. These urban agglomerations are observed at their largest and most productive in Detroit–Windsor and San Diego–Tijuana and experience large commercial, economic, and cultural activity. The metropolitan areas are responsible for millions of dollars of trade dependent on international freight. In Detroit-Windsor the Border Transportation Partnership study in 2004 concluded US$13 billion was dependent on the Detroit–Windsor international border crossing while in San Diego-Tijuana freight at the Otay Mesa Port of Entry was valued at US$20 billion.\n\nNorth America has also been witness to the growth of megapolitan areas. In the United States exists eleven megaregions that transcend international borders and comprise Canadian and Mexican metropolitan regions. These are the Arizona Sun Corridor, Cascadia, Florida, Front Range, Great Lakes Megaregion, Gulf Coast Megaregion, Northeast, Northern California, Piedmont Atlantic, Southern California, and the Texas Triangle. Canada and Mexico are also the home of megaregions. These include the Quebec City – Windsor Corridor, Golden Horseshoe – both of which are considered part of the Great Lakes Megaregion – and megalopolis of Central Mexico. Traditionally the largest megaregion has been considered the Boston-Washington, DC Corridor, or the Northeast, as the region is one massive contiguous area. Yet have allowed the Great Lakes Megalopolis to maintain status as the most populated region, being home to 53,768,125 people in 2000.\n\nThe top ten largest North American metropolitan areas by population as of 2013, based on national census numbers from the United States and census estimates from Canada and Mexico.\n\nNorth America's GDP per capita was evaluated in October 2016 by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to be $41,830, making it the richest continent in the world, followed by Oceania.\n\nCanada, Mexico, and the United States have significant and multifaceted economic systems. The United States has the largest economy of all three countries and in the world. In 2016, the U.S. had an estimated per capita gross domestic product (PPP) of $57,466 according to the World Bank, and is the most technologically developed economy of the three. The United States' services sector comprises 77% of the country's GDP (estimated in 2010), industry comprises 22% and agriculture comprises 1.2%. The U.S. economy is also the fastest growing economy in North America and the Americas as a whole, with the highest GDP per capita in the Americas as well.\n\nCanada shows significant growth in the sectors of services, mining and manufacturing. Canada's per capita GDP (PPP) was estimated at $44,656 and it had the 11th largest GDP (nominal) in 2014. Canada's services sector comprises 78% of the country's GDP (estimated in 2010), industry comprises 20% and agriculture comprises 2%. Mexico has a per capita GDP (PPP) of $16,111 and as of 2014 is the 15th largest GDP (nominal) in the world. Being a newly industrialized country, Mexico maintains both modern and outdated industrial and agricultural facilities and operations. Its main sources of income are oil, industrial exports, manufactured goods, electronics, heavy industry, automobiles, construction, food, banking and financial services.\n\nThe North American economy is well defined and structured in three main economic areas. These areas are the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), and the Central American Common Market (CACM). Of these trade blocs, the United States takes part in two. In addition to the larger trade blocs there is the Canada-Costa Rica Free Trade Agreement among numerous other free trade relations, often between the larger, more developed countries and Central American and Caribbean countries.\n\nThe North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) forms one of the four largest trade blocs in the world. Its implementation in 1994 was designed for economic homogenization with hopes of eliminating barriers of trade and foreign investment between Canada, the United States and Mexico. While Canada and the United States already conducted the largest bilateral trade relationship – and to present day still do – in the world and Canada–United States trade relations already allowed trade without national taxes and tariffs, NAFTA allowed Mexico to experience a similar duty-free trade. The free trade agreement allowed for the elimination of tariffs that had previously been in place on United States-Mexico trade. Trade volume has steadily increased annually and in 2010, surface trade between the three NAFTA nations reached an all-time historical increase of 24.3% or US$791 billion. The NAFTA trade bloc GDP (PPP) is the world's largest with US$17.617 trillion. This is in part attributed to the fact that the economy of the United States is the world's largest national economy; the country had a nominal GDP of approximately $14.7 trillion in 2010. The countries of NAFTA are also some of each other's largest trade partners. The United States is the largest trade partner of Canada and Mexico; while Canada and Mexico are each other's third largest trade partners.\n\nThe Caribbean trade bloc – CARICOM – came into agreement in 1973 when it was signed by 15 Caribbean nations. As of 2000, CARICOM trade volume was US$96 billion. CARICOM also allowed for the creation of a common passport for associated nations. In the past decade the trade bloc focused largely on Free Trade Agreements and under the CARICOM Office of Trade Negotiations (OTN) free trade agreements have been signed into effect.\n\nIntegration of Central American economies occurred under the signing of the Central American Common Market agreement in 1961; this was the first attempt to engage the nations of this area into stronger financial cooperation. Recent implementation of the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) has left the future of the CACM unclear. The Central American Free Trade Agreement was signed by five Central American countries, the Dominican Republic, and the United States. The focal point of CAFTA is to create a free trade area similar to that of NAFTA. In addition to the United States, Canada also has relations in Central American trade blocs. Currently under proposal, the Canada – Central American Free Trade Agreement (CA4) would operate much the same as CAFTA with the United States does.\n\nThese nations also take part in inter-continental trade blocs. Mexico takes a part in the G3 Free Trade Agreement with Colombia and Venezuela and has a trade agreement with the EU. The United States has proposed and maintained trade agreements under the Transatlantic Free Trade Area between itself and the European Union; the US-Middle East Free Trade Area between numerous Middle Eastern nations and itself; and the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership between Southeast Asian nations, Australia, and New Zealand.\n\nThe Pan-American Highway route in the Americas is the portion of a network of roads nearly in length which travels through the mainland nations. No definitive length of the Pan-American Highway exists because the US and Canadian governments have never officially defined any specific routes as being part of the Pan-American Highway, and Mexico officially has many branches connecting to the US border. However, the total length of the portion from Mexico to the northern extremity of the highway is roughly .\n\nThe First Transcontinental Railroad in the United States was built in the 1860s, linking the railroad network of the eastern US with California on the Pacific coast. Finished on 10 May 1869 at the famous golden spike event at Promontory Summit, Utah, it created a nationwide mechanized transportation network that revolutionized the population and economy of the American West, catalyzing the transition from the wagon trains of previous decades to a modern transportation system. Although an accomplishment, it achieved the status of first transcontinental railroad by connecting myriad eastern US railroads to the Pacific and was not the largest single railroad system in the world. The Canadian Grand Trunk Railway (GTR) had, by 1867, already accumulated more than of track by connecting Ontario with the Canadian Atlantic provinces west as far as Port Huron, Michigan, through Sarnia, Ontario.\n\nA shared telephone system known as the North American Numbering Plan (NANP) is an integrated telephone numbering plan of 24 countries and territories: the United States and its territories, Canada, Bermuda, and 17 Caribbean nations.\n\nCanada and the United States were both former British colonies. There is frequent cultural interplay between the United States and English-speaking Canada. Greenland shares some cultural ties with the indigenous people of Canada but is considered Nordic and has strong Danish ties due to centuries of colonization by Denmark. Spanish-speaking North America shares a common past as former Spanish colonies. In Mexico and the Central American countries where civilizations like the Maya developed, indigenous people preserve traditions across modern boundaries. Central American and Spanish-speaking Caribbean nations have historically had more in common due to geographical proximity.\n\nNorthern Mexico, particularly in the cities of Monterrey, Tijuana, Ciudad Juárez, and Mexicali, is strongly influenced by the culture and way of life of the United States. Of the aforementioned cities, Monterrey has been regarded as the most Americanized city in Mexico. Immigration to the United States and Canada remains a significant attribute of many nations close to the southern border of the US. The Anglophone Caribbean states have witnessed the decline of the British Empire and its influence on the region, and its replacement by the economic influence of Northern America. In the Anglophone Caribbean. This is partly due to the relatively small populations of the English-speaking Caribbean countries, and also because many of them now have more people living abroad than those remaining at home. Northern Mexico, the Western United States and Alberta, Canada share a cowboy culture.\n\nCanada, Mexico and the US submitted a joint bid to host the 2026 FIFA World Cup.\nThe following table shows the most prominent sports leagues in North America, in order of average revenue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9223916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9223916", "title": "Northern Indochina subtropical moist forests", "text": "Northern Indochina subtropical moist forests\n\nThe Northern Indochina subtropical moist forests are a subtropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion of northern Indochina, covering portions of Vietnam, Laos, Thailand, Myanmar, and China's Yunnan Province.\n\nThe Northern Indochina subtropical forests occupy the highlands of northern Indochina, extending from Northeastern Vietnam, where they cover the upper portion of the Red River watershed and to the northern Annamite Range, across northern Laos and northernmost Thailand and southeastern Yunnan to Shan State in eastern Myanmar.\n\nThe Northern Indochina subtropical forests are a transition between the tropical forests of Indochina and the subtropical and temperate forests of China and the Tibetan Plateau.\n\n"}
{"id": "1696747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1696747", "title": "Organic horticulture", "text": "Organic horticulture\n\nOrganic horticulture is the science and art of growing fruits, vegetables, flowers, or ornamental plants by following the essential principles of organic agriculture in soil building and conservation, pest management, and heirloom variety preservation.\n\nThe Latin words \"hortus\" (garden plant) and \"cultura\" (culture) together form \"horticulture\", classically defined as the culture or growing of garden plants. \"Horticulture\" is also sometimes defined simply as “agriculture minus the plough.” Instead of the plough, horticulture makes use of human labour and gardener’s hand tools, although some small machine tools like rotary tillers are commonly employed now.\n\nMulches, cover crops, compost, manures, vermicompost, and mineral supplements are soil-building mainstays that distinguish this type of farming from its commercial counterpart. Through attention to good healthy soil condition, it is expected that insect, fungal, or other problems that sometimes plague plants can be minimized. However, pheromone traps, insecticidal soap sprays, and other pest-control methods available to organic farmers are also utilized by organic horticulturists.\n\nHorticulture involves five areas of study. These areas are floriculture (includes production and marketing of floral crops), landscape horticulture (includes production, marketing and maintenance of landscape plants), olericulture (includes production and marketing of vegetables), pomology (includes production and marketing of fruits), and postharvest physiology (involves maintaining quality and preventing spoilage of horticultural crops). All of these can be, and sometimes are, pursued according to the principles of organic cultivation.\n\nOrganic horticulture (or organic gardening) is based on knowledge and techniques gathered over thousands of years. In general terms, organic horticulture involves natural processes, often taking place over extended periods of time, and a sustainable, holistic approach - while chemical-based horticulture focuses on immediate, isolated effects and reductionist strategies.\n\nThere are a number of formal organic gardening and farming systems that prescribe specific techniques. They tend to be more specific than, and fit within, general organic standards. Forest gardening, a fully organic food production system which dates from prehistoric times, is thought to be the world's oldest and most resilient agroecosystem.\n\nBiodynamic farming is an approach based on the esoteric teachings of Rudolf Steiner. The Japanese farmer and writer Masanobu Fukuoka invented a no-till system for small-scale grain production that he called Natural Farming. French intensive gardening and biointensive methods and SPIN Farming (Small Plot INtensive) are all small scale gardening techniques. These techniques were brought to the United States by Alan Chadwick in the 1930s. This method has since been promoted by John Jeavons, Director of Ecology Action. A garden is more than just a means of providing food, it is a model of what is possible in a community - everyone could have a garden of some kind (container, growing box, raised bed) and produce healthy, nutritious organic food, a farmers market, a place to pass on gardening experience, and a sharing of bounty, promoting a more sustainable way of living that would encourage their local economy. A simple 4' x 8' (32 square feet) raised bed garden based on the principles of bio-intensive planting and square foot gardening uses fewer nutrients and less water, and could keep a family, or community, supplied with an abundance of healthy, nutritious organic greens, while promoting a more sustainable way of living.\n\nOrganic gardening is designed to work with the ecological systems and minimally disturb the Earth’s natural balance. Because of this organic farmers have been interested in reduced-tillage methods. Conventional agriculture uses mechanical tillage, which is plowing or sowing, which is harmful to the environment. The impact of tilling in organic farming is much less of an issue. Ploughing speeds up erosion because the soil remains uncovered for a long period of time and if it has a low content of organic matter, the structural stability of the soil decreases. Organic farmers use techniques such as mulching, planting cover crops, and intercropping, to maintain a soil cover throughout most of the year. The use of compost, manure mulch and other organic fertilizers yields a higher organic content of soils on organic farms and helps limit soil degradation and erosion.\n\nOther methods such as composting or vermicomposting can also be used to supplement an existing garden. These practices are ways of recycling organic matter into some of the best organic fertilizers and soil conditioner. Vermicompost is especially easy. The byproduct is also an excellent source of nutrients for an organic garden.\n\nDiffering approaches to pest control are equally notable. In chemical horticulture, a specific insecticide may be applied to quickly kill off a particular insect pest. Chemical controls can dramatically reduce pest populations in the short term, yet by unavoidably killing (or starving) natural control insects and animals, cause an increase in the pest population in the long term, thereby creating an ever-increasing problem. Repeated use of insecticides and herbicides also encourages rapid natural selection of resistant insects, plants and other organisms, necessitating increased use, or requiring new, more powerful controls.\n\nIn contrast, organic horticulture tends to tolerate some pest populations while taking the long view. Organic pest control requires a thorough understanding of pest life cycles and interactions, and involves the cumulative effect of many techniques, including:\n\nEach of these techniques also provides other benefits, such as soil protection and improvement, fertilization, pollination, water conservation and season extension. These benefits are both complementary and cumulative in overall effect on site health. Organic pest control and biological pest control can be used as part of integrated pest management (IPM). However, IPM can include the use of chemical pesticides that are not part of organic or biological techniques.\n\nOne controversy associated with organic food production is the matter of the amount of food produced per acre. Even with good organic practices, organic agriculture may be five to twenty-five percent less productive than conventional agriculture, depending on the crop.\n\nMuch of the productivity advantage of conventional agriculture is associated with the use of nitrogen fertilizer. However, the use, and especially the overuse, of nitrogen fertilizer has negative effects such as nitrogen runoff harming natural water supplies and increased global warming.\nOrganic methods have other advantages, such as healthier soil, that may make organic farming more resilient, and therefore more reliable in producing food, in the face of challenges such as climate change.\n\nAs well, world hunger is not primarily an issue of agricultural yields, but distribution and waste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31281070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31281070", "title": "Paps of Anu", "text": "Paps of Anu\n\nThe Paps of Anu (, \"the breasts of Anu\") are a pair of breast shaped mountains near Killarney in County Kerry, Ireland. The eastern summit, The Paps East, is high and the western top, The Paps West is high.\n\nThe mountains are named after Anu; believed to have been an ancient mother goddess. \"Cormac's Glossary\" describes Anu or Danu as \"the mother of the gods of Ireland\". On each summit is a prehistoric cairn, which may be miniature passage graves or house burial cists. The cairn on the eastern Pap is slightly larger, with a height of and diameter of . They have been described as \"stone nipples on the great breasts of the mother goddess\". A line of stones, known as \"Na Fiacla\", connects the two tops and is believed to have been a processional route. Archeologist Frank Coyne suggested that the mountains were seen as sacred and said \"There is little doubt that the mountaintops of both The Paps…were utilized for ritual in prehistory\". To the ancients, the mountains reinforced the idea that the Earth was a motherly body. \n\nThere is a stream running between the mountains. One half flows north into a small lake called Lough Nageeha and the other half flows south into the Clydagh River.\n\nTo the northeast of the peaks is an ancient circular stone enclosure called Cahercrovdarrig (\"Cathair Crobh Dearg,\" 'Red Claw Fort/City') or 'The City'. The Paps can be clearly seen from Cahercrovdarrig and it appears that the two sites are linked. It contains a possible ruined megalithic tomb, an ogham stone, an earthen mound, a holy well and a cross-inscribed stone altar. When the water table is high enough, the water \"noisily bubbles up from its depths\".\n\nIt is believed that the site is named after the goddess Crobh Dearg and was originally used for Beltane ritualsand festivities. Over time, the site and the festivities became somewhat Christianized. A yearly May Day festival was held there up until World War II. According to local folklorist Dan Cronin, the festival involved music, dancing, drinking, and \"champions…performing feats of valour\". People would circle the well and the other features of the site while reciting prayers. They would also walk their cattle around the well as a purification ritual. In 1925 the festivities \"were augmented…for the first time in modern memory, with the inclusion of a Mass\". In his sermon, the priest commented that \"The pagan danger is now past. Paganism is dead, or rather all the best elements in it have been absorbed into Christianity\". After World War II, \"all that remained of the event were the penitential rites, observed by the occasional visitor on any day of the year, and by a small crowd celebrating Mass there each May Day\". A statue of Mary has been erected at the site. In 1983 a local affiliate of Comhaltas Ceoltóirí Éireann, the Irish cultural organization, working with the parish priest, reintroduced music and dance to the May Day festival at Cahercrovdarrig.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4545084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4545084", "title": "Peter Martyr d'Anghiera", "text": "Peter Martyr d'Anghiera\n\nPeter Martyr d'Anghiera ( or \"ab Angleria\"; ; ; 2 February 1457 – October 1526), formerly known in English as Peter Martyr of Angleria, was an Italian historian at the service of Spain during the Age of Exploration. He wrote the first accounts of explorations in Central and South America in a series of letters and reports, grouped in the original Latin publications of 1511 to 1530 into sets of ten chapters called \"decades.\" His \"Decades\" are of great value in the history of geography and discovery. His \"De Orbe Novo\" (On the New World, 1530) describes the first contacts of Europeans and Native Americans, Native American civilizations in the Caribbean and North America, as well as Mesoamerica, and includes, for example, the first European reference to India rubber. It was first translated into English in 1555, and in a fuller version in 1912.\n\nMartyr was born February 2, 1457 at Lake Maggiore in Arona in Piedmont and later named for the nearby city of Angera. He studied under Giovanni Borromeo, then the count of Arona. He went to Rome at the age of twenty, and met important men in the hierarchy of the Catholic Church. After meeting the Spanish ambassador in Rome, Martyr accompanied him to Zaragoza in August 1487. Martyr soon became a notable figure among the humanists of Spain. In 1488 he lectured in Salamanca on the invitation of the university. The new learning was supported by highly placed patrons in the society. Martyr would become chaplain to the court of Ferdinand and Isabella.\n\nAfter 1492, Martyr's chief task was the education of young nobles at the Spanish court. In 1501 he was sent to Egypt on a diplomatic mission to dissuade the Sultan of Egypt from taking vengeance on the Christians in Egypt and Palestine for the defeat of the Moors in Spain and the Fall of Granada. This he achieved by strongly asserting that there were no forced conversions and that Granada Muslims had asked for baptism of their own volition - plus, more importantly, promising Spanish help to Egypt against the threat of conquest by the Ottomans . He described his voyage through Egypt in the \"Legatio Babylonica,\" which was published in the 1511 edition of his \"Decades\". Following the success of this mission, he received the title of \"maestro de los caballeros\" (master of knights).\n\nIn 1520 Martyr was given the post of chronicler (\"cronista\") in the newly formed Council of the Indies, commissioned by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor to describe what was occurring in the explorations of the New World. In 1523 Charles gave him the title of Count Palatine, and in 1524 called him once more into the Council of the Indies. Martyr was invested by Pope Clement VII, as proposed by Charles V, as Abbot of Jamaica. Although Martyr never visited the island, as abbot he directed construction of the first stone church there.\n\nHe died in Granada in 1526.\n\nPeter Martyr was a prolific writer. He is estimated to have composed some eight hundred letters addressed to various illustrious persons relating events in Spain and the Spanish court, written in a journalistic style, often quite gossipy. Moving in court circles, Peter Martyr was personally acquainted with most of the leading figures of the day, and it is from his letters that historians have drawn much of the details about their physical appearance, personality, quirks and anecdotes.\n\nIt was as a chronicler that Martyr performed his most notable literary work. He collected documents and accounts from the discoverers as well as personally interviewing them. He learned from the letters of Christopher Columbus and made use of the reports of the Council of the Indies. He had a great grasp of geographical issues; he was the first European to realize the significance of the Gulf Stream.\n\nIn 1511, his publications included the first historical account of the Spanish discoveries: \"Opera, Legatio, Babylonica, Oceanidecas, Paemata, Epigrammata\" (Seville, 1511). The \"Decas\" consisted of ten reports, two of which Martyr had previously sent as letters describing the voyages of Columbus, to Cardinal Ascanius Sforza in 1493 and 1494. In 1501 Martyr, as requested by the Cardinal Luigi d'Aragona, added eight chapters on the voyage of Columbus and the exploits of Martin Alonzo Pinzón. In 1511 he added a supplement giving an account of events from 1501 to 1511.\n\nJointly with this \"Decade\", he published a narrative of his experiences in Egypt with a description of the inhabitants, their country, and history. By 1516 he had finished two other \"Decades\":\n\nIn 1530 the eight \"Decades\" were published together for the first time at Alcalá. Later editions of single or of all the \"Decades\" appeared at Basel (1533), Cologne (1574), Paris (1587), and Madrid (1892). A German translation was published in Basle in 1582; an English version may be found in Arber, \"The first three English books on America\" (Birmingham, 1885); a French one by Gaffarel in \"Recueil de voyages et de documents pour servir à l'histoire de la Geographie\" (Paris, 1907).\n\nMartyr also wrote the historical account, \"Opus epistolarum,\" although it was not edited or published until after his death. This collection consists of 812 letters to or from ecclesiastical dignitaries, generals, and statesmen of Spain and Italy, dealing with contemporary events, and especially with the history of Spain between 1487 and 1525. It was published first at Alcalá in 1530; a new edition was issued by the House of Elzevir at Amsterdam in 1670.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12765806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12765806", "title": "Pieter van Woensel (doctor)", "text": "Pieter van Woensel (doctor)\n\nPieter van Woensel (Haarlem, 1747 – The Hague, 1808) was a physician, adventurer, travel writer, navy medical officer, political cartoonist and a colourful, atheist author under the Turkish pseudonym Amurath-Effendi Hekim-Bachi (‘Chief Physician Mister Amurath’) in the satirical almanac \"de Lantaarn\" (the Lamp). Typical for Van Woensel is his love for the peculiar, dislike for the easy route and inborn tendency towards the paradoxical.\n\nVan Woensel was a student at the Leiden University. In 1771 he left for Saint Petersburg as an army physician. For an appointment at the Hospital of the Petersburg Cadets he had Jan Hendrik van Kinsbergen to thank. In 1780, he returned to Amsterdam. His brief communications in 1780 and 1782 on his findings of improving the treatment of whooping cough (in young Russian cadets) continued to be cited in the specialist literature well into the 1830s. In 1781, he published \"the Present State of Russia\", a book that was translated in French, German, Polish, Italian and Russian. In 1782, he published \"Précis\", a much reworked French summary of Abbot Raynal’s \"Histoire des deux Indes\", followed by a further abridged and paraphrased Dutch version, as \"Tafreel\", in 1784. Curiously, he appears to have removed all its content regarding anti-colonialism and the abolition of slavery. Unrest drove him and in 1784, he spent one and a half years in Constantinople and published on Turkish society in 1791, an important reason why his work caused so much interest.\n\nHe joined a group of Englishmen travelling to India, via Bagdad, but already in Diyarbakır he decided to travel by himself, because the company bored him. After a stay in Erzurum, he crossed the Pontic Mountains in bad weather, and spent several days in plague-ridden Trabzon on the Black Sea, before sailing to the Crimea, where he settled in Sevastopol for two years as navy doctor in Russian service. He describes the visit of Catharina II of Russia at the newly conquered territory. His research on the plague appeared in French in St. Petersburg (1788), and was translated into Russian by Andrej Kazimirovitsj Mejer (Moscow, 1791). Later, in \"Aanteekeningen\" (\"Remarks\") he went one step further, elaborating on the fundamental natural law of self-preservation. To deter the superior Russians, the Turks, thus Van Woensel, were allowed to threaten biological warfare, in the form of deliberately spreading the plague.\n\nBack in Amsterdam, he was appointed naval-physician to the Admiralty of Amsterdam. Van Woensel travelled as a ship doctor with the fleet to Surinam, Demerara and Berbice. His typically Woenselian, sometimes acrid account of local (slavery) conditions in \"De Lantaarn voor 1796\" acquired lasting notoriety in Surinamica. In 1797, he travelled again to Russia as a secret agent, seeing the coronation of Paul I of Russia on 5 April.\n\nIn his almanac Van Woensel wrote in favour of a divorce procedure and, an atheist himself, a healthy dose of self-reflection regarding Muslims and Jews. (Nevertheless, though feeling that the Turks, among all nations, treated Jews 'the most \"christianly\",' he found that non-Muslims living under the Turks were ‘kept in utter abasement, [and] are basically treated like dogs.’) He states that the prime function of the state is to provide work for its inhabitants. The almanac was banned because he wrote under a pseudonym, banned since the state regulation of 1798. Apart from his work on Raynal, he also translated Thomas Paine, \"The decline and fall of the English system of finance\" into Dutch, as \"De daaling en val van het systhema der Engelsche finantiën\" (1796). In 1802, Van Woensel, a Cervantista by his own admission, published a much abridged and reworked Dutch version (based on a hitherto unknown source) of \"Don Quixote\". With illustrations assumed to be by his own hand, and written in modern, lively Dutch, it finally replaced Lambert van den Bosch’s antiquated classic after almost 150 years. In 1804 his \"Rusland beschouwd\" (Russia considered...) was published. Van Woensel called a spade a spade and uttered his opinions on slavery and serfdom. He was critical of Russian policies carried out by Grigori Potemkin, a wind bag according to Van Woensel.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4852560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4852560", "title": "President of Artsakh", "text": "President of Artsakh\n\nThe President of Artsakh is the head of state and head of government of the \"de facto\" Republic of Artsakh.\n\nIn a constitutional referendum held in 2017, citizens of the Republic voted in favor of transforming Artsakh into a presidential system. On 19 July 2017 the National Assembly voted to elect the President for the next three years until the next general election which will be held in 2020. The incumbent, Bako Sahakyan, was re-elected. If it wasn’t for the amendment to the constitution, he would have had to step down in 2017 after serving two consecutive five-year terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "22428258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22428258", "title": "SCR-277", "text": "SCR-277\n\nThe SCR-277 was a mobile, trailer mounted radio range set for radio guidance of aircraft. It was standardized by the U.S. Army in June 1941.\nThe SCR-277 was used as a navigation aid. It included the BC-467 transmitter with an RF output power of 800 watts, the BC-468 Goniometer, and BC-342 receiver. Frequencies utilized were 200-400 kHz for transmission and 1.5-18 MHz for reception. Radio range homing equipment transmitted tone identification signals to aircraft that lacked a radio compass but were equipped with command sets. Range was approximately 300 miles. It was powered by a single PE-90 generator.\n\nIn operation the transmitter sends out signals coded \"A\" or \"N\" in each of the four quadrants around the beacon. The signals overlap on the range, providing the pilot of the aircraft an indication of his position in relation to location of the beacon. Thus, if he is heading toward the beacon he will receive an aural signal coded \"A\" or \"N\" if he is between the beam, and when he is on the beam he will receive \"AN\" signal. Over land areas the beacon has a range of about 300 miles, while over water areas the range is extended to about 1,000 miles. Charts prepared for air navigation show the position and the orientation of the various beacons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58300827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58300827", "title": "Samuel Klein (scholar)", "text": "Samuel Klein (scholar)\n\nSamuel Klein (; lived 17 November 1886 – 21 April 1940) was a Hungarian-born rabbi, historian and historical geographer in Mandatory Palestine. \n\nBorn in Hungary to Idel Hertzfeld and to Avraham Zvi Klein, a rabbi of Szilas-Balhas in western Hungary, he initially received a traditional Jewish education (1893–1897), graduating from the Government Gymnasium at Budapest in 1905. From there he went on to study at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Berlin where he was ordained in the rabbinate. From 1906–1909, he was enrolled at the Hochschule für Wissenschaft des Judentums, and in the Freidrich-Wilhelm University of Berlin, before advancing to Heidelberg University where he wrote a thesis entitled: \"Beiträge zur Geographie und Geschichte Galiläas\" (Leipzig 1909) (Contributions to the Geography and History of Galilee), his first important contributions to the science of Historical Topography of the Holy Land. In it, he gave an incisive analysis of the topographical and historical material preserved in the liturgical poems of Kalir, and by which novel work he received in 1909 his PhD. \n\nHe served as a rabbi in the city of Tuzla in Bosnia from 1909–1913, during which time, in 1911, the \"Association for Jewish Studies\" in Berlin awarded him a research grant of 500 Marks which enabled him to conduct research in Palestine. After he had taken a wife in 1913, he then served as the rabbi of the town of Érsekújvár (Nové Zámky) (1913-1928). During the First World War, Klein was conscripted in the Austro-Hungarian army as a rabbi, and became the patron and benefactor of some 200 refugees who came to Nové Zámky in search of a new life. \n\nIn 1924, Klein became the first professor of the newly opened \"Institute of Jewish Studies\", which was to form part of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. In 1927, Klein was an instructor at the \"Hebrew Pedagogical Institute\" in Vienna, an institute involved in training of Hebrew teachers for the countries of Central Europe and the Balkans. In 1929 he immigrated to Mandatory Palestine where he began work as Professor of Geography of the Land of Israel at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and worked in this capacity until his death. While at the Hebrew University, Klein was chairperson of the \"Historical Topography of Palestine\". He is the author of many books and articles, both in Hebrew and in German, mostly treating on the subject of historical geography.\nKlein's research on the geography of the Land of Israel has helped promote a greater understanding of the map of ancient Israel / Palestine, and whose works have been incorporated in Hebrew schools in the Diaspora and in Israel.\n\nIn Mandatory Palestine, he became a member of the Hebrew Language Committee, as well as participated in committees on Geography and Archaeology. In his final years, he served as the President of the Jewish Palestine Exploration Society, a consortium of British Mandate scholars. He died at the age of 53 in his home in the Bukharim quarter of Jerusalem on the eve of Passover, 1940, and was buried at the cemetery on the Mount of Olives. Yitzhak Ben-Zvi, William F. Albright, and David Yellin wrote moving eulogies of the man upon his death. In the words of Albright: \"Samuel Klein represents Jewish philological research at its best; his erudition was exhaustive, covering Graeco-Roman as well as Hebrew and Aramaic sources; his critical judgment was sound and highly developed; his acumen and insight into complex historical and topographical situations were unsurpassed among specialists in the field.\" Klein's greatest contribution to scholastic research is his identification of old place names in Palestine during the classical period, drawn principally from the Hebrew Bible, Mishnah, Tosefta, Talmud, and from the writings of Josephus in transliterated Greek-form, as well as from other epigraphic texts of antiquity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30257865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30257865", "title": "Schrofen", "text": "Schrofen\n\nSchrofen, a German mountaineering term, is steep terrain, strewn with rocks and rock outcrops, that is laborious to cross, but whose rock ledges (\"schrofen\") offer many good steps and hand holds. It is usually rocky terrain on which grass has established itself, but it can also refer to purely rocky slopes. \"Schrofen\" are found especially where the rock has broken off against its angle of dip.\n\n\"Schrofen\" differs from trackless terrain in that hands are needed in order to negotiate it. Often there are route markings that only indicate a rough direction. \n\n\"Schrofen\" terrain requires at least sure-footedness and is typical of grade I climbing routes. In wet weather \"schrofen\" can become very dangerous because of the increased risk of slipping, particularly in the descent. In addition, the risk of falling in \"schrofen\" terrain is often underestimated.\n\nIn keeping with the base meaning of the word (\"rock spikes\"), \"schrofen\" also forms part of the name of numerous mountains in the Northern Limestone Alps. Alpine farms near a \"schrofen\" are often named after it, as are their access roads, e.g.: \"Ob dm Schrofa, Schrofaweg\". The word is linked to the German adjective \"schroff\" which means rugged, steep or craggy.\n\n"}
{"id": "57001017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57001017", "title": "Semnan Space Center", "text": "Semnan Space Center\n\nOn occasion of the 10th anniversary of the 1998 Kwangmyongsong 1 satellite launch attempt, program conducted by North Korea in close cooperation with Iran and Pakistan, the Iranian Space Agency has proceeded with its own test. According to practice also observed by North Korea, Iranian authorities announced to their Chinese allies on August 16, 2008 the imminent launch of a satellite. On August 17, 2008 on the occasion of the birthday anniversary of Shia's 12th Imam Mahdi, Iran proceeded as preannounced with the second test launch of a three stages Safir SLV from a site south of Semnan in the northern part of the Dasht-e-Kavir desert. Reza Taghizadeh, head of the Iranian Aerospace Organization, told state television \"The Safir (Ambassador) satellite carrier was launched today and for the first time we successfully launched a dummy satellite into orbit\". As reported in late 2009 and early 2010, a new, larger launch pad was under construction at \n\nThe circular launch platform is the oldest launch pad and also recognizable by the light blue background with the original logo of the Iran Space Agency (ISA).The platform has a simplified character and consists of a leveled terrain with a circular asphalted section of a diameter of 65 m, at the center of which is a service tower.\n\nThe main launch Platform is located at the east of the complex on a specially enclosed octagonal area measuring 900 x 660 m and covering an area of 51.4 ha, representing the largest single element of the new space center.The units are accessed by a road from the northwest, which is within the perimeter of the three rays and forms two main inner zones – almost completely built lower and newly initiated upper (state of 2015). The lower zone consists of spacious launching platforms with towers and four larger compartments for installation and storage.\n"}
{"id": "27222527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27222527", "title": "South African Geographical Journal", "text": "South African Geographical Journal\n\nThe South African Geographical Journal is the official journal of the Society of South African Geographers. The journal was established in 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "23610484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23610484", "title": "Subdivisions of Lesotho", "text": "Subdivisions of Lesotho\n\nAdministratively, Lesotho is divided into ten districts, each headed by a district administrator. Each district has a capital known as a \"camptown\".\n\nThe districts are further subdivided into 80 constituencies, which consists of 129 local community councils.\n"}
{"id": "55723898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55723898", "title": "The Passage of Love", "text": "The Passage of Love\n\nThe Passage of Love is a 2017 novel by the Australian author Alex Miller.\n\n\"The Real Truth in Novels\", Jason Steger, 'The Sydney Morning Herald', 4 November 2017, \n"}
{"id": "11244517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11244517", "title": "Umoja, Kenya", "text": "Umoja, Kenya\n\nUmoja Uaso (\"unity\" in Swahili, the Uaso Nyiro is a nearby river), is a village in Kenya. The village, founded in 1990, is an all-female matriarch village located near the town of Archers Post in Samburu County, from the capital, Nairobi. It was founded by Rebecca Lolosoli, a Samburu woman, as a sanctuary for homeless survivors of violence against women, and young girls running from forced marriages. The women of the Samburu people do not agree with violence and the traditional subordinate position of women.\n\nThey run a primary school, cultural center and camping site for tourists visiting the adjacent Samburu National Reserve. They create and sell jewellery to benefit the village.\n\nSamburu women have a subordinate position in their society. They are not allowed to own land or other types of property, such as livestock. Women themselves are considered property of their husbands. They can be subject to female genital mutilation, forced marriage with the elders, rape and domestic violence. In the early 1990s, there were over 600 reports of Kenyan women who were raped by British soldiers. Since then, a case was brought up against the military for the rapes of over 1,400 Samburu women. The case was cleared. These women were abandoned by their husbands because they were considered to be \"defiled.\" Other men drove the women out of their houses fearing they would now contract sexually transmitted diseases from their raped wives.\n\nAfter many women found themselves without homes, they created Umoja. Rebecca Lolosoli is one of the founders of Umoja, and came up with the idea of creating a village for women when she was recovering after being beaten for speaking out. Eventually fifteen women came together to found the original village in 1990.\n\nIn response, some men established their own, eventually unsuccessful villages nearby. The men tried to set up a rival craft business or would try to dissuade tourists from stopping at Umoja. The women eventually bought the land the men were occupying.\n\nThe villagers first started out by selling vegetables they bought from others, since they did not know how to farm themselves. This was not very successful, and the village turned to selling traditional crafts to tourists. The Kenya Wildlife Services took notice and helped the women learn from successful groups in areas such as the Maasai Mara, in order to improve Umoja's business. The women also had help from Kenya's Heritage and Social Services and the Ministry of Culture.\n\nAfter Lolosoli visited the United Nations in 2005, men in the neighboring village filed a court case against her, hoping to shut down the village. In 2009, Lolosoli's former husband attacked the village, threatening her life. For a time, the women fled the village for their safety.\n\nThe women of the village currently own the land itself.\n\nUmoja is located in north-central Kenya in Samburu County, near Archers Post. The village is made up of \"manyata\" huts built from a mixture of earth and cow dung on an abandoned grassland. The houses are surrounded by a fence of thorns and barbed wire. \n\nThe people of the village have an objective to \"improve the livelihoods of women due to rampant poverty and counter the problem of women being abandoned by their families.\" The village also takes in runaways or girls who have been thrown out of their households, and raises orphans, abandoned children and children with HIV. The village has also provided asylum for women fleeing violence from the Turkana District.\n\nResidents in the community must all wear the traditional clothing and beadwork of the Samburu people. Female genital mutilation is outlawed in the village. \n\nMen are permitted to visit the village, but not allowed to live in Umoja. Only men who were raised as children in Umoja may sleep in the village. \n\nIn 2005, there were 30 women and 50 children living in Umoja. As of 2015, there were 47 women and 200 children living in the village.\n\nResidents of Umoja are engaged in traditional Samburu crafts which they sell at the Umoja Waso Women's Cultural Center. Crafts include colorful beads, a home-brewed low-alcohol beer analogue and more. The items are also available on a website. The women also run a campsite for tourists. Every woman donates ten percent of their earnings to the village as a tax to support the school and other needs.\n\nIn traditional society, children are engaged in tending livestock, but in Umoja, all children can get an education. There is a primary school that can accommodate 50 children. The village has also been able to open a nursery school. \n\nResidents of the village go to other villages to promote women's rights and in order to campaign against female circumcision. \n\nThe women of the village gather under the \"tree of speech\" to make decisions for the town. Lolosoli serves as the chairperson of the village. All women in the village have equal status to one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2398181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2398181", "title": "Vulture (region)", "text": "Vulture (region)\n\nThe Vulture (, ), also known as the Vulture-Melfese or Vulture-Alto Bradano is a geographical and historical region in the northern part of the province of Potenza, in the Basilicata region of Italy.\n\nThe area consists of the comuni of Atella, Barile, Ginestra, Melfi, Rapolla, Ripacandida, Rionero in Vulture, Maschito, Venosa, Ruvo del Monte, Rapone, and San Fele. The area takes its name from the extinct volcano Monte Vulture (1326 m). Sights include the two lakes of Monticchio within the crater of the volcano, and the castles of Frederick II of Hohenstaufen at Castel Lagopesole and Melfi.\n\nThe fertile volcanic soil of the Vulture is suitable for the cultivation of grapes and olives. The DOC wine Aglianico del Vulture is produced in the region, as are Aglianico dolce, a dessert wine, Aglianico di Filiano, Malvasia del Vulture and Moscato del Vulture. The area of Monte Vulture has numerous springs, and several brands of mineral water are bottled there. \n\n\n"}
