{"id": "1191843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1191843", "title": "AGO system", "text": "AGO system\n\nThe AGO system is the industrial process for manufacturing stitchless (glued) shoes. \n\nThe first effective and reliable adhesive was invented and patented in 1909 by the Italian chemist Francesco Rampichini, who also developed the whole manufacturing process and the relevant machinery in 1910–13.\n\nThe name AGO (from the Greek \"ago\", meaning \"attract\", \"fasten\"), still used in the industry, was chosen by Rampichini for the glue and the process in 1910.\n\nFor earlier unsuccessful trials, starting with J. Bernard of France, 1857, and technical details, see \"Die mechanische Schuhreparatur\", by Felix Fluss, Vienna 1932.\n"}
{"id": "13866265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13866265", "title": "Abdul Aziz bin Fahd", "text": "Abdul Aziz bin Fahd\n\nAbdul Aziz bin Fahd () is a Saudi Arabian Prince and member of the Royal House of Saud.\n\nHis mother is Al Jawhara bint Ibrahim Al Ibrahim, belonging to the wealthy Al Ibrahim family.\n\nAbdul Aziz bin Fahd received a bachelor of arts degree in administrative sciences from King Saud University.\n\nPrince Abdul Aziz was first appointed as minister of state without portfolio in May 1998. Then, he was made head of the Office of the Council of Ministers in January 2000, when he was 28 years old. It was reported that after King Fahd's death, he began to live in Switzerland and came to Saudi Arabia to participate in the meetings of the Council of Ministers.\n\nOn 26 June 2011, he was relieved from his position as head of the court of Cabinet affairs by a royal decree. It was declared that he resigned from his posts of minister of State and member of the Council of Ministers at his own request in June 2011.\n\nHis ties with Saudi Oger were well known in Saudi Arabia. The company was founded by Rafik Hariri, who built Saudi Oger into a large company with the assistance of King Fahd. Hariri said ‘The meat on my shoulder is from King Fahd,’ according to As'ad Abu Khalil, a professor of political science at California State University Stanislaus, who has written several books and runs the blog The Angry Arab News Service. Hariri, also a former prime minister of Lebanon, was assassinated in 2005. His son, Saad Hariri, took over Saudi Oger and became Lebanon’s prime minister for 14 months before he was ousted in 2011. Saad Hariri and Prince Abdul Aziz are known to be close.\n\nAbdul Aziz bin Fahd owned fifty percent of the MBC, of which the remainder is owned by his maternal uncle Waleed bin Ibrahim al Ibrahim. It is reported that Prince Abdul Aziz dealt with both the profits and the ideology of MBC Channels, including al Arabiya.\n\nIt emerged in a New York Supreme Court affidavit that he was the secret owner of a $1 billion property portfolio in the US which owns the American headquarters of the oil giant BP and the defence contractor BAe Systems. In January 2002 The Daily Telegraph newspaper valued the portfolio at £4 billion. The affidavit, which was subsequently partially sealed by the judge but had already become available on internet blogs stated that the properties were being managed by a group which included Sheikh Majid Al Ibrahim, Prince’s maternal uncle, and that total control of the portfolio was ultimately seized by Interventure Capital Group and Interventure Advisers, both of Manhattan, New York. According to a press release issued by Hyatt Hotels Corporation, Interventure Capital Group is run by Jaber Al Ibrahim and is an adviser to Naseel Holding Company, the Al Ibrahim family investment vehicle chaired by Sheikh Majid Al Ibrahim.\n\nAccording to a report in \"The Daily Telegraph\" in October 2010, Interventure Capital Group is also behind another major portfolio of properties which had been controlled by a UK-based company, StratREAL. Assets purchased by StratREAL on behalf of Prince Abdul Aziz bin Fahd included Fifth Street Towers, a Minneapolis office complex, for $294 million in 2007. In May 2012, following a foreclosure on the complex for mortgage default, Fifth Street Towers was sold at a sheriff's auction for $1 over the outstanding debt of $110 million.\n\nA mansion at 5 Palace Green, on London's Kensington Palace Gardens (nicknamed \"Billionaires' Row\"), was reported to be being offered for sale by Abdul Aziz in July 2013 for £100 million.\n\nAbdul Aziz bin Fahd was previously one of King Abdullah's closest aides. However, later, he seemed to have had a falling out with the monarch and to have been close to his uncle, the late Crown Prince Nayef.\n\nAbdul Aziz received exactly half of all profits of the successful Middle East Broadcasting Corporation (MBC). He had a number of palaces in Saudi Arabia and around various other parts of the world which have cost over $2 billion which include:\n\n\nIn addition, he reportedly owned \"the Pyramid House\" on Hillcrest Road in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nAbdul Aziz bin Fahd married Al Anoud bint Faisal Al Saud in December 2010. His wife is a granddaughter of late Sultan bin Abdulaziz and of Mishaal bin Abdulaziz.\n\nHe dealt with camel racing in Saudi Arabia. His camels won the race organized in the Janadriyah festival in 2011.\n\nThe Prince owns a Boeing 777, a Boeing 737 Business Jet and a Canadair Challenger which uses frequently for pleasure travel.\n\nBefore he was himself purged, he was used in the kidnapping of Sultan bin Turki II bin Abdulaziz Al Saud.\n\nThe fate of Prince Abdul Aziz bin Fahd is uncertain. There were rumors that Abdul Aziz, age 44, was killed by a death squad while resisting arrest, but the Saudi information ministry released a statement saying that the prince was \"alive and well.\" A year later, Prince Nawaf bin Faisal tweeted a video showing that Abdul Aziz bin Fahd is still alive.\n\n"}
{"id": "55526631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55526631", "title": "Baker Library/Bloomberg Center", "text": "Baker Library/Bloomberg Center\n\nThe Baker Library/Bloomberg Center is a building complex at the Harvard Business School on the campus of Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.. It includes the Baker Library, built in 1927, and the Bloomberg Center, completed in 2005.\nThe construction of the Baker Library was completed in 1927. It was named for philanthropist George Fisher Baker. From 1930 to 2007, the bell in the town came from the Danilov Monastery in Moscow, Russia; it had been donated by Charles Richard Crane.\n\nThe Bloomberg Center was built in 2003-2005. It was named for billionaire alumnus Michael R. Bloomberg's father, William Henry Bloomberg.\n\nThe complex includes \"67 faculty offices,\" the de Gaspé Beaubien Reading Room (named for alumnus Philippe de Gaspé Beaubien), the Stamps Reading Room and the Frist Faculty Commons (named for philanthropist Thomas F. Frist Jr.).\n\nThe 1927 building was designed in the Georgian Revival architectural style by McKim, Mead & White. The 2005 expansion was designed by Robert A.M. Stern Architects.\n\nThe library collections contain many rare books and documents of business history.\n\n"}
{"id": "56954183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56954183", "title": "Bamboo Airways", "text": "Bamboo Airways\n\nBamboo Airways is a startup airline owned by Vietnamese construction company, FLC Group. The airline will be established with a charter capital of US$30.8 million. Bamboo Airways will be based at Quy Nhon’s Phu Cat Airport and will commence operations in late 2018 or early 2019. Bamboo Airways will serve destinations where FLC Group has heavily invested in tourism infrastructure, as well as other secondary domestic routes.\nThe airline was founded in 2017 and submitted it request to the Vietnamese prime minister for approval. The government's approval was confirmed on July 9, 2018 The airline will have to complete some procedures to acquire a licence of operation issued by the Ministry of Transport of Vietnam after it has been approved by the Prime Minister and the submitted dossiers for licence of operation have been reviewed by the Civil Aviation Administration of Vietnam.\n\nThe airline's application for a licence shall have an official verification of investment capital, a chart of the company’s internal system, a contract for selling or renting aircraft, the company’s operating and transportation guidelines, and a strategy for product development..\n\nThe dossiers for license of operation was reviewed qualified by the Civil Aviation Administration of Vietnam on July 27, 2018, and will be submitted to the Ministry of Transport for issuance of the license of operation.\n\nThe aviation licence was issued by the Ministry of Transport to Bamboo Airways on November 12, 2018. \n\nThe airline plans to launch with a fleet of 30 aircraft for domestic services. They have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Airbus for 24 Airbus A321neos. The airline will start operations with aircraft on lease from third party lessors before taking delivery of the aircraft from Airbus.\nFLC Group chairman met leaders of Boeing on June 25-26 in Washington D.C. and they mutually finalized the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Boeing for 20 Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft, worth USD$ 5.6 billion at list prices, scheduled to deliver from April 2020.\n\nThe first flights will be launched on October 10, 2018 to the Vietnamese cities: Hanoi, Vinh, Dong Hoi, Nha Trang, Qui Nhon, Phu Quoc \n"}
{"id": "15339016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15339016", "title": "Bank of America Building (Baltimore)", "text": "Bank of America Building (Baltimore)\n\nThe Bank of America Building, also known as 10 Light Street and formerly as the Baltimore Trust Company Building, is a 34 story, skyscraper located at the corner of East Baltimore and Light Streets in downtown Baltimore, Maryland.\n\n10 Light Street was the tallest building in the state, and the tallest office building in the United States south of New York City when constructed in 1929. The Art Deco building was designed by the firm of Taylor and Fisher, and completed in eighteen months, fashioned from Indiana sandstone and local brick over a steel frame at a cost of (U.S.) $3 million.\n\nThe building's exterior is decorated with carved Romanesque human and animal images, stylized eagles, and is capped with a copper and gold roof. The ornate, two-story main banking lobby is highly decorated with mosaic floors designed by Hildreth Meiere, and historic murals by Griffith Baily Coale and McGill Mackall on historic themes: the Baltimore fire of 1904, and the writing of the National Anthem at the Battle of Baltimore during the War of 1812. These murals are planned to be covered by artificial turf, so that the historic lobby can be used as an Under Armour gym.\n\nShortly after the Baltimore Trust Company moved into the building in 1929, the Great Depression began and the company foundered. The building was essentially vacant within a year, as the bank went into bankruptcy in 1933 and receivership in 1935. The empty building was subsequently used by the New Deal's Public Works Administration in Maryland.\n\nFrom the 1940s into the 1960s, the building was first known as the Mathieson Building and then the O'Sullivan Building, reflecting its then-current major tenants.\n\nDuring those years, Semmes, Bowen and Semmes, a major Maryland law firm with origins in the 19th century, occupied the twenty-first floor, and later as many as four whole floors (when the firm employed almost 150 attorneys), remaining in 10 Light Street until approximately 1990, at what was called the \"Baltimore Trust Building,\" according to the 1952 memoir of Whittaker Chambers, whose Semmes attorneys were Richard F. Cleveland (youngest son of President Grover Cleveland) and William D. Macmillan.\n\nIn 1961, the building was purchased by Maryland National Bank, successor of Baltimore Trust, and the building name was changed to \"Maryland National Bank Building.\" Maryland National was itself purchased by NationsBank in 1993, and the name of the building was changed again, to \"NationsBank Building.\" The structure then obtained its current name following the NationsBank merger with BankAmerica in 1997. Major portions of the building were restored, including the copper-clad dome, which is once again floodlit at night.\n\nIn December 2012 the building was acquired by a Virginia firm which plans to convert the upper floors into residential apartments. Bank of America announced that it would close the ground floor banking center in May 2013. Miles & Stockbridge, a prominent Baltimore law firm, had maintained offices in the building since 1932 when one of the firm's founders, Clarence Miles, moved into the building.\n\n"}
{"id": "1195386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1195386", "title": "Bill of sale", "text": "Bill of sale\n\nA bill of sale is a document that transfers ownership of goods from one person to another. It is used in situations where the former owner transfers possession of the goods to a new owner. Bills of sale may be used in a wide variety of transactions: people can sell their goods, exchange them, give them as gifts or mortgage them to get a loan. They can only be used:\nBills of sale exist at common law quite independently of any legislation. In England and Wales, they are regulated by two Victorian pieces of legislation: the Bills of Sale Act 1878 and the Bills of Sale Act (1878) Amendment Act 1882. This area of the law was subject to review by the Law Commission, which published a proposal for change in 2017.\n\nThe term “bill of sale” originally referred to any writing by which an absolute disposition of personalty for value was effected or evidenced. A common feature of such dispositions is that the owner mortgagor remains in possession and exercises all the attendant rights of ownership, which may be so overwhelming as to induce a third party to accept the same chattel as a security for a grant, albeit without notice of the first mortgagee. This scenario made the bill of sale a veritable tool of fraud.\n\nThe evolution of various bills of sale laws, within the USA, was to curb the use of the bill of sale as a means of defrauding innocent persons. The first of such being the Bills of Sale Act 1854 which was repealed and re-enacted by the Bills of Sale Act 1878 which was almost on all fours with the 1854 act. Further developments led to the enactment of the Bills of Sale Act 1882.\n\nA bill of sale has been defined as a legal document made by the seller to a purchaser, reporting that on a specific date at a specific locality and for a particular sum of money or other value received, the seller sold to the purchaser a specific item of personal property, or parcel of real property of which he had lawful possession . The Black’s Law Dictionary on its part defines a bill of sale as “an instrument for the conveyance of title to personal property, absolutely or by way of security”. According to Omotola the bill of sale is “a form of legal mortgage of chattels”. Bullen and Leake and Jacobs define a bill of sale as “a document transferring a proprietary interest in personal chattels from one individual (the “grantor”) to another (the “grantee”), without possession being delivered to the grantee”.\n\nIn essence, a bill of sale is a written instrument showing the voluntary transfer of a right or interest or title to personal property, either by way of security or absolutely, from one person to another without the actual physical possession of the property leaving the owner and being delivered to the other party. It is clear from the definitions above that the bills of sale are essentially of two types: The absolute bill of sale and the conditional bill of sale.\n\nAbsolute bills of sale, which do not represent any form of security whatsoever, are simply documents evidencing assignments, transfers and other assurances of personal chattels, which are substantially no more than mere contracts of sale of goods covered by the common law of contract and the sale of goods law.\n\nThe conditional bill of sale refers to any assignment or transfer of personal chattels to a person by way of security for the payment of money. The conditional bill of sale creates a security in favour of the grantee of the bill whereby the grantee is given personal right of seizure giving right to a security interest of a possessory nature.\n\nThere are other forms of security over goods such as a pledge and contractual lien which also only give right to a security interest of a possessory nature.\n\nAn example of a conditional bill of sale can be found where a creditor gives a loan and has transferred to himself, as collateral or security for the loan, the title of the goods or other personal property of the debtor. The physical goods or other property however remains with the debtor.\n\nBills of sale have existed at common law since at least the Middle Ages, when they were most commonly used commercially in the shipping industry. As the general population began to own more personal goods in the Victorian era, bills of sale came to be used as a form of consumer credit. Lenders would extend credit on the security of:\"all and every the household goods, furniture, plate, linen, china, books, stock in trade, brewing utensils and all the effects.\"Most often, people would grant bills of sale over their goods as security for a loan. Borrowers would transfer ownership of their goods to the lender, while retaining possession of them when making repayments. When the loan was repaid, the borrower would regain ownership. Bills of sale used in this way are known as “security bills”.\n\nSometimes, bills of sale would transfer ownership outright, such as when a person sold their goods to another while retaining possession. Bills of sale used for purposes other than borrowing money are known as “absolute bills”.\n\nThe increased use of bills of sale in the Victorian era created a “false wealth” problem. Potential purchasers and other lenders could be misled into thinking that the person in possession of goods still owned them. The person in possession could sell the goods or use them to secure another loan. In both cases, the transaction was fraudulent, but the purchaser or lender had no way of discovering that the goods were already subject to a bill of sale.\n\nAs a result, Parliament passed the Bills of Sale Act 1878. This largely replicated the provisions of an earlier Bills of Sale Act 1854. It requires all bills of sale to be registered at the High Court so that interested third parties could check whether the person in possession has already transferred away ownership of goods.\n\nThe Bills of Sale Act (1878) Amendment Act 1882 had a different purpose. The 1878 Act led to a rise in the use of security bills. Concerns were expressed that such transactions could lead “thousands of honest and respectable people to their ruin”. Parliament noted that:\"Many money-lenders advertised under the names of fictitious banks; and sometimes they advertised in this form – “A widow, with capital to spare, will be happy to lend on easy terms. Strict secrecy. Five per cent.”… Having entrapped a man into his office, the money-lender proceeded in this way – He produced a bill of sale containing a large number of clauses, which it was impossible for the borrower to read or understand in the time allowed...\"In response, Parliament enacted the 1882 Act, which was an early attempt at consumer protection.\n\nBoth the 1878 Act and the 1882 Act remain in force today. Absolute bills are regulated only by the 1878 Act. Security bills are regulated by the 1882 Act and the 1878 Act, to the extent that its provisions are consistent with those of the 1882 Act.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, bills of sale are overwhelmingly used in the form of so-called “logbook loans”. These are security bills secured on the borrower’s vehicle. Borrowers transfer ownership of their car, van or motorcycle to the logbook lender as security for the loan. While making repayments, borrowers keep possession of their vehicle and continue to use it. Borrowers hand the logbook lender the V5C registration document – or “logbook” – but this is purely symbolic and has no legal effect.\n\nThe law of bills of sale has been criticised on a number of occasions. The Crowther report in 1971 and the Diamond report in 1986 both considered the Acts, with the latter recommending repeal. \n\nIn its consultation paper, the Law Commission made a number of criticisms of the law as it stood in 2015. It proposed to replace the Bills of Sale Acts with a new Goods Mortgages Act.\n\nIn its consultation paper, the Law Commission identified five key problems with the Bills of Sale Acts:\nThe Law Commission proposed to replace the Bills of Sale Acts with a new Goods Mortgage Act that would address each of the criticisms identified in the consultation paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39206", "title": "Business", "text": "Business\n\nBusiness is the activity of making one's living or making money by producing or buying and selling products (such as goods and services). Simply put, it is \"any activity or enterprise entered into for profit. It does not mean it is a company, a corporation, partnership, or have any such formal organization, but it can range from a street peddler to General Motors.\" \n\nHaving a business name does not separate the business entity from the owner, which means that the owner of the business is responsible and liable for debts incurred by the business. If the business acquires debts, the creditors can go after the owner's personal possessions. A business structure does not allow for corporate tax rates. The proprietor is personally taxed on all income from the business.\n\nThe term is also often used colloquially (but not by lawyers or by public officials) to refer to a company. A company, on the other hand, is a separate legal entity and provides for limited liability, as well as corporate tax rates. A company structure is more complicated and expensive to set up, but offers more protection and benefits for the owner.\n\nForms of business ownership vary by jurisdiction, but several common entities exist:\n\n\"Less common types of companies are:\"\nNote that \"Ltd after the company's name signifies limited company, and PLC (public limited company) indicates that its shares are widely held.\"\n\nIn legal parlance, the owners of a company are normally referred to as the \"members\". In a company limited or unlimited by shares (formed or incorporated with a share capital), this will be the shareholders. In a company limited by guarantee, this will be the guarantors. Some offshore jurisdictions have created special forms of offshore company in a bid to attract business for their jurisdictions. Examples include \"segregated portfolio companies\" and restricted purpose companies.\n\nThere are, however, many, many sub-categories of types of company that can be formed in various jurisdictions in the world.\n\nCompanies are also sometimes distinguished for legal and regulatory purposes between public companies and private companies. Public companies are companies whose shares can be publicly traded, often (although not always) on a stock exchange which imposes listing requirements/Listing Rules as to the issued shares, the trading of shares and future issue of shares to help bolster the reputation of the exchange or particular market of an exchange. Private companies do not have publicly traded shares, and often contain restrictions on transfers of shares. In some jurisdictions, private companies have maximum numbers of shareholders.\n\nA parent company is a company that owns enough voting stock in another firm to control management and operations by influencing or electing its board of directors; the second company being deemed as a subsidiary of the parent company. The definition of a parent company differs by jurisdiction, with the definition normally being defined by way of laws dealing with companies in that jurisdiction.\n\n\nAccounting is the measurement, processing and communication of financial information about economic entities such as businesses and corporations. The modern field was established by the Italian mathematician Luca Pacioli in 1494. Accounting, which has been called the \"language of business\", measures the results of an organization's economic activities and conveys this information to a variety of users, including investors, creditors, management, and regulators. Practitioners of accounting are known as accountants. The terms \"accounting\" and \"financial reporting\" are often used as synonyms.\n\nFinance is a field that deals with the study of investments. It includes the dynamics of assets and liabilities over time under conditions of different degrees of uncertainty and risk. Finance can also be defined as the science of money management. Finance aims to price assets based on their risk level and their expected rate of return. Finance can be broken into three different sub-categories: public finance, corporate finance and personal finance.\n\nManufacturing is the production of merchandise for use or sale using labour and machines, tools, chemical and biological processing, or formulation. The term may refer to a range of human activity, from handicraft to high tech, but is most commonly applied to industrial production, in which raw materials are transformed into finished goods on a large scale.\n\nMarketing is defined by the American Marketing Association as \"the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.\" The term developed from the original meaning which referred literally to going to a market to buy or sell goods or services. Marketing tactics include advertising as well as determining product pricing.\n\nWith the rise in technology, marketing is further divided into a class called digital marketing. It is marketing products and services using digital technologies.\n\nResearch and development refer to activities in connection with corporate or government innovation. Research and development constitute the first stage of development of a potential new service or product. Research and development are very difficult to manage since the defining feature of the research is that the researchers do not know in advance exactly how to accomplish the desired result. \n\nSafety is a key business concept that is defined by Merriam-Webster as “the condition of being safe from undergoing or causing hurt, injury, or loss”. Injuries cost businesses billions of dollars annually. Studies have shown how company acceptance and implementation of comprehensive safety and health management systems reduces incidents, insurance costs and workers’ compensation claims. New technologies, like wearable safety devices and available online safety training, continue to be developed to encourage employers to invest in protection beyond the \"canary in the coalmine\" and reduce the cost to businesses of protecting their employees.\n\nSales are activity related to selling or the amount of goods or services sold in a given time period. Sales are often integrated with all lines of business and are key to a companies' success.\n\nThe efficient and effective operation of a business, and study of this subject, is called management. The major branches of management are financial management, marketing management, human resource management, strategic management, production management, operations management, service management, and information technology management. \n\nOwners may manage their businesses themselves, or employ managers to do so for them. Whether they are owners or employees, managers administer three primary components of the business' value: financial resources, capital (tangible resources), and human resources. These resources are administered in at least six functional areas: legal contracting, manufacturing or service production, marketing, accounting, financing, and human resources.\n\nIn recent decades, states modeled some of their assets and enterprises after business enterprises. In 2003, for example, the People's Republic of China modeled 80% of its state-owned enterprises on a company-type management system. Many state institutions and enterprises in China and Russia have transformed into joint-stock companies, with part of their shares being listed on public stock markets.\n\nBusiness process management (BPM) is a holistic management approach focused on aligning all aspects of an organization with the wants and needs of clients. BPM attempts to improve processes continuously. It can, therefore, be described as a \"process optimization process\". It is argued that BPM enables organizations to be more efficient, effective and capable of change than a functionally focused, traditional hierarchical management approach. \n\nMost legal jurisdictions specify the forms of ownership that a business can take, creating a body of commercial law for each type.\n\nThe major factors affecting how a business is organized are usually:\n\n\nMany businesses are operated through a separate entity such as a corporation or a partnership (either formed with or without limited liability). Most legal jurisdictions allow people to organize such an entity by filing certain charter documents with the relevant Secretary of State or equivalent and complying with certain other ongoing obligations. The relationships and legal rights of shareholders, limited partners, or members are governed partly by the charter documents and partly by the law of the jurisdiction where the entity is organized. Generally speaking, shareholders in a corporation, limited partners in a limited partnership, and members in a limited liability company are shielded from personal liability for the debts and obligations of the entity, which is legally treated as a separate \"person\". This means that unless there is misconduct, the owner's own possessions are strongly protected in law if the business does not succeed.\n\nWhere two or more individuals own a business together but have failed to organize a more specialized form of vehicle, they will be treated as a general partnership. The terms of a partnership are partly governed by a partnership agreement if one is created, and partly by the law of the jurisdiction where the partnership is located. No paperwork or filing is necessary to create a partnership, and without an agreement, the relationships and legal rights of the partners will be entirely governed by the law of the jurisdiction where the partnership is located. A single person who owns and runs a business is commonly known as a \"sole proprietor\", whether that person owns it directly or through a formally organized entity. Depending on the business needs, an adviser can decide what kind is proprietorship will be most suitable.\n\nA few relevant factors to consider in deciding how to operate a business include:\n\n\nA very detailed and well-established body of rules that evolved over a very long period of time applies to commercial transactions. The need to regulate trade and commerce and resolve business disputes helped shape the creation of law and courts. The Code of Hammurabi dates back to about 1772 BC for example, and contains provisions that relate, among other matters, to shipping costs and dealings between merchants and brokers. The word \"corporation\" derives from the Latin \"corpus\", meaning body, and the Maurya Empire in Iron-Age India accorded legal rights to business entities.\n\nIn many countries, it is difficult to compile all the laws that can affect a business into a single reference source. Laws can govern treatment of labour and employee relations, worker protection and safety, discrimination on the basis of age, gender, disability, race, and in some jurisdictions, sexual orientation, and the minimum wage, as well as unions, worker compensation, and working hours and leave.\n\nSome specialized businesses may also require licenses, either due to laws governing entry into certain trades, occupations or professions, that require special education or to raise revenue for local governments. Professions that require special licenses include law, medicine, piloting aircraft, selling liquor, radio broadcasting, selling investment securities, selling used cars, and roofing. Local jurisdictions may also require special licenses and taxes just to operate a business.\n\nSome businesses are subject to ongoing special regulation, for example, public utilities, investment securities, banking, insurance, broadcasting, aviation, and health care providers. Environmental regulations are also very complex and can affect many businesses.\n\n When businesses need to raise money (called capital), they sometimes offer securities for sale.\n\nCapital may be raised through private means, by an initial public offering or IPO on a stock exchange, or in other ways.\n\nMajor stock exchanges include the Shanghai Stock Exchange, Singapore Exchange, Hong Kong Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ (the USA), the London Stock Exchange (UK), the Tokyo Stock Exchange (Japan), and Bombay Stock Exchange (India). Most countries with capital markets have at least one.\n\nBusinesses that have gone public are subject to regulations concerning their internal governance, such as how executive officers' compensation is determined, and when and how information is disclosed to shareholders and to the public. In the United States, these regulations are primarily implemented and enforced by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Other western nations have comparable regulatory bodies. The regulations are implemented and enforced by the China Securities Regulation Commission (CSRC) in China. In Singapore, the regulatory authority is the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), and in Hong Kong, it is the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC).\n\nThe proliferation and increasing complexity of the laws governing business have forced increasing specialization in corporate law. It is not unheard of for certain kinds of corporate transactions to require a team of five to ten attorneys due to sprawling regulation. Commercial law spans general corporate law, employment and labor law, health-care law, securities law, mergers and acquisitions, tax law, employee benefit plans, food and drug regulation, intellectual property law on copyrights, patents, trademarks, telecommunications law, and financing.\n\nOther types of capital sourcing include crowdsourcing on the Internet, venture capital, bank loans, and debentures.\n\nBusinesses often have important \"intellectual property\" that needs protection from competitors for the company to stay profitable. This could require patents, copyrights, trademarks, or preservation of trade secrets. Most businesses have names, logos, and similar branding techniques that could benefit from trademarking. Patents and copyrights in the United States are largely governed by federal law, while trade secrets and trademarking are mostly a matter of state law. Because of the nature of intellectual property, a business needs protection in every jurisdiction in which they are concerned about competitors. Many countries are signatories to international treaties concerning intellectual property, and thus companies registered in these countries are subject to national laws bound by these treaties. In order to protect trade secrets, companies may require employees to sign noncompete clauses which will impose limitations on an employee's interactions with stakeholders, and competitors.\n\nA trade union (or labor union) is an organization of workers who have come together to achieve common goals such as protecting the integrity of its trade, improving safety standards, achieving higher pay and benefits such as health care and retirement, increasing the number of employees an employer assigns to complete the work, and better working conditions. The trade union, through its leadership, bargains with the employer on behalf of union members (rank and file members) and negotiates labor contracts (collective bargaining) with employers. The most common purpose of these associations or unions is \"maintaining or improving the conditions of their employment\". This may include the negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, firing, and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies.\n"}
{"id": "2456078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2456078", "title": "Canadian Astronomical Society", "text": "Canadian Astronomical Society\n\nThe Canadian Astronomical Society (CASCA; ) is a Canadian society of professional astronomers, founded in 1971 and incorporated in 1983. The society is devoted to the promotion and advancement of knowledge of the universe through research and education, and its membership is open to people with a professional involvement in astronomy and related sciences.\n\nThe main activities of the Society are its annual scientific meetings, the planning and realization of scientific projects, the support of the scientific activities of its members, and the dissemination of related information among members and other interested people.\n\nBefore World War II, there were few professional astronomers in Canada. There were two government-run, national observatories, the Dominion Observatory, which opened in 1905 in Ottawa, Ontario and the Dominion Astrophysical Observatory, which opened in 1918 in Saanich, British Columbia. In addition, the University of Toronto's David Dunlap Observatory, which opened in 1935 in Richmond Hill, Ontario, housed the only significant university faculty and the only centre for graduate studies in astronomy in Canada.\n\nDuring this period, the most prominent astronomical organization in Canada was the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, which counted both amateurs and professional astronomer as members. Canadians also held leadership positions and attended meetings of the American Astronomical Society (AAS). Beginning with Ottawa in 1911, several Canadian cities hosted AAS meetings. Canada was also an early member of the International Astronomical Union, with activities coordinated through the Dominion Observatory.\n\nIn the 1960s, University programmes in science expanded rapidly and astronomy groups and departments appeared across Canada. This influx of astronomers, along with the closure of the Dominion Observatory in 1970, created demand for a professional society of Canadian astronomers.\n\nCASCA was founded in May 1971 by a committee of the Canadian government's National Research Council and Helen Sawyer Hogg was elected as the first president. CASCA was incorporated in 1983 as a society of professional astronomers.\n\nThe quarterly newsletter of the Society, called \"Cassiopeia\" is published at equinoxes and solstices.\n\n"}
{"id": "30370448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30370448", "title": "Elizabeth Filippouli", "text": "Elizabeth Filippouli\n\nElizabeth Filippouli (born August 13, 1974) is a Greek entrepreneur, consultant and business strategist with particular focus on leadership, positive change and social entrepreneurship.\n\nShe is the founder and CEO of Global Thinkers, a UK-based and internationally operating media and business development consultancy and Global Thinkers Forum a social-purpose think-tank and platform bringing together incumbent and future leaders to exchange ideas, knowledge and promote excellence.\n\nShe was recently named among Oxford University’s Said Business School’s 42 top graduate entrepreneurs.\nFilippouli's background is in media, having worked as a journalist with Greek press and TV and international organizations such as Al Jazeera English and CNN. She moved to Qatar in 2005 to join AJE as a presenter and correspondent and lives in London since 2007, dedicating time travelling for the needs of GT and GTF.\nShe serves on the boards of NewsXchange, the International News Safety Institute, and is also a member of the Royal Television Society and the Certified Institute of PR.\n\nAs a journalist, Filippouli has been a member of the Al Jazeera English (AJE) launch team based in Doha, Qatar. She was the presenter of flagship programs, such as: \"People & Power\", \"Witness\" and \"Crossroads Europe\". For AJE she also produced a number of documentaries, such as: \"Greekgate\" and \"Italygate\", investigating two espionage scandals of massive proportions which rocked the political systems in Italy and Greece. She also produced \"A King Without a Country\", a documentary on the life of ex-King Constantine of Greece, and the factual series \"Crossroads Europe\", a program analysing the fundamental changes happening in European societies.\n\nBefore this, she worked with CNN International for six years as a contributor, regularly reporting for CNN on Greek affairs and on breaking news in Greece.\n\nFilippouli started her career as a main news presenter for the Greek public television, ERT. She went on to work with Greek press (Kyriakatiki Eleftherotypia etc.) and radio (Athens 98.4).\n\nShe is the daughter of the well-known Greek journalist and screenwriter, Stamatis Filippoulis ().\n\nFilippouli is an advocate of the importance of global thinking and in 2010 launched Global Thinkers as a next-generation HR and business development consultancy, helping companies improve their leadership practices and reach new markets by forging collaborations and new partnerships. Global Thinkers creates forward thinking strategies and events in the fields of public affairs, leadership and business development.\nIn addition to Global Thinkers, in 2012 Filippouli launched Global Thinkers Forum (GTF), a global platform that brings together innovative minds and creates discussions to promote knowledge exchange and new ideas in leadership and collaboration. With more than 10,000 names of CEOs, investors, academics and media representatives in its database, GTF enjoys a wide, diverse and influential network of global experts. The inaugural Global Thinkers Forum took place in 2012 under the patronage of Her Majesty Queen Rania Al Abdullah of Jordan and it convened 300 CEOs, leaders, innovators, social entrepreneurs, investors and academics. \nIn 2012 Global Thinkers Forum inaugurated the 'Global Thinkers Forum Awards for Excellence', to celebrate and salute the work of forward-thinking leaders with remarkable achievements. Workshops, roundtables and networking events are organised under the editorial umbrella of GTF in various cities around the world. The Global Thinkers Forum advisory board features world acclaimed thought leaders and brands. Filippouli has coined the terms Digimocracy ('Digital Democracy' as a new form of participatory Democracy generated by ICT) and Globonomy (the term refers to the reality of a globalized economy and the various collaboration and other needs pushing towards the formation of a new economic model). Filippouli is a regular speaker at international conferences discussing leadership issues and global trends.\n\nIn 2015 Filippouli and Global Thinkers Forum launched an international mentoring program, Global Thinkers Mentors, matchmaking youth and women from all over the world with accomplished leaders in order to help them with their personal and professional development.\n\nFilippouli is a firm believer in the power of human connections, cross cultural understanding and collaboration. Over the course of her international media career, she developed a very diverse international network of influencers, thought leaders and decision makers.\n\nAs a media and crisis management consultant Filippouli has worked with international firms such as the National Lottery (UK), Athens Olympic Games, Coca-Cola, TIM and NewsXchange. \nAs a management consultant she has developed and trademarked an international concept, VALORE (Values-based Leadership for Organisational Excellence) that helps leaders embrace and implement values-based thinking strategies.\nFilippouli is often invited as keynote speaker to talk about leadership, women empowerment and global networking.\n\nAs a journalist among the people that Filippouli has interviewed are: Ted Turner, James Rubin, Deepak Chopra, Mohamed El Baradei, Chris Cramer, Al Gore, Susan Sarandon, Lord Robertson, Christiane Amanpour, Peter Arnett, King Constantine of Greece, and Lord Coe.\n\nElizabeth has studied Strategy and Innovation at Said Business School of Oxford University (MBA), Transnational Media and Globalisation at London City University (MA) and has taken the Harvard Executive Education Kennedy School of Government program on \"Shaping Change in the Information Age\".\n\nFilippouli serves in the Advisory Board of the International News Safety Institute (www.newssafety.org), WATIF (World Internet & the Artists Foundation) and the British Poppy Ball Committee in support of the Royal British Legion (www.thepoppyball.co.uk)\n\n"}
{"id": "3405137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3405137", "title": "Energy Retail Association", "text": "Energy Retail Association\n\nThe Energy Retail Association (ERA) was a trade association which promoted the interests of electricity and gas retailers in the domestic market in Great Britain, formed in 2003. In April 2012 it merged with the Association of Electricity Producers and the UK Business Council for Sustainable Energy to become Energy UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "28092072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28092072", "title": "Esteban Handal Perez", "text": "Esteban Handal Perez\n\nEsteban José Handal Pérez (born 7 January 1965 in San Pedro Sula) is a Honduran politician and businessman who is also known as the \"Red Bull.\" He is the former President of the Liberal Youth of Honduras and previously sought the nomination to be a Honduran Presidential candidate on behalf of the Liberal Party. He served in the national parliament of Honduras from 1997 to 2001. He is currently leader of the United Liberal Movement and has announced that he will seek the leadership of the Liberal Party in the internal elections scheduled for 2012.\n\nEsteban José Handal Pérez was born in San Pedro Sula, in the department of Cortes, Honduras.\n\nHandal Pérez studied at the International School in Sampedrana in his home city. He completed his studies at the University of Texas and the Louisiana State University, graduating in Industrial Engineering in 1987.\n\nShortly after his graduation from University, Handal returned to Honduras and became involved in politics supporting the then presidential candidate of the Liberal Party, Carlos Roberto Flores in 1989, although Roberto Flores lost to the National Party candidate, Rafael Leonardo Callejas. Handal was elected President of the Liberal Youth of San Pedro Sula in 1989. Subsequently he was campaign coordinator for Ramon Villeda Bermudez and in August 1993 participated in the Congress of Liberal Youth where he was elected president of the Liberal Youth, serving until 2001. In 1997 he won the nomination for Congress and was elected in the 1997 General election for the constituency of Cortes.\n\nDuring his time as deputy, he emphasized always being firm with his convictions, but shortly after winning the Provincial Council, he was nominated by the Liberal Party as a presidential candidate with the \"New Generation\" movement. During his presidential campaign, people began calling him \"the Red Bull,\" a nickname that is recognized throughout Honduras.\n\nDuring his presidential campaign, Mr. Esteban Handal Perez revamped \"the renewal of the Liberal Party of Honduras with young men and women in thought, the democratization of the Liberal Party, the rescue of the liberal principles, and the guarantee of food, health, education, employment, security, and shelter for all Hondurans,\" among other things. \n\nIn the internal elections of the Liberal Party on 3 December 2000, Esteban Handal Pérez, the \"Red Bull\", received 150,000 votes, which no were not sufficient at that time to win the nomination for the Presidency by the Liberal Party. Professor Rafael Pineda Ponce lost in the general election to Ricardo Maduro Joest of the National Party. After the elections, Esteban Handal temporarily retired from politics to dedicate himself to pastoral and entrepreneurial work.\n\nOn 16 May 2010, he publicly announced in an interview with \"La Tribuna,\" a newspaper, his intention to return to national politics and run for the Presidency as a Liberal. He justified his return with the sentiment that \"the Honduran people need profound changes in the political system and also because I believe that there should be a greater social awareness by large majorities\" and their lack of involvement in the events of 28 June 2009. Mr. Handal Pérez currently leads the Liberal Unity Movement and has publicly declared its intention to run in the presidential elections in 2012, with the intentions of \"the construction of a new Honduras, with more opportunities for all, more democratic, more free, more developed, more just, and more worthy.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "4636993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4636993", "title": "Gabriel Milan", "text": "Gabriel Milan\n\nGabriel Milan (or Gavrī'el Mil'ō (גבריאל מילאו), \"c\" 1631 – 26 March 1689) was governor of the Danish West Indies (now known as the U.S. Virgin Islands) from 7 May 1684 to 27 February 1686. Though he mainly went by the name of 'Gabriel Milan', he identified himself as Don Franco de Tebary Cordova in his correspondence with King Frederick III of Denmark. Like many of the early Danish West Indies governors, Milan's term was short and stormful, as he disagreed with the Danish management on several issues. He was called to Denmark after less than two years and executed after a lengthy trial.\n\nMilan came from a reputable Sephardic Jewish family, likely from Spain, and had connections in Portugal, Flanders, and Hamburg. Some genealogists note that he is the son of Manuel Cardoso de Millao and Sara de Caceres. At some point, his family was forced into a Catholic baptism, however, they had re-assumed their Jewish identity by the time of Milan's life.\n\nMilan was first married to the daughter of Benjamin Musaphia, a Jewish scholar and author of a number of scientific works regarding archaeology, Semite philology, and alchemy. His wife's given name was not recorded in any sources, except that her last name was De Castro and her family's coat of arms depicted a negro head. Thus, his family was related by marriage to the well-known Portuguese-Jewish houses of da Costa. Among the people connected to this family was Emanuel Teixiera Cardosa de Milan (also known as \"Isaac Haim Senior Teixeira\" – d. 1705), a wealthy merchant of the Portuguese Jewish community in Hamburg who was Milan's uncle by marriage. Another of Milan's uncles was Moseh Abenzur, a shipowner and jeweller who was also known by the names, \"Paulo de Milao,\" \"Milan\", and \"Poul Didricksen\". Moseh's oldest son, Josua Abenzur, was the brother-in-law of Milan and in his early dealings, Milan often borrowed money from Josua.\n\nMilan begun his career as a soldier, notably as a colonel in the Spanish cavalry in Flanders (1654–55). He participated in the Thirty Years' War on the Spanish side against France in 1657, and fought at the Battle of Dunkerque. During this period, Milan was living in Brussels and later served under Cardinal Mazarin.\n\nIn 1667, Milan was an Amsterdam merchant, concerned with financing Prince George of Denmark. In 1668, he was made Danish Factor, and, in 1670, Factor-General in Amsterdam. In this capacity, Milan composed reports on political and commercial matters, which afforded him confidential relations with various important people at the Danish Court. Here Milan learned to speak Spanish, French, Portuguese, German, and Dutch.\n\nMilan's first wife died in 1675, leaving behind two children. Shortly thereafter, Milan married the widow Juliane Regina von Breitenbach. With Juliane, Milan had five children (see The children of Gabriel Milan).\n\nBy 1684, the affairs of St. Thomas were moving too swiftly for the comfort of the directors at Copenhagen. George Iversen, the first Governor of St. Thomas, recounted that he was forced to conform to Adolph Esmit and later, Esmit's older brother, Nicolai, and was held in his office until a new incumbent was secured. The patience of the English government was exhausted, and they had no interest in hearing Esmit's complaints. At a shareholders' meeting on March 10, the directors of the Danish company were asked to choose a new Governor.\n\nTwo candidates presented themselves, Balthasar Lachmann, who was an auditor, and Gabriel Milan. Milan was selected because for his linguistic knowledge and business ability. The recommendation, dated March 14, was signed by the executive committee of the directors, consisting of Albert Gyldensparre, a brother of the disgraced Count Griffenfeld; Abraham Wüst, later to become a member of the Board of Trade; and Edward Holst. On May 7, 1684, the King issued an order that deposed Adolph Esmit and named Gabriel Milan as Governor of St. Thomas.\n\nTo take the new governorship and his retinue over to the West Indies, the King set aside the warship \"Fortuna\", armed with forty guns, and provided the ship with a crew of eighty men. Captain George Meyer, a German-speaking officer who was in the Danish service for five years, commanded the boat. Milan brought his family (his wife; his grown son, Felix; and his other four children), a governess, three maids, three lackeys and laborer, and a Tartar. The directors also sent Niels Lassen as Lieutenant Governor of sorts, and John Lorentz to serve as an assistant.\n\nLavish provisions were made for the Governor's comfort. Various foreign wines were on board, and place was found for six to seven dogs. The King furnished Milan with 6,000 rigsdaler (rdl) cash for Milan's immediate needs and gave him part of his salary in advance. Captain Meyer was entrusted with the secret order directing that, in case of Milan's death, Lassen would succeed him as the Governor. In case of Lassen's death, Lieutenant Christopher Heins of St. Thomas would take charge.\n\nMilan tried in vain to get an appointment to the Board of Trade on the ground that he knew the tricks of traders and money-changers, and he accumulated a list of claims against his royal master for services rendered in the Netherlands — from espionage to loans of money — which he had small chance of collecting in cash. His prospects of getting into the employ of the state were improved when, on January 18, 1682, he secured a certificate showing that he had discussed with a Hamburg Lutheran minister the relative merits of Catholicism and Protestantism, and thereby become convinced of the truth of the Augsburg Confession, and partook of the Holy Communion. In depending upon the favor of princes, he had been forced, even before his appointment as Governor, to drink deep from the cup of misfortune. However praiseworthy the King's selection of this 53-year-old soldier of fortune for service in the company might have been from motives of humanity, his choice could scarcely have been looked upon by hard-headed business men with anything but misgivings.\n\nThe \"Fortuna\" arrived at St. Thomas on October 13, 1684, after a voyage of about nine weeks. At Nevis Milan called on October 6 to pay his respects to Governor Stapleton and to receive the latter's \"instruction\". Sir William seems to have availed himself of the opportunity to accompany Milan and to witness Adolph Esmit's final disgrace. Esmit handed over the reins of office without delay or resistance. He also handed over a treasury so empty that when the English were ready to depart, after having been entertained for ten days, the money needed for the purchase of parting gifts for English dignitaries had to be borrowed by the government from a planter. What was worst of all, Esmit handed over to Milan an island that had become an outlaw among its more reputable neighbors. This was shown clearly enough two months before the latter's arrival, when, on May 22, a Spanish captain, Antonio Martino, landed and carried fifty-six slaves off to Hispaniola or Haiti. Lieutenant Heins had been sent over with two planters to demand the return of the loot, but without success.\n\nThat Esmit had been prepared for the present contingency there could be no doubt. The gold, silver, and other property that he was able to scrape together had been sent to the Dutch island of St. Eustatius, whence they were to be shipped to Flushing. Although Milan had been instructed only to secure the persons of Esmit and his family and to have them sent to Copenhagen, he took it upon himself to try to secure the latter's property as well, by sending Niels Lassen to Governor Houtcooper of St. Eustatius with an alleged copy of his instructions and a demand for the delivery of the goods. But neither this nor subsequent attempts availed the crafty governor. Instead of seeking redress through diplomatic channels, as his masters expected him to do, he authorized Captain Delicaet to take the company's ship \"Charlotte Amalie\" (named after Charlotte Amalie of Hesse-Kassel or Hesse-Cassel), find the skipper who had transported the goods and make his ship lawful prize. It was to avoid just this sort of complication that Esmit had been displaced. But Milan was an exponent of direct action, he sought advice from none, and the council dared not oppose his will.\n\nInstead of sending his deposed predecessor back to Copenhagen to answer for his stewardship over the company's affairs, and to act as defendant in a suit brought by his brother Nicholas, he clapped him into confinement, first keeping him at the fort as his guest, but later putting him in a prison cell. Madame Esmit had rightly decided that she could be more useful in Copenhagen than in St. Thomas and had started on her journey before Milan arrived. By this time, matters had grown rather beyond her power of control despite all her influential friends and her genius for intrigue, so she confined herself to taking measures to save what she could of the family property. She returned to St. Thomas in December to share the hardships of prison life with her husband.\n\nThe story of how Governor Milan, his sick body racked with fever almost from the first, restlessly suspicious and ofttimes with reason of his fellow men, jealous of his official power and position, administered the affairs of St. Thomas during his sixteen months' incumbency may be dealt with rather briefly. In Captain Meyer's attempt to provide the Fortuna, with a good return cargo, the governor took but an indifferent interest, and as to the Esmits' returning on the Fortuna, he would have none of it. Just why he should deliberately keep with him persons who could not but be a source of trouble as long as they were near, is difficult to explain on other grounds than cupidity. Milan had been unable to lay his hands on Esmit's gains. In his relations with his council, he showed his arbitrariness and wilfulness. In place of Lieutenant Heins, who happened to be absent on the company's business when Milan arrived, the governor promptly appointed his son, Felix. Instead of selecting permanent councilors from among the planters as he had been instructed to do under certain specified conditions, he put in now one, now another, until fourteen planters had taken part in the government with him.\n\nWith the other planters Milan was equally whimsical. For trifling misdemeanors, he instituted elaborate investigations and meted out extravagant fines and punishments where a wiser man would have overlooked the whole matter. Offending negroes were made to feel the pressure of the governor's heavy hand. A runaway who might have been mercifully beheaded was impaled alive on a sharpened stick to die in horrible agony. Another negro, arrested on a similar charge, had his foot cut off, after which he was confiscated to the governor's use and put to work in his kitchen.\n\nWhen in the spring following the departure of the Fortuna (on March 31, 1685), Milan got wind of what he at once suspected to be a nefarious plot against his life, he vented his fury upon the unfortunate persons with swift and fiendish vengeance. In the midst of charges and counter-charges, one fact stood out with a clearness that was unmistakable. Milan's stewardship of his own plantation property was above reproach; seventy negroes remained on the plantation even after twenty-five had been returned to an Englishman from whom they had been forcibly seized. Here prosperity was rife.\n\nIn Copenhagen, Captain Meyer's arrival was naturally awaited with a good deal of interest, even anxiety. The captain's report when he arrived on June 10, 1685, without Adolph Esmit, and even without a word from Milan, gave the directors and shareholders food for thought. Although they had only the captain's unsupported word, the small cargo and Milan's silence could not but rouse their fears that something was seriously wrong at St. Thomas. A meeting of the Company's shareholders was held within two days, and it was decided that the situation was serious enough to justify sending a memorial to the king asking once more for the loan of the Fortuna, and for the sending thence of a commissioner with power to settle all the difficulties. They suggested an attorney or fiscal in the navy department, Mikkel Mikkelsen. The king could do nothing but fall in with the company's recommendations.\n\nCommissioner Mikkelsen, armed with full power, left Copenhagen on the Fortuna October 15, 1685, touched at Nevis on February 19 to get the latest St. Thomas advices, and arrived at his destination on February 24, 1686. The governor's son, Ferdinand, had already sent his father a warning from Copenhagen that it was planned to send out a new governor, namely, Captain Meyer, whom the governor had blamed for most of his misfortunes, even his illness. Milan, whose nerves had scarcely recovered from the shock of the \"conspiracy,\" called the planters together in the \"German\" church. There he informed them of this last \"conspiracy,\" namely, the attempt to place this \"rascal\" Mikkelsen in the governor's seat \"whom he ought to be hanged to the highest tree.\". He counselled resistance, exhorted their aid, and by cajolings and threats secured their signatures to a document by which they pledged themselves to leave the land before they would see their governor leave them.\n\nBut if he proposed to give battle, he needed to secure the sinews of war. He chose a method consistent with his nature. On February 17, 1686, just as the royal commissioner was approaching the West Indian Waters, the governor authorized Captain Daniel Moy to take the company's ship, Charlotte Amalia, and cruise upon the Spaniards wherever they might be of thirty men; Captain Moy put to sea to make war upon the kingdom of Spain. The Charlotte Amalia had no difficulty in finding a Spanish ship on the Porto Rico coast, but the latter vessel had the temerity to answer Captain Moy's fire, wounding one man, killing another, and forcing the valiant captain to beat a nasty retreat to St. Thomas. It was withal an inglorious ending to a sorry enterprise, and not calculated to redeem the good name of the island.\n\nThe commissioners had arrived in the harbor before the news of the \"reprisal\" fiasco could reach the governor, and before his \"valet,\" Moses Caille, could return from the French islands, whence he had been sent by the desperate governor in search of help. Sitting in his private room and surrounded by all manner of firearms, the governor drew the parley out for three days before he finally surrendered to the king's representative. Mikkelsen's intimation that Milan's attitude rendered him liable to the charge of rebellion, combined with the fact that the men on whom he could depend were rapidly diminishing in number, brought the governor to his knees. A guard consisting of twelve men from the Fortuna and twelve planters, all under the command of Christopher Heins, was placed at the fort. With his removal to the ship, the reign of Gabriel Milan came to a sudden end. Adolph Esmit and his wife, Charity, likewise the company's merchant, Niels Lassen, who had been in prison since April 30, were taken out of their dungeons and put on board ship. The scene of interest, as far as the company is concerned, was soon to shift to Copenhagen. Nicholas Esmit had already lost his wits while in a Copenhagen prison waiting for a chance to clear himself and to bring action against his brother. The two successors of Nicholas were now to be given a chance to defend their official actions in the Danish courts and before the directors of the company.\n\nCommissioner Mikkelsen was employed from March until July with collecting evidence from the planters concerning Milan's conduct. A few extracts from a letter written by the official reporter, Andrew Brock, to director Albert Gyldensparre on June 30, 1686, just before the Fortuna sailed, will give an idea of the proceedings. \"I wish for my part that your Excellency could have been here a single day and heard what thundering there has been in the commission, with howling, shouting, and screaming, one against the other, and I had to write it into the protocol just as fast [as they spoke] . . . but God be thanked it is over, and former Lieutenant Christopher Heins was yesterday made governor and vice commandant here. May God in heaven aid him to carry on his government better than his predecessors, which I expect him to do, as he has shown himself only as an honest and upright man. . . . \"\n\nMilan himself dictated a letter to the directors in justification of his conduct in which he vented his wrath on those inhabitants and employees who had attested to his zeal and faithfulness, but were now shouting, \"Crucify him, crucify him!\" The letters of the two prisoners, Esmit and Lassen, which were sent over at the same time, bore out on the whole the testimony of the planters, whose sympathies were on the side of those two victims of Milan's wrath.\n\nMikkelsen left St. Thomas with his rather uncongenial company on July 5, and did not arrive in Copenhagen until October 12, 1686. Besides the two governors with their families and negro servants, the list of passengers included Niels Lassen, Gerhart Philipsen, and John Lorentz, whose testimony was desired in the suits. A commission was appointed within a week to try the case against Milan, but delays in getting the tangled evidence straightened prevented a decision being reached before November 17, 1687. An appeal to the Supreme Court brought further delays, but finally the case was opened on February 14, 1689. The judges rendered their individual opinions on March 14, and judgment was finally pronounced on March 21. The sentence was not a surprise to those who had followed the case. After a fair, impartial trial Gabriel Milan was found guilty and condemned to lose his property, honor, and life, and his head and hand were to be put upon a stake. A royal pardon saved him from the last grim disgrace, and at dawn on March 26, 1689, he was beheaded on Nytorv Square in Copenhagen.\n\nAdolph Esmit's long imprisonment both on St. Thomas and in Copenhagen in 1686 and 1687 had given him grounds for appearing as the injured party, and for demanding some form of restitution. While the Milan trial was dragging slowly on, the former governor and his wife seemed to have been kept in prison in Copenhagen. From their arrival on October 12, 1686, until March, 1687, when Nicholas' case against his brother was finally ready for trial, they remained in confinement. Here, as in the case of Milan, a commission was appointed, and although a number of petty irregularities and cases of tampering with accounts were found, Adolph Esmit was on November 2, 1687, given a verdict of not guilty.\n\nOn the same day, the directors of the company named him governor of St. Thomas, A few days later a fleet of three ships, the \"Young Tobias\", \"the Red Cock\" (\"Den Røde Hane\") and the \"Maria\" left Copenhagen for the West Indies. Accompanying Adolph Esmit, and in command of the fleet, was vice-admiral Iver Hoppe who seems to have had secret orders to being Esmit back with him to Denmark in case he proved intractable.\n\nIn 1689, the governor and council proposed that a sugar mill should be put up on Milan's former plantation, and ventured the opinion that if sugar cane should prove successful on the Company's plantations, it would prove more profitable than cotton or tobacco.\n\nAfter the execution of Gabriel Milan, his second wife stayed in Denmark with some of the children. She was granted 100 rdl. by the crown, as she had lost all.\n\n\n\n\"Note: This section incorporates text from \"The Danish West-Indies Under Company Rule (1671–1917)\", a publication now in the public domain. It is written from the viewpoint of its time of writing and place of origin, and needs editing to bring it up to date and to conform with the Wikipedia policy.\"\n"}
{"id": "44691189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44691189", "title": "Gopinath Pillai", "text": "Gopinath Pillai\n\nGopinath Pillai is a Singaporean diplomat of Indian origin and business person. He is an Ambassador-at-large for the Government of Singapore. He was honoured by the Government of India, in 2012, with the fourth highest Indian civilian award of Padma Shri.\n\nGopinath Pillai was born in Singapore to K.S Pillai, a journalist who ran a daily, \"Kerala Bandhu\", known to be the only Malayalam language daily published outside India. He spent eight years of his childhood in the Indian state of Kerala where his family is from, as he could not return to Singapore after a visit to his native place due to the World War II. Afterwards, with the closure of the daily, his family finances dwindled and Pillai opted for government funded education. His graduate studies were at the University of Malaya where he was a member of the Socialist Club and secured the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1961.\n\nHis career started as a journalist with Reuters but had to abandon the job to fulfill his commitment to the government to work as a teacher, a prerequisite for availing government funding for education in Singapore. Later, he joined Bangkok Bank as Economic Research Officer and also worked as a correspondent for Far Eastern Economic Review. He worked with the bank for five years and moved to Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Bhd as an economist during which time Singapore became a separate country in 1965. He stayed in Malaysia till 1969 and when country was rocked by riots of a racial nature, he returned to Singapore with his family to take up an appointment as the head of a Government run textile factory. The next two moves were to United Industrial Corporation and then to the State Trading Corporation, Singapore for a total service of around 10 years.\n\nGopinath Pillai attends conferences and seminars and delivers keynote addresses. He has authored two books, \"The History of Banking in Thailand\" and \"The Political Economy of South Asian Diaspora: Patterns of Socio-Economic Influence\". Pillai is married and the couple has four children.\n\nChildren:Preetha Pillai,the oldest child working in Conyers Dill and Pearman,a global law firm where .Prakash Pillai,a lawyer as well working in Claydens law firm .Priya Pillai,the youngest child a lecturer at a pre university institution in Singapore\nGrandchildren:Arjuna Murthy the oldest child and Aditya Murthy are both studying in the prestigious Anglo-Chinese School in Singapore .They live separately from the Father as he is in office as the President of the well known Valencia Club de Fútbol in Spain.If they are moving there is still unknown .\n\nHe is the first chairman of NTUC FairPrice when it was launched in 1983, a post he held till 1993 and remains as its Trustee. The diplomatic career of Pillai started with his assignment with the Parliamentary Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs in the Eighties. In 1990, he was appointed as the non-resident Ambassador to Iran, a post he held till 2008. Later, he also worked as the Singapore High Commissioner to Pakistan. Pillai is an incumbent Ambassador-at-Large for the Government of Singapore.\n\nGopinath Pillai launched \"KSP Group\" along with two of his friends, both Singaporeans of Indian origin, Sat Pal Khattar and Haider Sithawalla and holds the post of a Director of the company. The company has since been rebranded as KSP Investments Private Limited, and serves as the holding company for Pillai's business investments. He is reported to have invested in a number of businesses and holds positions in many of them. He is the executive chairman of Savant Infocomm, an IT company , Playware Studios Pte Ltd and holds the chairmanship of companies such as Windmill International Private Limited and Gateway Distriparks Limited and one of its subsidiaries, Snowman Logistics Limited. He is the director of another Gateway Distriparks subsidiary, Gateway Rail Freight Limited and JTC Consultancy Services (Holdings) Private Limited. He is also the director of AEC Edu Group Private Limited and holds directorship of two of its subsidiaries, AEC College and AEC Education Plc.\n\nGopinath Pillai is the chairman of Management Board of the \"Institute of South Asian Studies\", a National University of Singapore funded research institute. He also holds the post of the deputy chairman of Ang Mo Kio-Thye Hua Kwan Hospital a known healthcare centre in Singapore for rehabilitative care.\n\nGopinath Pillai, a recipient of \"Meritorious Award\" and \"Friend of Labour Award\" from National Trades Union Congress (NTUC) and \"Distinguished Alumni Award\" from the University of Singapore, received the MCD Award from the Ministry of Community Development and Sports, Singapore in 1998. The next year, in 1999, he received the Bintang Bakti Masyarakat (Public Service Star Award BBM). Singapore Computer Society conferred on him the \"Friend of IT Award\" in 2001 and the Government of Singapore honoured Pillai, in 2009, with the National Day Award. The Government of India included him in the Republic Day honours list in 2012 for the civilian honour of Padma Shri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "883940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=883940", "title": "Hawaii Business", "text": "Hawaii Business\n\nHawaii Business is a Honolulu-based business magazine founded in 1955. Its parent company, PacificBasin Communications, also publishes \"Honolulu Magazine\", \"Hawaii Home + Remodeling\", \"Island Family\", \"Ala Moana magazine\", \"Hawaii magazine\" and Japanese language visitor publication \"Hawaii Ai\". \n\nFounded in 1955, \"Hawaii Business\" is one of the oldest regional business magazines in America. Among its signature issues are the Best Places to Work (April), Hawaii Business Top 250, ranking Hawaii's largest companies (August); the Hawaii Business Black Book, profiling many senior executives of the Top 250 companies (December); Twenty People to Watch (March) and Top 100 Realtors (June).\n\nThe magazine's editorial content focuses on big issues concerning the state's major industries: tourism, construction, agriculture and real estate. The SmallBiz section, which runs every month, covers Hawaii's small businesses. Throughout the year, Hawaii Business produces business events and seminars aimed at the business community, with specific events tied to the signature issues. Events range from awards, to honoring specific individuals, to informative and educational forums and symposiums.\n\nIn 2013 Bobby Senaha became the publisher of \"Hawaii Business\".\n"}
{"id": "15401135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15401135", "title": "Johan Staël von Holstein", "text": "Johan Staël von Holstein\n\nLars Johan Magnus Staël von Holstein (born 5 May 1963 in Halmstad, Sweden) is a Swedish entrepreneur, venture capitalist and author who co-founded dot-com companies such as and LetsBuyIt during the early dot-com boom in Sweden.\n\nStael von Holstein is a well known public speaker and author within the field of entrepreneurship, technology, privacy and digital rights issues and has been perceived as one of the leading Internet visionaries in Europe. \n\nStaël von Holstein studied information technology at Lund University, in the south of Sweden. In 1989, at the age of 25, he began studies at the Stockholm School of Business, Stockholm University in Sweden, where he majored in marketing management. He also attended a summer session at Harvard Business School, taking two MBA course units, \"International Business\" and \"Doing Business with Pacific Rim Countries\", and spent a semester at Lynn University in Florida.\n\nHe began his career at media and finance conglomerate the Kinnevik Group as apprentice to Jan Hugo Stenbeck. Staël von Holstein worked his way up to his first CEO position at start up ITV (Interactive television), having been a marketing director of Z-TV, the Kinnevik Group’s flagship TV channel for young people. He grew InTV to become the largest teletext company in Europe with offices in six countries. Staël von Holstein was vice president of Inlux, in Luxemburg, then went on to become responsible for banque Invik’s sales and credit card operations.\n\nAt the end of 1995, Staël von Holstein left the Kinnevik Group to found website-design company together with Jesper Jos Olsson, Erik Wickström, and Magnus Lindahl.\n\nHe moved back to Stockholm in 2004 to start IQUBE, which quickly grew into one of the largest private incubators in Europe with a portfolio of more than 100 companies.\n\nIQUBE was recognized as a value creator and major investors included Investor, the Nordic region's largest industrial holding company, as well as Sjätte AP-Fonden, a Swedish pension fund. Staël von Holstein during this time was recognized as a Global Leader of Tomorrow by \"Chief Executive\" magazine and elected as one of ten board members on the Swedish Government's Cultural Board, a government agency with the task of implementing national cultural policy.\n\nHe was an independent, right-wing columnist for the Stockholm-edition of the newspaper \"Metro\" until 2000 and is now back.\n\nAt the end of 1995, Staël von Holstein left the Kinnevik Group to found Icon Medialab together with Jesper Jos Olsson, Erik Wickström, and Magnus Lindahl.[6]. \nThe company went public in 1999 and continued rapid expansion with a US 70 million-dollar investment to the Asian market in 2000. At its peak the company had over 3000 employees in 32 offices in cities around the globe: Amsterdam, Barcelona, Basel, Berlin, Brussels, Copenhagen, Frankfurt, Geneva, Gothenburg, Hamburg, Helsinki, Hong Kong, Lisbon, London, Madrid, Malmö, Melbourne, Milan, Munich, New York, Oslo, Paris, San Francisco, Shanghai, Singapore, St Louis, Stockholm, Sydney, Tampere, Vienna and Washington DC. The company merged with Lost Boys in 2002 and later changed its name to LB Icon AB. In 2006 the company merged with Framfab and changed its name to LBI International AB. Bought 2011 by Publicist for $540 Million and is still the largest web consultancy in the world.\n\nIn 1998 Staël von Holstein founded LetsBuyIt, an online price comparison platform that enables its users to share, compare, and buy various products. It was the first ultimate Social Shopping Portal. As one of the first sharing economy companies it was recognized as the biggest e-commerce company, in Europe, two years in a row.\n\nSpeed Ventures chairman and founder (sold)\n1998-\nVenture Capital firm\n\nIn 2004, Staël von Holstein started IQUBE, which quickly grew into one of the largest private incubators in Europe[7] with a portfolio of more than 100 companies.\nStaël von Holstein founded MyCube in 2008, a digital life management tool for exchanging, sharing and selling content. Mycube was the first decentralized social exchange that prioritized privacy, ownership, and user freedom to monetize on their own creativity in contrast to centralized networks as Facebook etc, where a very small amount of value is distributed back to the content creators.\nMycube filed for voluntary liquidation late 2012.\n\nSeed investor in: \nAccedoBroadband, Apotea, BokaDirekt, BlueFish, Diamorph, Elucidon (Silobreaker), EpiSurf, IconMedialab (Sold, Public on NASDAQ & Stockholm stock exchange and eventually bought by Publicis), Invajo, KennethWorks (Sold to Google), Letsbuyit (Sold, Public on NeueMacht), RAP, Result, Reis (sold), TheLocal, Tunigo (sold to Spotify) WeMind, Werlabs\nIQUBE was recognized as a value creator and major investors included Investor, the Nordic region's largest industrial holding company, as well as Sjätte AP-Fonden, a Swedish pension fund. Staël von Holstein was during this time recognized as a Global Leader of Tomorrow by Chief Executive magazine and elected as one of ten board members on the Swedish Government's Cultural Board, a government agency with the task of implementing national cultural policy.[8]\n\n"}
{"id": "1999242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999242", "title": "Labour council", "text": "Labour council\n\nA labour council, trades council or industrial council is an association of labour unions or union branches in a given area. Most commonly, they represent unions in a given geographical area, whether at the district, city, region, or provincial or state level. They may also be based on a particular industry rather than geographical area, as for example, in the \"Maritime Council of Australia\" which co-ordinated the waterfront and maritime unions involved in the 1890 Australian Maritime Dispute.\n\nAffiliates of labour councils are trade union branches or locals, and occasionally other labour movement organisations. Citywide or provincial councils may have district or regional labour council affiliates as well as trade unions. Some labour councils restrict their membership to organisations which are affiliated with a particular national trade union federation, such as many state-level labour councils in the United States, which are chartered from the AFL-CIO national confederation.\n\nFinances are usually obtained through an affiliation fee, often based on a per capita tax on the membership of affiliates. In Australia, \"Trades and Labour Councils\" often have their own hall and offices known as a Trades Hall, with the term \"Trades Hall\" often used as a colloquial expression for the \"Labour Council\" or \"Trades Hall Council\".\n\nLabour councils are a widespread phenomenon, but are given different names in different English-speaking areas. \"Labour Council\" is most common in Canada and Australia, \"Labor Council\" is used in the (USA) and \"Trades Council\", \"Trades Union Council\" or \"Trades and Labour Council\" in the United Kingdom (and until recently was widespread in Australia) and some other countries. Another term sometimes used is \"Industrial Council\", as in for example, the Barrier Industrial Council of Broken Hill in Australia.\n\nNational associations of trade unions, such as British Trade Union Congress may also be considered a labour council, though the term often implies a primarily local organisation.\n\n\"Labour Councils\" were formed to meet a need to co-ordinate trade union activity in a geographical region. The earliest examples of this form of organisation can be found in the medieval craft guilds and Craft halls that developed in European cities. An example of this is the historic Glasgow Trades Hall wherein the 14 Incorporated Trades of Hammermen, Tailors, Cordiners, Maltmen, Weavers, Bakers, Skinners, Wrights, Coopers, Fleshers, Masons, Gardeners, Barbers, Bonnetmakers & Dyers yearly elected members of the Trades House, headed by the Deacon Convener of the Trades:\n\nThe trade union activity of the late nineteenth century in particular spurred the establishment of Labour Councils and Trades Councils acrossing North America, Australia and Britain.\n\nSome notable events in the history of \"labour councils\" include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39080104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39080104", "title": "Labour is not a commodity", "text": "Labour is not a commodity\n\n\"Labour is not a commodity\" is the principle expressed in the preamble to the International Labour Organization's founding documents. It expresses the view that people should not be treated like inanimate commodities, capital, another mere factor of production, or resources. Instead, people who work for a living should be treated as human beings and accorded dignity and respect.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4265084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4265084", "title": "Levent", "text": "Levent\n\nLevent is a neighbourhood and one of the main business districts of Istanbul, Turkey, located on the European side of the city. It is a part of the municipality of Beşiktaş which is situated to the north of the Golden Horn, at the western shore of the Bosphorus strait.\n\nLevent is in direct competition with the nearby Maslak business district for new skyscraper projects. One of the major skyscraper clusters of the city is located here, well hidden behind the hills of the Bosphorus, and not disturbing the atmosphere of the historical peninsula of Istanbul, which is at quite a distance.\n\nLevent hosts the tallest completed skyscraper of Turkey, the 54-floor Sapphire, which has a roof height of 238 metres (261 metres including its spire).\n\nThe stations \"Gayrettepe\", \"Levent\" and \"4. Levent\" along the M2 line of the Istanbul Metro serve the Levent business district and its surrounding neighbourhoods.\n\nLevent is also a name for men in Turkey (cf. Levent) that derives from the \"Levend\", a type of soldier (naval infantry) of the Ottoman Navy. \"Levend\" itself has derived from \"Levantino\" (Levantine) which means \"Person from the Levant (East Mediterranean)\" in Italian. This was how the Italians (the Genoese and Venetians) used to call the Ottoman sailors, a name which was also adopted by the Ottoman Turks. The use of the word \"levend\" for describing seamen first appeared in the Ottoman Turkish language during the 16th century. These marine soldiers had the reputation of possessing strong, muscular physiques and daring, fearless characters; which is the reason why the Turkish word \"levent\", its Greek cognate \"levénti\" (λεβέντη) and its Bulgarian cognate \"levént\" (левент) are still popularly used for defining \"athletic, gallant, brave\" men.\n\nThe name Levent (\"Levend\") came to be applied to the neighbourhood because in 1780 the Ottoman Fleet Admiral Cezayirli Gazi Hasan Pasha was awarded a farmland here by the Ottoman Sultan Abdülhamid I; and in the early 19th century a military compound was built in the area of this farm. The nearby İstinye neighbourhood on the European shoreline of the Bosphorus also featured an important shipyard and dock for maintaining and repairing the military vessels of the Ottoman Navy. However, the Imperial Arsenal (\"Tersâne-i Âmire\") and the Naval Ministry (\"Bahriye Nezareti\") of the Ottoman Navy were located on the shores of the Golden Horn.\n\nIn the early 19th century, during the final years of the reign of Sultan Selim III, the first military compound of the Nizam-ı Cedid (New Order) Army was built in Levent; which was then known as the \"Levend Çiftliği\" (Levend Farmlands), eventually becoming known as the \"Levend Kışlası\" (Levend Barracks).\n\nIn 1868, during the first territorial organization of the Istanbul Municipality, Levend (Levent) was placed within the district of Beşiktaş (which was designated as the \"7th Area\" of the Istanbul Municipality), having remained within this district ever since.\n\nThe modern neighbourhood of Levent was formed in 1947, when Emlak Kredi Bankası (a Turkish bank which was established to finance housing projects) chose the Levent area for constructing a well-planned residential compound, formed mostly of villa type houses with gardens. After the completion of the first phase of the Levent project in 1960, numerous other residential compounds were constructed in the area, eventually extending towards nearby Etiler.\n\nStarting from the late 1980s and early 1990s, with initial projects such as the Sabancı Center, Yapı Kredi Towers, TAT Towers, Metrocity Towers and İş Bankası Towers, Levent became a popular location for constructing new skyscrapers, mostly owned by Turkish banks and conglomerates. One of the city's major skyline clusters (together with those of Maslak and Şişli on the European side; and Ataşehir and Kozyatağı on the Asian side of Istanbul) is located in Levent. At present, Levent hosts the tallest skyscraper of Istanbul and Turkey, the 54-floor Istanbul Sapphire; while the construction of numerous new mixed-use skyscraper projects and shopping malls are ongoing in the neighbourhood, which has evolved into a central business district.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32224575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32224575", "title": "Lex Brown", "text": "Lex Brown\n\nLex Brown (born Maybole, Ayrshire) is a Scottish businessman. A former decorated RAF helicopter pilot, he came to public attention after buying Tioram Castle, in Moidart, for £300,000 in 1997.\n\nThere followed years of high-profile conflicts with Historic Scotland, Highland Council and other interested parties, including a public inquiry in 2002 and an appeal to the Scottish Government in 2006.\nFollowing a change of personnel at Historic Scotland., Brown renewed discussions with HS of his plans to reroof and live in Castle Tioram, though these are still at an early stage.\n\nBrown was mostly brought up overseas, in Egypt and Ghana, where his father worked as a civil engineer. His Gaelic-speaking, west highland mother endowed Brown with a respect for his highland heritage.\n\nAfter 20 years in the armed forces, Brown farmed on Loch Lomondside before making a fortune in the air cargo and oil exploration business.\n\n"}
{"id": "1599814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599814", "title": "Lima District", "text": "Lima District\n\nLima is a district of Lima Province in Peru. It is, however, not the Central business district of Lima, the country's capital city: this is San Isidro District. \n\nLima district is the oldest in Lima and as such, vestiges of the city's colonial era remain today in the Historic centre of Lima, which was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1988. This area is also known as Cercado de Lima (Spanish: \"Walled Lima\").\n\nCurrently, the mayor of the Lima District is Luis Castañeda Lossio and its postal code is 1.\n\nThe district has a total land area of 21.98 km². Its administrative center is located at 154 meters above sea level.\n\n\nAccording to a 2005 estimate by the INEI, the district has 278,804 inhabitants and a population density of 15,736.9 persons/km². In 1999, there were 75,595 households in the district.\n\nThe high point of Lima's religious calendar for the masses is a month of festivities in October dedicated to the Lord of Miracles, during which take place several processions in the city.\nCentral Lima (known as Cercado proper) is limited by Avenida Alfonso Ugarte on the west and Jirón Huánuco (Huánuco Street) on the east. It is divided into West and East sides by Jirón de la Unión (Union Street), from which \"cuadras\" (blocks) are numbered beginning at 100 and changing the first numbers at the next block. Unlike New York's Fifth Avenue, though, \"Jirón de la Unión\" is not paved for cars, but almost entirely a shopping and pedestrian street; the main thoroughfares for cars and buses are Tacna Ave. on the West side and Abancay Ave. on the East. Both are separated from Jirón de la Unión by 4 blocks. The \"Plaza de Armas\" (Grand Army Plaza), which is the main square, is located on block 2 of Jirón de la Unión, facing the Peruvian government palace and the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima (City Hall). It's also known as Damero de Pizarro (\"Pizarro's Checkerboard\").\n\nEast of the center is the Barrios Altos (Uptown) neighborhood. Here the oldest, though least stable, buildings in Central Lima are located. Two cemeteries, El Angel and Presbítero Maestro, form the eastern border with El Agustino. Parts of the long-demolished colonial city walls can be seen here. Abutting this to the southwest is the Barrio chino (Chinatown) neighborhood, dating from the mid-1800s.\n\nSouth of the West Side is Santa Beatriz section, which contains residential buildings and the \"Parque de la Reserva\". Santa Beatriz is locally famous for containing the buildings for the state TV network TNP (Ch. 7), and the top two private TV networks, America Television (Ch. 4) and Panamericana Television (Ch. 5). Its main thoroughfare is Arequipa Avenue, a narrow boulevard lined with trees of all sizes. Santa Beatriz is also home to the city (and country)'s main football stadium, the Estadio Nacional (\"National Stadium\").\n\nWest of the center is the Industrial Area, an industrial belt extending into neighboring Callao Region, and home to the main industries in both city and country. Most of the area is covered by large blocks containing large factories.\n\nAt its northern and southern edges, there are clusters of residential areas, particularly in the southern zone bordering Pueblo Libre, San Miguel and Callao Region's Bellavista District.\n\n"}
{"id": "49922433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49922433", "title": "List of wealthiest organizations", "text": "List of wealthiest organizations\n\nThe following is a list of the world's wealthiest organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25873276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25873276", "title": "Lo Hoi-sing", "text": "Lo Hoi-sing\n\nLo Hoi-sing (; 1949 – 14 January 2010) was a Hong Kong businessman born into a communist Hong Kong family. He was famous for rescuing Chinese dissidents in Operation Yellowbird after the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, for which he was arrested in 1989. He was later released at the request of British Prime Minister John Major in 1991.\n\nLo was born in 1949 to (), a communist Chinese editor of a Hong Kong newspaper. He was raised and educated in Hong Kong and later continued his studies in the city of Guangzhou, where he experienced the Cultural Revolution during the 1960s. He later returned to Hong Kong and began working for a communist newspaper, like his father.\n\nLo ended his ties with the Communist Party when his father was arrested by the Chinese government. He instead began working in Beijing as the chief representative for the Trade Development Council of Hong Kong, but he resigned the post in early 1989 after seeking business opportunities in trade between Hong Kong and the PRC.\n\nLo was married to children's author (Zhou Mimi), the daughter of the well known writer Huang Qingyun.\n\nLo died in 2010 at Queen Mary Hospital in Pok Fu Lam from the combined effects of a lung infection, diabetes, and a weaked immune system.\n"}
{"id": "55941391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55941391", "title": "Louis Stewart Gumley", "text": "Louis Stewart Gumley\n\nSir Louis Stewart Gumley LLD (1870 –1941) was a Scottish property agent who founded the firm Gumleys and who served as Lord Provost of Edinburgh from 1935 to 1938. Gumleys merged in 1989 to become Speirs Gumley.\n\nHe was born in Dublin in Ireland on 7 May 1870 the son of Thomas Franc Sadler Gumley and his wife Wilhelmina Moffat.\n\nHe moved to Edinburgh around 1890 with his mother, following the death of his father, and they lived in a flat at 11 Howe Street.\n\nHe founded Gumleys in 1898 at 84 Leith Walk.\n\nIn 1910 he was running a property business at 89 Leith Walk and living at 3 Dundas Street in Edinburgh's Second New Town.\n\nHe died on 30 September 1941 at Bowness-on-Windermere in the Lake District but was returned to Edinburgh for burial in Warriston Cemetery in the north of the city. The grave lies at the west end of the upper section close to the main entrance path.\n\nHis portrait by Stanley Cursiter was painted in 1937 and is held by City of Edinburgh Council.\n\nHe was knighted by King George V during his period as Lord Provost.\n\nIn 1901 he married Catherine Isabella Horne Lindsay (1876-1951).\n\nHis sons included Charles Stewart Gumley WS (1908-1977) and Ronald Guthrie Tait Gumley (1912-1998).\n"}
{"id": "13556907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13556907", "title": "Louise Botting", "text": "Louise Botting\n\nElizabeth Louise Botting CBE (born 19 September 1939) is a British company director and former broadcaster. She was presenter of BBC Radio 4's \"Money Box\" programme between 1977 and 1992. After her broadcasting career, she became one of the first female directors of a FTSE-100 company, through her appointment to the board of CGNU (formerly General Accident, now Aviva). She has also held non-executive directorships of other companies such as Trinity Mirror, London Weekend Television and Camelot Group.\n\nIn 1974, she founded the private wealth management firm Douglas Deakin Young, serving as its managing director and then chairman until the firm was sold to Duncan Lawrie in 2005. Over the years, she has had an extensive portfolio of business interests.\n\nBotting was born into a middle-class family, attending the local grammar school, Sutton Coldfield High School for Girls (now Sutton Coldfield Grammar School for Girls) and went on to the London School of Economics.\n\nAfter her graduation in 1961 she joined the British merchant bank Kleinwort Benson as one of their first female analysts. Her marriage to the writer and explorer Douglas Botting led to a career break as she gave birth to her two daughters, Kate and Anna Botting (now a newsreader with Sky News). Her career in journalism started in 1970 when she started writing for the \"Daily Mail\". She started broadcasting with British Forces Broadcasting Service in 1971 and continued to do this until 1981.\n\nIn 1974, she established the private wealth management firm Douglas Deakin Young, with the businessman George Douglas and James Deakin, a medical doctor. Her initial role was managing director, until her succession by Alan Warner in 1982, when she became chairman. She remained in this role until the firm was sold to Duncan Lawrie in 2005.\n\nIn 1977, she was asked to be the founding presenter of BBC Radio 4's \"Money Box\". The aim of the programme was to make sensible personal financial advice available to ordinary people. The still ongoing programme covers a broad range of investment and tax issues, as well as covering major changes in social security. The popularity of the programme increased, attracting up to three million listeners each week. The political influence of the programme was highlighted by the fact that, at times, the Prime Minister's office often asked to know the proposed content in advance.\n\nBy 1992, Botting wished to pursue other business interests and was asked to join the board of London Weekend Television. This appointment was unpalatable to the BBC and Botting decided to resign from the programme. She was succeeded by Alison Mitchell.\n\nBotting has pursued many other business interests. In addition to Douglas Deakin Young and London Weekend Television, she served as non-executive director of CGNU (formerly General Accident, now Aviva) and Trinity Mirror. She still remains a director of national lottery operator Camelot Group.\n\nShe also acted as a member of the Top Salaries Review Body between 1987 and 1994, and was rewarded by Prime Minister John Major for her work and for services to journalism with a CBE.\n\nHer interests have also extended to local radio, with ownership of a number of different stakes. In 1995 she chaired the consortium who were awarded the new local radio licence for Stratford-upon-Avon, launching as The Bear in 1996.\n\nShe also acted as professional pension trustee to Channel Four, Blackwell Publishing, W H Smith and the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising. After the sale of Douglas Deakin Young in 2005 to Duncan Lawrie, she stepped down as chairman and now acts as a Consultant.\n\nShe is a patron of APT Action on Poverty (Registered Charity No. 290836).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27832693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27832693", "title": "Mario Corti (manager)", "text": "Mario Corti (manager)\n\nMario Corti (born Lausanne, October 22, 1946) is a Swiss businessman who acted as chairman of Swissair. \n\nCorti was put on trial, accused of unlawful management in regards to the failure of Swissair in 2001. Corti was acquitted of all charges. Corti began his term as the Swissair CEO in 2001. Corti, who also served as the CFO of Nestlé, is nicknamed \"Super Mario\".\n"}
{"id": "240342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240342", "title": "Market segmentation", "text": "Market segmentation\n\nMarket segmentation is the activity of dividing a broad consumer or business market, normally consisting of existing and potential customers, into sub-groups of consumers (known as \"segments\") based on some type of shared characteristics. In dividing or segmenting markets, researchers typically look for common characteristics such as shared needs, common interests, similar lifestyles or even similar demographic profiles. The overall aim of segmentation is to identify \"high yield segments\" – that is, those segments that are likely to be the most profitable or that have growth potential – so that these can be selected for special attention (i.e. become target markets).\n\nMany different ways to segment a market have been identified. Business-to-business (B2B) sellers might segment the market into different types of businesses or countries. While business to consumer (B2C) sellers might segment the market into demographic segments, lifestyle segments, behavioural segments or any other meaningful segment.\n\nMarket segmentation assumes that different market segments require different marketing programs – that is, different offers, prices, promotion, distribution or some combination of marketing variables. Market segmentation is not only designed to identify the most profitable segments, but also to develop profiles of key segments in order to better understand their needs and purchase motivations. Insights from segmentation analysis are subsequently used to support marketing strategy development and planning. Many marketers use the S-T-P approach; Segmentation→ Targeting → Positioning to provide the framework for marketing planning objectives. That is, a market is segmented, one or more segments are selected for targeting, and products or services are positioned in a way that resonates with the selected target market or markets.\n\nMarket segmentation is the process of dividing up mass markets into groups with similar needs and wants. The rationale for market segmentation is that in order to achieve competitive advantage and superior performance, firms should: \"(1) identify segments of industry demand, (2) target specific segments of demand, and (3) develop specific 'marketing mixes' for each targeted market segment. \" From an economic perspective, segmentation is built on the assumption that heterogeneity in demand allows for demand to be disaggregated into segments with distinct demand functions.\n\nThe business historian, Richard S. Tedlow, identifies four stages in the evolution of market segmentation:\n\n\nThe practice of market segmentation emerged well before marketers thought about it at a theoretical level. Archaeological evidence suggests that Bronze Age traders segmented trade routes according to geographical circuits. Other evidence suggests that the practice of modern market segmentation was developed incrementally from the 16th century onwards. Retailers, operating outside the major metropolitan cities, could not afford to serve one type of clientele exclusively, yet retailers needed to find ways to separate the wealthier clientele from the \"riff raff\". One simple technique was to have a window opening out onto the street from which customers could be served. This allowed the sale of goods to the common people, without encouraging them to come inside. Another solution, that came into vogue from the late sixteenth century, was to invite favored customers into a back-room of the store, where goods were permanently on display. Yet another technique that emerged around the same time was to hold a showcase of goods in the shopkeeper's private home for the benefit of wealthier clients. Samuel Pepys, for example, writing in 1660, describes being invited to the home of a retailer to view a wooden jack. The eighteenth-century English entrepreneurs, Josiah Wedgewood and Matthew Boulton, both staged expansive showcases of their wares in their private residences or in rented halls to which only the upper classes were invited while Wedgewood used a team of itinerant salesmen to sell wares to the masses.\n\nEvidence of early marketing segmentation has also been noted elsewhere in Europe. A study of the German book trade found examples of both product differentiation and market segmentation in the 1820s. From the 1880s, German toy manufacturers were producing models of tin toys for specific geographic markets; London omnibuses and ambulances destined for the British market; French postal delivery vans for Continental Europe and American locomotives intended for sale in America. Such activities suggest that basic forms of market segmentation have been practised since the 17th century and possibly earlier.\n\nContemporary market segmentation emerged in the first decades of the twentieth century as marketers responded to two pressing issues. Demographic and purchasing data were available for groups but rarely for individuals and secondly, advertising and distribution channels were available for groups, but rarely for single consumers. Between 1902 and 1910, George B Waldron, working at Mahin's Advertising Agency in the United States used tax registers, city directories and census data to show advertisers the proportion of educated vs illiterate consumers and the earning capacity of different occupations etc. in a very early example of simple market segmentation. In 1924 Paul Cherington developed the 'ABCD' household typology; the first socio-demographic segmentation tool. By the 1930s, market researchers such as Ernest Dichter recognised that demographics alone were insufficient to explain different marketing behaviours and began exploring the use of lifestyles, attitudes, values, beliefs and culture to segment markets. With access to group level data only, brand marketers approached the task from a tactical viewpoint. Thus, segmentation was essentially a brand-driven process.\n\nWendell R. Smith is generally credited with being the first to introduce the concept of market segmentation into the marketing literature in 1956 with the publication of his article, \"Product Differentiation and Market Segmentation as Alternative Marketing Strategies.\" Smith's article makes it clear that he had observed \"many examples of segmentation\" emerging and to a certain extent saw this as a \"natural force\" in the market that would \"not be denied.\" As Schwarzkopf points out, Smith was codifying implicit knowledge that had been used in advertising and brand management since at least the 1920s.\n\nUntil relatively recently, most segmentation approaches have retained a tactical perspective in that they address immediate short-term decisions; such as describing the current “market served” and are concerned with informing marketing mix decisions. However, with the advent of digital communications and mass data storage, it has been possible for marketers to conceive of segmenting at the level of the individual consumer. Extensive data is now available to support segmentation at very narrow groups or even for the single customer, allowing marketers to devise a customised offer with an individual price which can be disseminated via real-time communications. Some scholars have argued that the fragmentation of markets has rendered traditional approaches to market segmentation less useful.\n\nThe limitations of conventional segmentation have been well documented in the literature. Perennial criticisms include:\n\n\nMarket segmentation has many critics. But in spite of its limitations, market segmentation remains one of the enduring concepts in marketing and continues to be widely used in practice. One American study, for example, suggested that almost 60 percent of senior executives had used market segmentation in the past two years.\n\nA key consideration for marketers is whether to segment or not to segment. Depending on company philosophy, resources, product type or market characteristics, a business may develop an undifferentiated approach or \"differentiated approach\". In an undifferentiated approach, the marketer ignores segmentation and develops a product that meets the needs of the largest number of buyers. In a differentiated approach the firm targets one or more market segments, and develops separate offers for each segment.\n\nIn consumer marketing, it is difficult to find examples of undifferentiated approaches. Even goods such as salt and sugar, which were once treated as commodities, are now highly differentiated. Consumers can purchase a variety of salt products; cooking salt, table salt, sea salt, rock salt, kosher salt, mineral salt, herbal or vegetable salts, iodised salt, salt substitutes and many more. Sugar also comes in many different types - cane sugar, beet sugar, raw sugar, white refined sugar, brown sugar, caster sugar, sugar lumps, icing sugar (also known as milled sugar), sugar syrup, invert sugar and a plethora of sugar substitutes including \"smart sugar\" which is essentially a blend of pure sugar and a sugar substitute. Each of these product types is designed to meet the needs of specific market segments. Invert sugar and sugar syrups, for example, are marketed to food manufacturers where they are used in the production of conserves, chocolate, and baked goods. Sugars marketed to consumers appeal to different usage segments – refined sugar is primarily for use on the table, while caster sugar and icing sugar are primarily designed for use in home-baked goods.\n\nA number of factors are likely to affect a company's segmentation strategy:\n\n\nThe process of segmenting the market is deceptively simple. Seven basic steps describe the entire process including segmentation, targeting, and positioning. In practice, however, the task can be very laborious since it involves poring over voluminous data, and requires a great deal of skill in analysis, interpretation and some judgment. Although a great deal of analysis needs to be undertaken, and many decisions need to be made, marketers tend to use the so-called S-T-P process, that is Segmentation→ Targeting → Positioning, as a broad framework for simplifying the process. Segmentation comprises identifying the market to be segmented; identification, selection, and application of bases to be used in that segmentation; and development of profiles. Targeting comprises an evaluation of each segment's attractiveness and selection of the segments to be targeted. Positioning comprises the identification of optimal position and development of the marketing program.\n\nThe market for a given product or service known as the \"market potential\" or the \"total addressable market (TAM).\" Given that this is the market to be segmented, the market analyst should begin by identifying the size of the potential market. For existing products and services, estimating the size and value of the market potential is relatively straightforward. However, estimating the market potential can be very challenging when a product or service is totally new to the market and no historical data on which to base forecasts exists.\n\nA basic approach is to first assess the size of the broad population, then estimate the percentage likely to use the product or service and finally to estimate the revenue potential.\n\nAnother approach is to use historical analogy. For example, the manufacturer of HDTV might assume that the number of consumers willing to adopt high definition TV will be similar to the adoption rate for Color TV. To support this type of analysis, data for household penetration of TV, Radio, PCs, and other communications technologies is readily available from government statistics departments. Finding useful analogies can be challenging because every market is unique. However, analogous product adoption and growth rates can provide the analyst with benchmark estimates, and can be used to cross-validate other methods that might be used to forecast sales or market size.\n\nA more robust technique for estimating the market potential is known as the Bass diffusion model, the equation for which follows:\n\nWhere:\n\n\nThe major challenge with the Bass model is estimating the parameters for \"p\" and \"q\". However, the Bass model has been so widely used in empirical studies that the values of \"p\" and \"q\" for more than 50 consumer and industrial categories have been determined and are widely published in tables. The average value for \"p\" is 0.037 and for \"q\" is 0.327.\n\nA major step in the segmentation process is the selection of a suitable base. In this step, marketers are looking for a means of achieving internal homogeneity (similarity within the segments), and external heterogeneity (differences between segments). In other words, they are searching for a process that minimises differences between members of a segment and maximises differences between each segment. In addition, the segmentation approach must yield segments that are meaningful for the specific marketing problem or situation. For example, a person's hair color may be a relevant base for a shampoo manufacturer, but it would not be relevant for a seller of financial services. Selecting the right base requires a good deal of thought and a basic understanding of the market to be segmented.\n\nIn reality, marketers can segment the market using any base or variable provided that it is identifiable, substantial, responsive, actionable and stable.\n\n\nFor example, although dress size is not a standard base for segmenting a market, some fashion houses have successfully segmented the market using women's dress size as a variable. However, the most common bases for segmenting consumer markets include: geographics, demographics, psychographics, and behaviour. Marketers normally select a single base for the segmentation analysis, although, some bases can be combined into a single segmentation with care. For example, geographics and demographics are often combined, but other bases are rarely combined. Given that psychographics includes demographic variables such as age, gender, and income as well as attitudinal and behavioural variables, it makes little logical sense to combine psychographics with demographics or other bases. Any attempt to use combined bases needs careful consideration and a logical foundation.\n\nSource: Based on Wikiversity, Marketing [E-Book], c. 2015\n\nThe following sections provide a detailed description of the most common forms of consumer market segmentation.\n\nGeographic segmentation divides markets according to geographic criteria. In practice, markets can be segmented as broadly as continents and as narrowly as neighborhoods or postal codes. Typical geographic variables include:\n\n\nThe geo-cluster approach (also called \"geodemographic segmentation\") combines demographic data with geographic data to create richer, more detailed profiles. Geo-cluster approaches are a consumer classification system designed market segmentation and consumer profiling purposes. They classify residential regions or postcodes on the basis of census and lifestyle characteristics obtained from a wide range of sources. This allows the segmentation of a population into smaller groups defined by individual characteristics such as demographic, socio-economic or other shared socio-demographic characteristics.\n\nGeographic segmentation may be considered the first step in international marketing, where marketers must decide whether to adapt their existing products and marketing programs for the unique needs of distinct geographic markets. Tourism Marketing Boards often segment international visitors based on their country of origin.\n\nA number of proprietary geo-demographic packages are available for commercial use. Geographic segmentation is widely used in direct marketing campaigns to identify areas which are potential candidates for personal selling, letter-box distribution or direct mail. Geo-cluster segmentation is widely used by Governments and public sector departments such as urban planning, health authorities, police, criminal justice departments, telecommunications and public utility organisations such as water boards.\n\nSegmentation according to demography is based on consumer- demographic variables such as age, income, family size, socio-economic status, etc.\nDemographic segmentation assumes that consumers with similar demographic profiles will exhibit similar purchasing patterns, motivations, interests and lifestyles and that these characteristics will translate into similar product/brand preferences. In practice, demographic segmentation can potentially employ any variable that is used by the nation's census collectors. Typical demographic variables and their descriptors are as follows:\n\n\nIn practice, most demographic segmentation utilises a combination of demographic variables.\n\nThe use of multiple segmentation variables normally requires analysis of databases using sophisticated statistical techniques such as cluster analysis or principal components analysis. It should be noted that these types of analysis require very large sample sizes. However, data-collection is expensive for individual firms. For this reason, many companies purchase data from commercial market research firms, many of whom develop proprietary software to interrogate the data.\n\nThe labels applied to some of the more popular demographic segments began to enter the popular lexicon in the 1980s. These include the following:\n\nPsychographic segmentation, which is sometimes called psychometric or lifestyle segmentation, is measured by studying the activities, interests, and opinions (AIOs) of customers. It considers how people spend their leisure, and which external influences they are most responsive to and influenced by. Psychographics is a very widely used basis for segmentation, because it enables marketers to identify tightly defined market segments and better understand consumer motivations for product or brand choice.\n\nWhile many of these proprietary psychographic segmentation analyses are well-known, the majority of studies based on psychographics are custom designed. That is, the segments are developed for individual products at a specific time. One common thread among psychographic segmentation studies is that they use quirky names to describe the segments.\n\nBehavioural segmentation divides consumers into groups according to their observed behaviours. Many marketers believe that behavioural variables are superior to demographics and geographics for building market segments and some analysts have suggested that behavioural segmentation is killing off demographics. Typical behavioural variables and their descriptors include:\n\n\nNote that these descriptors are merely commonly used examples. Marketers customise the variable and descriptors for both local conditions and for specific applications. For example, in the health industry, planners often segment broad markets according to 'health consciousness' and identify low, moderate and highly health conscious segments. This is an applied example of behavioural segmentation, using attitude to product or service as a key descriptor or variable which has been customised for the specific application.\n\nPurchase or usage occasion segmentation focuses on analyzing occasions when consumers might purchase or consume a product. This approach customer-level and occasion-level segmentation models and provides an understanding of the individual customers’ needs, behaviour and value under different occasions of usage and time. Unlike traditional segmentation models, this approach assigns more than one segment to each unique customer, depending on the current circumstances they are under.\n\nBenefit segmentation (sometimes called \"needs-based segmentation\") was developed by Grey Advertising in the late 1960s. The benefits-sought by purchasers enables the market to be divided into segments with distinct needs, perceived value, benefits sought or advantage that accrues from the purchase of a product or service. Marketers using benefit segmentation might develop products with different quality levels, performance, customer service, special features or any other meaningful benefit and pitch different products at each of the segments identified. Benefit segmentation is one of the more commonly used approaches to segmentation and is widely used in many consumer markets including motor vehicles, fashion and clothing, furniture, consumer electronics, and holiday-makers.\n\nLoker and Purdue, for example, used benefit segmentation to segment the pleasure holiday travel market. The segments identified in this study were the naturalists, pure excitement seekers, escapists.\n\nAttitudinal segmentation provides insight into the mindset of customers, especially the attitudes and beliefs that drive consumer decision-making and behaviour. An example of attitudinal segmentation comes from the UK's Department of Environment which segmented the British population into six segments, based on attitudes that drive behaviour relating to environmental protection:\n\n\nIn addition to geographics, demographics, psychographics and behavioural bases, marketers occasionally turn to other means of segmenting the market, or to develop segment profiles.\n\nA generation is defined as \"a cohort of people born within a similar span of time (15 years at the upper end) who share a comparable age and life stage and who were shaped by a particular span of time (events, trends, and developments).\" Generational segmentation refers to the process of dividing and analyzing a population into cohorts based on their birth date. Generational segmentation assumes that people's values and attitudes are shaped by the key events that occurred during their lives and that these attitudes translate into product and brand preferences.\n\nDemographers, studying population change, disagree about precise dates for each generation. Dating is normally achieved by identifying population peaks or troughs, which can occur at different times in each country. For example, in Australia the post-war population boom peaked in 1960, while the peak occurred somewhat later in the USA and Europe, with most estimates converging on 1964. Accordingly, Australian Boomers are normally defined as those born between 1945–1960; while American and European Boomers are normally defined as those born between 1945–64. Thus, the generational segments and their dates discussed here must be taken as approximations only.\n\nThe primary generational segments identified by marketers are:\n\n\nCultural segmentation is used to classify markets according to cultural origin. Culture is a major dimension of consumer behaviour and can be used to enhance customer insight and as a component of predictive models. Cultural segmentation enables appropriate communications to be crafted to particular cultural communities. Cultural segmentation can be applied to existing customer data to measure market penetration in key cultural segments by product, brand, channel as well as traditional measures of recency, frequency, and monetary value. These benchmarks form an important evidence-base to guide strategic direction and tactical campaign activity, allowing engagement trends to be monitored over time.\n\nCultural segmentation can be combined with other bases, especially geographics so that segments are mapped according to state, region, suburb, and neighborhood. This provides a geographical market view of population proportions and may be of benefit in selecting appropriately located premises, determining territory boundaries and local marketing activities.\n\nCensus data is a valuable source of cultural data but cannot meaningfully be applied to individuals. Name analysis (onomastics) is the most reliable and efficient means of describing the cultural origin of individuals. The accuracy of using name analysis as a surrogate for cultural background in Australia is 80–85%, after allowing for female name changes due to marriage, social or political reasons or colonial influence. The extent of name data coverage means a user will code a minimum of 99 percent of individuals with their most likely ancestral origin.\n\nOnline market segmentation is similar to the traditional approaches in that the segments should be identifiable, substantial, accessible, stable, differentiable and actionable. Customer data stored in online data management systems such as a CRM or DMP enables the analysis and segmentation of consumers across a diverse set of attributes. Forsyth et al., in an article 'Internet research' grouped current active online consumers into six groups: Simplifiers, Surfers, Bargainers, Connectors, Routiners, and Sportsters. The segments differ regarding four customers' behaviours, namely:\n\n\nFor example, \"Simplifiers\" make over 50 percent of all online transactions. Their main characteristic is that they need easy (one-click) access to information and products as well as easy and quickly available service regarding products. Amazon.com is a good example of a company who created an online environment for Simplifiers. They also 'dislike unsolicited e-mail, uninviting chat rooms, pop-up windows intended to encourage impulse buys, and other features that complicate their on- and off-line experience'. Surfers like to spend a lot of time online, thus companies must have a variety of products to offer and constant update, \"Bargainers\" are looking for the best price, Connectors like to relate to others, \"Routiners\" want content and \"Sportsters\" like sport and entertainment sites.\n\nAnother major decision in developing the segmentation strategy is the selection of market segments that will become the focus of special attention (known as \"target markets\"). The marketer faces a number of important decisions:\n\n\nWhen a marketer enters more than one market, the segments are often labeled the \"primary target market\", \"secondary target market.\" The primary market is the target market selected as the main focus of marketing activities. The secondary target market is likely to be a segment that is not as large as the primary market, but has growth potential. Alternatively, the secondary target group might consist of a small number of purchasers that account for a relatively high proportion of sales volume perhaps due to purchase value or purchase frequency.\n\nIn terms of evaluating markets, three core considerations are essential:\n\n\nThere are no formulas for evaluating the attractiveness of market segments and a good deal of judgment must be exercised. Nevertheless, a number of considerations can be used to assist in evaluating market segments for overall attractiveness. The following lists a series of questions that can be asked.\n\n\n\n\nWhen the segments have been determined and separate offers developed for each of the core segments, the marketer's next task is to design a marketing program (also known as the marketing mix) that will resonate with the target market or markets. Developing the marketing program requires a deep knowledge of key market segment's purchasing habits, their preferred retail outlet, their media habits and their price sensitivity. The marketing program for each brand or product should be based on the understanding of the target market (or target markets) revealed in the market profile.\n\nPositioning is the final step in the S-T-P planning approach; Segmentation→ Targeting → Positioning; a core framework for developing marketing plans and setting objectives. Positioning refers to decisions about how to present the offer in a way that resonates with the target market. During the research and analysis that forms the central part of segmentation and targeting, the marketer will have gained insights into what motivates consumers to purchase a product or brand. These insights will form part of the positioning strategy.\n\nAccording to advertising guru, David Ogilvy, \"Positioning is the act of designing the company’s offering and image to occupy a distinctive place in the minds of the target market. The goal is to locate the brand in the minds of consumers to maximise the potential benefit to the firm. A good brand positioning helps guide marketing strategy by clarifying the brand’s essence, what goals it helps the consumer achieve, and how it does so in a unique way.\"\n\nThe technique known as perceptual mapping is often used to understand consumers' mental representations of brands within a given category. Traditionally two variables (often, but not necessarily, price and quality) are used to construct the map. A sample of people in the target market are asked to explain where they would place various brands in terms of the selected variables. Results are averaged across all respondents, and results are plotted on a graph, as illustrated in the figure. The final map indicates how the \"average\" member of the population views the brand that makes up a category and how each of the brands relates to other brands within the same category. While perceptual maps with two dimensions are common, multi-dimensional maps are also used.\n\nThere are a number of different approaches to positioning:\n\n\nSegmenting business markets is more straightforward than segmenting consumer markets. Businesses may be segmented according to industry, business size, business location, turnover, number of employees, company technology, purchasing approach or any other relevant variables. The most widely used segmentation bases used in business to business markets are geographics, and firmographics.\n\nThe most-widely used bases for segmenting business markets are:\n\nThe basic approach to retention-based segmentation is that a company tags each of its active customers on four axes:\n\n\nThis analysis of customer lifecycles is usually included in the growth plan of a business to determine which tactics to implement to retain or let go of customers. Tactics commonly used range from providing special customer discounts to sending customers communications that reinforce the value proposition of the given service.\n\nThe choice of an appropriate statistical method for the segmentation depends on a number of factors including, the broad approach (a-priori or post-hoc), the availability of data, time constraints, the marketer's skill level and resources.\n\nA priori research occurs when \"a theoretical framework is developed before the research is conducted\". In other words, the marketer has an idea about whether to segment the market geographically, demographically, psychographically or behaviourally before undertaking any research. For example, a marketer might want to learn more about the motivations and demographics of light and moderate users in an effort to understand what tactics could be used to increase usage rates. In this case, the target variable is known – the marketer has already segmented using a behavioural variable – user status. The next step would be to collect and analyze attitudinal data for light and moderate users. The typical analysis includes simple cross-tabulations, frequency distributions and occasionally logistic regression or one of a number of proprietary methods.\n\nThe main disadvantage of a-priori segmentation is that it does not explore other opportunities to identify market segments that could be more meaningful.\n\nIn contrast, post-hoc segmentation makes no assumptions about the optimal theoretical framework. Instead, the analyst's role is to determine the segments that are the most meaningful for a given marketing problem or situation. In this approach, the empirical data drives the segmentation selection. Analysts typically employ some type of clustering analysis or structural equation modeling to identify segments within the data. The figure alongside illustrates how segments might be formed using clustering; however, note that this diagram only uses two variables, while in practice clustering employs a large number of variables. Post-hoc segmentation relies on access to rich datasets, usually with a very large number of cases and uses sophisticated algorithms to identify segments.\n\nMarketers often engage commercial research firms or consultancies to carry out segmentation analysis, especially if they lack the statistical skills to undertake the analysis. Some segmentation, especially post-hoc analysis, relies on sophisticated statistical analysis.\n\nCommon statistical approaches and techniques used in segmentation analysis include:\n\n\nMarketers use a variety of data sources for segmentation studies and market profiling. Typical sources of information include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51231802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51231802", "title": "Martin Oduor-Otieno", "text": "Martin Oduor-Otieno\n\nMartin Luke Oduor-Otieno is an accountant, businessman, entrepreneur and former bank executive in Kenya. He is the current chairman and CEO of \"Leadership Group Limited\", a Nairobi-based consulting firm, that he founded. He previously served as the Group CEO of Kenya Commercial Bank Group, from 2007 until 2012.\n\nHe was born in Kenya, circa 1956. Oduor-Otieno holds a Bachelor of Commerce in finance and accounting from the University of Nairobi. He also holds an Executive MBA, awarded jointly by the Eastern and Southern African Management Institute and Maastricht Business School. He attended upper management courses at Harvard Business School. He is a Certified Public Accountant and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Business Leadership by KCA University in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\nIn 1999, he was one of the individuals selected by President Daniel Arap Moi, to \"turn the economy around\". From 2007 until 2012, he served as group chief executive of Kenya Commercial Bank Group, Kenya's largest banking conglomerate. Between May 2013 until March 2016, he served at Deloitte Kenya, as a senior advisor in the financial services division. In March 2016, he left Deloitte and took up an appointment as a non-executive director of Standard Bank Group, the financial services conglomerate based in South Africa. In August 2016 he founded Leadership Group Limited, a firm that offers coaching to businesses and individuals in the areas of leadership, governance, strategy and execution.\n\nOduor-Otieno has in the past, or currently serves on the boards of the following businesses:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56100356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56100356", "title": "Nashville Fairgrounds Stadium", "text": "Nashville Fairgrounds Stadium\n\nThe Nashville Fairgrounds Stadium is a planned soccer-specific stadium near the historic Nashville Fairgrounds in Nashville, Tennessee. It will be the home of the Nashville MLS team, a future Major League Soccer expansion franchise that will begin play in 2020.\n\nThe construction is expected to cost $275 million. Billionaire businessman John Ingram is expected to pay \"$25 million up front and $9 million a year over 30 years to help retire Metro’s annual $13 million debt for the $225 bond issuance.\" Additionally, the Nashville Fairgrounds will be renovated for an additional $40 million.\n\nAs part of the public-private partnership, Mayor Megan Barry vowed to give \"10 acres of city-owned fairgrounds land for a mix-use development next to the stadium\" to the developers, including Ingram.\n\nIn November 2017, Metro Nashville was sued by a group called Save Our Fairgrounds on the basis that the construction could disrupt the Tennessee State Fair, the Nashville Flea Market, and Fairgrounds Speedway racing activities. The lawsuit was dismissed by Chancellor Ellen Hobbs Lyle in December 2017.\n"}
{"id": "24734879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24734879", "title": "North Bay Growth &amp; Innovation Forum", "text": "North Bay Growth &amp; Innovation Forum\n\nNorth Bay Growth & Innovation Forum is a program created by the city of Santa Rosa, California, and the city's chamber of commerce. The goal of the program is to enable the creation and growth of new businesses in the Santa Rosa area through education, mentoring and exposure to capital sources. The program matches angel or venture capital investors with aspiring entrepreneurs and/or existing businesses from start-up to mid-size.\n\nAt each forum topics may include fund raising, developing business plans and how best to leverage social media.\n\nThe NBGIF series has won regional, statewide and national awards.\n\nIn 2006, realizing that the best strategy for business growth was to encourage “home grown” companies, the City and Chamber partnered on beta-testing the Venture Communities model created by Golden Capital Network, producing the first forum in October 2006. Three subsequent events were produced with Golden Capital’s assistance, and in the fall of 2008, the City and Chamber left the Golden Capital Network nest and transformed the Venture Communities model into the North Bay Growth & Innovation Forum as it is today.\n\nSince late 2008, Forum events have included: \n\nPanelists at each event award \"Best in Show\" to the most promising presenting companies. Past \"Best in Show\" winners have included Seasons Studios, Mosaic Assist, True2Life Apparel and Aethos Technologies.\n\n\nOver 70 companies have participated in the program and have received more than $25 million in funding as a result. A few notable companies:\n\nNBGIF provides access to experts at no charge prior to each event to assist companies in strengthening their business plans and their presentation skills. One-on-one and group training and coaching are provided well in advance of the Forum, ensuring that the participants are well prepared to present their businesses in front of a panel of prospective investors. Participants and the audience get the benefit of feedback from experienced entrepreneurs and investors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15758990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15758990", "title": "Open door policy (business)", "text": "Open door policy (business)\n\nAn open door policy (as related to the business and corporate fields) is a communication policy in which a manager, CEO, MD, president or supervisor leaves their office door \"open\" in order to encourage openness and transparency with the employees of that company. As the term implies, employees are encouraged to stop by whenever they feel the need to meet and ask questions, discuss suggestions, and address problems or concerns with management. An open door policy is typically intended to foster an environment of collaboration, high performance, and mutual respect between upper management and employees. \n\nOpen door policies exist to encourage employees to offer suggestions and ideas, provide or solicit feedback, seek personal or professional counsel, or address concerns within the company. The policy establishes an environment of trust and mutual respect between the employer and employee. The practice is viewed as a morale booster by letting employees feel as if they are able to openly speak with their employer about issues face-to-face, rather than through e-mail or voicemail. In essence, an open door policy serves to empower employees, knowing that their voice is heard and issues are quickly addressed and resolved. Trust in the company tends to improve and grow, when employees understand that they are welcome to confide in senior management, when immediate supervisors are unavailable.\n\nWhile open door policies intend to encourage and instill a sense of transparency and openness, some employees hesitate to speak their mind or be honest, for fear of intimidation, criticism, and censure. Management personnel may tend to communicate the willingness to hear suggestions, while belittling the suggestions when unaccompanied by solutions. \n\nOpen door policies have also been seen as a way for companies to discourage the formation of labor unions. Formal, written policies may encourage openness, however, the response received in attempts to engage are often seen as threats to the authority or management style of the individual working in a supervisory or management capacity. The policy, in essence, allows employees to forgo meeting with their immediate supervisors, choosing rather to engage in communication with their senior managers to discuss their employment or personal issues. \n\nA process of open communication and transparency allows employees to bypass their supervisors to engage with senior management. This may inadvertently lead to tension and strife between employees and middle management. Supervisors may either see this as an implication that they are the primary issue of concern, or they may feel threatened, suspecting the employee of undermining him in an attempt to cause problems between him and senior management.\n\nIn other examples, commonly in college dorms, an open door policy means everyone's door must remain open. The idea remains the same, that having the door(s) open will make for a more comfortable and social school or work environment. \n\nGovernment officials at the local, state, and federal level often implement an open door policy for the purpose of meeting with constituents. In Salt Lake City, mayor Ralph Becker maintains an open door policy every Wednesday to meet with residents one-on-one to discuss issues, concerns, and suggestions involving the city. The Democratic Caucus of Orange County, New York has maintained an open door policy for over ten years, where all individuals, regardless of political affiliation are welcome to attend the meeting. In 2011, in an effort to introduce a more open and transparent government, Governor Andrew Cuomo of New York extended an open door policy to members of the public. A lottery was introduced that allowed for 300 New Yorkers to visit Gracie Mansion following the inaugural festivities. The following week, for the first time in the history of the State of New York, a lottery was held to open the State of the State Address to additional members of the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "48598090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48598090", "title": "Patricia Quintana", "text": "Patricia Quintana\n\nPatricia Quintana Fernández (28 October 1946 – 26 November 2018), was a Mexican chef, writer, businesswoman and professor. She was a recognized international cook and expert in Mexican gastronomy.\n\nPatricia Quintana was a specialist in Mexican regional cooking who was born in México and studied abroad in Canada, Switzerland and France — later returning to Mexico as a recognized chef. She studied and taught ancestral Mexican cuisine mixed with the classical cuisine. She was the owner of the restaurant Izote in City of Mexico from 2001 to the 2013, but resigned to start a banquet catering company.\n\nShe was the creator of the brand of dressings \"Gavilla\", a brand under which today has about 16 products. She directed the menus that were served aboard Mexican airlines.\n\nShe collaborated in many television programs and wrote articles about cuisine for several newspapers and magazines, both domestic and international.\n\nShe was the mother of Patricio Pasquel.\n\nPatricia passed away at the age of 72, on Nov 26 2018 of natural causes.\n\nShe was culinary ambassador of her country for the world, distinction that awarded her the Office of Tourism and the Association of Restaurants of Mexico.\n\nShe received the Silver Spoon Prize awarded by the magazine \"Food Arts\"; the Prize of the Gold Laurel by part of the Association Mexico Spain, and the Prize to Employer Restaurantero of the Year, delivered by the CANIRAC in Mexico.\n\nShe wrote more than twenty-five books that are references for gastronomic Mexicans.\n"}
{"id": "45061210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45061210", "title": "Peter Souter", "text": "Peter Souter\n\nPeter Souter (born 1962) is the chairman and chief creative officer of TBWA London and former executive creative director of Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO. \n\nDuring his career as an advertising creative, Souter created a very large number of campaigns.\n\nPeter Souter is also a writer, and has written plays for theatre and radio, including the screenplay for ITV's television drama \"Married Single Other\".\n\nSouter began his career in advertising as a copywriter at Abbott Mead Vickers BBDO in 1991, where he worked alongside Paul Brazier for 4 years. He then moved on to become deputy creative director in 1995, then executive creative director in 1997, taking over for David Abbott. In 2005 he worked on the 'Make Poverty History' campaign, which he said was the work of which he is most proud.\n\nSouter has written plays for radio, theatre and television. His radio plays for BBC Radio 4 include \"Puddle\", \"Goldfish Girl\", \"Stream River Sea\", \"That's Mine, This is Yours\", \"What Love Sounds like\" and \"\".\n\nSouter's television drama, \"Married Single Other\", is a series based on the lives of group of people who are either married, single or \"other\", other being defined as in a relationship. It was aired on ITV in February 2010.\n\nFor theatre, Souter wrote the play \"Hello/Goodbye\", which was sold out at the Hampstead Theatre in its first run in 2013, and is playing again from 21 January to 28 February 2015.\n"}
{"id": "12868778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12868778", "title": "Prestige Bulletin", "text": "Prestige Bulletin\n\nPrestige Bulletin is a financial journal published monthly in South Africa since 1989.\n\nIt covers investments, financial markets, personal finance, tax planning and entrepreneurship. \"Prestige Bulletin\" aims to be objective and does not promote specific investment products or accept advertising.\n\n"}
{"id": "22157028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22157028", "title": "Pálmi Jónsson", "text": "Pálmi Jónsson\n\nPálmi Jónsson (June 3, 1923 – April 4, 1991) was an Icelandic businessman and entrepreneur born in Hofsós, Iceland who founded the large Icelandic supermarket chain Hagkaup, and pioneered the inception of Kringlan the first indoor shopping mall in Iceland. He was the father of Sigurður Gísli, Jón, Ingibjörg Stefanía Pálmadóttir, and Lilja Sigurlína, who collectively inherited Hagkaup when he died.\n"}
{"id": "54589057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54589057", "title": "Raul Henrique Srour", "text": "Raul Henrique Srour\n\nRaul Henrique Srour (born July 1st, 1961) is a Brazilian businessman who headed a criminal ring in Operation Car Wash, a corruption scandal.\n"}
{"id": "17280597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17280597", "title": "Reassignment centers", "text": "Reassignment centers\n\nReassignment centers are holding facilities for the New York City Department of Education, where more than 600 teachers accused of misconduct have been paid to work full-time doing nothing for months or years at a time while awaiting resolution of their cases. Among teachers they are referred to as rubber rooms. The city has 13 reassignment centers.\n\nIn \"The Rubber Room\", it is also claimed that the city's teacher union, the United Federation of Teachers, neglects to provide proper representation to teachers assigned to reassignment centers. Exonerated teachers often become absent teacher reserve teachers.\n\nThe Department of Education blamed union rules that made it difficult to fire teachers. Some teachers assert that they have been sent to reassignment centers because they are whistleblowers against administrators for falsifying student test results or publicly challenging former Schools Chancellor Joel Klein. Three Department of Education employees speaking to the UFT's \"New York Teacher,\" confirmed teachers' allegations that Fordham High School for the Arts principal Iris Blige filed allegations against the school's UFT chapter leader, to place her in a reassignment center, in order to intimidate her and to set an example to the school's staff.\n\nReassignment centers arose as a budgetary concern in bureaucratic studies and press coverage in Spring 2008, and cost the city more than $65 million per year in labor expenses. In April, 2010, the city and teachers' union reached an agreement to end the practice. This agreement came in the midst of the first public presentation of a documentary on the centers.\n\nSince the rubber room agreement, the only substantive change has been that there are no longer large rooms filled with reassigned teachers. Teachers are typically reassigned within their own schools, or to other Department of Education buildings throughout the city. Although teachers are now being charged more quickly, it still takes several years to complete the hearing process and for the arbitrator to render a decision. Many teachers are subsequently brought up on \"3020-a\" charges, which refer to the section of the New York State education law dealing with the discipline of tenured teachers. Unlike any other school district in New York State, no independent panel must vote to prefer charges against a tenured teacher in New York City. The 3020-a trial is held before an independent arbitrator, who is paid by the New York State Education Department but is selected jointly by the New York City Department of Education and the United Federation of Teachers.\n\nIn June 2012 it was revealed that the New York State Education Department had not paid its arbitrators for several years, and collectively owed them millions of dollars for cases they had completed, or were in the process of hearing. In frustration, ten of the 24 arbitrators on the New York City panel have quit, while the remaining 14 refuse to hear any testimony or issue any decisions until their back wages have been paid in full. This could take several more years to negotiate, further exacerbating the backlog of reassigned teachers.\n\nFilmmakers Jeremy Garrett and Justin Cegnar of Five Boroughs Productions produced an independent documentary on the centers, called \"The Rubber Room\", which was the basis for a segment on the radio program \"This American Life\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3481903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3481903", "title": "Richard C. du Pont Memorial Trophy", "text": "Richard C. du Pont Memorial Trophy\n\nThe Richard C. du Pont Memorial Trophy is an American competitive award given annually by the Soaring Society of America to the U.S. National Open Class Soaring Champion, as determined at the annual U.S. National Open Class Soaring Championship. \n\nFirst awarded in 1930 as the \"Edward S. Evans Trophy,\" the current trophy was donated to the Soaring Society of America in 1947 by Mrs. Allaire du Pont in memory of her husband, Richard C. du Pont, U.S. National Soaring Champion in 1934, 1935 and 1937 who died in the crash of an experimental military glider on September 11, 1943. \n\n"}
{"id": "1319150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1319150", "title": "Robert Friedland", "text": "Robert Friedland\n\nRobert Martin Friedland (August 18, 1950) is an American-Canadian international financier and major player in the junior mining industry. Since the early 1980s, he has specialized in securing funding for the exploration and development of mineral and energy resources and advanced technology ventures. He is the founder and Chairman of his private, family-owned firm, Ivanhoe Capital Corporation, which is active in global capital markets and has an established focus on emerging markets. Friedland is the founder of Ivanhoe Minesa Canadian public company listed on the New York, NASDAQ and Toronto exchanges.\n\nRobert Friedland was born in Chicago, Illinois, the eldest of three children born to immigrant parents Ilona (née Muller) and Albert Friedland. Friedland's father survived three years in Auschwitz while his mother worked as a forced laborer during the Holocaust. He was expelled from Bowdoin College in 1970 after being arrested by federal authorities for the possession of an estimated $100,000 worth of LSD, a crime for which he served two years in federal prison. He graduated in 1974 from Reed College, Oregon, USA, with a political science degree. His senior year at Reed, Friedland was student body president. During his time at Reed he met Steve Jobs the co-founder of Apple, with whom he shared an interest in Eastern spirituality. At the time, Friedland served as the caretaker of an apple farm south of Portland that was owned by his millionaire uncle Marcel Muller and Jobs would come on the weekends and help with the apple orchard, which served as the inspiration for the name of his company, Apple Inc. Friedland turned the orchard into a commune called All One Farm.\n\nFriedland operates Ivanhoe Capital from its corporate headquarters in Singaporea location that has facilitated his predominant business focus on the Asia Pacific region during the past 20 years.\n\nFriedland was Chief Executive Officer of Canada-based Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (IVN: TSX, NYSE & NASDAQ), which he founded in 1994 and led to a successful initial public offering on the Toronto Stock Exchange in 1996. He served as Chairman, and later as Executive Chairman, until 2011. Exploration by Ivanhoe Mines since 2000 has discovered a chain of copper, gold and silver deposits at Oyu Tolgoi (Turquoise Hill) in Mongolia’s South Gobi region. The first phase of what is independently projected to be one of the world’s largest porphyry copper and gold mines is under construction at Oyu Tolgoi and is expected to begin commercial production in 2013. Ivanhoe Mines has discovered copper deposits in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Ivanhoe Mines also has substantial interests in SouthGobi Resources, Ivanhoe Australia and Altynalmas Gold.\n\nFriedland was chairman of Galactic Resources which operated Summitville mine, the site of the United States' worst cyanide release and mine bankruptcy and Superfund site. This mine closed in 1990 but continues to affect the region. It is estimated that at least $120 million will be required to clean up the bankrupt Galactic Resources mining site, which has damaged 17 miles of river. The former environmental manager of the facility has been indicted for intentionally dumping lead and cyanide directly into streams.\n\nCopper mines operated by Ivanhoe in Myanmar have recently come under scrutiny as environmental degradation, illicit company practices, as well as inside dealings with the ruling military junta have created ethical concerns.\n\nFriedland's other corporate leadership positions have included:\n\nBy 2005, Friedland had staked a claim larger than Greece in Mongolia's Gobi Desert, an area containing copper and gold at the Oyu Tolgoy, or Turquoise Hill, site that he claimed could be worth more than $100 billion. In October 2012 Sarah Armstrong, chief legal counsel of Southgobi Resources, was temporarily detained in Mongolia and prevented from leaving the country for several months due to allegations that company management had bribed Mongolian state officials. The allegations resulted in the shutdown and search of SouthGobi headquarters in Mongolia by a Mongolian anti-corruption agency. Robert Friedland had been trying to sell his major (57.6%) stake in Southgobi Resources, which owned a major coal mining license in Mongolia, to Chalco, a Chinese state-owned corporation. Mongolian popular opposition to majority ownership by foreign state-owned enterprises of companies in their mining industry spurred action against the Southgobi deal and caused the suspension of the company's mining license for several months in 2012. By May 2013 another chief financial officer at Southgobi Resources, Justin Capla who was previously questioned by Mongolian Anti Corruption Agency for bribing and money laundering actions case is being transferred to prosecution stage after 1 year of processing. The Southgobi Resources ltd. is owned by Rio Tinto corporation.\n\nRobert Friedland holds dual US and Canadian citizenships and is also a resident of Singapore. He and his wife Darlene are parents to three children. His son, Govind Friedland, is a geologist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1956968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1956968", "title": "Schedule (workplace)", "text": "Schedule (workplace)\n\nA schedule, often called a rota or roster, is a list of employees, and associated information e.g. location, working times, responsibilities for a given time period e.g. week, month or sports season. \n\nA schedule is necessary for the day-to-day operation of many businesses e.g. retail store, manufacturing facility and some offices. The process of creating a schedule is called scheduling. An effective workplace schedule balances the needs of stakeholders such as management, employees and customers.\n\nA \"daily\" schedule is usually ordered chronologically, which means the first employees working that day are listed at the top, followed by the employee who comes in next, etc. A \"weekly\" or \"monthly\" schedule is usually ordered alphabetically, employees being listed on the left hand side of a grid, with the days of the week on the top of the grid. In shift work, a schedule usually employs a recurring shift plan.\n\nA schedule is most often created by a manager. In larger operations, a human resources manager or scheduling specialist may be solely dedicated to creating and maintaining the schedule. A schedule by this definition is sometimes referred to as workflow.\n\nSoftware is often used to enable organizations to better manage staff scheduling. Organizations commonly use spreadsheet software or employee scheduling software to create and manage shifts, assignments, and employee preferences. For large organisations employee scheduling can be complex, and optimising this is framed as the Nurse scheduling problem in Operations Research. Advanced employee scheduling software also provides ways to connect with the staff, ask for their preferences and communicate the schedule to them.\n\nAn On call shift or On-call scheduling is a practice which requires employees to be available to be called onto last-minute shifts without pre-scheduling. In the United States, the practice has been opposed by labor rights groups as \"unfair and detrimental to employees.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56932101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56932101", "title": "Sir Thomas Dunlop, 3rd Baronet", "text": "Sir Thomas Dunlop, 3rd Baronet\n\nSir Thomas Dunlop, 3rd Baronet, OStJ (11 April 1912 – 18 August 1999) was a Scottish businessman. \n\nDunlop was educated at Kelvinside Academy, Craigflower Preparatory School, Shrewsbury School and St John's College, Cambridge. He qualified as a chartered accountant with McClelland Ker & Co and in 1938 became a partner in the family business, Thomas \nDunlop & Sons, Shipowners and Insurance Brokers, founded in 1851. He was the fourth generation. \n\nDuring the Second World War he served as a major with the Royal Signals in India and the United Kingdom. He returned to the family business and a succession of appointments in Glasgow.\n\nDuring the 1950s he served as a director of Glasgow & Clyde Shipowners' Association, vice president of the Royal Alfred Seafarers' Society, honorary agent of The Shipwrecked Fishermen and Mariners' Royal Benevolent Society and chairman of the Underwriters' Association of Glasgow.\n\nIn 1955, he became Deacon of the Incorporation of Bakers of Glasgow and a director of the Merchant's House. In the 1960s he served as chairman of the Trustee Savings Bank of Glasgow. Dunlop retired from the family business in 1986. \n\nIn March 1965 he was appointed as an Officer of the Order of St John.\n\nHe succeeded as the third Baronet on the death of his father in 1963. \n"}
{"id": "42559721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42559721", "title": "Stephen Saad", "text": "Stephen Saad\n\nStephen Bradley Saad (born June 1964) is a South African billionaire businessman, who is the founder and chief executive of Aspen Pharmacare (), the largest producer of generic medicines in Africa.\n\nStephen Bradley Saad was born in June 1964, and raised in Durban, South Africa. He attended the Durban High School in Durban. He graduated from the University of Natal, where he received a Bachelor of Commerce. He played rugby in Ireland and studied to become a chartered accountant.\n\nHe started his career at Quickmed, a prescription drug distribution company in black townships during apartheid. At the age of twenty-nine, he sold his share in Covan Zurich for US$3 million, thus becoming a millionaire.\n\nIn 1997, together with Gus Attridge, he co-founded Aspen Pharmacare, a public company traded on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. It has become the largest producer of generic medicines on the African continent. He serves as its chief executive and Gus Attridge as its deputy chief executive, and serves on its board of directors. In 2011, he was worth US$640 million, becoming one of Africa's 40 richest people. His stock portfolio went up 75% in 2013. He is now worth US$1.4 billion.\n\nAdditionally, he chairs the Sharks, a rugby union club in Durban. He also sits on the board of trustees of his alma mater, the Durban High School. In 2014, he was awarded an honorary doctorate from Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University for the positive role of Aspen in the city of Port Elizabeth \n\nHe resides in Durban and spends time at his private reserve in the Sabi Sand Game Reserve near the Kruger National Park. He is married with four daughters.\n"}
{"id": "39325396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39325396", "title": "Sukehide Kabayama", "text": "Sukehide Kabayama\n\nKabayama received a doctorate in civil law from Yale University in 1893. He was later the Chief of the Cabinet Secretariat of the Second Yamamoto administration (1923-1924). He became a member of the House of Peers in 1924.\n\n"}
{"id": "50462114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50462114", "title": "Ted Alfond", "text": "Ted Alfond\n\nTed Alfond (born 1945) is an American investor, philanthropist, and billionaire.\n\nTed Alfond was born to a Jewish family, the son of Dorothy (nee Levine) and Harold Alfond. His father founded the Dexter Shoe Company in 1958 and sold it in 1995 for $433 million of Berkshire Hathaway stock. When his father died in 2007, he left his shares in Berkshire Hathaway to his four children, Ted, Susan, Bill, and Peter, who are now all billionaires. In 1968, he graduated from Rollins College and after school, he worked as Executive Vice President of Dexter Shoe Company. He is a part owner of the Boston Red Sox\n\nAlfond is married to Barbara Lawrence whom he met in college; they have three children: John Alfond, Jenny Alfond Seeman, and Katharine Alfond Donahue.\n"}
{"id": "7619555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7619555", "title": "Thomas Beall Davis", "text": "Thomas Beall Davis\n\nThomas Beall Davis (April 25, 1828 – November 26, 1911), of Keyser, West Virginia, was an American Democratic politician.\n\nDavis was born in Baltimore, Maryland, the brother of Henry Gassaway Davis.\n\nIn 1876 Davis became a Member of West Virginia Democratic State Executive Committee, serving until 1907. He entered the West Virginia House of Delegates in 1899, representing Mineral County until 1900.\n\nDavis became a U.S. Representative from West Virginia's 2nd District in the 59th Congress, serving from 1905–1907 after the resignation of Republican Alston Dayton.\n\nHe died in Keyser and was buried at Maplewood Cemetery in Elkins. The town of Thomas, West Virginia is named for him.\n"}
{"id": "4341294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4341294", "title": "Transformational Government", "text": "Transformational Government\n\nTransformational Government is the use of computer-based information and communications technologies (ICT) to change the way governments work. The term is commonly used to describe a government reform strategy which attempts to radically change the way people understand government, especially those working within government. For example, it is often associated with a 'whole-of-government' viewpoint, which tries to foster cross-department collaboration and provide 'one-stop-shop' convenience in the delivery of services to citizens.\n\nThe term \"Transformational Government\" is usually used aspirationally, as denoting the 'highest' level of what e-government can achieve: \n\nDuring the last two decades, governments around the world have invested in ICT with the aim of increasing the quality and decreasing the cost of public services. But over that time, as even the least developed countries have moved to websites, e-services and e-Government strategies, it has become increasingly clear that e-Government has not delivered all the benefits that were hoped for it. One study found that 35% of e-government projects in developing countries resulted in total failures; and that 50% were partial failures.\n\nIn reaction to these poor outcomes, there has been a shift of perspective to 'Transformational Government', aiming beyond purely technical aspects of better enabling e-government processes towards addressing the cultural and organisational barriers which have hindered public service benefits realisation. Researchers have defined the rationale for Transformational Government as “the exploitation of e-government such that benefits can be realized”.\n\nIn 2010 the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) published a report which identified a wide range of common pitfalls which have hampered many governments in achieving significant impacts through their technology investments. However, OASIS also noted that:\n\nOASIS cites the UK and Australia as two of the leaders in this area:\n\nWithin the last decade, this new emphasis on a Transformational Government approach can be seen from a number of countries:\n\nThe early pioneering work by some governments is now being picked up and championed by a range of global organizations which offer support to governments in moving to a Transformational Government approach. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "52032511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52032511", "title": "Tuck Muntarbhorn", "text": "Tuck Muntarbhorn\n\nTuck Muntarbhorn (Thai: ทัก มันตาภรณ์; born January 1994 in Bangkok, Thailand) is a Thai artist, curator, contemporary art collector and entrepreneur based in London and Bangkok. Muntarbhorn is Thailand’s first contemporary art collector to produce and curate an art exhibition in the UK. He co-founded the international semi-couture brand Busardi in 2009 which presented collections during Paris Haute Couture Week. Busardi is Thailand’s first brand to show at Paris Haute Couture Week. Muntarbhorn views creativity as a spiritual practice: an awareness of thought, feeling, sensation, perception and intention; creating photography and sculpture to unite Eastern and Western symbols of spirituality to promote humanitarianism.\n"}
{"id": "47658343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47658343", "title": "Valarie Zeithaml", "text": "Valarie Zeithaml\n\nValarie Zeithaml is a marketing professor and author. She is the David S. Van Pelt Family Distinguished Professor of Marketing at Kenan-Flagler Business School, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Zeithml is an expert in the area of services marketing and service quality. In the 1980s Zeithaml and her co-authors developed SERVQUAL, a quality management framework for services. She was named a Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researcher in the report on \"The World's Most Influential Scientific Minds.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43487647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43487647", "title": "Vladimir Anisimoff", "text": "Vladimir Anisimoff\n\nVladìmir Anísimoff (born 14 March 1950 in Leningrad, USSR) is a Russian composer, scientist-physicist, philosopher-agnostic, writer, and philanthropist. He is grandnephew of revolutionary-menshevik Vasily Anisimoff and grandnephew of the famous Soviet pedagogue , who created the most popular in the young Soviet Russia ABC book in Russian language \"Read, write, count\" (24 editions) and the Russian language Textbook for primary school. Vladimir Anísimoff is famous as a scientist in the field of magnetic resonance. He developed method for the study of hidden internal surfaces, also he worked in the field of magnetic resonance imaging,in particular, in the study of membranes. Also he known as the author of rare duration and depth of the content of the Symphony \"FrognerPark\". This Symphony is similar to sculptural FrognerPark of Gustav Vigeland in Oslo and reflects a full range of feelings and emotions of a person during his life. \"Unicum Organum\" is his fundamental philosophical work in the understanding of human life as a continuous process of information processing by chemical processors of brain.\n\nVladimir Anisimoff was born on 14 March 1950 in Leningrad, USSR in the family of construction engineer Victor Anisimoff, the nephew of the famous Russian revolutionary Vasily Anisimoff. He received an excellent private and public education in the Soviet period in Russia.\nVladimir Anisimoff since childhood fond of music, and especially music composition, but on the advice of his parents, he first received higher education in engineering.\nSimultaneously, he studied choral conducting at the in Saint-Petersburg.\n\nVladimir Anisimoff started his research in the field of magnetic resonance in the early 1970s under the leadership of Professors Alexander Belonogov and Dmitry Dianov in Saint Petersburg State Electrotechnical University. In 1980 he received the degree of philosophy doctor (Saint Petersburg State Electrotechnical University and Saint Petersburg State University, opponent was professor of Saint Petersburg State University Vladimir Shutilov) and continued his studies in cooperation with academician Nikolay Emanuel. After the sudden death Emanuel in 1984 Vladimir Anisimoff continued his research under the guidance of academician . In 1989 presented Vladimir Anisimoff to the protection of the second (as it is accepted in Russia) doctoral thesis.\nFor 20 years Vladimir Anisimoff has published about 50 scientific works.\n\nDuring perestroika (1986–2000), Vladimir Anisimoff had to get a new education – broker on the currency exchange. In 1993 Vladimir Anisimoff organized a joint stock company \"New Company of Investors\" NCI corp.. It served production garages for population, and a full range of printing services.\nAt the same time, as the President of the NCI corp., Vladimir Anisimoff organized together with his friend the composer Alexander Sledin regular concerts on Ostrovsky square in St. Petersburg in Hall of , which played music of modern composers of Petersburg. The concerts were carried out regularly over four seasons from 1993 to 1997.\nSince 2005 Vladimir Anisimoff financially assisted the organization of many concerts of famous St. Petersburg teams and in Russia, and abroad. In particular, some time he supported the .\nIn the period from 2001 to 2003 the NCI corp. has undergone capture raid on the part of power structures of St. Petersburg. According opinion of composer Alexander Sledin \"It came under the control of people who had no connection either philanthropy or to the understanding of human relations between people\".\nFrom 2010 Vladimir Anisimoff retired and became the only composer and writer.\nIn 2009 Vladimir Anisimoff together with his son Dmitry Anisimov founded a new type of Philharmonic – the Virtual International Philharmonic.\n\nVladimir Anisimoff really began to study composition at the Seminar of Amateur composers in class of Johann Admoni in 1971, and completed his study with professor Joseph Pustylnik in 1980.\n\n\n\nAfter Vladimir Anisimoff has become known in their field scholar, in 2005 he decided to summarize their knowledge in philosophical work \"UNICUM ORGANUM\"\nHe has consistently promoted the ideas of Immanuel Kant about the unknowable essence of the matter.\n\nRecently since 2004 Vladimir Anisimoff was fond of writing funny stories. He finds himself in these simple stories about everything he sees around him.\n\n\nVladimir Anisimoff married (1975) on the cousin of the famous Soviet actress Marina Neyolova Nina Ivanova (Neyolova at her mother). He has two adult children. Son Dmitry Anisimov work mathematician in USI in the group of well-known scientist Kai Hormann and live in Lugano, Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "55197267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55197267", "title": "Zvi Gabbay", "text": "Zvi Gabbay\n\nDr. Zvi Gabbay is a partner and the Head of the Capital Markets and Financial Regulation Department at the Barnea & Co. law firm. Prior to this, Dr. Gabbay served as the Head of Enforcement and a member of management at the Israel Securities Authority (ISA).\n\nUpon completing his military service as an officer and combatant in the Nahal Infantry Brigade of the Israel Defense Forces, Gabbay studied law at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, earning his LL.B. He went on to receive his Master of Laws degree (LL.M) magna cum laude from Bar-Ilan University. Gabbay continued his studies in New York at Columbia University, where he earned a second Master of Laws degree summa cum laude in 2004.\n\nDuring his studies, Gabbay worked as a teaching assistant, as well as took part in the mediation clinic at Columbia University. After receiving his second LL.M., Gabbay continued his academic studies at Columbia University, earning a Doctor of Juridical Science (J.S.D.) in 2006. His research focused on alternatives to the criminal justice system, based on analyses of administrative law, disciplinary hearings, and restorative justice. \n\nGabbay served as a member of the committee assembled by former Minister of Justice Yaakov Neeman, and headed by then Deputy Attorney-General (criminal matters) Raz Nazari, which re-examined the issue of corporate criminal liability. The committee published a memorandum for the draft bill Criminal Liability for Corporations Law (2014). \n\nGabbay is currently a member of the board of governors of the International Institute for Restorative Practices (IIRP) Europe.\n\nGabbay is also a member of the board of governors of Amutat Kedem, an Israeli NPO that engages in conciliatory processes using family group conferences and restorative justice to help children at-risk youth, and youth offenders.\n\nDuring his residence in the United States, Gabbay engaged in volunteer work, mediating more than 50 cases in the various courts in New York. He also served as a moderator and mediator in the Community Impact Panel program, which convened at the Midtown Community Court in Manhattan. Gabbay volunteers as a mediator in business disputes in Israeli courts.\n\nGabbay began his legal career as a prosecutor in the Tel Aviv District Attorney’s Office (Criminal Department). There he managed all stages of criminal cases, from investigations, trials, and rulings through to appeals. Upon completing his studies in New York, Gabbay joined the international law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. During his tenure at the firm, Gabbay focused on representing private and business clients undergoing internal investigations, working in collaboration with the firm’s civil litigation department. He also engaged in pro bono representation of clients in civil and criminal courts.\n\nGabbay returned to Israel in 2008 and was appointed the Head of Enforcement and a member of management at the Israel Securities Authority (ISA). As Head of Enforcement, Gabbay handled the interfaces between the regulatory arm of the ISA and the enforcement powers it wields. In this context, he engaged in legislative initiatives and in forging new regulations. Gabbay was also part of the lean team that drove the enactment of the Administrative Enforcement Law.\n\nIn 2011, Gabbay left the ISA and became a partner at the Gornitzky and Co. law firm. Two years later, in 2013, he resigned and founded a boutique capital markets law firm: Adini, Berger, Gabbay. \n\nIn 2016, Gabbay joined Barnea & Co. as a partner and department head. Gabbay provides assistance and legal counsel to public companies and investment houses in Israel on issues involving the capital market and corporate governance. Gabbay also represents clients before various enforcement bodies in relation to investigations and administrative inquiries.\n\nGabbay was a guest lecturer at the College of Law and Business, where he taught a seminar on white collar crime. He has also lectured at both the School of Law at the College of Management and the School of Law at Columbia University on mediation and negotiations.\n\n\n"}
