{"id": "55427289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55427289", "title": "2017 SX17", "text": "2017 SX17\n\n is a member of the Apollo asteroids, which cross the orbit of Earth. Apollo's are the largest group of near-Earth objects with approximately 10 thousand known objects.\n\nIt orbits the Sun at a distance of 0.87–1.46 AU once every 15 months (459 days; semi-major axis of 1.16 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.26 and an inclination of 3° with respect to the ecliptic.\n\nThe body's observation arc begins with an observation made by Pan-STARRS on 24 September 2017, five days prior to its official first observation.\n\nThe object last approached the Earth on 2 October 2017, at 10:20 UT, at a distance of at a speed of . This distance corresponds to .\n\nAfter the 2017-flyby, it still has an exceptionally low minimum orbital intersection distance with Earth of , or 0.032 lunar distances (LD).\n\nBased on a generic magnitude-to-diameter conversion, measures between in diameter, for an absolute magnitude of 28.3, and an assumed albedo between 0.057 and 0.24, which represent typical values for carbonaceous and stony asteroids, respectively.\n\nAs of 2018, no rotational lightcurve has been obtained from photometric observations. The body's rotation period, pole and shape remain unknown.\n\nThis minor planet has neither been numbered nor named by the Minor Planet Center. \n\n"}
{"id": "16094953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16094953", "title": "Annual Review of Earth and Planetary Sciences", "text": "Annual Review of Earth and Planetary Sciences\n\nAnnual Review of Earth and Planetary Sciences is an annual peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Annual Reviews, which broadly covers Earth and planetary sciences, including geology, atmospheric sciences, climate, geophysics, environmental science, geological hazards, geodynamics, planet formation, and solar system origins. The editors-in-chief are Katherine H. Freeman (Pennsylvania State University) and Raymond Jeanloz (University of California, Berkeley).\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 10.188.\n\n"}
{"id": "6936195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6936195", "title": "Atmospheric Research", "text": "Atmospheric Research\n\nAtmospheric Research is a scientific journal dealing with the part of the atmosphere where meteorological events occur; intended for atmospheric scientists (such as meteorologists and climatologists), aerosol scientists, and hydrologists. It is a highly international journal with attention given to all processes extending from the earth surface to the tropopause, but special emphasis continues to be devoted to the physics of clouds and precipitation, i.e. atmospheric aerosols; microphysical processes; cloud dynamics and thermodynamics; numerical simulation of cloud processes; clouds and radiation; meso- and macrostructure of clouds and cloud systems, and weather modification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8868788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8868788", "title": "Bernardo Carpio", "text": "Bernardo Carpio\n\nBernardo Carpio is a legendary figure in Philippine mythology who is said to be the cause of earthquakes. There are numerous versions of this tale. Some versions say Bernardo Carpio is a giant, as supported by the enormous footsteps he has reputedly left behind in the mountains of Montalban. Others say he was the size of an ordinary man. Accounts of the stories have pre-colonial origins, but the name of the hero was Hispanized during the Spanish colonization. The original name of the hero has been lost in time. All versions of the story agree that Bernardo Carpio had a strength that was similar to that of many strong men-heroes in Asian epics, such as Lam-ang.\n\nThe basic form of the legend is that Bernardo Carpio, a being of great strength, is trapped in between two great rocks in the Mountains of Montalban.\n\nSome versions say he is keeping the mountains from crashing into each other (similar to the Greek titan Atlas holding up the sky), and some versions say he is trapped and trying to break free. When Bernardo Carpio shrugs his shoulder, an earthquake occurs.\n\nAccording to one version of the tale, Bernardo Carpio was a son of \"Infante\" Jimena and Don Sancho Díaz of Cerdenia. The \"Infante\" was cloistered by her brother King Alfonso, who at that time was very powerful, because of her forbidden love with Don Sancho. Don Sancho was incarcerated, and his eyes were to be plucked out. Bernardo was left to the care of Don Rubio, who divulged the love affair.\n\nThe Spanish hired a local \"engkantado\" (shaman) and conspired to trap Carpio through supernatural means. Calling for a parley, they lured him towards a cave in the mountains of Montalban. The engkantado used his \"agimat\" (talisman), and Bernardo Carpio was caught between two boulders which the shaman had caused to grind each other. The legend says he was not killed, but was trapped between these two boulders, unable to escape because the talisman's power was as great as his own strength.\n\nWhen Carpio's allies arrived at the cave to rescue him, they were blocked from the cave by a series of cave ins that killed several of them.\n\nPeople soon surmised that whenever an earthquake happens, it is caused by Bernardo Carpio trying to free himself from the mountain.\n\nThe same version says that Bernardo Carpio demonstrated unusual strength, even as a child. As a result, the parish priest who baptised him suggested that his parents name him after the Spanish legendary hero Bernardo del Carpio. This became a foreshadowing of the legendary life Carpio himself would lead.\n\nDamiana Eugenio was able to find and document a 1940 compilation of tales detailing the legend of Bernardo Carpio. It specifically says that:\n\n\"\"Bernardo Carpio is considered the savior of the Filipinos against national oppression and enslavement\".\"\n\nAccording to that particular telling of the tale, when the last link on the chains binding Carpio is broken, \"the enslavement and oppression of the Filipino race will be replaced with freedom and happiness.\" While this belief apparently referred to the Spanish Occupation of the Philippines and the later occupation by the Philippines by the U.S. and by Japan in World War II, the legend has continued to be told this way, an apparent reference to freedom from poverty rather than foreign domination.\n\nFilipino revolutionary heroes Jose Rizal and Andres Bonifacio are said to have paid homage to the Bernardo Carpio legend - the former by making a pilgrimage to Montalban, and the latter making the caves of Montalban the secret meeting place for the Katipunan movement.\n\nThe tale of Bernardo Carpio can be considered an etiological myth which explains the occurrence of earthquakes. The area which hosts the legend of Bernardo Carpio is also home to the West Valley Fault System (formerly called the Marikina Valley Fault System).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31080955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31080955", "title": "Charles Guillou", "text": "Charles Guillou\n\nCharles Fleury Bien-aimé Guilloû (July 14, 1813 – January 2, 1899) was an American military physician. He served on a major exploring expedition that included both scientific discoveries and controversy, and two historic diplomatic missions. He ran a hospital in the Hawaiian Islands, before returning to the US.\n\nCharles Fleury Bien-aimé Guilloû was born in Philadelphia on July 26, 1813.\nHis father was Victor Gabriel Guilloû (1776–1841), who had escaped from the French Revolution and fought in the Haitian Revolution. His father introduced him to Marquis de Lafayette when he visited the US in 1824. Guilloû attended a military academy and then graduated from the University of Pennsylvania medical school in 1836. During 1836, he visited his father, who had moved to Cuba to start a sugar plantation after running a dance academy in Philadelphia.\n\nOn February 9, 1837, Guilloû was appointed assistant surgeon for the in the United States Navy. It was one of the ships sent on the United States Exploring Expedition commanded by Charles Wilkes, although it was 1838 before the squadron could depart. After a dispute with Cadwalader Ringgold, he was transferred to the . He befriended young midshipman William Reynolds, whose journals provide a non-official version of the events of the voyage. In December 1839, the squadron headed farther south, and in January 1840 provided the first sighting of the continent of Antarctica by a US Navy ship. Guilloû provided a sketch when the \"Peacock\" was stuck in the ice. They returned to Sydney for repairs, before resuming exploration.\n\nWilkes' imperious manner included dismissing many of the officers, leading to further low morale. Guilloû attended to sailors injured by frequent floggings. In September 1841 the squadron arrived in Honolulu in the Hawaiian Islands to spend the winter. The three-year planned time of the voyage was over, and several members requested to leave. Wilkes insisted on reading all journals and letters. When Guilloû removed some pages from his journal, saying they were of a personal nature, Wilkes suspended Guilloû and prepared charges for various offenses. After the \"Peacock\" was lost in July 1841 while exploring the Pacific Northwest, Guilloû was shuttled between various ships, officially under arrest.\n\nOn his return in 1842, Guilloû helped organize the Navy's Bureau of Medicine and Surgery under William P. C. Barton. He was sentenced to dismissal at the court-martial trials in 1843 related to the Wilkes expedition, but President John Tyler reduced the sentence to a year suspension. Guilloû filed seven charges against Wilkes, including questioning his claim to have \"discovered\" Antarctica. Wilkes was found guilty of only one: illegal punishment. Wilkes was sentenced to a public reprimand.\n\nAfter being reinstated, Guilloû served on the , under Commodore James Biddle. In June 1845 the ship was sent to Guangzhou (then known as Canton), on a diplomatic mission with the first treaty between the US and China. It then visited Japan. When returning via Honolulu, at the outbreak of the Mexican–American War, the \"Columbus\" was recalled to Monterey, California and the ranch of William A. Richardson. Guilloû met John Sutter, and spoke French with the Swiss native on July 4, 1847; a year later the discovery of gold near Sutter's mill sparked the California Gold Rush. On August 28, 1847 he was promoted to the rank of full Navy Surgeon. The \"Columbus\" returned to Hampton Roads in March 1848.\nGuilloû was then assigned to the which took another diplomatic trip, this one to Europe. On July 30, 1849, while at Gaeta, the multilingual Guilloû acted as interpreter for a visit to the palace of King Ferdinand II by local diplomat John Rowan. They also met Cardinal Giacomo Antonelli, who was secretary of state for the Papal States. On July 31 they visited Pope Pius IX, and invited him and Ferdinand to visit the ship, with Guilloû again interpreting.\n\nOn August 1, Ferdinand and Pius had their formal visit to the \"Constitution\". Pius began to feel ill, and Guilloû treated him for seasickness. The grateful pope delivered rosaries to the Catholics on the ship; Guilloû received inscribed prayerbooks and a medallion, along with a plenary indulgence. The visit, however, proved to be a diplomatic embarrassment for the US, which was officially neutral in the Italian revolutions that were happening at the time. A visit to a navy ship was considered equivalent to stepping on \"US territory\", which had never been done before by a pope. Captain John Gwinn died before he could be formally reprimanded.\n\nOn his return, Guilloû was stationed at the Brooklyn Naval Shipyard from 1852 to 1854. He married Dinah Postlethwaite (1815–85), daughter of Samuel Postlethwaite (1772–1824) from Natchez, Mississippi in September 1852. They had one daughter, Margaret Acelie Guilloû (born September 13, 1853), who married George Alfred Blackmore. They also adopted Eloise (\"Polly\") Thibault.\n\nGuilloû sailed to Honolulu in 1854. He first tried to establish a hospital with Robert W. Wood, but that failed.\nActive in Freemasonry, he helped reactivate Lodge Le Progrés de l'Océanie in Honolulu that had been chartered from the French organization.\n\nHe was an early member of the Hawaiian Agricultural Society.\nHe evidently decided to stick to medicine, since in 1856, he was one of the founding members of the Hawaiian Medical Society, with other prominent doctors such as Gerrit P. Judd and Thomas Charles Byde Rooke.\n\nIn 1857 Darius A. Ogden, the American Consul to the Kingdom of Hawaii, appointed him as the Honolulu U.S. Seamen's Hospital physician in 1857.\n\nOn April 23, 1858, he gave a speech proposing to improve health care for native Hawaiians by opening a hospital.\nAlthough the plan would later be adopted, the resulting Queen's Hospital (now The Queen's Medical Center) passed up Guilloû and appointed German William Hillebrand to head the new institution.\nGuilloû was appointed by Victor Emmanuel II of Italy as the Consul of Italy to the Kingdom of Hawaii while he was there.\n\nThe State Department suspected overcharging for the seaman's hospital.\nCommander William E. Hunt in of the was sent to investigate.\nJames W. Borden, the new United States Minister to Hawaii, published letters in the \"Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" newspaper of Henry Martyn Whitney with accusations against Guilloû and Abner Pratt, the American Consul who replaced Ogden.\n\nPratt had already headed back to Marshall, Michigan where he built a majestic mansion, while the \"Levant\" was lost at sea. Although Pratt was asked to return the funds, the American Civil War caused the government to never pursue the case. By 1861, the Seamen's Hospital was run by Seth Porter Ford (1817–1866).\n\nYoung Prince Albert Edward Kauikeaouli Kaleiopapa became ill in August 1862. Guilloû was one of many physicians called in to help, but they could do nothing and the young prince died, leading to a series of succession crises.\nHe returned to the US in 1867. He lived for a while in Petersburg, Virginia, and then New York City.\n\nGuilloû died on January 2, 1899 in New York of pneumonia.\n\nHe wrote a book of his reminiscences (never published), and took many sketches during his travels.\n\nHis sketches of Oregon and California were published in 1961.\n\nGrandson Charles Thomas Blackmore was born July 3, 1888, joined the British army in World War I, and died on June 16, 1915 in the Battle of Bellewaarde. His widow donated Guilloû's papers to the College of Physicians of Philadelphia in 1974.\nSome of his effects such as medals are on display at the museum there.\n\nGrandson Philip Guillou Blackmore was born January 18, 1890 in Virginia and entered the Virginia Military Institute in 1908.\n\nAfter graduating, he was commissioned into the coast artillery of the US Army on December 20, 1911. During World War I he also went to Hawaii, where he served at Fort Kamehameha and rose to be commander of Fort Ruger. During World War II he rose to the rank of temporary brigadier general. In August 1947 he assumed command of the White Sands Proving Ground. He married Emily Van Patten and had four children.\n\nHe retired in 1950 and died April 7, 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "952214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952214", "title": "Coal seam fire", "text": "Coal seam fire\n\nA coal-seam fire refers to natural burning of an outcrop or underground coal seam. Most coal-seam fires exhibit smoldering combustion, particularly underground coal-seam fires, because of limited atmospheric oxygen availability. Coal-seam fire instances on Earth date back several million years. Due to fine thermal insulation and avoiding rain/snow extinguishment by the crust, underground coal-seam fires are the most persistent fires on Earth and can burn for thousands of years, like Burning Mountain in Australia. Coal-seam fires can be ignited by self-heating of low-temperature oxidation, lightning, wildfires and even arson. Coal-seam fires have been slowly shaping the lithosphere and changing atmosphere. But this pace has become fast and extensive at modern times, triggered by enormous mining activities. \n\nCoal fires are a serious health and safety hazard, affecting the environment by releasing toxic fumes, reigniting grass, brush, or forest fires, and causing subsidence of surface infrastructure such as roads, pipelines, electric lines, bridge supports, buildings, and homes. Whether started by humans or by natural causes, coal seam fires continue to burn for decades or even centuries until either the fuel source is exhausted, a permanent groundwater table is encountered, the depth of the burn becomes greater than the ground's capacity to subside and vent, or humans intervene. Because they burn underground, coal seam fires are extremely difficult and costly to extinguish, and are unlikely to be suppressed by rainfall. There are strong similarities between coal fires and peat fires.\n\nAcross the world, thousands of underground coal fires are burning at any given moment. The problem is most acute in industrializing, coal-rich nations such as China. Global coal fire emissions are estimated to cause 40 tons of mercury to enter the atmosphere annually, and to represent three percent of the world's annual CO emissions.\n\nCoal seam fires can be divided into near-surface fires, in which seams extend to the surface and the oxygen required for their ignition comes from the atmosphere, and fires in deep underground mines, where the oxygen comes from the ventilation.\n\nMine fires may begin as a result of an industrial accident, generally involving a gas explosion. Historically, some mine fires were started when bootleg mining was stopped by authorities, usually by blowing the mine up. Many recent mine fires have started from people burning trash in a landfill that was in proximity to abandoned coal mines, including the much-publicized Centralia, Pennsylvania, fire, which has been burning since 1962. Of the hundreds of mine fires in the United States burning today, most are found in the state of Pennsylvania.\n\nSome fires along coal seams are natural occurrences. Some coals may self-ignite at temperatures as low as 40 °C (104 °F) for brown coal in the right conditions of moisture and grain size. The fire usually begins a few decimeters inside the coal at a depth in which the permeability of the coal allows the inflow of air but in which the ventilation does not remove the heat which is generated.\n\nTwo basic factors determine whether spontaneous combustion occurs or not, the ambient temperature and the grain size:\n\n\nWildfires (lightning-caused or others) can ignite the coal closer to the surface or entrance, and the smouldering fire can spread through the seam, creating subsidence that may open further seams to oxygen and spawn future wildfires when the fire breaks to the surface. Prehistoric clinker outcrops in the American West are the result of prehistoric coal fires that left a residue that resists erosion better than the matrix, leaving buttes and mesa. It is estimated that Australia's Burning Mountain, the oldest known coal fire, has burned for 6,000 years.\n\nGlobally, thousands of inextinguishable mine fires are burning, especially in China where poverty, lack of government regulations and runaway development combine to create an environmental disaster. Modern strip mining exposes smoldering coal seams to the air, revitalizing the flames.\n\nRural Chinese in coal-bearing regions often dig coal for household use, abandoning the pits when they become unworkably deep, leaving highly combustible coal dust exposed to the air. Using satellite imagery to map China's coal fires resulted in the discovery of many previously unknown fires. The oldest coal fire in China is in Baijigou (, in Dawukou District of Shizuishan City, Ningxia) and is said to have been burning since the Qing Dynasty (before 1912).\n\nBefore attempting to extinguish a near-surface coal seam fire, its location and underground extent should be determined as precisely as possible. Besides studying the geographic, geologic and infrastructural context, information can be gained from direct measurements. These include:\n\nUnderground coal mines can be equipped with permanently installed sensor systems. These relay pressure, temperature, airflow and gas composition measurements to the safety monitoring personnel, giving them early warning of any problems.\n\nBesides destruction of the affected areas, coal fires often emit toxic gases, including carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide. China's coal fires, which consume an estimated 20 – 200 million tons of coal a year, make up as much as 1 percent of the global carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels.\n\nOne of the most visible changes will be the effect of subsidence upon the landscape. Another local environmental effect can include the presence of plants or animals that are aided by the coal fire. The prevalence of otherwise non-native plants can depend upon the fire's duration and the size of the affected area. For example, near a coal fire in Germany, many Mediterranean insects and spiders were identified in a region with cold winters, and it is believed that elevated ground temperatures above the fires permitted their survival.\n\nIn order to thrive, a fire requires fuel, oxygen, and heat. As underground fires are very difficult to reach directly, firefighting involves finding an appropriate methodology which addresses the interaction of fuel and oxygen for the specific fire in question. A fire can be isolated from its fuel source, for example through firebreaks or fireproof barriers. Many fires, particularly those on steep slopes, can be completely excavated. In the case of near-surface coal seam fires, the influx of oxygen in the air can be interrupted by covering the area or installing gas-tight barriers. Another possibility is to hinder the outflow of combustion gases so that the fire is quenched by its own exhaust fumes. Energy can be removed by cooling, usually by injecting large amounts of water. However, if any remaining dry coal absorbs water, the resulting heat of absorption can lead to re-ignition of a once-quenched fire as the area dries. Accordingly, more energy must be removed than the fire generates. In practice these methods are combined, and each case depends on the resources available. This is especially true for water, for example in arid regions, and for covering material, such as loess or clay, to prevent contact with the atmosphere.\n\nExtinguishing underground coal fires, which sometimes exceed temperatures of 540 °C (1,000 °F), is both highly dangerous and very expensive.\n\nNear-surface coal seam fires are routinely extinguished in China following a standard method basically consisting of the following phases:\n\n\nEfforts are underway to refine this method, for example with additives to the quenching water or with alternative extinguishing agents.\n\nUnderground coal seam fires are customarily quenched by inertization through mine rescue personnel. Toward this end the affected area is isolated by dam constructions in the galleries. Then an inert gas, usually nitrogen, is introduced for a period of time, usually making use of available pipelines.\n\nIn 2004, the Chinese government claimed success in extinguishing a mine fire at a colliery near Urumqi in China's Xinjiang province that had been burning since 1874. However, a March 2008 \"Time\" magazine article quotes researcher Steven Q. Andrews as saying, \"I decided to go to see how it was extinguished, and flames were visible and the entire thing was still burning... They said it was put out, and who is to say otherwise?\"\n\nA jet engine unit, known as Gorniczy Agregat Gasniczy (GAG), was developed in Poland and successfully used for fighting coal fires and displacing firedamp in mines.\n\n\"Time\" magazine reported in July 2010 that less expensive alternatives for extinguishing coal seam fires were beginning to reach the market, including special heat-resistant grouts and a fire-smothering nitrogen foam, with other innovative solutions on the way.\n\nScientists have recently begun to explore thermal vents for unique soil bacteria capable of producing new pharmaceutical leads. Soil microbes have long been a source for effective drugs and new research, such as that conducted at the Center for Pharmaceutical Research and Innovation, suggests these extreme environments to be an untapped source for new discovery.\n\nSome of the more notable mine fires around the world are listed below.\n\n\n\nIn China, the world’s largest coal producer with an annual output around 2.5 billion tons, coal fires are a serious problem. It has been estimated that some 10-200 million tons of coal uselessly burn annually, and that the same amount again is made inaccessible to mining. Coal fires extend over a belt across the entire north China, whereby over one hundred major fire areas are listed, each of which contains many individual fire zones. They are concentrated in the provinces of Xinjiang, Inner Mongolia and Ningxia. Beside losses from burned and inaccessible coal, these fires contribute to air pollution and considerably increased levels of greenhouse gas emissions and have thereby become a problem which has gained international attention.\n\nIn Planitz, now a part of the city of Zwickau, a coal seam that had been burning since 1476 could only be quenched in 1860. In Dudweiler (Saarland) a coal seam fire ignited around 1668 and is still burning today. This so-called \"Burning Mountain\" (\"Brennender Berg\") soon became a tourist attraction and was even visited by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. Also well-known is the so-called \"Stinksteinwand\" (\"stinking stone wall\") in Schwalbenthal on the eastern slope of the Hoher Meißner, where several seams caught fire centuries ago after lignite coal mining ceased; combustion gas continues to reach the surface today.\n\nIn India, as of 2010, 68 fires were burning beneath a region of the Jharia coalfield in Dhanbad, Jharkhand. \nMine fires started in this region in 1916 and are rapidly destroying the only source of prime coking coal in the country.\n\nCoal and peat fires in Indonesia are often ignited by forest fires\nnear outcrop deposits at the surface. It is difficult to determine when a forest fire is started by a coal seam fire, or vice versa, in the absence of eyewitnesses. The most common cause of forest fires and haze in Indonesia is intentional burning of forest to clear land for plantation crops of pulp wood, rubber and palm oil.\n\nNo accurate count of coal seam fires has been completed in Indonesia. Only a minuscule fraction of the country has been surveyed for coal fires. The best data available come from a study based on systematic, on-the-ground observation. In 1998, a total of 125 coal fires were located and mapped within a 2-kilometer strip either side of a 100-kilometer stretch of road north of Balikpapan to Samarinda in East Kalimantan, using hand-held Global Positioning System (GPS) equipment. Extrapolating this data to areas on Borneo and Sumatra underlain by known coal deposits, it was estimated that more than 250,000 coal seam fires may have been burning in Indonesia in 1998.\n\nLand clearing practices which use fire, often starting forest fires, may be the cause of coal seam fires in Indonesia. In 1982-83 one of the largest forest fires in this century raged for several months through an estimated 5 million hectares of Borneo's tropical rainforests. Goldammer and Seibert however concluded that there are indications that coal seam fires already occurred between 13,200 and 15,000 BP.\n\nA fire season usually occurs every 3–5 years, when the climate in parts of Indonesia becomes exceptionally dry from June to November due to the El Nino Southern Oscillation off the west coast of South America. Since 1982, fire has been a recurring feature on the Islands of Borneo and Sumatra, burning large areas in 1987, 1991, 1994, 1997–98, 2001 and 2004.\n\nIn October 2004 smoke from land clearing again covered substantial portions of Borneo and Sumatra, disrupting air travel, increasing hospital admissions, and extending to portions of Brunei, Singapore and Malaysia. Coal outcrops are so common in Indonesia it is virtually certain these fires ignited new coal seam fires.\n\n\nIn 1944, Longyearbyen Mine #2 on Svalbard was set alight by sailors from the Tirpitz on its final sortie outside of Norwegian coastal waters. The mine continued to burn for 20 years, while some of the areas were subsequently mined from the reconstructed Mine #2b.\n\n\nMany coalfields in the US are subject to spontaneous ignition. The federal Office of Surface Mining (OSM) maintains a database (AMLIS), which in 1999 listed 150 fire zones. In mid-2010, according to OSM, more than 100 fires were burning beneath nine states, most of them in Colorado, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Utah and West Virginia. But geologists say many fires go unreported, so that the actual number of them is nearer to 200, across 21 states.\n\nIn Pennsylvania, 45 fire zones are known, the most famous being the Centralia mine fire in the Centralia mine in the hard coal region of Columbia County, which has been burning since 1962. Burning Mine, near Summit Hill, caught fire in 1859.\n\nIn Colorado, coal fires have arisen as a consequence of fluctuations in the groundwater level, which can increase the temperature of the coal up to 300 °C, enough to cause it to spontaneously ignite.\n\nThe Powder River Basin in Wyoming and Montana contains some 800 billion tons of brown coal, and the Lewis and Clark Expedition (1804 to 1806) reported fires there. Fires have been a natural occurrence in this area for about three million years and have shaped the landscape. For example, an area about 4,000 square kilometers in size is covered with coal clinker, some of it in Theodore Roosevelt National Park, where there is a spectacular view of fiery red coal clinker from Scoria Point.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21475362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21475362", "title": "Cordillera de Colán National Sanctuary", "text": "Cordillera de Colán National Sanctuary\n\nThe Cordillera de Colán National Sanctuary () is a protected area in Peru located in the Amazonas Region, in the Bagua and Utcubamba provinces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6948626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6948626", "title": "Desfontainia", "text": "Desfontainia\n\nDesfontainia is a genus of flowering plants placed currently in the family Columelliaceae, though formerly in Loganiaceae, Potaliaceae (now subsumed in Gentianaceae), or a family of its own, Desfontainiaceae.\n\nThe genus was named for the French botanist, René Louiche Desfontaines.\nIt is hardy to , and requires winter protection in areas with significant frosts.\n\nSpecies in the genus include:\n\nThe best known species, \"D. spinosa\" ('Chilean holly'), is a native of rainforests and mountain slopes in southern Central America and South America, occurring from Costa Rica in the north to certain islands of Tierra del Fuego (shared by Chile and Argentina) in the extreme South, being present also in Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador.\n\nUses include medicinal / hallucinogenic purposes, a natural dye and as an ornamental evergreen shrub. In cultivation, it will grow slowly (in 10–20 years) to some in height and width, but in the wild it can also take the form of a small tree and reach around .\n\nIt has glossy dark green, holly-like leaves, and waxy red tubular flowers, often with yellow tips, and reaching in length. The fruit is a greenish-yellow berry circa in diameter and contains around 44 glistening, coffee-brown seeds. It is a calcifuge (i.e. requires a lime-free environment) and will thrive in wetter conditions in the wild than it is sometimes given credit for in the horticultural literature, occurring as it does in bogs and swamps. It is usually a terrestrial plant, but can also grow as an epiphyte.\n\n\"Desfontainia spinosa\" was introduced into cultivation in Europe by William Lobb in 1843. It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\nIn the Valdivian temperate rainforest of Chile and Argentina \"D. spinosa\" is typically found growing in the understorey of forests dominated by \"Nothofagus\" (southern beech) species - particularly lenga (\"Nothofagus pumilio\") and coihue (\"Nothofagus dombeyi\").\n\nIn 2001, \"D. spinosa\" was described for the first time as having been observed growing as a (fully autotrophic) epiphyte, the host tree in question being the \"lahuán / alerce\" - the gigantic and extremely long-lived conifer \"Fitzroya cupressoides.\" The epiphyte communities of the largest substrates (Substrate (biology)) (deep soil mats some 34 m (111 ft) up in the Fitzroya crowns), featured not only Desfontainia, but also the shrub Pseudopanax laetevirens (Araliaceae) and two tree species, namely \"Tepualia stipularis\" (Myrtaceae)and Weinmannia trichosperma (Cunoniaceae). These normally terrestrial species were thriving in their epiphytic existence - even a tall specimen of Tepualia showed no sign of stress. Some \"Fitzroya\" crowns sported such large epiphytic trees as to give the impression of a 'double crown effect.'\n\nThe sole seed-dispersal vector for both epiphytic and terrestrial populations of \"Desfontainia\" in the \"Fitzroya\" forest remnants of Chile and Argentina is the chumaihuén (\"Dromiciops gliroides\"), an edible dormouse-like marsupial in length (including tail). This little creature, part frugivore and part insectivore forms an evolutionary link from the marsupials of South America to the marsupial fauna of Australia. It is better-known by its Spanish name \"monito del monte\" (little monkey of the mountain). Largely arboreal and nocturnal, \"Dromiciops\" distributes in its faeces the seeds of many of the berry-bearing, endemic plants present in its range, including those of not one, but two shrubs hallucinogenic to humans: \"Desfontainia spinosa\" (see below) and \"Gaultheria insana,\" formerly known as \"Pernettya furens\" (Ericaceae).\n\n\"Desfontainia spinosa,\" like many red-flowered plants, is pollinated by birds, the species involved being the green-backed firecrown - \"Sephanoides sephaniodes\" - the most southerly species of hummingbird.\nA bumblebee species - \"Bombus dahlbomii\" is also involved. Bee species are barely receptive to red wavelengths of light i.e. greater than 600 nm, but have been found still to be able to perceive red flowers, particularly blue-ish red ones, thanks to their l-receptors. \"Desfontainia\" flowers are mostly of a true red (scarlet as opposed to deep pink) but, seen with the green-sensitive component of a bee's vision, still present enough of a contrast with green foliage to be noticeable and thus pollinatable. Furthermore, the yellow flower mouths of certain varieties of \"Desfontainia\" would be visible by bees at 590 nm. (See Bee learning and communication section 1.6 Neurobiology of colour vision).\n\"Bombus dahlbomii\", a large, golden-furred species and the only one native to the South American temperate forest of southern Chile and Argentina, is now, sadly, endangered, thanks to the introduction of European \"Bombus terrestris.\"\n\n\"Desfontainia spinosa\" has twice been reported with voucher specimens as a hallucinogen from Andean southern Colombia by Richard Evans Schultes : the first time in 1942 from the Paramo de Tambillo and the second from the Paramo de San Antonio in 1953.\nShamans in Colombia's Sibundoy Valley make a tea of the leaves 'when they want to dream' or 'to see visions and diagnose disease'. It is not used frequently, partly because of its potency, partly because the plant itself is not cultivated and must be gathered in the wild in remote páramos. The Colombian name of the shrub is Borrachero de Paramo (=intoxicating plant of the mountain bog/bleak upland moor).\n\nThe Camsá shamans of the Sibundoy Valley are also expert in the use of the dangerously toxic solanaceous hallucinogens Brugmansia and Iochroma and their occasional employment of \"Desfontainia\" for similar divinatory purposes (and reticence to speak of this practice) may well indicate a plant similarly toxic and difficult to use and causing a comparably unpleasant experience and after-effects.\n\n\"Desfontainia spinosa\" var. \"hookeri\" has been reported as a narcotic utilized by the Mapuche people of Chile by Carlos Mariani Ramirez, who also likened the bitterness of the plant to that of Gentian and mentioned its use as a yellow dye.\n\nThe greenish-yellow, baccate fruit of \"D. spinosa\" is reputedly even more intoxicating than the foliage of the plant and is reported occasionally to have been brewed into a potently psychoactive type of chicha (see also Saliva-fermented beverages).\n\nNames for \"Desfontainia\" in the Mapuche language add to the knowledge of its appearance and folk uses in Chile: 'Taique' means 'shiny', in reference to the plant's glossy leaves; 'Chapico' means 'chilli water', alluding to the plant's hot and bitter taste; 'Michay Blanco' means 'white kind of yellow tree', i.e. white shrub furnishing a yellow dye' ('Michay' can also designate several species of \"Berberis\" which not only yield yellow dyes but also have bright yellow wood and also somewhat resemble \"Desfontainia\" in appearance); 'Latuy' is also a name for \"Latua pubiflora\", the single species of the monotypic genus \"Latua\" (Solanaceae) endemic to central Chile and used by the Machi of the Mapuche people as a hallucinogen and poison to cause insanity (sometimes permanent) in a victim - which accords well with its \"Brugmansia\"-like content of tropane alkaloids.\n\nA test for alkaloids with Dragendorff's reagent (see Johann Georg Noel Dragendorff) on samples of \"Desfontainia\" from herbarium specimens collected in Argentina, Chile and Ecuador did not, however, indicate the presence of alkaloids, tropane or otherwise; and, while the chemistry of \"Desfontainia\" is becoming better known, none of the compounds isolated from it thus far can account for the plant's purported hallucinogenic effects.\n\nChemotaxonomically, \"Desfontainia\" has been historically placed in the Loganiaceae family, but it is currently assigned to Columelliaceae.\n\n\"Desfontainia spinosa\" has been found to contain, among other compounds including the cucurbitacins spinoside A and B. These bitter steroids, while not hallucinogenic, could contribute to the relative toxicity of the plant for human subjects, given that cucurbitacins exhibit cytotoxicity and that certain kinds have been held responsible for cases of poisoning, some fatal, by dangerously irritant/cathartic plants in the plant family Cucurbitaceae such as \"Ecballium elaterium\" and \"Citrullus colocynthis\".\n\nOne chemical constituent of \"Desfontainia\" present in considerable quantity is the pentacyclic triterpene acid ursolic acid.\n\nAlso present are loganin and secoxyloganin, compounds related to secologanin a molecule involved in the mevalonate pathway leading to, \"inter alia\", terpenoid and steroid biosynthesis.\n\nLiriodendrin a ligan diglucoside also found in \"Liriodendron tulipifera\" (Magnoliaceae) and \"Acanthopanax senticosus\" (Araliaceae). Liriodendrin is transformed \"in vivo\" to syringaresinol which also occurs in \"Castela emoryi\", \"Prunus mume\" and \"Magnolia thailandica\".\n\n"}
{"id": "196141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196141", "title": "Electrician", "text": "Electrician\n\nAn electrician is a tradesman specializing in electrical wiring of buildings, transmission lines, stationary machines, and related equipment. Electricians may be employed in the installation of new electrical components or the maintenance and repair of existing electrical infrastructure. Electricians may also specialize in wiring ships, airplanes, and other mobile platforms, as well as data and cable lines.\n\n\"Electricians\" were originally people who demonstrated or studied the principles of electricity, often electrostatic generators of one form or another. \nIn the United States, electricians are divided into two primary categories: linemen, who work on electric utility company distribution systems at higher voltages, and wiremen, who work with the lower voltages utilized inside buildings. Wiremen are generally trained in one of five primary specialties: commercial, residential, light industrial, industrial, and low-voltage wiring, more commonly known as Voice-Data-Video, or VDV. Other sub-specialties such as control wiring and fire-alarm may be performed by specialists trained in the devices being installed, or by inside wiremen.\nElectricians are trained to one of three levels: Apprentice, Journeyman, and Master Electrician. In the US and Canada, apprentices work and receive a reduced compensation while learning their trade. They generally take several hundred hours of classroom instruction and are contracted to follow apprenticeship standards for a period of between three and six years, during which time they are paid as a percentage of the Journeyman's pay. Journeymen are electricians who have completed their Apprenticeship and who have been found by the local, State, or National licensing body to be competent in the electrical trade. Master Electricians have performed well in the trade for a period of time, often seven to ten years, and have passed an exam to demonstrate superior knowledge of the National Electrical Code, or NEC.\nService electricians are tasked to respond to requests for isolated repairs and upgrades. They have skills troubleshooting wiring problems, installing wiring in existing buildings, and making repairs. Construction electricians primarily focus on larger projects, such as installing all new electrical system for an entire building, or upgrading an entire floor of an office building as part of a remodeling process. Other specialty areas are marine electricians, research electricians and hospital electricians. \"Electrician\" is also used as the name of a role in stagecraft, where electricians are tasked primarily with hanging, focusing, and operating stage lighting. In this context, the Master Electrician is the show's chief electrician. Although theater electricians routinely perform electrical work on stage lighting instruments and equipment, they are not part of the electrical trade and have a different set of skills and qualifications from the electricians that work on building wiring.\nIn the film industry and on a television crew the head electrician is referred to as a \"Gaffer.\"\nElectrical contractors are businesses that employ electricians to design, install, and maintain electrical systems. Contractors are responsible for generating bids for new jobs, hiring tradespeople for the job, providing material to electricians in a timely manner, and communicating with architects, electrical and building engineers, and the customer to plan and complete the finished product.\n\nMany jurisdictions have regulatory restrictions concerning electrical work for safety reasons due to the many hazards of working with electricity. Such requirements may be testing, registration or licensing. Licensing requirements vary between jurisdictions.\n\nAn electrician's license entitles the holder to carry out all types of electrical installation work in Australia without supervision. However, to contract, or offer to contract, to carry out electrical installation work, a licensed electrician must also be registered as an electrical contractor. Under Australian law, electrical work that involves fixed wiring is strictly regulated and must almost always be performed by a licensed electrician or electrical contractor. A local electrician can handle a range of work including air conditioning, light fittings and installation, safety switches, smoke alarm installation, inspection and certification and testing and tagging of electrical appliances. \n\nTo provide data, structured cabling systems, home automation & theatre, LAN, WAN and VPN data solutions or phone points, an installer must be licensed as a Telecommunications Cable Provider under a scheme controlled by Australian Communications and Media Authority\n\nElectrical licensing in Australia is regulated by the individual states. In Western Australia, the Department of Commerce tracks licensee's and allows the public to search for individually named/licensed Electricians.\n\nCurrently in Victoria the apprenticeship last for four years, during three of those years the apprentice attends trade school in either a block release of one week each month or one day each week. At the end of the apprenticeship the apprentice is required to pass three examinations, one of which is theory based with the other two practically based. Upon successful completion of these exams, providing all other components of the apprenticeship are satisfactory, the apprentice is granted an A Class licence on application to Energy Safe Victoria (ESV).\n\nAn A Class electrician may perform work unsupervised but is unable to work for profit or gain without having the further qualifications necessary to become a Registered Electrical Contractor (REC) or being in the employment of a person holding REC status. However, some exemptions do exist.\n\nIn most cases a certificate of electrical safety must be submitted to the relevant body after any electrical works are performed.\n\nSafety equipment used and worn by electricians in Australia (including insulated rubber gloves and mats) needs to be tested regularly to ensure it is still protecting the worker. Because of the high risk involved in this trade, this testing needs performed regularly and regulations vary according to state. Industry best practice is the Queensland Electrical Safety Act 2002, and requires six-monthly testing.\n\nTraining of electricians follows an apprenticeship model, taking four or five years to progress to fully qualified journeyman level. Typical apprenticeship programs consists of 80-90% hands-on work under the supervision of journeymen and 10-20% classroom training. Training and licensing of electricians is regulated by each province, however professional licenses are valid throughout Canada under Agreement on Internal Trade. An endorsement under the Red Seal Program provides additional competency assurance to industry standards.\nIn order for individuals to become a licensed electricians, they need to have 9000 hours of practical, on the job training. They also need to attend school for 4 terms and pass a provincial exam. This training enables them to become journeyman electricians. Furthermore, in British Columbia, an individual can go a step beyond that and become a “FSR”, or field safety representative. This credential gives the ability to become a licensed electrical contractor and to pull permits. Notwithstanding this, some Canadian provinces only grant \"permit pulling privileges\" to current Master Electricians, that is, a journeyman who has been engaged in the industry for three (3) years AND has passed the Master's examination (i.e. Alberta). The various levels of field safety representatives are A,B and C. The only difference between each class is that they are able to do increasingly higher voltage and current work.\n\nCompetency standards in the UK are defined by the Sector Skills council Summit Skills. Qualifications certificated by awarding organisations such as City and Guilds and EAL are based on these National Occupational Standards. Once qualified and demonstrating the required level of competence an Electrician can register with the JIB (Joint industry Board) for an Electrotechnical Certification Scheme (ECS) card. Electrical competence is required at Level 3 to practice as an electrician in the UK. The electrical industry is one of the few that require a trade test to be achieved prior to being fully qualified. This is known as the AM2.\n\nElectricians can demonstrate further competence by studying further qualifications in Design and Verification of Electrical Installations or in the Test and Inspection of Electrical Installations. These qualifications can be listed on the reverse of the JIB card.\n\nThe Electricity at Work Regulations are the statutory document that covers electrical installations. Further information is provided in the non-statutory document BS7671 - Requirements for Electrical Installations otherwise known as the Wiring Regulations currently (2013) in their 17th Edition. Installations that comply with BS7671 are deemed to have met the EAWR. Electrical Installation in domestic properties is governed by Part P of the Building Regulations and electricians have to register certain aspects of their work in domestic properties with the local building control authority.\n\nWith the exception of the work described in Part P of the Building Regulations there are no laws that prevent anyone from carrying out electrical work in the UK. A possible result of this is that during 2010/11 and in 2011/12 there were 3,822 domestic electrical fires in Great Britain, resulting in 14 deaths. Organisations such as the Electrical Safety Council are working hard to educate the public not to use electricians who are not fully qualified or competent and to check the ElectricSafe register to ensure an Electrician has been deemed competent.\n\nThe United States does not offer nationwide licensing and electrical licenses are issued by individual states. There are variations in licensing requirements, however, all states recognize three basic skill categories: level electricians. Journeyman electricians can work unsupervised provided that they work according to a master's direction. Generally, states do not offer journeyman permits, and journeyman electricians and other apprentices can only work under permits issued to a master electrician. Apprentices may not work without direct supervision. \n\nBefore electricians can work unsupervised, they are usually required to serve an apprenticeship lasting from 3 to 5 years under the general supervision of a Master Electrician and usually the direct supervision of a Journeyman Electrician. Schooling in electrical theory and electrical building codes is required to complete the apprenticeship program. Many apprenticeship programs provide a salary to the apprentice during training. A Journeyman electrician is a classification of licensing granted to those who have met the experience requirements for on the job training (usually 4000 to 6000 hours) and classroom hours (about 144 hours). Requirements include completion of two to six years of apprenticeship training, and passing a licensing exam.}.\n\nAn electrician's license is valid for work in the state where the license was issued. In addition, many states recognize licenses from other states, sometimes called interstate reciprocity participation, although there can be conditions imposed. For example, California reciprocates with Arizona, Nevada, and Utah on the condition that licenses are in good standing and have been held at the other state for five years. Nevada reciprocates with Arizona, California, and Utah. Maine reciprocates with New Hampshire and Vermont at the master level, and the state reciprocates with New Hampshire, North Dakota, Idaho, Oregon, Vermont, and Wyoming at the journeyman level.\n\nElectricians use a range of hand and power tools and instruments.\n\nSome of the more common tools are:\n\nIn addition to the workplace hazards generally faced by industrial workers, electricians are also particularly exposed to injury by electricity. An electrician may experience electric shock due to direct contact with energized circuit conductors or due to stray voltage caused by faults in a system. An electric arc exposes eyes and skin to hazardous amounts of heat and light. Faulty switchgear may cause an arc flash incident with a resultant blast. Electricians are trained to work safely and take many measures to minimize the danger of injury. Lockout and tagout procedures are used to make sure that circuits are proven to be de-energized before work is done. Limits of approach to energized equipment protect against arc flash exposure; specially designed flash-resistant clothing provides additional protection; grounding (earthing) clamps and chains are used on line conductors to provide a visible assurance that a conductor is de-energized. Personal protective equipment provides electrical insulation as well as protection from mechanical impact; gloves have insulating rubber liners, and work boots and hard hats are specially rated to provide protection from shock. If a system cannot be de-energized, insulated tools are used; even high-voltage transmission lines can be repaired while energized, when necessary.\n\nElectrical workers, which includes electricians, accounted for 34% of total electrocutions of construction trades workers in the United States between 1992–2003.\n\nWorking conditions for electricians vary by specialization. Generally an electrician's work is physically demanding such as climbing ladders and lifting tools and supplies. Occasionally an electrician must work in a cramped space or on scaffolding, and may frequently be bending, squatting or kneeling, to make connections in awkward locations. Construction electricians may spend much of their days in outdoor or semi-outdoor loud and dirty work sites. Industrial electricians may be exposed to the heat, dust, and noise of an industrial plant. Power systems electricians may be called to work in all kinds of adverse weather to make emergency repairs.\n\nSome electricians are union members and work under their union's policies.\n\nElectricians can choose to be represented by the Electrical Trade Union (ETU). Electrical Contractors can be represented by the National Electrical & Communications Association or Master Electricians Australia.\n\nSome electricians are union members. Some examples of electricians' unions include the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Canadian Union of Public Employees, and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.<br>The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers provides its own apprenticeships through its National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee and the National Electrical Contractors Association. Many merit shop training and apprenticeship programs also exist, including those offered by such as trade associations as Associated Builders and Contractors and Independent Electrical Contractors. These organizations provide comprehensive training, in accordance with U.S. Department of Labor regulations.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, electricians are represented by several unions including Unite the Union\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland there are two self-regulation/self certification bodies RECI Register of Electrical Contractors of Ireland and ECSSA.\n\nAn auto electrician is a tradesman specializing in electrical wiring of motor vehicles. Auto electricians may be employed in the installation of new electrical components or the maintenance and repair of existing electrical components. Auto electricians specialize in cars and commercial vehicles. The auto electrical trade is generally more difficult than the electrical trade due to the confined spaces, engineering complexity of modern automotive electrical systems, and working conditions (often roadside breakdowns or on construction sites, mines, quarries to repair machinery etc.) Also the presence of high-current DC electricity makes injury from burns and arc-flash injury possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14987463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14987463", "title": "Energy Economics (journal)", "text": "Energy Economics (journal)\n\nEnergy Economics is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Elsevier covering the economic and econometric modelling and analysis of energy systems and issues (energy economics). The editors-in-chief are B.W. Ang (National University of Singapore), U. Soytas (Middle East Technical University), R.S.J. Tol (University of Sussex), and J.P. Weyant (Stanford University). The \"Journal of Energy Finance & Development\" (1996-1999) was incorporated into \"Energy Economics\" in 1999.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2013 impact factor of 2.580.\n\n"}
{"id": "827528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=827528", "title": "Energy carrier", "text": "Energy carrier\n\nAn energy carrier is a substance (energy form) or sometimes a phenomenon (energy system) that contains energy that can be later converted to other forms such as mechanical work or heat or to operate chemical or physical processes.\n\nSuch carriers include springs, electrical batteries, capacitors, pressurized air, dammed water, hydrogen, petroleum, coal, wood, and natural gas. An energy carrier does not produce energy; it simply contains energy imbued by another system.\n\nAccording to ISO 13600, an energy carrier is either a substance or a phenomenon that can be used to produce mechanical work or heat or to operate chemical or physical processes. It is any system or substance that contains energy for conversion as usable energy later or somewhere else. This could be converted for use in, for example, an appliance or vehicle. Such carriers include springs, electrical batteries, capacitors, pressurized air, dammed water, hydrogen, petroleum, coal, wood, and natural gas.\n\nISO 13600 series (ISO 13600, ISO 13601 and ISO 13602) are intended to be used as tools to define, describe, analyse and compare technical energy systems (TES) at micro and macro levels:\n\n\nIn the field of energetics, an energy carrier corresponds only to an energy form (not an energy system) of energy input required by the various sectors of society to perform their functions. Energy carriers (EC) are produced by the energy sector using primary energy sources (PES). The distinction between \"Energy Carriers\" and \"Primary Energy Sources\" is extremely important since these two labels refer to energy forms of different quality so that they cannot be aggregated: 1 megajoule (MJ) of EC is not the same as 1 MJ of PES. Sunlight is a main form of primary energy, which can be transformed into plants and then into coal, oil and gas. Solar power and wind power are other derivatives of sunlight. Note that although coal, oil and natural gas are derived from sunlight, they are considered primary energy sources which are extracted from the earth (fossil fuels). Natural uranium is also a primary energy source extracted from the earth but does not come from the decomposition of organisms (mineral fuel).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "916345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916345", "title": "Exclusive economic zone", "text": "Exclusive economic zone\n\nAn exclusive economic zone (EEZ) is a sea zone prescribed by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea over which a state has special rights regarding the exploration and use of marine resources, including energy production from water and wind. It stretches from the baseline out to 200 nautical miles (nmi) from its coast. In colloquial usage, the term may include the continental shelf. The term does not include either the territorial sea or the continental shelf beyond the 200 nmi limit. The difference between the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone is that the first confers full sovereignty over the waters, whereas the second is merely a \"sovereign right\" which refers to the coastal state's rights below the surface of the sea. The surface waters, as can be seen in the map, are international waters.\n\nGenerally, a state's exclusive economic zone is an area beyond and adjacent to the territorial sea, extending seaward to a distance of no more than out from its coastal baseline. The exception to this rule occurs when exclusive economic zones would overlap; that is, state coastal baselines are less than apart. When an overlap occurs, it is up to the states to delineate the actual maritime boundary. Generally, any point within an overlapping area defaults to the nearest state.\n\nA state's exclusive economic zone starts at the seaward edge of its territorial sea and extends outward to a distance of from the baseline. The exclusive economic zone stretches much further into sea than the territorial waters, which end at from the coastal baseline (if following the rules set out in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea). Thus, the exclusive economic zones includes the contiguous zone. States also have rights to the seabed of what is called the continental shelf up to from the coastal baseline, beyond the exclusive economic zones, but such areas are not part of their exclusive economic zones. The legal definition of the continental shelf does not directly correspond to the geological meaning of the term, as it also includes the continental rise and slope, and the entire seabed within the exclusive economic zone.\n\nThe idea of allotting nations EEZs to give them more control of maritime affairs outside territorial limits gained acceptance in the late 20th century.\n\nInitially, a country's sovereign territorial waters extended (range of cannon shot) beyond the shore. In modern times, a country's sovereign territorial waters extend to beyond the shore. One of the first assertions of exclusive jurisdiction beyond the traditional territorial seas was made by the United States in the Truman Proclamation of September 28, 1945. However, it was Chile and Peru respectively that first claimed maritime zones of 200 nautical miles with the Presidential Declaration Concerning Continental Shelf of 23 June 1947 (El Mercurio, Santiago de Chile, 29 June 1947) and Presidential Decree No. 781 of 1 August 1947 (El Peruano: Diario . Vol. 107, No. 1983, 11 August 1947).\n\nIt was not until 1982 with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea that the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone was formally adopted.\n\nThe exact extent of exclusive economic zones is a common source of conflicts between states over marine waters.\n\n\nRegions where a permanent ice shelf extends beyond the coastline are also a source of potential dispute.\n\n\nFisheries management, usually adhering to guidelines set by the FAO, provides significant practical mechanisms for the control of EEZs. Transboundary fish stocks are an important concept in this control.\nTransboundary stocks are fish stocks that range in the EEZs of at least two countries. Straddling stocks, on the other hand, range both within an EEZ as well as in the high seas, outside any EEZ. A stock can be both transboundary and straddling.\n\nAustralia's Exclusive Economic Zone was declared on 1 August 1994, and extends from 12 nautical miles to 200 nautical miles (370 km) from the coastline of Australia and its external territories, except where a maritime delimitation agreement exists with another state. To the 12 nautical miles boundary is Australia's territorial waters. Australia has the third largest exclusive economic zone, behind France and the United States, but ahead of Russia, with the total area of 8,148,250 square kilometres, which actually exceeds its land territory.\n\nThe United Nations Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf confirmed, in April 2008, Australia's rights over an additional 2.5 million square kilometres of seabed beyond the limits of Australia's EEZ. Australia also claimed, in its submission to the UN Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, additional Continental Shelf past its EEZ from the Australian Antarctic Territory, but these claims were deferred on Australia's request. However, Australia's EEZ from its Antarctic Territory is approximately 2 million square kilometres.\n\nBrazil's EEZ includes areas around the Fernando de Noronha Islands, St Paul and St. Peter Archipelago and the Trindade and Martim Islands.\nIn 2004, the country submitted its claims to the United Nations Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) to extend its maritime continental margin.\n\nCanada is unusual in that its exclusive economic zone, covering , is slightly smaller than its territorial waters. The latter generally extend only 12 nautical miles from the shore, but also include inland marine waters such as Hudson Bay (about across), the Gulf of Saint Lawrence and the internal waters of the Arctic archipelago.\n\nChile's EEZ includes areas around the Desventuradas Islands, Easter Island and the Juan Fernández Islands.\n\nThere is a dispute with Peru over the extent of Chile's EEZ: Chilean–Peruvian maritime dispute\n\nThe first figure excludes all disputed waters, while the last figure indicates China's claimed boundaries, and does not take into account neighboring powers' claims.\n\nThe Exclusive Economic Zone of Cyprus covers more than 70,000 km and is divided between 13 exploration blocks. The process of the establishment of Cyprus, Israel and Lebanon Exclusive Economic Zones was held in Nicosia in 2010 with separate meetings between each country. Cyprus and Israel as part of their wider cooperation have agreed to start their gas explorations with a common American company, specifically Noble Energy. Cypriot and Israeli governments are discussing to export their natural gas through the shipping of compressed Natural Gas to Greece and then to the rest of Europe or through a subsea Pipelines starting from Israel and then leading to Greece via Cyprus.\n\nThe Kingdom of Denmark includes the constituent country (\"selvstyre\") of Greenland and the constituent country (\"hjemmestyre\") of the Faroe Islands.\n\nDue to its numerous overseas departments and territories scattered on all oceans of the planet, France possesses the largest EEZ in the world, covering 11,691,000 km (4,514,000 mi), the EEZ of the United States is the second largest (11,351,000 km / 4,382,000 mi). The EEZ of France covers approximately 8% of the total surface of all the EEZs of the world, whereas the land area of the French Republic is only 0.45% of the total land area of the Earth.\nGreece has claimed an exclusive economic zone, as it is entitled to do so, as per UNCLOS 1982 as well as customary international law.\n\nAccording to published maps, the Israel government has recognized the Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ) of Greece and Cyprus. They describe the course of the gas pipeline which will transfer gas produced by American Νoble Εnergy Ltd. from the Leviathan reservoir to Europe, through an undersea pipeline crossing Greece. The gas pipeline should traverse the sea area, which according to international law, is part of the Greek EEZ. By this proposal, Israel recognizes the Greek EEZ in the area and offers an advantage that Greece can use during negotiation procedures to support its claims on the area. In practice, this cooperation will set up a powerful energy coalition between Greece, Cyprus and Israel. The mining and operating part will be undertaken by an American company. \"The substance of the issue is that in an effort to protect and secure vital Israeli interests in the Mediterranean Sea, Israel has been left with no choice other than to officially delimit its maritime borders\".\n\n\nIndia is currently seeking to extend its EEZ to 350 miles.\n\nIn 2010, an agreement was signed with Cyprus concerning the limit of territorial waters between Israel and Cyprus at the maritime halfway point, a clarification essential for safeguarding Israel's rights to oil and underwater gas reservoirs. The agreement was signed in Nicosia by Israeli Infrastructure Minister Uzi Landau and the Cypriot Foreign Minister Markos Kyprianou. The two countries agreed to cooperate in the development of any cross border resources discovered, and to negotiate an agreement on dividing joint resources.\n\n\nJapan has disputes over its EEZ boundaries with all its Asian neighbors (Russia, Republic of Korea, China and Taiwan). The above, and relevant maps at the Sea Around Us Project both indicate Japan's claimed boundaries, and do not take into account neighboring powers' claims.\n\nJapan also refers to various categories of \"shipping area\" – Smooth Water Area, Coasting Area, Major or Greater Coasting Area, Ocean Going Area – but it is unclear whether these are intended to have any territorial or economic implications.\n\nMexico's exclusive economic zones comprise a total surface area of 3,144,295 km, and places Mexico among the countries with the largest areas in the world. This puts Mexico's total territory as 5,153,735 km.\n\nNew Zealand's EEZ covers , which is approximately fifteen times the land area of the country. Sources vary significantly on the size of New Zealand's EEZ; for example, a recent government publication gave the area as roughly 4,300,000 km. These figures are for the EEZ of New Zealand proper, and do not include the EEZs of other territories in the Realm of New Zealand (Tokelau, Niue, the Cook Islands and the Ross Dependency).\n\nThe exclusive economic zone of North Korea stretches 200 nautical miles from its basepoints in both the West Sea (Yellow Sea) and the East Sea (Sea of Japan). The EEZ was declared in 1977 after North Korea had contested the validity of the Northern Limit Lines (NLL) set up after the Korean War as maritime borders. The EEZ has not been codified in law and North Korea has never specified its coordinates, making it difficult to determine its specific scope.\n\nIn the West Sea, the EEZ remains unspecified in the Korean Bay because China has not determined its own EEZ in the area. The border between the North Korean and South Korean EEZs in the West Sea cannot be determined because of potential overlap and disputes over certain islands.\n\nIn the East Sea, the North Korean EEZ can be approximated to be trapezoidal-shaped. The border between North Korea and Russia's respective EEZs is the only such border that has been determined in East Asia. Here, the EEZ does not cause many problems, even with regards to South Korea, because the sea is not thought to be rich in resources.\n\nNorway has a large exclusive economic zone of 819 620 km around its coast. The country has a fishing zone of 1,878,953 km, including fishing zones around Svalbard and Jan Mayen.\n\nIn April 2009, the United Nations Commission for the Limits of the Continental Shelf approved Norway's claim to an additional 235,000 square kilometres of continental shelf. The commission found that Norway and Russia both had valid claims over a portion of shelf in the Barents Sea.\n\nThe Philippines' EEZ covers .\n\nThe Polish EEZ covers the area of within the Baltic Sea.\n\nPortugal has the 20th largest EEZ in the world. Presently, it is divided in three non-contiguous sub-zones:\nPortugal submitted a claim to extend its jurisdiction over additional 2.15 million square kilometers of the neighboring continental shelf in May 2009, resulting in an area with a total of more than 3,877,408 km. The submission, as well as a detailed map, can be found in the Task Group for the extension of the Continental Shelf website.\n\nSpain disputes the EEZ's southern border, maintaining that it should be drawn halfway between Madeira and the Canary Islands. But Portugal exercises sovereignty over the Savage Islands, a small archipelago north of the Canaries, claiming an EEZ border further south. Spain objects, arguing that the Savage Islands do not have a separate continental shelf, citing article 121 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.\n\n\n\nSouth Africa's EEZ includes both that next to the African mainland and that around the Prince Edward Islands, totalling 1,535,538 km.\n\nArea: 300,851 (225,214) km\n\nThe United Kingdom's exclusive economic zone is the fifth largest in the world at 6,805,586 square km. It comprises the exclusive economic zones surrounding the United Kingdom, the Crown Dependencies, and the British Overseas Territories. The figure does not include the EEZ of the British Antarctic Territory. The exclusive economic zones associated with the Falkland Islands and South Georgia are disputed by Argentina. The EEZ of the Chagos archipelago also known as the British Indian Ocean Territory is also disputed with Mauritius which considers the EEZ as part of its territory.\n\nThe UK was late to establish an EEZ, relying on overlapping maritime zones for fisheries, pollution control, and energy matters. The Marine and Coastal Access Act 2009 gave the powers to establish an EEZ, with the zone defined by The Exclusive Economic Zone Order 2013 which came into force on 31 March 2014.\n\nOnly the United Kingdom and Gibraltar are part of the EU. The Crown dependencies and the remaining overseas territories (that is, all except Gibraltar) are not part of the EU. The United Kingdom has not as yet claimed its rights with regards to Gibraltar or the Sovereign Base Areas in Cyprus.\n\n†Part of the overseas territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, which together has an EEZ of 1,641,294 square km.\n\nThe United States' exclusive economic zone is the second largest in the world, covering 11,351,000 km. Areas of its EEZ are located in three oceans, the Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean Sea.\n\n\nThe sizes of the components of the US EEZ/territorial seas are (in decreasing size):\n\nTotal: \n\nThis list includes dependent territories within their sovereign states (including uninhabited territories), but does not include claims on Antarctica. EEZ+TIA is exclusive economic zone (EEZ) plus total internal area (TIA) which includes land and internal waters.\n\n\nNotes:\n\nReferences:\nWorks cited:\n\n"}
{"id": "49426460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49426460", "title": "Fingerite", "text": "Fingerite\n\nFingerite is a copper vanadate mineral with formula: β-CuVO. It was discovered as triclinic crystals occurring as volcanic sublimates around fumaroles in the crater of the Izalco Volcano, El Salvador. \n\nAssociated minerals include thenardite, euchlorine, stoiberite, shcherbinaite, ziesite, bannermanite, chalcocyanite and chalcanthite.\n\nFingerite is named for Larry W. Finger (b. 1940) of the Carnegie Institution.\n"}
{"id": "1871862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1871862", "title": "Foundation species", "text": "Foundation species\n\nIn ecology, the term foundation species is used to refer to a species that has a strong role in structuring a community. A foundation species can occupy any trophic level in a food web (i.e., they can be primary producers, herbivores or predators). The term was coined by Paul K. Dayton in 1972, who applied it to certain members of marine invertebrate and algae communities. It was clear from studies in several locations that there were a small handful of species whose activities had a disproportionate effect on the rest of the marine community and they were therefore key to the resilience of the community. Dayton’s view was that focusing on foundation species would allow for a simplified approach to more rapidly understand how a community as a whole would react to disturbances, such as pollution, instead of attempting the extremely difficult task of tracking the responses of all community members simultaneously. The term has since been applied to range of organisms in ecosystems around the world, in both aquatic and terrestrial environments. Aaron Ellison \"et al.\" introduced the term to terrestrial ecology by applying the term foundation species to tree species that define and structure certain forest ecosystems through their influences on associated organisms and modulation of ecosystem processes.\n\nA study conducted at the McKenzie Flats at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge in New Mexico, a semi-arid biome transition zone, observed the result of loss of a variety of different dominant and codominant foundation species of plants on the growth of other species. This transition zone consists of two Chihuahuan Desert species, black grama (\"Bouteloua eriopoda)\" and creosote bush (\"Larrea tridentata)\", and a Shortgrass Steppe species, blue grama (\"Bouteloua gracillis)\". Each species dominates an area with a specific soil environment. Black grama dominates sandy soils, while blue grama dominates in soils with high clay content, and creosote bush dominates fine-textured soil with surface gravel. This study noted that responses to the loss of foundation species is dependent on a variety of different factors from the ability of a species to recover to the climate conditions of the ecosystem to the patterns in dominance and explored the possible reasons for the outcomes of the study. The results indicated that in areas with just one dominant foundation species, its loss caused a shift in dominance to a mixed dominant community. For example, the creosote bush dominated shrubland saw a shift in dominance to 32% by other shrubs, 26% by perennial grasses, and 22% by perennial forbs following the removal of creosote bush. Another finding was that regardless of the community type and the species removed, the loss of foundation species resulted in an overall increase in black grama supporting the notion that the outcome is greatly affected by recovery ability of species removed or loss.\n\nAnother study observed the effects of loss of foundation Eastern hemlocks (\"Tsuga canadensis\") in a forest ecosystem. Eastern hemlocks are a foundation species in eastern North American forests, but have been threatened by the accidental introduction of woolly adelgid. This study observed the effects that a loss in Eastern Hemlocks would have on the populations of arthropods, such as ants, beetles, and spiders, since these species are known indicators of environmental change. The results found that in areas of hemlock removal, there was an overall increase and influx of arthropod species. Researchers suggested that this was due to an increase in open habitats from the loss of the hemlocks. The results of this hemlock study corroborated with those from the previous McKenzie Flats study discussed in that the loss of foundation species led to a proliferation of species diversity in the affected area. These results seem to contradict a long-standing belief that foundation species play a vital role in communities and ecosystems by creating habitats for organisms, suggesting that in some circumstances they bottleneck species diversity.\n\nFoundation species play a vital role in structuring a community; however, this can be in a variety of different ways. The presence of a foundation species has the ability to either reduce or increase species diversity depending on its particular role in a specific ecosystem. The studies discussed highlighted examples in which foundation species limited species diversity in a similar and differing taxa (McKenzie Flats study and Eastern hemlock study, respectively); however, there are many other examples in which removal of foundation species could decrease species diversity within the same or differing taxa.\n\n"}
{"id": "15677650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15677650", "title": "Framsticks", "text": "Framsticks\n\nFramsticks is a 3D freeware Artificial Life simulator. Organisms consisting of physical structures (\"bodies\") and control structures (\"brains\") evolve over time against a user's predefined fitness landscape (for instance, evolving for speed), or spontaneously coevolve in a complex environment. Evolution of organisms occurs primarily through artificial selection, where an intelligent selector chooses the selection parameters and mutation rates. Also the organisms rate of crossing-over can be chosen thus reflecting the sharing of genes by mating in nature. The simulated organisms have genetic scripts inspired by DNA found in living organisms in nature. A user can isolate a particular organism in the gene pool and edit its genotype. Framsticks allows users to design organisms or manually edit the living genetic code of an organism. Users have the ability to seed the environment with energy orbs that the organisms convert to energy and material. Depending on how the organism does in its lifespan determines the future of the virtual gene pool. Gene pools can be exported and shared.\n\nThe bodies are made up of various building blocks that are assembled according to a genetic script. Building blocks include: a rotator, hinge, muscle, structure, and receptor.\n\nThe brains are basic neural networks that show up as a network of firing neurons. The genetic script serves as the blueprints for the exact assembly and functioning of the neural network.\n\nThe world or ‘universe’ can be set to height-field editable as blocks and/or steep planes, ‘water’, flat, or a combination of all these and be edited by user as map in simple text-format. It has adjustable gravitation and water-level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2663763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2663763", "title": "Geoscience Australia", "text": "Geoscience Australia\n\nGeoscience Australia is an agency of the Australian Government. It carries out geoscientific research. The agency is the government's technical adviser on all aspects of geoscience, and custodian of the geographic and geological data and knowledge of the nation.\n\nOn a user pays basis it produces geospatial products such as topographic maps and satellite imagery. It is also a major contributor to the Australian Government's free, open data collections such as data.gov.au.\n\nThe agency has six strategic priority areas:\n\nGeoscience Australia came into being in 2001 when the Australian Surveying and Land Information Group (AUSLIG) merged with the Australian Geological Survey Organisation (AGSO). Its history dates back almost to Federation in 1901 when it was decided to set aside land for the national capital. This decision led to the establishment of the Australian Survey Office in 1910, when surveying began for the Australian Capital Territory.\n\nAUSLIG's main function was to provide national geographic information. It was formed in 1987, when the Australian Survey Office joined with the Division of National Mapping, which was formed in 1947. Another important component of AUSLIG was the provision of satellite imagery to industry and government, started by the Australian Landsat Station in 1979, renamed the Australian Centre for Remote Sensing (ACRES) in 1986.\n\nAGSO's predecessor organisation the Bureau of Mineral Resources, Geology and Geophysics (BMR) was established in 1946; with the name changing to AGSO in 1992.\n\nThe BMR was a geological survey with the main objective was the systematic geological and geophysical mapping of the continent as the basis for informed mineral exploration.\n\nGeoscience Australia's activities have expanded and today it has responsibility for meeting the Australian Government's geoscience requirements. This role takes the Agency well beyond its historic focus on resource development and topographic mapping to topics as diverse as natural hazards such as tsunami and earthquakes, environmental issues, including the impacts of climate change, groundwater research, marine and coastal research, carbon capture and storage and vegetation monitoring as well as Earth observations from space. Geoscience Australia's remit also extends beyond the Australian landmass to Australia's vast marine jurisdiction.\n\nIt has a free place name search and its earthquake monitoring services can be freely accessed. The Library is the premier geoscience library in Australia providing services to geoscience organisations, universities, research centres, the mining and petroleum industries and the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9105950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9105950", "title": "Global Ocean Data Analysis Project", "text": "Global Ocean Data Analysis Project\n\nThe Global Ocean Data Analysis Project (GLODAP) is a synthesis project bringing together oceanographic data, featuring two major releases as of 2018. The central goal of GLODAP is to generate a global climatology of the World Ocean's carbon cycle for use in studies of both its natural and anthropogenically-forced states. GLODAP is funded by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), and the National Science Foundation (NSF).\n\nThe first GLODAP release (v1.1) was produced from data collected during the 1990s by research cruises on the World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE), Joint Global Ocean Flux Study (JGOFS) and Ocean-Atmosphere Exchange Study (OACES) programmes. The second GLODAP release (v2) extended the first using data from cruises from 2000—2013. The data are available both as individual \"bottle data\" from sample sites, and as interpolated fields on a standard longitude, latitude, depth grid.\n\nThe GLODAPv1.1 climatology contains analysed fields of \"present day\" (1990s) dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC), alkalinity, carbon-14 (C), CFC-11 and CFC-12. The fields consist of three-dimensional, objectively-analysed global grids at 1° horizontal resolution, interpolated onto 33 standardised vertical intervals from the surface (0 m) to the abyssal seafloor (5500 m). In terms of temporal resolution, the relative scarcity of the source data mean that, unlike the World Ocean Atlas, averaged fields are only produced for the annual time-scale. The GLODAP climatology is missing data in certain oceanic provinces including the Arctic Ocean, the Caribbean Sea, the Mediterranean Sea and Maritime Southeast Asia.\n\nAdditionally, analysis has attempted to separate natural from anthropogenic DIC, to produce fields of pre-industrial (18th century) DIC and \"present day\" anthropogenic CO. This separation allows estimation of the magnitude of the ocean sink for anthropogenic CO, and is important for studies of phenomena such as ocean acidification. However, as anthropogenic DIC is chemically and physically identical to natural DIC, this separation is difficult. GLODAP used a mathematical technique known as C* (C-star) to deconvolute anthropogenic from natural DIC (there are a number of alternative methods). This uses information about ocean biogeochemistry and CO surface disequilibium together with other ocean tracers including carbon-14, CFC-11 and CFC-12 (which indicate water mass age) to try to separate out natural CO from that added during the ongoing anthropogenic transient. The technique is not straightforward and has associated errors, although it is gradually being refined to improve it. Its findings are generally supported by independent predictions made by dynamic models.\n\nThe GLODAPv2 climatology largely repeats the earlier format, but makes use of the large number of observations of the ocean's carbon cycle made over the intervening period (2000—2013). The analysed \"present-day\" fields in the resulting dataset are normalised to year 2002. Anthropogenic carbon was estimated in GLODAPv2 using a \"transit-time distribution\" (TTD) method (an approach using a Green's function).\n\nThe following panels show sea surface concentrations of fields prepared by GLODAPv1.1. The \"pre-industrial\" is the 18th century, while \"present-day\" is approximately the 1990s.\n\nThe following panels show sea surface concentrations of fields prepared by GLODAPv2. The \"pre-industrial\" is the 18th century, while \"present-day\" is normalised to 2002. Note that these properties are shown in mass units (per kilogram of seawater) rather than the volume units (per cubic metre of seawater) used in the GLODAPv1.1 panels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23582155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23582155", "title": "Grid code", "text": "Grid code\n\nA grid code is a technical specification which defines the\nparameters a facility connected to a public electric network has to meet to ensure safe, secure and economic proper functioning of the electric system. The facility can be an electricity generating plant, a consumer, or another network.\nThe grid code is specified by an authority responsible for the system integrity and network operation. \nIts elaboration usually implicates network operators (distribution or transmission system operators), representatives of users and, to an extent varying between countries, the regulating body.\n\nContents of a grid code vary depending on the transmission company's requirements. Typically a grid code will specify the required behavior of a connected generator during system disturbances. These include voltage regulation, power factor limits and reactive power supply, response to a system fault (short-circuit), response to frequency changes on the grid, and requirement to \"ride through\" short interruptions of the connection. \nAll generators including Independent power producers like photovoltaic power stations or wind farms have to comply with the grid code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3103632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3103632", "title": "Henry Beston", "text": "Henry Beston\n\nHenry Beston (June 1, 1888 – April 15, 1968) was an American writer and naturalist, best known as the author of \"The Outermost House\", written in 1928.\n\nBorn Henry Beston Sheahan, he was born and grew up in Quincy, Massachusetts with his parents, Dr. Joseph Sheahan and Marie Louise (Maurice) Beston Sheahan, and brother George, a doctor. Beston attended Adams Academy in Quincy before earning his B.A. (1909) and M.A. (1911) from Harvard College. While at Harvard, he lived at the historic Parson Capen House in Topsfield, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1912, Beston took up teaching at the University of Lyon. In 1914 he returned to Harvard as an English department assistant. Beston joined the French army in 1915 and served as an ambulance driver. His service in le Bois le Pretre and at the Battle of Verdun was described in his first book, \"A Volunteer Poilu\". In 1918, Beston became a press representative for the U.S. Navy. Highlights from this period include being the only American correspondent to travel with the British Grand Fleet and to be aboard an American destroyer during combat engagement and sinking. His second book of journalistic work, \"Full Speed Ahead\", described these experiences.\n\nFollowing the end of World War I, Beston began writing fairy tales under the name \"Henry Beston\". In 1919, \"The Firelight Fairy Book\" was published, followed by \"The Starlight Wonder Book\" in 1923. During this time, he worked as an editor of \"The Living Age\", an offshoot of \"The Atlantic Monthly\". He also met his future wife Elizabeth Coatsworth, a fellow author of children's literature with whom he had two daughters, Margaret and Catherine.[3]:97 They lived at Hingham, Massachusetts, and Chimney Farm in Nobleboro, Maine.[6], during this time.\n\n\"The Outermost House\", now considered a Cape Cod nature literary classic, was written after Beston spent what he called \"a year of life on the Great Beach of Cape Cod\". Spiritually shaken by his experiences in World War I, Beston retreated to the outer beach at Eastham in search of peace and solitude.\n\n\"Nature is part of our humanity, and without some awareness of that divine mystery man ceases to be man,\" Beston wrote.\n\nBeston, who dedicated himself as a \"writer/naturalist\", is considered one of the fathers of the modern environmental movement, and \"The Outermost House\" has been called one of the motivating factors behind the establishment of the Cape Cod National Seashore. Author Rachel Carson said that Beston was the only author who ever influenced her writing.\n\nThe 20x16 house, dubbed \"the Fo'castle\" by Beston, was built by Eastham carpenter Harvey Moore in the late spring of 1925. Beston stayed there, on and off, for about two years, leaving the beach occasionally, but was usually on the beach for the many severe storms that struck the Cape in the winter. His house was located two miles south of the Nauset Coast Guard Station, with the Atlantic Ocean near his front door and Nauset Marsh behind him. His only neighbors were the Coast Guardsmen, who patrolled the beach.\n\n\"The Outermost House\" was published in 1928, and has gone through dozens of printings since then. An audiobook version was released in 2007.\n\nBeston married writer Elizabeth Coatsworth in 1929, and the couple eventually bought a farmhouse called \"Chimney Farm\" in Nobleboro, Maine. Beston wrote several more books while living in Maine (\"Northern Farm\" and \"Herbs and the Earth\" among them), but never again approached the overall quality that he achieved in \"The Outermost House\".\n\nIn the 1940s, Beston received honorary doctorates from Bowdoin College, Dartmouth College, and University of Maine and was made honorary member of Phi Beta Kappa at Harvard. He was also made honorary editor of \"National Audubon Magazine\". In 1949, a twentieth-anniversary edition of \"The Outermost House\" was released. Beston also edited an anthology of writings about Maine, \"White Pine and Blue Water\" (1950).\n\nBeston lectured regularly at Dartmouth College and wrote for publications like \"The Atlantic\" and Christian Science Monitor throughout the 1950s. He also revised his earlier work in children's literature and published \"Henry Beston's Fairy Tales\" in 1952. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AAAS) in 1954. In 1959, he was the third recipient of the AAAS' Emerson-Thoreau Medal, previously awarded to only Robert Frost and T. S. Eliot.\n\nBeston donated the \"Fo'castle\" to the Massachusetts Audubon Society in 1959. One of its tenants was a woman from Sharon, Massachusetts named Nan Turner Waldron, who would spend several weeks each year there from 1961 to 1977. Her experiences are chronicled in the book \"Journey to Outermost House\".\n\nWith his health deteriorating, Beston returned to the beach in Eastham one last time on October 11, 1964, when his famous house was dedicated as a National Literary Landmark. Beston died on April 15, 1968 in Nobleboro, Maine, and is buried in a small cemetery at Chimney Farm. Chimney Farm was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2007.\n\nThe house was carried away by extreme high tides during a winter hurricane in February 1978. Waldron wrote that thousands still come to the beach each year, wanting to learn more about this man who retreated to the outer beach \"in a search for the great truth, and found it in the spirit of man,\" as his National Literary Landmark dedication plaque read. \"Many know the book, some carry it with them,\" Waldron wrote. \"Still they come, pilgrims of a sort- stirred by his sense of wonder but drawn by his vision of hope.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93104", "title": "Kachina", "text": "Kachina\n\nA kachina (; also katchina, katcina, or katsina; Hopi: \"katsina\" , plural \"katsinim\" ) is a spirit being in the religious beliefs of the Pueblo people, Native American cultures located in the southwestern part of the United States. In the Pueblo culture, kachina rituals are practiced by the Hopi, Zuni, Hopi-Tewa and certain Keresan tribes. The kachina concept has three different aspects: the supernatural being, the \"kachina dancers\" (masked members of the community who represent kachinas at religious ceremonies), and \"kachina dolls\", small dolls carved in the likeness of kachinas given as gifts to children.\n\nKachinas are spirits or personifications of things in the real world. These spirits are believed to visit the Hopi villages during the first half of the year. A kachina can represent anything in the natural world or cosmos, from a revered ancestor to an element, a location, a quality, a natural phenomenon, or a concept. The local pantheon of kachinas varies in each pueblo community; there may be kachinas for the sun, stars, thunderstorms, wind, corn, insects, and many other concepts. Kachinas are understood as having humanlike relationships; they may have uncles, sisters, and grandmothers, and may marry and have children. Although not worshipped, each is viewed as a powerful being who, if given veneration and respect, can use his particular power for human good, bringing rainfall, healing, fertility, or protection, for example. One observer has written:\n\nThe central theme of the kachina [religion] is the presence of life in all objects that fill the universe. Everything has an essence or a life force, and humans must interact with these or fail to survive.\n\nThe exact origin of the kachinas is not completely known, but according to one version of Hopi belief, the kachinas were spirit-beings who came with the Hopis from the underworld. The underworld is a concept common to all the Pueblo Indians. It is a place where the spirits or shades live: the newly born come from there and the dead return there. The kachinas wandered with the Hopis over the world until they arrived at Casa Grande, where both the Hopis and the kachinas settled for a while. With their powerful ceremonies, the kachinas brought rain for the crops and were in general of much help and comfort. Unfortunately, all of the kachinas were killed when the Hopis were attacked by enemies and their souls returned to the underworld. Since the sacred paraphernalia of the kachinas were left behind, the Hopis began impersonating the kachinas, wearing their masks and costumes, and imitating their ceremonies in order to bring rain, good crops, and life's happiness.\nAnother version says that in an early period, the kachinas danced for the Hopis, bringing them rain and all the many blessings of life. But eventually, the Hopis came to take the kachinas for granted, losing all respect and reverence for them, so the kachinas finally left and returned to the underworld. However, before they left, the kachinas taught some of their ceremonies to a few faithful young men and showed them how to make the masks and costumes. When the other Hopi realized their loss, they remorsefully turned to the human substitute of kachinas, and the ceremonies have continued since then.\n\nIn many ways the Kachina Cult and its rituals are the most important ceremonial observances in the Hopi religious calendar. Within Hopi religion, the kachinas are said to live on the San Francisco Peaks near Flagstaff, Arizona. To the Hopis, the name primarily refers to the supernatural beings who visit the villages to help the Hopis with everyday activities and act as a link between gods and mortals. These spirits are then impersonated by men who dress up in costumes and masks to perform ceremonial dances throughout the year. The most highly anticipated ceremony is the Powamuya Ceremony (bean dance). There are hundreds of different kachinas practiced by the Hopi. In addition, the wooden carvings of these spirits are also made to give to the children to help them identify the many kachinas. Overall, the kachinas can generally be said to represent historical events and things in nature, and are used to educate children in the ways of life.\n\nThe most important Hopi kachinas are known as \"wuya\". In Hopi, the word is often used to represent the spiritual beings themselves (said to be connected with the Fifth World, Taalawsohu), the dolls, or the people who dress as kachinas for ceremonial dances, which are understood to embody all aspects of the same belief system. These are some of the wuyas:\n\nThe Hopi are not the only Pueblo tribe to observe the Kachina Cult in its religious calendar. The Zuni also have a religious solar calendar which is practiced year-round. The Zuni Kachina Cult is one of the six major cults of Zuni. There are a number of kachinas that represent space and time in the Zuni religion. One of the most famous and widely known ceremonies is the Shalako Ceremony. There are a number of other ceremonies and rituals; some are public, however, many of them are kept in secret. It is hard to specify the total number of kachinas in the Zuni religion because the Zuni do not believe in using or exploiting their kachinas for open public economic gain and believe they should be kept in private. It is believed that some of the older kachina rituals are no longer practiced, but there are new ones that have been introduced. In addition, it is believed that there are hundreds of different kachina rituals that are practiced in the Zuni religion. The Zuni Kachina Cult is not constant, it changes to space and time.\n\nThe Zuni believe that the kachinas live in the Lake of the Dead, a mythical lake which is reached through Listening Spring Lake. This is located at the junction of the Zuni River and the Little Colorado River. Although some archaeological investigations have taken place, they have not been able to clarify which tribe, Zuni or Hopi, developed the Kachina Cult first. Both Zuni and Hopi kachinas are different from each other but have certain similarities and features. In addition, both Zuni and Hopi kachinas are highly featured and detailed, while the kachinas of the Rio Grande Pueblos look primitive in feature. The Hopis have built their cult into a more elaborate ritual, and seem to have a greater sense of drama and artistry than the Zunis. On the other hand, the latter have developed a more sizable folklore concerning their kachinas.\n\nKachina dolls are small brightly painted wooden \"dolls\" which are miniature representations of the masked impersonators. These figurines are given to children not as toys, but as objects to be treasured and studied so that the young Hopis may become familiar with the appearance of the kachinas as part of their religious training. During Kachina ceremonies, each child receives their own doll. The dolls are then taken home and hung up on the walls or from the rafters of the house, so that they can be constantly seen by the children. The purpose of this is to help the children learn to know what the different kachinas look like. It is said that the Hopi recognize over 200 kachinas and many more were invented in the last half of the nineteenth century. Among the Hopi, kachina dolls are traditionally carved by the maternal uncles and given to uninitiated girls at the Bean Dance (Spring Bean Planting Ceremony) and Home Dance Ceremony in the summer. These dolls are very difficult to classify not only because the Hopis have a vague idea about their appearance and function, but also because these ideas differ from mesa to mesa and pueblo to pueblo.\n\nMany Pueblo Indians, particularly the Hopi and Zuni, have ceremonies in which masked men, called kachinas, play an important role. Masked members of the tribe dress up as kachinas for religious ceremonies that take place many times throughout the year. These ceremonies are social occasions for the village, where friends and relatives are able to come from neighboring towns to see the \"dance\" and partake in the feasts that are always prepared. When a Hopi man places a mask upon his head and wears the appropriate costume and body paint, he believes that he has lost his personal identity and has received the spirit of the kachina he is supposed to represent. Besides the male kachinas are many female kachinas called kachin-manas, but women never take the part of male and female kachinas.\n\nHopi clowns are an integral part of Hopi Kachina ceremonials where they participate in sacred rituals as well as unique clown performances—some with direct contact with the spectators. The clown's performance centers on humor and entertainment, but also they monitor the assembled crowd and provide policing activities over both the Kachina performers and the audience. Mockery is a tool used to warn spectators of non-Hopi behavior, and generally long remembered by the recipient of clown attention.\n\nThe clown personages play dual roles. Their prominent role is to amuse the audience during the extended periods of the outdoor celebrations and Kachina Dances where they perform as jesters or circus clowns. Their more subtle and sacred role is in the Hopis' ritual performances. The sacred functions of the clowns are relatively private, if not held secret by the Hopi, and as a result have received less public exposure. When observing the preparations taking place in a Kiva of a number of \"Pai'yakyamu\" clowns getting ready for their ceremonial performance, Alexander Stephen was told, \"We \"Koyala\" [Koshari] are the fathers of all Kachina.\"\nThe Hopi have four groups of clowns, some are sacred. Adding to the difficulty in identifying and classifying these groups, there are a number of kachinas whose actions are identified as clown antics. Barton Wright's \"Clowns of the Hopi\" identifies, classifies, and illustrates the extensive array of clown personages.\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "894711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894711", "title": "List of Acacia species", "text": "List of Acacia species\n\nSeveral cladistic analyses have shown that the genus Acacia is not monophyletic. While the subg. \"Acacia\" and subg. \"Phyllodinae\" are monophyletic, subg. \"Aculeiferum\" is not. This subgenus consists of three clades. Therefore, the following list of \"Acacia\" species cannot be maintained as a single entity, and must either be split up, or broadened to include species previously not in the genus. This genus has been provisionally divided into 5 genera, \"Acacia\", \"Vachellia\", \"Senegalia\", \"Acaciella\" and \"Mariosousa\". The proposed type species of \"Acacia\" is \"Acacia penninervis\".\n\nWhich of these segregate genera is to retain the name \"Acacia\" has been controversial. The genus was previously typified with the African species \"Acacia scorpioides\" , a synonym of \"Acacia nilotica\" . Under the original typification, the name \"Acacia\" would stay with the group of species currently recognized as the genus \"Vachellia\". Orchard and Maslin proposed a retypification of the genus \"Acacia\" with the species \"Acacia penninervis\" , an Australian species that is a member of the largest clade within \"Acacia\", a primarily Australian group formerly recognized as \"Acacia\" subgenus \"Phyllodinae\", on the basis that this results in the fewest nomenclatural changes. Although this proposal met with strong disagreement by some authors, it was accepted on 16 July 2005 by the XVII International Botanical Congress in Vienna, Austria. Consequently, the name \"Acacia\" is conserved for 948 Australian species, 7 in the Pacific Islands, 1 or 2 in Madagascar and 10 in tropical Asia. Those outside Australia are split between the genera \"Acaciella\", \"Mariosousa\", \"Senegalia\", and \"Vachellia\". This decision was upheld at the 2011 Congress.\n\nIn its new circumscription, the genus \"Acacia\" (now limited to the Australian species) has seven subgenera—\"Alatae\" (an artificial section), \"Botrycephalae\", \"Juliflorae\", \"Lycopodiifoliae\", \"Plurinerves\", \"Phyllodinae\", and \"Pulchellae\" (see below). The other species, distributed in the Indian Ocean, tropical Asia and tropical America are now classified under \nTwo Australian acacias were re-classified under \"Vachellia\", and another two under \"Senegalia\".\n\nThis is a list of species that belong to \"Acacia sensu stricto\". For species that have been transferred to other genera, see \"Acaciella\", \"Mariosousa\", \"Senegalia\", and \"Vachellia\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9019111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9019111", "title": "List of Erythranthe, monkey-flower diseases", "text": "List of Erythranthe, monkey-flower diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of \"Erythranthe \" (formerly \"Mimulus\"), Monkey-Flower (\"Erythranthe × hybridus\") as reported by the American Phytopathological Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "10870256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10870256", "title": "List of Japan natural gas companies", "text": "List of Japan natural gas companies\n\nThis is a list of Japanese natural gas companies.\n\nMajor suppliers:\n\nSemi-major suppliers:\n\n"}
{"id": "6738532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6738532", "title": "List of Pennsylvania hurricanes", "text": "List of Pennsylvania hurricanes\n\nThe following is a list of tropical cyclones that affected the U.S. state of Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2082257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2082257", "title": "List of Psilocybe species", "text": "List of Psilocybe species\n\nThis is a list of species in the agaric genus \"Psilocybe\".\n\nA B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V U W X Y Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23261765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23261765", "title": "List of Superfund sites in Texas", "text": "List of Superfund sites in Texas\n\nThis is a list of Superfund sites in Texas designated under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) environmental law. The CERCLA federal law of 1980 authorized the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to create a list of polluted locations requiring a long-term response to clean up hazardous material contaminations. These locations are known as Superfund sites, and are placed on the National Priorities List (NPL). \n\nThe NPL guides the EPA in \"determining which sites warrant further investigation\" for environmental remediation. As of September 6, 2017, there are 53 Superfund sites on the National Priorities List in Texas. One new site has been proposed for inclusion on the list. Twelve additional sites have been cleaned up and are considered deleted, with no further action required. One NPL site included in this list, Motco, Inc., has been designated as the state's Top Priority Site. According to CERCLA, states may make only one such designation and is one that the State has identified as presenting the greatest danger to public health, welfare, or the environment among the known facilities in that State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54391326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54391326", "title": "List of countries by extreme temperatures", "text": "List of countries by extreme temperatures\n\nThis is a list of countries by lowest and highest temperature ever recorded.\n"}
{"id": "37881542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37881542", "title": "List of glaciers in the Antarctic: I–Z", "text": "List of glaciers in the Antarctic: I–Z\n\nThis is a list of glaciers in the Antarctic with a name starting with the letters I–Z. This list does not include ice sheets, ice caps or ice fields, such as the Antarctic ice sheet, but includes glacial features that are defined by their flow, rather than general bodies of ice. This list includes outlet glaciers, valley glaciers, cirque glaciers, tidewater glaciers and ice streams. Ice streams are a type of glacier and many of them have \"glacier\" in their name, e.g. Pine Island Glacier. Ice shelves are listed separately in the List of Antarctic ice shelves. For the purposes of this list, the Antarctic is defined as any latitude further south than 60° (the continental limit according to the Antarctic Treaty System).\n\n"}
{"id": "52516847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52516847", "title": "List of named storms (U–Z)", "text": "List of named storms (U–Z)\n\nTropical cyclones are named for historical reasons to avoid confusion when communicating with the public, as more than one tropical cyclone can exist at a time. Names are drawn in order from predetermined lists and are usually assigned to tropical cyclones with one-, three- or ten-minute windspeeds of more than . However, standards vary from basin to basin with some tropical depressions named in the Western Pacific whilst tropical cyclones have to have gale-force winds occurring more than halfway around the center within the Australian and Southern Pacific regions.\n\nThis is a list of storm names beginning with the letter U–Z.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22462329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22462329", "title": "List of nature deities", "text": "List of nature deities\n\nIn nature worship, a nature deity is a deity in charge of forces of nature such as water deity, vegetation deity, sky deity, solar deity, fire deity or any other naturally occurring phenomena such as mountains, trees, or volcanoes. Accepted in panentheism, pantheism, deism, polytheism, animism, totemism, shamanism and paganism the deity embodies natural forces and can have characteristics of the mother goddess, Mother Nature or lord of the animals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTwelve Deities of Flowers\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47022443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47022443", "title": "List of parks and gardens in Hamburg", "text": "List of parks and gardens in Hamburg\n\nList of parks and gardens in the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg.\n\nHamburg is one of Europe's greenest metropolises, with parks and gardens alone making up eight percent of the city's land area, in addition to even larger percentages for nature reserves and agricultural land areas. In 2011, the city was voted \"European Green Capital\", in 2013 Hamburg hosted the International Garden Show (IGS) on the island of Wilhelmsburg.\n\nList of public urban parks in Hamburg. The list does not include protected areas such as forests or nature reserves, nor Hamburg's many park-like cemeteries. \n\nPhoto impressions of Hamburg parks: \n\nList of public gardens in Hamburg. In some cases, a strict distinction between park or garden may be difficult. \n\nPhoto impressions of Hamburg gardens: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37619620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37619620", "title": "List of passes of the Rocky Mountains", "text": "List of passes of the Rocky Mountains\n\nThe Rocky Mountains of North America include more than one thousand named mountain passes (topographic saddle points).\n"}
{"id": "25323829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25323829", "title": "List of rivers of South Ossetia", "text": "List of rivers of South Ossetia\n\nThere are many mountain rivers in the territory of South Ossetia. The majority of them belong to the Kura drainage basin which flows into the Caspian Sea, the remainder are part of the Rioni River catchment which flows into the Black Sea. The Rachinsky and Lihsky ridges act as the watershed separating the drainage basins into these two seas.\n\nList of rivers in order from the mouth:\n\nKura\n\nRioni River\n\nMap \"Юго-Осетинская автономная область\" К — 38 — 64. Издание 1989 г.\n"}
{"id": "3004871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3004871", "title": "Lutetian", "text": "Lutetian\n\nThe Lutetian is, in the geologic timescale, a stage or age in the Eocene. It spans the time between . The Lutetian is preceded by the Ypresian and is followed by the Bartonian. Together with the Bartonian it is sometimes referred to as the Middle Eocene subepoch. \n\nThe Lutetian was named after Lutetia, the Latin name for the city of Paris. The Lutetian stage was introduced in scientific literature by French geologist Albert de Lapparent in 1883 and revised by A. Blondeau in 1981.\n\nThe base of the Lutetian stage is at the first appearance of the nanofossil \"Blackites inflatus\", according to an official reference profile (GSSP) established in 2009. Of two candidates located in Spain, the Gorrondatxe section was chosen.\n\nThe top of the Lutetian (the base of the Bartonian) is at the first appearance of calcareous nanoplankton species \"Reticulofenestra reticulata\".\n\nThe Lutetian overlaps with the Geiseltalian and lower Robiacian European Land Mammal Mega Zones (The Lutetian stage spans the Mammal Paleogene zones 11 through 15.), the upper Bridgerian and Uintan North American Land Mammal Ages, the upper Arshantan and Irdinmanhan Asian Land Mammal Ages and the Mustersan and lower Divisaderan South American Land Mammal Ages. It is also coeval with the middle Johannian regional stage of Australia and the upper Ulatisian and lower Nanzian regional stages of California.\n\n"}
{"id": "15585006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15585006", "title": "Michel van der Aa", "text": "Michel van der Aa\n\nMichel van der Aa (; born 10 March 1970) is a Dutch composer of contemporary classical music.\n\nMichel van der Aa was born 10 March 1970 in Oss. He trained as a recording engineer at the Royal Conservatory of The Hague, and studied composition with Diderik Wagenaar, Gilius van Bergeijk and Louis Andriessen.\n\nThe music of van der Aa has been performed by ensembles and orchestras internationally. Those include the Asko/Schönberg Ensemble, Freiburger Barockorchester, Ensemble Modern, Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra, Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, De Nederlandse Opera, Mozarteum Orchestra of Salzburg, Seattle Chamber Players, Ensemble Nomad Tokyo, musikFabrik, Continuum Ensemble Toronto, SWR Orchestra Baden-Baden & Freiburg, Netherlands Radio Orchestras, Norrköping Symphony Orchestra Sweden, and the Helsinki Avanti Ensemble.\n\nHe completed a short program in film directing at the New York Film Academy in 2002. He also participated in the Lincoln Center Theater Director's Lab, a short, intensive course in stage direction in 2007.\n\nMichel van der Aa's music theatre works, including the chamber opera \"One\" (2002), the opera \"After Life\" (2006, Amsterdam) and the music theatre work \"The Book of Disquiet\", have received international critical and public acclaim. The innovative aspect of these operas is their use of film images and sampled soundtracks as an essential element of the score. Staging, film and music are interwoven into a collage of transparent layers, resulting in a work that is part documentary film and part philosophy.\n\nHe directed the television production of \"One\" for the Dutch national broadcasting company NPS. \"Passage\" (2004), a short film by van der Aa, has been shown at several international festivals and has been aired on Dutch national television.\n\nHe has been a featured artist at the Perth Tura New Music Festival and Holland Festival. He has collaborated with choreographers such as Kazuko Hirabayashi, Philippe Blanchard, Ben Wright and Annabelle Lopez Ochoa.\n\nVan der Aa was recipient of the Gaudeamus International Composers Award in 1999. He also received the prestigious Matthijs Vermeulen Award for \"One\" in 2004. He received the Siemens Composers Prize in 2005. He also received the Charlotte Köhler Prize for his directing work and the interdisciplinary character of his oeuvre in the same year. He was awarded the Hindemith Prize of the Schleswig-Holstein Musik Festival in 2006.\n\nIn November 2012 it was announced that van der Aa would be the recipient of the 2013 University of Louisville Grawemeyer Award in Music Composition, for his cello concerto \"Up-Close\", a 'highly innovative fusion of musical and visual art' written for Sol Gabetta and the Amsterdam Sinfonietta. In 2013 he won the Mauricio Kagel Music Prize.\n\nVan der Aa has recently completed a new 3D film-opera entitled \"Sunken Garden\", in collaboration with David Mitchell, author of \"Cloud Atlas\", \"Sunken Garden\" is a joint commission from English National Opera, Barbican Centre, Toronto Luminato Festival, Opera National de Lyon, and the Holland Festival, and was given its première by English National Opera under André de Ridder at the Barbican Centre, London, on 12 April 2013, with Roderick Williams in the role of Toby.\n\nForthcoming projects include a clarinet concerto for the London Sinfonietta to be premiered in April 2014 and new pieces for the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra as part of his long-term partnership with that group, which will include a large orchestral work, a solo concerto, and an evening-length Passion setting for soloists, choir and orchestra, expected to première in 2017.\n\nHis music is recorded on the Harmonia Mundi, Col Legno, Composers’ Voice, BVHaast, and VPRO Eigenwijs labels, as well as his own label Disquiet Media.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2522070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2522070", "title": "Multiferroics", "text": "Multiferroics\n\nMultiferroics are defined as materials that exhibit more than one of the primary ferroic properties:\nin the same phase. While ferroelectric ferroelastics and ferromagnetic ferroelastics are formally multiferroics, these days the term is usually used to describe the \"magnetoelectric multiferroics\" that are simultaneously ferromagnetic and ferroelectric. Sometimes the definition is expanded to include non-primary order parameters, such as antiferromagnetism or ferrimagnetism. In addition other types of primary order, such as ferroic arrangements of magneotelectric multipoles of which ferrotoroidicity is an example, have also been recently proposed.\n\nBesides scientific interest in their physical properties, multiferroics have potential for applications as actuators, switches, magnetic field sensors or new types of electronic memory devices.\n\nA Web of Science search for the term \"multiferroic*\" yields the year 2000 paper \"Why are there so few magnetic ferroelectrics?\" from N. A. Spaldin (then Hill) as the earliest result. This work explained the origin of the contraindication between magnetism and ferroelectricity and proposed practical routes to circumvent it, and is widely credited with starting the modern explosion of interest in multiferroic materials. (An article on how Spaldin arrived at the question is here). The availability of practical routes to creating multiferroic materials from 2000 stimulated intense activity. Particularly key early works were the discovery of large ferroelectric polarization in epitaxially grown thin films of magnetic BiFeO, the observation that the non-collinear magnetic ordering in orthorhombic TbMnO and TbMnO causes ferroelectricity, and the identification of unusual improper ferroelectricity that is compatible with the coexistence of magnetism in hexagonal manganite YMnO. The graph to the right shows in red the number of papers on multiferroics from a Web of Science search until 2008; the exponential increase continues today.\n\nTo place multiferroic materials in their appropriate historical context, one also needs to consider magnetoelectric materials, in which an electric field modifies the magnetic properties and vice versa. While magnetoelectric materials are not necessarily multiferroic, all ferromagnetic ferroelectric multiferroics are linear magnetoelectrics, with an applied electric field inducing a change in magnetization linearly proportional to its magnitude. Magnetoelectric materials and the corresponding magnetoelectric effect have a longer history than multiferroics, shown in blue in the graph to the right. The first known mention of magnetoelectricity is in the 1959 Edition of Landau & Lifshitz' \"Electrodynamics of Continuous Media\" which has the following comment at the end of the section on piezoelectricity: \"“Let us point out two more phenomena, which, in principle, could exist. One is piezomagnetism, which consists of linear coupling between a magnetic field in a solid and a deformation (analogous to piezoelectricity). The other is a linear coupling between magnetic and electric fields in a media, which would cause, for example, a magnetization proportional to an electric field. Both these phenomena could exist for certain classes of magnetocrystalline symmetry. We will not however discuss these phenomena in more detail because it seems that till present, presumably, they have not been observed in any substance.”\" One year later, I. E. Dzyaloshinskii showed using symmetry arguments that the material CrO should have linear magnetoelectric behavior, and his prediction was rapidly verified by D. Astrov. Over the next decades, research on magnetoelectric materials continued steadily in a number of groups in Europe, in particular in the former Soviet Union and in the group of H. Schmid at U. Geneva. A series of East-West conferences entitled Magnetoelectric Interaction Phenomena in Crystals (MEIPIC) was held between 1973 (in Seattle) and 2009 (in Santa Barbara), and indeed the term \"multi-ferroic magnetoelectric\" was first used by H. Schmid in the proceedings of the 1993 MEIPIC conference (in Ascona).\n\nThe formation of a ferroic order is always associated with the breaking of a symmetry. For example, the symmetry of spatial inversion is broken when ferroelectrics develop their electric dipole moment, and time reversal is broken when ferromagnets become magnetic. The symmetry breaking can be described by an order parameter, the polarization P and magnetization M in these two examples, and leads to multiple equivalent ground states which can be selected by the appropriate conjugate field; electric or magnetic for ferroelectrics or ferromagnets respectively. This leads for example to the familiar switching of magnetic bits using magnetic fields in magnetic data storage.\n\nFerroics are often characterized by the behavior of their order parameters under space inversion and time reversal (see table). The operation of space inversion reverses the direction of polarization (this is known as space-inversion antisymmetric) while leaving the magnetization invariant. As a result non-polar ferromagnets and ferroelastics are invariant under space inversion whereas polar ferroelectrics are not. The operation of time reversal, on the other hand, changes the sign of M (which is therefore time-reversal antisymmetric), while the sign of P remains invariant. Therefore non-magnetic ferroelastics and ferroelectrics are invariant under time reversal whereas ferromagnets are not. \nMagnetoelectric multiferroics are both space-inversion and time-reversal anti-symmetric since they are both ferromagnetic and ferroelectric.\n\nImportantly, the combination of symmetry breakings in multiferroics can lead to coupling between the order parameters, so that one ferroic property can be manipulated with the conjugate field of the other. Ferroelastic ferroelectrics, for example are piezoelectric, meaning that an electric field can cause a shape change or a pressure can induce a voltage, and ferroelastic ferromagnets show the analogous piezomagnetic behavior. Particularly appealing for potential technologies is the control of the magnetism with an electric field in magnetoelectric multiferroics, since electric fields have lower energy requirements than their magnetic counterparts.\n\nA helpful classification scheme for multiferroics into so-called type-I and type-II multiferroics was introduced in 2009 by D. Khomskii.\n\nKhomskii suggested the term type-I multiferroic for materials in which the ferroelectricity and magnetism occur at different temperatures and arise from different mechanisms. Usually the structural distortion which gives rise to the ferroelectricity occurs at high temperature, and the magnetic ordering, which is usually antiferromagnetic, sets in at lower temperature. The prototypical example is BiFeO (T=1100 K, T=643 K), with the ferroelectricity driven by the stereochemically active lone pair of the Bi ion and the magnetic ordering caused by the usual superexchange mechanism. YMnO (T=914 K, T=76 K) is also type-I, although its ferroelectricity is improper. The independent emergence of magnetism and ferroelectricity means that the domains of the two properties are not necessarily robustly coupled to each other. In spite of this, most type-I multiferroics show a linear magnetoelectric response, as well as changes in dielectric susceptibility at the magnetic phase transition.\n\nThe term type-II multiferroic is used for materials in which the magnetic ordering breaks the inversion symmetry and directly \"causes\" the ferroelectricity. In this case the ordering temperatures for the two phenomena are identical. The prototypical example is TbMnO, in which a non-centrosymmetric magnetic spiral accompanied by a ferroelectric polarization sets in at 28 K. Since the same transition causes both effects they are by construction strongly coupled. The ferroelectric polarizations tend to be orders of magnitude smaller than those of the type-I multiferroics however, typically of the order of 10 μC/cm.\n\nTo be defined as ferroelectric, a material must have a spontaneous electric polarization that is switchable by an applied electric field. Usually such an electric polarization arises via an inversion-symmetry-breaking structural distortion from a parent centrosymmetric phase. For example, in the prototypical ferroelectric barium titanate, BaTiO, the parent phase is the ideal cubic ABO perovskite structure, with the B-site Ti ion at the center of its oxygen coordination octahedron. In the ferroelectric phase the Ti ion is shifted away from the center of the octahedron causing a polarization. Such a displacement only tends to be favourable when the B-site cation has an electron configuration with an empty \"d\" shell (a so-called \"d\" configuration), which favours energy-lowering covalent bond formation between the B-site cation and the neighbouring oxygen anions.\n\nThis \"d0-ness\" requirement is a clear obstacle for the formation of multiferroics, since the magnetism in most transition-metal oxides arises from the presence of partially filled transition metal \"d\" shells. As a result, in most multiferroics, the ferroelectricity has a different origin. The following describes the mechanisms that are known to circumvent this contraindication between ferromagnetism and ferroelectricity.\n\nIn lone-pair-active multiferroics, the ferroelectric displacement is driven by the A-site cation, and the magnetism arises from a partially filled \"d\" shell on the B site. Examples include bismuth ferrite, BiFeO, BiMnO (although this is believed to be anti-polar), and PbVO. In these materials, the A-site cation (Bi, Pb) has a so-called stereochemically active \"6s\" lone-pair of electrons, and off-centering of the A-site cation is favoured by an energy-lowering electron sharing between the formally empty A-site \"6p\" orbitals and the filled O \"2p\" orbitals.\n\nIn geometric ferroelectrics, the driving force for the structural phase transition leading to the polar ferroelectric state is a rotational distortion of the polyhedra rather than an electron-sharing covalent bond formation. Such rotational distortions occur in many transition-metal oxides; in the perovskites for example they are common when the A-site cation is small, so that the oxygen octahedra collapse around it. In perovskites, the three-dimensional connectivity of the polyhedra means that no net polarization results; if one octahedron rotates to the right, its connected neighbor rotates to the left and so on. In layered materials, however, such rotations can lead to a net polarization.\n\nThe prototypical geometric ferroelectrics are the barium transition metal fluorides, BaMF, M=Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Zn, which have a ferroelectric transition at around 1000K and a magnetic transition to an antiferromagnetic state at around 50K. Since the distortion is not driven by a hybridisation between the d-site cation and the anions, it is compatible with the existence of magnetism on the B site, thus allowing for multiferroic behavior.\n\nA second example is provided by the family of hexagonal rare earth manganites (h-\"R\"MnO with \"R\"=Ho-Lu, Y), which have a structural phase transition at around 1300 K consisting primarily of a tilting of the MnO bipyramids. While the tilting itself has zero polarization, it couples to a polar corrugation of the \"R\"-ion layers which yields a polarisation of ~6µC/cm². Since the ferroelectricity is not the primary order parameter it is described as \"improper\". The multiferroic phase is reached at ~100K when a triangular antiferromagnetic order due to spin frustration arises.\n\nCharge ordering can occur in compounds containing ions of mixed valence when the electrons, which are delocalised at high temperature, localize in an ordered pattern on different cation sites so that the material becomes insulating. When the pattern of localized electrons is polar, the charge ordered state is ferroelectric. Usually the ions in such a case are magnetic and so the ferroelectric state is also multiferroic.\n\nThe first proposed example of a charge ordered multiferroic was LuFeO, which charge orders at 330 K with an arrangement of Fe and Fe ions. Ferrimagnetic ordering occurs below 240 K. Whether or not the charge ordering is polar has recently been questioned, however.\n\nIn addition, charge ordered ferroelectricity is suggested in magnetite, FeO, below its Verwey transition, and (Pr,Ca)MnO.\n\nIn magnetically driven multiferroics the macroscopic electric polarization is induced by long-range magnetic order which is non-centrosymmetric. Like the geometric ferroelectrics discussed above, the ferroelectricity is improper, because the polarization is not the primary order parameter for the transition to the ferroelectric state.\n\nThe prototypical example is the formation of the non-centrosymmetric magnetic spiral state, accompanied by a small ferroelectric polarization, below 28K in TbMnO. In this case the polarization is small, 10 μC/cm, because the mechanism coupling the non-centrosymmetric spin structure to the crystal lattice is the weak spin-orbit coupling. Larger polarizations occur when the non-centrosymmetric magnetic ordering is caused by the stronger superexchange interaction, such as in orthorhombic HoMnO and related materials. In both cases the magnetoelectric coupling is strong because the ferroelectricity is directly caused by the magnetic order.\n\nWhile most magnetoelectric multiferroics developed to date have conventional transition-metal d-electron magnetism and a novel mechanism for the ferroelectricity, it is also possible to introduce a different type of magnetism into a conventional ferroelectric. The most obvious route is to use a rare-earth ion with a partially filled shell of \"f\" electrons on the A site. An example is EuTiO which, while not ferroelectric under ambient conditions, becomes so when strained a little bit, or when its lattice constant is expanded for example by substituting some barium on the A site.\n\nIt remains a challenge to good single-phase multiferroics with large magnetization and polarization and strong coupling between them. Therefore composites combining magnetic and ferroelectric materials, either in layers or mixtures, with coupling provided by the interfaces between them, are an attractive and established route to achieving multiferroicity. Some examples include magnetic thin films on piezoelectric PMN-PT substrates and Metglass/PVDF/Metglass trilayer structures.\n\nRecently there have been reports of large magnetoelectric coupling at room-temperature in type-I multiferroics such as in the \"diluted\" magnetic perovskite (PbZrTiO)–(PbFeTaO) (PZTFT) in certain Aurivillius phases, and in the system (BiFeCoO)-(BiKTiO) (BFC-BKT). Here, strong ME coupling has been observed on a microscopic scale using PFM under magnetic field among other techniques. The latter system, appears to be the first reported core-shell type relaxor ferroelectric multiferroic, where the magnetic structure in so-called \"multiferroic clusters\" is proposed to be due Fe-Co ferrimagnetism, which can be switched by an electric field.\n\nMost multiferroic materials identified to date are transition-metal oxides, which are compounds made of (usually \"3d\") transition metals with oxygen and often an additional main-group cation. Transition-metal oxides are a favorable class of materials for identifying multiferroics for a few reasons:\nMany multiferroics have the perovskite structure. This is in part historical—most of the well-studied ferroelectrics are perovskites—and in part because of the high chemical versatility of the structure.\n\nBelow is a list of some the most well-studied multiferroics with their ferroelectric and magnetic ordering temperatures. When a material shows more than one ferroelectric or magnetic phase transition, the most relevant for the multiferroic behavior is given.\nMultiferroic properties can appear in a large variety of materials. Therefore, several conventional material fabrication routes are used, including solid state synthesis, hydrothermal synthesis, sol-gel processing, vacuum based deposition, and floating zone.\n\nSome types of multiferroics require more specialized processing techniques, such as\n\n\nThe study of dynamics in multiferroic systems is concerned with understanding the time evolution of the coupling between various ferroic orders, in particular under external applied fields. Current research in this field is motivated both by the promise of new types of application reliant on the coupled nature of the dynamics, and the search for new physics lying at the heart of the fundamental understanding of the elementary MF excitations.\n\nAn increasing number of studies of MF dynamics are concerned with the coupling between electric and magnetic order parameters in the so-called magnetoelectric (ME) multiferroics. In this class of materials, the leading research is exploring, both theoretically and experimentally, the fundamental limits (e.g. intrinsic coupling velocity, coupling strength, materials synthesis) of the dynamical ME coupling and how these may be both reached and exploited for the development of new technologies.\n\nAt the heart of the proposed technologies based on ME coupling are switching processes, which describe the manipulation of the material's macroscopic magnetic properties with electric field and vice versa. Much of the physics of these processes is described by the dynamics of domains and domain walls. An important goal for current research is the minimization of the switching time, from fractions of a second ('quasi'-static regime), towards the nanosecond range and faster, the latter being the typical time scale needed for modern electronics, such as next generation memory devices.\n\nUltrafast processes operating at picosecond, femtosecond, and even attosecond scale are both driven by, and studied using, optical methods that are at the front line of modern science. The physics underpinning the observations at these short time scales is governed by non-equilibrium dynamics, and usually makes use of resonant processes. One demonstration of ultrafast processes is the switching from collinear antiferromagnetic state to spiral antiferromagnetic state in CuO under excitation by 40 fs 800 nm laser pulse. A second example shows the possibility for the direct control of spin waves with THz radiation on antiferromagnetic NiO. These are promising demonstrations of how the switching of electric and magnetic properties in multiferroics, mediated by the mixed character of the magnetoelectric dynamics, may lead to ultrafast data processing, communication and quantum computing devices.\n\nCurrent research into MF dynamics aims to address various open questions; the practical realisation and demonstration of ultra-high speed domain switching, the development of further new applications based on tunable dynamics, e.g. frequency dependence of dielectric properties, the fundamental understanding of the mixed character of the excitations (e.g. in the ME case, mixed phonon-magnon modes – 'electromagnons'), and the potential discovery of new physics associated with the MF coupling.\n\nMultiferroic composite structures in bulk form are explored for high-sensitivity ac magnetic field sensors and electrically tunable microwave devices such as filters, oscillators and phase shifters (in which the ferri-, ferro- or antiferro-magnetic resonance is tuned electrically instead of magnetically).\n\nIn multiferroic thin films, the coupled magnetic and ferroelectric order parameters can be exploited for developing magnetoelectronic devices. These include novel spintronic devices such as tunnel magnetoresistance (TMR) sensors and spin valves with electric field tunable functions. A typical TMR device consists of two layers of ferromagnetic materials separated by a thin tunnel barrier (~2 nm) made of a multiferroic thin film. In such a device, spin transport across the barrier can be electrically tuned. In another configuration, a multiferroic layer can be used as the exchange bias pinning layer. If the antiferromagnetic spin orientations in the multiferroic pinning layer can be electrically tuned, then magnetoresistance of the device can be controlled by the applied electric field. One can also explore multiple state memory elements, where data are stored both in the electric and the magnetic polarizations.\n\nLike any ferroic material, a multiferroic system is fragmented into domains. A domain is a spatially extended region with a constant direction and phase of its order parameters. Neighbouring domains are separated by transition regions called domain walls.\n\nIn contrast to materials with a single ferroic order, domains in multiferroics have additional properties and functionalities. For instance, they are characterized by an assembly of at least two order parameters. The order parameters may be independent (typical yet not mandatory for a split-order-parameter multiferroic) or coupled (mandatory for a joint-order-parameter multiferroic).\n\nMany outstanding properties that distinguish domains in multiferroics from those in materials with a single ferroic order are consequences of the coupling between the order parameters.\nThese issues lead to novel functionalities which explain the current interest in these materials.\n\nDomain walls are spatially extended regions of transition mediating the transfer of the order parameter from one domain to another. In comparison to the domains the domain walls are not homogeneous and they can have a lower symmetry. This may modify the properties of a multiferroic and the coupling of its order parameters. Multiferroic domain walls may display particular static and dynamic properties.\n\nStatic properties refer to stationary walls. They can result from\n\nDynamic properties refer to moving walls. In a magnetic ferroelectric, the magnetoelectric interaction is, at its roots, usually synonymous to the movement of the multiferroic domain walls. Because of the order-parameter coupling this may reflect characteristic features of both, ferroelectric and magnetic domain wall movement.\n\nOptical properties of multiferroics.\n\n1960s Ascher paper \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17810899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17810899", "title": "Multifuel", "text": "Multifuel\n\nMultifuel, sometimes spelled multi-fuel, is any type of engine, boiler, or heater or other fuel-burning device which is designed to burn multiple types of fuels in its operation. One common application of multifuel technology is in military settings, where the normally-used diesel or gas turbine fuel might not be available during combat operations for vehicles or heating units. Multifuel engines and boilers have a long history, but the growing need to establish fuel sources other than petroleum for transportation, heating, and other uses has led to increased development of multifuel technology for non-military use as well, leading to many flexible-fuel vehicle designs in recent decades.\n\nA multifuel engine is constructed so that its compression ratio permits firing the lowest octane fuel of the various accepted alternative fuels. A strengthening of the engine is necessary in order to meet these higher demands. Multifuel engines sometimes have switch settings that are set manually to take different octanes, or types, of fuel.\n\nOne common use of this technology is in military vehicles, so that they may run a wide range of alternative fuels such as gasoline or jet fuel. This is seen as desirable in a military setting as enemy action or unit isolation may limit the available fuel supply, and conversely enemy fuel sources, or civilian sources, may become available for usage.\n\nOne large use of a military multi-fuel engine was the LD series used in the US M35 -ton and M54 5-ton trucks built between 1963 and 1970. A military standard design using M.A.N. technology, it was able to use different fuels without preparation. Its primary fuel was Diesel #1, #2, or AP, but 70% to 90% of other fuels could be mixed with diesel, depending on how smooth the engine would run. Low octane commercial and aviation gasoline could be used if motor oil was added, jet fuel Jet A, B, JP-4, 5, 7, and 8 could be used, in an emergency fuel oil #1 and #2 could be used. In practice, they only used diesel fuel, their tactical advantage was never needed, and in time they were replaced with commercial diesel engines.\n\nCurrently, a wide range of Russian military vehicles employ multifuel engines, such as the T-72 tank (multifuel diesel) and the T-80 (multifuel gas turbine).\n\nMany other types of engines and other heat-generating machinery are designed to burn more than one type of fuel. For instance, some heaters and boilers designed for home use can burn wood, pellets, and other fuel sources. These offer fuel flexibility and security, but are more expensive than are standard single fuel engines. Portable stoves are sometimes designed with multifuel functionality, in order to burn whatever fuel is found during an outing.\n\nThe movement to establish alternatives to automobiles running solely on gasoline has greatly increased the number of automobiles available which use multifuel engines, such vehicles generally being termed a bi-fuel vehicle or flexible-fuel vehicle.\n\nMultifuel engines are not necessarily underpowered, but in practice some engines have had issues with power due to design compromises necessary to burn multiple types of fuel in the same engine. Perhaps the most notorious example from a military perspective is the L60 engine used by the British Chieftain Main Battle Tank, which resulted in a very sluggish performance -- in fact, the Mark I Chieftain (used only for training and similar activities) was so underpowered that some were incapable of mounting a tank transporter. An equally serious issue was that changing from one fuel to another often required hours of preparation.\n\nThe US LD series had a power output comparible to commercial diesels of the time. It was underpowered for the 5-ton trucks, but that was the engine size itself, the replacement diesel was much larger and more powerful. The LD engines did burn diesel fuel poorly and were very smokey, the final LDT-465 model had a turbocharger largely to clean up the exhaust, there was little power increase.\n\n"}
{"id": "30422761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30422761", "title": "National Association of Geoscience Teachers", "text": "National Association of Geoscience Teachers\n\nThe National Association of Geoscience Teachers (NAGT) is a North American organization that seeks to foster improvement in the teaching of the earth sciences at all levels of formal and informal instruction, to emphasize the cultural significance of the earth sciences, and to disseminate knowledge in this field to the general public.\n\nMembers include K-12 teachers and college and university faculty as well as educators working with the general public through outlets such as museums and science centers.\n\nAssociation awards include the Outstanding Earth Science Teacher award, the Neil Miner award, the James Shea award, and summer field programs.\n\nAssociation publications:\n\nThe NAGT/USGS Cooperative Summer Field Training Program was established in 1965 and is one of the longest continuing science internship programs in the country. Over 2,200 students have participated in this program from its inception.\n\n"}
{"id": "9583655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9583655", "title": "Ningikuga", "text": "Ningikuga\n\nNingikuga (\"Lady of the Pure Reed\") in Sumerian mythology was a goddess of reeds and marshes. She was one of the consorts of Enki, by whom she became the mother of Ningal, and the daughter of An and Nammu.\n\nMichael Jordan, Encyclopedia of Gods, Kyle Cathie Limited, 2002\n"}
{"id": "52008235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52008235", "title": "Nordic Council Environment Prize", "text": "Nordic Council Environment Prize\n\nThe Nordic Council Environment Prize (also known as the Nordic Council Nature and Environment Prize) is awarded each year to a Nordic company, organization, or individual to recognize \"exemplary efforts to integrate respect for the environment into their business or work or for some other form of extraordinary initiative on behalf of the environment\". The nominees and winner are chosen by a 13-person committee consisting of two representatives each from Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Iceland, as well as one each from the Faroe Islands, Greenland, and Åland. The first prize was awarded in 1995. Since 2005, the committee has chosen a theme each year for the nominations and award.\n"}
{"id": "44037789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44037789", "title": "PAE / RAE", "text": "PAE / RAE\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for Energy (RAE or ΡΑΕ from Ρυθμιστική Αρχή Ενέργειας in Greek) is an independent administrative authority, which was established in order to implement the provisions of Directive 96/92/EC for the liberalization of the electricity market in Greece.\n\nRAE is a member of the Council of European Energy Regulators. \n\n"}
{"id": "8475035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8475035", "title": "Rivers and lakes of Armenia", "text": "Rivers and lakes of Armenia\n\nThe Rivers and lakes in Armenia are mainly powered by fresh water. Throughout history Armenia has been called Nairi by the Assyrians meaning the \"Land of the lakes and rivers\". The Armenia is home to many rivers and lakes.\n\nThe largest river of Armenia is the Arax, which lies on the country's border with Iran and a large part of the border with Turkey. Its major tributaries are the Akhurian, Kasagh, Hrazdan, Azat, Arpa, Vorotan and Voghdji rivers. The largest rivers in north west part of the country are the Debed and Aghstev, while smaller ones include the Dzoraget and the Pambak.\n\nThe following table is the list of the biggest rivers in Armenia:\n\nArmenia has one very large lake called Lake Sevan and more than 100 small mountain lakes. None of them, except Sevan and Lake Arpi, have yet been extensively studied. The water resources of the lakes amount to about , Sevan holding most of this, nearly (before the drainage it had almost ).\n\nAt the country's capital, Yerevan, it is possible to find small lakes, often in amusement parks.\n"}
{"id": "19946174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19946174", "title": "Schøyen Collection", "text": "Schøyen Collection\n\nThe Schøyen Collection is the largest private manuscript collection in the world, mostly located in Oslo and London. Formed in the 20th century by Martin Schøyen, it comprises manuscripts of global provenance, spanning 5,000 years of history. It contains more than 13,000 manuscript items; the oldest is about 5,300 years old. There are manuscripts from 134 different countries and territories, representing 120 distinct languages.\n\nThe variety of manuscripts—geographic, linguistic, textual and material—even more than its size makes the Schøyen Collection unique. The collection has a website with many items illustrated and described. The provenance of the various cuneiform materials held by the Schøyen Collection remains subject to controversy.\n\nAmong the most notable items of the collection are the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "50020948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50020948", "title": "Soğuksu National Park", "text": "Soğuksu National Park\n\n/Soğuksu National Park (), established on February 19, 1959, is a national park in central Anatolia, Turkey. It is located in the Kızılcahamam district of Ankara Province.\n\nSoğuksu National Park is located about north of Ankara in a transition zone between the western Black Sea Region and the Central Anatolia Region that is dominated by dense forests. It covers in total land area, which was extended in 1979 from its initial area of .\n\nThe national park area consists of plains between small valleys, which converge in two main valleys fed by a number of streams. The streams Batılganın Creek and Küçük Soğuksu Creek run dry in the summer time.\n\nThe terrain has a rugged topography. The elevation ranges between above mean sea level with a mean of . The highest peaks are Tolubelen Hill and Arhut Hill . Other notable hills are Harmandoruk Hill , Çakmaklı’nın Doruktepe , Samrıdoruk Hill , Kayabelen Hill , Kel Hill and Kara Hill .\n\nBesides Kızılcahanan, other populated places around the national park are small villages such as Karacaören, Sazak, Saraycık and Alveren.\n\nThe wooded areas of the national park consists of volcanic rocks including andesite, basalt, tuff and agglomerate. Hot springs and cold water sources are found in these areas. The hot springs are evaluated as spa.\n\nIn the northern part of the national park, petrified woods are found, which were formed by volcanic activation about 10–12 million years ago. A preserved petrified tree trunk of length has diameter.\n\nThe forests in the national park, which exhibit the characteristics of European-Siberian vegetation, cover an area of . Dominant species include coniferous trees such as Scots pine (65%), larch (24%) and fir (6%). Other notable trees include broadleaves such as oak (5%), alder, aspen (\"Populus tremuloides\"), maple, dogwood (\"Cornus\") and black locust (\"Robinia pseudoacacia\"). Wild strawberry (\"Fragaria\"), wild rose (\"Rosa canina\"), wild pear (\"Pyrus communis\"), dwarf juniper (\"Juniperus pseudosabina\"), wild hazelnut and hawthorn (\"Crataegus\") are common forms of low vegetation (shrubs and herbaceous plants).\n\nThere are about 160 bird species in the national park. Near-threatened bird species such as cinereous vulture (\"Aegypius monachus\") and some eagle species build nests in the area. The wooded areas are sparsely inhabited by mammals, including red deer, roe deer, and species of bear, wolf, fox, jackal, weasel, wild boar, rabbit and squirrel.\n\nIn a bird hatchery established in the national park, chukar partridge (\"Alectoris chukar\"), grey partridge (\"Perdix perdix\"), falcon, pheasant, quail and pigeon (Columbidae) are being bred.\n\nThe climate in the Soğuksu National Park and its surroundings shows the transient character between the continental climate of the Central Anatolian steppe and the rainy climate of the North Anatolia. Although the annual average temperature in the nearby town of Kızılcahamam is around , it is about less in the national park.\n\nDue to its relative proximity to the capital, the national park is a popular destination for the residents of Ankara. Only one third of the park area is reserved for public use while the rest is protected natural area. It features a -long trail.\n\nAn information center, two restaurants, a kiosk are at service in the national park. A 300-bed thermal spa resort in the park is also available for visitors. Further facilities are available such as campsites, picnic tables, fire places, faucets and public toilets, which can meet the needs of about 12,000 visitors.\n\nThe national park offers opportunities for diverse recreational outdoor activities such as hiking, trekking, camping, birdwatching, mountaineering and photo safari. Mountain climbing is performed on the northwestern part of Osmandede Hill. A 2009-built station at the hillside of Kayabeleni Hill offers birdwatching for black vulture, and a bird feeder for black vulture is situated at Yanık Sırtı.\n\n\"Atatürk Çamı\" (\"Atatürk's Pine Tree\") is a place in the national park with historic value, where Mustafa Kemal Atatürk (1881–1938) once took a rest. A \"Atatürk Day\" is held annually on July 18 at this site.\n\nSoğuksu National Park is accessible west of Kızılcahamam, which is on the state road 750 north of Ankara.\n\nAnkara city bus line EGO 527 serves the national park from Ulus, Ankara four times a day. The ride takes around two and half hours.\n\nThe Ministry of Forest and Water Management produced a 5-minute documentary film titled \"Soğuksu: Bozkırdaki Orman\" (\"Soğuksu: A Forest in Steppe\") about the black culture and the wildcat living in the national park. The movie found considerable attraction of interest in the social media.\n\n"}
{"id": "1300690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1300690", "title": "Stone of Jacob", "text": "Stone of Jacob\n\nThe Stone of Jacob appears in the Book of Genesis as the stone used as a pillow by the Israelite patriarch Jacob at the place later called Bet-El. As Jacob had a vision in his sleep, he then consecrated the stone to God. More recently, the stone has been claimed by Scottish folklore and British Israelism.\n\nAccording to account given in Genesis (Chapter 28:10-22), Jacob was fleeing from his elder twin brother Esau, whom he had tricked out of receiving their father Isaac's blessing of the first-born. On his flight, Jacob rested at a city called Luz and used a group of stones as a pillow.\n\nIn his dreams, he then saw \n\n... a ladder was set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it.\n\nAnd behold, the LORD stood above it and said: “I am the LORD God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac; the land on which you lie I will give to you and your descendants. \n\nAlso your descendants shall be as the dust of the earth; you shall spread abroad to the west and the east, to the north and the south; and in you and in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed. \n\nBehold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land; for I will not leave you until I have done what I have spoken to you.”\nAfter waking up, Jacob exclaimed: \"This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven!\" Subsequently, he called the place Bet-El, which translates to \"House of God\". He set up the stone he had slept on as a pillar, and consecrated it. He also made a vow to God in reference to his eventual return.\n\nSome Scottish legends surrounding the Stone of Scone, traditionally used for coronations of Scottish kings in the High Middle Ages, have identified this stone with the Stone of Jacob. Supposedly the Stone of Jacob was brought to Ireland by the prophet Jeremiah and thence to Scotland.\n\nThese legends also feature prominently in British Israelism, a set of beliefs that consider the British monarchy as the legitimate heir to the ancient Israelites. From 1308 to 1996, the Stone of Scone rested in the Royal throne of England at Westminster.\n"}
{"id": "15560134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15560134", "title": "Taiga Shield Ecozone (CEC)", "text": "Taiga Shield Ecozone (CEC)\n\nThe Taiga Shield Ecozone, as defined by the Commission for Environmental Cooperation (CEC), is an ecozone which stretches across Canada's subarctic region. Some regions exhibit exposed Precambrian bedrock of the Canadian Shield, the oldest of the world's geological formations. The world's oldest rocks, dating to four billion years, are found in the Canadian Shield north of Great Slave Lake.\n\nThe Taiga Shield ecozone covers almost all of the eastern area of the Northwest Territories, a tiny corner of northeastern Alberta, a narrow strip of all northern Saskatchewan and northwestern Manitoba, as well as all some parts of southern Nunavut. Here, it is interrupted by Hudson Bay, where it abuts with the marine ecozone of the Arctic Archipelago Marine, and resumes on the eastern shores of Hudson Bay on the coast of Quebec, where it continues in a consistently-wide strip towards the ocean, encompassing all but a small portion of Labrador. It is one of the largest ecozones in Canada, covering 1.3 million square kilometres.\n\nTerrain is typically flat or rolling hills with thousands of depressions carved by glacial retreat now infilled, forming lakes, ponds, wetlands and other water features. Long eskers and uplands are also common.\n\nPrimarily wilderness, the Taiga Shield is sparsely populated, with approximately 340,000 inhabitants, over 60% of which is First Nations. Most settled areas developed around mining or hydroelectric activity, for example in Yellowknife and Uranium City in the west and Labrador City in the east, but are isolated from other communities. Mineral extraction is the most important economic activity, with iron being mined in Quebec and Labrador, uranium in Saskatchewan, and gold and more recently diamonds in the Northwest Territories.\n\nThis subarctic zone experiences cool summers that are short, with at least 24 hours of full daylight a year in its most northern reaches, and winters that are extremely cold and long, with at least one 24-hour period of complete darkness. Precipitation ranges from 250 to 500 mm (10-20 in.) annually throughout the zone, except in Labrador which may receive up to 800 mm (31 in.) along its coast, and typically increases from west to east.\n\nThe shallow soils remain damp, even soggy, year-round, and regularly freeze and thaw without drainage. This leads to shifting soil that randomly tilts growing trees, which has been likened to a \"drunken forest\".\n"}
{"id": "203109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203109", "title": "Temperate broadleaf and mixed forest", "text": "Temperate broadleaf and mixed forest\n\nTemperate broadleaf and mixed forest is a temperate climate terrestrial biome, with broadleaf tree ecoregions, and with conifer and broadleaf tree mixed coniferous forest ecoregions.\n\nThe term 'temperate broadleaf and mixed forest' is used by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in global biogeography as one of the biome designations under which to organize ecoregions.\n\nThe typical structure of these forests includes four layers. The uppermost layer is the canopy composed of tall mature trees ranging from high. Below the canopy is the three-layered, shade-tolerant understory that is roughly shorter than the canopy. The top layer of the understory is the sub-canopy composed of smaller mature trees, saplings, and suppressed juvenile canopy layer trees awaiting an opening in the canopy. Below the sub-canopy is the shrub layer, composed of low growing woody plants. Typically the lowest growing (and most diverse) layer is the ground cover or herbaceous layer.\n\nIn the Northern hemisphere, characteristic dominant broadleaf trees in this biome include oaks (\"Quercus\" spp.), beeches (\"Fagus\" spp.), maples (\"Acer\" spp.), or birches (\"Betula\" spp.). The term \"mixed forest\" comes from the inclusion of coniferous trees as a canopy component of some of these forests. Typical coniferous trees include: Pines (\"Pinus\" spp.), firs (\"Abies\" spp.), and spruces (\"Picea\" spp.). In some areas of this biome the conifers may be a more important canopy species than the broadleaf species. In the Southern hemisphere, endemic genera such as \"Nothofagus\" and \"Eucalyptus\" occupy this biome. Furthermore, in the southern hemisphere, most coniferous trees (members of the Araucariaceae and Podocarpaceae) occur in mixtures with broadleaf species, and are classed as broadleaf and mixed forests.\n\nTemperate broadleaf and mixed forests occur in areas with a distinct warm and cool season, which give it a moderate annual average temperature — . These forests occur in relatively warm and rainy climates, sometimes also with a distinct dry season. A dry season occurs in the winter in East Asia and in summer on the wet fringe of the Mediterranean climate zones. Other areas, as in the central and upper eastern United States and southeastern Canada, have a fairly even distribution of rainfall; annual rainfall is typically over and often over . Temperatures are typically moderate except in parts of Asia such as Ussuriland where temperate forests can occur despite very harsh conditions with very cold winters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "480543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=480543", "title": "Thermal equator", "text": "Thermal equator\n\nThe thermal equator (also known as \"the heat equator\") is a belt encircling the Earth, defined by the set of locations having the highest mean annual temperature at each longitude around the globe. Because local temperatures are sensitive to the geography of a region, mountain ranges and ocean currents ensure that smooth temperature gradients (such as might be found if the Earth were uniform in composition and devoid of surface irregularities) are impossible, the location of the thermal equator is not identical to that of the geographic Equator.\n\nThe term is less frequently used to describe the belt of maximum temperatures surrounding the globe which migrates roughly between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. This region is known as the Intertropical Convergence Zone where the Earth orbits the Sun. This zone is the result of trade winds from the northern and southern part of the hemisphere eventually joining together.\n\nStill another definition states that the thermal equator is the latitude at which insolation is identical throughout the year. This is not the same as the astronomical equator because the Earth reaches perihelion (the minimum distance from the Sun in its orbit) in early January and is at aphelion (maximum distance) in early July. Therefore, insolation is somewhat higher at 0° latitude in January than in July even though the height of the Sun (at noon) and the length of day (from sunrise to sunset) is essentially the same. At a few degrees north of the equator the perihelion/aphelion factor is balanced by the fact that the angle of the Sun is slightly more direct, and the days are slightly longer, at the time of the summer solstice for the Northern Hemisphere (most commonly on June 21), making the level of insolation virtually the same in both \"summer\" and \"winter.\"\n\nChennai, India, at 13 degrees north is considered to lie on the thermal equator at its longitude (80 degrees east). \n"}
{"id": "3099428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099428", "title": "Yan'an Rectification Movement", "text": "Yan'an Rectification Movement\n\nThe Yan'an Rectification Movement (), also known as Zhengfeng or Cheng Feng, was the first ideological mass movement initiated by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), going from 1942 to 1944. The movement took place at the communist base at Yan'an, a remote and isolated mountainous area in northern Shaanxi, after the communists' Long March. Though it was during the Second Sino-Japanese War, the CCP was experiencing a time of relative peace when they could focus on internal affairs.\n\nThe legacies of the Yan'an era proved fundamental to the subsequent history of the Chinese Communist Party, according to Kenneth Lieberthal. These included the consolidation of Mao Zedong's paramount role within the CCP, especially from 1942 to 1944, and the adoption of a party constitution that endorsed Marxist-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought as guiding ideologies. This move formalized Mao's deviation from the Moscow party line and the importance of Mao's major adaptations of communism to the conditions of China. The Rectification Campaign was successful in either convincing or coercing the other leaders of the CCP to support Mao. Because the CCP had overcome great odds to grow and develop during this period, the methods employed in Yan'an were looked upon in reverence during Mao's later years. After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, Mao repeatedly used some of the tactics that had been successful in Yan'an whenever he felt the need to monopolize political power. In large part, the Yan'an Rectification Campaign began with the \"systematic remolding of human minds.\"\n\nIn the 1930s the remote region of Yan'an had not experienced the same turmoil and hostilities as other mainland territories. Situated in northwest China, the area was also difficult to attack. CCP members mostly arrived there after the Long March (1934–1935). The area was known as a territory of camaraderie without corruption, though the Rectification Movement essentially changed everything.\n\nAccording to official CCP sources, the purpose of the Rectification Campaign was to give a basic grounding in the Marxist theory, and Leninist principles of party organization to the thousands of new members who had joined the CCP during its expansion after 1937. A second, equally important aspect of the movement was the elimination of the blind imitation of Soviet models, obedience to Soviet directives (mostly communicated to China via the Comintern), and \"empiricism\". Mao emphasized that the campaign aimed at \"rectifying mistaken ideas\" and not the people who held them.\n\nModern research by Chinese and Western scholars, in particular the interpretation of Professor Gao Hua in his work \"How Did The Red Sun Rise: The Cause And Effect Of Zhengfeng In Yan'an\", have focused on the political nature of the Rectification Movement. Modern scholars have increasingly viewed the movement as being initiated by Mao in order to ensure his status as paramount leader of the CCP. Most historical sources refer to multiple phases of \"rectification\", often with inconsistent names and imprecise start and end times.\n\nThroughout the Rectification Campaign, Yan'an was not seriously threatened by either the Japanese or the Nationalists. With the Soviets at war with Nazi Germany and unable to intervene, Mao seized the opportunity in Yan'an to \"go to work\" on his Party and \"mold it into an unquestioning machine\" in preparation for the all-out civil war against the Nationalists under Chiang Kai-shek that was expected to follow the defeat of the Japanese. (This is according to Jung Chang and Jon Halliday, whose treatment of Mao has been regarded as flawed by some China scholars.)\n\nThe Yan'an era had a profound effect on the CCP and its future fortunes. When the Communists completed the Long March the CCP was a relatively small band of less than 10,000 worn out troops from the south, displaced to an isolated and poor area in the hinterlands of northern China. By the end of the Yan'an era, however, the CCP's forces had grown to nearly 2.8 million members, and the Party governed nineteen base areas that contained a population of nearly one hundred million people.\n\nParty membership was strongly shaped by the devastation of the final battles for the Jiangxi Soviet, the Long March, and the numerous clashes with the Japanese during the Yan'an era. With only few early members of the CCP surviving to the end of the Yan'an period, the Party as of the mid-1940s consisted to 90% of peasants recruited from the base areas of north China.\n\nThe mostly young volunteers who arrived in Yan'an after the Long March were \"vital to Mao because they were relatively well educated, and he needed competent administrators to staff his future regime\". Most of the Long Marchers and rural recruits from within the Communist bases were illiterate peasants. It was these more recent volunteers who were Mao's primary \"target\".\n\nA large number of the young volunteers congregated in Yan'an, the capital of Mao's Communist Party. By the time Mao Zedong started his drive to \"condition\" them, around 40,000 had arrived. Most were in their late teens and early twenties, had joined the Party in territories controlled by the Nationalists, and later departed to Yan'an. They were excited at reaching what was called a \"revolutionary Mecca.\" One young volunteer described his feeling: \"At last we saw the heights of Yenan city. We were so excited we wept. We cheered from our truck ... We started to sing the \"Internationale\", and Russia's Motherland March.'\"\n\nThe Party's leadership, however, reflected the CCP's origins south of the Yangtze River, and was at best supplemented by the intellectuals who trekked out to Yan'an to join the Party during the war against Japan. The Yan'an Rectification Campaign was also directed towards the indoctrination of older Communist Party personnel. \"The Party chose to re-emphasize its basic principles during this period, in an evident determination to maintain its Leninist foundations in the midst of all the changes brought about by the war-time shift to the united front.\"\n\nThe Yan'an Rectification Campaign improved the discipline, education, and organization of the membership of the CCP. Having lost many veterans before and during the Long March, the Communists found new sources of recruits among urban youth, students, and intellectuals. Alienated from the Nationalist government and doubting its resolve in resisting the Japanese, many new CCP volunteers were drawn by communist propaganda that portrayed the CCP as \"the saviors of the nation\", promising democracy and liberal reforms. As a result, hundreds of thousands of students, teachers, artists, writers, and journalists poured into Yan'an, seeking a revolutionary career. In Marxist classification these new recruits were of petit bourgeois origin. Their enthusiasm and various sorts of expertise were useful for the revolution, but only after they had undergone a thorough political reeducation and ideological reform.\n\nThe process of indoctrination extended even to the cadres who had survived the Long March and \"proven their revolutionary credibility.\" All Party members were reeducated with the newly established \"Mao Zedong Thought\" in order to ensure their high compliance with the new leadership and the new party ideology. In order to secure his power, Mao supported his political authority with ethical and moral rhetoric.\n\nThe Yan'an rectification saw Mao consolidate his position of preeminence in the CCP. To do this he undertook a \"thought-reform campaign\" from 1942 to 1944. The effort was partly a reflection of Mao's wish to eradicate Soviet influence. Under the conditions of independently operating Communist areas and incessant warfare, Mao could not rely on discipline alone to guarantee obedience in the CCP ranks. In order to ensure the Party's obedience to his orders, Mao developed the techniques of the Rectification Campaign to implement \"thought reform\" (literally \"washing the brain\" in Chinese). Mao's tactics often included isolating and attacking dissenting individuals in \"study groups.\"\n\nThe Communists established numerous schools, formulating a new type of educational system. Among these schools were the Anti-Japanese Military and Political University, the Lu Xun Academy of the Arts, the Northwest Public School, the Central Party School, the Academy of Marxism-Leninism, the Women's University, Yan'an University, and the Academy of the Nationality, as well as a number of special training programs. All veterans and new recruits had to be enrolled and educated in one of these institutions, in accordance with their previous training or their expertise, before they could be trusted with assignment to party and government positions.\n\nAt the end of the Yan'an Rectification Campaign the CCP had developed an operational set of principles and practices that differed greatly from the centralized, functionally specialized, hierarchical, command-oriented approach imposed by Joseph Stalin in the Soviet Union. In what some authors have labeled the \"Yan'an complex,\" the CCP emphasized a combination of qualities that can be summed up as:\n\nThese became deeply held values of the CCP, and years later became central to the Party mythology that reminisced about the success of the Yan'an era.\n\nDuring the Yan'an Rectification Campaign, more sophisticated techniques of thought reform were used than had been previously attempted in China. Relying on criticism, self-criticism, \"struggle\", confession, and the content of the Marxist doctrine, these methods were heavily influenced by contemporary Soviet practices of thought reform.\n\nUnder the guidance of a group leader, an individual, as part of a larger \"study group\", would study Marxist documents to understand \"key principles,\" and then relate those principles to their own lives in a \"critical, concrete, and thoroughgoing way.\" Other members of the group put the individual under \"extraordinary pressure\" to examine fully his or her most deeply held views, and to do so in the presence of the group. The individual then had to write a full \"self-confession.\" Other group members isolated the individual during this process. Only when the confession was accepted would the person be drawn back into an accepted position in the group and in the larger society.\n\nThese techniques of pressure, ostracism, and reintegration were particularly powerful in China, where the culture puts great value on \"saving face\", protecting one's innermost thinking, and above all, identifying with a group. Individuals put through thought reform later described it as excruciating. The resulting changes in views were not permanent, but the experience overall seriously affected the lives of those who went through it. The CCP used these same types of techniques on millions of Chinese after 1949.\n\nThe preparatory phase of the Rectification Campaign lasted from May 1941 to February 1942. The Campaign began on February 1, 1942 under Mao Zedong with his speech \"Reform in Learning, the Party and Literature.\" A book entitled \"Documents of the Rectification Campaign\" was published and circulated internally. This book included essays including Mao's \"Combat Liberalism\" and Liu Shaoqi's \"How to be a Good Communist.\"\n\nIn July and August 1942 the CCP issued the decision for \"Research and Analysis\" and \"Improvement of Party Membership.\" The leading team for the campaign was established with Mao as director and Wang Jiaxiang deputy director. In 1942 the CCP had 800,000 members, of which only a small group of approximately 150 members usually made all major decisions.\n\nAlthough Mao took charge of the leadership of the CCP after the Zunyi Conference, he was not yet in a dominant position. Even after Mao won a power struggle with Zhang Guotao, he was still one among many senior leaders, including Zhou Enlai, Wang Ming and Zhang Wentian. Before the Rectification Campaign Mao's contribution to the revolution in rural areas, and even his status as a senior leader, was doubted by other members of the CCP, including Xiang Zhongfa, Zhang Guotao, Li Lisan, and intellectuals such as Zhou Enlai, Qu Qiubai and the 28 Bolsheviks. Unlike his rival Wang Ming, Mao was not recognised by the Comintern as one of the CCP's preferred leaders.\n\nDuring this preparatory phase, Mao used his political skills to consolidate his power base. By manipulating the political climate in Yan'an, Mao was able to break up the alliance of his opponents, most notably Zhang Guotao and the members of the 28 Bolsheviks, and to eliminate his rivals one by one.\n\nThe Rectification Campaign was officially launched in 1942. Since the 4th Plenum Meeting of 6th National Congress of the CCP (1928), the 28 Bolsheviks began to take control of the CCP with the help of the Comintern. To gain the support of those who might potentially oppose him, Mao labeled his rivals as comrades who were supporting the wrong cause. This rejection of \"ad hominem\" arguments made him appear politically and mentally superior to his political enemies. Mao categorized his rivals, or potential rivals, into two groups.\n\nOne group was labeled \"dogmatists,\" comprising Wang Ming, the 28 Bolsheviks, and those who had studied abroad and were deeply influenced by foreign theories, including Liu Bocheng, Zuo Quan, and Zhu Rui. The other group was labeled \"empiricists\", whose members included Zhou Enlai, Ren Bishi, Peng Dehuai, Chen Yi, Li Weihan, Deng Fa, and any other senior leaders who supported Wang Ming. Mao forced these leaders to criticize each other and self-criticize in rounds of meetings. Every one of them wrote reports of confession and apologies for their mistakes. Those who had produced self-criticisms were later persecuted according to their own confessions.\n\nMao set up the Central General Study Committee to be in charge of the movement. This Committee was run by Mao's close allies Kang Sheng, Li Fuchun, Peng Zhen, and Gao Gang, and later included Liu Shaoqi. This Committee temporarily replaced the politburo and secretariat, running daily operation for the CCP and making it one of the most powerful administrative bodies at that time. The Committee gave Mao the ability to exercise authoritarian power without being limited by elections and term limits. The earlier collective decision-making system of CCP center was abandoned, and Mao turned the government of Yan'an into his own dictatorship.\n\nFrom Feb 1942 to Oct 1943, the Rectification Campaign reached its peak. Mao gave the lecture \"Improving the Party Work Style and Thought\" in the opening ceremony at the Central Party School (中共中央黨校). The lecture \"Against Party Stereotype-Writing\" in the cadre party of Yan'an in Feb 1942 interpreted the aim and policy of the movement in full detail - the event included thousands of cadres from the party. In this lecture, Mao Zedong declared: \n\nThe third phase of the Rectification Campaign lasted from October 1943 to 1944 or April 1945, depending on sources. It is generally known as the \"Summing up party history\" phase. Senior leaders restudied party history and attempted to reach agreements on major issues by admitting to \"errors\". The 1943 portion of the campaign included a \"Rescue Campaign\" that focused on group retribution. In the Rescue Campaign, members would write about their own confessions, often pointing fingers at other members to save themselves from other people's false allegations toward them. The Rescue Campaign soon became a circular cycle of false guilt and fake reenactments sending many innocent people to death via needless witch hunts.\n\nOne of the members crucial to carrying out the Rectification Movement was the secret police boss Kang Sheng. Wang Ming was one of the main members singled out and forced to confess to having \"errors.\" Wang was set up by his former friend Bo Gu, who coincidentally was also later condemned for pursuing an \"erroneous leftist line\" in Jiangxi. Zhang Wentian also made self criticisms. Wang Shiwei became a well known victim.\n\nSome CCP members thought Mao would also accept genuine criticism and spoke their true feelings of anger over hierarchy and inequality in Yan'an. The most famous came from Wang Shiwei, a journalist and intellectual known for his belief in \"democracy and science.\" Wang wrote an essay denouncing the hierarchy, bureaucracy, and inegalitarian distribution of resources in Yan'an. The essay irritated Mao greatly, and Wang was labeled a Trotskyist. Wang was arrested by the Central Social Department, modelled off the Soviet Union's OGPU, and beheaded in 1947.\n\nUnder the leadership of Peng Zhen, the Central Political School of the CCP began to carry out the Rectification Campaign among its students. Massive numbers of party members were forced to write reports of confession and self-criticism. The Central General Study Committee ordered people to report on their daily habits and speech. This stage was known as the \"Salvation Stage\". The Salvation Stage was the extension of the Maoist anti-Trotskyist movement and the censorship of newcomers who had come from the areas governed by the Kuomintang. The Central Social Department took control of the movement and turned it into a mass persecution in 1943.\n\nKang Sheng, Peng Zhen and Li Kenong would never waste this precious opportunity to show off their power as the movement changed into a witch-hunt. Thousands of people, especially those new members who came from areas governed by KMT, were purged, kept in custody, censored, mentally and physically tortured, and occasionally executed. Many of them were labeled as \"spies of the Kuomintang\" or \"anti party activists\". Not only were they themselves humiliated, but also their family members and relatives. The only way for them to be released from this persecution was to make confession of crimes they never committed and then turn others in.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3488509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3488509", "title": "Ørsted (satellite)", "text": "Ørsted (satellite)\n\nØrsted is Denmark's first satellite, named after Hans Christian Ørsted (1777–1851), a Danish physicist and professor at the University of Copenhagen. It is in an almost-sun synchronous low Earth orbit.\n\nAfter more than seventeen years in orbit, the Ørsted satellite is still operational, and continues to downlink accurate measurements of the Earth's magnetic field. Ørsted was constructed by a team of Danish space companies, of which CRI was prime contractor. CRI was acquired by Terma A/S before Ørsted was launched, and the daily operations are run jointly by Terma A/S and the Danish Meteorological Institute.\n\nIn 2010, Ørsted passed within 500 meters of debris from the 2009 satellite collision but suffered no damage.\n\nØrsted was the first in a planned sequence of microsatellites to be flown under the now discontinued Danish Small Satellite Programme.\n\nThe main scientific objective of the spacecraft was to map the Earth's magnetic field and collect data to determine changes occurring in it.\n\nBased on data from the Ørsted satellite, researchers from the Danish Space Research Institute concluded that the Earth's magnetic poles are moving, and that the speed with which they are moving has been increasing for the past few years. This apparent acceleration indicates that the Earth's magnetic field might be in the process of reversing, which could have serious consequences for land-based biological life.\n\nThe results have been published in several prominent scientific journals, and printed on the cover pages of Geophysical Research Letters, Nature, and Eos.\n\nThe primary scientific instruments on the Ørsted satellite are:\n\nThe other three instruments are located in the main body of the satellite:\n\n\n"}
