{"id": "16795076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16795076", "title": "Agriculture and Forestry University", "text": "Agriculture and Forestry University\n\nThe Agriculture and Forestry University (AFU) is a public agricultural university with central offices in Rampur, Chitwan, Nepal. Organized in a manner similar to agricultural universities in India, it is the only such university in Nepal. \n\nIt was created by the Parliament of Nepal, which passed a bill in June 2010 merging two constituent campuses of Tribhuvan University: the Rampur Agriculture Campus of the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science and the Forestry Campus, Hetauda of the Institute of Forestry in Hetauda, Makawanpur. The university exists to offer agricultural workforce development and promote research in agriculture, forestry, and allied disciplines. Through teaching, research, and extension programs in agriculture, livestock, and forestry, it aims to raise the socio-economic conditions of rural people.\n\nThe university has inherited undergraduate, graduate and PhD programs in agricultural sciences of Rampur Campus and undergraduate program in forestry of Hetauda Campus. The Rampur Campus offers undergraduate degrees including a four-year B.Sc. Ag, five-year B.V.Sc. and A.H, four-year B.Sc Fisheries, two-year Master programs in Agriculture, Animal Science, Veterinary Science and Aquaculture, and Ph.D. programs. \n\nIn addition to its Bachelor of Forestry degree program, the Hetauda Forestry campus offers a Master of Forestry degree and PhD. \n\nThe university has 140 faculty members located at the Rampur Agriculture Campus and 55 at the Hetauda Forestry Campus. The university strength consists of around 800 undergraduate students, 200 postgraduate students and around 50 Ph.D. scholars in disciplines of agriculture and forestry. The Rampur academic complex extends in an area of and the Hetauda Campus has an area of .\n\nThe faculty members focus their research work on increasing production and productivity of agricultural commodities, post-harvest technology, improving the shelf-life of food products, conserving biodiversity, and enhancing livelihood systems and innovation capacities of farming communities. The postgraduate students are contributing thesis research to generate knowledge and technologies to address the issues of agriculture and forestry in the nation.\n\nAgriculture and Forestry University (AFU) was established as a result of a bill enacted by the Nepalese Parliament in June 2010 authorizing the creation of three new universities at campuses owned by Tribhuvan University. The Rampur Agriculture Campus, associated with the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, and the Forestry Campus, Hetauda, associated with the Institute of Forestry, were designated as campuses for the new university. As of February 2015, Tribhuvan University has refused to transfer ownership of the campuses to the new university, citing its autonomy from the Nepalese legislature, and the existing Rampur Agriculture Campus has yet to vacate its administrative offices.\n\nRecently, in 2015, the first AFU affiliated college was established in Puranchaur V.D.C. of Kaski district with the name College Of Natural Resource Management. This college is currently operating with Bachelors level of Agriculture faculty.\n\nTotal 50 students were enrolled as the first batch of the college.\n\nThe University Complex of AFU and its Central Office, including the offices of the Vice Chancellor and Registrar, are on the Rampur campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "41408770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41408770", "title": "Balkan Heritage Foundation", "text": "Balkan Heritage Foundation\n\nThe Balkan Heritage Foundation (BHF) is a Bulgarian public, non-profit, non-governmental organization. It was established in 2008 by a team of a cross-institutional program implementing archaeological field schools since 2003. Its head office is located in Stara Zagora, Bulgaria. The BHF has a representative office located in Sofia and four branches located in Varna, Mezek, Dragoman and Emona, Bulgaria.\n\nThe Balkan Heritage Foundation’s mission is to support the protection, conservation, management and promotion of cultural and historical (both tangible and intangible) heritage of South-eastern Europe as necessary preconditions for sustainable development of the region.\n\nThe foundation collaborates on both the local and global level with universities, museums, research institutes, media, business companies, governmental and non-governmental organizations. It raises funds and consequently funds projects implemented by research institutes and scientific teams, museums, municipalities and local communities. Since it was established, the foundation has been implementing and financially supporting the following programs, projects and activities:\n\nThe Balkan Heritage Field School (BHFS) is an archaeological field school annually providing a number of courses (projects) in archeology, anthropology and history of South-Eastern Europe, documentation, conservation and restoration of historic artifacts and monuments, taught in English and located within Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. The school admits both academic students and non-academic students. The BHFS, operating since 2003, was fully incorporated by the Balkan Heritage Foundation in 2008.\n\nThe BHFS courses are affiliated with ongoing excavation (Neolithic settlement in Ilindentsi, Tell Yunatsite, Bresto, emporion Pistiros, Stobi, Bona Mansio and Apollonia Pontica conservation and documentation projects contributing to the study and preservation of the Balkan cultural heritage and are usually supplemented by trips to attractive historical sites and cities in Bulgaria, Macedonia, Greece, Serbia and Montenegro. The school concept envisions that every course combines three basic educational modules: theoretical (lectures, presentations and field trainings), practical (either excavation field work and lab work or conservation of historic artifacts and monuments) and excursions plus behind-the-scene visits. The BHFS courses are listed among the academic courses of New Bulgarian University, Queen's University, Kingston, Canada; and UCLA Extension, enabling their participants to obtain credit hours upon request.\nThe BHFS functions as a legal part of the Balkan Heritage Foundation, a Bulgarian public, non-profit, non-governmental organization. Since 2003 the BHFS has organized 85 courses in the field of archaeology, documentation of medieval frescoes and conservation of Ancient Greek and Roman pottery, mural paintings and mosaics. These courses have been attended by more than 1500 students from 55 countries.\n\nThe Program's head office is located in Sofia, Bulgaria. Costs of courses and study materials can be found by viewing the website. The BHFS admission fees support the Balkan Heritage Protection Fund.\n\n\n\nIn 2008-2009 four volunteer work camps supporting preservation of cultural heritage took place in Bitola (Macedonia), Stara Zagora, Dragoman and Mezek (Bulgaria) in cooperation with Stara Zagora Regional Museum of History, municipalities of Dragoman and Svilengrad (Bulgaria) and Youth Cultural Center Bitola (Macedonia).\n\n"}
{"id": "172875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172875", "title": "Bayard Rustin", "text": "Bayard Rustin\n\nBayard Rustin (; March 17, 1912 – August 24, 1987) was an American leader in social movements for civil rights, socialism, nonviolence, and gay rights. \n\nIn the pacifist groups Fellowship of Reconciliation (FOR) and the War Resisters League (WRL), Rustin practiced nonviolence. A member of the Communist Party before 1941, he collaborated with A. Philip Randolph on the March on Washington Movement in 1941 to press for an end to discrimination in employment. He was a leading activist of the early Civil Rights Movement, helping to initiate a 1947 Freedom Ride to challenge, with civil disobedience, the racial segregation issue related to interstate busing. He recognized Martin Luther King, Jr.'s leadership, and helped to organize the Southern Christian Leadership Conference to strengthen King's leadership. Rustin promoted the philosophy of nonviolence and the practices of nonviolent resistance, which he had observed while working with Mahatma Gandhi's movement in India, and helped teach Martin Luther King, Jr. about nonviolence.\n\nRustin became a leading strategist of the Civil Rights Movement from 1955 to 1968. He was the chief organizer of the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, which was headed by A. Philip Randolph, the leading African-American labor-union president and socialist. Rustin also influenced young activists, such as Tom Kahn and Stokely Carmichael, in organizations such as the Congress on Racial Equality (CORE) and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC).\n\nAfter the passage of the civil rights legislation of 1964–65, Rustin focused attention on the economic problems of working-class and unemployed African Americans, suggesting that the civil-rights movement had left its period of \"protest\" and had entered an era of \"politics\", in which the black community had to ally with the labor movement. Rustin became the head of the AFL–CIO's A. Philip Randolph Institute, which promoted the integration of formerly all-white unions and promoted the unionization of African Americans. The Institute under Rustin's leadership also advanced and campaigned for (from 1966 to 1968) \"A Freedom Budget for All Americans\", linking the concepts of racial justice with economic justice. Supported by over 200 prominent civil-rights activists, trade unionists, religious leaders, academics and others, it outlined a plan to eliminate poverty and unemployment in the United States within a ten-year period. Rustin became an honorary chairperson of the Socialist Party of America in 1972, before it changed its name to Social Democrats, USA (SDUSA); Rustin acted as national chairman of SDUSA during the 1970s. During the 1970s and 1980s, Rustin served on many humanitarian missions, such as aiding refugees from Communist Vietnam and Cambodia. At the time of his death in 1987, he was on a humanitarian mission in Haiti.\n\nRustin was a gay man who had been arrested early in his career for engaging in public sex. Rustin's sexuality, or at least his criminal charge, was criticized by some fellow pacifists and civil-rights leaders because it detracted from his effectiveness. Rustin was attacked as a \"pervert\" or \"immoral influence\" by political opponents from segregationists to conservative black leaders from the 1950s through the 1970s. In addition, his pre-1941 Communist Party affiliation when he was a young man was controversial, having caused scrutiny by the FBI. To avoid such attacks, Rustin served rarely as a public spokesperson. He usually acted as an influential adviser behind the scenes to civil-rights leaders. In the 1980s, he became a public advocate on behalf of gay and lesbian causes.\n\nPresident Ronald Reagan issued a statement on Rustin's death in 1987, praising his work for civil rights and his shift toward neoconservative politics over the years. On November 20, 2013, President Barack Obama posthumously awarded Rustin the Presidential Medal of Freedom.\n\nRustin was born in West Chester, Pennsylvania, to Florence Rustin and Archie Hopkins, but raised by his maternal grandparents, Julia (Davis) and Janifer Rustin, as the ninth of their twelve children; growing up he believed his biological mother was his older sister. His grandparents were local caterers and relatively wealthy who raised Rustin in a large house. Julia Rustin was a Quaker, although she attended her husband's African Methodist Episcopal Church. She was also a member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). NAACP leaders such as W.E.B. Du Bois and James Weldon Johnson were frequent guests in the Rustin home. With these influences in his early life, in his youth Rustin campaigned against racially discriminatory Jim Crow laws.\n\nIn 1932, Rustin entered Wilberforce University, a historically black college (HBCU) in Ohio operated by the AME Church. As a student at Wilberforce, Rustin was active in a number of campus organizations, including the Omega Psi Phi Fraternity. He was expelled from Wilberforce in 1936 after organizing a strike, and later attended Cheyney State Teachers College (now Cheyney University of Pennsylvania). Cheyney honored Rustin with a posthumous \"Doctor of Humane Letters\" degree at its 2013 commencement.\n\nAfter completing an activist training program conducted by the American Friends Service Committee (AFSC), Rustin moved to Harlem in 1937 and began studying at City College of New York. There he became involved in efforts to defend and free the Scottsboro Boys, nine young black men in Alabama who were accused of raping two white women. He joined the Young Communist League for a small period of time in 1936, before becoming disillusioned with the party. Soon after arriving in New York City, he became a member of Fifteenth Street Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers).\n\nRustin was an accomplished tenor vocalist, an asset which earned him admission to both Wilberforce University and Cheyney State Teachers College with music scholarships. In 1939, he was in the chorus of a short-lived musical that starred Paul Robeson. Blues singer Josh White was also a cast member, and later invited Rustin to join his band, \"Josh White and the Carolinians\". This gave Rustin the opportunity to become a regular performer at the Café Society nightclub in Greenwich Village, widening his social and intellectual contacts. A few albums on Fellowship Records featuring his singing were produced from the 1950s through the 1970s.\n\nRustin's personal philosophy is said to have been inspired by combining Quaker pacifism with socialism (as taught by A. Philip Randolph) and the theory of non-violent protest, popularized by Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nFollowing directions from the Soviet Union, the Communist Party USA (CPUSA) and its members were active in the civil rights movement for African Americans. Following Stalin's \"theory of nationalism\", the CPUSA once favored the creation of a separate nation for African-Americans to be located in the American Southeast, the center of the greatest concentration of black population. In 1941, after Germany invaded the Soviet Union, Joseph Stalin ordered the CPUSA to abandon civil rights work and focus on supporting U.S. entry into World War II.\n\nDisillusioned, Rustin began working with members of the Socialist Party of Norman Thomas, particularly A. Philip Randolph, the head of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters; another socialist mentor was the pacifist A. J. Muste, leader of the Fellowship of Reconciliation (FOR). FOR hired Rustin as a race relation secretary in the late summer of 1941.\n\nThe three of them proposed a march on Washington in 1941 to protest racial segregation in the armed forces and widespread discrimination in employment. Meeting with President Roosevelt in the Oval Office, Randolph respectfully and politely, but firmly told President Roosevelt that African Americans would march in the capital unless desegregation occurred. To prove their good faith, the organizers canceled the planned march after Roosevelt issued Executive Order 8802 (the Fair Employment Act), which banned discrimination in defense industries and federal agencies. The leader of the organizers, Randolph, canceled the march against Rustin's advisement. The armed forces were not desegregated until 1948, under an Executive Order issued by President Harry S. Truman.\n\nRandolph felt that FOR had succeeded in their goal and wanted to dissolve the committee. Again, Rustin disagreed with him and voiced his differing opinion in a national press conference, which he later regretted.\n\nRustin traveled to California to help protect the property of the more than 120,000 Japanese Americans, most native-born, who had been imprisoned in internment camps. Impressed with Rustin's organizational skills, A.J. Muste appointed him as FOR's secretary for student and general affairs.\n\nRustin was also a pioneer in the movement to desegregate interstate bus travel. In 1942, he boarded a bus in Louisville, bound for Nashville, and sat in the second row. A number of drivers asked him to move to the back, according to Southern practice of Jim Crow, but Rustin refused. The bus was stopped by police 13 miles north of Nashville and Rustin was arrested. He was beaten and taken to the police station, but was released uncharged.\n\nIn 1942, Rustin assisted two other FOR staffers, George Houser and James L. Farmer, Jr., and activist Bernice Fisher as they formed the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE). Rustin was not a direct founder, but was \"an uncle of CORE,\" Farmer and Houser said later. CORE was conceived as a pacifist organization based on the writings of Mohandas Gandhi's who used non-violent resistance against British rule in India. CORE was also influenced by his protege Krishnalal Shridharani's book \"War without Violence\".\n\nDeclared pacifists who refused induction into the military, Rustin, Houser, and other members of FOR and CORE were convicted of violating the Selective Service Act. From 1944 to 1946, Rustin was imprisoned in Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary, where he organized protests against segregated dining facilities. During his incarceration, Rustin also organized FOR's Free India Committee. After his release from prison, he was frequently arrested for protesting against British colonial rule in India and Africa.\n\nJust before a trip to Africa while college secretary of the FOR, Rustin recorded a 10-inch LP for the Fellowship Records label. He sang spirituals and Elizabethan songs, accompanied on the harpsichord by Margaret Davison.\n\nRustin and Houser organized the Journey of Reconciliation in 1947. This was the first of the Freedom Rides to test the ruling of the Supreme Court of the United States in \"Morgan v. Commonwealth of Virginia\" that banned racial discrimination in interstate travel as unconstitutional. Rustin and CORE executive secretary George Houser recruited a team of fourteen men, divided equally by race, to ride in pairs through Virginia, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Kentucky. The NAACP opposed CORE's Gandhian tactics as too meek. Participants in the Journey of Reconciliation were arrested several times. Arrested with Jewish activist Igal Roodenko, Rustin served twenty-two days on a chain gang in North Carolina for violating state Jim Crow laws regarding segregated seating on public transportation.\n\nIn 1948, Rustin traveled to India to learn techniques of nonviolent civil resistance directly from the leaders of the Gandhian movement. The conference had been organized before Gandhi's assassination earlier that year. Between 1947 and 1952, Rustin also met with leaders of independence movements in Ghana and Nigeria. In 1951, he formed the Committee to Support South African Resistance, which later became the American Committee on Africa.\n\nRustin was arrested in Pasadena, California, in 1953 for sexual activity with another man in a parked car. Originally charged with vagrancy and lewd conduct, he pleaded guilty to a single, lesser charge of \"sex perversion\" (as sodomy was officially referred to in California then, even if consensual) and served 60 days in jail. This was the first time that his homosexuality had come to public attention. He had been and remained candid in private about his sexuality, although homosexual activity was still criminalized throughout the United States. After his conviction, he was fired from FOR. He became the executive secretary of the War Resisters League. Later, in Montana, an American Legion chapter made his conviction in Pasadena public to try to cancel his lectures in the state.\n\nRustin served as an unidentified member of the American Friends Service Committee's task force to write \"Speak Truth to Power: A Quaker Search for an Alternative to Violence,\" published in 1955. This was one of the most influential and widely commented upon pacifist essays in the United States. Rustin had wanted to keep his participation quiet, as he believed that his known sexual orientation would be used by critics as an excuse to compromise the 71-page pamphlet when it was published. It analyzed the Cold War and the American response to it, and recommended non-violent solutions.\n\nRustin took leave from the War Resisters League in 1956 to advise minister Martin Luther King Jr. of the Baptist Church on Gandhian tactics. King was organizing the public transportation boycott in Montgomery, Alabama, which became known as the Montgomery Bus Boycott. According to Rustin, \"I think it's fair to say that Dr. King's view of non-violent tactics was almost non-existent when the boycott began. In other words, Dr. King was permitting himself and his children and his home to be protected by guns.\" Rustin convinced King to abandon the armed protection, including a personal handgun. In a 1964 interview with Robert Penn Warren for the book \"Who Speaks for the Negro?,\" Rustin also reflected that his integrative ideology began to differ from King's. He believed a social movement \"has to be based on the collective needs of people at this time, regardless of color, creed, race.\"\n\nThe following year, Rustin and King began organizing the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC). Many African-American leaders were concerned that Rustin's sexual orientation and past Communist membership would undermine support for the civil rights movement. U.S. Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr., who was a member of the SCLC's board, forced Rustin's resignation from the SCLC in 1960 by threatening to discuss Rustin's morals charge in Congress. Although Rustin was open about his sexual orientation and his conviction was a matter of public record, the events had not been discussed widely beyond the civil rights leadership.\n\nDespite shunning from some civil rights leaders, \nA few weeks before the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in August 1963, South Carolina Senator Strom Thurmond railed against Rustin as a \"Communist, draft-dodger, and homosexual,\" and had his entire Pasadena arrest file entered in the record. Thurmond also produced a Federal Bureau of Investigation photograph of Rustin talking to King while King was bathing, to imply that there was a same-sex relationship between the two. Both men denied the allegation of an affair.\n\nRustin was instrumental in organizing the march. He drilled off-duty police officers as marshals, bus captains to direct traffic, and scheduled the podium speakers. Eleanor Holmes Norton and Rachelle Horowitz were aides. Despite King's support, NAACP chairman Roy Wilkins did not want Rustin to receive any public credit for his role in planning the march. Nevertheless, he did become well known. On September 6, 1963, a photograph of Rustin and Randolph appeared on the cover of \"Life\" magazine, identifying them as \"the leaders\" of the March.\n\nAt the beginning of 1964, Reverend Milton Galamison and other Harlem community leaders invited Rustin to coordinate a citywide boycott of public schools to protest their de facto segregation. Prior to the boycott, the organizers asked the United Federation of Teachers Executive Board to join the boycott or ask teachers to join the picket lines. The union declined, promising only to protect from reprisals any teachers who participated. More than 400,000 New Yorkers participated in a one-day February 3, 1964 boycott. Historian Daniel Perlstein notes that \"newspapers were astounded both by the numbers of black and Puerto Rican parents and children who boycotted and by the complete absence of violence or disorder from the protesters.\" It was, Rustin stated, and newspapers reported, \"the largest civil rights demonstration\" in American history. Rustin said that \"the movement to integrate the schools will create far-reaching benefits\" for teachers as well as students.\n\nThe protest demanded complete integration of the city's schools (which would require some whites to attend schools in black neighborhoods), and it challenged the coalition between African Americans and white liberals. An ensuing white backlash affected relations among the black leaders. Writing to black labor leaders, Rustin denounced Galamison for seeking to conduct another boycott in the spring, and soon abandoned the coalition.\n\nRustin organized a May 18 march which called for \"maximum possible\" integration. Perlstein recounts. \"This goal was to be achieved through such modest programs as the construction of larger schools and the replacement of junior high schools with middle schools. The UFT and other white moderates endorsed the May rally, yet only four thousand protesters showed up, and the Board of Education was no more responsive to the conciliatory May demonstration than to the earlier, more confrontational boycott.\"\n\nWhen Rustin was invited to speak at the University of Virginia in 1964, school administrators tried to ban him, out of fear that he would organize a school boycott there. The flagship state university and local schools were still segregated.\n\nIn the spring of 1964, Rev. Martin Luther King was considering hiring Rustin as executive director of SCLC, but was advised against it by Stanley Levison, a longtime activist friend of Rustin's. He opposed the hire because of what he considered Rustin's growing devotion to the political theorist Max Schachtman. \"Schachtmanites\" have been described as an ideologically cultish group with ardently anti-communist positions, and attachments to the Democratic Party and the AFL-CIO.\n\nAt the 1964 Democratic National Convention, which followed Freedom Summer in Mississippi, Rustin became an adviser to the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party (MFDP); they were trying to gain recognition as the legitimate, non-Jim Crow delegation from their state, where blacks had been officially disenfranchised since the turn of the century (as they were generally throughout the South) and excluded from the official political system. DNC leaders Lyndon Johnson and Hubert Humphrey offered only two non-voting seats to the MFDP, with the official seating going to the regular segregationist Mississippi delegation. Rustin, following a line set by Shachtman and AFL-CIO leaders, urged the MFDP to take the offer. MFDP leaders, including Fannie Lou Hamer and Bob Moses, angrily rejected the arrangement; many of their supporters became highly suspicious of Rustin. Rustin's attempt to compromise appealed to the Democratic Party leadership.\n\nAfter passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Rustin advocated closer ties between the civil rights movement and the Democratic Party, specifically the party's base among the white working class, many of whom still had strong union affiliations. With Tom Kahn, Rustin wrote an influential article in 1964 called \"From Protest to Politics,\" published in \"Commentary\" magazine; it analyzed the changing economy and its implications for African Americans. Rustin wrote presciently that the rise of automation would reduce the demand for low-skill high-paying jobs, which would jeopardize the position of the urban African-American working class, particularly in northern states. He believed that the working class had to collaborate across racial lines for common economic goals. His prophecy has been proven right in the dislocation and loss of jobs for many urban African Americans due to restructuring of industry in the coming decades.\n\nRustin believed that the African-American community needed to change its political strategy, building and strengthening a political alliance with predominately white unions and other organizations (churches, synagogues, etc.) to pursue a common economic agenda. He wrote that it was time to move from protest to politics. Rustin's analysis of the economic problems of the Black community was widely influential.\n\nHe also argued that the African-American community was threatened by the appeal of identity politics, particularly the rise of \"Black power.\" He thought this position was a fantasy of middle-class black people that repeated the political and moral errors of previous black nationalists, while alienating the white allies needed by the African-American community. \"Nation\" editor and Harvard Law Professor Randall Kennedy noted later that, while Rustin had a general \"disdain of nationalism,\" he had a \"very different attitude toward Jewish nationalism\" and was \"unflaggingly supportive of Zionism.\"\n\n\"Commentary\" editor-in-chief Norman Podhoretz had commissioned the article from Rustin, and the two men remained intellectually and personally aligned for the next 20 years. Podhoretz and the magazine promoted the neoconservative movement, which had implications for civil rights initiatives as well as other economic aspects of the society. In 1985, Rustin publicly praised Podhoretz for his refusal to \"pander to minority groups\" and for opposing affirmative action quotas in hiring as well as black studies programs in colleges.\n\nBecause of these positions, Rustin was criticized as a \"sell-out\" by many of his former colleagues in the civil rights movement, especially those connected to grassroots organizing. They charged that he was lured by the material comforts that came with a less radical and more professional type of activism. While biographer John D'Emilio rejects these characterizations, Randall Kennedy wrote in a 2003 article that descriptions of Rustin as \"a bought man\" are \"at least partly true.\" \n\nRustin increasingly worked to strengthen the labor movement, which he saw as the champion of empowerment for the African-American community and for economic justice for all Americans. He contributed to the labor movement's two sides, economic and political, through support of labor unions and social-democratic politics.\nHe was the founder and became the Director of the A. Philip Randolph Institute, which coordinated the AFL-CIO's work on civil rights and economic justice. He became a regular columnist for the AFL-CIO newspaper.\n\nOn the political side of the labor movement, Rustin increased his visibility as a leader of the American social democracy. In early 1972, he became a national co-chairman of the Socialist Party of America. In December 1972, when the Socialist Party changed its name to Social Democrats, USA (SDUSA) by a vote of 73–34, Rustin continued to serve as national co-chairman, along with Charles S. Zimmerman of the International Ladies Garment Workers' Union (ILGWU). In his opening speech to the December 1972 Convention, Co-Chairman Rustin called for SDUSA to organize against the \"reactionary policies of the Nixon Administration\"; Rustin also criticized the \"irresponsibility and élitism of the 'New Politics' liberals\". In later years, Rustin served as the national chairman of SDUSA.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Rustin was a member of the League for Industrial Democracy. He would remain a member for years, and became vice president during the 1980s.\n\nLike many liberals and socialists, Rustin supported President Lyndon B. Johnson's containment policy against communism, while criticizing specific conduct of this policy. In particular, to maintain independent labor unions and political opposition in Vietnam, Rustin and others gave critical support to U.S. military intervention in the Vietnam War, while calling for a negotiated peace treaty and democratic elections. Rustin criticized the specific conduct of the war, though. For instance, in a fundraising letter sent to War Resisters League supporters in 1964, Rustin wrote of being \"angered and humiliated by the kind of war being waged, a war of torture, a war in which civilians are being machine gunned from the air, and in which American napalm bombs are being dropped on the villages.\"\n\nAlong with Allard Lowenstein and Norman Thomas, Rustin worked with the CIA-sponsored Committee on Free Elections in the Dominican Republic, which lent international credibility to a 1966 ballot effectively rigged against the socialist former president, Juan Bosch.\n\nThroughout the 1970s and 1980s, Rustin worked as a human rights and election monitor for Freedom House.\n\nIn 1970, Rustin called for the U.S. to send military jets in the fight against Arab states by Israel; referring to a New York Times article he authored, Rustin wrote to Prime Minister Golda Meir \"...I hope that the ad will also have an effect on a serious domestic question: namely, the relations between the Jewish and the Negro communities in America.\" Rustin was concerned about unity between two groups that he argued faced discrimination in America and abroad, and also believed that Israel's democratic ideals were proof that justice and equality would prevail in the Arab territories despite the atrocities of war. His former colleagues in the peace movement considered it to be a profound betrayal of Rustin's nonviolent ideals.\n\nRustin maintained his strongly anti-Soviet and anti-communist views later in his life, especially with regard to Africa. Rustin co-wrote with Carl Gershman (a former director of Social Democrats, USA and future Ronald Reagan appointee) an essay entitled \"Africa, Soviet Imperialism & the Retreat of American Power,\" in which he decried Russian and Cuban involvement in the Angolan Civil War and defended the military intervention by apartheid South Africa on behalf of the National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) and National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA). \"And if a South African force did intervene at the urging of \"black\" leaders and on the side of the forces that clearly represent the \"black\" majority in Angola, to counter a non-African army of Cubans ten times its size, by what standard of political judgment is this immoral?\" Rustin accused the Soviet Union of a classic imperialist agenda in Africa in pursuit of economic resources and vital sea lanes, and called the Carter Administration \"hypocritical\" for claiming to be committed to the welfare of blacks while doing too little to thwart Russian and Cuban expansion throughout Africa.\n\nIn 1976, Rustin helped found the Committee on the Present Danger (CPD) with Paul Nitze, leader of the CIAs Team B project. CPD promoted Team B's controversial intelligence claims about Soviet foreign policy, using them as an argument against arms control agreements such as SALT II. This cemented Rustin's leading role in the neoconservative movement.\n\nThe plight of Jews in the Soviet Union reminded Rustin of the struggles that blacks faced in the United States. Soviet Jews faced many of the same forms of discrimination in employment, education and housing, while also being prisoners within their own country by being denied the chance to emigrate by Soviet authorities. After seeing the injustice that Soviet Jews faced, Rustin became a leading voice in advocating for the movement of Jews from the Soviet Union to Israel. He worked closely with Senator Henry Jackson of Washington, who introduced legislation that tied trade relations with the Soviet Union to their treatment of Jews. In 1966 he chaired the historic Ad hoc Commission on Rights of Soviet Jews organized by the Conference on the Status of Soviet Jews, leading a panel of six jurors in the Commission’s public tribunal on Jewish life in the Soviet Union. Members of the panel included Telford Taylor, the Nuremberg war trial prosecutor and Columbia University professor of law; Dr. John C. Bennett, president of the Union Theological Seminary; Reverend George B. Ford, pastor emeritus of the Corpus Christi Church; Samuel Fishman representing United Automobile Workers; and Norman Thomas, veteran Socialist leader. The commission collected testimonies from Soviet Jews and compiled them into a report that was delivered to the secretary general of the United Nations. The report urged the international community to demand that the Soviet authorities allow Jews to practice their religion, preserve their culture and to emigrate from the USSR at their will. The testimonies from Soviet Jews were published by Moshe Decter, the executive secretary of the Conference on the Status of Soviet Jews, in a book— \"Redemption! Jewish freedom letters from Russia\", with a foreword by Rustin. Through the 1970s and 1980s Rustin wrote several articles on the subject of Soviet Jewry and appeared at Soviet Jewry movement rallies, demonstrations, vigils, and conferences, in the United States and abroad. He co-sponsored the National Interreligious Task Force on Soviet Jewry. Rustin allied with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, an outspoken advocate for Soviet Jewry, and worked closely with Senator Henry Jackson, informing the Jackson–Vanik amendment—a vital legislation that restricted United States trade with the Soviet Union in relation to its treatment of Jews.\n\nHe also testified on behalf of New York State's Gay Rights Bill. In 1986, he gave a speech \"The New Niggers Are Gays,\" in which he asserted,\n\nWhile there is a recurring tendency to describe Rustin as a pioneering \"out gay man\" the truth is more complex. In 1986, Rustin was invited to contribute to the book \"In the Life: A Black Gay Anthology\". He declined, explaining\n\nI was not involved in the struggle for gay rights as a youth. ...I did not \"come out of the closet\" voluntarily—circumstances forced me out. While I have no problem with being publicly identified as homosexual, it would be dishonest of me to present myself as one who was in the forefront of the struggle for gay rights. ...I fundamentally consider sexual orientation to be a private matter. As such, it has not been a factor which has greatly influenced my role as an activist.\n\nRustin did not engage in any gay rights activism until the 1980s. He was urged to do so by his partner Walter Naegle, who has said that \"I think that if I hadn't been in the office at that time, when these invitations [from gay organizations] came in, he probably wouldn't have done them.\"\n\nDue to the lack of marriage equality at the time Rustin and partner Walter Naegle took an unconventional step to solidify their partnership and protect their unification. In 1982 Rustin adopted Naegle, 30 years old at the time, in order to legalize their union. Naegle explains, We actually had to go through a process as if Bayard was adopting a small child. My biological mother had to sign a legal paper, a paper disowning me. They had to send a social worker to our home. When the social worker arrived, she had to sit us down to talk to us to make sure that this was a fit home.Davis Platt, Bayard's partner from the 1940s, said \"I never had any sense at all that Bayard felt any shame or guilt about his homosexuality. That was rare in those days. Rare.\"\n\nRustin died on August 24, 1987, of a perforated appendix. An obituary in \"The New York Times\" reported, \"Looking back at his career, Mr. Rustin, a Quaker, once wrote: 'The principal factors which influenced my life are 1) nonviolent tactics; 2) constitutional means; 3) democratic procedures; 4) respect for human personality; 5) a belief that all people are one.' \" Rustin was survived by Walter Naegle, his partner of ten years.\n\nPresident Ronald Reagan issued a statement on Rustin's death, praising his work for civil rights and \"for human rights throughout the world.\" He added that Rustin \"was denounced by former friends, because he never gave up his conviction that minorities in America could and would succeed based on their individual merit.\"\n\nRustin \"faded from the shortlist of well-known civil rights lions,\" in part because he was active behind the scenes, and also because of public discomfort with his sexual orientation and former communist membership. In addition, Rustin's tilt toward neo-conservatism in the late 1960s led him into disagreement with most civil rights leaders. But, the 2003 documentary film \"Brother Outsider: The Life of Bayard Rustin\", a Sundance Festival Grand Jury Prize nominee, and the March 2012 centennial of Rustin's birth have contributed to renewed recognition of his extensive contributions.\n\nRustin served as chairman of Social Democrats, USA, which, \"The Washington Post\" wrote in 2013, \"was a breeding ground for many neoconservatives\". In the 1970s, he was among the second-age neoconservatives, and in 1979, was elevated to vice-chair of the Coalition for a Democratic Majority, an organization that helped revive the Committee on the Present Danger.\n\nAccording to Daniel Richman, former clerk for United States Supreme Court justice Thurgood Marshall, Marshall's friendship with Rustin, who was open about his homosexuality, played a significant role in Marshall's dissent from the court's 5–4 decision upholding the constitutionality of state sodomy laws in the later overturned 1986 case \"Bowers v. Hardwick.\"\n\nSeveral buildings have been named in honor of Rustin, including the Bayard Rustin Educational Complex located in Chelsea, Manhattan; Bayard Rustin High School in his hometown of West Chester, Pennsylvania; Bayard Rustin Library at the Affirmations Gay/Lesbian Community Center in Ferndale, Michigan; and the Bayard Rustin Social Justice Center in Conway, Arkansas. Rustin is one of two men who have both participated in the Penn Relays and had a school, West Chester Rustin High School, named in his honor that participates in the Relays.\n\nIn July 2007, with the permission of the Estate of Bayard Rustin, a group of San Francisco Bay Area African-American LGBT community leaders officially formed the Bayard Rustin LGBT Coalition (BRC), to promote greater participation in the electoral process, advance civil and human rights issues, and promote the legacy of Rustin. In addition, the Bayard Rustin Center for LGBTQA Activism, Awareness and Reconciliation is located at Guilford College, a Quaker school. Formerly the Queer and Allied Resource Center, the center was rededicated in March 2011 with the permission of the Estate of Bayard Rustin and featured a keynote address by social justice activist Mandy Carter.\n\nA 1998 anthology movie, \"Out of the Past\", featured letters and archive footage of Rustin.\n\nA Pennsylvania State Historical Marker is placed at Lincoln and Montgomery Avenues, West Chester, Pennsylvania; the marker commemorating his accomplishments lies on the grounds of Henderson High School, which he attended.\n\nIn 2012, Rustin was inducted into the Legacy Walk, an outdoor public display which celebrates LGBT history and people.\n\nRustin was posthumously awarded honorary membership into Delta Phi Upsilon, a fraternity for gay, bisexual and progressive men.\n\nIn 2013, Rustin was selected as an honoree in the United States Department of Labor Hall of Honor.\n\nOn August 8, 2013, President Barack Obama announced that he would posthumously award Rustin the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest award in the United States. The citation in the press release stated:\n\nBayard Rustin was an unyielding activist for civil rights, dignity, and equality for all. An advisor to the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., he promoted nonviolent resistance, participated in one of the first Freedom Rides, organized the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, and fought tirelessly for marginalized communities at home and abroad. As an openly gay African American, Mr. Rustin stood at the intersection of several of the fights for equal rights.\n\nAt the White House ceremony on November 20, 2013, President Obama presented Rustin's award to Walter Naegle, his partner of 10 years at the time of Rustin's death.\n\nIn 2016, the Greensboro Mural Project, created a mural in honor of Bayard Rustin located at New Garden Friends Meeting in Greensboro, North Carolina. John Hunter designed the mural, their first, honoring the legacy of Bayard Rustin.\n\nOn April 12, 2018, the Montgomery County Board of Education in Maryland voted to name the Bayard Rustin Elementary School after Rustin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16034527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16034527", "title": "British Accreditation Council", "text": "British Accreditation Council\n\nThe British Accreditation Council for Independent Further and Higher Education was established in 1984 to provide quality assurance for independent further and higher education in the UK. BAC accreditation is recognised as the clearest mark of educational quality in the private sector. Alongside the British Council, whose Accreditation UK scheme serves as the definitive guide to the country’s English language centres, BAC has overseen the inspection of private post-16 education for over 30 years.\n\nBAC encourages high standards of education offered by independent colleges and providing prospective students with a guide to quality. \n\nIts central office staff, a network of expert inspectors, and consultants help independent education and training providers raise their standards.\n\nBAC accreditation is recognised by the UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI), part of the Home Office, as a qualifying requirement for institutions wishing to enrol students on Short-Term Study Visas: students from outside the EEA will only secure a UK Short-Term Study Visa if they have an offer from an accredited institution.\n\nThe British Accreditation Council has been a member of Enqua since 2015, became a member of INQAAHE in 2006 and has a memorandum of agreement with the Quality Assurance Agency. The Chief Executive of the BAC is a member of the British Council’s Accreditation Scheme Advisory Committee. The British Accreditation Council is a stakeholder of the Federation of Awarding Bodies. It also a onto the European Quality Assurance Register for Higher Education (EQAR) since 2015 .\n\nThe charitable objectives of the organisation are:\n\n\nAs well as assisting law enforcement in cases of potential fraud, the British Accreditation Council has provided evidence on the private sector to the UK parliament. In 2008, the charity undertook a research project on private further and higher education in Kosovo, as requested by the British Council and the Kosovo Government. The findings of that project were published in a report in July 2008, which was fully endorsed by the Kosovo Government.\n\nIn 2012 the organisation was commissioned along with CFE by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to provide a comprehensive picture of provision by privately funded institutions operating in the UK higher education (HE) sector.\n\nThe British Accreditation Council inspects and accredits around 250 organisations within the UK and overseas. An inspection of a private college assesses four main areas:\n\n\nAs well as private colleges such as Hult International Business School, the charity inspects training providers such as Crown Agents. In October 2012, it announced that it would also inspect and accredit online colleges.\n\nNon-UK colleges accredited by the organisation include, City College (international faculty of the University of Sheffield), AKMI Athens Metropolitan College, AKTO (Art & Design), American University of Culture & Education (AUCE), BCA (Business College Athens), HTMi, Hotel & Tourism Management Institute, IMI University Centre, Independent Science & Technology (IST) Studies, International University College, Sofia, Mediterranean College - Athens, Mediterranean College - Thessaloniki, New York College, Athens-SBS, New York College, Thessaloniki, Rushmore Business School, University of New York in Prague and VUZF University. Until October 2012, colleges outside the UK were only eligible for BAC accreditation if they offered higher education courses and had a formal validation agreement or other link with a UK higher education institution, awarding body or BAC-accredited college. In October 2012, a new accreditation scheme was launched for certain overseas institutions that did not meet these criteria.\n\nInspection reports are considered by the Accreditation Committee, which includes representatives from the British Council and the Council of Validating Universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "12764579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12764579", "title": "British Association for Applied Linguistics", "text": "British Association for Applied Linguistics\n\nThe British Association for Applied Linguistics (BAAL) is an academic society for professional applied linguists, language teachers and other interested parties, based in the United Kingdom. It is an affiliate of the \"Association Internationale de Linguistique Appliquee\" (International Association of Applied Linguistics, AILA).\n\nBAAL organises regular meetings of its approximately 1000 members at various venues in the UK, publishes conference proceedings, issues a regular newsletter and awards student scholarships. The current Chair (2018-2021) is Dawn Knight, Reader in the School of English, Communication and Philosophy at Cardiff University.\n\nBAAL's Annual Meeting is held every year in early September in the UK; the 50th BAAL conference was held in 2017, at the University of Leeds. Representatives also attend international conferences. BAAL is a registered charity in the UK. Meetings usually have a theme; for example, the 40th conference at the University of Edinburgh focused on 'Technology, Ideology and Practice in Applied Linguistics'.\n\nThe Association is regularly consulted over linguistic issues and language teaching in the UK, but has stopped short of active political lobbying; it remains a primarily academic institution, despite occasional forays into campaigning.\n\nThe association first convened in the 1960s, as interest increased in the new science of modern linguistics and particularly in its practical application - for example, in language teaching and learning. A group of theoretical linguists, educators and other professionals using language \"as a tool\" would establish much-need cross-disciplinary contacts; also, deepening European integration at the time meant that there was a need for high-quality language teaching across the continent. \n\nBAAL's creation was the result of a proposal by Peter Strevens, Chair in Applied Linguistics at the University of Essex. At a preliminary meeting of interested parties at Birkbeck College in July 1965, a narrower remit was discussed than the wider set of issues that the Association would concern itself with; initially, it was suggested that it might focus on language teaching and machine translation, but the first full meeting in 1967 in Reading, Berkshire agreed to broaden the scope. BAAL emerged as the UK affiliate of AILA, with Pit Corder its first Chair. Membership was narrowly defined in the early years, as BAAL wished to develop a reputation as a learned society rather than a teachers' meeting; however, a feeling that the Association could afford to widen recruitment was apparent by the early 1970s. In 1985, a requirement for formal qualifications, already flexible, was dropped; and today anyone can join. In 1980, the Association also began to publish what is now considered the leading journal in the field, \"Applied Linguistics\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36048603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36048603", "title": "Cavendish University Zambia", "text": "Cavendish University Zambia\n\n"}
{"id": "41394506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41394506", "title": "Children-404", "text": "Children-404\n\nChildren-404 is a Russian LGBTI online community on Facebook and on the social networking site VK.\n\nThe establisher of the community is Lena Klimova, a journalist based in the city of Nizhny Tagil. She is the author of a series of articles on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) teenagers and she published in 2014 a book on the topic. In 2013, she set up an online community on Facebook and on the social networking site VK named Children-404, which provides a space for teenagers to discuss LGBTI issues and support each other.\n\nThe Project’s Facebook and VK pages (entitled “Children-404”) publish letters from Russian LGBT teenagers in which they talk about the problems they face in their lives due to homophobic people around them - friends, relatives, classmates, teachers, and others. The Project’s pages also publishes letters from adults with words of support for the Russian LGBT adolescents.\n\nThe number \"404\" in the project title refers to the internet error message \"Error 404 - Page not found\". The project authors draw attention to the fact that in Russian society not many people consider the existence of gay and transgender children and the challenges that they face in an LGBT-intolerant environment. The Project description states:\n\nLena Klimova, a young journalist from Ekaterinburg, published a series of articles critical of the parliamentary bills against “propaganda of homosexuality”. Afterwards she received an e-mail from a 15-year-old girl who said that she was being bullied by her classmates and her parents because of her homosexuality. The girl wrote that had been on the verge of suicide, but Klimova’s article had made her change her mind.\n\nAfter that Klimova started to research the lives of LGBT adolescents in Russia, and created an online survey. Within under two weeks Klimova had received over a hundred e-mail responses, and that is what made her resolve to create an online support project for LGBT teens.\n\nThe project consists of two parts: a private \"closed\" group on the Russian social network VK, whose purpose is to offer psychological assistance to LGBT teens, and in which they can share their problems and get help from adult participants; and open projects on Facebook and VK which publish letters from teens.\n\nThe popular Spanish newspaper El Mundo wrote the following about the \"Children-404\" Project in an article entitled \"How dangerous to be homosexual in Russia\", writes: \"The photos show young faces whose eyes are concealed by placards with the inscription \"Children-404\". In numerous letters teens shout “We exist!” in protest against widespread intolerance\".\n\nThe \"Children-404\" Project has attracted attention outside Russia. In summer and early autumn of 2013 in a number of cities in the world - New York City, Oslo, London - public rallies were held in support of the Russian LGBT adolescents and the \"Children-404\" Project. Some of the largest publications in the world, including The Washington Post, The New York Times, The Guardian, and El Mundo have published articles about the \"Children-404\" Project.\n\nOn 5 July 2013 the \"Children-404\" Project supported the family of Marcel Neergaard, an eleven-year-old gay boy from Tennessee, who had become well known in his home country for his success in combating homophobia. Marcel and his parents sent to \"Children-404\" a statement in support of LGBT teens Russia.\n\nOn 16 July 2013 six members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, (Anna Grodzka, Andrzej Rozenek, Robert Biedroń, Tomasz Makovski, Maciej Banaszak, and Michał Kabaciński), members of the Palikot's Movement, held a rally in support of Russian LGBT teens. They were photographed with posters saying \"Children-404, you exist! We are with you!\"\n\nOn 5 December 2013, in partnership with Children-404, the U.S. It Gets Better Project launched a campaign entitled \"You are beautiful!\" on its website to support Russian LGBT teens.\n\nIn January 2014, Elena Klimova was charged under a Russian federal law criminalizing the distribution of \"propaganda\" of \"non-traditional sexual relationships\" among minors. On 21 February 2014, the charges were dropped after the court ruled in consultation with a mental health professional that the page \"helps teenagers exploring their sexuality to deal with difficult emotional issues and other problems that they may encounter\", and did not constitute \"propaganda\" under the law. Vitaly Milonov, a member of the Legislative Assembly of Saint Petersburg who was in favor of the law, intended to appeal the decision.\n\nIn January 2015, Klimova was, again, charged with violating the propaganda law for operating Children-404, facing a fine of 50,000 rubles. The charges were dropped by a Nizhny Tagil court after an appeal. However, in July 2015, Klimova was charged once more and convicted by the same court for violating the law, facing the same fine. Klimova intended to appeal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53930053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53930053", "title": "Climate change education (CCE)", "text": "Climate change education (CCE)\n\nClimate Change Education (CCE) is learning geared toward helping people address and develop effective responses to climate change. It helps learners understand the causes and consequences of climate change, prepares them to live with the impacts of climate change and empowers learners to take appropriate actions to adopt more sustainable lifestyles.\n\nCCE helps policy-makers understand the urgency and importance of putting mechanisms into place to combat climate change on a national and global scale. Communities learn about how climate change will affect them, what they can do to protect themselves from negative consequences, and how they can reduce their own climate footprint. In particular, CCE helps increase the resilience of already vulnerable communities who are the most likely to be adversely affected by climate change.\n\nCCE is rooted in Education for Sustainable Development (ESD).\n\nEstablished in 2010, the UNESCO Climate Change Education for Sustainable Development programme (CCESD) aims to help people understand climate change by expanding CCE activities in nonformal education through the media, networking and partnerships. It is grounded in the holistic approach of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) which incorporates key sustainable development issues such as climate change, disaster risk reduction and others into education, in a way that addresses the interdependence of environmental sustainability, economic viability and social justice. It promotes participatory teaching and learning methods that motivate and empower learners to change their behaviour and take action for sustainable development. The programme seeks to help people understand the impact of global warming today and increase ‘climate literacy’, especially among young people, and aims to make education a more central part of the international response to climate change. UNESCO works with national governments to integrate CCE into national curricula and to develop innovative teaching and learning approaches for doing so.\n\nAustralia has been at the forefront of education for sustainability, adopting in 2000 a national plan entitled Environmental Education for a Sustainable Future. A number of initiatives and bodies were created to implement the national plan, including the Australian Sustainable Schools Initiative and Australian Research Institute for Environment and Sustainability. These provided a strong foundation for Australia’s strategy, launched in 2006, to respond to the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development. The strategy set out the goal to mainstream sustainability through a holistic approach that engages the community through education and lifelong learning. Whereas climate change was referred to as one of a number of environmental concerns in the first national plan, a new plan launched in 2009, entitled Living Sustainably: the Australian Government’s National Action Plan for Education for Sustainability, had a greater focus on climate change and its impacts on other natural resources within a wider global context. The new plan incorporated climate change within education for sustainability, rather than establishing a new and potentially competing field of Climate Change Education. Australia introduced its first-ever national curriculum in 2014, including sustainability as one of three cross-curriculum subjects.\n\nSince 2009, Climate Change Education has been most evident in the VET sector. COAG endorsed the Green Skills Agreement in 2009, and the Ministerial Council for Vocational and Technical Education published the National VET Sector Sustainability Policy and Action Plan (2009-2012). These initiatives aimed to provide workers with the skills needed to transition to a low-carbon economy and VET teachers with suitable training packages to promote education for sustainability.\n\nChina introduced environmental education in the late 1970s as a result of increased attention to sustainable development and the need to protect the environment. Following the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (Rio de Janeiro, 1992), environmental education moved towards environment, population and development, and finally education for sustainable development.\n\nThe Chinese government has produced a number of policy documents identifying environmental education and ESD as key to quality education. In 2003, the Ministry of Education issued the first guiding policy - the Guidelines for Implementing Environmental Education in Elementary and Secondary School - on environmental education in China. ESD was formally incorporated into the national education policy in 2010 in The National Education Outline 2010-2020, and further integrated in some local education policies. National climate change policies and plans in China refer to education but do not specifically address CCE. This has resulted in limited institutional support to date. There is no national ESD or CCE action plan or official policy to inform its implementation.\n\nIn China, ESD mainly refers to providing individuals with the scientific knowledge, learning capacity, values and lifestyle choices to meet the country’s sustainable development objectives. CCE is most commonly implemented as a component of ESD. A number of educational approaches have been adopted to facilitate the implementation of ESD. These include integrating ESD values into school philosophy, curriculum development, capacity-building of teachers and educators, ESD pedagogical approaches and ESD and CCE thematic activities.\n\nESD is a component of compulsory education, but is limited in higher education, VET and adult education. The Ministry of Education has recently issued a guidance document that identified the VET sector in particular as needing to be reformed to meet the sustainable development objectives of the Chinese economy.\n\nDenmark and its neighbouring countries began working together in the 1990s to formulate a policy for ESD. While Denmark signed the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) declaration on ESD in 2005, it did not adopt a strategy until 2009, just before the half-way point of the DESD. The Ministry of Education, which was made responsible for the DESD, organised a consultation process on how to promote ESD before adopting its strategy in 2009.\n\nThe UN Climate Summit (COP15) held in Denmark in December 2009 provided the impetus to develop of a number of national ESD policy initiatives. A national strategy on ESD was developed with a substantial climate change component. The aim of the strategy is to make citizens more responsible for their actions by improving their scientific knowledge. The ESD strategy notes that climate change should not be the sole focus of ESD, though the concrete initiatives that are part of the strategy mostly support the CCE projects and activities that were part of COP15 preparations.\n\nA new national school curriculum adopted in 2009 included elements of ESD and CCE. The concept of sustainability was embedded in the goals describing the interrelationships between nature and society. CCE is mostly approached as teaching climate science, but it was also included in subjects such as geography and social studies, where the interrelationships between human behaviour, consumption and climate are examined.\n\nThere has been no explicit policy change in the TVET sector to upgrade skills to respond to climate change and environmental issues. However, it is important to note that the Danish TVET sector had previously reflected skills related to ecological modernisation in areas such as energy generation, waste management and agriculture. While the new government identified the economic and environmental climate change crises as important, education is only referred to in relation to the economic crisis. There is no mention of climate change or sustainability with regard to education, and the platform documentation on ‘green transition’ does not mention education. Overall, no policy strategy has been set to promote ESD, CCE, or the ‘greening’ of TVET as part of the government’s sustainable development and climate change policies. Government initiatives support NGO-led projects to raise community awareness of climate change. A national network on ESD was established with funding through to 2013.\n\nThe Dominican Republic has taken a lead role in promoting ESD. Environmental education was made mandatory for all schools in 1998 and this has since evolved into ESD. In 2000, the General Law of Environment and Natural Resources changed the way environmental education was taught, moving from a subject matter to a cross-cutting and interdisciplinary theme. Risk management is also an important aspect of MINERD’s strategic plan, and has been integrated into the school curriculum as a cross-cutting subject. In 2004, the Environmental Education Strategy for Sustainable Development was adopted, which fosters formal and non-formal ESD. It is based on constructivism and uses a variety of pedagogical techniques that promote participatory learning.\n\nThe Ten-year 2008-2018 Education Plan (PDE) addresses the issue of quality education, including sustainable development and a culture of peace. It also established a process for periodic review of the curriculum. Climate change is also being introduced into the curriculum. The National Teacher Training Institute (INAFOCAM) and the Salomé Ureña Higher Institute for Teacher Training (ISFODOSU) provide support for environmental education through teacher training and curriculum support. The Ten-year 2008-2018 Higher Education Plan (PDES) includes environmental issues in the curricula and establishes a research programme to promote sustainable development.\n\nThe Dominican Republic has been involved in a number of ESD and CCE initiatives that have helped build local capacity, including:\n\nEnvironmental and development education have been present in England since the 1970s, when civil society organizations took the lead. From the late 1990s, the UK government promoted sustainable development and ESD at the local, regional and national levels. However, while a number of strategic government reports addressed CCE, government policy has focused less on ESD since 2010.\n\nThe 2008 report Brighter Futures – Greener Lives: Sustainable Development Action Plan 2008-2010 outlined a number of specific initiatives related to Climate Change Education using an ESD approach. This included empowering youth with the skills, knowledge and freedom to voice their opinions and make a difference. The same year, CCE was introduced into the Key Stage Three (11 to 14 year-olds) geography curriculum.\n\nThe report Education for Sustainable Development in the UK 2010 noted that there were signs of substantial progress in embedding ESD-related policies and developing practices in the UK across a wide range of sectors in 2008 and 2009. For example, documents in 2009 highlighted the ‘Sustainable Schools’ project that aims to empower youth to cope with the future challenges facing the planet. The aim is for all schools to be ‘Sustainable Schools’ by 2020.\n\nThe Republic of Korea has a number of policies and initiatives supporting environmental education. In 2008, the Environmental Education Promotion Act encouraged the development of environmental education. It aimed to raise national environmental awareness, to encourage people to develop research and inquiry skills, and to put what they learn into action.\n\nThe Ministry of Environment, in its 2011-2015 Environmental Education Master Plan, proposed a policy agenda for environmental education to be implemented through formal education, social environmental education and educational infrastructure approaches. The various approaches in the formal education area include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38673806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38673806", "title": "Cognitive rigor", "text": "Cognitive rigor\n\nCognitive rigor is a combined model developed by superimposing two existing models for describing rigor that are widely accepted in the education system in the United States. The concept \"is marked and measured by the depth and extent students are challenged and engaged to demonstrate and communicate their knowledge and thinking\" and also \"marks and measures the depth and complexity of student learning experiences.\"\n\nCognitive Rigor is the superposition of Bloom's Taxonomy and Webb's Depth-of-Knowledge levels and is used to categorize the level of abstraction of questions and activities in education. The Cognitive Rigor Matrix assists applying Cognitive Rigor in the classroom. These models are intended for use in curriculum development and lesson planning so that students acquire the rigorous skills and knowledge needed for post-secondary education.\n\nThe idea of interlacing Bloom’s Taxonomy and Webb's Depth-of-Knowledge to create a new tool for measuring curricular quality was completed in 2005 by Karin Hess of the National Center for Assessment, producing a 4 X 6 matrix (the Cognitive Rigor Matrix or Hess Matrix) for categorizing the Bloom’s Taxonomy and Webb's Depth-of-Knowledge levels for each activity or question appearing in curricular materials. The Cognitive Rigor Matrix aligns the six Bloom’s Taxonomy levels along the columns of the matrix and the four Webb's Depth-of-Knowledge levels along the rows.\n\nWorking independently, John Walkup and Ben Jones of The Standards Company LLC developed an identical matrix in 2007 and used it to measure the cognitive rigor of completed student work collected from two large-scale studies of the enacted curriculum in Oklahoma and Nevada. In 2009, Hess, et al. published a paper defining Cognitive Rigor, describing how the model overcomes limitations of using Bloom's Taxonomy, and describing the model's use. The paper shows how Bloom's Taxonomy identifies processes (categorizes cognitive skills), and Webb's Depth of Knowledge shows quantification and application (focuses on depth of understanding and scope of content). The combined models further the application of Bloom's Taxonomy to testing and assessment applications. The Cognitive Rigor Matrix included in the article is often made available as a separate document, with example activities included in each cell of the matrix.\n\nThe Smarter Balanced Assessment Consortium adopted the concept of Cognitive Rigor and the Hess Matrix in 2012 to measure the rigor of test items for the Next Generation of Assessments. Various educational organizations, including the Arizona Department of Education, the New York City Department of Education, Chicago Public Schools, and most states currently use the Cognitive Rigor Matrix in training materials for their professional development.\n\n"}
{"id": "43193746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43193746", "title": "Delhi Public School, Dharan", "text": "Delhi Public School, Dharan\n\nDelhi Public School, Dharan is a school in Dharan, Nepal, run under the aegis of Delhi Public School Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "5325141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325141", "title": "Educational psychologist", "text": "Educational psychologist\n\nAn educational psychologist is a psychologist whose differentiating functions may include diagnostic and psycho-educational assessment, psychological counseling in educational communities (students, teachers, parents and academic authorities), community-type psycho-educational intervention, and mediation, coordination, and referral to other professionals, at all levels of the educational system. Many countries use this term to signify those who provide services to students, their teachers, and families while other countries use this term to signify academic expertise in teaching Educational Psychology.\n\nPsychology is a so well developed discipline that allows different specializations: a) clinical and health psychology, b) work and organizational psychology, c) educational psychology, etc. What differentiates an educational psychologist from other psychologists or specialists is constituted by an academic triangle whose vertexes are represented by three categories: teachers, students and curricula (see diagram). The use of plural in these three cases assumes two meanings: a) the traditional or official one and b) other more general derived from our information and knowledge society. The plural also indicates that nowadays we can no longer consider the average student or teacher, or a closed curriculum, but the enormous variety found in our students, teachers and curricula. The triangle vertexes are connected by two-directional arrows, allowing four-fold typologies instead of the traditional two-way relationships (e.g., teacher-student). In this way, we can find, in different educational contexts, groups of good teachers and students (excellent teaching/learning processes and products), groups of good teachers but bad students, and groups of bad teachers and good students, producing in both cases lower levels of academic achievements. In addition, we can find groups of bad teachers and bad students (school failure).\nThis specific work of an educational psychologist takes place in different contexts: micro-, meso- and macro-systems. Microsystems refer to family contexts, where atmosphere, hidden curriculum, and expectations and behaviors of all family members determine, to a large extent, the educational development of each student. The term mesosystem refers to all variety of contexts found in educational institutions, knowing that different variables such as geographical location, institution marketing or type of teachers and students, etc., can influence the academic results of students. Macrosystem has a much more general and global nature, leading us, for example, to consider the influence that the different societies or countries have on educational final products. One illustrative example of this level can be the analyses carried out on data gathered by the PISA reports. This approach would be the essence of educational psychology versus school psychology for many of U.S. educational researchers and for Division 15 of APA.\n\nThe most noteworthy function is, without a doubt, formal (rather than informal) assessment. This evaluation involves collecting information, in a valid and reliable way, about the three target groups of the triangle diagram (in their respective contexts): teachers, students and curricula. Evaluation is divided in at least two main types: diagnosis (dysfunctions detection such as physical, sensory and intellectual impairments, dyslexia, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, pervasive development disorders or autism spectrum disorders) and psycho-educational evaluation (detection of curriculum difficulties, poor school atmosphere or family problems, etc.). Evaluation implies detection, and, thanks to this, Prevention.\n\nA second function, very relevant too, is psychological counseling. This must be directed to: a) students, in their various dimensions (intellectual, obviously, but also their social, affective and professional dimensions); b) parents, as ‘paraprofessionals’ who may implement programs, selected or developed by educational psychologists, to solve their child/student problems; c) teachers, to whom will be offered psycho-educational support to face psychological difficulties that may be found when implementing and adapting curricula to diversity shown by students; d) academic authorities, who will be helped in their decision-making, regarding the teaching (teaching process) and administrative duties (providing necessary support for students with specific educational needs, decisions about promotion to the next level, and so on).\n\nA third function based on communitarian interventions, with three main facets: corrective, preventative, and optimizing interventions. If disruptive behavior occurs in particular moments and contexts, then a corrective intervention is required. If the aim is school violence reduction, then tertiary preventive intervention programs are needed. If an early diagnosis of learning difficulties is carried out, then psychologist has undertaken secondary prevention. If the aim is to use psycho-educational programs to prevent future school failure, then a primary preventative intervention program is put into practice. The complement to all of these interventions is constituted by a series of optimizing activities, meant for the academic, professional, social, family, and personal improvement of all agents in educational community, especially learners.\n\nA fourth function, or specific activity, is referral of those suffering dysfunctions to other professionals, following a previous diagnostic evaluation, with the aim to coordinate future treatment implementation. This coordination will take place with parents, teachers and other professionals, promoting collaboration among all educational agents in order to get the fastest and best case resolution. This second triangle represents the essential components of school psychology, for some European researchers or division 16 of APA.\n\nNowadays it is a specific Doctoral degree (Masters in Scotland) which generally completes the professional preparation of educational psychologists in the UK. In this Doctorate in Educational Psychology, it is essential a main course which prepares educational psychologists for carrying out diagnostic and psycho-educational assessment, psychological counseling to the educational communities, and all types of communitarian interventions (corrective, preventive and optimizing). Trainees also develop external professional practices (where the specific coordination, evaluation, counseling, and intervention functions will be put into practice) on placement in local authorities, as well as a final thesis. Equally, there are a series of theoretical areas that, due to their relevancy in the teaching/learning contexts, should be included, such as: classroom diversity, drug-dependency prevention, developmental disorders, learning difficulties, new technologies applied to educational contexts and data analysis and interpretation. In sum, taking into account all of this, perhaps educational psychologists will be able to meet adequately demands found in different educational institutions.\n\nThe following qualifications are required: an undergraduate degree in psychology (or approved postgraduate conversion course which confers the BPS Graduate Basis for Registration) and a BPS accredited Doctorate in Educational Psychology (3 years), or, for Scotland only, an accredited master's degree in Educational Psychology. Whilst teaching experience is relevant, it is no longer an entry requirement. At least one year's full-time experience of working with children in educational, childcare or community settings is required and for some courses this may be two years' experience.\n\nTo use the term Educational Psychologist in the UK, one will need to be registered with the Health Care Professionals Council (HCPC), which involves completing a course (Doctorate or Masters) approved by the HCPC.\n\nIn the most basic sense of standards for education requirements in the United States an educational psychologist needs a bachelor's degree, followed by a master's degree, and commonly finishing with a PhD or a PsyD in Educational Psychology. Specifically in California, an educational psychologist candidate (commonly referred to as a LEP or Licensed Educational Psychologist) must have a minimum of a master's degree in psychology or a related field in educational psychology. This degree must be couple with a minimum of three years of experience including two years as a credential school psychologist and one year of supervised professional experience in an accredited school psychology program. After completing these requirements a candidate will then taken an LEP examination to determine if the applicant will be approved. These requirements are widely accepted by the Board of Behavioral Sciences (BBS) and are considered the common standard. States may have varying standards but the aforementioned standards are a commonality when working in a school setting. Another route that can be followed is in the research field. It involves many of the same standards without the direct link of being in a school setting. Those with a research setting are typically employed through a university and do research based on their own and others findings. They may also teach at the university in their respective field.\n\nHandbooks, application forms, and board reviews can be found at various websites:\n\n\nThe average salary of an educational psychologist is variable dependent on where the psychologist depends on practicing. In a school setting the professional can expect to make around $68,000 a year; however, these professionals are commonly school psychologists who have a different background than educational psychologists. An educational psychologist in the research and development field could expect to make around $84,000 per year. Both of these averages could be considered inflated with another source listing the average income of an educational psychologist at around $57,000 per year. However the resounding majority seems to sit at the $67,000 per year range making the previous income average considerably modest. The latest statistics released in 2010 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics place the median annual salary at $72,540 – showing an increase over a four-year period – compared to the median household income of the United States which is currently at $51,000. Educational psychologists make approximately 40% more than the average American, making it an advantageous field of study.\n\nJob outlook in the field of educational psychology is considered in good condition. By national estimates (US) growth in the field ranges from 11–15% between 2006–2022. A report released in 2006 the rate of growth was listed as 15% from 2006–2016, and a separate report released put the growth percentage at a modest 11% from 2012–2022. Considering most job outlook growth percentages of the time, educational psychologists had the highest in the psychology field and was also considered the highest amongst all occupations at the time of its release in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "9835346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9835346", "title": "Elizabeth Burns", "text": "Elizabeth Burns\n\nElizabeth Burns was Dean of Undergraduate Studies at Heythrop College, University of London from 2003–2008 and lectures in Philosophy of Religion.\n\nShe has a BD (specialising in Philosophy of Religion and Ethics) from King's College London, and a PhD from Queens' College, Cambridge. She was a Lecturer in Religious Studies at Suffolk College, Ipswich from 1992 until she came to Heythrop in 1999. From 2000-2003 she was the Course Director for the University of London BD for External Students.\n\nShe currently teaches an intercollegiate Philosophy of Religion course for the University of London MA Philosophy, and also teaches Interpreting Religious Language, and conducts the seminars and tutorials for Philosophy, Religion and Ethics students.\n\nHer publications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "31483317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31483317", "title": "Emergent literacies", "text": "Emergent literacies\n\nEmergent literacy is a term that is used to explain a child's knowledge of reading and writing skills before they learn how to read and write words. It signals a belief that, in literate society, young children—even one- and two-year-olds—are in the process of becoming literate. Through the support of parents, caregivers, and educators, a child can successfully progress from emergent to conventional reading.\n\nThe basic components of emergent literacy include:\n\n\nEmergent literacy is of critical importance in early education in light of research showing that children learn skills that prepare them to read years before they start school.\n\nTraditionally, society has considered reading and writing in their formalistic senses, and viewed children as being knowledgeable about literacy only when they were capable of identifying written words without picture clues, and spelling words that adults could read.\n\nIn 1966, New Zealand researcher Marie Clay introduced the concept of emergent reading, using it to describe the earliest behaviors and concepts young children employ in interacting with books even before they are capable of reading in the conventional sense. The 1970s and early 1980s saw robust research activity in children's early language development, early childhood education, and reexamination of the concept of reading readiness. This work resulted in Teale and Sulzby assembling a book authored by various leading researchers of the time that proposed reconceptualizing what happens from birth to the time when children reading and write conventionally as a period of emergent literacy.\n\nSince then, an extensive body of research has expanded the concept, illuminating that a child's literacy development begins well before formal introduction in school, and can be influenced by social interactions with adults, exposure to literacy materials, and the use of engaged learning activities.\nWhile the concept of reading readiness suggested that there was a point in time when children were ready to learn to read and write, Clay's notion of emergent literacy suggested that there were continuities in children's literacy development between early literacy behaviors and those displayed once children could read independently. Clay also emphasized the importance of the relationship between writing and reading in early literacy development. Until then, it was believed that children must learn to read before they could learn to write.\n\nThis component relates to a child's interest in and enjoyment of books. A child with print motivation might enjoy being read to, playing with books, pretending to write, and going to the library. Children who enjoy books are more likely to want to read, and to keep trying, even when it is hard.\n\nThe component \"vocabulary\" relates to the knowing of the names of things. Children with rich vocabularies are at a tremendous educational advantage, since studies show that vocabulary is the best predictor of reading comprehension at the end of second and third grades and is otherwise linked to overall academic achievement.\n\nThis component relates to noticing print, knowing how to handle a book, and knowing how to follow words on a page. It includes knowing that books are organized from left to right, the words are read from left to right and top to bottom, and how to tell words from letters. These skills are invaluable to a child's literacy development because without these skills, a child will have difficulty learning how to read and write.\n\nThis component relates to the ability to describe things and events and to tell stories.\n\nThis component relates to the understanding that letters are different from each other, knowing their names and sounds, and recognizing letters everywhere.\n\nThis component relates to being able to hear and play with the smaller sounds in words.\nIt involves rhyme recognition, syllables, onset, and rime. Types of phonological awareness include: phonemic awareness, syllable awareness, word awareness, and sentence awareness.\n\nEmergent literacy lessons may focus on one emergent literacy skill or blend them. Below are examples of emerging literacy games and activities that each focus primarily on one emergent literacy skill.\n\nBuilding vocabulary\nSorting games can help children build vocabulary skills by asking them to identify defining characteristics of the items being sorted. Special Connections, a teaching resource website provided by Kansas University, suggests a shoe sorting game in which each child takes off one of his or her shoes. The children work together to sort the shoes by different characteristics, thus building vocabulary related to color, types of fasteners (buckle, velcro), shoe type (sandal, gym shoe), etc. This activity could work with other objects such as legos and pasta. The full activity is available online.\nThe Hanen Centre outlines another strategy for teaching vocabulary to promote emergent literacy.\n\nLetter recognition\nLetter recognition games help children learn the letters of the alphabet. In one simple game, the teacher writes each letter of the alphabet on a separate notecard and passes them out to students. The students then have to arrange themselves in alphabetical order. This game is provided by Special Connections, a teaching resource website provided by the University of Kansas, and is available online.\n\nPhonological awareness\nOne type of phonological awareness game involves rhyming, which helps children identify similar sounds in words. In one rhyming game, the teacher can present three different \"consonant-vowel-consonant\" words and ask children which word does not rhyme. For example, cat, log, and dog. The full activity and other similar rhyming activities are available online.\n\nOther activities include: songs and chants; word play, games, rhymes and riddles; Storybooks, poetry, nursery rhymes, Dr. Seuss;\nOral Storytelling; Clapping, jumping, manipulating letters, blocks.\nEverything should be playful, engaging, interactive, social, deliberate, and purposeful, stimulate curiosity, and encourage experimentation with language and comprehensive language and literacy programs.\n\nPrint motivation\nSince print motivation involves a child's interest and enjoyment of books, there are a variety of activities that parents and teachers can share with children to help promote print motivation. Examples include:\n\nPrint motivation tips adapted from the Loudon County Public Library.\n\nPrint awareness\nPrint awareness is a child's understanding of the parts of a book and how a book works. The State Library of Louisiana suggests an activity in which a child shares the parts of a book with an adult. For example, the teacher or parent could ask the child to point out different parts of the book and its contents, such as the front cover; the title; the first line of the book; a word; a letter; and the back cover.\n\nGeorge Mason University suggests additional family activities. These include: Make a book with your children. You might include familiar photographs with labels under each photo, or children might illustrate the book by themselves. Parents could write the words as the children dictate the story. Or, when going out to a restaurant, show the menu to your children and point to the words as you read to them. Let them choose what they want to eat and make it an interactive experience. This will help children understand how print is connected to real life. Additional activities can be found online.\n\nNarrative skills\nChildren can build narrative skills by describing something that happened to him or her, even something as simple as taking a bath. Parents and teachers can promote narrative skills by prompting children for further detail. Other activities to promote narrative skills in both babies and toddlers are available from the Loudon County Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3640099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3640099", "title": "Employment counsellor", "text": "Employment counsellor\n\nAn employment counsellor,also employment counselor, also known as a career development professional, advises, coaches, provides information to, and supports people who are planning, seeking and managing their life/work direction. Traditionally, employment counselors have been described as helping people deal with vocational decisions concerning choice, change or adjustment to work. A One Stop Career Center Description\n\nEmployment Counseling Competencies\n\nCareer development professionals help clients of all ages:\n\n\nWorking with clients individually or in groups, career development professionals may:\n\n\nCareer development professionals may work in a variety of settings but usually work in offices where they can conduct private interviews with clients and in classrooms or boardrooms where they conduct group sessions. Depending on the organization, their hours of work may include some evening and weekend work.\nCareer development professionals need the following characteristics:\n\nThey should enjoy consulting with people, compiling information and working with clients to develop innovative solutions to problems.\nMost career development professionals have post-secondary education in a related discipline such as psychology, education, social work or human resources development. Increasingly, employers are looking for applicants who have a certificate, diploma or degree in career development, or an equivalent combination of education and experience. One of the certifications that is available is the National Certified Counselor (NCC) credential.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023287", "title": "Gebrauchsmusik", "text": "Gebrauchsmusik\n\nWhile composer Paul Hindemith is probably the figure most identified with this expression, it seems to have been coined within the realm of musicology rather than composition. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the modern academic discipline of musicology was formulated by a mainly German group of scholars who were interested not only in formal development and biographical data, but also to an extent in the sociopolitical position of music throughout history, and the relationship of music and musicians to society at large.\n\nPerhaps the first such musicologist to use the word \"Gebrauchsmusik\" was , writing in 1921 (\"Beiträge zur Geschichte der Tanzmusik im 17. Jahrhundert\", \"Zeitschrift für Musikwissenschaft\", iv [1921–2], 257–65), who employed it in reference to half of his perceived binarism between that 17th-century dance music which was in fact danced to, and that which was written in dance forms but was actually abstract music intended only for listening (by extension, this duality applied to the dichotomy between any music for a specific purpose, \"Gebrauchsmusik\", and that for none but the pleasure or edification of listening, \"Vortragsmusik\").\n\nNettl arrived at this dual-development view of dance music through his observation that such pieces began, as the century progressed, to use stylistic and formal devices that were farther from the province of simple utility and more aligned with some anticipation of a listening audience paying full attention. The period's emerging binary dance form featured such characteristics as an increasing tonicization of foreign keys, an increasingly explicit and emphasized dominant-tonic tonal axis, and a refined delicacy of ornamentation, all of which would seem superfluous in application to a music intended only as the rhythmic accompaniment to physical activity. In addition to these developments in the individual movements, they were organized into ever more extended and stylized suites, which greatly resembled other instrumental forms of the day. Indeed, the mature sonata da camera is virtually indistinguishable from the dance suite of the time.\n\nNettl saw in this situation a clear distinction between music that was intended mainly to be in the service of dancers, and that which was mainly intended to service the ideals of art. In articulating this distinction, however, Nettl did not imply that utility music was unimportant artistically. Instead, he pointed out the importance of social need or desire as a catalyst for artistic development.\n\nTwo years later, also discussing the 17th-century suite (in \"Beiträge zur Stilgeschichte der deutschen Suite im 17. Jahrhundert\", his dissertation of 1923), Heinrich Besseler went a step further, to imply that such utility music was socially superior, if not artistically so. For Besseler, \"aesthetic access\" (\"\") to the dance music was gained through participation, be it playing, dancing, or even singing along, rather than mere listening. He further expounded this thesis in a 1925 article on motets of the Medieval period, in which he proposed that such works had not been designed for the enjoyment of listeners, but with only their devotional purpose in mind; this purpose would only be fulfilled through participation, whether performance or prayer. In making this point, Besseler sought to divide all music into two distinct categories, continuing to use the word \"Gebrauchsmusik\" for one, and likening this to vernacular language, while replacing Nettl's word for the other with \"eigenständige Musik\"—alone-standing, or autonomous music. Besseler had studied philosophy with Martin Heidegger, and thought that this musical duality reflected Heidegger's between \"thing\" and \"equipment\", for the autonomous and the specific-purposed, respectively.\n\nIt was Besseler's notion of this concept which took hold in German musical culture of the 1920s and 1930s, becoming something of a controversy within that sphere, and even spilling into political ideology. Such a distinction had always existed in music, and that some works had always been composed for specific occasions and others not (at least since the Renaissance, in all probability), is attested to by the work of Besseler and Nettl, who based their concepts on studies of the historical situation. Even so, the musicologically conceived term \"Gebrauchsmusik\" somehow came to be construed as a concept of modern political administration. Some composers and government officials identified a need for community music, to be played by amateurs and young people at large festivals; the long German tradition of community singing benefited greatly from this impulse. Hindemith, Kurt Weill, and many others contributed works with such intentions in mind as the fledgling Weimar Republic tried to stave off collapse. The cultural, rather than solely political, nature of this movement will be seen, however, from the observation that Hindemith was for the most part a political agnostic, while Weill was an avowed leftist. Composers, regardless of their political views, were largely in favor of the \"Gebrauchsmusik\" concept at its outset because a recognized need and desire for occasion-tailored works would lead to a constant call for them. All combatants in the political arena saw in community music-making a potential glue with which to unite the German people behind their respective agendas; rather than expend the often wasted effort of regaling them with rhetoric, left and right alike could simply awe the public with spectacle and envelop them in the ecstasy of art. The right wing took \"Gebrauchsmusik\" as a tool when the former began its ascendancy, which is probably the main reason for the latter's increased discredit and abandonment as the decade progressed, and the most important German artists and thinkers departed for more hospitable locales.\n\nA second reason, though, for this discredit was the occurrence to certain composers and their followers that composing music for large-scale public use would lead to a need for them to pander as well to large-scale public taste. Such a concept was anathematic to the art-for-art's-sake ideal which followed alongside that of community music in Germany since the days of Beethoven, who had ushered in the era of the well-regarded and financially successful free-lance composer. Schoenberg wrote to the effect that \"Gebrauchsmusik\" would hardly out-live its present-day application, while that composed for art and no other purpose would have the only chance at immortality. Schoenberg also noted that there had been less and less call for such utility music since the end of the Republic anyway, and certainly since the conclusion of the war. As a result of this, \"Gebrauchsmusik\"'s most ardent promoters had again become \"ideal artists\". (Schoenberg, \"Style and Idea\", 1950). Earlier (articles of 1924 and 1932), the critic Theodor Adorno had called the work of Hindemith and other \"Gebrauchsmusiker\" symptomatic of \"false [social] consciousness\", and condemned it as being not truly useful at all, due to what he considered its lack of emotional content. By the late 1950s, \"Gebrauchsmusik\" had become almost universally a term of insult, especially among composers. No less than Hindemith attempted, somewhat, to back away from it, when in a lecture at Harvard in 1950, he said that \"quite obviously music for which no use can be found, that is to say, useless music, is not entitled to public consideration anyway and consequently the \"Gebrauch\" is taken for granted\", and also that \"[u]p to this day it has been impossible to kill the silly term and the unscrupulous classification that goes with it.\" (quoting himself in \"A Composer's World\", 1952)\n\nAdorno had included Stravinsky among the targets of his anti-\"Gebrauchsmusik\" diatribes, and though the terminology and classification-system under present consideration is clearly and primarily German, the impulse of composers to write and officials to commission music for specific or ceremonial use is quite obviously universal. Stravinsky is perhaps not the best example of a non-German composer in such a vein who was active in the 1920s and 1930s, but he did make his name largely with a series of ballets. Along with these, it will be well-remembered that immortal and beloved works of Orff, Kodály, Bartók, Copland, and many others were written under the impulse of \"Gebrauchsmusik\". As the dawn of the 21st century pushes the blinding political travails of times past into the fog of history, modern commentators have begun to consider that, while \"Gebrauchsmusik\" may compromise the composer in some respects, many of the greatest works of not only the 20th century but the 19th and earlier (witness the French tradition of vast, ceremonial works from that period) were composed with public and popular usage in mind. As Kurt Weill wrote in 1929, the use for which a composition was intended and its artistic value are matters for separate consideration. Indeed, they always have been, and continue to be now; to this attests the continued success of the above-considered composers and their works long after their original \"utility\" has subsided.\n\n"}
{"id": "22567684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22567684", "title": "George Zinkhan", "text": "George Zinkhan\n\nGeorge Martin Zinkhan, III (February 17, 1952 – c. May 9, 2009) was an American academic and poet. Zinkhan was a professor of marketing at the University of Georgia from 1994 until April 26, 2009. He was named as the prime suspect in a triple homicide before authorities announced on May 9, 2009 that they had found and identified Zinkhan's body.\n\nIn 1974, Zinkhan received his Bachelor of Arts in English literature from Swarthmore College. This was followed by a Masters in Business Administration with high distinction from the University of Michigan in 1979. Zinkhan also received his doctorate in Business Administration from the University of Michigan in 1981.\n\nZinkhan was the Conn Professor of Marketing for thirteen years at the University of Houston beginning in 1981. While there, he sexually harassed multiple female academics and ultimately had a lawsuit brought against him. For one year he also was an associate professor for the University of Pittsburgh in 1987. He began as a professor at the University of Georgia's Terry College of Business in 1994, and served as Department head for Terry's Department of Marketing and Distribution from 1994 until 2001. He held an endowed chair as the department's Coca-Cola Company Professor from 1994 to 2009. According to a university spokesman, he had an impeccable track record as a teacher and was a respected professor on campus.\n\nZinkhan received an award for Outstanding Contribution to Research in 2004 which was presented by the American Academy of Advertising. He also received the \"Terry Outstanding Faculty Award\" 2006 and 2009 presented by the economics faculty of the Vrije Universiteit.\n\nZinkhan published over 100 articles in peer-reviewed academic journals, as well as numerous chapters in edited books. He was the editor of the \"Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science\" from 2003 to 2006, and of the \"Journal of Advertising\" from 1991 to 1995, as well as the book review editor of the \"Journal of Marketing\" from 1991 to 1995. In addition, he edited or co-edited several books:\n\nZinkhan's \"curriculum vitae\" listed 22 works under a section called, \"Research Activities: Poetry\". Zinkhan's poems—many of which the American Marketing Association published on its website—cover topics ranging from university politics to the Appalachian Trail.\n\nZinkhan had two children, a son and a daughter, with his wife, attorney Marie Bruce. Zinkhan also had three children from a previous marriage. The family lived in the town of Bogart in the U.S. state of Georgia. Zinkhan owned a second home in Amsterdam, the capital of the Netherlands, where he was a marketing professor at the Vrije Universiteit.\n\nZinkhan was named the prime suspect in the April 25, 2009, shooting deaths of his wife and two other people, Tom Tanner and Ben Teague, outside the Athens Community Theatre in Athens-Clarke County in northeast Georgia. The murders occurred during a picnic reunion of the Town & Gown Players, and all three of those killed were active in local theater productions. Two bystanders were injured by bullet fragments. According to neighbors and colleagues, there had been no advance signs of trouble. Police said Zinkhan and his wife, Marie Bruce, were having “marital difficulties,” that Tom Tanner appeared to be his “specific target” in the shootings and that Ben Teague was “at the wrong place at the wrong time.” Tanner was shot first, police said. On the same day, \"Zinkhan was charged with three counts of murder and a state arrest warrant was issued in Clarke County, Georgia. A federal arrest warrant was issued on April 26, 2009, after he was charged with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution.\"\n\nZinkhan's red Jeep Liberty was found on the night of April 30, 2009, in northwest Clarke County, Georgia. Cadaver dogs located Zinkhan's body on May 9, 2009, approximately one mile from the Jeep.\nInvestigators said that Zinkhan used a shovel to dig a grave in the woods behind Cleveland Road Elementary, lay down in it, took an old wooden pallet he had covered with dirt and debris and pulled it over top of the hole. He then fired a single shot from a .38-caliber handgun into his head.\n\nZinkhan's body was claimed by a son from a previous marriage one day before it was scheduled for burial in a pauper's grave by the Athens-Clarke County coroner's office.\n"}
{"id": "31719954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31719954", "title": "Going broke universities – Disappearing universities", "text": "Going broke universities – Disappearing universities\n\nThe Going broke universities – Disappearing universities (危ない大学・消える大学 \"Abunai Daigaku Kieru Daigaku\") is a ranking book about Japanese Universities by Japanese journalist , published annually since 1993.\n\nAlthough there are several university rankings in Japan, most of them rank universities by their entrance difficulties often called \"Hensachi\" or by alumni's successes. Especially, the Hensachi Rankings have been most commonly used for university ranking. From this view point, GBUDU is a typical ranking book in Japan.\n\nThe GBUDU ranks Japanese Universities in terms of the entrance difficulty and selectivity. The author's main argument is that more selective universities have better quality, and generally guarantee students better future careers. Thus people should avoid least selective universities, and try to enter more selective ones as much as they can.\n\nThe GBUDU rankings are made by the average scores of Hensachi estimated by Japanese major prep school . Consequently, it can be regarded as a summary of the selectivity of Japanese universities.\n\nHe prepared the following 10 scales to measure universities' entrance difficulties.\n\nThe following data is the 2010 ranking table in Rank SA - Rank B.\n\n"}
{"id": "41323414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41323414", "title": "Iain Thomson", "text": "Iain Thomson\n\nIain D. Thomson (born 1968) is an American philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at the University of New Mexico.\n\nThomson studied as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley, where he worked with Hubert Dreyfus, and then earned his Ph.D. in philosophy at the University of California, San Diego. As a visiting graduate student at UC Irvine, he also studied with Jacques Derrida. He is known for his expertise on Heidegger's philosophy, philosophy of education, philosophy of technology, philosophy of art, philosophy of literature and environmental philosophy.\n\nThomson received the Gunter Starkey Award for Teaching Excellence and a National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Research Fellowship. He is featured in Tao Ruspoli's film Being in the World. His articles on Heidegger have been published in such journals as \"Inquiry\", \"Journal of the History of Philosophy\", \"The Harvard Review of Philosophy\", the \"International Journal of Philosophical Studies\", and the \"Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "437531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437531", "title": "James Salter", "text": "James Salter\n\nJames Arnold Horowitz (June 10, 1925 – June 19, 2015), better known as James Salter, his pen name and later-adopted legal name, was an American novelist and short-story writer. Originally a career officer and pilot in the United States Air Force, he resigned from the military in 1957 following the successful publication of his first novel, \"The Hunters\".\n\nAfter a brief career in film writing and film directing, in 1979 Salter published the novel \"Solo Faces\". He won numerous literary awards for his works, including belated recognition of works originally criticized at the time of their publication. His friend and fellow author, the Pulitzer Prize-winner Richard Ford, went so far as to say, \"It is an article of faith among readers of fiction that James Salter writes American sentences better than anybody writing today\" in his Introduction to \"Light Years\" for Penguin Modern Classics. Michael Dirda of the \"Washington Post\" is reported to have said that with a single sentence, he could break one's heart. In an introduction to the final interview he gave before his death, \"Guernica\" described Salter as having \"a good claim to being the greatest living American novelist.\"\n\nOn June 10, 1925 Salter was born and named James Arnold Horowitz, the son of Mildred Scheff and George Horowitz. His father was a real estate broker and businessman, who had graduated from West Point in November 1918 as World War I was ending and served briefly in the United States Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nJames Horowitz grew up in Manhattan, where he attended P.S.6, and the Horace Mann School – his classmates included Julian Beck, while Jack Kerouac was in a more junior class.\n\nWhile Horowitz intended to study at Stanford University or MIT, he entered West Point on July 15, 1942, at the urging of his father – who had rejoined the Corps of Engineers in July 1941, in anticipation of war breaking out. (With others from his original Class of 1919, George Horowitz was called back to West Point after a month of duty to complete a post-graduate officer's course.) Like his father, Horowitz's time at West Point was shortened due to wartime class sizes were greatly increased and the curriculum drastically shortened. He graduated in 1945 after just three years, ranked 49th in general merit in his class of 852. \n\nHe completed flight training during his first class year, with primary flight training at Pine Bluff, Arkansas, and advanced training at Stewart Field, New York. On a cross-country navigation flight in May 1945, his flight became scattered and, low on fuel, he mistook a railroad trestle for a runway, crash-landing his T-6 Texan training craft into a house in Great Barrington, Massachusetts. Possibly as a result, he was assigned to multi-engine training in B-25s until February 1946. He received his first unit assignment with the 6th Troop Carrier Squadron, stationed at Nielson Field, the Philippines; Naha Air Base, Okinawa; and Tachikawa Air Base, Japan. He was promoted to 1st lieutenant in January 1947.\n\nHorowitz was transferred in September 1947 to Hickam AFB, Hawaii, then entered post-graduate studies at Georgetown University in August 1948, receiving his master's degree in January 1950. He was assigned to the headquarters of Tactical Air Command at Langley AFB, Virginia, in March 1950, where he remained until volunteering for assignment in the Korean War. He arrived in Korea in February 1952 after transition training in the F-86 Sabre with the 75th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron at Presque Isle Air Force Base, Maine. He was assigned to the 335th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron, 4th Fighter-Interceptor Wing, a renowned MiG-hunting unit. He flew more than 100 combat missions between February 12 and August 6, 1952 and was credited with a MiG-15 victory on July 4, 1952. \n\nHorowitz used his Korean experience for his first novel, \"The Hunters\" (1956), which was made into a film in 1958 starring Robert Mitchum.\n\nThe film adaptation of \"The Hunters\" was honored with acclaim for its powerful performances, moving plot, and realistic portrayal of the Korean War. Although an excellent adaptation by Hollywood standards, it was very different from the original novel, which dealt with the slow self-destruction of a 31-year-old fighter pilot, who had once been thought a \"hot shot\" but who found only frustration in his first combat experience while others around him achieved glory, some of it perhaps invented.\n\nHorowitz subsequently was stationed in Germany and France, promoted to major, and assigned to lead an aerial demonstration team; he became a squadron operations officer, in line to become a squadron commander. In his off-duty time he worked on his fiction, completing a manuscript that eventually was rejected by publishers, and another that became \"The Hunters\". Despite the responsibilities of a spouse and two small children, he abruptly left active duty with the Air Force in 1957 to pursue his writing, a decision he found difficult because of his passion for flying. In total, he had served twelve years in the US Air Force, the last six as a fighter pilot.\n\nHis works based on his Air Force experiences have a fatalistic tone: his protagonists, after struggling with conflicts between their reputations and self-perceptions, tend to be killed in the performance of their duties while inept antagonists within their own ranks soldier on.\n\nHis 1961 novel \"The Arm of Flesh\" drew on his experiences flying with the 36th Fighter-Day Wing at Bitburg Air Base, Germany, between 1954 and 1957. An extensively-revised version of the novel was reissued in 2000 as \"Cassada\". Salter however, later disdained both of his \"Air Force\" novels as products of youth \"not meriting much attention.\" After several years in the Air Force Reserve, he severed his military connection completely in 1961 by resigning his commission after his unit was called up to active duty for the Berlin Crisis.\n\nHe moved back to New York with his family and legally changed his name to Salter.\n\nSalter and his first wife Ann divorced in 1975, having had four children: Allan (born 1955, died 1980), Nina (born 1957), Claude and James (twins, born 1962). Starting in 1976 he lived with journalist and playwright Kay Eldredge. They had a son, Theo Salter, born in 1985, and they married in Paris in 1998. Eldredge and Salter co-authored a book entitled \"Life Is Meals: A Food Lover's Book of Days\", in 2006.\n\nSalter took up film writing, first as a writer of independent documentary films, winning a prize at the Venice Film Festival in collaboration with television writer Lane Slate (\"Team, Team, Team\"). He also wrote for Hollywood, although disdainful of it. His last script, commissioned and then rejected by Robert Redford, became his novel, \"Solo Faces\".\n\nWidely regarded as one of the most artistic writers of modern American fiction, Salter was critical of his own work, having said that only his 1967 novel \"A Sport and a Pastime\" comes close to living up to his standards. Set in post-war France, \"A Sport and a Pastime\" is a piece of erotica involving an American student and a young Frenchwoman, told as flashbacks in the present tense by an unnamed narrator who barely knows the student, also yearns for the woman, and freely admits that most of his narration is fantasy. Many characters in Salter's short stories and novels reflect his passion for European culture and, in particular, for France, which he describes as a \"secular holy land.\"\n\nSalter's prose shows the apparent influence of both Ernest Hemingway and Henry Miller, but in interviews with his biographer, William Dowie, Salter states that he was most influenced by André Gide and Thomas Wolfe. His writing often is described by reviewers as \"succinct\" or \"compressed\", with short sentences and sentence fragments, and switching between first and third persons, as well as between the present and past tenses. His dialogue is attributed only when necessary to keep clear who is speaking, otherwise he allows the reader to draw inferences from tone and motivation.\n\nHis 1997 memoir \"Burning the Days\" uses this prose style to chronicle the impact his experiences at West Point, in the Air Force, and as a celebrity pseudo-expatriate in Europe had on the way he viewed his life-style changes. Although it appears to celebrate numerous episodes of adultery, in fact, Salter is reflecting on what has transpired and the impressions of him it has left, just as does his poignant reminiscence on the death of his daughter. A line from \"The Hunters\" expresses these feelings: \"They knew nothing of the past and its holiness.\"\n\nSalter published a collection of short stories, \"Dusk and Other Stories\" in 1988. The collection received the PEN/Faulkner Award, and one of its stories (\"Twenty Minutes\") became the basis for the 1996 film \"Boys\". He was elected to The American Academy of Arts and Letters in 2000. In 2012, PEN/Faulkner Foundation selected him for the 25th PEN/Malamud Award saying that his works show the readers \"how to work with fire, flame, the laser, all the forces of life at the service of creating sentences that spark and make stories burn\".\n\nHis final novel, \"All That Is,\" was published to excellent reviews in 2013.\n\nSalter's writings—including correspondence, manuscripts, and heavily revised typescript drafts for all of his published works including short stories and screenplays—are archived at the Harry Ransom Center in Austin, Texas.\n\nIn the fall of 2014 Salter became the first Kapnick Writer-in-Residence at the University of Virginia.\n\nHe died on June 19, 2015 in Sag Harbor, New York.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "554668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554668", "title": "Jane Delano", "text": "Jane Delano\n\nJane Arminda Delano, born March 13, 1862 in Montour Falls, New York – died April 15, 1919 in Savenay, Loire-Atlantique, France, was a nurse and founder of the American Red Cross Nursing Service.\n\nA descendant of one of the first settlers to America, Philippe de la Noye (Delano) (1602–1681) Jane Delano attended Cook Academy, a Baptist boarding school in her hometown then studied nursing at the Bellevue Hospital School of Nursing in New York City, where she graduated in 1886.\n\nShe started work in 1888 at a Jacksonville, Florida hospital treating victims of a yellow fever epidemic. There, she demonstrated her superior executive and administrative skills and developed innovative nursing procedures for the patients under her care. Leaving Florida, Jane Delano then spent three years nursing typhoid patients at a copper mine in Bisbee, Arizona until accepting an appointment as the Superintendent of Nurses at University Hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1898, during the Spanish–American War, Jane Delano became a member of the New York Chapter of the American Red Cross and served as the secretary for the enrollment of nurses. In 1902 she returned to Bellevue Hospital in New York City as the director of the Training School for Nurses where she remained until 1909 when she was made Superintendent of the United States Army Nurse Corps. During this time, her invaluable contributions to her profession resulted in her being named president of the American Nurses Association and chair of the National Committee of the Red Cross Nursing Service.\n\nA leading pioneer of the modern nursing profession, Delano almost single-handedly created American Red Cross Nursing when she united the work of the American Nurses Association, the Army Nurse Corps, and the American Red Cross. Through her efforts, emergency response teams were organized for disaster relief and over 8,000 registered nurses were trained and ready for duty by the time the United States entered World War I. During the course of the War, more than 20,000 of her nurses played vital roles with the United States military. For her contributions during the war she was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal by the Secretary of the Army.\n\nJane Delano died in France while on a Red Cross mission, expiring at Base Hospital No. 8 in Savenay of Loire-Inferieure, and was interred in a cemetery in the Loire Valley. The mission was to participate in and represent the American Red Cross at the preliminary conference of Red Cross workers and health experts of the world being held at Cannes. Awarded the Distinguished Service Medal posthumously, the year following her death her remains were brought back to the United States by the Army Quartermaster Corps and re-interred in the nurses section at Arlington National Cemetery. At the top of the hill overlooking the nurses section is a bronze memorial to Jane Delano and the 296 nurses who lost their lives during World War I. Military funeral services, prior to burial, were held Saturday, September 18, 1920. A number of representatives of the American Red Cross, Army officers of the Army Medical Corps, and a delegation of uniformed nurses attended the funeral. A detachment of Army troops and a military band from Fort Myers acted as an escort for the body when it was taken to the grave from the vault at Arlington Cemetery. All present stood silent as \"taps\" was given over the grave of Miss Delano.\n\nDelano has been honored many times for her dedication to humanity. She was named to the American Nurses Association Hall of Fame and at Schuyler County Hospital in Dix, New York there is a Jane Delano Memorial with a display of personal items including a number of her awards and medals. In 1990, the National Nursing Advisory Committee formed the \"Jane Delano Society\" to ensure active nursing involvement at all levels of the Red Cross and to preserve artifacts that document the history of Red Cross nursing.\n\n"}
{"id": "46711498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46711498", "title": "Janet Lilly", "text": "Janet Lilly\n\nJanet Lilly (born August 15, 1957) is an American modern dancer and choreographer. She was a principal dancer for Bill T. Jones and Arnie Zane's company from 1983–1991. She currently serves as the Director of the UNCG College of Visual and Performing Arts, School of Dance at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. From 2012–2014 she was the president of the Board of Directors of Iyengar Yoga National United States Association.\n\nLilly grew up in Iowa City, Iowa and graduated from University High in 1975.\n\nLilly graduated from New York University's Tisch School of the Arts in 1982 with a Bachelor of Arts in Dance. She was a principal dancer with the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company from 1983 until 1991. She also worked as a master teacher, rehearsal director, and choreographic assistant for the company. She went on to attend the University of Michigan's School of Music, Theatre & Dance for her graduate degree, graduating summa cum laude in 1992. Lilly taught at the Peck School of Art's Department of Dance at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee for fifteen years and served as the Dance Department Chair from 2005 to 2009. In 2011 she joined the faculty of the UNCG School of Music, Theatre and Dance at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, succeeding Jan Van Dyke as the Dance Department Chair. In 2016, the Department of Dance became the School of Dance with the creation of the UNCG College of Visual and Performing Arts, with Lilly serving as Director of the School. Lilly also serves on the Commission on Accreditation of the National Association of Schools of Dance.\n\n\nLilly began studying Iyengar Yoga in 1992 while a student in graduate school, where she studied with Laurie Blakeney at the Ann Arbor School of Yoga in Michigan. She has been teaching since 1995. She has studied at the Iyengar Institute in Pune, India under B. K. S. Iyengar seven times. She was granted a four-month residency at the University of Pune. From 2012–2014 she was the president of the Iyengar National United States Association. She teaches yoga at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro and at Triad Yoga in Greensboro.\n"}
{"id": "54312587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54312587", "title": "Juana Bordas", "text": "Juana Bordas\n\nJuana María Bordas (born 1942) is a Nicaraguan–American community activist specializing in leadership development and diversity training. She is a founder of several Denver, Colorado-area organizations promoting Latino and Latina leadership, including the Mi Casa Resource Center for Women, the National Hispana Leadership Institute, and Mestiza Leadership International, where she currently serves as president. She has authored two books and is a motivational speaker and workshop presenter for conferences and businesses. The recipient of numerous awards and honors, she was inducted into the Colorado Women's Hall of Fame in 1997.\n\nJuana María Bordas was born in a small mining town in Nicaragua in 1942. She is one of seven children. Her father left the family to earn money in the United States when she was a baby; at age 3, she and her older siblings and mother followed him to Tampa, Florida, on a banana boat.\n\nShe attended the Academy of the Holy Names, a Catholic all-girls high school, on a scholarship, and babysat during Sunday services at a local church to cover the rest of her tuition. She was the first in her family to attend college. She became involved in campus activism at the University of Florida; in 1963 she joined a march to the administration building to protest the non-enrollment of minority students. She earned her undergraduate degree at the University of Florida and her master's degree in social work at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.\n\nInspired by her parents, who believed that education was key to Latino advancement, and by President John F. Kennedy, who spoke on campus about the need to \"give back to your country\", she joined the Peace Corps after completing her undergraduate degree. In Santiago, Chile, she helped low-income men and women develop cooperative enterprises. Her 1964–1966 stint afforded her the first exposure to Latinos in positions of leadership, both in the economic and political realms.\n\nBordas moved to Denver in 1971. In 1976 she helped found the Mi Casa Resource Center for Women, which she led as executive director for the next decade. In 1987 she co-founded the National Hispana Leadership Institute, which grooms Latinas for leadership roles on the national level. She was president of the Institute for its first seven years. She was also the first Latina faculty member of the Center for Creative Leadership, and the first Hispanic certified psychiatric social worker in Colorado.\n\nIn 1993 she introduced the Latino Leadership Development Program, which provides individual assessments and coaching for Latinos interested in contributing to private and community initiatives. In 1995 she established the consulting firm Mestiza Leadership International, which provides diversity training and leadership programs in the workforce. In 2002 she debuted the Circle of Latina Leadership, which runs a nine-month community leadership development course and personal mentoring program for women aged 25 to 40.\n\nBordas is a motivational speaker and workshop facilitator for many public and private organizations. She was the Fall 2008 Scholar in Residence at Frostburg State University.\n\nBordas has served as an advisor for the \"Hispanic Journal on Public Policy\" at Harvard University and the Kellogg National Fellows Program. She was vice chair of the Greenleaf Center for Servant Leadership, and a trustee of the International Leadership Association and Union Institute & University. In 1993 she was considered for the post of Peace Corps director by the Clinton administration; the position was ultimately filled by Carol Bellamy.\n\nBordas published her first book, \"Salsa, Soul, and Spirit: Leadership for a Multicultural Age\", in 2007. The book presents eight principles of multicultural leadership gleaned from Latino, African American, and Native American cultures. It also profiles leaders from those backgrounds. In the book, Bordas mentions a common impediment for educational advancement in the Latino community called the \"crab syndrome\":\n\nMy parents wanted to protect me; they struggled with my decision to leave home to attend college. They were also afraid that once I left, I wouldn't come back. This tendency to hold on to people for safekeeping, which sometimes prevents them from leaving, is commonly known as the crab syndrome by many people in communities of color.\n\nBordas' second book, \"The Power of Latino Leadership: Culture, Inclusion, and Contribution\", was published in 2013. Centering on Latino issues, the book sets forth ten principles of Latino leadership gleaned from the culture. Both books were \"well-received by minority and corporate leadership experts\". \"Salsa, Soul, and Spirit\" won the 2007 International Latino Book Award for best leadership book, and \"The Power of Latino Leadership\" received the 2014 Nautilus Award for best multicultural/indigenous book and the International Latino Book Award for best business/leadership book.\n\nBordas was inducted into the Colorado Women's Hall of Fame in 1997. She has received numerous awards and honors, including the 2006 Leadership Legacy Award from the Spellman College Center for Leadership; the 2008 Martin Luther King Jr. Social Responsibility Award; the 2009 Unique Woman of Colorado from \"The Denver Post\" and the Women's Foundation of Colorado; the 2015 Colorado's Most Influential and Powerful Women from the Colorado Diversity Council; the Outstanding Women in Business Award from the \"Denver Business Journal\"; and the Franklin Williams Award from the Peace Corps for \"lifelong commitment to advancing communities of color\".\n\nUnion Institute & University gave her an honorary Doctor of humane letters in 2009.\n\nBordas has three daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10974571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10974571", "title": "Juliette Derricotte", "text": "Juliette Derricotte\n\nJuliette Derricotte (April 1, 1897 – November 7, 1931) was an African-American educator and political activist whose death after receiving racist treatment after a fatal car accident in Chattanooga, Tennessee, sparked outrage in the African-American community. At the time of her death she was Dean of Women at Fisk University.\n\nShe was born in Athens, Georgia, the fifth of nine children of Isaac Derricotte and Laura Derricotte, a cobbler and a seamstress. As a child, she was hopeful of attending the local Institute and was crushed when her mother told her she would be unable due to her color. This event helped shape Juliette's perception of the world and her desire to change people's racial prejudices.\n\nHer drive for education helped land her in Talladega College, where she ended up getting a scholarship for her public speaking. After she graduated in 1918, she enrolled at the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) Training School. She then became the YWCA secretary of the National Student Council. Her responsibilities included visiting colleges, planning conferences, and fostering ideas and leadership. She is credited with recreating the council in ideology, helping it become more balanced, open, and most importantly, interracial.\n\nIn 1924, Derricotte became a member of the World Student Christian Federation and began traveling the world as a delegate representing American colleges. In 1927, she received a master's degree in religious education from Columbia University. She resigned her YWCA position in 1929 to become Dean of Women at Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nDerricotte was an active member of Delta Sigma Theta, and was affiliated with the sorority's first graduate chapter in New York City. After her death Delta established a scholarship fund in her honor, it would be awarded to members of the sorority who are employed in the social work field. \n\nDerricotte died in a traffic accident in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in 1931. While she was riding in a car driven by a student, they collided with a white couple. Both Derricotte and the student were seriously injured. Although they received emergency treatment from white doctors, they were refused admittance to the local hospital because they were black. They were moved to a local woman's house, and both died by morning. This triggered national outrage and several investigations, one involving the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.\n\nIn the 1930s, Sue Bailey Thurman who had been inspired by Derricotte's ideas about learning and travel, established a scholarship fund, the Juliette Derricotte Scholarship, which allowed African-American undergraduate women of high academic achievement to study and travel abroad. One of the recipients of her scholarship was Margaret Bush Wilson, who revived the fund decades later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29716928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29716928", "title": "Khazar University School of Humanities and Social Sciences", "text": "Khazar University School of Humanities and Social Sciences\n\nThe Khazar University School of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS) is the largest academic division at Khazar University and offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs in a wide range of disciplines. The primary language of instruction and research is English and the curricula correspond to the standards of leading higher education institutions in the West. Students, faculty and researchers are capable of keeping pace with global developments in their fields, using best practices and effectively communicating with scholarly communities all over the globe. Its degree programs are highly respected and recognized throughout the region.\n\nThe idea of the School of Humanities developed in a year after Khazar University was founded. The importance of nourishing the younger generation of specialists in humanities was prioritized by the University in 1992 and several departments were established henceforth.\n\nThe school chose as its mission learning, preserving and spreading Azerbaijani national and cultural values embedded in our heritage as well as appreciating diversity and welcoming universal values. In 2004, the idea of merging the School of Humanities with several departments at the School of Law and Social Sciences was discussed; in 2005 the School of Humanities transformed into the School of Humanities and Social Sciences.\n\nThe School of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS) is the largest academic division at Khazar University and offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs in a wide range of disciplines. At SHSS students have an opportunity to gain knowledge and polish skills across a variety of disciplines in Humanities and Social Sciences, including languages and literatures, Political Science, International Affairs, History, Journalism, Religious Studies and Philosophy programs. In addition, a wide range of courses are offered in Sociology, Psychology, and Anthropology.\n\nIn addition to well-developed Bachelor programs in English Language/Literature, Translation Studies, and Journalism, the Bachelor of Arts in English/Arabic and in English/Persian are offered by the Department of English and the Department of Eastern Languages and Religious Studies.\n\nThe Bachelor of Arts in Journalism/English is an interdepartmental degree program offered jointly by the Department of Journalism with the Department of English.\n\nThe Department of Political Science and International Relations offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in Political Science with concentration in Political Theory, Peace and Conflict Studies, and Area Studies, such as Middle Eastern Studies and European Public Affairs. The Department also offers separate degree programs in International Relations, both on undergraduate and graduate levels.\n\nThe programs leading to the Master of Arts degree include Linguistics, Area Studies, Political Science, International Relations, Translation Studies, Journalism, Interlingua Relations.\n\nThe preparations are underway to initiate undergraduate and graduate degree program majors and minors in Philosophy, Psychology, Applied Arts, Music and other fields.\n\nAll students admitted into the graduate programs with a BA degree must enter the MA course of study, which also serves as the first phase of the Ph.D. program. Then Ph.D. programs are developed for students with strong research interest in the field. The students admitted to non-English graduate should take at least two English language courses (minimum of 6 credits) offered by the English Language and Literature Department if their level of English is not advanced.\n\nThe SHSS has an excellent reputation. The faculty of SHSS is drawn predominantly from teachers and scholars with solid Western European and North American training. Since the primary language of instruction and research is English and the curricula correspond to the standards of leading higher education institutions in the West, students, faculty and researchers are capable of keeping the pace with global developments in their fields, using best practices and effectively communicating with scholarly communities all over the globe. Its degree programs are highly respected and recognized throughout the region.\n\nGraduates of the SHSS are highly regarded in Azerbaijan and around the world. The SHSS alumni work for state and social institutions. Among the top national employers are the President’s Administration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Ministry of Education. Most of the school graduates work for leading local academic institutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29573333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29573333", "title": "Language education by region", "text": "Language education by region\n\nPractices in language education vary significantly by region. Firstly, the languages being learned differ; in the United States, Spanish is the most popular language to be learned, whereas the most popular languages to be learned in Australia are Italian and Mandarin Chinese. Also, teaching methods tend to differ by region. Language immersion is popular in some European countries, but is not used very much in the United States.\n\n1995 European Commission’s White Paper \"Teaching and learning – Towards the learning society\", stated that \"upon completing initial training, everyone should be proficient in two Community foreign languages\". The Lisbon Summit of 2000 defined languages as one of the five key skills.\n\nIn fact, even in 1974, at least one foreign language was compulsory in all but two European member states: Ireland and the United Kingdom (apart from Scotland). By 1998 nearly all pupils in Europe studied at least one foreign language as part of their compulsory education, the only exception being the Republic of Ireland, where primary and secondary schoolchildren learn both Irish and English, but neither is considered a foreign language although a third European language is also taught. Pupils in upper secondary education learn at least \"two\" foreign languages in Belgium, France, Denmark, Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg, Finland, Sweden, Iceland, Switzerland, Greece, Croatia, Cyprus, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and Slovakia.\n\nOn average in Europe, at the start of foreign language teaching, pupils have lessons for three to four hours a week. Compulsory lessons in a foreign language normally start at the end of primary school or the start of secondary school. In Luxembourg, Norway, Italy and Malta, however, the first foreign language starts at age six, in Sweden at age seven and in Belgium at age 10. About half of the EU's primary school pupils learn a foreign language.\n\nEnglish is the language taught most often at lower secondary level in the EU. There, 93% of children learn English. At upper secondary level, English is even more widely taught. French is taught at lower secondary level in all EU countries except Slovenia. A total of 33% of European Union pupils learn French at this level. At upper secondary level the figure drops slightly to 28%. German is taught in nearly all EU countries. A total of 13% of pupils in the European Union learn German in lower secondary education, and 20% learn it at an upper secondary level.\n\nDespite the high rate of foreign language teaching in schools, the number of adults claiming to speak a foreign language is generally lower than might be expected. This is particularly true of native English speakers: in 2004 a British survey showed that only one in 10 UK workers could speak a foreign language. Less than 5% could count to 20 in a second language, for example. 80% said they could work abroad anyway, because \"everyone speaks English.\" In 2001, a European Commission survey found that 65.9% of people in the UK spoke only their native tongue.\n\nSince the 1990s, the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages has tried to standardize the learning of languages across Europe (one of the first results being UNIcert).\n\nIn some countries, learners have lessons taken entirely in a foreign language: for example, more than half of European countries with a minority or regional language community use partial immersion to teach both the minority and the state language.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, some central and eastern European countries created a system of bilingual schools for well-performing pupils. Subjects other than languages were taught in a foreign language. In the 1990s this system was opened to all pupils in general education, although some countries still make candidates sit an entrance exam. At the same time, Belgium's French community, France, the Netherlands, Austria and Finland also started bilingual schooling schemes. Germany meanwhile had established some bilingual schools in the late 1960s.\n\nIn most school systems, foreign language is taken in high school, with many schools requiring one to three years of foreign language in order to graduate. In some school systems, foreign language is also taught during middle school, and recently, many elementary schools have begun teaching foreign languages as well. However, foreign language immersion programs are growing in popularity, making it possible for elementary school children to begin serious development of a second language.\n\nIn 2008 the Center for Applied Linguistics conducted an extensive survey documenting foreign language study in the United States. The most popular language is Spanish, due to the large number of recent Spanish-speaking immigrants to the United States (see Spanish in the United States). According to this survey, in 2008 88% of language programs in elementary schools taught Spanish, compared to 93% in secondary schools. Other languages taught in U.S. high schools in 2008, in descending order of frequency, were French, German, Latin, Mandarin Chinese, American Sign Language, Italian, and Japanese. During the Cold War, the United States government pushed for Russian education, and some schools still maintain their Russian programs. Other languages recently gaining popularity include Arabic. The Center for Applied Linguistics also conducted a study that concluded that while the number of schools from the elementary to secondary level offering foreign language instruction are on the rise, a pitfall of the curriculum is that students are not becoming proficient in the target languages. Researchers also note that American students of foreign languages significantly underperform in comparison to their European and Asian counterparts. It has been suggested that a system where foreign language instruction is required from PK-12 should be implemented in order to fix this problem.\n\nPrior to European colonisation, there were hundreds of Aboriginal languages, taught in a traditional way. The arrival of a substantial number of Irish in the first English convict ships meant that European Australia was not ever truly monolingual. When the gold rushes of the 1850s trebled the white population, it brought many more Welsh speakers, who had their own language newspapers through to the 1870s, but the absence of language education meant that these Celtic languages never flourished.\n\nWaves of European migration after World War II brought \"community languages,\" sometimes with schools. However, from 1788 until modern times it was generally expected that immigrants would learn English and abandon their first language. The wave of multicultural policies since the 1970s has softened aspects of these attitudes.\n\nIn 1982 a bipartisan committee of Australian parliamentarians was appointed and identified a number of guiding principles that would support a National Policy on Languages (NPL). Its trend was towards bilingualism in all Australians, for reasons of fairness, diversity and economics.\n\nIn the 1990s the Australian Languages and Literacy Policy (ALLP) was introduced, building on the NPL, with extra attention being given to the economic motivations of second language learning. A distinction became drawn between priority languages and community languages. The ten priority languages identified were Mandarin, French, German, Modern Greek, Indonesian, Japanese, Italian, Korean, Spanish and Aboriginal languages.\n\nHowever, Australia's federal system meant that the NPL and ALLP direction was really an overall policy from above without much engagement from the states and territories. The NALSAS strategy united Australian Government policy with that of the states and territories. It focused on four targeted languages: Mandarin, Indonesian, Japanese and Korean. This would be integrated into studies of Society and Environment, English and Arts.\n\nBy 2000, the top ten languages enrolled in the final high school year were, in descending order: Japanese, French, German, Chinese, Indonesian, Italian, Greek, Vietnamese, Spanish and Arabic. In 2002, only about 10% of Year 12 included at least one language other than English (LOTE) among their course choices.\nIn 2009, Lo Bianco and Slaughter, recommended a new approach, stating that “What is needed is a universal apprenticeship in learning how to learn languages”. An apprenticeship language is a relatively easy language which is taught to overcome the limitations of monolingualism, in preparation for later mastery of a different language or languages. \n\nReasons to use an apprenticeship language are:\n\n\nA resource and method has been devised to implement the ALL approach by equipping generalist primary (elementary) teachers to teach the simple designed language Esperanto as a first, fluent, intercultural, foreign language.\n\nThe professional body for teachers of foreign languages in Australia is the Australian Federation of Modern Language Teachers Associations.\n\nNative Cantonese-speaking Hong Kong children commence learning English and maybe also Mandarin from age 3 when they go to kindergarten and continue until they finish their secondary education. The Hong Kong government's language policy is to produce people who are biliterate in English and Written Chinese and trilingual in Cantonese, Mandarin and English. In order to enter university in Hong Kong, students must pass both English and Chinese exams, or in the case of those who did not learn Chinese at school, due to having studied at an international school, another foreign language.\n\nSince 2014 it has been compulsory for primary school children to be taught at least one language. In 2004 it was no longer compulsory for secondary school pupils to have to study a foreign language at GCSE level.\n"}
{"id": "3651670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3651670", "title": "Lauri Peters", "text": "Lauri Peters\n\nLauri Peters (born Patricia Peterson; July 2, 1943) is an American actress, dancer, singer, drama teacher and author.\n\nPeters created the role of Liesl Von Trapp in the original 1959 Broadway production of \"The Sound of Music\". She received a Tony Award nomination for Best Supporting or Featured Actress in a Musical, which she shared with her sibling castmates. She was married to actor Jon Voight (1962–67), whom she met when he joined the cast as Nazi messenger boy Rolfe, with whom Liesl has a song (\"Sixteen Going on Seventeen\") and a mutual attraction. She can be heard on the show's cast album, which has sold more than three million copies in the US.\n\nIn Britain, she is probably best known as Cliff Richard's romantic lead in the 1963 film \"Summer Holiday\". On film, she also acted alongside Fabian, James Stewart and Sidney Poitier.\n\nShe also appeared as Moll in the revival of Marc Blitzstein's \"The Cradle Will Rock\" directed by Howard Da Silva. She appeared on popular television shows of the 1960s and '70s, including \"Gunsmoke\", but worked primarily in the theater, on and off Broadway, and in touring companies.\n\nWith acting teacher Sanford Meisner, Peters founded the Meisner Extension at NYU in 1993, where she was Artistic Director and Master Teacher. Teaching the technique away from Manhattan, she has written a book on Meisner.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1073306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1073306", "title": "Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013", "text": "Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013\n\nThe Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013 (previously referred to as the \"Integrated action programme in the field of lifelong learning\" or the \"Integrated programme\") is the European Union programme for education and training.\n\nThe Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013 was established by \"Decision No.1720/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2006\". It is the single financial instrument available to the Commission for its directly managed education and training policies during the period covered by the European Union's current financial perspective. The Programme continues the main actions launched under previous action programmes (in particular, it brings together the various actions financed under the Socrates programme and the Leonardo da Vinci programme). It has six sub-programmes:\n\n\nThe Programme's objectives are first, to support the development of quality lifelong learning (a reference to the first paragraphs of Articles 149 and 150 of the Treaty of Rome, which establish the European Union's duties in education and training in those terms); and thereafter to help member states of the European Union develop their own education and training systems. Although the objectives are expressed in somewhat abstract terms, they are underpinned by actions which concentrate on the creation of links between people, institutions and countries in education and training – what the programme describes as the \"European Dimension\" of education and training.\n\nThe programme supports exchanges and connections between people, institutions and countries within the European Union and the European Economic Area.\n\nThese include (for example):\n\n\nThese include (for example):\n\n\nThese include (for example):\n\n\nThe management of the programme is very largely decentralised to a network of \"national agencies\", nominated by the participating countries. All individual mobility schemes and partnerships, and many multilateral projects, will be funded through these agencies. A limited number of projects will be handled centrally either by the European Commission itself or through its Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency – a public agency funded by the Commission and operating on its behalf.\n\nThe Programme has an indicative total budget of €6.970 billion over the seven years 2007–2013. Minimum seven-year allocations for each of the four bigger programmes are laid down as follows:\n\n\nThe remaining budget is to be spent on other actions and administrative costs. Experience of previous programmes suggests that the final seven-year budget will slightly exceed the current estimate\n\n"}
{"id": "28809971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28809971", "title": "List of Clarion South Writers Workshop Instructors", "text": "List of Clarion South Writers Workshop Instructors\n\nThis is a list of instructors in the Clarion South Writers Workshop, an annual writers' workshop for science fiction, fantasy, and speculative literature writers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53716388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53716388", "title": "List of universities in Niue", "text": "List of universities in Niue\n\nThis is a list of universities in Niue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45672906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45672906", "title": "Mathematical Pie", "text": "Mathematical Pie\n\nMathematical Pie is a British eight-page magazine published three times a year, and is aimed at mathematics students aged 10 to 14. It contains mathematical facts, puzzles, and challenges intended to aid teaching. It is published by the Mathematical Association, based in Leicester, and the current editor is Wil Ransome.\n\nThe magazine was created in 1950 by Roland Collins. From May 1956 to May 1967, the publication carried the first 10,022 digits of decimal expansion of pi across the bottom of each page of successive issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "32436139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32436139", "title": "Milburn Schools", "text": "Milburn Schools\n\nMilburn Schools is a private school and charter school operator headquartered in Lake Ridge, Prince William County, Virginia, United States, near Woodbridge.\n\nThe Milburn education management organization was absorbed into NonPublic Educational Services, which was acquired by Catapult Learning in 2012. The Texas schools appear to have been taken over by the local public school districts. There are two Richard Milburn Academies in Florida, but no indication that they are managed from Virginia. The company continues to provide foreign language training to the United States military.\n\nIn 2015, Richard Milburn schools enrolled 1,387 students.\n\nRichard Milburn High School (Private schools)\n\nRichard Milburn Academy (Charter schools)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4574764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4574764", "title": "National Folk Museum of Korea", "text": "National Folk Museum of Korea\n\nNational Folk Museum of Korea is a national museum of South Korea, located within the grounds of the Gyeongbokgung Palace in Jongno-gu, Seoul, and uses replicas of historical objects to illustrate the history of traditional life of the Korean people.\n\nThe museum was established on 8 November 1945 by the U.S. Government and opened on 25 April 1946 at the City Administration Memorial Hall. When the museum was merged with National Museum of Korea, its collection of 4,555 artifacts was moved to the latter's Mt Namsan site. In 1975, when the National Museum moved onto the grounds of Gyeongbokgung Palace, it moved along with it into the Modern Art Museum Building. In 1993 it opened in its present site, which was the former site of the National Museum of Korea. The building's design is based on various historical buildings around South Korea.\n\nThe museum has three main exhibition halls, with over 98,000 artifacts: History of Korean People features materials of everyday life in Korea from prehistoric times to the end of the Joseon Dynasty in 1910; Korean Way of Life, which illustrates Korean villagers in ancient times; and Life Cycle of the Koreans, which depicts the deep roots of Confucianism in Korean culture and how this ideology gave rise to most of the culture's customs.\n\nThe museum also features open-air exhibits, such as replicas of spirit posts where villagers used to pray, stone piles for worship, grinding mills, rice storage shelters and pits for kimchi pots.\n"}
{"id": "1835434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1835434", "title": "National Information Standards Organization", "text": "National Information Standards Organization\n\nThe National Information Standards Organization (NISO) is a United States non-profit standards organization that develops, maintains and publishes technical standards related to publishing, bibliographic and library applications. It was founded in 1939, incorporated as a not-for-profit education association in 1983, and assumed its current name in 1984.\n\nNISO offers two membership categories, \"voting members\" and \"library standards alliance\". In January 2016, the \"voting members\" included 77 large corporations, mostly publishers, and large library organizations such as the American Library Association. Voting members elect Directors and comment and vote on standards. The \"Library Standards Alliance\" included 135 members, primarily university and large public libraries. Library members receive free access to NISO webinars.\n\nTodd Carpenter was appointed Executive Director of NISO in 2006.\n\nNISO is accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and is designated by ANSI to represent U.S. interests to the International Organization for Standardization's Technical Committee 46 (Information and Documentation). In 2008, NISO was appointed Secretariat on behalf of ANSI for the TC 46 Subcommittee 9 (TC 46/SC 9) - Identification and Description.\n\nNISO approved standards are published by ANSI. Unlike most other ANSI standards, all of NISO standards and best practices are freely available from its web site.\n\nDesignations (names) of NISO standards all start with \"ANSI/NISO Z39.\" (read zee or zed thirty nine dot).\n\nExamples of NISO standards include:\n\nIn addition to formal standards, NISO also publishes recommended practices, technical reports and other consensus documents, and offers continuing education for librarians and information professionals. \"Information Standards Quarterly\" (\"ISQ\"), NISO's magazine, has been available online as open access since 2011.\n"}
{"id": "49303602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49303602", "title": "Pear Deck", "text": "Pear Deck\n\nPear Deck is an educational technology company offering a web-based application to K-12 schools and teachers. Pear Deck was founded in 2014 in Iowa City, IA. In December 2014, Peck Deck raised $500,000 in seed funding. That same year, the company was awarded the “New Startup of the Year” award at the Silicon Prairie Awards. \n\nIn 2015, Pear Deck was selected as the winner of the \"Rise of Rest\" competition by Steve Case. It was also selected as a \"Top Ten S'Cool Tool\" by EdSurge. Pear Deck was also a winner of the Village Capital: EdTech 2015 program.\n\nIn 2016, Pear Deck expanded its sales team to Kansas city.\n"}
{"id": "46860646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46860646", "title": "Rosa Gill", "text": "Rosa Gill\n\nRosa U. Gill (born June 5, 1943) is a Democratic member of the North Carolina General Assembly. She represents the 33rd district. Gill is an African-American.\n"}
{"id": "5024451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5024451", "title": "Sally Ride Science", "text": "Sally Ride Science\n\nSally Ride Science at UC San Diego is a nonprofit run by the University of California, San Diego. It was founded as a company in 2001 by Sally Ride, America's first woman in space, along with Tam O'Shaughnessy, Karen Flammer, Terry McEntee, and Alann Lopes to inspire young people in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) and to promote STEM literacy. Sally Ride Science was relaunched at UC San Diego on October 1, 2015. It is based at UC San Diego Extension, and its programs are coordinated jointly by UC San Diego Extension, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and San Diego Supercomputer Center. O'Shaughnessy is executive director and Flammer is director of education for Sally Ride Science at UC San Diego.\n\nSally Ride Science at UC San Diego focuses on professional development for teachers; K-12 STEM + Arts (STEAM) education, including courses, lectures, and camps; and online programs through UCTV. The goal is to help educators build students’ STEM literacy and make connections between what students are learning and the STEM fields that are expected to experience rapid job growth in the coming decades. The nonprofit will create new programs and make use of existing Sally Ride Science programs.\n\nExisting programs include \"Cool Careers in STEM\", which provides professional development for teachers and classroom resources (student books, teacher guides, and a STEM Career Connections Teacher Activity Guide) to awaken students’ interest in STEM topics and careers. Research shows that learning about STEM careers and the diverse people working in these fields inspires students and makes the study of science, technology, engineering, and math more meaningful to them.\n\nAnother major existing program is \"Key Concepts in Science\". This integrated standards-based program provides professional development for educators on how to teach science using the 5E instructional model, along with classroom resources (student books, hands-on investigations, teacher guides, and assessments) that educators can use to build students’ STEM literacy and college and career readiness. The program reflects research showing that teaching fewer science concepts in greater depth gives students a solid foundation to develop STEM literacy.\n\nBefore its acquisition by UC San Diego, Sally Ride Science implemented a variety of STEM-related educational initiatives. The company:\n"}
{"id": "32899637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32899637", "title": "Salwa El-Deghali", "text": "Salwa El-Deghali\n\nSalwa Fawzi El-Deghali () is a Libyan academic and a member of the National Transitional Council representing women and in charge of legal affairs. El-Deghali possess a Doctor of Philosophy in constitutional law. She taught at the Academy of Graduate Studies in Benghazi.\n\nEl-Deghali is one of three women on the National Transitional Council, though she is the only one who has been publicly identified. El-Deghali represents women's interests and also is responsible for Legal Affairs; she heads the Legal Advisory Committee as part of this role. She has warned against the possibility of a pro-Gaddafi fifth column within the National Liberation Army. Her position also gives her the responsibility of investigating the crimes of mercenaries employed by Muammar Gaddafi and collecting and presenting evidence of his war crimes to the International Criminal Court. Her primary responsibility will be to help form a functioning government, writing laws to be in effect during the transition period, and preparing for elections. However, she has stated that the job of writing a constitution for the country will fall to an elected assembly and not her Legal Advisory Committee.\n"}
{"id": "7733432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7733432", "title": "St. James Academy", "text": "St. James Academy\n\nSt. James Academy is the newest Catholic high school in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Kansas City in Kansas. Located in Lenexa, Kansas, it is the city's first and only Catholic high school. St. James Academy is currently in its twelfth academic year of existence. It is located directly off Prairie Star Parkway and K7. The school was established in 2005 by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Kansas City in Kansas and was named after St. James the Greater. The campus was named after Archbishop Emeritus James Patrick Keleher. The school colors are navy, crimson, and silver. St. James Academy has an average annual enrollment of around 900 students.\n\nSt. James Academy offers a variety of sports for the students. They are classified as a 5A school, according to KSHSAA.\n\nA list of sports offered at St. James are listed below:\n\nFall Sports\nWinter Sports\nSpring Sports\n"}
{"id": "20501436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20501436", "title": "Suicide of Megan Meier", "text": "Suicide of Megan Meier\n\nMegan Taylor Meier (November 6, 1992 – October 17, 2006) was an American teenager who died by suicide by hanging herself three weeks before her 14th birthday. A year later, Meier's parents prompted an investigation into the matter and her suicide was attributed to cyberbullying through the social networking website MySpace. Lori Drew, the mother of a friend of Meier, was indicted on the matter in 2008, but was acquitted in the 2009 case \"United States v. Drew\".\n\nMegan Taylor Meier was born on November 6, 1992, to Christina \"Tina\" Meier and Ronald \"Ron\" Meier in O'Fallon, Missouri, a northern St. Louis suburb. During Megan's childhood she lived in the nearby Dardenne Prairie. She had a younger sister.\n\nFrom the third grade, after she had told her mother she had wanted to kill herself, Megan had been under the care of a psychiatrist. She had been prescribed citalopram (an antidepressant that has a possible side effect of increasing suicide risk in young people), methylphenidate, and the atypical antipsychotic ziprasidone. She had been diagnosed with attention deficit disorder and depression, and had self-esteem issues regarding her weight. She was described by her parents as a \"bubbly, goofy\" girl who enjoyed spending time with her friends and family.\n\nMeier attended Fort Zumwalt public schools, including Pheasant Point Elementary School and Fort Zumwalt West Middle School in nearby O'Fallon, Missouri. \nMegan befriended the popular girls so that the boys who picked on her would stop. The girls soon turned on Megan and the bullying got even worse than before. For eighth grade, her parents enrolled her at Immaculate Conception Catholic School in Dardenne Prairie. \n\nSoon after opening an account on MySpace, Meier received a message supposedly from a 16-year-old boy, Josh Evans. Meier and \"Josh\" became online friends, but never met in person or spoke. Meier thought \"Josh\" was attractive. As Meier began to exchange messages with this person, her family said she seemed to have had her \"spirits lifted\". This person claimed to have moved to the nearby city of O'Fallon, was homeschooled and did not yet have a phone number.\n\nA 16-year-old male named \"Josh Evans\" was registered on the account used for bullying messages to Meier. But Lori Drew, the mother of Sarah Drew, a former friend of Meier, later admitted creating the MySpace account. At the time of the suicide, the Drew and Meier families were neighbors, living four doors apart.\n\nLori Drew was aided by Sarah and by Ashley Grills, an 18-year-old employee of Lori. Lori and several others ran the hoaxed account. Witnesses testified that the women intended to use Meier's messages sent to \"Josh\" to get information about her and later humiliate her, in retribution for her allegedly spreading gossip about Drew's daughter.\n\nOn October 16, 2006, the tone of the messages changed. After Megan got home from school, Tina Meier signed onto MySpace for Megan. She was in a hurry because she had to take her younger daughter, Allison, to the orthodontist. Before she could get to the door, Megan was upset. \"Josh\" sent troubling messages to Megan, including one that said: \"I don't know if I want to be friends with you anymore because I've heard that you are not very nice to your friends.\" More messages of this type were sent, some of Megan's messages were shared with others, and bulletins were posted about her. Tina told her daughter to sign off, and went to the orthodontist. She called her daughter to ask her if she signed off, and she didn't. Megan was sobbing hysterically. When her mother got home, she was furious that she hadn't signed off. She was shocked at the vulgar language her daughter was firing back. Megan then told her mother, \"You're supposed to be my mom! You're supposed to be on my side!\" and then left from the computer and went upstairs. According to her father Ron Meier and a neighbor who had discussed the hoax with Drew, the last message sent by \"Josh\" read: \"Everybody in O'Fallon knows who you are. You are a bad person and everybody hates you. Have a shitty rest of your life. The world would be a better place without you\".\n\nMegan responded saying, \"You're the kind of boy a girl would kill herself over.\" The last few exchanges were made via AOL Instant Messenger instead of MySpace. When she ran upstairs, she ran into her father. She told him about the trouble and went to her room. Ron went downstairs to the kitchen where he and Tina talked about the cyberbullying and made dinner. Twenty minutes later, Tina suddenly froze in mid-sentence, and ran up to Megan's room. Megan Meier had hanged herself with a belt in the bedroom closet. Despite attempts to revive her, Megan was pronounced dead the next day on October 17, three weeks before her 14th birthday.\n\nSeveral weeks after her death, Megan Meier's parents were told that the mother of one of their daughter's friends—with whom Meier had a falling out—had created the \"Josh Evans\" account. The parent, Lori Drew, who created the fake account, admitted that she and her daughter had the password to the account, and characterized the hoax to a reporter as a \"joke\". Initially, Drew denied knowing about the offensive messages that were sent to Meier. She told the police that the account was aimed at \"gaining Megan's confidence and finding out what Megan felt about her daughter and other people\". The neighborhood mother who had told the Meiers that Drew had the hoax account said \"Lori laughed about it\", and said she had intended to \"mess with Megan\".\n\nWhile Drew's name was excluded from most early news stories, CNN disclosed her name through the inclusion of the police report in its broadcast of the story; it was featured on many blogs.\n\nIt was more than a year between Meier's suicide and the first media report of the Internet hoax. The FBI was investigating the matter and had asked the Meier family to refrain from speaking publicly about it to keep the Drews from learning about their investigation. Shortly after the first anniversary of Meier's death, her aunt, Vicki Dunn, saw an article written by Steve Pokin of the \"Suburban Journals\" about Internet harassment. She contacted Pokin to share Meier's story with him. Once the story broke, it quickly spread to national and international news outlets.\n\nAt a press conference on December 3, 2007, Jack Banas, the prosecuting attorney of St. Charles County, said that Lori Drew's 18-year-old temporary employee, Ashley Grills, wrote most of the messages addressed to Meier and that she wrote the final \"Josh Evans\" message addressed to Meier. Grills said she wrote the final message to end the Myspace hoax and get Meier to stop communicating with \"Josh Evans\". Banas stated that he did not interview Grills because, at the time, she was under psychiatric treatment for her participation in the Meier case. He did not plan to interview her at a later date.\n\nThe Meiers criticized the prosecutor's statements, saying that Banas did not interview any party other than the Drews and that Banas was solely relying on the testimony of the Drews. Banas said that the original FBI investigation into the matter, during which Grills was interviewed, established her role in the event. The Meiers have said they do not hold Grills responsible for Megan's death. Banas said Sarah Drew, by then 15, was attending a different school and not living in Dardenne Prairie. He said Lori Drew was fearful of telling him where her daughter lives. According to Lori Drew's attorney, she had to close her advertising business in the wake of publicity about her role in the Internet account and messages. Neighbors shunned the Drews following the revelations.\n\nInternet webloggers posted photographs, telephone numbers, e-mail details, and addresses of the Drews and the employee on various websites. Businesses that advertised in Drew's coupon book business were also shunned. Sarah Wells, a weblogger who revealed the given and family names of Lori Drew, said, \"I don't regret naming Drew.\" After reviewing the case, county prosecutors decided not to file any criminal charges in relation to the hoax.\n\nLori Drew was indicted and convicted by a jury of violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act in 2008 over the matter. Her conviction was vacated by a federal judge on a post-trial verdict, on grounds that the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act did not intend to criminalize the conduct of which Drew was accused. The government chose not to appeal this post-trial ruling. \n\nWhen Megan Meier's story was first reported in the \"St. Charles Journal\", readers were concerned about the unnamed adults implicated in the hoax. Later, the focus was on the decision by the St. Louis \"Suburban Journals\"' decision not to print the names of the Drews. In an interview, the reporter said that names had been withheld to protect the minor child in the family. Webloggers learned and reported the names of Lori and Gary Drew, after they found the latter in minutes. Media eventually revealed Lori Drew's name and published her photograph.\n\nBanas said he was aware of the national outrage against the Drews, which originated on the Internet in response to the Steve Pokin article in the \"O'Fallon Journal\". The Drews have had their home and work addresses, phone and cell phone numbers, and aerial photos of their home posted on the Internet. The Drews' property had also been vandalized. Banas said some of these actions against the Drews could constitute Internet stalking.\n\n\"Because we can't prosecute somebody it certainly does not justify violating the law,\" Banas said. \"We live in this country by the rule of the law.\" He described Lori Drew as \"upset, cautious and guarded\" when he interviewed her. Banas said that Mrs. Drew felt \"terrible\" about Meier's death. A vigil was held for Megan Meier on November 24, 2007. The crowd gathered in a nearby parking lot and walked past the homes of the Meiers and the Drews. A small piece of ground adjacent to the Drews' house was the scene of remembrances by friends of the Meiers.\n\nThe case has caused several jurisdictions to enact or to consider legislation prohibiting harassment over the Internet. The Board of Aldermen for the City of Dardenne Prairie passed an ordinance on November 22, 2007, in response to the incident. The ordinance prohibits any harassment that utilizes an electronic medium, including the Internet, text messaging services, pagers, and similar devices. Violations of the ordinance are treated as misdemeanors, with fines of up to $500 and up to 90 days imprisonment. The city of Florissant, Missouri also passed a \"Cyber Harassment\" law, with other municipalities, counties, and states considering following suit. The state of Missouri is to revise its harassment laws in response to the case, updating them to cover harassment through computers and mobile phone messaging, and creating a new crime to cover adults 21 and over harassing children under the age of 18.\n\nThe new legislation went into effect on August 28, 2008, and was intended to cover loopholes in the current law. According to the \"St. Louis Daily Record\", the \"new language expands the definition of the crime of 'harassment' to include knowingly intimidating or causing emotional distress anonymously, either by phone or electronically, or causing distress to a child.\" It also \"increases the penalty for harassment from a misdemeanor to a felony, carrying up to four years in prison, if it’s committed by an adult against someone 17 or younger, or if the criminal has previously been convicted of harassment.\" This is one of the first comprehensive cyberbullying and cyberstalking state laws that protects children and adults from harassment on social networking sites. The bill is a reaction to Lori Drew's case dismissal and Governor Matt Blunt, the politician who signed the law into effect states, \"[Missouri] needs tough laws to protect its children.\" A bill was introduced in the 111th Congress on April 2, 2009 as H.R. 1966. Both houses of the Missouri State Legislature voted unanimously on May 15, 2008 to criminalize usage of the internet to harass someone, the existing statute was expanded to prohibit abusive \"communication by any means...\" and is known as \"Megan's Law.\" (not to be confused with New Jersey's and subsequent federal Megan's Law). On May 22, 2008, Congresswoman Linda T. Sanchez introduced H.R. 6123 as the \"Megan Meier Cyberbullying Prevention Act\" to \"amend title 18, United States Code, with respect to cyberbullying.\"\n\nTina Meier started the Megan Meier Foundation, headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri. The organization states that it exists to promote \"awareness, education and promote positive change to children, parents and educators in response to the ongoing bullying and cyberbullying in our children’s daily environment.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12999282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12999282", "title": "The National Museum of Computing", "text": "The National Museum of Computing\n\nThe National Museum of Computing is a museum in the United Kingdom dedicated to collecting and restoring historic computer systems. The museum is based in rented premises at Bletchley Park in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire and opened in 2007. The building — \"Block H\" — was the first purpose-built computer centre in the world, hosting six Colossus computers by the end of World War II.\n\nThe museum houses a rebuilt Mark 2 Colossus computer alongside an exhibition of the most complex code cracking activities performed at the Park, along with examples of machines continuing the history of the development of computing from the 1940s to the present day. The museum has a policy of having as many of the exhibits as possible in full working order.\n\nAlthough located on the Bletchley Park 'campus', The National Museum of Computing is an entirely separate charity with its own fund raising and separate entrance/ticketing. TNMOC receives no public funding and relies on the generosity of donors and supporters. \n\nThe museum is working with four other organisations, in a group called Qufaro, to create the \nNational College of Cyber Security for students between 16 and 19 years of age. To open in 2018, the school will be located in Block G which was being renovated in 2017, funded by the Bletchley Park Science and Innovation Centre. (Bletchley Park Trust has no involvement with the college.) \n\nOn display in the museum are many famous early computing era machines, including a functioning Colossus Mark 2 that was rebuilt between 1993 and 2008 by a team of volunteers led by Tony Sale. Colossus was a machine that helped break German encryption during World War II. \n\nThe museum also includes the world's oldest working digital computer (the Harwell Dekatron / WITCH), machines from the 1960s such as the Marconi Transistorised Automatic Computer (T.A.C.), Elliott 803 and 905, an ICL 2966 mainframe from the 1980s, a wide range of analogue computers, a hands-on retrocomputing gallery, and several restoration projects such as the PDP-8 and the PDP-11-based air traffic control system from London Terminal Control Centre at West Drayton near London. Further exhibits include mechanical and electronic calculators, a history of slide rules, a pair of Cray supercomputers, and a personal computing gallery with ten hands-on machines. Visitors can also see a re-build of the Cambridge University EDSAC computer that is underway (still in progress as of September 2017.)\n\nThere is also a suite which includes many BBC Micro personal computers which are used to encourage programming among visitors, an area dedicated to women in computer science, and a hands on display of video game consoles from different eras. All of this is alongside various other displays of devices and information regarding the evolution of computing from the 60s to the modern era.\n\nAt the end of 2009, an Internet gallery, sponsored by the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) where packet switching was first developed, was opened.\n\nAnother area includes a range of mechanical and electro-mechanical punched card machines, exhibiting how computation was achieved prior to the digital computer.\n\nThe museum also features a cafe/gift shop.\n\nThe Colossus and Tunny Galleriesare open daily.\n\nDemonstrations and talks usually occur on the hour when the galleries are open, with slight deviation depending on the number of visitors.\n\nThe rest of the museum is open to the public every Thursday, Saturday and Sunday afternoons and most bank holidays, and by appointment for groups only at other times. There are guided tours on Tuesday afternoons, Thursday mornings and other times. There is a modest admission charge to the museum to help cover overheads (including rent).\n\nTNMOC depends for funding entirely on voluntary and corporate donations and modest admission charges. Fundraising continues and donors have included Bletchley Park Capital Partners, Fujitsu, Google UK, CreateOnline, Ceravision, Insight software, PGP Corporation, IBM, NPL, HP Labs, British Computer Society (BCS), Black Marble, and the School of Computer Science at the University of Hertfordshire.\n\nThe museum conducted a crowdfunding campaign in March 2018 to raise funds to build a new gallery for the Turing-Welchman Bombe. The campaign raised over £43,000 via crowd-funding and an additional £20,000 via direct donations.\n\nThe museum is managed by the Codes and Ciphers Heritage Trust, a registered charity, with employed and volunteer staff. The title \"The National Museum of Computing\" is an operating name.\n\n"}
{"id": "4792747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4792747", "title": "University of Agriculture Faisalabad", "text": "University of Agriculture Faisalabad\n\nThe University of Agriculture (\"UAF\") is a public research university in Faisalabad, Pakistan. It is ranked 4th in Pakistan and 1st in the field of Agriculture and Veterinary Sciences by HEC Ranking 2015. It was also ranked among top 800 world universities by QS World University Rankings in 2015,2017. The employability ranking by Pakistan made this institution highly reputable. The university came among top 5 institutions of Pakistan in research power.\n\nThe University of Agriculture, Faisalabad (), (formally: \"Punjab Agricultural College and Research Institute\"), is a university in the city of Faisalabad, Punjab, Pakistan. It was established in 1906 as the first major institution of higher agricultural education in the undivided Punjab.\n\nAt independence in 1947, Pakistan was a predominantly agricultural country. In spite of subsequent industrialization and development, agriculture remains central to its economy. After independence, the Government of Pakistan appointed the National Commissions on Food and Education to reform the existing agrarian system and to formulate measures for developing better agricultural potential. The commissions made a plea for the establishment of an agricultural university for research and education. It was established by upgrading the former Punjab Agricultural College and Research Institute in 1961. It was the first university built by the British Empire in 1906 with the foundation stone laying ceremony by Sir Louis Dane, the then Lieutenant and Governor of the Punjab.\n\nThe 1,950-acre campus represents both history and the present era. The new campus is lush green with a conglomeration of monolithic blocks built in modern style. The old campus is reminiscent of traditional Muslim architecture. The main campus is situated in the centre of the city (12 km northeast of the Faisalabad International Airport), about 2 km away from city centre/ clock tower.\n\nUAF owns and operates major cultural assets such as the Zoology Museum, UAF Art Gallery, University Library \n\nThe university's faculty employs more than 800 teachers. The university has boys and girls hostels. It accommodates over 5,000 students and approximately 3,000 day scholars. Premier hostels are Jinnah Hostel (named after the founder of Pakistan Muhammad Ali Jinnah), Iqbal Hall, Fatima Jinnah Hostel and Haley Hall.\n\nUAF is organised into faculties of Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering and Technology, Food Nutrition and Home Economics, Social sciences, Animal Husbandry, Food Sciences, Biotechnology, Biochemistry, Plant and Animal Breeding, Veterinary Science, Doctor of Pharmacy, Mathematics, Statistics and Sciences. A community college is on the main campus in Faisalabad. The College of Veterinary Sciences at Lahore was affiliated and is now a distinct entity known as the University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Lahore (UVAS).\n\nThese units offer programmes leading to bachelor's, master's, and doctorate degrees in agriculture and allied fields. HEC ranks the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad as the best in the agriculture/veterinary field in Pakistan. The University of Agriculture Faisalabad ranked number 4 among the top 10 universities in Pakistan.\n\nThe Faculty of Agriculture comprises\n\n\nA building (CAS) is constructed with the collaboration of USA for food security and research purposes.\n\nThe faculty includes the departments of Structural and Environmental Engineering, Irrigation and Drainage, Food Engineering, Farm Machinery, and Power and Fibre Technology. Courses of study lead to the degrees of Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Engineering, Food Engineering, Textile Technology,; M.Sc. in Food Technology, Fibre Technology, Agricultural Engineering; and Doctor of Philosophy in Food Technology and Agricultural Engineering.\nThe Food Engineering Department has the highest merit since 2013 & leading in the country with phenomenal and creative engineers.\n\nDepartment of Agricultural Engineering & Technology was established in 1961 when the Punjab Agriculture College, Lyallpur was given the status of University of Agriculture, Lyallpur. The main objective of the faculty was to train manpower to cater to the growing needs of mechanized farming in the province of Punjab, Pakistan. This is one of the pioneer faculties in the field of agriculture in Pakistan.\n\nThe department is one of the prime departments of the Faculty of Agricultural Engineering and Technology.\n\nThis department, in collaboration with other departments, offers a baccalaureate program in Agri. Engineering.\n\nThe department provides facilities like updated research laboratories, lecture rooms for undergraduate and postgraduate students, and computer laboratory. A wide range of state-of-the-art equipment has been provided to facilitate high tech research work.\n\nThe department of Fibre Technology was established in the Faculty of Agriculture Engineering & Technology in 1964. It is the sole department in the country which offers a master's degree programme in Fibre Technology. The main objective of this department is to impart scientific knowledge and technological training to the students in the field of Fibre science, Textile Technology (spinning, knitting, dyeing, finishing, testing & quality control), pulp, paper and cardboard technology to meet the demand of the fast growing industry.\n\nThe faculty includes the department of Anatomy, Institute of Pharmacy Physiology and Pharmacology, Pathology, Parasitology, Microbiology, Clinical Medicine and Surgery, and Theriogenology. Candidates who hold degrees in biological sciences are considered for graduate admission in non-clinical subjects. The students are enrolled for the degree of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M.), Pharm. D, M.Phil and Ph.D. degrees. Prof Dr. Ahrar Khan is Dean.\n\nThe Faculty of Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology, established in 1963, with its constituent departments of Agricultural Economics, Farm Management, Agricultural Marketing, Cooperation and Credit and Rural Sociology, has now been functioning for over 51 years in the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad. It has endeavored to keep abreast with requirements in terms of academic programmes/activities over these years. However, looking at the likely shape of agricultural development, the direction and quality of research and the make-up of trained manpower output in the discipline of agricultural social sciences, the future trends need to be looked into seriously so as to be able to meet the challenges of the 21st century.\n\nA perusal of the functioning of the constituent departments of the faculty showed that over the years the programmes of some of the departments had become less demanding in academic and research output in line with the present day requirements. Especially under WTO set up, where there has been a shift from subsistence agriculture to commercial agriculture putting further pressure to shift the emphasis to resource management strategy. Therefore, there was a strong need for a meaningful restructuring and fine tuning of the faculty to meet the challenges of the emerging requirements of the economy in the coming years.\n\nKeeping in view this need of time, the Faculty was restructured in 2012. The name of faculty was changed to Faculty of Social Sciences. The departments of Agricultural Economics, Development Economics, and Environmental & Resource Economics were merged into a new institute, Institute of Agricultural & Resource Economics (IARE). Professor Dr. Muhammad Ashfaq is the first director of IARE, having served from June 2012.\n\nInstitute of Agricultural and Resource Economics now offers degree programs serving the needs of society:\n\nThe Faculty of Social Sciences is divided in following institutes:\n\n\nProfessor Dr Muhammad Iqbal Zafar is dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences.\n\nThis includes the Department of Arts, Languages and Cultures, Art History, Classics and Ancient History, Linguistics, Religions and Theology and the University Language Centre.\n\nThe faculty includes the Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics, the Department of Livestock Management, the Department of Animal Nutrition and the Department of Poultry Science. It offers the degree of B.Sc. (Hons.) Animal Husbandry and supporting courses for students of D.V.M. and B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture. It provides research facilities concerning livestock, poultry and their products to departments in the university and it provides advisory services to livestock and poultry farmers. Postgraduate courses leading to M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees are offered by all four departments in the faculty. Prof. Dr. Sajjad Ahmad Khan is the dean.\n\nThe faculty includes the departments of Botany, Zoology and Fisheries, Chemistry and Biochemistry, Physics, Mathematics and Statistics, Business Management Sciences, Computer Science, Social Sciences and Humanities, and Islamic Studies. It offers undergraduate courses in physical, biological and social sciences and postgraduate degree programmes in Botany, Zoology and Fisheries, Chemistry, Bio-Chemistry, Physics, Statistics, Computer Science, Business Management and Commerce. Graduates of pure sciences from other institutions are eligible for admission to courses leading to M.Sc., M.Phil. and Ph.D. degrees. Graduates having a relevant bachelor's degree may also seek admission to MBA and M.Com. degree programmes. Prof. Dr. Munir Ahmad Sheikh is the Dean of the faculty.\n\nThe Division of Education & Extension's larger part has been shifted to the Faculty of Social Sciences. Prof. Dr. Tanvir Ali (ex-director, Graduate Studies / ex-director, Division of Education and Extension) is now the director of the Institute of Agricultural Extension and Rural Development, Faculty of Social Sciences. The institute deals with disciplines like Agricultural Extension, Agricultural Education, Agricultural Information (Mass Communication), Rural Sociology, Population Science, Gender Studies, and Rural Development.\n\nIt offers undergraduate and graduate degree programs like B.Sc. (Hons) Agriculture (Agri. Extension Major); M.Sc., M.Sc.(Hons), and PhD. A quarterly agricultural journal is published for farmers. On August 14, 2012, the institute started FM Radio 100.4 for dissemination of agricultural innovations among adjoining farm communities in addition to providing information, education, and entertainment to the general public.\n\nThe University of Agriculture Faisalabad is a major centre for research. It receives billions for research and development. It contributed very much to the community by introducing the modern techniques in agriculture. The university has two advanced scientific labs for research purposes, where university scientists do experiments. UAF has produced many scientists who are serving the world.\n\nThis is the university's academic publishing house. It publishes academic monographs, textbooks and journals, most of which are from university students and staff authors.\n\nThe university has huge hostels to accommodate a large number of students. The lush green environment provides aesthetic view to the campus. There are many sports courts, stadium, swimming pool, shooting arena, horse riding, and auditoriums for students.\n\nThe university has clubs and societies, i.e., Arts club, Media club, Dramatic club, Virsa (music) club, Debating club, UAF Model United Nations, and Agrarian society.\nA sub-campus of University of Agriculture Faisalabad was established in Burewala District Vehari, to spread the agriculture research all across the country, especially in southern area of Punjab.\n\nA sub-campus of the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad was established in Toba Tek Singh on June 5, 2005 to study the poultry industry. B.Sc Poultry Science (4 year degree program) is offered at this campus. Special efforts for establishing this sub-campus were made by Prof. Dr. Bashir Ahmed (Ex- Vice Chancellor) and Chaudhry Muhammad Ashfaq (Ex- district Nazim).\n\nThe following degree courses are offered:\n\nThis program was started in 2009. F.Sc. (Pre-Agriculture) 2-year program at UAF Community College in PARS Campus, Jhang Road, near Faisalabad International Airport. After this 2 year degree, students can take admission in any degree program offered by University of Agriculture Faisalabad.\n\nStudents are selected from all across Punjab district wise.\n\n\n\nAn evening college has been started in the university where M.B.A. (Regular and Executive), M.Com. and M.Sc. Chemistry, Bio-Chemistry, Botany, Zoology, Physics, Fibre Technology, Home Economics (Food and Nutrition), Statistics and Computer Science is offered. The other programs like M.A. Economics, and M.A. Sociology have been stopped after few years of good experience.\n\nThe university under the short courses program organises training facilities in agriculture and allied disciplines for in-service, pre-service and self-employed personnel, farmers, and others interested in agriculture. Separate courses are provided for ladies on the subjects and skills peculiar to womenfolk. The division has developed 124 courses leading to diplomas and certificates. Most of these courses have a practical bias.\n\nThe following diploma courses are offered:\n\n"}
{"id": "1512486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1512486", "title": "University of Technology, Mauritius", "text": "University of Technology, Mauritius\n\nThe University of Technology, Mauritius (UTM) is a public research university in Mauritius. The main campus lies in La Tour Koenig, Pointe-aux-Sables, within the district of Moka. It was founded following the government of Mauritius approval of the setting up of the University of Technology, Mauritius in January 2000 and the proclamation of The University of Technology, Mauritius Act on 21 June 2000.\n\nUTM is a member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities and is listed in the Commonwealth Universities Handbook and in the International Handbook of Universities. UTM is a member of the Southern African Regional Universities Association (SARUA) - a network of public universities in the SADC region.\n\n The setting up of the university began with the merging of two public training institutions, the Mauritius Institute of Public Administration and Management and the State Information Training Centre into schools. The School of Business Informatics and Software Engineering, the School of Public Sector Policy and Management and the School of Sustainable Development Science became operational in September 2000. The university started a restructuring process in September 2008. The schools were respectively renamed as School of Innovative Technologies and Engineering, School of Business Management and Finance and School of Sustainable Development and Tourism.\n\nIn-company training is part of the curriculum in the tourism management programmes. It offers programmes on a part-time and distance basis as well as flexible entry and exit points. Many of the programmes are occupationally or vocationally directed, for example, banking and finance, tourism management and marketing, and software engineering.\n\nIt offers short course programmes such as a full-time course for higher executive officers for 15 weeks. In this orientation and approach it differs from traditional universities in the SADC. It is internationally recognised.\n\nCourses are run within the main campus in La Tour Koenig and its satellite centres in La Tour Koenig, Bell Village and Moka. The building of a new campus near Moka, is underway to sustain its expansion.\n\nUTM tuition fees are non-subsidised, as opposed to the University of Mauritius (UoM). A Tertiary Education Commission study revealed that the percentage of students satisfied with respect to course delivery was higher at the UTM as compared to the UoM.\n\nThe three principal degree courses are the BSc (Hons) Computer Science with Network Security, BSc (Hons) Software Engineering, Telecommunication Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and BSc (Hons) Business Information Systems.\n\nThe School of Business Management and Finance delivers education, training, research and consultancy in areas of Public Policy and Management, Public Administration, Human Resource Management, Financial Management, Business Administration, Banking and International Finance and Communication. The school has 700 students enrolled on its full-time and part-time programmes which are delivered by 70 full-time and part-time academic staff.\n\nThe School of Sustainable Development and Tourism caters for Tourism, Sustainable Development and Environmental Sciences. An MoU has also been signed with the Hotel School of Mauritius for UTM students to benefit from their facilities for practical sessions. In-company training, especially in hotels is part of the curriculum.\n\nThe School of Health Sciences was formed when Anna Medical College and Research Centre entered into an agreement with UTM for the award of MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery) programme in line with the curriculum based on that of the Medical Council of India and approved by the Academic Council of the University. The Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery programme is registered and accredited by Tertiary Education Commission, Mauritius.\n\nThe Research Degree Committee is responsible for research degrees. Staff are encouraged to pursue doctoral degrees. In 2008, there were 30 MPhil/PhD candidates on a full-time and part-time basis. The areas of research include management, tourism, applied mathematics, modelling and sustainable development.\n\nUTM has established academic partnerships with companies like Microsoft, InterSystems, SAP, Oracle Corporation and Sun Microsystems. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed with the Mauritius Information and Technology Industry Association (MITIA) and the National Computer Board (NCB) for fostering a pool of qualified ICT professionals. The university has links with the Hotel School of Mauritius and Constance Academy to deliver tourism courses and the Mauritius Institute of Education (MIE) to offer Bachelor in Education degrees.\n\nSince June 2009, the university has been affiliated with Dr D Y Patil Medical College to award postgraduate medical degrees in General medicine, Surgery, Pediatrics, Gynecology, Orthopedics, Radiology, Anesthesia, Psychiatry, Ophthalmology, Skin and VD.\n\nIn May 2017, there was a private notice question in the National Legislative Assembly. The Director General of the university was criticized for the lack of Wifi access and the dilapidated state of the university campus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11254342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11254342", "title": "Valore (company)", "text": "Valore (company)\n\nValore is an American company that provides an online textbook marketplace and open-source college textbooks that is based in Boston.\n\nValore, Inc. (formerly SimpleTuition, Inc.), is the Boston-based parent company of ValoreBooks, an online textbook marketplace, and Boundless, a provider of openly licensed digital courseware. The company was founded in 2005 with the launch of its first product, SimpleTuition, an online student loan comparison engine. The SimpleTuition product is now operated by Lending Tree. The company has launched a number of additional products including SmarterBucks, a rewards program that helps pay down any student loan. SmarterBucks was sold to Gradifi in 2015.\n\nIn 2012, to address the high cost of textbooks, the company acquired ValoreBooks — an online marketplace whose tagline claims that it saves students up to 90% on the cost of textbooks. In 2015, the company acquired Boundless, which offers affordable digital textbook replacements using openly licensed content.\n\nThe name Valore means value in Italian.\n\nValore was venture-backed, and investors included Atlas Venture, Flybridge Capital Partners and North Hill Ventures. Valore was acquired by Follett in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "17023947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17023947", "title": "Viktor Lowenfeld", "text": "Viktor Lowenfeld\n\nAustrian Viktor Lowenfeld (1903–1960) was a professor of art education at the Pennsylvania State University. His ideas influenced many art educators in post-war United States. In particular, he emphasized \"ways in which children at different stages of artistic development should be stimulated by appropriate media and themes, and...the curriculum...guided mainly by developmental considerations.\"\n\nBorn in Linz, Austria in 1903, Viktor Lowenfeld had always been drawn to the arts. Through his personal narration, Lowenfeld mentioned that he was pulling toward music at an early age – probably four or five. He started to play violin at the age of nine or ten. And because he used to play by ear, rather than reading notes, he was often called a “Gypsy.” That same year Lowenfeld started painting. This early exposure to the visual and performing arts led him to a career devoted to the practice of educating himself and the public in art.\n\nDr. Lowenfeld graduated from the College of Applied Arts in Vienna, as well as the Academy of Fine Arts in the same city. He later received his doctorate in Education from the University of Vienna, and during this time served as an elementary and secondary school teacher. While in Vienna, he also served as the director of art in the Blind Institute. In 1938 Lowenfeld fled to England before arriving in the United States. He became a citizen in 1946 after serving in the Navy as a wartime visual aids consultant.\n\nLowenfeld joined the Hampton Institute in Virginia in 1939 as assistant professor of Industrial Arts, studio art teacher, and later Chairman of the Art Department. In 1945 he was named curator of the distinguished collection of Black African Art at the Hampton Institute. Lowenfeld came to The Pennsylvania State University as professor of Art Education in 1946. Ten years later he became head of the newly founded Department of Art Education. He stayed in this position until his death in 1960.\nDr. Lowenfeld is well known for his Visual-Haptic theory in Art Education which was assimilated from Viennese sources. He always regarded good teaching as a dialogue, therefore his motivation and evaluations had a strong Expressionist bias. His psychological training enabled him to gain a therapeutic position in his early months in America, labeling him a “Viennese Psychologist” in Time. He was an active leader in the National Art Education Association and The National Committee on Art Education.\n\nAccording to Peter Smith, “Lowenfeld is still a name of power in American art education. Although his own death, and the deaths and retirements of his disciples, have lessened Lowenfeldian political in academia (and therefore in teacher education), his concepts go marching on.” Lowenfeld’s philosophy reached a large audience through the theories documented in his books: \"Genesis of Sculpturing\", 1932; \"Sculptures by the Blind\", 1934; \"The Nature of Creativity\", 1938; \"Creative and Mental Growth\", 1947; and \"Your Child and his Art\". He also published numerous articles on art education aesthetics, art for the handicapped, black art, and testing. He published more than one hundred articles. \n\nAmong his students was the American muralist John T. Biggers.\n\nLowenfeld's 1949 \"Creative and Mental Growth\" was published and became the single most influential textbook in art education. Many elementary school teacher preparation programs used this book since it described characteristics of child art. Lowenfeld believed evidence of aesthetic, social, physical, intellectual, and emotional growth is reflected in the art of children. \n\nHe further developed a theory of stages in artistic development. The stages consisted of\n\nLowenfeld's ideas of art as a catalyst of creativity have prompted many research dissertations in the field of art education.\n\nViktor Lowenfeld left behind an association of friends and followers including Edward L. Mattil who helped establish the Viktor Lowenfeld Memorial Fund. Dr. Mattil, at the time of Dr. Lowenfeld’s death, was also asked to serve as head of the Department of Art Education. The Memorial Fund was administered by a local committee composed of Elizabeth Yeager, Yar Chomicky, George Pappas, Walter C. Reid, and George S. Zoretich; and by the National Committee which included Kenneth R. Beittel, Mayo Brice, F. Louis Hoover, Edward L. Mattil, Charles M. Robertson and D. Kenneth Winebrenner. The national memorial provided moneys for research papers by eminent scholars every second year at the NAEA convention. About five such papers have been delivered. The money of the local committee was spent to purchase sculpture, trees, and plaques for a memorial garden area at Penn State College of Education. During this drive, graduated students contributed paintings, sculptures, and drawings to the Lowenfeld Memorial Collection.\n\nThe contributions are still welcomed today. The collection which amounts to more than seventy works is located within the Arts Cottage, the Chambers Building, the Cedar Building, and the Rackley Building at the University Park Campus.\n\n"}
{"id": "8629692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8629692", "title": "Walter Goffart", "text": "Walter Goffart\n\nWalter Andre Goffart (born February 22, 1934), born a Belgian, came to America in 1941, is a historian of the later Roman Empire and the early Middle Ages who specializes in research on the barbarian kingdoms of those periods. He taught for many years in the History Department and Centre for Medieval Studies of the University of Toronto (1960-1999), and is currently a senior research scholar at Yale University.\n\nA 1955 graduate of Harvard University, Goffart received his doctorate there in 1961. He is the recipient of numerous distinguished awards and fellowships and was awarded the Haskins Medal of the Medieval Academy of America in 1991 for his book \"The Narrators of Barbarian History.\"\n\nAlexander C. Murray edited a \"Festschrift\" for Goffart called \"After Rome's Fall: Narrators and Sources of Early Medieval History\" (1999).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33906444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33906444", "title": "Walter T. Foster", "text": "Walter T. Foster\n\nWalter T. Foster (1891–1981) was an American entrepreneur, artist, art instructor, writer, editor and publisher. The Walter Foster Publishing Company's line of low-cost art manuals were widely distributed to art stores, often displayed in a metal rack specially made for Foster's oversized art books. Today, Walter Foster Publishing is part of the Quayside Publishing Group, which is owned by Quarto Publishing.\n\nWhile residing in Laguna Beach, California, Foster owned and operated an advertising agency, where he worked with many local artists and illustrators. Through his friends in the art community, he discovered many artists who wanted to teach art and write books. In response, Foster started a publishing company in his home, where he wrote, illustrated, printed, bound, packaged, shipped and distributed the books himself. An artist in his own right, Foster created the company’s first title, \"How to Draw\", which sold more than one million copies and is still in print today. Foster died in 1981 at the age of 90, at which time his family took over company operations.\n\nOne of Foster's most notable artists was Preston Blair, whose book, \"Animation\", sold more than one million copies and is still in print today. Another noteworthy artist, Hal Rasmusson (\"Aggie Mack\"), wrote \"Modern Cartoon\". Roger Armstrong (\"Ella Cinders\", \"Napoleon and Uncle Elby\") was the author of \"How to Draw Comic Strips\" (1990).\n\nIn 1988, a group of investors comprising Andrew McNally IV (former president of Rand McNally), Illinois businessman Rhett Butler, attorney Paul Hegness and California businessman and former Price Waterhouse CPA Ross Sarracino purchased the Walter Foster Publishing Company. With Sarracino at the helm, the company began developing instructional drawing and painting books for children.\n\nThe popularity of these children’s books eventually led to licensing agreements with The Walt Disney Company, Nickelodeon, Hasbro, Marvel Entertainment, DC Comics and Warner Bros.. Walter Foster Publishing's Walt Disney books and activity kits have sold more than 4,500,000 copies since 1991.\n\nIn 1996, Quarto Publishing, under direction of CEO Laurence Orbach, acquired Walter Foster Publishing, leaving Sarracino at the helm as President and CEO. In addition to growing its publishing and custom packaging (creating books and kits for Baker & Taylor, Barnes & Noble, Chronicle Books, Disney Press, Michaels, Scholastic, TJ Maxx and Target) business, Foster teamed with MEDL Mobile to create the Learn to Draw Digital Sketchbook app for the iPad. Since the app became available in December 2010, it has been downloaded over 200,000 times.\n\n"}
{"id": "38871759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38871759", "title": "World Federation of Engineering Organizations", "text": "World Federation of Engineering Organizations\n\nThe World Federation of Engineering Organizations (French: \"Federation Mondiale des Organisations d'Ingenieurs\"; WFEO) is an international, non-governmental organization representing the engineering profession worldwide. The current president is Jorge Spitalnik\n\nFounded in 1968 by a group of regional engineering organizations, under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) in Paris, WFEO is a non governmental international organization that brings together national engineering organizations from over 90 nations and represents some 20 millions engineers from around the world.\n\nThe governing body of WFEO is the General Assembly. Between meetings of the General Assembly the affairs of the Federation are directed by the Executive Council. The business of the Federation is dealt with by the Executive Board, supported by the Executive Director. Actions by the General Assembly, Executive Council, or Executive Board are by majority vote.\n\n\nWFEO body meets annually for the General Assembly and the individual Standing Technical Committee meetings. These meetings are framed by a conference, where non affiliated engineers can join. In general these conferences are annually in November.\n\nWFEO's President is elected by the General Assembly for a 2-years term, in the context of an immediate past president/president/president-elect system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11939889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11939889", "title": "Yusuf Grillo", "text": "Yusuf Grillo\n\nYusuf Grillo (born 1934) is a contemporary Nigerian artist known for his inventive works and the prominence of the color blue in many of his paintings. \n\nHe was president of the Society of Nigerian Artists.\n\nGrillo was born in Lagos and attended Nigerian College of Arts, Science and Technology, Zaria, where he received a diploma in Fine Arts and a post-graduate diploma in education. In 1966, he left Zaria for study at the academic halls of Cambridge University and later traveled to Germany and the United States of America.\n\nGrillo is considered one of Nigeria's outstanding and academically trained painters; he emerged to prominence and international recognition in the 1960s and 1970s, while exhibiting a large collection of his early works. He makes use of his western art training in many of his paintings, combining western art techniques with traditional Yoruba sculpture characteristics. His preference for color blue in natural settings paintings, is sometimes similar to the adire or resist-dye textiles used in Nigeria. He is a former Head of the Department of Art and Printing at Yaba College of Technology\n"}
