{"id": "33971306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33971306", "title": "Aboriginal sites of Victoria", "text": "Aboriginal sites of Victoria\n\nAboriginal sites of Victoria form an important record of human occupation for probably more than 40,000 years. They may be identified from archaeological remains, historical and ethnographic information or continuing oral traditions and encompass places where rituals and ceremonies were performed, occupation sites where people ate, slept and carried out their day to day chores, and ephemeral evidence of people passing through the landscape, such as a discarded axe head or isolated artefact.\n\nVictorian Aboriginal sites include shell middens, scarred trees, cooking mounds, rock art, burials, ceremonial sites and innumerable stone artefacts. These stone flakes represent the tools Aboriginal people used, such as knives, spear points, scrapers and awls, and the waste material left behind when they were made. Commonly referred to as \"stone artefact scatters\" such sites can be found on the surface or exposed by ploughing or erosion, or through careful archaeological excavation.\n\nScarred trees result from removing bark for the manufacture of shields, coolamons, shelters and other utensils can be found where appropriate species of tree of sufficient age survive. Some trees were marked with designs and symbols. A large river red gum with a canoe scar is located at Heide Gallery in Bulleen.\n\nThere have been more than 60 rock art sites identified in the Grampians National Park which contains about 80% of the known Aboriginal rock art sites in Victoria, with a number of new discoveries after the fires of January 2006. They depict humans, human hands, animal tracks and birds, while some are open to the public and are readily accessible including: Billimina (Glenisla shelter), Jananginj Njani (Camp of the Emu's Foot), Manja (Cave of Hands), Larngibunja (Cave of Fishes), Ngamadjidj (Cave of Ghosts), and Gulgurn Manja (Flat Rock). Nearby Bunjil's Shelter, which illustrates Bunjil, the creator, is in the Black Range near Stawell. A painting thought to be of a thylacine (Tasmanian tiger) is noted from Mt Pilot and the paintings at Mudgegonga rock shelter in north-eastern Victoria are possibly 3500 years old.\n\nCeremonial sites are rare, but two large stone arrangements have been found at Wurdi Youang near Mount Rothwell and Carisbrook. others have been identified from Oral tradition, although archaeological remains are no longer evident such as the Corroboree Tree at Richmond oval was a significant gathering place for the Wurundjeri people. A number of earth rings have been identified in Sunbury, which, although lacking historical or ethnographic evidence, have been interpreted as ceremonial Bora rings.\n\nEvidence of stone quarrying is rare, but the Mount William stone axe quarry is one of a number of stone sources used for making tools which were traded long distances throughout central and western Victoria and into New South Wales.\n\nOnly a relatively small number of burials have been identified in Victoria, most of which are associated with sand dunes along the coast or in the north west of the state. Kow Swamp is particularly significant for evidence of 13000 year old burial rituals using a headband of kangaroo incisors similar to those worn by Aboriginal people until recently, and for consistent burial practices over a long period. A burial on the banks of the Werribee river has been dated to about 7300 years ago.\n\nShell middens occur along most of the coastline and some lake-shores and river banks. Most of these were relatively recent (due to the mobile nature of sand) such as Seal Point and Moonlight Head in the Otway Ranges, although some like Mallacoota Inlet in eastern Gippsland have been dated to more than 2500 years ago, and Wilsons Promontory 6500 years ago.\n\nLarge earth mounds were built up by deliberate transport of soil and the remains of clay heat retainers in hearths, the collapse of seasonally abandoned turf huts and camp activities. Examples have been found on the Hopkins River flood plain in central western Victoria, and in the Nyah Forest, the oldest is dated to about 2500 years ago.\n\nFish and eel traps were constructed on many rivers, and while most were probably of organic materials and have left little trace, some, such as at Lake Condah in western Victoria reveal complex systems of excavated channels and stone weirs, dated to 3000 years ago. Stone artefacts found near the bones of now extinct megafauna at Lancefield in central Victoria have suggested Aboriginal people were living alongside giant marsupials 26,000 years ago.\n\nWhile rock shelters are often the sites of cave painting and other art, they also provide deeply stratified occupation deposits because they are protected from erosion. New Guinea II cave on the Snowy River near Buchan has deposits more than 10 000 years old along with delicate cave paintings and engravings. Rock shelters were occupied in the Cape Bridgewater area about 12,000 years ago. Cloggs Cave rock shelter near Buchan, Victoria was occupied about 18,000 years ago, where bone tools and animal remains were found. At the Keilor Archaeological Site a human hearth excavated in 1971 was radiocarbon-dated to about 31,000 years BP, making Keilor one of the earliest sites of human habitation in Australia, while at Box Gully on Lake Tyrrell, emu eggs and other artefacts have been dated to 27,000 years ago.\n\nStone artefact scatters are among the most common site types and provide evidence of tool use and manufacture. These are often extensive surface scatters and deep stratified deposits of flaked finegrained stone, of lithic flakes. Much of this material is waste flakes, discarded during the manufacture process. Specific types of artefacts such as blades, scrapers or burins may indicate what the area was used for, for example processing animal skins. Stone artefact material is usually rine grained silcrete, chert, and quartz. Hornfels is an unusual and rare material, but is highly distinctive.\n\nArchaeological evidence points to people first arriving in Australia around 50,000 years ago and in Victoria shortly after. Sites over 22,000 years old have been found at Kow Swamp Archaeological Site and the Keilor archaeological site. A cranium found at the site has been dated at between 12,000 and 14,700 years BP.\n\nThe oldest archaeological site in the greater Melbourne area, and one of the most important, is at Keilor on the Maribyrnong River. A human skull discovered there in 1940 was later found to be around 13 000 years old, older than any other human remains found in Australia up to that time, and the find attracted worldwide attention. After small excavations in the 1960s and 1970s, archaeologists from La Trobe University and the Victoria Archaeological Survey (VAS) began an excavation that continued for five years finding a sequence of stone tools and butchered animal bone.\n\nWhilst most evidence of Aboriginal settlement is derived from camp sites where fireplaces, remains of stone tool making and sometimes structures such as mounds and huts can be found, and these sites are almost always located close to reliable water sources, the distribution of Aboriginal archaeological sites demonstrates occupation of all the climatic zones in Victoria, even during the extreme global climatic conditions at the peak of the Last Glacial Maximum when temperatures were colder, vast amounts of surface water were frozen in glaciers and sea levels were lower. Around 18,000 BP sea levels were about 65 metres below present day levels, while archaeological evidence has shown that people were present in south‐eastern Australia throughout all of the climatic changes of at least the last 30,000 years ranging from the deep gorges and highlands of East Gippsland such as at Clogg’s Cave, and New Guinea II cave, the riverine plains at Keilor, the inland plains and swamps such as Kow Swamp, and the eastern ranges at the Grampians.\n\nAll Aboriginal archaeological sites and relics in Victoria are protected under the Aboriginal Heritage Act 2006, and are administered by Aboriginal Affairs Victoria, in some instances through delegation to Registered Aboriginal Parties. All known sites are recorded on the Victorian Aboriginal Heritage Register (VAHR), which is maintained by Aboriginal Affairs Victoria. There were approximately 30,000 places and objects included on the register to date.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6070795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070795", "title": "America 24/7", "text": "America 24/7\n\nAmerica 24/7 was a photography book published by DK in 2003 about culture and life in the United States. It depicts life of Americans from every U.S. State.\n\nBetween May 12–18, 2003, digital photographers were asked to take pictures of cities and towns, friends, neighbors, families and animals. More than 25,000 photographers responded. Photographers ranged from first-time users to international photojournalists and newspaper shooters. Included in these were 36 Pulitzer Prize winners.\n\nThe project was created by Rick Smolan and David Elliot Cohen, the team behind the \"New York Times\" #1 Bestseller: \"A Day in the Life of America\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39529129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39529129", "title": "Art Bug", "text": "Art Bug\n\nArt Bug, launched in 2001 by Jaelle Ang, an architect and artist by training, is a Singapore institution in art education. With focus on encouraging creative expression and critical thinking, Art Bug have provided art training to over 70 kindergartens and schools in Singapore. Art Bug became a part Singapore Cerebral Education Group in 2011. Its headquarters are in Singapore and Beijing.\n"}
{"id": "58183109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58183109", "title": "Auto restaurant", "text": "Auto restaurant\n\nAn Auto Restaurant is a Rest area facility found in Japan, equipped with food sale and feeding facilities by a vending machine.\nIn many cases it is unmanned and it is open 24 hours a day, but the facilities that include an , Amusement arcade, may have established business hours. Some locations have bathing facilities such as an Onsen.\n\nSuburban type shops along the National highways of Japan developed for customers who eat at midnight, such as the truck drivers of the 1970s. Initially, the range of foods available at the vending machines was hamburgers, cup noodle, and Japanese curry. They were prepared in a, microwave or used hot water from an integrated water heater, But later vending machines appeared that could automatically cook enriched meals with variations such as tempura, soba, and udon. There is also a sit down Drive-in.\n\nIn 1978, a video game machine \"space invaders\" appears, a fusion shop of the auto restaurant and the suburban game center has appeared, and it is at its peak. However, entering the 1980s, when the 24-hour convenience store and fast food stores increase all over the country, it is possible to procure meals without relying on vending machines even at midnight As a result, automatic vending machines that are complex and difficult to maintain have become obsolescent. Due to public security problems, the number of stores quickly reduced .\n\nThereafter, business types like \"AUTOMATIC SUPER · DELIS in which convenience chains set up vending machines for lunch and drinks at offices and the like also appeared. Moreover, in parking area of expressway, there are increasing cases of abolishing the shops / light snack corner or making it unmanned, and there are increasing cases to shift to this form, and parking areas with only the toilet and parking areas newly established Even such as doing such correspondence.\n\n"}
{"id": "55556542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55556542", "title": "Buiten De Zone", "text": "Buiten De Zone\n\nBuiten De Zone (English translation: \"Outside The Zone\") was a 1994-1996 Flemish humoristic-satirical TV series aiming a teenage demographic. It was a combination of a sitcom and a sketch show and broadcast on the Flemish public TV channel TV1. It gained a cult status and has been repeated several times since. The show was furthermore important for launching the notability of TV host Bart De Pauw, who both co-wrote and acted in the series.\n\n\"Buiten De Zone\" is set at a call center named \"De Jongerenphoon\" (\"The Young Adult Phone\"), where five young adults have to take calls to help out teenagers and twens with questions and problems. Three of them are men, Raf Willems, Ubi Stevens and Robin Laureys and two are women, Merel Van Outrive and Roxanne Seynaeve. Since the quintet are still very young themselves they are generally bored with taking the calls, particularly since the few people who phone them just make prank calls. Most of the time they either just talk with one another, practice hobbies or daydream. These daydreams are used as cut-aways to absurd comedic sketches. \n\nThe series ran for two seasons, the first one broadcast in 1994, the other in 1996. Each episode is built around a thematic concept. Much of the comedy was subversive and dealt with anarchic jokes about religion, education, teenage life and sex, along with historic-cultural references. The show also had a wide variety of running gags and catch phrases. \n\nThe show was the brainchild of Bart De Pauw, Danny Timmermans, Pietje Horsten, Ief Stuyvaert and Tom Lenaerts, who all co-wrote each episode. \n\n\nVarious celebrity TV actors also had cameos in the series. \n\n\"Buiten De Zone\" originally wasn't a huge success , mostly since none of the cast were well known actors at the time. Apart from that the series was also advertised as a show aimed at youngsters, which already gave many potential viewers the wrong impression that it was a child-oriented series. Since the series was cast on Friday evenings , after 22.00 p.m., it didn't reach its target demographic either, since many young people went to parties at that moment. Slowly but surely it started to gain a cult following, which grew as the second season was broadcast. De Pauw attributed this to the fact that the second series was much better and tighter written. \"Buiten De Zone\" now won the TV awards \"Best National TV Show 1996\" and the HA! van Humo from the magazine Humo. It also won silver at the Golden Rose of Montreux festival. In 1996-1998 Bart De Pauw and Tom Lenaerts became media superstars thanks to another TV show, \"Schalkse Ruiters\", which made rebroadcasts of \"Buiten De Zone\" gain a much wider audience than ever before. \n\nIn 2010 the entire series was released on DVD. The reason it had taken this long had to do with the fact that De Pauw often used film soundtrack music as atmospheric background music, which made copyright issues unavoidable. \n"}
{"id": "16365690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16365690", "title": "Camera degli Sposi", "text": "Camera degli Sposi\n\nThe Camera degli Sposi (\"bridal chamber\"), sometimes known as the Camera picta (\"painted chamber\"), is a room frescoed with illusionistic paintings by Andrea Mantegna in the Ducal Palace, Mantua, Italy. It was painted between 1465 and 1474 and commissioned by Ludovico III Gonzaga, and is notable for the use of \"trompe l'oeil\" details and its \"di sotto in sù\" ceiling.\nThe chronological sequence of the paintings has been recently discovered: the painter started from the vault by dry painting in the background small bits particularly those of the oculus and the wreath surrounding it. Then he moved on to the ‘Court scene’ where he used a mysterious oily tempera dry laid out on the surface. The east and south walls followed, with the traditional fresco technique representing heavy curtains. Finally the ‘Meeting scene’ on the west wall was painted, always ‘a fresco’ but in very small bits which confirms an almost ten-year period of work on that part of the chamber.\n\nThe \"Court Scene\" on the north wall shows Ludovico Gonzaga, dressed informally, with his wife Barbara of Brandenburg. They are seated with their relatives, while a group of courtiers fill the rest of the wall. The figures are interacting in an illusionistically expanded space.\n\nOn the west wall is the \"Meeting scene\". This fresco shows Ludovico in official robes in an ideal meeting with his son, Cardinal Francesco Gonzaga, the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick III and Christian I of Denmark.\n\nThe commission is far from being explained by scholars. The traditional interpretation sees the frescos as linked to the election as Cardinal of Ludovico's son Francesco Gonzaga, which took place on January 1, 1462: the Court scene should then represent the Marquis receiving the news, and the Meeting Scene should see father and son reunited in the happy event.\n\nThe mature and strongly-built figure of Francesco though, doesn’t seem to match with his age in 1461, which was only 17 (an early portrait held today in Naples confirms this). For this reason, these frescos could refer to a later visit of Cardinal Francesco to Mantua, perhaps on August 1472 when he was given the title of St. Andrew.\n\nMantegna's playful ceiling presents an oculus that illusionistically opens into a blue sky, with foreshortened putti playfully frolicking around a balustrade. This was one of the earliest di sotto in sù ceiling paintings.\n\n"}
{"id": "30801920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30801920", "title": "Citizenship Counts", "text": "Citizenship Counts\n\nCitizenship Counts is a non-partisan 501(c)(3) organization based in Arizona that is dedicated to inspiring American youth with a civic education curriculum that teaches them the value and responsibilities of citizenship, promotes pride in American citizenship, and encourages students to be involved in their communities.\n\nBy educating students on the tenets of citizenship, inspiring their pride of being United States citizens, and encouraging them to serve in their communities, Citizenship Counts empowers students to be responsible, active, and socially just citizens who appreciate the benefits of living in a diverse, inclusive, democratic country. Through this program, all citizens have greater access to naturalization ceremonies in their communities. Attending these ceremonies provides Americans with a deeper understanding and appreciation of the role that immigration has played in creating their diverse and dynamic communities.\n\nIn October 2004, Gerda Weissmann Klein was asked to speak at a naturalization ceremony that was hosted by Three Rivers Middle School in Cleves, Ohio. Klein was touched by the students' interest and excitement as they witnessed immigrants taking the \"Oath of Allegiance\" to become citizens of the United States. She envisioned students across the country having the opportunity to participate in planning and engaging in naturalization ceremonies hosted by their schools.\n\nKlein shared her experience with her granddaughter, Alysa Ullman Cooper, and her friend, Rita Schaefer, then President of McDougal Littell, a publisher of educational materials for middle- and high-school students. After learning that Klein and Ullman were invited to attend a special naturalization ceremony at the White House, Schaefer encouraged Ullman to author a civics-based curriculum about the naturalization process. In February 2008, \"The Path to Citizenship\" was published, and in August 2008, Citizenship Counts was founded to implement the program in schools across the United States.\n\nOn March 23, 2009, the inaugural naturalization ceremony under the stewardship of Citizenship Counts was held at the Phoenix Convention Center. Fifty new citizens from twenty-six countries took the \"Oath of Allegiance,\" which was administered by former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. More than one hundred students witnessed this event as Klein delivered a speech on achieving the \"American Dream\" of citizenship.\n\nIn 2009 and 2010, multiple naturalization ceremonies have been hosted at local schools and community centers in Arizona, including Villa Montessori and Mesquite High School.\n\nOn January 29, 2011, Citizenship Counts and the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) hosted a naturalization ceremony at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota, where forty-one adults from twenty-two countries and thirty-nine children from thirty-six countries participated. At this event, Gerda Weissmann Klein received the Outstanding American By Choice award from USCIS Director, Alejandro Mayorkas.\n\nIn February 2011, Gerda Weissmann Klein received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in a ceremony at the White House. Klein was nominated for this award by U.S. President Barack Obama for her dedication to \"the value of freedom\" and \"promoting tolerance and understanding among all people.\"\n\nFuture ceremonies and events are planned for Phoenix, Minneapolis-Saint Paul, Omaha, Buffalo, Cincinnati, Denver, and Honolulu schools. In the summer of 2011, Citizenship Counts will be partnering with the Close Up Foundation to host a ceremony in Washington, D.C., bringing students together from several communities across the country.\n\nCitizenship Counts' interactive and multi-disciplinary curriculum, \"The Path to Citizenship\", provides a unique opportunity for students to plan and host a community-based naturalization ceremony in their schools. This curriculum also helps students learn about the processes of immigration and naturalization and the rights of being a citizen in the United States. Topics and features include historical background on immigration to the United States, the naturalization process, classroom activities about immigration and citizenship, a citizenship handbook, and a school-wide naturalization ceremony project.\n\nCitizenship Counts acts as the liaison between the schools that utilize the curriculum and both USCIS and the U.S. Federal Courts, which perform naturalization ceremonies at the schools. At these ceremonies, school-wide participation is encouraged: the student choir has sung \"America the Beautiful\", the school band has played \"The Star-Spangled Banner\", the ROTC has presented the colors, and students have participated in essay and artwork contests. During the ceremony the students have the unique opportunity to witness the emotion and fulfillment felt by new citizens as they take \"The Oath of Allegiance.\"\n\nCitizenship Counts has partnered with numerous community and government organizations to assist schools and communities in planning and hosting naturalization ceremonies.\nCitizenship Counts has a variety of educational, political, business, and civic-minded community leaders who serve on its advisory or governing boards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41372282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41372282", "title": "Classifications of scholarship", "text": "Classifications of scholarship\n\nThis page lists the Classifications of scholarship; the classifications, thesauri or maps developed to categorise scholarly research. Classifications have been created by many organisations to classify scholarly research. The kinds of activity covered by these classifications include the research itself, the outputs of the research (such as articles in learned journals) and funding for the research.\n\nThe classifications operate at different levels of detail. Some cover the whole of scholarly endeavour; some cover broad fields, such as medicine; some cover entire disciplines, such as physics; some cover a specific sub-discipline, such as high-energy physics. In total there are probably hundreds or thousands of different classifications. The classifications have found new applications in the digital era as the basis for many commercial text-mining algorithms.\n\nThe classifications are the subject of ongoing inquiry and development among academics and agencies studying the system of science. These agencies include the OECD and the U.S. National Research Council. A conference on science mapping standards was held in 2013 at Indiana University.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22032703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22032703", "title": "Clothing material", "text": "Clothing material\n\nHistorically, clothing is, and has been, made from many materials. These materials range from grasses to furs, to much more elaborate and exotic materials. Some cultures, such as the various people of the Arctic Circle, have made their clothing entirely of prepared and decorated furs and skins. Other cultures have supplemented and replaced leather and skins with cloth. Cloth is either woven or knitted, and can be made from a large variety of fibers, which in turn can be natural, cellulose, or synthetic.\n\nHumans have shown extreme inventiveness in devising clothing solutions to environmental hazards and the distinction between clothing and other protective equipment is not always clear-cut; examples include space suit, air conditioned clothing, armor, diving suit, swimsuit, bee-keeper's protective clothing, motorcycle leathers, high-visibility clothing, and protective clothing in general.\n\nClothing is generally made of cloth. There are many different types of cloth, with different names and uses. Main differences between types of cloth include how the cloth was made (woven, knitted, felted, and how those techniques were implemented), what fiber it was made from, and what weight the cloth is. Different types of cloth are used for different types of clothing.\n\nSome common natural clothing materials are:\nSome are made from synthetic fibers, which are man made and generally not biodegradable. These are made primarily from petrochemicals.\nCommon man-made materials include:\n\nLess-common clothing materials include:\n\nReinforcing materials such as wood, bone, plastic and metal may be used in fasteners or to stiffen garments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36527", "title": "Cohabitation", "text": "Cohabitation\n\nCohabitation is an arrangement where two people who are not married live together. They often involve a romantic or sexually intimate relationship on a long-term or permanent basis.\n\nSuch arrangements have become increasingly common in Western countries during the past few decades, being led by changing social views, especially regarding marriage, gender roles and religion.\n\nMore broadly, the term \"cohabitation\" can mean any number of people living together. To \"cohabit\", in a broad sense, means to \"coexist\". The origin of the term comes from the mid 16th century, from the Latin \"cohabitare\", from co- 'together' + habitare 'dwell'.\n\nToday, cohabitation is a common pattern among people in the Western world.\n\nIn Europe, the Scandinavian countries have been the first to start this leading trend, although many countries have since followed. Mediterranean Europe has traditionally been very conservative, with religion playing a strong role. Until the mid-1990s, cohabitation levels remained low in this region, but have since increased.\n\nDuring the past decades, in Western countries, there has been an increase in unmarried couples cohabiting. Historically, many Western countries have been influenced by Christian doctrines on sex, which opposes unmarried cohabitation. As social mores have changed, such beliefs have become less widely held by the population and some Christian denominations today view cohabitation as a precursor to marriage. Pope Francis has married a cohabiting couple who had children, while former Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams and the Archbishop of York John Sentamu have expressed tolerance of cohabitation.\n\nIn recent decades high rates of participation of women in the workforce, and the widespread availability of highly effective long acting reversible contraceptives has led to women making individual choices over their reproduction with decreased reliance on male partners for financial stability. All these changes favored living arrangement alternatives to marriage.\n\nIn Central and Eastern Europe, during the late 1980s and early 1990s, there were major political changes, such as the fall of Communist governments. These societies entered a new era of increased social freedom, less rigid rules, and less authoritarian governments. They interacted with Western Europe and some became members of the European Union. As a result, the patterns of family life have started to change: marriage rates have declined, and marriage was postponed to a later age. Cohabitation and births to unmarried mothers increased, and in some countries the increase was very quick.\n\nThe \"deinstitutionalization of marriage\" refers to the weakening of the social and legal norms that regulate peoples' behavior in regard to marriage. The rise in cohabitation is part of other major social changes such as: higher divorce rate, older age at first marriage and childbearing, and more births outside marriage. Factors such as secularization, increased participation of women in the labor force, changing in the meaning of marriage, risk reduction, individualism, and changing views on sexuality have been cited as contributing to these social changes. There has also been a change in modern sexual ethics, with a focus on consent, rather than marital status (i.e. decriminalization of adultery and fornication; criminalization of marital rape), reflecting new concepts about the role and purpose of sexual interaction, and new conceptualizations of female sexuality and of self-determination. There have been objections against the legal and social regulation of female sexuality; with such regulations being often seen as violations of women's rights. In addition, some individuals may feel that marriage is unnecessary or outdated, leading to couples not formalizing their relation. For instance, in the European Values Study (EVS) of 2008, the percentage of respondents who agreed with the assertion that \"Marriage is an outdated institution\" was 37.5% in Luxembourg, 35.4% in France, 34.3% in Belgium, 31.2% in Spain, 30.5% in Austria, 29.2% in Germany, 27.7% in Switzerland, 27.2% in Bulgaria, 27.0% in the Netherlands, 25.0% in Slovenia.\n\nThe fact that many couples choose to live together without formalizing their relation is also recognized by the European Union. A 2004 directive forbids EU members from\ndenying entry or residence of partners \"with whom the Union citizen has a durable relationship, duly attested.\"\n\nA reason for the more permissive and less traditional views on cohabiting would be a low sex ratio. A low sex ratio would mean there are many more women than men, resulting in differing societal values and acceptable behaviors.\n\nToday, cohabitation in the United States is often seen as a natural step in the dating process. In fact, \"cohabitation is increasingly becoming the first coresidential union formed among young adults.\"\nMore than two-thirds of married couples in the US say that they lived together before getting married. \"In 1994, there were 3.7 million cohabiting couples in the United States.\" This is a major increase from a few decades ago. According to Dr. Galena Rhoades, \"Before 1970, living together outside marriage was uncommon, but by the late 1990s at least 50% to 60% of couples lived together premaritally.\n\nPeople may live together for a number of reasons. Cohabitants could live together in order to save money, because of the convenience of living with another, or a need to find housing.\nLower income individuals facing financial uncertainty may delay or avoid marriage, not only because of the difficulty of paying for a wedding but also because of fear of financial hardship if a marriage were to end in divorce.\n\nWhen given a survey of the reasons why they cohabit, most couples listed reasons such as spending more time together, convenience based reasons, and testing their relationships, while few gave the reason that they do not believe in marriage. The extremely high costs of housing and tight budgets of today's economy are also factors that can lead a couple to cohabitation.\n\nToday sixty percent of all marriages are preceded by a period of cohabitation. Researchers suggest that couples live together as a way of trying out marriage to test compatibility with their partners, while still having the option of ending the relationship without legal implications. \"More than three-quarters of all cohabitors report plans to marry their partners, which implies that most of them view cohabitation as a prelude to marriage. Cohabitation shares many qualities with marriage, often couples who are cohabiting share a residence, personal resources, exclude intimate relations with others and, in more than 10% of cohabiting couples, have children. \"Many young adults believe cohabitation is a good way to test their relationships prior to marriage. Couples who have plans to marry before moving in together or who are engaged before cohabiting typically marry within two years of living together. The state of cohabitation of a couple often ends either in marriage or in break-up; according to a 1996 study about 10% of cohabiting unions remained in this state more than five years. According to a survey done by The National Center for Health Statistics, \"over half of marriages from 1990-1994 among women began as cohabitation.\n\nCohabitation can be an alternative to marriage in situations where marriage is not possible for financial or family reasons (such as same-sex, interracial or interreligious marriages).\n\nCohabitation, sometimes called de facto marriage, is becoming more commonly known as a substitute for conventional marriage. Common-law marriage in the United States can still be contracted in nine US states, and in two others under restriction. This helps provide the surviving partner a legal basis for inheriting the decedent's belongings in the event of the death of their cohabiting partner. In today's cohabiting relationships, forty percent of households include children, giving us an idea of how cohabitation could be considered a new normative type of family dynamic. As of 2012, 41% of all births in the US were to unmarried women. In three states (Mississippi – 55%, Louisiana – 53%, and New Mexico – 52%) births outside marriage were in the majority; the lowest percentage of births outside marriage was in Utah, at 19%. During the period 2006–2010, 58% of births outside marriage were to cohabiting parents.\n\nContemporary objections to cohabiting couples include religious opposition to non-marital unions, social pressure for couples to get married, and potential effects of cohabitation on a child's development.\n\nThe rise in the number of cohabiting couples and children born out of wedlock in the Western world has made cohabitation a strong focus of sociological research. The rise in cohabiting couples in the United States, from around 450,000 in 1960 to 7.5 million in 2011 has been accompanied by US research performed on child development within cohabiting households. Opponents of cohabitation say non-marital parenting is an unsuitable environment for a child's development. One study from 2002 correlated lower numeracy skills and higher delinquency to children of cohabiting couples, however, recent studies that control for factors including poverty, the educational level of parents and violence in the home show children of cohabiting couples are developmentally similar to peers of comparable married couples.\n\nIn 2001, researchers compared teenage children living in a cohabiting household against peers in single-parent households. The results showed Caucasian and Hispanic teenagers had lower performance in school, greater risk of suspension or expulsion than peers from single-parent households, and the same rate behavioral and emotional problems.\n\nA study on the 1995 and 2002 National Survey of Family Growth found increases in both the prevalence and duration of unmarried cohabitation. The study found that 40% of children in the United States would live in a cohabiting household by age 12, and children born to single mothers were more likely than those born to married mothers to live in a cohabiting household. The percentage of women ages 19–44 who had ever cohabited increased from 45% in 1995 to 54% in 2002.\n\nIn 2002, 63% of women who graduate from high school were found to spend some time cohabiting, compared to only 45% of women with a four-year college degree. Cohabiting couples who have children often get married. One study found that children born of parents who cohabit are 90% more likely to end up living in households with married parents than children born to single mothers. 67% of unmarried Hispanic mothers are expected to marry, while 40% of African American mothers are expected to marry.\n\nStudies have found that religious affiliation correlates with cohabitation and marriage entry. People frequently cite religious reasons for their opposition to cohabitation. The Roman Catholic Church and nearly all mainstream Protestant denominations around the world oppose cohabitation and consider it to be the sin of fornication. However, others, such as the Anglican Church \"welcome cohabiting couples in the Church and encourage them to regard cohabitation as a prelude to Christian marriage.\"\n\nReligion can also lead to societal pressures against cohabitation especially within highly religious communities. Some couples may refrain from cohabitation because one or both partners fear disappointing or alienating conservative family members. Young adults who grew up in families that oppose cohabitation have lower rates than their peers.\nThe increase in cohabitation in the United States and other developed nations has been linked to the secularization of those countries. Researchers have noted that changes in the religious demographics of a society have accompanied the rise in cohabitation.\n\nNon-marital and same-sex relationships are forbidden by the Islamic law of Zina, and cohabitation is against the law in many Muslim majority countries including Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Kuwait, Maldives, Morocco, Oman, Mauritania, United Arab Emirates, Sudan, and Yemen.\n\nAs premarital cohabitation occurs more frequently, there are more research participants which has led to a greater understanding of the factors of stable, lasting relationships. This has led to more possibilities and studies. The early studies, performed decades ago, did not account for the multiple factors that comprise the stability of a relationship. Researchers have found evidence that previous research into the effects of premarital cohabitation does not apply to modern relationships. New results have shown there are many factors that lead to divorce that are not cohabitation.\n\nConflicting studies on the effect of cohabitation on subsequent marriage have been published. In countries where the majority of people disapprove of unmarried individuals living together, or a minority of the population cohabits before marriage, marriages resulting from cohabitation are more prone to divorce. But in a study on European countries, those where around half of the population cohabits before marriage, cohabitation is not selective of divorce-prone individuals, and no difference in couples that have cohabited before and after marriage is observed. In countries such as Italy, the increased risk of marital disruption for people who experienced premarital cohabitation can be entirely attributed to the selection of the most divorce-prone into cohabitation.\n\nIn 2002 the CDC found that for married couples the likelihood percentage of the relationship ending after five years is 20%, for unmarried cohabitators the likelihood percentage is 49%. After 10 years the likelihood percentage for the relationship to end is 33% for married couples and 62% for unmarried cohabitators.\n\nA 2004 study of 136 couples (272 individuals) from researchers at the University of Denver found differences among couples that cohabited before engagement, after engagement, or not until marriage. The longitudinal study collected survey data collected before marriage and 10 months into marriage, with findings suggesting those\nwho cohabit before engagement are at greater risk for poor marital outcomes than those who\ncohabit only after engagement or at marriage.\nA follow-up survey by the researches of over 1,000 married men and women married in the past 10 years found those who moved in with a lover before engagement or marriage reported significantly lower quality marriages and a greater possibility of a separation than other couples.\n\nAbout 20% of those who cohabited before getting engaged had since suggested splitting – compared with only 12% of those who only moved in together after getting engaged and 10% who did not cohabit prior to marriage.\n\nThe researchers from Denver suggest that relationships with pre-engagement cohabitation \"may wind up sliding into marriage\", whereas those that only cohabit post engagement or marriage make a more clear decision. This could explain their 2006 study of 197 heterosexual couples finding that men who cohabited with their spouse before engagement were less dedicated than men who cohabited only after engagement or not at all before marriage.\nIn some heterosexual couples, women are more likely to understand cohabitation as an intermediary step preceding marriage, and men more likely to perceive it without an explicit connection to marriage.\n\nAn analysis of data from the CDC's National Survey of Family Growth data from 1988, 1995, and 2002 suggests that the positive relationship between premarital cohabitation and marital instability has weakened for more recent birth and marriage cohorts, as the total number of couples cohabiting before marriage has increased.\n\nLater CDC work found that between 2002 and 2006-2010, the number of couples in opposite-sex cohabiting relationships increased from 9.0% to 11.2% for women, and from 9.2% to 12.2% for men.\nDrawing on the 2006–2008 data, Princeton university researchers examined whether and to what extent variation in premarital cohabitation experiences influence marital stability. They found that the relationship between cohabitation and marital instability is complex and depends in part on marriage cohort, race/ethnicity, and marriage plans. Their analyses reveal that a 'cohabitation effect' exists only for women married prior to 1996, and that, until marriage plans are considered, there is no cohabitation effect among women married since 1996.\n\nRecent research from 2011 by the Pew Research Center has found that the number of couples that cohabit before marriage has increased. 44% of adults (and more than half of 30- to 49-year-olds) say they have cohabited at some point. Nearly two-thirds of adults who ever cohabited (64%) say they thought about it as a step toward marriage. The report also notes a trend toward rising public acceptance of cohabiting couples over the years. Most Americans now say the rise in unmarried couples living together either makes no difference to society (46%) or is good for society (9%).\n\nA 2012 study found that, among cohabiting individuals, those who were engaged prior to cohabitation or had \"definite plans for marriage\" were linked to lower risks of marital instability among women, but the relationship was not observed with men.\n\nOne study on low to moderate income couples living with minor children found that respondents who became sexually involved within the first month of their relationship were correlated to lower scores of relationship quality among women. Another study found respondents to a mail-in survey self-reported higher levels of commitment in the cohabiting group, as well as lower relationship satisfaction and more negative communication.\n\nUniversity of Chicago sociologist Linda Waite found that \"16 percent of cohabiting women reported that arguments with their partners became physical during the past year, while only 5 percent of married women had similar experiences.\" Most cohabiting couples have a faithful relationship, but Waite's surveys also demonstrated that 20% of cohabiting women reported having secondary sex partners, compared to only 4% of married women. A 1992 study found that male members of heterosexual couples with children are less likely to be a part of the childcare but half the time they are responsible for child abuse.\n\nAccording to an article by Judith Treas and Deirdre Giesen, cohabiting couples are twice as likely to experience infidelity within the relationship than married couples.\n\nRegarding cohabitation as a fertility factor, a large survey in the United States came to the result that married women had an average of 1.9 children, compared to 1.3 among those cohabiting. The corresponding numbers for men were 1.7 and 1.1, respectively. The difference of 0.6 children for both sexes was expected to decrease to between 0.2 and 0.3 over the lifetime when correcting for the confounder that married people have their children earlier in life.\n\nA study of the United States and multiple countries in Europe came to the result that women who continue to cohabit after birth have significantly lower probability of having a second child than married women in all countries except those in Eastern Europe. Another study, on the contrary, came to the result that cohabiting couples in France have equal fertility as married ones. Also, Russians have a higher fertility within cohabitation, while Romanians rather tend to have childless marriages.\n\nSurvey data from 2003 in Romania came to the result that marriage equalized the total fertility rate among both highly educated and low educated people to approximately 1.4. Among those cohabiting, on the other hand, lower level of education increased fertility rate to 1.7, and a higher level of education decreased it to 0.7. On the other hand, another study came to the result that Romanian women with little education have about equal fertility in marital and cohabiting partnerships.\n\nIn the United States, married couples that submit a combined tax return may face a marriage penalty, where tax credits for low-income single earners are not applied to the combined income.\nIn October 1998, Senate GOP leader Trent Lott decided to pull a bill to abolish \"the marriage penalty,\" \"which in the tax code reflects the fact that married couples who both work for wages frequently pay more in taxes than if they earned the same amount of income but weren't married. And the more equal the incomes of the couple, the steeper the marriage tax penalty.\" The earned income tax credit (EITC) is cash welfare for low-income workers, but the problem is the EITC is not for married couples because they have to combine their wages, which again leads to \"the marriage penalty.\" If couples do not get married then their wages do not have to combine and the EITC in a way is \"paying for\" low-income couples not to marry. Opponents of cohabitation believe that some cohabiting couples choose not to marry because they would suffer a tax penalty.\n\nDespite the perceived disincentive to marry that the EITC provides, cohabiting couples suffer many financial losses as their unions are not recognized with the same legal and financial benefits as those who are legally married. These financial penalties can include the costs of separate insurance policies and the costs of setting up legal protections similar to those that are automatically granted by the state upon marriage.\n\nA conflicting study, published by the National Center for Health Statistics, with a sample of 12,571 people, concludes that \"those who live together after making plans to marry or getting engaged have about the same chances of divorcing as couples who never cohabited before marriage.\"\n\nAdditionally, William Doherty, a professor in the Department of Family Social Science at the University of Minnesota has remarked that in his research he has found that \"committed cohabiting relationships seem to confer many of the benefits of marriage.\"\n\nA 2003 study by the Australian Institute of Family Studies found that \"The differences in measured outcomes for those from direct and indirect marriages appear to be entirely attributable to other factors.\" The study concluded that the evidence suggests that premarital cohabitation has \"little impact one way or the other\" on the chances of any subsequent marriage surviving.\n\nCanadian laws on the recognition of unmarried cohabitation for legal purposes vary significantly by province/territory; and in addition to this, federal regulations also have an impact across the country. (see Common-law marriage#Canada) Family formation has undergone significant changes in Canada during the last decades of the 20th century, but the patterns vary widely across the country, suggesting differing cultural norms in different regions. Since the mid 1990s, births to cohabiting parents have increased, particularly in Quebec. In Canada, it is difficult to obtain exact data on the percentage of births outside marriage, due to the fact that data on the marital status of mothers is collected differently across the provinces and territories of Canada, and in some (such as Alberta) it is not broken down in detail in regard to whether the mother was legally married or not at the birth of her child. As of 2012, the statistical category of \"single mothers\"(defined as \"never married\" at the time of the birth) encompassed 28.3% of mothers, the category \"divorced\" (i.e. mothers who were unmarried at the time of birth, but had been previously married during their lives) encompassed 1%, while for 10% of mothers the marital status was unknown (\"not stated\").\nThere are, however, very significant differences by province/territory; for example in 2012, 77.8% of births in Nunavut were listed to \"single mothers\", by contrast, less than 20% of mothers in Ontario were listed in this category. Latest data from the Quebec Statistical Institute shows that as of 2015, in Quebec, 63% of children were born to unmarried women. In Canada, legal issues regarding cohabitation are very complicated by the fact that family law in this regard differs by province/territory, which is very confusing to the public, especially as this contrasts to criminal law which is the same across Canada, as well as to marriage and divorce law, which is also the same across the country, under the 1986 Divorce Act (Canada) (although provinces/territories have jurisdiction over some marital issues, including the solemnization of marriage, spousal and child support, and property division). The marital status of Canadians also varies by province/territory: in 2011, 46.4% of the population aged 15 and over was legally married; ranging from the lowest percentage of married people being in Nunavut (29.7%), Northwest Territories (35.0%), Quebec (35.4%), and Yukon (37.6%); to highest being in Newfoundland and Labrador (52.9%), Prince Edward Island (51.7%), Ontario (50.3%) and Alberta (50.2%). While today Quebec is known for liberal family formation and cohabitation, this is a recent development: during the first half of the 20th century, family life in the province was conservative and strongly dominated by Roman Catholicism; before 1968, there was no provincial divorce legislation in Quebec, and spouses could only end their marriage if they obtained a private Act of Parliament. One of the explanations of the current high rates of cohabitation in Quebec is that the traditionally strong social control of the church and the Catholic doctrine over people's private relations and sexual morality has led the population to rebel against traditional and conservative social values. While some provinces were early to modernize family law, in others this only happened in the 1990s and the 21st century, such as in Alberta, through the Family Law Act (Alberta) which came into force in 2005. This Act overhauled family legislation, replacing the Domestic Relations Act, the Maintenance Order Act, the Parentage and Maintenance Act, and parts of the Provincial Court Act and the Child, Youth and Family Enhancement Act, which were seen as outdated. Also, the Adult Interdependent Relationships Act (S.A. 2002, c. A-4.5) amended 69 Alberta laws. The Canadian Prairies provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan have strong common-law spouses regulations, imposing rights and obligations on common-law couples. Nova Scotia has also been very slow to advance family law – it was only in 1999 that this province abolished discrimination against \"illegitimate\" children with regard to inheritance (through section 16 of NS Intestate Succession Act amended in 1999). In general, today, provinces in Western Canada give more rights to common-law spouses than those in Atlantic Canada and in Quebec. This may seem quite paradoxical, because it is the eastern provinces which have the strongest tradition of cohabitation; according to a study \"unmarried cohabitation seems to be more common in Eastern Canada than in Western Canada, which might be related to internal and international migration\". (as of 2012, 48% of births in New Brunswick, 47.1% in Newfoundland and Labrador, and 45.2% in Nova Scotia, were listed to \"single mothers\", way above the national average). In British Columbia, the Family Law Act came into force in 2013.\n\nCohabitation in the United States became common in the late 20th century. , 4.85 million unmarried couples were living together, and , about half of all women aged 15 to 44 had lived unmarried with a partner. In 2007, it is estimated that 6.4 million households were maintained by two opposite sex persons who said they were unmarried.\n\nResearchers at the National Center for Family and Marriage Research estimated in 2011 that 66% of first marriages are entered after a period of cohabitation. According to the 2009 American Community Survey conducted by the Census Bureau, the proportion of 30- to 44-year-olds living together has almost doubled since 1999, from 4% to 7%. Fifty-eight percent of women aged 19 to 44 had ever cohabited in data collected in 2006-08, while in 1987 only 33% had. Cohabitation is more prevalent among those with less education. \"Among women ages 19 to 44, 73% of those without a high school education have ever cohabited, compared with about half of women with some college (52%) or a college degree (47%),\" note the Pew study's authors, Richard Fry and D'Vera Cohn.\n\nBefore the mid-20th century, laws against cohabitation, fornication, adultery and other such behaviors were common in the US (especially in Southern and Northeastern states), but these laws have been gradually abolished or struck down by courts as unconstitutional.\nAs of April 2016, cohabitation of unmarried couples remains illegal in three states (Mississippi, Michigan, and North Carolina), while fornication remains illegal in five states (Idaho, Utah, South Carolina, Minnesota, Illinois). These laws are almost never enforced and are now believed to be unconstitutional since the legal decision \"Lawrence v. Texas\" in 2003. However, these laws may have indirect effects. For example, one consequence may be that one may not claim their partner as a dependent (for a tax exemption), whereas in the other states it may be possible to do so after meeting four criteria: residency, income, support and status.\n\nIn 2006, in North Carolina, Pender County Superior Court judge Benjamin G. Alford ruled that North Carolina's cohabitation law is unconstitutional. However, the Supreme Court of North Carolina has never had the opportunity to rule on it, so the law's statewide constitutionality remains unclear.\n\nOn 13 December 2013, US Federal Judge Clark Waddoups ruled in \"Brown v. Buhman\" that the portions of Utah's anti-polygamy laws which prohibit multiple cohabitation were unconstitutional, but also allowed Utah to maintain its ban on multiple marriage licenses. Unlawful cohabitation, where prosecutors did not need to prove that a marriage ceremony had taken place (only that a couple had lived together), had been a major tool used to prosecute polygamy in Utah since the 1882 Edmunds Act.\n\nCohabitation in Latin America is becoming more common. Indeed, although this is a largely Roman Catholic region, it has the highest rates of non-marital childbearing in the world (55–74% of all children in this region are born to unmarried parents). In Mexico, 18.7% of all couples were cohabiting . Among young people, the figures are much higher.\n\nAs of 2000, in Argentina 58% of births were to unmarried women.\nThe percentage of births outside marriage has increased throughout Latin America during the past decades, and there is also a relation to place of residence: women living in the capital city are more likely to have children outside marriage than those living in other parts of the country. Recent data shows figures for non-marital childbearing to be 74% for Colombia, 69% for Peru, 68% for Chile, 66% for Brazil and 55% for Mexico.\n\nIn Nepal, living together is socially acceptable only after marriage. However, cohabitation is an emerging trend in urban areas of Nepal. Reports have shown that there may be significant number of unmarried couples cohabiting in cities, especially in the capital, Kathmandu. Even when the unmarried couples cohabit they either prefer to remain anonymous or pose themselves as married couple. Cohabitation is not recognized by the law of Nepal and there is no special provision to secure the right of cohabitants in Nepalese law.\n\nIn Bangladesh cohabitation after divorce is frequently punished by the salishi system of informal courts, especially in rural areas.\n\nIn Bangladesh, cohabitation is considered both socially and legally unacceptable, although legal grounds are not clear. An unmarried couple will feel immense pressure to marry, will probably choose to live as if they were married and, if exposed, can be expelled from housing or university\n\nCohabitation in India had been taboo in traditional medieval Hindu and Muslim society. However, this is no longer true in large cities, but is not often found in rural areas which are more conservative. Live-in relationships are legal in India. Recent Indian court rulings have ascribed some rights to long-term cohabiting partners. Female live-in partners have economic rights under Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005 subject to following conditions as laid by Honourable Supreme Court of India in case of \"D. Velusamy v D. Patchaiammal\":\n\n\nIn Indonesia, an Islamic penal code proposed in 2005 would have made cohabitation punishable by up to two years in prison. The practice is still frowned upon, and many hotels and boarding houses have been raided by police for allowed unmarried couples to share a room.\n\nIn Japan, according to M. Iwasawa at the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research, less than 3% of females between 25–29 are currently cohabiting, but more than one in five have had some experience of an unmarried partnership, including cohabitation. A more recent Iwasawa study has shown that there has been a recent emergence of non-marital cohabitation. Couples born in the 1950s cohort showed an incidence of cohabitation of 11.8%, where the 1960s and 1970s cohorts showed cohabitation rates of 30%, and 53.9% respectively. The split between urban and rural residence for people who had cohabited is indicates 68.8% were urban and 31.2% were rural.\n\nIn the Philippines, around 2.4 million Filipinos were cohabiting . The 2000 census placed the percentage of cohabiting couples at 19%. The majority of individuals are between the ages of 20–24. Poverty was often the main factor in decision to cohabit.\n\nIn the European Union, cohabitation is very common. In 2014, 42% of all births in the 28 EU countries were nonmarital. In the following European countries the majority of births occur outside marriage: Iceland (69.9% in 2016), France (59.7% in 2016), Bulgaria (58.6% in 2016), Slovenia (58.6% in 2016), Norway (56.2% in 2016), Estonia (56.1% in 2016), Sweden (54.9% in 2016), Denmark (54% in 2016), Portugal (52.8% in 2016), and the Netherlands (50.4% in 2016).\nWhile couples of all ages cohabit, the phenomenon is much more common among younger people. In late 2005, 21% of families in Finland consisted of cohabiting couples (all age groups). Of couples with children, 18% were cohabiting. Of ages 18 and above in 2003, 13.4% were cohabiting. Generally, cohabitation amongst Finns is most common for people under 30. Legal obstacles for cohabitation were removed in 1926 in a reform of the Criminal Code, while the phenomenon was socially accepted much later on. In France, 17.5% of couples were cohabiting as of 1999.\n\nIn Britain today, nearly half of babies are born to people who are not married (in the United Kingdom 47.3% in 2011; in Scotland in 2012 the proportion was 51.3%). It is estimated that by 2016, the majority of births in the UK will be to unmarried parents.\n\nThe Victorian era of the late 19th century is famous for the Victorian standards of personal morality. Historians generally agree that the middle classes held high personal moral standards and rejected cohabitation. They have debated whether the working classes followed suit. Moralists in the late 19th century such as Henry Mayhew decried high levels of cohabitation without marriage and illegitimate births in London slums. However new research using computerized matching of data files shows that the rates of cohabitation were quite low—under 5% -- for the working class and the urban poor.\n\nFalling marriage rates and increased births outside marriage have become a political issue, with questions of whether the government should promote marriage or focus on the status of a parent rather than a spouse; the Conservative Party support the former whilst Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats support the latter. There are also differences between England and Wales and Scotland, with the latter being more accepting of cohabitation.\n\nIn Bulgaria, there has been a rapid increase in cohabitation after the fall of Communism. The transition from communism to market economy had a great impact on the demographic behavior of the population. After the fall of Communism, the legal and social pressure to get married has declined, and the population has started to experience new life styles. As of 2014, 58.8% of children were born to unmarried mothers.\n\nThe marriage rates in Czech Republic have fallen dramatically during the past decades. In the 1970s to 1980s, about 96–97% of women got married; in 2000 it was estimated that only 75% of women would ever get married. The age at first marriage for women has increased from being in the range of 21.4–21.8 years in the 1970s and 1980s, to being 29.6 in 2011. In the early 1990s, predictions were made by some Czech demographers that cohabitation would increase during the next decades; and indeed, there has been a marked increase in the number of people who live in non-marital couple relations. In 2016, 48.6% of births were to unmarried women.\n\nAs in other western societies, patterns of family life have been changing in Germany during the past decades. This has not created a moral panic, but has been seen more as an ongoing social evolution. Cohabitation, divorce rates, lone parents, and people's reluctance to marry or to have children have increased. However, when it comes to family formation and long term cohabitation instead of marriage, there are very strong differences between the regions of former West Germany and East Germany (which was formally Communist). Significantly more children are born out of wedlock in eastern Germany than in western Germany. In 2012, in eastern Germany 61.6% of births were to unmarried women, while in western Germany only 28.4% were. A longitudinal survey found that union stability was significantly higher for cohabiting mothers in eastern Germany than western Germany, due to differences in German society.\n\nIn Greece, family dynamics remain conservative. The principal form of partnership is marriage, and extramarital childbearing and long term cohabitation are not widespread. For instance, in 2016 only 9.4% of births were outside marriage, which is the lowest percentage among the European Union member states. Religion in Greece plays a very important role in society; it was only in 1983 that civil marriage was introduced in the country. The new laws modernized family law, abolished dowry, and provided for equal rights for \"illegitimate\" children. According to a 2008 study: \"Greek society still remains conservative and birthing outside marriage, although protected by law, remains in many ways socially unacceptable.\" Despite this, there have been further legal changes providing for a modern \"western\" outlook on family life, including Law 3719/2008 dealing with family issues, including Article 14 of the law, which reduced the separation period (necessary before a divorce in certain circumstances) from four years to two years.\n\nThe literature on second demographic transition argues as well that highly educated women are more prone to engage in cohabitation, although the reasons are different: they are less concerned with respecting the societal norms. Some scholars argued that cohabitation is very similar to being single in the sense of not giving up independence and personal autonomy.\n\nIn Hungary, cohabitation was an uncommon phenomenon until the late 1980s and it was largely confined to the divorced or widowed individuals. Among the ethnic groups, Gypsy/Rroma tended to have higher rates of cohabitation, mainly due to their reluctance to register their marriages officially. Since the 1980s, cohabitation became much more frequent among all ethnic groups and it has been argued to have strongly influenced the decline in fertility. As of 2015, 47.9% of births were to unmarried women.\n\nCohabitation in Ireland has increased in recent years, and 36.6% of births were to unmarried women in 2016. Until a few decades ago, women who had children outside marriage were severely stigmatized and often detained in Magdalene laundries. The Civil Partnership and Certain Rights and Obligations of Cohabitants Act 2010 gives some rights to unmarried cohabitants (under this act same-sex couples can enter into civil partnerships, while long term unmarried couples – both heterosexual and same sex – who have not registered their relation have some limited rights and obligations).\n\nIn Italy, where Roman Catholicism had a historically strong presence, cohabitation is not as common as in other countries of Europe, yet it has increased in recent years. There are significant regional differences, with non-marital unions being more common in the North of the country than in Southern Italy. A study published in 2006 found that long term cohabitation was still novel to Italy, though more common among young people. As of 2015, the share of births outside marriage was 28.7%, but this varied by statistical regions as follows: Central Italy (33.8%), Northeast Italy (33.1%), Northwest Italy (31.3%), Insular Italy (24.2%), and South Italy (20.3%).\n\nDutch researchers have found that research participants see cohabitation as a risk-reduction strategy in a country with high relationship instability. As of 2016, 50.4% births were to unmarried women.\n\nCohabitation is a common type of partnership in Norway. Cohabitants have some rights if they have joint children, or if they have lived together for five years. Cohabitants can also regulate their relationship through a cohabitation agreement. In Norway, in 2016, 56.2% of children were born outside marriage.\n\nIn Poland, after the fall of Communism, the influence of religion has increased. Indeed, Poland has one of the most religious populations in Europe (see religion in Europe). Cohabitation in Poland has traditionally been associated with the lower social classes, but in recent years an increase has been seen among the more educated. Family structure in Poland remains traditional: Marriages are contracted at relatively young ages, and the incidence of divorce is relatively low (by European standards). The exact incidence of cohabitation is not well established, but it is quite low compared to other Western countries. However, Poland is not completely 'immune' to Western influence and, in 2016, 25% of children were born outside marriage.\n\nSlovakia is more conservative and religious than neighboring Czech Republic. The principal form of partnership is marriage, but extramarital childbearing and cohabitation are slowly spreading, yet this trend is not without criticism; and some view these phenomena as a threat to traditional values. In 2016, 40.2% of births were to unmarried women. Fertility in Slovakia has been described in a 2008 study as \"between tradition and modernity\".\n\nSwitzerland has a tradition of strong conservatism; which can be seen in its legal and social history: in Europe, Switzerland was one of the last countries to establish gender equality in marriage: married women's rights were severely restricted until 1988, when legal reforms providing gender equality in marriage, abolishing the legal authority of the husband, come into force (these reforms had been approved in 1985 by voters in a referendum, who narrowly voted in favor with 54.7% of voters approving). Adultery was decriminalized in 1989. Until the late 20th century, most cantons had regulations banning unmarried cohabitation of couples; the last canton to end such prohibition was Valais, in 1995. As of 2015, 22.5% of births were to unmarried women.\nBirths outside marriage are most common in the French speaking part (highest percentage in the cantons of Vaud, Neuchâtel, Geneva, Jura) and least common in the eastern German speaking cantons (lowest percentage in the cantons of St. Gallen, Zug, Appenzell Innerrhoden, Appenzell Ausserrhoden).\n\nSpanish society has undergone major changes since the fall of the Franco regime. Important legal changes which have occurred throughout the 1970s and 1980s include legalization of divorce, decriminalization of adultery, gender equality in family law, and removing the ban on contraception. The liberalization of the political climate has allowed for alternative family formation. In the mid-1990s, cohabitation in Spain was still described as a \"marginal\" phenomenon, but since the 1990s, cohabitation has increased dramatically in Spain. In Spain, in 2016, 45.9% of births were outside marriage. As in other countries, there are regional differences: in 2011, in Catalonia the figure was 42% – highest in mainland Spain in that year (Canary Islands 59% and Balearic Islands 43.5% were highest) while in Murcia it was only 30.7% (lowest).\n\nIn Russia, many couples express a desire to cohabit before marriage, then register a civil marriage, and then at a later stage have a large church wedding.\n\nThe cohabitation rate in West Asian countries is much lower than in European countries. In some parts of the continent it is however becoming more common for young people. As of 1994, the rate of premarital cohabitation in Israel was 25%.\n\nCohabitation is illegal according to Sunni sharia law.\nCohabitation, Bi'ah, is a legal status, \"Yadua BetTzibbur\", by the Jews Halakha or Halacha religious Law\n\nIn Australia, 22% of couples were cohabiting . 78% of couples who marry have lived together beforehand in 2008, rising from 16% in 1975. As of 2013, of all births, 34% were to unmarried women. Australia recognizes de facto relationships. The proportion of births outside marriage varies by state/territory, being, in 2009, lowest in Victoria (at 28%), Australian Capital Territory (at 29%), and New South Wales (at 30%); and highest in Northern Territory (at 63%) and Tasmania (at 51%).\n\nIn New Zealand, 23.7% of couples were cohabiting as of 2006. In 2010, 48% of births were outside marriage. Like Australia, New Zealand recognizes \"de facto\" relationships.\n\n"}
{"id": "10074706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10074706", "title": "Counter (furniture)", "text": "Counter (furniture)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46754151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46754151", "title": "Credentialism and educational inflation", "text": "Credentialism and educational inflation\n\nCredentialism and educational inflation are any of a number of related processes involving increased demands for formal educational qualifications, and the devaluation of these qualifications. In Western society, there have been increasing requirements for formal qualifications or certification for jobs, a process called credentialism that is not easily differentiated from professionalization. This process has, in turn, led to credential inflation (also known as credential creep, academic inflation or degree inflation), the process of inflation of the minimum credentials required for a given job and the simultaneous devaluation of the value of diplomas and degrees. These trends are also associated with grade inflation, a tendency to award progressively higher academic grades for work that would have received lower grades in the past. In countries in the Middle East, where the rulers have traditionally used public sector jobs as a form of political appeasement for the middle classes, this has resulted in many youth seeking university degrees that are only suited for work in public sector roles, making them unqualified for private sector roles.\n\nThere are some occupations which used to require a high school diploma, such as construction supervisors, loans officers, insurance clerks and executive assistants, that are increasingly requiring a bachelor's degree. Some jobs that formerly required candidates to have a bachelor's degree, such as becoming a Director in the federal government, tutoring students, or being a history tour guide in a historic site, now require a master's degree. As well, some jobs that used to require a master's degree, such as junior scientific researcher positions and sessional lecturer jobs, now require a Ph.D. Finally, some jobs that formerly required only a Ph.D, such as university professor positions, are increasingly requiring one or more postdoctoral fellowship appointments. Furthermore, the increasingly global nature of competitions for high-level positions is another cause of credential creep.\n\nCredentialism is a reliance on formal qualifications or certifications to determine whether someone is permitted to undertake a task, speak as an expert or work in a certain field. It has also been defined as \"excessive reliance on credentials, especially academic degrees, in determining hiring or promotion policies.\". Credentialism has also been defined as occurring where the credentials for a job or a position are upgraded, even though there is no skill change that makes this increase necessary.\n\nProfessionalization is the social process by which any trade or occupation is transformed into a true \"profession of the highest integrity and competence.\" This process tends to involve establishing acceptable qualifications, a professional body or association to oversee the conduct of members of the profession and some degree of demarcation of the qualified from unqualified amateurs. This creates \"a hierarchical divide between the knowledge-authorities in the professions and a deferential citizenry.\" This demarcation is often termed \"occupational closure\", as it means that the profession then becomes closed to entry from outsiders, amateurs and the unqualified: a stratified occupation \"defined by professional demarcation and grade.\" The origin of this process is said to have been with guilds during the Middle Ages, when they fought for exclusive rights to practice their trades as journeymen, and to engage unpaid apprentices.\n\nOver the past sixty years in the Western world, and more recently in developing countries, there has been significant growth in the number of people who have educational credentials, an increase in the number of credentialing bodies, and a growth in the use of educational credentials as a way of selecting people for employment.\n\nPsychologist Tony Buon has stated that in demanding credentials for certain occupations, employers' reasons fall into two rather crude categories:\n\nBuon cautions that this is an uneasy dichotomy and that it is probable that in every case, to some extent, the screening and the investment effect would co-exist.\n\nAn employer may require a diploma, professional license or academic degree for a job which can be done by applying skills acquired through experience, informal study, or less extensive study. One example is the requirement by some investment banks that new hires have an M.Sc. in Economics. Jobs that, in the past, required a high school diploma (such as entry level policy analysts in the government) increasingly require a B.A. degree or even an M.A. during the screening process.\n\nCredentialism can be lessened if certification accurately reflects actual skill competencies and expectations of those skill competencies. As Tony Buon & Bob Compton (1990) state, given that the entire recruitment process is aimed at predicting future success, it does not make a great deal of sense to rely on only one indicator (i.e. educational credentials). The results of at least one study support this view, and suggest that employers see experience as a better indication of potential work performance than educational credentials.\n\nThe term \"credentialism\" also refers to an over-emphasis on certificates and degrees as a way of determining social status. Credentialism can lead to credential inflation. Sociologist Randall Collins' 1979 book \"The Credential Society\" \"examine[s] the connection between credentialism and stratification.\" \n\nCredential creep is the process of inflation of the minimum job requirement. This may happen when a professional organization increases the entry to practice requirements for the profession, or it may be the result of \"one-upmanship\" among candidates for a job, creating a kind of de facto increase in required credentials for a position.\n\nIn the early 20th century, an individual with a high school diploma could essentially work as a banking professional and rise to the ranks of a branch manager or to even branch president. However, the quest for further education, the industrial revolution and the subsequent surge in national population in the US in the mid-20th century resulted in a professional transposition. In the process, the bachelor’s degree supplanted the standing of high-school training, and the credentials required for certain positions increased. This occurrence continued up to the end of the last century; as a furtherance of this trend based on the same conditions, the early years of the 21st century saw the master’s degree displacing the bachelor's degree in some job-entry positions.\n\nFor instance, in the late 1980s, a bachelor's degree was the standard ticket to enter the profession of physical therapy. By the 1990s, a master's degree was expected. Today, a doctorate is becoming the norm. This change was due to the explosion of bachelor's degrees spurred by the rise in knowledge exchange—hinged on population growth and technological innovation. With the advent of globalization, recent years see the Ph.D. taking over the role of the master's degree—especially professional degrees. Universities are currently reporting significant renewed interest in their graduate programs, with a particular focus on Ph.D. study, as candidates consider retraining or adding new skills to their resumes that will benefit them if the economic situation improves. What once was considered to be specific training for the academic profession and open to a minor assemblage of individuals absorbed in research has become a benchmark for some job-entry positions. This change is forcing individuals to push for more advanced degrees to be considered for some positions.\n\nThe creeping-credentials phenomenon has resulted in the growth in the higher-education industry, with institutions expanding their offerings beyond the traditional graduate degrees. Offerings now include increasingly narrow, job-specific training courses. Degrees aimed at working professionals often come with very high tuition pricing.\n\nAnother consequence of credential creep is the increased time spent in school, with the resulting deferment of career establishment.\n\n\"Academic inflation\", or \"education inflation,\" is the process of inflation of the minimum job requirement, and the simultaneous growing number of higher educated persons. This results in an excess of college-educated individuals with lower degrees (associate and bachelor's degrees), and even higher qualifications (master's or doctorate degrees), competing for too few jobs that require these degrees, and devaluation of educational degrees. This condition causes an intensified race for higher qualification and education in a society where a bachelor's degree today is no longer sufficient to gain employment in the same jobs that may have only required a two- or four-year degree in former years. Inflation has occurred in the minimum degree requirements for jobs, to the level of master's degrees, Ph.D.s, and post-doctoral, even where advanced degree knowledge is not absolutely necessary to perform the required job.\n\nAcademic inflation occurs when university graduates take up work that was not formerly done by graduates of a certain level, and higher-degree holders continue to migrate to this particular occupation until it eventually becomes a field known as a \"graduate profession\" and the minimum job requirements have been inflated academically for low-level job tasks. It is an effect of overeducation.\n\nThe institutionalizing of professional education has resulted in fewer and fewer opportunities for young people to work their way up from artisan to professional status (e.g., as an engineer) by \"learning on the job\". Academic inflation leads employers to put more and more faith into certificates and diplomas awarded on the basis of other people's assessments.\n\nThe term \"academic inflation\" was popularized by Sir Ken Robinson in his TED Talk entitled \"Schools Kill Creativity\".\n\nAcademic inflation is similar to inflation of paper currencies where too much currency chases too few commodities.\n\nCredential inflation refers to the devaluation of educational or academic credentials over time and a corresponding decrease in the expected advantage given a degree holder in the job market. Credential inflation is thus similar to price inflation, and describes the declining value of earned certificates and degrees. Credential inflation has been recognized as an enduring trend over the past century in Western higher education, and is also known to have occurred in ancient China and Japan, and at Spanish universities of the 17th century.\nA good example of credential inflation is the decline in the value of the US high school diploma since the beginning of the 20th century, when it was held by less than 10 percent of the population. At the time, high school diplomas attested to middle-class respectability, and for many years even provided access to managerial level jobs. More recently, however, the high school diploma barely qualifies the graduate for manual or menial service work.\n\nOne indicator of credential inflation is the relative decline in the wage differential between those with college degrees and those with only high school diplomas. An additional indicator is the gap between the credentials requested by employers in job postings and the qualifications of those already in those occupations. A 2014 study in the United States found, for example, that 65% of job postings for executive secretaries and executive assistants now call for a bachelor's degree, but only 19% of those currently employed in these roles have a degree. Jobs that were open to high school graduates decades ago now routinely require higher education as well—without an appreciable change in required skills. In some cases, such as IT help desk roles, a study found there was little difference in advertised skill requirements between jobs requiring a college and those that do not.\n\nA predictable result of credential inflation is a glut of the credential markets and overschooling. It is estimated that 30 percent of the college graduates in 2005 will be forced into jobs that do not require a degree. M.B.A. or M.A. holders may end up working as store clerks or servers.\n\nThe causes of credential inflation are controversial, but it is generally thought to be the result of a strong push for education in the 1980s and 90's along with increased technological access to higher education. This has resulted in entry level jobs requesting a bachelor's (or higher) degree when they were once open to high school graduates. Potential sources of credential inflation include: degree requirements by employers, self-interest of individuals and families, increased standards of living which allow for additional years of education, high unemployment which spurs the need for competitive advantages in the job market, cultural pushes for being educated, and the availability of taxpayer-funded and guaranteed federal student loans which allow many more individuals to obtain degrees and/or credentials than could otherwise afford to do so.\n\nIn particular, the internal dynamics of credential inflation threaten higher education initiatives around the world because credential inflation appears to operate independently of market demand for credentials. Credential markets themselves, as described by signalling theory, use earned degrees as a measure of ability in screening potential employees. This is because employers take it for granted that degrees are positively correlated with greater ability. (See Michael Spence's job-market signalling model.)\n\nAlthough credential inflation has been acknowledged for years by institutions of higher education, a clear solution or consensus on how to address the problem has not yet been found or agreed upon. Academic institutions are generally expected to provide education to qualified applicants who desire admission, and many economists and politicians find the idea of government regulations on private hiring practices to be a large overstep in combating the issue.\n\nThe push for more Americans to get a higher education rests on the idea that those without a college degree are less employable. Many critics of higher education, in turn, complain that a surplus of college graduates has produced an \"employer's market\". A wide range of occupations have seen their academic requirements raised to the next level, even if only to reduce the number of applications that personnel departments must consider.\n\nCredential inflation is a controversial topic. There is very little consensus on how, or if, this type of inflation impacts higher education, the job market, and salaries. Some common concerns discussed in this topic are:\n\n\nGrade inflation is the tendency to award progressively higher academic grades for work that would have received lower grades in the past. It is frequently discussed in relation to education in the United States, and to GCSEs and A levels in England and Wales. It is also an issue in Canada and many other nations, especially Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\nPrinceton University took a rare stand against grade inflation in 2004, and publicly announced a policy designed to curb it. The policy states that \"A\" grades should account for less than 35% of the grades for undergraduate courses, and less than 55% of grades for junior and senior independent work. The standard by which the grading record of each department or program is evaluated is the percentage of \"A\" grades given over the previous three years.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhttp://www.asanet.org/images/members/docs/pdf/special/soe/soe_extra_2001_Article_2_Brown.pdf\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40662291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40662291", "title": "Dege &amp; Skinner", "text": "Dege &amp; Skinner\n\nDege & Skinner are a bespoke gentleman's tailor located at 10 Savile Row, London. Founded in 1865, they are one of the oldest, continually operated bespoke tailoring companies in the world. They possess the unique distinction of having the Row's first and only on-site, bespoke shirt service.\n\nThe company has obtained three royal warrants of appointment, Queen Elizabeth II (1984), the Sultan of Oman (1981) and the King of Bahrain (2003). In addition, the firm provides bespoke and military tailoring, with almost half of their clients residing overseas.\n\nDege & Skinner business was originally based on catering for the needs of the British Army and the Royal Navy, and hence by association the British Royal family.\n\nDuring the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953, Dege & Skinner dressed the Peers of the Realm at Westminster Abbey.\n\n"}
{"id": "469691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469691", "title": "Destiny", "text": "Destiny\n\nDestiny, sometimes referred to as fate (from Latin \"fatum\" – destiny), is a predetermined course of events. It may be conceived as a predetermined future, whether in general or of an individual.\n\nAlthough often used interchangeably, the words \"fate\" and \"destiny\" have distinct connotations.\n\n\nFortune differs terminologically from destiny and fate in that it has more to do with specific occurrences and outcomes, whereas destiny ultimately revolves around death rather than the events of one’s life. In Hellenistic civilization, the chaotic and unforeseeable turns of chance gave increasing prominence to a previously less notable goddess, Tyche (literally \"Luck\"), who embodied the good fortune of a city and all whose lives depended on its security and prosperity, two good qualities of life that appeared to be out of human reach. The Roman image of Fortuna, with the wheel she blindly turned, was retained by Christian writers, revived strongly in the Renaissance and survives in some forms today.\n\nPhilosophy on the concepts of destiny and fate has existed since the Hellenistic period with groups such as the Stoics and the Epicureans.\n\nThe Stoics believed that human decisions and actions ultimately went according to a divine plan devised by a god. They claimed that although humans theoretically have free will, their souls and the circumstances under which they live are all part of the universal network of fate.\n\nThe Epicureans challenged the Stoic beliefs by denying the existence of this divine fate. They believed that a human's actions were voluntary so long as they were rational.\n\nIn daily language, \"destiny\" and \"fate\" are synonymous, but with regard to 19th-century philosophy, the words gained inherently different meanings.\n\nFor Arthur Schopenhauer, destiny was just a manifestation of the Will to Live, which can be at the same time living fate and choice of overrunning fate, by means of the Art, of the Morality and of the Ascesis.\n\nFor Friedrich Nietzsche, destiny keeps the form of \"Amor fati\" (Love of Fate) through the important element of Nietzsche's philosophy, the \"will to power\" (der \"Wille zur Macht\"), the basis of human behavior, influenced by the Will to Live of Schopenhauer. But this concept may have even other senses, although he, in various places, saw the will to power as a strong element for adaptation or survival in a better way. Nietzsche eventually transformed the idea of matter as centers of force into matter as centers of will to power as humanity's destiny to face with \"amor fati\". The expression \"Amor fati\" is used repeatedly by Nietzsche as acceptation-choice of the \"fate\", but in such way it becomes even another thing, precisely a \"choice\" destiny.\n\nDeterminism is a philosophical concept often confused with fate, it can be defined as the notion that all intents/actions are \"causally\" determined by the culminations of an agent's existing circumstances; simply put, everything that happens is determined by things that have already happened. Determinism differs from fate in that it is never conceived as being a spiritual, religious, nor astrological notion; fate is typically thought of as being \"given\" or \"decreed\" while determinism is \"caused.\" Influential philosophers like Robert Kane (philosopher), Thomas Nagel, Roderick Chisholm, and A.J. Ayer have written about this notion.\n\nThe idea of a god controlled destiny plays an important role in numerous religions.\n\n\nHistorically and globally, fate has played a large role in several literary works. In ancient Greece, many legends and tales teach the futility of trying to outmaneuver an inexorable fate that has been correctly predicted. This portrayal of fate is present in works such as \"Oedipus Rex\" (427 BCE), the \"Iliad,\" the \"Odyssey\" (800 BCE), and \"Theogony.\" Many ancient Chinese works have also portrayed the concept of fate, most notably the \"Liezi,\" \"Mengzi,\" and the \"Zhuangzi.\" Similarly, and in Italy, the Spanish Duque de Rivas' play that Verdi transformed into \"La Forza del Destino\" (\"The Force of Destiny\") includes notions of fate. In England, fate has played a notable literary role in Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\" (1606), Thomas Hardy's \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\" (1891), Samuel Beckett's \"Endgame\" (1957), and W.W Jacobs' popular short story \"The Monkey's Paw\" (1902). In America, Thornton Wilder's book \"The Bridge of San Luis Rey\" (1927) portrays the conception of fate. In Germany, fate is a recurring theme in the literature of Hermann Hesse (1877–1962), including \"Siddharta\" (1922) and his magnum opus, \"Das Glasperlenspiel,\" also published as \"The Glass Bead Game\" (1943). And by Hollywood through such characters as Neo in \"The Matrix\". The common theme of these works involves a protagonist who cannot escape their destiny, however hard they try.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "256749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=256749", "title": "Enlightened absolutism", "text": "Enlightened absolutism\n\nEnlightened absolutism (also called enlightened despotism or benevolent despotism) refers to the conduct and policies of European absolute monarchs during the 18th and 19th centuries who were influenced by the ideas of the Enlightenment, espousing them to enhance their power. The concept originated during the Enlightenment period in the 18th and into the early 19th centuries.\n\nAn enlightened despot is a non-democratic or authoritarian leader who exercises their political power for the benefit of the people, rather than exclusively for themselves or elites.\n\nEnlightened despots distinguished themselves from ordinary despots by claiming to rule for their subjects' well-being. They may focus government priorities on healthcare, education, nonviolent population control, or physical infrastructure. The leader may profess a commitment to peaceful relations and/or allow some democratic decision-making, such as public referenda, but would not propose reforms that undermined their sovereignty or disrupted the social order; \"Despotism is a legitimate mode of government in dealing with barbarians, provided the end be their improvement.\"\n\nEnlightened despots' beliefs about royal power were typically similar to those of regular despots, both believing that they were destined to rule. Enlightened rulers may have played a part in the abolition of serfdom in Europe.\n\nThe enlightened despot Emperor Joseph II of Austria summarized, \"Everything for the people, nothing by the people\".\n\nEnlightened absolutism is the theme of an essay by Frederick the Great, who ruled Prussia from 1740 to 1786, defending this system of government. When the prominent French Enlightenment philosopher Voltaire fell out of favor in France, he eagerly accepted Frederick's invitation to live at his palace. He believed that an enlightened monarchy was the only real way for society to advance. Frederick was an enthusiast of French ideas. Frederick explained: \"My principal occupation is to combat ignorance and prejudice ... to enlighten minds, cultivate morality, and to make people as happy as it suits human nature, and as the means at my disposal permit.\"\n\nEnlightened absolutists held that royal power emanated not from divine right but from a social contract whereby a despot was entrusted with the power to govern through a social contract in lieu of any other governments. The monarchs of enlightened absolutism strengthened their authority by improving the lives of their subjects. This philosophy implied that the sovereign knew that the interests of his or her subjects better than they themselves did. The monarch taking responsibility for the subjects precluded their political participation.\n\nThe difference between an absolutist and an \"enlightened\" absolutist is based on a broad analysis of the degree to which they embraced the Age of Enlightenment. For example, although Empress Catherine II of Russia entirely rejected the concept of the social contract, she embraced many ideas of the Enlightenment, being one of the great patrons of the arts in Imperial Russia and incorporating many ideas of Enlightenment philosophers, especially Montesquieu, in her Nakaz, which was intended to revise Russian law.\n\nHowever, historians debate the actual implementation of enlightened absolutism. They distinguish between the \"enlightenment\" of the ruler personally, versus that of his or her regime. For example, Frederick the Great was tutored in the ideas of the French Enlightenment in his youth, and maintained those ideas in his private life as an adult, but in many ways was unable or unwilling to effect enlightened reforms in practice. Other rulers such as the Marquis of Pombal, prime minister of Portugal, used the ideas and practices of the Enlightenment not only to achieve reforms but also to enhance autocracy, crush opposition, suppress criticism, advance colonial economic exploitation, and consolidate personal control and profit.\n\nThe concept of enlightened absolutism was formally described by the German historian Wilhelm Roscher in 1847 and remains controversial among scholars.\n\nThe most important political reforms these monarchs instituted in their kingdoms included:\n\nGovernmental responses to the Age of Enlightenment varied widely. In several nations with powerful rulers, called \"enlightened despots\" by historians, leaders of the Enlightenment were welcomed at Court and helped design laws and programs to reform the system, typically to build stronger national states.\n\nIn France, the government's posture was one of hostility and philosophers fought government censorship. The British government generally ignored the Enlightenment's leaders. Charles III, King of Spain from 1759 to 1788, sought to rescue his empire from decay through ambitious reforms such as weakening the Church and its monasteries, promoting science and university research, facilitating trade and commerce, modernizing agriculture, and avoiding war. Spain relapsed into former patterns after his death.\n\nEmpress Catherine the Great, who ruled Russia from 1762 to 1796, had an enthusiastic response toward Enlightenment ideas. Emperor Joseph II, ruler of Austria from 1780 to 1790, was over-enthusiastic, announcing so many reforms with so little support that revolts broke out and his regime reverted to a comedy of errors.\n\nSenior ministers, such as the Marquis of Pombal, who was Joseph I of Portugal's Secretary of State, and Struensee in Denmark, did govern amicably with Enlightenment ideals.\n\n\nLeaders such as Napoleon Bonaparte, Fidel Castro, Benito Mussolini (at least until the war against Ethiopia), António Salazar, Joseph Stalin, Isaias Afwerki, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, Lee Kuan Yew, Mao Zedong, Pervez Musharraf and the Medici dynasty adopted the title. Long-seated dictators are more likely to be regarded as enlightened because they acknowledge public interest in order to remain in power and to be regarded as legitimate.\n\nIn Spanish the word \"dictablanda\" is sometimes used for a dictatorship that preserves some of the liberties and mechanisms of democracy.\n\nXuezhi Guo contrasts the Confucian ideal of a \"humane ruler\" (renjun) with the ideal of Chinese Legalists, who he says \"intended to create a truly 'enlightened ruler' (\"mingjun\") who is able to effectively rule the masses and control his bureaucracy\"; this ruler would be a \"skilful manipulator and successful politician who uses means or 'technique' in achieving self-protection and political control.\" Guo quotes Benjamin I. Schwartz as describing the features of \"a truly Legalist 'enlightened ruler:He must be anything but an arbitrary despot if one means by a despot a tyrant who follows all his impulses, whims and passions. Once the systems which maintain the entire structure are in place, he must not interfere with their operation. He may use the entire system as a means to the achievement of his national and international ambitions, but to do so he must not disrupt it's impersonal workings. He must at all times be able to maintain an iron wall between his private life and public role. Concubines, friends, flatterers and charismatic saints must have no influence whatsoever on the course of policy, and he must never relax his suspicions of the motives of those who surround him.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7991247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7991247", "title": "Ethnopolitics", "text": "Ethnopolitics\n\nEthnopolitics, formerly known as Global Review of Ethnopolitics, is a peer-reviewed academic journal focusing on the intersection of ethnic groups and politics. It was established in the United Kingdom by the Political Studies Association's Specialist Group on Ethnopolitics. Its editors-in-chief are Karl Cordell and Stefan Wolff.\n\n\"Ethnopolitics\" is now published in collaboration with the Association for the Study of Nationalities.\n"}
{"id": "11543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11543", "title": "Firmin Abauzit", "text": "Firmin Abauzit\n\nFirmin Abauzit (November 11, 1679March 20, 1767) was a French scholar who worked on physics, theology and philosophy, and served as librarian in Geneva (Republic of Geneva) during his final 40 years. Abauzit is also notable for proofreading or correcting the writings of Isaac Newton and other scholars.\n\nFirmin Abauzit was born of Huguenot parents November 11, 1679 at Uzès, in Languedoc. His father died when he was but two years of age; and when, on the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685, the authorities took steps to have him educated in the Roman Catholic faith, his mother contrived his escape.\n\nFor two years his brother and he lived as fugitives in the mountains of the Cévennes, but they at last reached Geneva, where their mother afterwards joined them on escaping from the imprisonment in which she was held from the time of their flight. Abauzit at an early age acquired great proficiency in languages, physics, and theology.\n\nIn 1698, he traveled to Germany, then to Holland, where he became acquainted with Pierre Bayle, Pierre Jurieu and Jacques Basnage. Proceeding to England, he was introduced to Sir Isaac Newton, who found in him one of the earliest defenders, against Castel of his discoveries. Newton corrected in the second edition of his \"Principia\" an error pointed out by Abauzit, and, when sending him the \"Commercium Epistolicum,\" said, \"You are well worthy to judge between Gottfried Leibniz and me.\"\n\nThe reputation of Abauzit induced William III to request him to settle in England, but he did not accept the king's offer, preferring to return to Geneva.\nThere, from 1715 he rendered valuable assistance to a society that had been formed for translating the New Testament into French. He declined the offer of the chair of philosophy at the University of Geneva in 1723. He assisted in the French language New Testament in 1726. In 1727, he was granted citizenship in Geneva, and he accepted the office of honorary librarian to Geneva, the city of his adoption. It was while he was in Geneva in his later years that he authored many of his works. Here also was the city of his death past the age of 87, on March 20, 1767.\n\nAbauzit was a man of great learning and of wonderful versatility. Whatever chanced to be discussed, it used to be said of Abauzit that he seemed to have made it a subject of particular study. Rousseau, who was jealously sparing of his praises, addressed to him, in his \"Julie, ou la nouvelle Héloïse\", a fine panegyric; and when a stranger flatteringly told Voltaire he had come to see a great man, the philosopher asked him if he had seen Abauzit. Among his acquaintances, Abauzit claimed Rousseau, Voltaire, Newton, and Bayle.\n\nLittle remains of the labours of this intellectual giant, his heirs having, it is said, destroyed the papers that came into their possession, because their own religious opinions were different. A few theological, archaeological, and astronomical articles from his pen appeared in the \"Journal helvétique\" and elsewhere, and he contributed several papers to Rousseau's \"Dictionnaire de musique\" (1767). He wrote a work throwing doubt on the canonical authority of the Apocalypse, which called forth a reply from Dr Leonard Twells, and was published in Denis Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\". He also edited and made valuable additions to Jacob Spon's \"Histoire de la république de Genève\". A collection of his writings was published at Geneva in 1770 (\"Œuvres de feu M. Abauzit\"), and another at London in 1773 (\"Œuvres diverses de M. Abauzit\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "418766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418766", "title": "Flag of Jordan", "text": "Flag of Jordan\n\nThe flag of Jordan, officially adopted on 18 April 1928, is based on the flag of the Arab Revolt against the Ottoman Empire during World War I. The flag consists of horizontal black, white, and green bands that are connected by a red chevron. The colors stand are the Pan-Arab Colors, representing the Abbasid (black band), Umayyad (white band), and Fatimid (green band) caliphates. The red chevron is for the Hashemite dynasty, and the Arab Revolt.\n\nIn addition to the bands and chevron, a white star with seven points is featured on the hoist side of the red chevron. The star stands for the unity of the Arab people. Its seven-pointed star refers to the seven hills on which Amman, the capital, was built. The seven points represent faith in one God, humanity, humility, national spirit, virtue, social justice, and aspiration.\n\n"}
{"id": "36196531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36196531", "title": "Functional sentence perspective", "text": "Functional sentence perspective\n\nIn linguistics, Functional Sentence Perspective (FSP) is a theory describing the information structure of the sentence and language communication in general. It has been developed in the tradition of the Prague School of Functional and Structural Linguistics together with its sister theory, Topic-Focus Articulation.\n\nThe key concepts of FSP were laid down by Jan Firbas in the mid-1950s on the basis of the linguistic work of Vilém Mathesius, especially his idea of functional syntax in linguistic characterology of language.\n\nThe term Functional Sentence Perspective was created by Jan Firbas as a more convenient English equivalent of Mathesius’ Czech term :\n\nWithin Czech linguistics the Czech calque of the English term Functional Sentence Perspective funkční větná perspektiva is nowadays used to refer to the approach stemming from the writings of Jan Firbas and his followers, while the original Mathesius’ Czech term aktuální členění větné tends to be associated with the group of linguists developing the Topic-Focus Articulation, i.e. Petr Sgall, Eva Hajičová, Jarmila Panevová and their disciples, despite the fact that both terms are still sometimes used interchangeably in some Czech contributions to the topic of information structure of language. (Cf. Karlík - Nekula - Pleskalová (2002))\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1348347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1348347", "title": "Funding of science", "text": "Funding of science\n\nResearch funding is a term generally covering any funding for scientific research, in the areas of both \"hard\" science and technology and social science. The term often connotes funding obtained through a competitive process, in which potential research projects are evaluated and only the most promising receive funding. Such processes, which are run by government, corporations or foundations, allocate scarce funds.\n\nMost research funding comes from two major sources, corporations (through research and development departments) and government (primarily carried out through universities and specialized government agencies; often known as \"research councils\"). Some small amounts of scientific research are carried out (or funded) by charitable foundations, especially in relation to developing cures for diseases such as cancer, malaria and AIDS.\n\nAccording to OECD, more than 60% of research and development in scientific and technical fields is carried out by industries, and 20% and 10% respectively by universities and government.\n\nComparatively, in countries with less GDP, such as Portugal and Mexico the industry contribution is significantly lower. The US government spends more than other countries on military R&D, although the proportion has fallen from around 30% in the 1980s to under 20. Government funding for medical research amounts to approximately 36% in the U.S. The government funding proportion in certain industries is higher, and it dominates research in social science and humanities. Similarly, with some exceptions (e.g. biotechnology) government provides the bulk of the funds for \"basic\" scientific research. In commercial research and development, all but the most research-oriented corporations focus more heavily on near-term commercialization possibilities rather than \"blue-sky\" ideas or technologies (such as nuclear fusion).\n\nIn the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, as the pace of technological progress increased before and during the industrial revolution, most scientific and technological research was carried out by individual inventors using their own funds. A system of patents was developed to allow inventors a period of time (often twenty years) to commercialise their inventions and recoup a profit, although in practice many found this difficult. The talents of an inventor are not those of a businessman, and there are many examples of inventors (e.g. Charles Goodyear) making rather little money from their work whilst others were able to market it.\n\nIn the twentieth century, scientific and technological research became increasingly systematised, as corporations developed, and discovered that continuous investment in research and development could be a key element of success in a competitive strategy. It remained the case, however, that imitation by competitors - circumventing or simply flouting patents, especially those registered abroad - was often just as successful a strategy for companies focused on innovation in matters of organisation and production technique, or even in marketing. A classic example is that of Wilkinson Sword and Gillette in the disposable razor market, where the former has typically had the technological edge, and the latter the commercial one.\n\nDifferent countries spend vastly different amounts on research, in both absolute and relative terms. For instance, South Korea and Israel spend more than 4% of their GDP on research while many Arabic countries spend less than 1% (e.g. Saudi Arabia 0.25%).\n\nThe US spent $456.1 billion for research and development (R&D) in 2013, the most recent year for which such figures are available, according to the National Science Foundation. The private sector accounted for $322.5 billion, or 71%, of total national expenditures, with universities and colleges spending $64.7 billion, or 14%, in second place.\n\nSwitzerland spent CHF 22 billion for R&D in 2015 with an increase of 10.5% compared with 2012 when the last survey was conducted. In relative terms, this represents 3.4% of the country's GDP. R&D activities are carried out by nearly 125,000 individuals, mostly in the private sector (71%) and higher education institutions (27%).\n\nOften scientists apply for research funding which a granting agency may (or may not) approve to financially support. These \"grants\" require a lengthy process as the granting agency can inquire about the researcher(s)'s background, the facilities used, the equipment needed, the time involved, and the overall potential of the scientific outcome. The process of grant writing and grant proposing is a somewhat delicate process for both the grantor and the grantee: the grantors want to choose the research that best fits their scientific principles, and the individual grantees want to apply for research in which they have the best chances but also in which they can build a body of work towards future scientific endeavors.\n\nThe Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council in the United Kingdom has devised an alternative method of fund-distribution: the sandpit.\n\nMost universities have research administration offices to facilitate the interaction between the researcher and the granting agency.\n\"Research administration is all about service—service to our faculty, to our academic units, to the institution, and to our sponsors. To be of service, we first have to know what our customers want and then determine whether or not we are meeting those needs and expectations.\"\n\nIn the United States of America, the National Council of University Research Administrators (NCURA) serves its members and advances the field of research administration through education and professional development programs, the sharing of knowledge and experience, and by fostering a professional, collegial, and respected community.\n\nGovernment-funded research can either be carried out by the government itself, or through grants to researchers outside the government. The bodies providing public funding are often referred to as \"research councils\".\n\nCritics of basic research are concerned that research funding for the sake of knowledge itself does not contribute to a great return. However, scientific innovations often foreshadow or inspire further ideas unintentionally. For example, NASA's quest to put a man on the moon inspired them to develop better sound recording and reading technologies. NASA's research was furthered by the music industry, who used it to develop audio cassettes. Audio cassettes, being smaller and able to store more music, quickly dominated the music industry and increased the availability of music.\n\nAn additional distinction of government-sponsored research is that the government does not make a claim to the intellectual property, whereas private research-funding bodies sometimes claim ownership of the intellectual property that they are paying to have developed. Consequently, government-sponsored research more often allows the individual discoverer to file intellectual property claims over their own work.\n\nResearch councils are (usually public) bodies that provide research funding in the form of research grants or scholarships. These include arts councils and research councils for the funding of science.\n\nAn incomplete list of national and international pan-disciplinary public research councils:\nPrivate funding for research comes from philanthropists, crowd-funding, private companies, non-profit foundations, and professional organizations. Philanthropists and foundations have been known to pour millions of dollars into a wide variety of scientific investigations, including basic research discovery, disease cures, particle physics, astronomy, marine science, and the environment. Many large technology companies spend billions of dollars on research and development each year to gain an innovative advantage over their competitors, though only about 42% of this funding goes towards projects that are considered substantially new, or capable of yielding radical breakthroughs. New scientific start-up companies initially seek funding from crowd-funding organizations, venture capitalists, and angel investors, gathering preliminary results using rented facilities, but aim to eventually become self-sufficient.\n\nExamples of companies that fund basic research include IBM (high temperature superconductivity was discovered by IBM sponsored basic experimental research in 1986), L'Oreal (which created the L'Oreal-Unesco prize for women scientists and finances internships), AXA (which launched a Research Fund in 2008 and finances Academic Institutions such as advanced fundamental mathematics French Foundation IHES).\n\nA company may share resources with a materials science society to gain proprietary knowledge or trained workers.\n\nIn academic contexts, hard money may refer to funding received from a government or other entity at regular intervals, thus providing a steady inflow of financial resources to the beneficiary. The antonym, soft money, refers to funding provided only through competitive research grants and the writing of grant proposals.\n\nHard money is usually issued by the government for the advancement of certain projects or for the benefit of specific agencies. Community healthcare, for instance, may be supported by the government by providing hard money. Since funds are disbursed regularly and continuously, the offices in charge of such projects are able to achieve their objectives more effectively than if they had been issued one-time grants.\n\nIndividual jobs at a research institute may be classified as \"hard-money positions\" or \"soft-money positions\"; the former are expected to provide job security because their funding is secure in the long term, whereas individual \"soft-money\" positions may come and go with fluctuations in the number of grants awarded to the institution.\n\nThe source of funding may introduce conscious or unconscious biases into a researcher's work. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest (COIs) is used by biomedical journals to guarantee credibility and transparency of the scientific process. Conflict of interest disclosure, however, is not systematically nor consistently dealt with by journals which publish scientific research results. When research is funded by the same agency that can be expected to gain from a favorable outcome there is a potential for biased results and research shows that results are indeed more favorable than would be expected from a more objective view of the evidence. A 2003 systematic review studied the scope and impact of industry sponsorship in biomedical research. The researchers found financial relationships among industry, scientific investigators, and academic institutions widespread. Results showed a statistically significant association between industry sponsorship and pro-industry conclusions and concluded that \"Conflicts of interest arising from these ties can influence biomedical research in important ways\". A British study found that a majority of the members on national and food policy committees receive funding from food companies.\n\nIn an effort to cut costs, the pharmaceutical industry has turned to the use of private, nonacademic research groups (i.e., contract research organizations [CROs]) which can do the work for less money than academic investigators. In 2001 CROs came under criticism when the editors of 12 major scientific journals issued a joint editorial, published in each journal, on the control over clinical trials exerted by sponsors, particularly targeting the use of contracts which allow sponsors to review the studies prior to publication and withhold publication of any studies in which their product did poorly. They further criticized the trial methodology stating that researchers are frequently restricted from contributing to the trial design, accessing the raw data, and interpreting the results.\n\nThe Cochrane Collaboration, a worldwide group that aims to provide compiled scientific evidence to aid well informed health care decisions, conducts systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials of health care interventions and tries to disseminate the results and conclusions derived from them. A few more recent reviews have also studied the results of non-randomized, observational studies. The systematic reviews are published in the Cochrane Library. A 2011 study done to disclose possible conflicts of interests [COI] in underlying research studies used for medical meta-analyses reviewed 29 meta-analyses and found that COIs in the studies underlying the meta-analyses were rarely disclosed. The 29 meta-analyses reviewed an aggregate of 509 randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Of these, 318 RCTs reported funding sources with 219 (69%) industry funded. 132 of the 509 RCTs reported author COI disclosures, with 91 studies (69%) disclosing industry financial ties with one or more authors. The information was, however, seldom reflected in the meta-analyses. Only two (7%) reported RCT funding sources and none reported RCT author-industry ties. The authors concluded \"without acknowledgement of COI due to industry funding or author industry financial ties from RCTs included in meta-analyses, readers' understanding and appraisal of the evidence from the meta-analysis may be compromised.\"\n\nIn 2003 researchers looked at the association between authors' published positions on the safety and efficacy in assisting with weight loss of olestra, a fat substitute manufactured by the Procter & Gamble (P&G), and their financial relationships with the food and beverage industry. They found that supportive authors were significantly more likely than critical or neutral authors to have financial relationships with P&G and all authors disclosing an affiliation with P&G were supportive. The authors of the study concluded: \"Because authors' published opinions were associated with their financial relationships, obtaining noncommercial funding may be more essential to maintaining objectivity than disclosing personal financial interests.\"\n\nA 2005 study in the journal Nature surveyed 3247 US researchers who were all publicly funded (by the National Institutes of Health). Out of the scientists questioned, 15.5% admitted to altering design, methodology or results of their studies due to pressure of an external funding source.\n\nA theoretical model has been established whose simulations imply that peer review and over-competitive research funding foster mainstream opinion to monopoly.\n\nMost funding agencies mandate efficient use of their funds, that is, they want to maximize outcome for their money spent. Outcome can be measured by publication output, citation impact, number of patents, number of PhDs awarded etc. Another question is how to allocate funds to different disciplines, institutions, or researchers. A recent study by Wayne Walsh found that “prestigious institutions had on average 65% higher grant application success rates and 50% larger award sizes, whereas less-prestigious institutions produced 65% more publications and had a 35% higher citation impact per dollar of funding.”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1877526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877526", "title": "Godiva's Hymn", "text": "Godiva's Hymn\n\n\"Godiva's Hymn\", \"Engineer's Hymn\" or \"Engineers' Drinking Song\" is a traditional drinking song for engineers. Versions of it have been associated with the Army Corps of Engineers, as well as MIT and various universities, and is now often performed by the MIT a cappella group The Chorallaries. In many university engineering faculties, military engineering corps and other engineering organizations and societies, Lady Godiva is a school icon or mascot.\n\nGodiva's Hymn is sung either to the tune of \"The Battle Hymn of the Republic\" or \"The Son of a Gambolier\". Near Christmas, it is a tradition of the Lady Godiva Memorial Bnad (sic) of the University of Toronto to sing Godiva's Hymn to the tune of Good King Wenceslaus.\n\nOne Version of the Chorus is as follows:\n\n<poem>We are We are We are We are--\nWe are the engineers--\nWe can We can We can We can--\nDemolish forty beers--\nDrink rum Drink rum Drink rum all day--\nand come along with us for--\nWe don't give a damn for any old man--\nWho don't give a damn for us--</poem>\n\nOne of Godiva's Verses:\n\n<poem>Godiva was a lady who through Coventry did ride--\nTo show to all the villagers her fine and lily-white hide--\nThe most observant villager, an engineer of course--\nWas the only one to notice that Godiva rode a horse--</poem>\n\nA bawdy parody of the engineer's song, known as Round and Round Went the Great Big Wheel, was famously recorded during the 1940s by Oscar Brand. It later served as the inspiration for an episode of Dad's Army. \n"}
{"id": "2079855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2079855", "title": "Groundskeeping", "text": "Groundskeeping\n\nGroundskeeping is the activity of tending an area of land for aesthetic or functional purposes; typically in an institutional setting. It includes mowing grass, trimming hedges, pulling weeds, planting flowers, etc. The U.S. Department of Labor estimated that more than 900,000 workers are employed in the landscape and groundskeeping services industry in the United States in 2006. Of these over 300,000 workers were groundskeepers for golf courses, schools, resorts, and public parks. Compare gardener.\n\nA groundskeeper is a person who maintains landscaping, gardens or sporting venues (and their vegetation where appropriate) for appearance and functionality. In Britain the word groundsman (occasionally groundswoman if appropriate) or park-keeper is used much more commonly.\nIn Australia, the word curator is often used for a person undertaking this job, especially those involving cricket pitches. At university campuses, groundskeepers are often called horticulturists. The equivalent on a golf course is a greenskeeper.\n\nThe U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) estimated in May 2015 that statistical group 37-3011 \"Landscaping and Groundskeeping Workers\" numbered 895,600 with a median annual wage of $25,030. The BLS describes the functions of this group as \"Workers typically perform a variety of tasks, which may include any combination of the following: sod laying, mowing, trimming, planting, watering, fertilizing, digging, raking, sprinkler installation, and installation of mortarless segmental concrete masonry wall units\".\n\nA groundskeeper's job requires a wide range of knowledge of horticulture, pest control, and weed abatement. As many institutions (especially schools) are moving away from the use of chemical pesticides and toward integrated pest management the experience, knowledge and scholastic requirements of top groundskeepers are increasing. While groundskeepers usually follow a site plan created by a landscape architect, there can be many opportunities for creativity in detailed design and presentation.\n\nGroundskeeping equipment comprise implements and vehicles used in groundskeeping, including:\n\n\nPollution from gas-powered groundskeeping equipment is a significant source of air pollution. US emission standards specifically limit emissions from small engines. Electric models produce no emissions at the point of use, but may shift pollution to power plants. Emissions may still be reduced by the use of renewable energy in grid generation, or because central power plants generally must have stricter emissions control equipment installed.\n\nGroundskeepers have appeared occasionally as minor characters in fiction and moving images. They are usually presented as comic or peculiar characters, often exhibiting a compulsive or obsessive personality defect.\n\nSome examples of fictional groundskeepers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1612686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612686", "title": "Halloween: Resurrection", "text": "Halloween: Resurrection\n\nHalloween: Resurrection is a 2002 American slasher film directed by Rick Rosenthal, who had also directed \"Halloween II\" in 1981. Larry Brand and Sean Hood devised the screenplay. The film stars Busta Rhymes, Bianca Kajlich, Thomas Ian Nicholas, Ryan Merriman, Sean Patrick Thomas, Katee Sackhoff, Daisy McCrackin, Luke Kirby and Tyra Banks, with Jamie Lee Curtis reprising her role as Laurie Strode. The eighth installment in the \"Halloween\" series, it follows Michael Myers continuing his murderous rampage in his hometown of Haddonfield, when his old, derelict childhood home is used for a live internet horror show.\n\n\"Halloween: Resurrection\" was released on July 12, 2002, to largely negative reviews, receiving an 11% score on Rotten Tomatoes, with many considering it to be an unnecessary sequel to \"\". Despite heavy criticism, \"Resurrection\" was a minor box office success, earning $37.7 million. Although more sequels were planned to follow \"Resurrection\", the series was eventually rebooted with Rob Zombie's \"Halloween\".\n\nOn October 31, 2001, three years after Laurie Strode accidentally killed a paramedic with whom her brother Michael Myers had swapped clothes, a guilt-ridden Laurie is an inmate at the Grace Andersen Sanitarium, where the nurses believe her to be catatonic. Instead, she is preparing for Michael's return. Laurie, pretending to be heavily medicated, prepares herself for the inevitable confrontation with her brother. Michael breaches the facility and kills two security guards, decapitating one and slitting the throat of the other as he makes his way to Laurie. After a chase, Laurie lures Michael on to the institution's rooftop. Although he falls into her trap, Laurie's fears of again killing the wrong person get the better of her; when she tries to remove his mask, Michael stabs her and throws her off the roof to her death. Michael then returns home to his abandoned childhood house. \n\nOne year later, college students Bill Woodlake, Donna Chang, Jen Danzig, Jim Morgan, Rudy Grimes, and Sara Moyer win a competition to appear on an Internet reality show \"Dangertainment\", directed by Freddie Harris and his friend, Nora Winston, in which they have to spend a night in Michael's home in order to figure out what led him to kill. On Halloween, equipped with head-cameras as well as the cameras throughout the house, they enter the house and separate into three groups. Sara's messaging friend Deckard watches the broadcast during a Halloween party. Meanwhile, Michael suddenly appears and kills Bill, and cameraman Charlie.\n\nDonna and Jim discover a wall filled with fake corpses and realize the show is a setup. Myers kills Donna; at the party, Deckard and other partygoers witness the murder, and only Deckard realizes that the murder was real. Freddie goes through the house dressed as Michael, but is secretly followed by the real Michael. Freddie, mistaking Michael for Charlie, tells him to go to the garage and help Nora out; he goes to the garage and promptly kills Nora. When Rudy, Sara, and Jim find Freddie in the Myers costume, he reveals the scheme to them and begs them to cooperate, telling them that he has set up a nice payday for all of them. When he leaves, the trio decides to gather up the other three and leave. Jen discovers the body of Bill and is decapitated by Myers right in front of Rudy, Sara, and Jim. Michael kills Jim and Rudy before chasing Sara upstairs.\n\nLocking herself in a bedroom, Sara begs for Deckard to help her. The other party goers realize that the deaths have not been staged. With Deckard messaging her Myers' location, Sara escapes and is found by Freddie. Myers finds and attacks them. Michael subdues Freddie and Sara makes her way to the tunnels. She finds an exit near Donna's body and emerges in the garage, where Myers finds her and starts an electrical fire in the garage. Freddie appears and begins fighting Michael hand-to-hand, before finally electrocuting him, and carrying Sara out of the burning garage. The Myers house burns to the ground, as Sara thanks Deckard for saving her life. Michael's body and the bodies of his victims are then taken to the morgue. As the medical examiner begins to inspect Michael's body, he awakens.\n\nThe writers of \"\" were left with a dilemma when Jamie Lee Curtis wanted to end the series, but Moustapha Akkad had a clause that legally wouldn't allow the writers to kill Michael Myers off. According to the Blu-ray released by Scream Factory, Curtis almost left the project just weeks before filming, until Kevin Williamson came up with the paramedic storyline and presented it to Akkad. Curtis finally agreed to be a part of the film under the condition that no footage hinting toward a sequel would be presented by the film, and that the audience would believe that Michael was dead until the inevitable sequel was announced. \"Resurrection\"s first shot of Michael in the paramedic uniform was filmed the day after \"H20\"s principal photography ended, according to \"H20\"s editor, Patrick Lussier.\n\nBoth Whitney Ransick and Dwight H. Little were approached to direct the film but turned it down. Later Rick Rosenthal, the director of \"Halloween II\", was chosen to direct. During the casting period of the film, producers considered Danielle Harris (who played Jamie Lloyd in \"\" and \"\") for a role in the film. In post-production, Bianca Kajlich's screams had to be dubbed because of her inability to scream. The film's trailer was delivered on April 26, 2002, with the release of \"Jason X\". Principal photography began in Vancouver, British Columbia on May 14, 2001 with the opening scene filmed at Riverview Hospital in Coquitlam, BC.\n\nFor this eighth installment of the series, Danny Lux created a genuine score relying upon the original instead of generating something new. He approaches the score with an electro-acoustic feel that dates back to the synthesizer scores of the '80s. The film also features several rap and hip-hop songs.\n\nIn direct contrast to general critical reviews of the film, some assessments of its sound and theme music have been praising. For example, critic Steve Newton complimented the film's \"creepy\" and \"unsettling\" revival of the original iconic theme, while criticising the film itself, as well as the rap tracks included.\n\n\"Halloween: Resurrection\" was released on July 12, 2002 in the US to moderate reception which did not change in its later international release. The film peaked at #4 on its opening weekend on US screens raking in $12,292,121 behind \"Reign of Fire\", \"Road to Perdition\" and \"Men in Black II\". It grossed $30,354,442 domestically and a further $7,310,413 for a moderate $37,664,855 worldwide gross.\n\nThe film received highly unfavorable reviews from several critics. It has garnered a score of 11% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 62 reviews, with the site's consensus being: \"The only thing this tired slasher flick may resurrect is nostalgia for when the genre was still fresh and scary.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 19 out of 100, based on 17 reviews, indicating “overwhelming dislike”. Lou Lumenick of the \"New York Post\" said, \"It's so devoid of joy and energy it makes even \"Jason X\" look positively Shakespearian by comparison.\" Dave Kehr of \"The New York Times\" said, \"Spectators will indeed sit open-mouthed before the screen, not screaming but yawning.\" Peter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" said, \"Every sequel you skip will be two hours gained. Consider this review life-affirming.\" Joe Leydon of \"Variety\" said, \"[Seems] even more uselessly redundant and shamelessly money-grubbing than most third-rate horror sequels.\" Glenn Lovell of the \"San Jose Mercury News\" was slightly more positive: \"No, it's not as single-minded as John Carpenter's original, but it's sure a lot smarter and more unnerving than the sequels.\"\n\nAudiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13794142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794142", "title": "Hindustani phonology", "text": "Hindustani phonology\n\nHindustani is the \"lingua franca\" of northern India and Pakistan, and through its two standardized registers, Hindi and Urdu, an official language of India and Pakistan. Phonological differences between the two standards are minimal.\n\nHindustani natively possesses a symmetrical ten-vowel system. The vowels are always short in length, while the vowels , , , , , , are always considered long, in addition to an eleventh vowel which is found in English loanwords (but see the details below).\n\nSchwa is a short vowel which vanishes to nothing at unstressed position. is often realized more open than mid , i.e. as near-open .\n\nThe open back vowel is transcribed in IPA by either or .\n\nAmong the close vowels, what in Sanskrit are thought to have been primarily distinctions of vowel length (that is and ), have become in Hindustani distinctions of quality, or length accompanied by quality (that is, and ). The historical opposition of length in the close vowels has been neutralized in word-final position, for example Sanskrit loans ( – 'energy') and ( – 'item') are and , not * and *.\n\nThe vowel represented graphically as – (romanized as ) has been variously transcribed as or . Among sources for this article, , pictured to the right, uses , while and use . Furthermore, an eleventh vowel is found in English loanwords, such as ('bat'). Hereafter, – (romanized as ) will be represented as to distinguish it from , the latter. Despite this, the Hindustani vowel system is quite similar to that of English, in contrast to the consonants.\n\nIn addition, occurs as a conditioned allophone of (schwa) in proximity to , if and only if the is surrounded on both sides by two schwas. and is realised as separate vowel. For example, in ( – 'to say'), the is surrounded on both sides by schwa, hence both the schwas will become fronted to short , giving the pronunciation . Syncopation of phonemic middle schwa can further occur to give . The fronting also occurs in word-final , presumably because a lone consonant carries an unpronounced schwa. Hence, ( – 'say!') becomes in actual pronunciation. However, the fronting of schwa does not occur in words with a schwa only on one side of the such as ( – 'a story') or ( – 'outside').\n\nThe vowel occurs in proximity to if the is surrounded by one of the sides by a schwa and on other side by a round vowel. It differs from the vowel in that it is a short vowel. For example, in the is surrounded on one side by a schwa and a round vowel on the other side. One or both of the schwas will become giving the pronunciation .\n\nAs in French and Portuguese, there are nasalized vowels in Hindustani. There is disagreement over the issue of the nature of nasalization (barring English-loaned which is never nasalized). presents four differing viewpoints:\n\n\nMasica supports this last view.\n\nHindustani has a core set of 28 consonants inherited from earlier Indo-Aryan. Supplementing these are 2 consonants that are internal developments in specific word-medial contexts, and 7 consonants originally found in loan words, whose expression is dependent on factors such as status (class, education, etc.) and cultural register (Modern Standard Hindi vs Urdu).\n\nMost native consonants may occur geminate (doubled in length; exceptions are ). Geminate consonants are always medial and preceded by one of the interior vowels (that is, , , or ). They all occur monomorphemically except , which occurs only in a few Sanskrit loans where a morpheme boundary could be posited in between, e.g. for ('without shame').\n\nFor the English speaker, a notable feature of the Hindustani consonants is that there is a four-way distinction of phonation among plosives, rather than the two-way distinction found in English. The phonations are:\n\n\nThe last is commonly called \"voiced aspirate\", though notes that,\n\"Evidence from experimental phonetics, however, has demonstrated that the two types of sounds involve two distinct types of voicing and release mechanisms. The series of so-called voice aspirates should now properly be considered to involve the voicing mechanism of murmur, in which the air flow passes through an aperture between the arytenoid cartilages, as opposed to passing between the ligamental vocal bands.\"\nThe murmured consonants are believed to be a reflex of murmured consonants in Proto-Indo-European, a phonation that is absent in all branches of the Indo-European family except Indo-Aryan and Armenian.\n\nStops in final position are not released; varies freely with , and can also be pronounced ; can surface as a trill (mostly in word-initial and syllable-final positions), and geminate is always a trill, e.g. ( – 'little') versus well-trilled ( – 'particle'), this happens in loanwords of Arabic and Persian origin. The palatal and velar nasals occur only in consonant clusters, where each nasal is followed by a homorganic stop, as an allophone of a nasal vowel followed by a stop, and in Sanskrit loanwords. There are murmured sonorants, , but these are considered to be consonant clusters with in the analysis adopted by .\n\nThe fricative in Hindustani is typically voiced (as ), especially when surrounded by vowels, but there is no phonemic difference between this voiceless fricative and its voiced counterpart (Hindustani's ancestor Sanskrit \"has\" such a phonemic distinction).\n\nHindustani also has a phonemic difference between the dental plosives and the so-called retroflex plosives. The dental plosives in Hindustani are laminal-denti alveolar as in Spanish, and the tongue-tip must be well in contact with the back of the upper front teeth. The retroflex series is not purely retroflex; it actually has an apico-postalveolar (also described as apico-pre-palatal) articulation, and sometimes in words such as ( – 'broken') it even becomes alveolar.\n\nIn some Indo-Aryan languages, the plosives and the flaps are allophones in complementary distribution, with the former occurring in initial, geminate and postnasal positions and the latter occurring in intervocalic and final positions. However, in Standard Hindi they contrast in similar positions, as in ( – 'bird') vs ( – 'fearless').\n\n and are allophones in Hindustani. These are distinct phonemes in English, but both are allophones of the phoneme in Hindustani (written in Hindi or in Urdu), especially in loanwords of Arabic and Persian origin. More specifically, they are \"conditional allophones\", i.e. rules apply on whether is pronounced as or depending on context. Native Hindi speakers pronounce as in ( – , 'vow') and in ( – 'food dish'), treating them as a single phoneme and without being aware of the allophonic distinctions, though these are apparent to native English speakers. The rule is that the consonant is pronounced as semivowel in onglide position, i.e. between an onset consonant and a following vowel.\n\nHowever, the allophone phenomenon becomes obvious when speakers switch languages. When speakers of other languages that have a distinction between and speak Hindustani, they might pronounce in ( – ) as , i.e. as instead of the correct . This results in an intelligibility problem because can easily be confused for ( ) , which means \"woman\" instead of \"vow\" in Hindustani. Similarly, Hindustani speakers might unconsciously apply their native allophony rules to English words, pronouncing \"war\" as or \"advance\" as , which can result in intelligibility problems with native English speakers.\n\nIn some situations, the allophony is non-conditional, i.e. the speaker can choose , or an intermediate sound based on personal habit and preference, and still be perfectly intelligible. This includes words such as \"advait\" ( – ) which can be pronounced equally correctly as or .\n\nLoanwords from Sanskrit reintroduced into formal Modern Standard Hindi. In casual speech it is usually replaced by . It does not occur initially and has a nasalized flap as a common allophone.\n\nLoanwords from Persian (including some words which Persian itself borrowed from Arabic or Turkish) introduced five consonants, . Being Persian in origin, these are seen as a defining feature of Urdu, although these sounds officially exist in Hindi and modified Devanagari characters are available to represent them. Among these, , also found in English and Portuguese loanwords, are now considered well-established in Hindi; indeed, appears to be encroaching upon and replacing even in native (non-Persian, non-English) Hindi words, as happened in Greek with phi. This to shift also occasionally occurs in Urdu.\n\nThe other three Persian loans, , are still considered to fall under the domain of Urdu, and are also used by many Hindi speakers; however, some Hindi speakers assimilate these sounds to respectively. The sibilant is found in loanwords from all sources (English, Persian, Sanskrit) and is well-established. The failure to maintain by some Hindi speakers (often non-urban speakers who confuse them with ) is considered nonstandard. Yet these same speakers, having a Sanskritic education, may hyperformally uphold and . In contrast, for native speakers of Urdu, the maintenance of is not commensurate with education and sophistication, but is characteristic of all social levels.The sibliant is very rare and is found in loanwords from Persian and English and is considered to fall under the domain of Urdu and although it is officially present in Hindi, many speakers of Hindi assimilate it to or .\n\nBeing the main sources from which Hindustani draws its higher, learned terms– English, Sanskrit, Arabic, and to a lesser extent Persian provide loanwords with a rich array of consonant clusters. The introduction of these clusters into the language contravenes a historical tendency within its native core vocabulary to eliminate clusters through processes such as cluster reduction and epenthesis. lists distinctively Sanskrit/Hindi biconsonantal clusters of initial and final , and distinctively Perso-Arabic/Urdu biconsonantal clusters of final .\n\nHindustani has a stress accent, but it is not as important as in English. To predict stress placement, the concept of syllable weight is needed:\nStress is on the heaviest syllable of the word, and in the event of a tie, on the last such syllable. If all syllables are light, the penultimate is stressed. However, the final mora of the word is ignored when making this assignment (Hussein 1997) [or, equivalently, the final syllable is stressed either if it is extra-heavy, and there is no other extra-heavy syllable in the word or if it is heavy, and there is no other heavy or extra-heavy syllable in the word]. For example, with the ignored mora in parentheses:\n\nContent words in Hindustani normally begin on a low pitch, followed by a rise in pitch. Strictly speaking, Hindustani, like most other Indian languages, is rather a syllable-timed language. The schwa has a strong tendency to vanish into nothing (syncopated) if its syllable is unaccented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39284775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39284775", "title": "Holophrastic indeterminacy", "text": "Holophrastic indeterminacy\n\nHolophrastic indeterminacy, or indeterminacy of sentence translation, is one of two kinds of indeterminacy of translation to appear in the writings of philosopher W. V. O. Quine. According to Quine, \"there is more than one correct method of translating sentences where the two translations differ not merely in the meanings attributed to the sub-sentential parts of speech but also in the net import of the whole sentence\". It is holophrastic indeterminacy that underlies Quine's argument against synonymy, the basis of his objections to Rudolf Carnap's analytic/synthetic distinction. The other kind of indeterminacy introduced by Quine is the \"inscrutability of reference\", which refers to parts of a sentence or individual words.\n\nQuine's work on indeterminacy of translation, stemming from the basic forms of indeterminacy, is widely discussed in modern analytic philosophy:\n\nQuine's approach to translation, radical translation, takes the perspective of trying to establish the meaning of sentences in a foreign language (Quine calls it \"Arunta\") by observing and questioning native speakers of that language. It is a hypothetical version of what could be an empirical investigation. By an armchair analysis of such an adventure, Quine argues that it is impossible to construct a unique translation that can be defended as better than all others. The reason is predicated upon an argued \"unavoidable\" introduction of the two indeterminacies above. According to Hilary Putnam, it is “what may well be the most fascinating and the most discussed philosophical argument since Kant’s Transcendental Deduction of the Categories”.\n\nHolophrastic indeterminacy is important to the understanding of Quine's naturalized epistemology. As Quine states his thesis:\nQuine's naturalized epistemology in brief is the view that instead of traditional attempts to connect how our beliefs relate to evidence, epistemology should focus upon how experience leads to beliefs: the causal connections between our sensory evidence and our beliefs about the world. .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17464252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17464252", "title": "Input hypothesis", "text": "Input hypothesis\n\nThe input hypothesis, also known as the monitor model, is a group of five hypotheses of second-language acquisition developed by the linguist Stephen Krashen in the 1970s and 1980s. Krashen originally formulated the input hypothesis as just one of the five hypotheses, but over time the term has come to refer to the five hypotheses as a group. The hypotheses are the input hypothesis, the acquisition–learning hypothesis, the monitor hypothesis, the natural order hypothesis and the affective filter hypothesis. The input hypothesis was first published in 1977.\n\nThe hypotheses put primary importance on the comprehensible input (CI) that language learners are exposed to. Understanding spoken and written language input is seen as the only mechanism that results in the increase of underlying linguistic competence, and language output is not seen as having any effect on learners' ability. Furthermore, Krashen claimed that linguistic competence is only advanced when language is subconsciously \"acquired\", and that conscious \"learning\" cannot be used as a source of spontaneous language production. Finally, learning is seen to be heavily dependent on the mood of the learner, with learning being impaired if the learner is under stress or does not want to learn the language.\n\nKrashen's hypotheses have been influential in language education, particularly in the United States, but have received criticism from some academics. Two of the main criticisms state that the hypotheses are untestable, and that they assume a degree of separation between \"acquisition\" and \"learning\" that has not been proven to exist.\n\nThe five hypotheses that Krashen proposed are as follows:\n\n\nIf \"i\" represents previously acquired linguistic competence and extra-linguistic knowledge, the hypothesis claims that we move from \"i\" to \"i+1\" by understanding input that contains \"i+1\". Extra-linguistic knowledge includes our knowledge of the world and of the situation, that is, the context. The \"+1\" represents new knowledge or language structures that we should be ready to acquire.\n\nThe comprehensible input hypothesis can be restated in terms of the natural order hypothesis. For example, if we acquire the rules of language in a linear order (1, 2, 3...), then \"i\" represents the last rule or language form learned, and \"i+1\" is the next structure that should be learned. It must be stressed, however, that just any input is not sufficient; the input received must be comprehensible. According to Krashen, there are three corollaries to his theory.\n\n\nIn modern linguistics, there are many theories as to how humans are able to develop language ability. According to Stephen Krashen's acquisition-learning hypothesis, there are two independent ways in which we develop our linguistic skills: acquisition and learning. This theory is at the core of modern language acquisition theory, and is perhaps the most fundamental of Krashen's theories.\n\nAcquisition of language is a natural, intuitive, and subconscious process of which individuals need not be aware. One is unaware of the process as it is happening and, when the new knowledge is acquired, the acquirer generally does not realize that he or she possesses any new knowledge. According to Krashen, both adults and children can subconsciously acquire language, and either written or oral language can be acquired. This process is similar to the process that children undergo when learning their native language. Acquisition requires \"meaningful\" interaction in the target language, during which the acquirer is focused on meaning rather than form.\n\nLearning a language, on the other hand, is a conscious process, much like what one experiences in school. New knowledge or language forms are represented consciously in the learner's mind, frequently in the form of language \"rules\" and \"grammar\", and the process often involves error correction. Language learning involves formal instruction and, according to Krashen, is less effective than acquisition. Learning in this sense is conception or conceptualisation: instead of learning a language itself, students learn an abstract, conceptual \"model\" of a language, a \"theory\" about a language (a grammar).\n\nThe monitor hypothesis asserts that a learner's learned system acts as a monitor to what they are producing. In other words, while only the acquired system is able to produce spontaneous speech, the learned system is used to check what is being spoken.\n\nBefore the learner produces an utterance, he or she internally scans it for errors, and uses the learned system to make corrections. Self-correction occurs when the learner uses the Monitor to correct a sentence after it is uttered. According to the hypothesis, such self-monitoring and self-correction are the only functions of conscious language learning.\n\nThe Monitor model then predicts faster initial progress by adults than children, as adults use this ‘monitor’ when producing L2 (target language) utterances before having acquired the ability for natural performance, and adult learners will input more into conversations earlier than children.\n\nAccording to Krashen, for the Monitor to be successfully used, three conditions must be met:\n\nThere are many difficulties with the use of the monitor, making the monitor rather weak as a language tool.\n\nDue to these difficulties, Krashen recommends using the monitor at times when it does not interfere with communication, such as while writing.\n\nThe natural order hypothesis states that all learners acquire a language in roughly the same order. This order is not dependent on the ease with which a particular language feature can be taught; some features, such as third-person \"-s\" (\"he runs\") are easy to teach in a classroom setting, but are not typically acquired until the later stages of language acquisition. This hypothesis was based on the morpheme studies by Dulay and Burt, which found that certain morphemes were predictably learned before others during the course of second-language acquisition.\n\nThe affective filter is an impediment to learning or acquisition caused by negative emotional (\"affective\") responses to one's environment. It is a hypothesis of second-language acquisition theory, and a field of interest in educational psychology.\n\nAccording to the affective filter hypothesis, certain emotions, such as anxiety, self-doubt, and mere boredom interfere with the process of acquiring a second language. They function as a filter between the speaker and the listener that reduces the amount of language input the listener is able to understand. These negative emotions prevent efficient processing of the language input. The hypothesis further states that the blockage can be reduced by sparking interest, providing low-anxiety environments, and bolstering the learner's self-esteem.\n\nAccording to Krashen (1982), there are two prime issues that prevent the lowering of the affective filter. The first is not allowing for a silent period (expecting the student to speak before they have received an adequate amount of comprehensible input according to their individual needs). The second is correcting their errors too early-on in the process.\n\nThe model has been criticized by some linguists and isn't considered a valid hypothesis for some. It has, however, inspired much research, and many linguists praise its value.\n\nAccording to Wolfgang Butzkamm & John A. W. Caldwell (2009), comprehensible input, defined by Krashen as understanding messages, is indeed the necessary condition for acquisition, but it is not sufficient. Learners will crack the speech code only if they receive input that is comprehended at two levels. They must not only understand what is meant but also how things are quite literally expressed, i.e. how the different meaning components are put together to produce the message. This is the principle of dual comprehension. In many cases both types of understanding can be conflated into one process, in others not. The German phrase \"Wie spät ist es?\" is perfectly understood as \"What time is it?\" However learners need to know more: *How late is it? That’s what the Germans say literally, which gives us the anatomy of the phrase, and the logic behind it. Only now is understanding complete, and we come into full possession of the phrase which can become a recipe for many more sentences, such as \"Wie alt ist es?\" / \"How old is it?\" etc. According to Butzkamm & Caldwell (2009:64) \"dually comprehended language input is the fuel for our language learning capacities\". It is both necessary and sufficient.\n\nThe theory underlies Krashen and Terrell's comprehension-based language learning methodology known as the natural approach (1983). The Focal Skills approach, first developed in 1988, is also based on the theory. English as a Second Language Podcast was also inspired by Krashen's ideas on providing comprehensible input to language acquirers.\n\nThe most popular competitors are the skill-building hypothesis and the comprehensible output hypothesis. The input hypothesis is related to instructional scaffolding.\n\nKrashen designed two levels:\n\"Beginning level\"\n\n\"Intermediate level\"'\n\nAs a practical matter, \"comprehensive input\" works with the following teaching techniques:\n\n\n Krashen, S. (1979), 'The Monitor Model for second language acquisition,' in R. Gingras (ed.) Second Language Acquisition and Foreign Language Teaching, CAL\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12547464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12547464", "title": "International Society for Contemporary Music", "text": "International Society for Contemporary Music\n\nThe International Society for Contemporary Music (ISCM) is a music organization that promotes contemporary classical music.\n\nThe organization was established in Salzburg in 1922 as Internationale Gesellschaft für Neue Musik (IGNM) following the\nInternationale Kammermusikaufführungen Salzburg, a festival of modern chamber music held as part of the Salzburg Festival. Since then, aside from a hiatus between 1940 and 1945 due to World War II, the ISCM's core activity has been an annual festival of contemporary classical music held every year at a different location, the first of which took place in 1923 in Salzburg, which has come to be known as the ISCM World Music Days (sometimes World New Music Days, abbreviated either WMD or WNMD depending on which name is used). There have been a total of 86 of these thus far, the most recent of which took place in Tongyeong, South Korea in April 2016. The next WMD is scheduled to take place in Vancouver, Canada in November 2017.\n\nEach year, during the World Music Days. ISCM members also convene in a General Assembly. Membership in the ISCM is organized through national sections that promote contemporary music in each country. These sections are usually organizations independent from the ISCM that send delegates to the ISCM General Assembly. Each member of the national section is also a member of ISCM and may send in 6 works that are evaluated for performance at the World Music Days. National organizations that promote contemporary music, but have not been designated as the nation section of ISCM, are sometimes given an associate membership status. This status also applies to the members of these organizations. Some individual music professionals receive the \"honorary membership\" status. The ISCM is governed by an Executive Committee consisting of seven people; two (Secretary General and Treasurer) are appointed positions and the remaining five (President, Vice President, and three regular members) are chosen from and by the delegates in an election during the General Assembly.\nSince 1991, the ISCM has also published an annual \"World New Music Magazine\", a print publication that is distributed to its members for further dissemination. A total of 24 issues have been produced thus far, and since 2006, each magazine has also been made available as a digital downloadable PDF from the ISCM's website. ISCM is a member of the International Music Council.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9797150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9797150", "title": "John Trobaugh", "text": "John Trobaugh\n\nJohn Trobaugh (born 1968) in Lansing, Michigan is an American artist specializing in photography and based in Birmingham, Alabama. Trobaugh received his BFA in 1996 with honors from University of Alabama at Birmingham and went on to study photography at the School of Visual Arts. In 2003 he received his Masters in Fine Art from the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.\n\nHis photography has been published in Art Papers, selected as the cover artist. He has also been published in The Chronicle of Higher Education, NY Arts Magazine, The Washington Post and The Advocate as well as The Birmingham News and World of Wonder, among many others.\n\nWhile teaching at Sheldon State in Tuscaloosa Alabama, Trobaugh's work was censored before a planned exhibition. The case has yet to be resolved but gained national attention due to censorship issues. He was forbidden to discuss this censorship as part of his art appreciation class. Trobaugh later resigned his post.\n\nRichard Meyer, Chair of the Art Department at The University of Southern California in Los Angeles, California, spoke about Trobaugh's work at various national conferences about censorship. Trobaugh was also presented in The Smithsonian National Gallery and is the author of several articles including Art Papers.\n\nIn 2005, Space One Eleven exhibited Trobaugh's work alongside Karen Graffeo for\"In This Place\". M. K. Matalon organized this exhibition to investigate place and location in relationship to contemporary Southern issues.\n\nTrobaugh's work was selected to be part of \"Patterns of Nature\" in Denver, Colorado.\n\nTrobaugh was included in \"Politics, Politics: Nine Artists Explore the Political Landscape\" curated by Anne Arrasmith and Peter Prinz of Space One Eleven. This exhibition was funded by the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts and included Pinky Bass, Clayton Colvin, Peggy Dobbins, Randy Gachet, binx Newton, Arthur Price, Paul Ware, and Stan Woodard.\n\nTrobaugh was a presenter for \"Photography in the Digital Age\" by The Society For Photographic Education South Central Regional Conference, 2003. This meeting took place at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and Birmingham Museum of Art in Birmingham, Alabama \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41572538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41572538", "title": "Kadambini", "text": "Kadambini\n\nKadambini is a noted Hindi-language literary monthly magazine from Delhi-based Hindustan Times Media. Established in 1960, it is the only Hindi magazine which covers a wide range of subjects including literature, science, history, sociology, politics, films and sports.\n\nThrough the 1960s, under its founding editor Balkrishna Rao and later under Rajendra Awasthi, Kadambini and a few other leading publications of the time, started publishing short stories (\"laghu katha\") by leading writers like Agyeya, Mahadevi Verma, Kunwar Narayan and Ramanada Doshi. This in time had an important impact on the growth of short story movement (\"Nayi Kahani\") in Hindi literature. Soon, it became a prominent magazine of North India, and flourished through the 1980s, and along with magazines like \"Dharmyug\" and \"Sarika\", allowed Hindi-language media to acquire a character of their own.\n\nThe magazine also awards, the annual \"Kadambini Prizes\", given after on-the-spot essay and short story competitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "49400474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49400474", "title": "Khawal", "text": "Khawal\n\nThe khawal (plural \"khawalat\") ar: خول was traditional 1911 native Egyptian male dancer cross-dressed in feminine attire and was popular up until the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.\n\nIn the oldest Arabic dictionary \"Kitab al-'Ayn\" the definition of \"khawal\" was a \"servant\" or \"slave\". \"Khawalat\" were acquired by unknown means, perhaps purchased as the spoils of war. However, they were different from classic slaves because the term did not necessarily imply ownership.\n\nIn response to the prohibition of women dancing in public, cross-dressing males took their place. The khawal were effeminate male transvestite dancers in Egypt that emulated the female ghawazi by dancing with castanet self accompaniment, their hands painted with henna, long hair dressed in braids, plucking facial hair, wearing make-up, and adopting the manners of women. \n\nAs they impersonate women, their dances are exactly of the same description as those of the Ghawazee [female dancers] ... Their general appearance ... is more feminine than masculine: they suffer the hair of the head to grow long, and generally braid it, in the manner of women ... they imitate the women also in applying kohl and henna to their eyes and hands like women. In the streets, when not engaged in dancing, they often veil their faces; not from shame, but merely to affect the manners of women.\n\nThey would distinguish themselves from real females by wearing a costume that was part male and part female. The khawal performed at various functions such as weddings, births, circumcisions, and festivals. They also performed for foreign visitors in the nineteenth century sometimes causing confusion among the spectators. The khawal were perceived as sexually available; their male audiences found their ambiguity seductive.\n\nIn modern Egyptian slang, the term is derogatory and refers to a passive gay man.\n\n"}
{"id": "17751137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17751137", "title": "Koonalda Cave", "text": "Koonalda Cave\n\nKoonalda Cave is a cave in the Australian state of South Australia, on the Nullarbor Plain in the locality of Nullarbor. It is notable as an archeological site.\n\nI.D. Lewis described the cave in 1976 as:Large doline 60m in diam. and 25m deep; talus slope to two main large passages connected by a high window; total length of cave 1200m; three lakes at -80m; narrow airspace beyond third lake leads to 45m diam. dome and lake; another 30m sump leads off this...\n\nThousands of square metres in the cave are covered in parallel finger-marked geometric lines and patterns, Indigenous Australian artwork which has been dated as 20,000 years old, making it older than any known prehistoric art in Europe. It is located about west of the Nullarbor roadhouse and about north east from Eucla within the Nullarbor Wilderness Protection Area.\n\nThe cave was abandoned 19,000 years ago, and rediscovered by archeologists in 1956.\n\nThe cave was explored by an expedition led by Captain J. M. Thompson in 1935. The team entered the cave by a ladder and found themselves in a chamber some in circumference and walked down tunnels over in length.\n\nIn the 1960s, the cave was excavated by Alexander Gallus, who found that Aboriginal peoples had mined flint there.\n\nKoonalda Cave was listed on the South Australian Heritage Register on 4 March 1993 and inscribed onto the Australian National Heritage List on 15 October 2014. It was also listed on the now-defunct Register of the National Estate.\n"}
{"id": "6441991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6441991", "title": "Lezginka", "text": "Lezginka\n\nThe Lezginka is the collective name originally given by Russians to all Caucasian dances united by fast 6/8 rhythm. It can be solo male or pair dance. The melody is clear and dynamic, the pace is fast. Common mistake attributes it only to Lezghi people. However, until the end of XIX century Russians used name \"Lezgin\" as the common name for all highlanders of Dagestan.\n\nAccording to Encyclopædia Britannica:\n\n"}
{"id": "56233241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56233241", "title": "List of films featuring miniature people", "text": "List of films featuring miniature people\n\nThere is a body of films that feature miniature people. The concept of a human shrinking in size has existed since the beginning of cinema, with early films using camera techniques to change perceptions of human sizes. The earliest film to have a shrunken person was a 1901 short \"The Dwarf and the Giant\" by Georges Méliès in which a character was split into two, with one growing in size and the other shrinking. Before digital effects became commonplace, composite screens were used to create the illusion of miniature people. The element appeared in numerous B movies. James Luxford, writing for the British Film Institute, said, \"Each era has used the scenario for very different purposes, in ways that often reflect the anxieties of the time.\" He added, \"The reason shrinking characters have been so popular in films is that they enable the viewer to see the world in a different way.\"\n\nDon Kaye, writing for \"Den of Geek!\", said, \"The 'shrinking person' genre got its start in the early ‘30s, with nearly each decade since then offering up its own variation on the theme. Some have been frightening, some humorous and others just plain ludicrous -- but all tap into that deep-seated fear of being diminished in a world that looms too large around us.\" In the 1960s, \"Fantastic Voyage\" featured miniature people, but no major film revisited the concept until the 1980s. \"Grantland\"s Claire L. Evans said during this decade, \"The conceit, being inherently silly, was reframed as a vehicle for broad physical comedies and family movies.\" She said, \"These kinds of films reframe domestic life — a bowl of cereal, the family cat — as a cinematic landscape of awe and terror as exotic as anything on an alien world.\"\n\nTV series featuring miniature people:\nTV episodes featuring miniature people:\n"}
{"id": "2591918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2591918", "title": "List of social movements", "text": "List of social movements\n\nSocial movements are groupings of individuals or organizations which focus on political or social issues.\n\nThis list excludes the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43131422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43131422", "title": "Mahmoud Mehrmohammadi", "text": "Mahmoud Mehrmohammadi\n\nMahmoud Mehrmohammadi () is educational scholar, curriculum theorist and faculty member of Tarbiat Modares University. The domain of his activities and studies is education.\n\nMahmoud Mehrmohammadi was born in 1958 in Tehran. Graduated from high school in 1975 and went to the US to continue his studies. Obtained a BS in Industrial Technology, Building construction in 1979 from California State University- Fresno. He then went to San Jose- California to study for his Masters. Majoring this time in the field of education he opted to study educational technology and obtained his degree 1n 1981. For PhD he chose University of Southern California (USC) and studied in the department of Curriculum and Instruction from 1985 to 1987.\n\nUpon returning home he assumed the position of the director for the Center for Educational Planning in the ministry of higher education and taught simultaneously in many universities. He is former chancellor of a national teacher education university named Farhangian University. He has published about 10 books and around 100 papers in the field. Most of his works aim at offering a new perspective about commonplaces of the education system.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39574285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39574285", "title": "Makonde art", "text": "Makonde art\n\nMakonde art is the art of the Makonde people.\n\nMakonde art can be subdivided into different areas. The Makonde traditionally carve household objects, figures and masks. After the 1930s, the Portuguese colonizers and other missionaries arrived at the Makonde plateau. They immediately showed great interest and fascination for the Makonde wood carvings and began to order different pieces, from religious to political “eminences.” The Makonde sculptors, after noticing such interest, decided to carve the new pieces using pau-preto (ebony wood, Diospyros ebenum) and pau-rosa (Swartzia spp.) instead of the soft and non long-lasting wood they had used before. This first contact with the Western culture can be considered to be the first introduction of the classical European style into the traditional Makonde style.Since the 1950s years the socalled Modern Makonde Art has been developed. An essential step was the turning to abstract figures, mostly spirits, Shetani, that play a special role. This shetani style originated in the early 1950s by master carver Samaki Likankoa, whose patron Mohamed Peera, an art curator in Tanzania played an instrumental and decisive role in influencing the modern makonde art movement. Some Makonde sculptors, the best known of whom is George Lugwani, have embraced fully abstract style of carving without discernible figures. Makonde are also part of the important contemporary artists of Africa today. The most internationally acknowledged such artist was George Lilanga.\n\nThe ex libris of ritual Makonde art are the unique Mapiko masks (singular: Lipiko), which have been used in coming-of-age rituals since before contact was made with missionaries, in the 19th century. These masks are painstakingly carved from a single block of light wood (usually 'sumaumeira brava') and may represent spirits ('shetani'), ancestors, or living characters (real or idealized). The dancer wears them so that he sees through the mask's mouth and the mask faces straight when he bends forward. Examples of such masks are provided in the second row of pictures below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28493627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28493627", "title": "Manila hostage crisis", "text": "Manila hostage crisis\n\nThe Manila hostage crisis, officially known as the Rizal Park hostage-taking incident, took place when a disgruntled former Philippine National Police officer named Rolando Mendoza hijacked a tourist bus in Rizal Park, Manila, Philippines on August 23, 2010. The bus carried 25 people: 20 tourists, a tour guide from Hong Kong, and four local Filipinos. Mendoza claimed that he had been unfairly dismissed from his job, and demanded a fair hearing to defend himself.\n\nNegotiations (which were broadcast live on television and the internet) broke down dramatically about ten hours into the stand-off, when the police arrested Mendoza's brother and thus incited Mendoza to open fire. The bus driver managed to escape, and declared \"Everyone is dead\" before he was whisked away by policemen. Following a 90-minute gun battle, Mendoza and eight of the hostages were killed and several others injured.\n\nThe Philippine and Hong Kong governments conducted separate investigations into the incident. Both inquiries concluded that the Philippine officials' poor handling of the situation caused the eight hostages' deaths. The assault mounted by the Manila Police District (MPD), and the resulting shoot-out, have been widely criticized by pundits as \"bungled\" and \"incompetent\", and the Hong Kong Government has issued a \"black\" travel alert for the Philippines as a result of the affair.\n\nOn April 12, 2018, Philippine president Rodrigo Duterte publicly apologized for the incident on behalf of his country.\n\nRolando Mendoza graduated from the Philippine College of Criminology with a degree in criminology, joined the Philippine National Police force as a patrolman, and rose to become senior inspector. He was decorated 17 times for bravery and honor, and was described by colleagues as hard-working and kind. In February 1986, Mendoza led a group of policemen that accosted a van carrying 13 crates full of money, which former Philippine president and dictator Ferdinand Marcos was apparently trying to smuggle out of the country. Mendoza and his team turned the shipment over to authorities, for which he was declared one of the Ten Outstanding Policemen of the Philippines by the Jaycees International that year.\n\nOn April 9, 2008, hotel chef Christian Kalaw alleged that he was accosted by Mendoza and several other officers over a parking violation. Kalaw alleged that the police planted sachets of methamphetamine in his car, forced him to take the drug, and accused him of being a drug addict. The officers also allegedly demanded Kalaw access his bank ATM and hand over money. Kalaw said the policemen released him after a friend raised 20,000 pesos on his behalf. The Office of the Ombudsman found Mendoza and four others guilty of misconduct, and ordered Mendoza's dismissal from the service and the voiding of all his benefits. In late April 2008, he was relieved as Chief of the Mobile Patrol Unit. In August 2008, the Eighth Division of the Manila Prosecutors' Office vacated the case after Kalaw failed to attend the dismissal proceedings, and in October the PNP Internal Affairs Service recommended the case be dropped. Mendoza's brother, Gregorio, later stated that all his brother wanted was a fair hearing by the Ombudsman, who \"never even gave him a chance to defend himself; they [just] immediately dismissed him.\"\n\nThere were later reports that Mendoza was also charged with gang rape in a 1996 incident, but the case was dismissed when the complainants did not show up at court.\n\nOn the morning of August 23, 2010, Mendoza attempted to board a Hong Thai Travel Services tour bus as it was taking on riders. Mendoza requested a free ride, and when he was declined by the driver, Mendoza brandished a weapon, handcuffed the driver to the steering wheel and hijacked the bus. There are conflicting reports as to whether Mendoza boarded in front of Quirino Grandstand at Rizal Park, or at Fort Santiago; a number of witnesses saw a man answering Mendoza's description boarding the bus at the latter location.\n\nIn any event, Mendoza, armed with a handgun and an M16 rifle, commandeered the tour bus, demanded reinstatement to his previous post with benefits, and claimed he was framed. Manila mayor Alfredo Lim said he would grant Mendoza's wish to be reinstated if he could prove his case.\n\nMasa Tse Ting-chunn, the bus' tour guide, immediately called his agency in Hong Kong shortly after 10:30 am. During the two-minute conversation, Tse calmly informed the customer services manager that his group was being held hostage. Initial media reports were confusing and contradictory; the suspect was alternatively identified as \"Ronaldo,\" \"Rolando\" and \"Reynaldo\"; and the hostages aboard were initially reported to be South Koreans before they were confirmed to be mostly from Hong Kong.\n\nAlmost an hour later, six Hong Kong tourists were freed— an elderly couple, a woman with two young children, and a 12-year-old boy. Two Filipino photographers boarded the bus as volunteer hostages in exchange for the releases.\n\nBy noon, three additional hostages, including the Filipino tour guide and the two photographers who volunteered to be taken hostage, had also been released. TV5 news anchor Erwin Tulfo remained in contact with Mendoza, while superintendent Orlando Yebra and chief inspector Romeo Salvador led negotiations. Seventeen people remained on the bus. By this time, television channels all over the world were preempting their programs with non-stop live coverage of the hostage situation. Philippine television stations ABS-CBN, GMA, TV5 and government-run NBN (now PTV), as well as Hong Kong television station TVB and CNN, all provided live coverage. However, because the news networks were filming police activity, and the bus was equipped with a television, the gunman was able to watch the police action and determine the locations of snipers. At around 2 pm, Mendoza posted several notes on the windows, which read \"A big mistake to correct. A big wrong decision\", \"Big deal will start after 3 pm today\" and \"3 pm deadlock\".\n\nShortly after sundown, the Office of the Ombudsman denied Mendoza's request to be reinstated to the police force, but assured him that his case would be reopened. Manila Vice-Mayor Isko Moreno delivered the Ombudsman's letter to the hostage scene. Mendoza called the Ombudsman's decision \"garbage\", claiming that it did not answer his demands. Mayor Lim later claimed on local radio that authorities had agreed to reinstate Mendoza to bring an end to the crisis, but had not been able to deliver the message due to bad traffic.\n\nWhen the Manila Police District (MPD) SWAT team arrived, Mendoza declared in a radio interview with DZXL that he would kill the passengers if the SWAT team did not leave. His brother, SPO2 Gregorio Mendoza, walked out after trying to negotiate with him. He urged Mendoza to surrender peacefully, saying, \"Nothing [bad] will happen here.\" Gregorio Mendoza was then arrested for breaching the exclusion zone while carrying a gun, as he did not have the MPD's approval to assist in the negotiations. President Aquino later said that the gunman's brother had contributed to the deterioration of the situation, by fanning Mendoza's hatred of the negotiators.\n\nMendoza became agitated when he witnessed live coverage of his brother's arrest from the bus television. Reports indicated that Mendoza fired warning shots as he saw his brother being carried away. Mendoza demanded that the police release his brother, or else he would start executing hostages, and a few minutes later claimed on live radio that he had, indeed, already shot two hostages.\n\nThe first shots fired from within the bus were heard at about 7:21 pm. At around the same time, it was reported that snipers had shot the tires immobilizing the bus after it had attempted to move. Mendoza first killed Masa Tse, the tour leader whom he had handcuffed to the door handrail earlier. According to survivor Joe Chan Kwok-chu, several hostages tried to rush Mendoza as he was preparing to shoot the other hostages, but he shot them down before they could reach him.\n\nAt around 7:30pm, bus driver Alberto Lubang escaped the bus. Thinking that all remaining hostages had died, Lubang cried \"Patay na lahat...!\" (\"Everyone is dead...!\") to the policemen and media. He later admitted that his assumption was based on witnessing Mendoza shoot three hostages and firing additional shots at others.\n\nMendoza then began shooting the rest of the hostages one by one, aiming at each of their heads. Amy Leung Ng Yau-woon told of how her husband Ken Leung Kam-wing shielded her with his body and saved her from harm while sacrificing his own life. Similarly, their daughter Jessie Leung Song-yi took two bullets while protecting her older brother, and died as a result. Passenger Joe Chan shielded himself from Mendoza's gunfire with his backpack and survived, but both of his wrists were shattered. Chan's traveling companion was seriously injured by a gunshot to her chin.\n\nThe SWAT team started to surround the bus at 7:37 pm. The policemen attempted for nearly an hour to enter the bus, first by breaking its Plexi glass windows with sledgehammers, pulling the door with a rope attached to a police vehicle but it snapped. After running out of choices, they threw two canisters of tear gas inside and Mendoza stepped out of the bus. Snipers, who had taken positions earlier in the day, ultimately shot Mendoza in the head after he exited the bus, killing him instantly. By that time, however, four more hostages were confirmed dead, while only six hostages were confirmed alive and not seriously injured. Two other people outside the bus — 47-year-old TVB news crew engineer Wen Ming, and child bystander Mike Ladrillo y Campanero — were wounded by stray bullets.\n\nSix of the surviving hostages were taken to Ospital ng Maynila Medical Center, where two later died; two were taken to the Philippine General Hospital; the remaining seven hostages were taken to Manila Doctors Hospital. There were eight total fatalities. The 13 survivors had injuries which ranged from minor to substantial.\n\nBecause the bus driver Alberto Lubang had escaped the bus minutes before the situation deteriorated, despite his claim that he had been handcuffed to the steering wheel, suspicions arose that he was in fact the gunman's accomplice, which Lubang denied. However, on August 27, 2010, Lubang and his family were reported missing and had fled their home, possibly going into hiding.\n\nThe list of the eight identified victims included Ken Leung (梁錦榮), his two daughters Doris Leung Chung-see (梁頌詩), 21, and Jessie Leung Song-yi (梁頌儀), 14 (his son Jason Leung (梁頌學) was seriously injured) Wong Tze-lam (汪子林) and his wife Yeung Yee-wa (楊綺華) and her sister Yeung Yee-kam (楊綺琴); and Fu Cheuk-yan (傅卓仁).\n\nDonald Tsang, Chief Executive of Hong Kong, offered for the eight victims to be buried in the (景仰園), a part of Wo Hop Shek Public Cemetery designated for Hongkongers who showed extraordinary acts of bravery to save others. Fu and the three members of the Wong family accepted the offer and were buried at Tribute Garden. On 1 July 2011, (謝廷駿, ), Fu Cheuk-yan and Ken Leung Kam-wing were all posthumously awarded the Gold Medal for Bravery by the Hong Kong government. Mendoza's parents apologized and begged forgiveness from the Hong Kong government for their son's actions.\n\nPresident Aquino ordered a thorough investigation, and for a report to be issued within three weeks. The investigation was held by the Post Critical Incident Management Committee (PCIMC), under the auspices of the Joint Incident Investigation and Review Committee (JIIRC), headed by former Secretary of Justice Leila de Lima. As a gesture of transparency towards the Hong Kong government, the Aquino government invited the Hong Kong Police Force to send a team to observe the investigation. De Lima declared a gag order to cover all parties and departments, including the Hong Kong team examining evidence on the ground.\n\nPreliminary results of the official investigation were released on August 31, 2010. Ballistic tests showed that the deceased hostages' wounds were caused by a high-calibre weapon fired from within the coach. Of the 65 recovered M16 rifle cartridges from the coach, 58 came from Mendoza's gun, making it nearly certain that the eight deceased hostage were killed by Mendoza. However, on September 3, 2010, De Lima admitted that the police might have accidentally shot some of the hostages.\n\nAfter the completion of the initial inquiry on September 15, 2010, the JIIRC traveled to Hong Kong to interview survivors. The report was delivered first to the Chinese embassy in Manila on September 20, 2010, before being released to the general public, in an attempt to \"repair the nation’s relations with China\".\n\nThe official report identified eight critical errors of the handling of the hostage crisis:\n\nThe report also recommended administrative or criminal charges for 15 individuals and organisations, including Manila mayor Alfredo Lim, vice-mayor Isko Moreno, Ombudsmen Merceditas Gutierrez and Emilio Gonzales III, government undersecretary Rico J. Puno, retired Philippine National Police chief director general Jesus Verzosa, National Capital Region Police Office director Leocadio Santiago Jr., Manila Police District chief superintendent Rodolfo Magtibay, MPD hostage negotiator Orlando Yebra, SWAT commander Santiago Pascual, journalists Erwin Tulfo and Mike Rogas, and three broadcasting networks.\n\nOn March 31, 2011, Ombudsman Emilio Gonzales was dismissed by President Aquino for his \"inordinate and unjustified delay\" in handling Mendoza's appeal. Gonzales was the first individual to receive direct sanction from the Philippine government in connection with the incident. He appealed the decision, claiming that he was \"prejudged guilty before the investigation started\".\n\nOn August 25, 2010, the bodies of the victims were brought back to Hong Kong on a government-chartered flight. The Coroner decided that an investigation into their deaths should be carried out, and ordered autopsies on all eight bodies. Five bodies were ultimately autopsied; the remaining three were not autopsied by requests from their families.\n\nThe Hong Kong Government invited 116 Philippine witnesses to participate in their investigation, which began on February 14, 2011. Among those invited were Gregorio Mendoza, the hostage-taker's brother, Manila mayor Alfredo Lim, Vice-Mayor Isko Moreno, reporters who covered the incident, members of the SWAT team and a number of forensic experts. Lim and Moreno rejected the invitation. They claimed that, rather than conduct another probe, Hong Kong should respect the conclusion of the Philippines' investigation that Mendoza was responsible for the deaths. They claimed that the Hong Kong probe was an encroachment of Philippine sovereignty and independence.\n\nThe Hong Kong investigation interviewed 31 witnesses from Hong Kong and 10 from the Philippines. The coroner's five-member jury had to answer \"yes\", \"no\", or \"uncertain\" to a list of 44 statements, a method that was unique to Hong Kong's history and procedures. The narrative verdict found that all eight victims were \"unlawfully killed\" and blamed the Philippine authorities' incompetent handling of the crisis as a direct cause of their deaths, although it declined to attribute any criminal or civil liability.\n\nIn August 2011, two survivors of the crisis, Joe Chan Kwok-chu (陳國柱) and Yik Siu-ling (易小玲), along with Tse Che-kin, brother of Masa Tse, met with Philippines government officials to discuss compensation. Chief executive Donald Tsang refused to intervene, labeling it a civil case. Democratic Party lawmaker James To had assisted Chan and Yik in their plea for legal aid, which was expensive and complicated. During the visit by Manila Mayor Estrada and Cabinet Secretary Almendras to meet with the victims and Hong Kong officials, the latter had stated that a \"token of solidarity\" will be given to the victims and their families. It, however, was not officially addressed as compensation money.\n\nIn 2014, the Hong Kong government, Philippines government and victims’ families reached an agreement under which an undisclosed amount of compensation was paid by Manila to the victims' families. \n\nChinese foreign minister Yang Jiechi stated that he was \"appalled\" by the event, and sent a team to the Philippines to \"deal with the situation\". China's state-run \"Global Times\" called the Philippines \"one of the most chaotic countries in Southeast Asia\" following the shootings.\n\nAdditionally, the Chinese consul in the Philippines asked for a written statement of accountability from the Philippine government, and rejected the explanation given by President Benigno Aquino III at an August 24, 2010 press conference. Plans for a delegation led by Philippine vice-president Jejomar Binay to visit Beijing and Hong Kong on August 26–27, 2010 to soothe tensions and \"explain the hostage incident\" was rejected by the Chinese government, pending the outcome of a complete investigation report.\n\nOn August 27, 2010, the Chinese embassy in the Philippines expressed anger at the Mendoza family's decision to cover Mendoza's coffin with the Flag of the Philippines during his wake.\n\nThe Hong Kong government had wanted to resolve the hostage situation in a peaceful manner. Its Security Bureau formed a taskforce, and sent officers to Manila to assist the hostage rescue efforts. Immediately following the assault, however, the Security Bureau announced a 'black' outbound travel alert for the Philippines, (this lasted until August 2014) and Hong Kong residents were advised against traveling there, while residents already in the Philippines were advised to return to Hong Kong as soon as possible. Hong Kong officials also announced that visa-free privileges for Philippine diplomats and officials would be revoked after February 5, 2014.\n\nDonald Tsang, the Chief Executive of Hong Kong, offered his condolences to the victims' families, stating that the Chinese government would do anything within its power to aid and rehabilitate the survivors and their families. He complained that he had not been able to get through to President Aquino by telephone during the siege, and criticized the way the siege was handled. The government chartered two airplanes carrying doctors and counsellors to Manila to support the survivors of the incident, and to fly the Hong Kong victims home. The bodies of all eight victims, along with most of the survivors, were returned to Hong Kong on August 25, 2010. A memorial ceremony was held as the victims arrived on the tarmac of Hong Kong International Airport, attended, amongst others, by Chief Secretary for Administration Henry Tang and Secretary for Security Ambrose Lee.\n\nAll Hong Kong SAR flags at official locations were lowered to half-mast from August 24 to 26, and the nightly multimedia display \"A Symphony of Lights\" was suspended to mourn the victims; all Chinese national flags in Hong Kong were also lowered to half-mast. The Hong Kong Stock Exchange held a minute's silence before opening on August 24. The government announced the opening of 18 locations around Hong Kong where citizens could pay their respects and sign condolence books.\n\nA visit by Mayor Estrada and Cabinet Secretary Almendras helped to ease the situation where Hong Kong officials agreed to end sanctions placed on the Philippines.\n\nPresident Benigno Aquino III expressed his condolences to the victims and promised a \"thorough investigation\". While he was not impressed with the manner the police handled the crisis, he defended the actions of the police, stating that the gunman had not shown any signs of wanting to harm the hostages. He also made reference to the Moscow theater hostage crisis, which he said resulted in \"more severe\" casualties despite Russia's \"resources and sophistication\". In addition, he declared that the news media may have worsened the situation by giving the shooter \"a bird's-eye view of the entire situation\".\n\nAfter Aquino's comments, a number of Hong Kong residents posted angry messages to his official Facebook page, some of which accused Aquino of smiling during the press conference. Aquino subsequently apologized, saying it was an expression of exasperation. On September 5, 2010, Aquino said (in Filipino), \"Our problems now, in two or three years we can say that they are laughable when we recall that they were not that grave.\"\n\nOn September 9, 2010, Aquino revealed that he had received a letter from the Hong Kong Government, which gave instructions to the Philippine government in \"minute detail\"; Aquino regarded the letter as insulting, which the Hong Kong Government denied. As to Donald Tsang's claim that he could not reach Aquino by telephone during the siege, Aquino said that Tsang should have followed protocol in trying to contact him, and claimed that he had tried to contact Tsang the next day.\n\nThe decision to arrest Mendoza's brother during the negotiation process was questioned. Manila Police District director Rodolfo Magtibay said that Mayor Lim, as head of the crisis management committee, gave the order to arrest Gregorio Mendoza – a move which caused distress in the gunman and allegedly triggered him to shoot the hostages. Manila Vice-Mayor Isko Moreno told CNN that Mendoza's brother was guilty of conspiring with the hostage-taker and allegedly helped instigate the shooting.\n\nMPD commander Leocadio Santiago, while agreeing with the decision to put the assault on hold until Mendoza had started shooting hostages, admitted that mistakes were made. Senior Supt. Agrimero Cruz Jr., spokesman for the national police, said five general lapses were observed by the PNP Command Group and Staff: poor handling of the hostage negotiation; side issues and events that further agitated the hostage taker; inadequate planning of the assault, and lack of team capability, skills and equipment; improper crowd control; and non-compliance with media relations procedures in hostage taking. Interior secretary Jessie Robredo, who is in charge of the national police, also admitted problems with how the crisis was handled. Manila Police District director Rodolfo Magtibay, as commander of the rescue operation, took leave and four members of the SWAT team were suspended, pending investigation.\n\nSeveral members of the House of Representatives condemned the hostage-taking while criticizing how the MPD handled the situation: Representative Gabriel Luis Quisumbing (Lakas-Kampi, Cebu–6th) blamed the non-stop media coverage, saying the live coverage \"may have jeopardized police rescue operations on site\" and authored a bill to constrain media coverage so as not to hinder or obstruct such rescue efforts. Rodolfo Biazon (Liberal, Muntinlupa) blamed the outcome of the incident on the unclear MPD command structure.\n\nThe Philippines planned to send a high-level delegation to China to meet and explain to officials there what happened in the hostage crisis. However, the schedule of this delegation could not be confirmed by Beijing government. Instead, Beijing urged the Philippines to submit a \"comprehensive, precise, objective\" investigation report.\n\nIn his Proclamation 23, President Aquino declared August 25, 2010 a National Day of Mourning for those killed. All Philippine flags at all government institutions, including consulates and embassies worldwide, would be flown half-mast.\n\nA hearing into the crisis was conducted by the Senate Committee on Public Order and Illegal Drugs on August 26. During the hearing, police operatives revealed that Mendoza was reading the letter from the Office of the Ombudsman to an unknown person over the phone before the violence began, and subpoenaed the records of the telephone conversation. It was further revealed that Rodolfo Magtibay, ground commander during the crisis, had an elite team of Special Action Force of the Philippine National Police at his disposal, but chose to utilize the SWAT team instead because his team had successfully rehearsed the storming that afternoon. The counter-terrorist unit from the national police were on standby behind the grandstand; the Philippine Army Light Reaction Company had also offered one of its elite squads, trained in hostage-taking scenarios and fighting Islamist militants in the southern Philippines, but was told by police it was not needed.\n\nOn August 30, 2010, a Philippine consulate official in Hong Kong appealed to Filipinos to postpone trips to Hong Kong indefinitely, citing anti-Filipino sentiments in Hong Kong. Claro Cristobal, Philippine Consul General in Hong Kong, said in a radio interview that although Filipinos in Hong Kong could be assured of safety, Filipinos travelling to Hong Kong for vacation may be troubled by angry sentiments there.\n\nCanadian Foreign Minister Lawrence Cannon issued a statement on August 24, 2010, expressing Ottawa's condolences to the families and friends of those who died. The Canadian government confirmed that the Leung family were Canadian nationals at the time of their deaths.\n\nThe British government's Foreign and Commonwealth Office confirmed that hostages Yick-Biu Li and Fung-Kwan Li, both British Citizens, were unharmed. The Union flag at British Consulate-General Hong Kong and British Embassy Manila were lowered to half-mast to honor their former colony on August 25, 2010.\n\nThe U.S. embassy in Manila condemned Mendoza for taking \"innocent tourists hostages in an effort to redress a professional grievance.\"\n\nThe aftermath of the hostage crisis was met with shock and dismay throughout the Philippines. Comments ranged from shame, sadness, and sympathy for the hostage victims; anger mixed with a sense of disbelief at the perpetrator Rolando Mendoza, the police force for its apparent bungling, and media for its overzealous coverage; and concern over the damage to the image of the country as a tourist destination and the safety and well-being of Filipinos overseas who might experience backlash over the incident.\n\nColumnist Conrado De Quiros, writing in \"The Philippine Daily Inquirer\", expressed how \"deeply, deeply ashamed\" he felt over the incident. In a follow up column, he castigated Mendoza as a \"traitor\", adding that \"to bury him in a pauper's grave will insult paupers\". Columnist Alex Magno in \"The Philippine Star\" wrote about the \"immaturity\" of the diplomatic response of the newly installed Aquino administration in what is commonly seen as its first serious leadership test of the administration, in its first one hundred days in office. Magno listed a string of mistakes from the administration, starting with how it failed to initiate contact with the Hong Kong government, to how it insulted the Hong Kong Chief Executive by not promptly responding to his call, and then later unilaterally announcing the sending of a high level delegation to the Hong Kong and Chinese governments in what Magno interpreted as a damage control measure without first confirming that Hong Kong and the PRC would receive the delegation. Magno sees the Chinese as responding with the diplomatic equivalent of \"the penalty of death by a thousand cuts.\" John Nery writing in \"The Philippine Daily Inquirer\" said it was indeed appropriate for Aquino to have kept his distance from the crisis management, despite the hands-on approach the general public was demanding with hindsight; he said the skepticism directed towards the Aquino administration was not being applied equally to the Tsang administration's account of trying unsuccessfully to reach Aquino since 4 pm. Analysts agreed that the Aquino administration's approval rating would fall, if not for the handling of the hostage taking crisis, then from a natural move off the high it was coming from.\n\nManila Mayor and Former President of the Philippines, Joseph Ejercito Estrada's journey to Hong Kong has been met with good reception from the public, although there were others who objected to his trip since President Aquino should have done the trip as head of state.\n\nPresident Duterte made a formal apology for the crisis during his official trip to Hong Kong on April 12, 2018.\n\nMost Hong Kong newspapers reported the Manila assault on front pages; some local newspapers changed their logo colours to black on their front covers. The Manila police and the Philippines government were strongly criticized for their handling of the situation. All television channels in Hong Kong broadcast devoted significant coverage to the hijacking, and its aftermath. Wall-to-wall live coverage, between 6 pm and 9 pm, made it the single incident with the most live television news coverage in Hong Kong since the September 11 attacks on New York. Google displayed a plain white Google Doodle on \"google.com.hk\" out of respect for the dead on August 24.\n\n\"Apple Daily\", which likened the Philippine police to a troop of Boy Scouts in terms of competence, also criticised the Chinese government for acting too slowly to protect lives. The \"Hong Kong Economic Journal\" criticised the Manila Police for their \"appalling professional standards, and the lack of strategic planning\"; \"The Standard\" said Philippine authorities were accountable.\n\n\"The Sun\" pointed out there was a lone counsel in Manila acting on behalf of China until after the siege had ended, and speculated that more hostages could have been saved had higher-level diplomatic pressure been applied earlier.\n\nIn light of the hostage incident, considerable public anger was vented against the Philippine authorities. In Hong Kong, there was concern about anti-Filipino sentiments. A text message circulated widely among Filipinos said that 30 Filipino domestic workers had been sacked, some of them had even been stabbed and killed, but Claro Cristobal, Philippine consul general in Hong Kong, dismissed the rumors and rumor-mongering. Cristobal said that two domestic helpers out of more than 100,000 were sacked but for reasons completely unrelated to the hostages incident. He said stories about hate-induced violence would only aggravate the situation. Meanwhile, Jinggoy Estrada, son of former president Joseph Estrada, said that an immigration officer rudely threw his passport at him after checking it when he passed through Hong Kong Immigration. However, according to security footage, Estrada entered Hong Kong through the privileged passage for diplomats, accompanied by staff from the Philippine Embassy. Cameras covering both sides clearly recorded and showed that his passport was properly handed back to a person among his entourage.\n\nLee Ying-chuen, one of seven survivors in the crisis, wrote an open letter urging Hong Kong people to help Filipinos fight for a better society and justice, and not to see them as scapegoats for their corrupt government. On August 28, 2010 a candlelight vigil with a thousand participants was held in Hong Kong to mourn the victims. Legislators from different political parties organized a march on August 29, which according to organizers, was attended by about 80,000 people; the police gave a figure of 30,000. 400 Filipinos also held a vigil for the victims in Chater Gardens on August 29.\n\nFollowing their handling of the crisis, public support for Donald Tsang rose to a two-year high, and that in other government officials also surged, according to a survey by the University of Hong Kong. Satisfaction in the government rose 10.6 percentage points.\n\nA pundit interviewed on the main evening news in Hong Kong criticized the Philippine National Police for lack of planning and strategy for negotiating with the hostage-taker. The response to the rapid deterioration of the situation caught the police off-guard; the hour-long assault on the coach was also described by a security expert as \"extremely risky to the hostages\". Security analyst Charles Shoebridge praised the SWAT team's courage but criticized the police for lack of determination, equipment, training and element of surprise; for not taking the opportunity to disarm or shoot Mendoza; for not satisfying Mendoza's demands; for not blocking off televised proceedings, for not safeguarding the public and for using Gregorio Mendoza in the negotiation. Romeo Acop, a former director of the Philippine National Police's Criminal Investigation and Detection Group, was also critical of the police for failure to establish an isolation line, slowness in addressing Mendoza's demands, failure to deploy the Special Action Force, poor negotiating team and skills, absence of an officer to control the media, and lack of actual experience.\n\nIn France, retired Colonel Frédéric Gallois, commander of the Groupe d'Intervention de la Gendarmerie Nationale (GIGN) from 2002 to 2007, after watching live television footage was quoted by Agence France-Presse (AFP) as saying that \"one cannot understand what justified this badly prepared and risky assault\", and further commented that the SWAT team lacked specialist training, equipment and tactical competence.\n\nThe hostage crisis is dramatised in the episode \"Hostage Crisis Massacre\" of the American television documentary series \"National Geographic Investigates\" produced by Partisan Pictures and National Geographic Channel.\n\nIn the documentary, Micah Fink (the director) clarifies elements of the crisis left unclear by media response. \"Mr. Mendoza staged a media event, just like the gunmen in Mumbai,\" he said in an interview for the Wall Street Journal. Sensationalism is major theme in this documentary, according to this interview. \n\nFormer FBI Deputy Assistant Director and hostage rescue expert Danny Coulson, who was also a subject in the documentary, reiterates how \"Even when there is a system in place to deal with these things, things can still go wrong.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43836122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43836122", "title": "Mother Armenia, Gyumri", "text": "Mother Armenia, Gyumri\n\nThe Mother Armenia ( \"Mayr Hayastan\") monumental statue is a female personification of Armenia, located in the city of Gyumri. It resembles the monumental complex of Mother Armenia in the capital Yerevan. It was erected in 1975 on a hill west of Gyumri city. It was composed by sculptors Ara Sargsian and Yerem Vartanyan. The architect is Rafik Yeghoyan.\n"}
{"id": "17794781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17794781", "title": "Muturangi", "text": "Muturangi\n\nMuturangi, also known as Ruamuturangi, was the son of Ohomairangi and a renowned High Priest presiding over Taputapuatea marae at Rangiatea.\n\nMuturangi was an accomplished navigator and it was he who started the tradition of The High Priest at Taputapuatea. He was responsible for collecting and recording knowledge of deepsea voyaging across Te Moananui a Kiwa (Pacific Ocean) \n\nMuturangi supposedly had as a familiar or kaitiaki (guardian spirit), a giant octopus known as Te Wheke-a-Muturangi (the Octopus of Muturangi), the same octopus which others were said to have followed to reach Aotearoa New Zealand.\n\nAnother theory for Te Wheke-a-Muturangi states that the name actually refers to the many navigation paths centered on Ra'iātea with the tentacles reaching out across the pacific (Tetahiotupa 2009).\n"}
{"id": "30863940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30863940", "title": "Night of the Lepus", "text": "Night of the Lepus\n\nNight of the Lepus (also known as Rabbits) is a 1972 American science fiction horror thriller film based on the science fiction novel \"The Year of the Angry Rabbit\" (1964) by Russell Braddon. It concerns an infestation of mutated rabbits.\n\nProduction was made in 1972 and released theatrically on July 26th in that year. The film was the first science fiction work for producer A. C. Lyles and for director William F. Claxton, both of whom came from Western film backgrounds. Character actors from Westerns the pair had worked on were brought in to star in the \"Night of the Lepus\", including Stuart Whitman, Janet Leigh, Rory Calhoun, and DeForest Kelley.\n\nShot in Arizona, \"Night of the Lepus\" used domestic rabbits filmed against miniature models and actors dressed in rabbit costumes for the attack scenes.\n\nBefore its release, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) renamed the film from its original name of \"Rabbits\" and avoided including rabbits in most promotional materials to try to keep the featured mutant creatures a secret. However, the studio itself broke the secret by issuing rabbit's foot-themed promotional materials before the release. Widely panned by critics for its premise, bad directing, stilted acting, and laughable special effects, the film's biggest failure was considered to be the inability to make the rabbits seem scary. \"Night of the Lepus\" has gained cult status for its poor quality. It was never released on VHS but was released on Region 1 DVD in October 2005 and on Blu-Ray in June of 2018.\n\nRancher Cole Hillman seeks the help of college president Elgin Clark to combat thousands of rabbits that have invaded the area after their natural predators, coyotes, were killed off. Elgin asks for the assistance of researchers Roy and Gerry Bennett because they respect Cole's wish to avoid using cyanide to poison the rabbits. Roy proposes using hormones to disrupt the rabbits' breeding cycle and takes some rabbits for experimentation. One is injected with a new serum believed to cause birth defects. However, the Bennett's daughter Amanda loves the injected rabbit, so she switches it with one from the control group. Amanda is then given the injected rabbit as a pet, but it soon escapes.\n\nWhile inspecting the rabbits' old burrowing areas, Cole and the Bennets find a large, unusual animal track. Meanwhile, Cole's son Jackie and Amanda go to a gold mine to visit Jackie's friend Billy but find him missing. Jackie finds more of the animal tracks in Billy's shed, while Amanda goes into the mine and runs into an enormous rabbit with blood on its face. Screaming in terror, she runs from the mine.\n\nMutilated bodies begin to crop up around town, including Billy, a truck driver, and a family of four. Elgin, the Bennets, Cole, and Cole's two ranch hands, Frank and Jud, go to the mine to try to kill the rabbits with explosives. As Elgin and Cole set charges on top of the mine, Roy and Frank enter the shaft to get pictorial evidence. Outside, a rabbit surfaces and attacks Jud before Gerry can shoot it. Roy and Frank escape the rabbits in the mine and run outside as the explosives are detonated.\n\nThe explosives fail to kill the rabbits, and that night they attack Cole's ranch, killing Jud while Cole, Frank, Jackie, and Cole's housekeeper escape into the storm shelter. The rabbits make their way to the general store, killing housekeeper Mildred and eating everybody else in the small town of Galanos they find before taking refuge in the buildings for the day. In the morning, Gerry and Amanda leave to avoid the coming press but get stuck along a sandy stretch of road. Roy and Elgin update Sheriff Cody on the situation and, after realizing the rabbits have escaped the mine, call in the National Guard. As night falls, the rabbits leave Galanos to continue the rampage, making their way to the main town of Ajo and eating and killing everybody in their pathway. Cole proposes using a half-mile wide stretch of electrified railroad track as a fence to contain and kill the rabbits. They recruit a large group of people at a drive in theater to help herd the rabbits with their car lights, with assistance from the machine gun fire of the National Guard.\n\nThousands of rabbits make their way into the trap, where they are shot and electrocuted. At the film's ending, Cole tells Roy that normal rabbits, as well as coyotes, have returned to the ranch. \n\nThe ending shows Roy and Gerry running on a grassy field where a normal rabbit is shown sitting on the grass just before the ending credits roll.\n\n\nIsaac Stanford Jolley makes an appearance as a dispatcher, while Jerry Dunphy has a cameo as a television newscaster.\n\nThe script for \"Night of the Lepus\" was based on Australian author Russell Braddon's science fiction novel \"The Year of the Angry Rabbit\" (1964). A. C. Lyles, known primarily for producing western films, would make \"Night of the Lepus\" his first and only science fiction production. To craft the film, he pulled together people he had worked with on other Westerns. Gene R. Kearney and Don Holliday were tasked with converting the novel to a screenplay. In doing so, they removed many aspects of the novel (the plot of which focused on Australia dominating the world with a superweapon inadvertently created through the rabbits), and moved its setting from Australia to Arizona. It was shot at the Old Tucson Studios in Tucson, Arizona, a site well known for its use in Western pictures. Filming began at the end of January 1972 and concluded in early March.\n\nAccording to Turner Classic Movies' David Kalat, the film's director William F. Claxton also came from a Western film background. In directing \"Night of the Lepus\", he applied the same techniques used in his other films and declined the use of \"standard\" horror effects that would have enhanced the atmosphere, such as \"canted camera angles, dark shadows, [and] eerie music.\" Rory Calhoun was cast as rancher Cole Hilman, whose ranch would be the start of the rabbit explosion. Well known for his western work, \"Night of the Lepus\" put him in unfamiliar territory as it was his first science fiction role, however, he found familiarity in the Western film trappings and his role as a rancher. Janet Leigh, who played Gerry Bennet, took the role because it was being filmed close to her own home, allowing her to travel home on weekends and allowing her family to visit her on the set. Though she felt the script \"read well\", she declined to allow her two children play minor roles as she did not want them to see or be part of any type of horror film. She would later state the film lacked an \"ideal director\" to bring the script to life, and the film failed, in part, because it was impossible to make a \"bunny rabbit menacing.\" Fellow \"The Rifleman\" actor Paul Fix was given the role of the sheriff of the town under siege, while DeForest Kelley, who frequently guest starred in Westerns, was cast as Elgin Clark, the college president who asked researchers to try to stop the rabbits.\n\nThe domesticated rabbits used in the film differed greatly in appearance from the wild rabbits that were plaguing the southwest at the time. In \"Night of the Lepus\", this was explained by stating that they were descended from recent rabbit farm escapees. To depict the rabbit attacks, a combination of techniques were used. For some scenes, the rabbits were filmed in close-up stomping on miniature structures in slow motion. For attack scenes, they had ketchup smeared on their faces. For other scenes, human actors were shown wearing rabbit costumes.\n\nOriginally titled \"Rabbits\", production company MGM renamed the film, using the Latin name for \"rabbit\" in hopes of keeping the audience from presuming the animals would be non-menacing. To further prevent the audience from thinking of cuddly bunnies in relation to the film, the theatrical posters featured no rabbits, instead displaying only eyes and referencing unnamed \"creatures\". The trailers showed no critters, and the press releases only mentioned that the film had \"mutants.\" The only clue given to the audience was the required acknowledgment on the poster to Braddon's novel. However, some \"Night of the Lepus\" promoters gave away the secret by sending out souvenirs decorated with rabbit's foot designs.\n\n\"Night of the Lepus\" was released theatrically on July 26, 1972. Its home video release did not come until 33 years later, when Warner Home Video released an edited version to Region 1 DVD on October 4, 2005.\n\nIn a July 1972 issue of \"The New York Times\" Vincent Canby wrote it was not an \"especially memorable movie\", that it was typical for the genre of science fiction horror, and that it failed because the rabbits, despite attempts to make them \"appear huge and scary, still look like Easter bunnies\". In an October 1972 issue, fellow critic Roger Greenspun panned it for not \"even reasonably try[ing]\" to make the rabbits scary, its reliance on \"tired clichés of monsterdom\", \"technical laziness\" in its special effects, \"stupid story\", and \"dumb direction that leaves the film in limbo\" between a horror film and a fairy tale. In the \"Monthly Film Bulletin\", Tom Milne felt \"Night of the Lepus\" had a promising beginning before moving into a \"well-worn horror groove\", such as the effort to trap Gerry and Amanda alone in a deserted area for a last-minute rescue. Noting that the film had \"a certain overall charm and several striking sequences\", he felt the film would have been more successful if it \"had the courage of its convictions – and its realism\". As an example, he points to the scene following the attack on the Calhoun ranch, in which Roy is walking into town, and tourists refuse to stop and pick him up because he has a gun. The tourists then go to the small town where the rabbits have killed everyone and are hiding in the buildings. Rather than becoming the next victims, the family call it a ghost town and leave. In the 1977 piece \"Dark Dreams 2.0: A Psychological History of the Modern Horror Film\", Charles Derry compared it to the earlier successful works \"The Birds\" and \"Willard\", particularly the former, noting that both featured a \"loveable creature\". Though he felt the special effects were poor, he felt \"Night of the Lepus\" successfully tied into ongoing fears of throwing ecology out of balance, with the rabbits serving as an appropriate metaphor for human fears about overpopulation.\n\nAllmovie's Jeremy Wheeler felt the film was \"all good, unintentionally campy fun\" and \"silly to its core\". Noting that the special effects were \"obvious\", he criticized the \"truly heinous dialogue\" and remarked that Leigh \"slums it\" by appearing in the film. In \"Stories Rabbits Tell: A Natural and Cultural History of a Misunderstood Creature\", Susan E. Davis and Margo DeMello considered the film an \"entertaining romp\", praising the \"alarmingly realistic\" circumstances behind the rabbit mutations, while criticizing the \"notoriously badly done\" special effects and the rabbits being made to \"roar\" during their attacks. Calling it \"one of [the] worse career moves\" for Kelley and Leigh, they criticized the ending in which all the rabbits were killed, calling them \"unwitting victims...of human attempts to control nature\". In his book \"Videohound's Horror Show: 999 Hair-Raising, Hellish, and Humorous Movies\", critic Mike Mayo panned the film, calling the script \"lame\", the scenes of the rabbits \"hopping around H0 scale sets in slow motion\" humorous, and the rabbits just not scary. He also criticized the principal performers, stating that the film featured a \"group of so-so character actors\", except Leigh who he considered a \"star\", and that all gave \"wooden performances\".\n\nJohn J. Puccio of DVDTown.com felt \"Night of the Lepus\" would have been better had it been an intentionally humorous horror spoof, rather than a legitimate attempt at making a horror film with killer rabbits. Stating that it was in the \"so-bad-it's-good\" category for only two minutes, he found the actors to be \"stiff and uninvolved\" in delivering their lines, and that it seemed more like an \"old television horse opera\" than a horror film with more slow-paced filler than action sequences, and the few bits of action ruined by the \"corniest possible 'action' music\". AMC Film Critic's Christopher Null states that it is famous as \"one of the worst films ever made\". He heavily criticizes Claxton, feeling that he \"just seems wholly incapable of making the movie remotely frightening, or even of making much sense\" and that the bad special effects \"make the entire film a huge joke\". Reviewing the title for Classic-Horror.com, Julia Merriam gave \"Night of the Lepus\" credit for attempting to be a \"socially-conscious eco-horror\", but criticized the slow pacing, bad dialog, poor editing with a heavy reliance on stock footage that did not appear to be from the same film, and senseless character actions such as entering a rabbit-filled cave just to photograph them. She also criticized the film's obvious use of people in rabbit suits, but concluded its biggest flaw was that \"fluffy bunnies just aren't scary\".\n\nIn \"Horror Films of the 1970s\", John Kenneth Muir felt \"Night of the Lepus\" was one of the \"most ridiculous horror film[s] ever conceived\", with a poor blend of horror and environmentalism that resulted in it being more of a comedy. He criticized the \"primitive special effects\", badly done editing and laughable dialogue, and noted that while the rabbits and actors are rarely seen on screen together, the filmmakers used obviously fake rabbit paws and people in rabbit suits for the few scenes calling for human/rabbit interactions. Like most critics, he pointed out that the rabbits were \"cute bunnies\" rather than \"fanged, disease-ridden mutated creatures\", but he felt the actors did the best they could with the material, and praised them for \"[keeping] straight faces as they heroically stand against the onslaught of the bunnies\".\n\nThe film was released on DVD-R by the Warner Archive Collection on November 10, 2011.\n\nThe film was released for the first time on Blu-ray by Scream Factory on June 12, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13675124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675124", "title": "Plant (control theory)", "text": "Plant (control theory)\n\nA plant in control theory is the combination of process and actuator. A plant is often referred to with a transfer function\n(not uncommonly in the s-domain) which indicates the relation between an input signal and the output signal of a system without feedback, commonly determined by physical properties of the system. An example would be an actuator with its transfer of the input of the actuator to its physical displacement. In a system with feedback, the plant still has the same transfer function, but a control unit and a feedback loop (with their respective transfer functions) are added to the system.\n"}
{"id": "885730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885730", "title": "Plot twist", "text": "Plot twist\n\nA plot twist is a literary technique that introduces a radical change in the direction or expected outcome of the plot in a work of fiction. When it happens near the end of a story, it is known as a twist or surprise ending. It may change the audience's perception of the preceding events, or introduce a new conflict that places it in a different context. A plot twist may be foreshadowed, to prepare the audience to accept it. There are a variety of methods used to execute a plot twist, such as withholding information from the audience or misleading them with ambiguous or false information.\n\nRevealing a plot twist to readers or viewers in advance is commonly regarded as a \"spoiler\", since the effectiveness of a plot twist usually relies on the audience not expecting it. Even revealing the fact that a work contains plot twists – especially at the ending – can also be controversial, as it changes the audience's expectations. However, at least one study suggests that this does not affect the enjoyment of a work.\n\nAn early example of the romance genre with multiple twists was the \"Arabian Nights\" tale \"The Three Apples\". It begins with a fisherman discovering a locked chest. The first twist occurs when the chest is broken open and a dead body is found inside. The initial search for the murderer fails, and a twist occurs when two men appear, separately claiming to be the murderer. A complex chain of events finally reveals the murderer to be the investigator's own slave.\n\nLiterary analysts have identified several common categories of plot twists, based on how they are executed.\n\n\"Anagnorisis\", or discovery, is the protagonist's sudden recognition of their own or another character's true identity or nature. Through this technique, previously unforeseen character information is revealed. A notable example of anagnorisis occurs in \"Oedipus Rex\": Oedipus kills his father and marries his mother in ignorance, learning the truth only toward the climax of the play. The earliest use of this device as a twist ending in a murder mystery was in \"The Three Apples\", a medieval \"Arabian Nights\" tale, where the protagonist Ja'far ibn Yahya discovers by chance a key item towards the end of the story that reveals the culprit behind the murder to be his own slave all along.\n\nIn M. Night Shyamalan's 1999 film \"The Sixth Sense\", a main character, who struggles with his failure to help a former patient who shot him, resolves his conflict by helping a boy who believes he communicates with dead people, only to discover that he didn't survive the shooting and is one of the dead people being helped. In the 2001 film \"The Others,\" a mother is convinced that her house is being haunted; at the end of the film, she learns that she and her children are really the ghosts. In the episode of \"The Twilight Zone\" titled \"Five Characters in Search of an Exit\", the viewer discovers at the climax that the characters are discarded toys in a donation bin. In \"Fight Club\", Edward Norton's character realizes that Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt) is his own multiple personality. A mental patient in the horror film \"The Ward\" reveals that the three persons she is talking to are all actually herself. Sometimes the audience may discover that the true identity of a character is, in fact, unknown, as in \"Layer Cake\" or the eponymous assassins in \"V for Vendetta\" and \"The Day of the Jackal\".\n\nFlashback, or analepsis, a sudden, vivid reversion to a past event., surprises the reader with previously unknown information that solves a mystery, places a character in a different light, or reveals the reason for a previously inexplicable action. The Alfred Hitchcock film \"Marnie\" employed this type of surprise ending. Sometimes this is combined with the above category, as the flashback may reveal the true identity of one of the characters, or that the protagonist is related to one of the villain's past victims, as Sergio Leone did with Charles Bronson's character in \"Once Upon a Time in the West\" or Frederick Forsyth's \"The Odessa File\". The TV series \"Boardwalk Empire\" and manga (twice made into a movie) \"Old Boy\" uses similar twists.\n\nAn unreliable narrator twists the ending by revealing, almost always at the end of the narrative, that the narrator has manipulated or fabricated the preceding story, thus forcing the reader to question their prior assumptions about the text. This motif is often used within noir fiction and films, notably in the film \"The Usual Suspects\". An unreliable narrator motif was employed by Agatha Christie in \"The Murder of Roger Ackroyd\", a novel that generated much controversy due to critics' contention that it was unfair to trick the reader in such a manipulative manner. Another example of unreliable narration is a character who has been revealed to be insane and thus causes the audience to question the previous narrative; notable examples of this are in the Terry Gilliam film \"Brazil\", Chuck Palahniuk's \"Fight Club\" (and David Fincher's film adaptation), Gene Wolfe's novel \"Book of the New Sun\", the second episode of \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\", \"Premonition\", Iain Pears's \"An Instance of the Fingerpost\", \"Shutter Island\" and Kim Newman's \"Life's Lottery\".\n\n\"Peripeteia\" is a sudden reversal of the protagonist's fortune, whether for good or ill, that emerges naturally from the character's circumstances. Unlike the \"deus ex machina\" device, peripeteia must be logical within the frame of the story. An example of a reversal for ill would be Agamemnon's sudden murder at the hands of his wife Clytemnestra in Aeschylus' \"The Oresteia\" or the inescapable situation Kate Hudson's character finds herself in at the end of \"The Skeleton Key\". This type of ending was a common twist ending utilised by \"The Twilight Zone\", most effectively in the episode \"Time Enough at Last\" where Burgess Meredith's character is robbed of all his hope by a simple but devastating accident with his glasses. A positive reversal of fortune would be Nicholas Van Orton's suicide attempt after mistakenly believing himself to have accidentally killed his brother, only to land safely in the midst of his own birthday party, in the film \"The Game\".\n\n\"Deus ex machina\" is a Latin term meaning \"god out of the machine.\" It refers to an unexpected, artificial or improbable character, device or event introduced suddenly in a work of fiction to resolve a situation or untangle a plot. In Ancient Greek theater, the \"deus ex machina\" ('ἀπὸ μηχανῆς θεός') was the character of a Greek god literally brought onto the stage via a crane (μηχανῆς—\"mechanes\"), after which a seemingly insoluble problem is brought to a satisfactory resolution by the god's will. In its modern, figurative sense, the \"deus ex machina\" brings about an ending to a narrative through unexpected (generally happy) resolution to what appears to be a problem that cannot be overcome (see Mel Brooks' \"History of the World, Part I\"). This device is often used to end a bleak story on a more positive note.\n\nPoetic justice is a literary device in which virtue is ultimately rewarded or vice punished in such a way that the reward or punishment has a logical connection to the deed. In modern literature, this device is often used to create an ironic twist of fate in which the villain gets caught up in his/her own trap. For example, in C. S. Lewis' \"The Horse and His Boy\", Prince Rabadash climbs upon a mounting block during the battle in Archenland. Upon jumping down while shouting \"The bolt of Tash falls from above,\" his hauberk catches on a hook and leaves him hanging there, humiliated and trapped. Another example of poetic justice can be found in John Boyne's \"The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas\", in which a concentration camp commander's son is mistakenly caught up with inmates rounded up for gassing, or in Chris Van Allsburg's picture book, \"The Sweetest Fig\", where a cold-hearted dentist is cruel to his dog, and ends up getting his comeuppance.\n\nChekhov's gun refers to a seemingly minor character or plot element introduced early in the narrative that suddenly acquires great importance to the narrative. One example of this is the beggar woman in \"\". At the end of the musical, she is revealed to be the main character's wife. A similar mechanism is the \"plant\", a preparatory device that repeats throughout the story. During the resolution, the true significance of the plant is revealed.\n\nA red herring is a false clue intended to lead investigators toward an incorrect solution. This device usually appears in detective novels and mystery fiction. The red herring is a type of misdirection, a device intended to distract the protagonist, and by extension the reader, away from the correct answer or from the site of pertinent clues or action. The Indian murder mystery film \"\" cast many veteran actors who had usually played villainous roles in previous Indian films as red herrings in this film to deceive the audience into suspecting them. In the bestselling novel \"The Da Vinci Code\", the misdeeds of a key character named \"Bishop Aringarosa\" draw attention away from the true master villain (\"Aringarosa\" literally translates as \"pink herring\"). In the William Diehl novel Primal Fear (also adapted into a film), a defendant named Aaron Stampler is accused of brutally murdering the Archbishop of Chicago. He is revealed to have a dissociative identity disorder, and is not executed on plea of insanity. Near the end, Aaron's lawyer discovers that he feigned his insanity to avoid the death penalty. Agatha Christie's classic \"And Then There Were None\" is another famous example and includes the term as well in a murder ploy where the intended victims are made to guess that one of them will be killed through an act of treachery. A red herring can also be used as a form of false foreshadowing.\n\nA false protagonist is a character presented at the start of the story as the main character, but then disposed of, usually killing them. An example is the film \"Executive Decision\", in which the special-forces team leader, played by highly-billed action star Steven Seagal, is killed shortly after their mission begins.\n\n\"In medias res\" (Latin for \"into the middle of things\") is a literary technique in which narrative proceeds from the middle of the story rather than its beginning. Information such as characterization, setting, and motive is revealed through a series of flashbacks. This technique creates a twist when the cause for the inciting incident is not revealed until the climax. This technique is used within the film \"The Prestige\" in which the opening scenes show one of the main characters drowning and the other being imprisoned. Subsequent scenes reveal the events leading up to these situations through a series of flashbacks. In \"Monsters\", a similar beginning proves to be a flashforward as it is the linear conclusion of the events that then follow; this is not apparent until the end. \"In medias res\" is often used to provide a narrative hook.\n\nA non-linear narrative works by revealing plot and character in non-chronological order. This technique requires the reader to attempt to piece together the timeline in order to fully understand the story. A twist ending can occur as the result of information that is held until the climax and which places characters or events in a different perspective. Some of the earliest known uses of non-linear story telling occur in \"The Odyssey\", a work that is largely told in flashback via the narrator Odysseus. The nonlinear approach has been used in works such as the films \"Mulholland Drive\", \"Sin City\", \"Premonition\", \"Arrival\", \"Pulp Fiction\", \"Memento\", \"Babel\", the television shows \"Lost\", \"How I Met Your Mother\" (especially in many episodes in the later seasons), \"Heroes\", \"Westworld\" and the book \"Catch-22\".\n\nReverse chronology works by revealing the plot in reverse order, i.e., from final event to initial event. Unlike chronological storylines, which progress through causes before reaching a final effect, reverse chronological storylines reveal the final effect before tracing the causes leading up to it; therefore, the initial cause represents a \"twist ending\". Examples employing this technique include the films \"Irréversible\", \"Memento\", \"Happy End\" and \"5x2\", the play \"Betrayal\" by Harold Pinter, and Martin Amis' \"Time's Arrow\". Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's Merrily We Roll Along and the 1934 Kaufman and Hart play that inspired it both tell the story of the main characters in reverse order.\n\n"}
{"id": "5767788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5767788", "title": "Problem of religious language", "text": "Problem of religious language\n\nThe problem of religious language considers whether it is possible to talk about God meaningfully if the traditional conceptions of God as being incorporeal, infinite, and timeless, are accepted. Because these traditional conceptions of God make it difficult to describe God, religious language has the potential to be meaningless. Theories of religious language either attempt to demonstrate that such language is meaningless, or attempt to show how religious language can still be meaningful.\n\nTraditionally, religious language has been explained as via negativa, analogy, symbolism, or myth, each of which describes a way of talking about God in human terms. The \"via negativa\" is a way of referring to God according to what God is not; analogy uses human qualities as standards against which to compare divine qualities; symbolism is used non-literally to describe otherwise ineffable experiences; and a mythological interpretation of religion attempts to reveal fundamental truths behind religious stories. Alternative explanations of religious language cast it as having political, performative, or imperative functions.\n\nEmpiricist David Hume's requirement that claims about reality must be verified by evidence influenced the logical positivist movement, particularly the philosopher A. J. Ayer. The movement proposed that, for a statement to hold meaning, it must be possible to verify its truthfulness empirically – with evidence from the senses. Consequently, the logical positivists argued that religious language must be meaningless because the propositions it makes are impossible to verify. Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein has been regarded as a logical positivist by some academics because he distinguished between things that can and cannot be spoken about; others have argued that he could not have been a logical positivist because he emphasised the importance of mysticism. British philosopher Antony Flew proposed a similar challenge based on the principle that, in so far as assertions of religious belief cannot be empirically falsified, religious statements are rendered meaningless.\n\nThe analogy of games – most commonly associated with Ludwig Wittgenstein – has been proposed as a way of establishing meaning in religious language. The theory asserts that language must be understood in terms of a game: just as each game has its own rules determining what can and cannot be done, so each context of language has its own rules determining what is and is not meaningful. Religion is classified as a possible and legitimate language game which is meaningful within its own context. Various parables have also been proposed to solve the problem of meaning in religious language. R. M. Hare used his parable of a lunatic to introduce the concept of \"bliks\" – unfalsifiable beliefs according to which a worldview is established – which are not necessarily meaningless. Basil Mitchell used a parable to show that faith can be logical, even if it seems unverifiable. John Hick used his parable of the Celestial City to propose his theory of eschatological verification, the view that if there is an afterlife, then religious statements will be verifiable after death.\n\nReligious language is a philosophical problem arising from the difficulties in accurately describing God. Because God is generally conceived as incorporeal, infinite, and timeless, ordinary language cannot always apply to that entity. This makes speaking about or attributing properties to God difficult: a religious believer might simultaneously wish to describe God as good, yet also hold that God's goodness is unique and cannot be articulated by human language of goodness. This raises the problem of how (and whether) God can be meaningfully spoken about at all, which causes problems for religious belief since the ability to describe and talk about God is important in religious life. The French philosopher Simone Weil expressed this problem in her work \"Waiting for God\", in which she outlined her dilemma: she was simultaneously certain of God's love and conscious that she could not adequately describe him.\n\nThe medieval doctrine of divine simplicity also poses problems for religious language. This suggests that God has no accidental properties – these are properties that a being can have which do not contribute to its essence. If God has no accidental properties, he cannot be as he is traditionally conceived, because properties such as goodness are accidental. If divine simplicity is accepted, then to describe God as good would entail that goodness and God have the same definition. Such limits can also be problematic to religious believers; for example, the Bible regularly ascribes different emotions to God, ascriptions which would be implausible according to the doctrine of divine simplicity.\n\nThe theologian Sallie McFague believes that the more recent problem of religious language is based on individual experience, owing to the increased secularisation of society. She notes that human experience is of this world rather than regular encounters with the divine, which makes the experience of God uncommon and potentially unnecessary. Because of this, she argues, religious language is both idolatrous because it fails to express sufficient awe of God, and irrelevant because without adequate words it becomes meaningless.\n\nJewish philosopher Maimonides believed that God can only be ascribed negative attributes, a view based on two fundamental Jewish beliefs: that the existence of God must be accepted, and that it is forbidden to describe God. Maimonides believed that God is simple and so cannot be ascribed any essential attributes. He therefore argued that statements about God must be taken negatively, for example, \"God lives\" should be taken as \"God does not lack vitality\". Maimonides did not believe that God holds all of his attributes perfectly and without impairment; rather, he proposed that God lies outside of any human measures. To say that God is powerful, for example, would mean that God's power is beyond worldly power, and incomparable to any other power. In doing so, Maimonides attempted to illustrate God's indescribable nature and draw attention to the linguistic limits of describing God.\n\nThomas Aquinas argued that statements about God are analogous to human experience. An analogous term is partly univocal (has only one meaning) and partly equivocal (has more than one potential meaning) because an analogy is in some ways the same and in some ways different from the subject. He proposed that those godly qualities which resemble human qualities are described analogously, with reference to human terms; for example, when God is described as good, it does not mean that God is good in human terms, but that human goodness is used as a reference to describe God's goodness.\n\nPhilosopher Taede Smedes argued that religious language is symbolic. Denying any conflict between science and religion, he proposes that 'to believe' means to accept a conviction (that God exists, in the context of Christianity), which is different from 'knowing', which only occurs once something is proven. Thus, according to Smedes, we believe things that we do not know for sure. Smedes argues that, rather than being part of the world, God is so far beyond the world that there can be no common standard to which both God and the world can be compared. He argues that people can still believe in God, even though he cannot be compared to anything in the world, because belief in God is just an alternative way of viewing that world (he likens this to two people viewing a painting differently). Smedes claims that there should be no reason to look for a meaning behind our metaphors and symbols of God because the metaphors are all we have of God. He suggests that we can only talk of God \"pro nobis\" (for us) and not \"in se\" (as such) or \"sine nobis\" (without us). The point, he argues, is not that our concept of God should correspond with reality, but that we can only conceive of God through metaphors.\n\nIn the twentieth century, Ian Ramsey developed the theory of analogy, a development later cited in numerous works by Alister McGrath. He argued that various models of God are provided in religious writings that interact with each other: a range of analogies for salvation and the nature of God. Ramsey proposed that the models used modify and qualify each other, defining the limits of other analogies. As a result, no one analogy on its own is sufficient, but the combination of every analogy presented in Scripture gives a full and consistent depiction of God. The use of other analogies may then be used to determine if any one model of God is abused or improperly applied.\n\nPhilosopher Paul Tillich argued that religious faith is best expressed through symbolism because a symbol points to a meaning beyond itself and best expresses transcendent religious beliefs. He believed that any statement about God is symbolic and participates in the meaning of a concept. Tillich used the example of a national flag to illustrate his point: a flag points to something beyond itself, the country it represents, but also participates in the meaning of the country. He believed that symbols could unite a religious believer with a deeper dimension of himself as well as with a greater reality. Tillich believed that symbols must emerge from an individual collective unconsciousness, and can only function when they are accepted by the unconscious. He believed that symbols cannot be invented, but live and die at the appropriate times.\n\nLouis Dupré differentiates between signs and symbols, proposing that a sign points to something while a symbol represents it. A symbol holds its own meaning: rather than merely pointing someone towards another object, it takes the place of and represents that object. He believes that a symbol has some ambiguity which does not exist with a sign. Dupré believes that a symbol may deserve respect because it contains what is signified within itself. A symbol reveals a reality beyond what is already perceived and transforms the ways the current reality is perceived. Dupré differentiates between religious and aesthetic symbols, suggesting that a religious symbol points towards something which \"remains forever beyond our reach\". He proposed that a religious symbol does not reveal the nature of what it signifies, but conceals it.\n\nLangdon Brown Gilkey explained religious language and experience in terms of symbolism, identifying three characteristic features of religious symbolism which distinguish it from other language use. Firstly, religious symbolism has a double focus, referring both to something empirical and to something transcendent; Gilkey argued that the empirical manifestation points towards the transcendent being. Secondly, he believed that religious symbolism concerns fundamental questions of life, involving issues important to an individual or community. Finally, he argued that religious symbols provide standards by which life should be lived.\n\nIn the Sikh religious text the Guru Granth Sahib, religious language is used symbolically and metaphorically. In the text, Sikh Gurus repeat that the experiences they have while meditating are ineffable, incognizable, incomprehensible, and transensuous – this means that there is no object of their experience that can be conceptualised. To overcome this, the Sikh Gurus used symbolic and metaphorical language, assuming that there is a resemblance between the mystical experience of the divine (the sabad) and those experiencing it. For example, light is used to refer to the spiritual reality.\n\nWilliam Paden argued that religious language uses myth to present truths through stories. He argued that to those who practice a religion, myths are not mere fiction, but provide religious truths. Paden believed that a myth must explain something in the world with reference to a sacred being or force, and dismissed any myths which did not as \"folktales\". Using the example of creation myths, he differentiated myths from scientific hypotheses, the latter of which can be scientifically verified and do not reveal a greater truth; a myth cannot be analysed in the same way as a scientific theory.\n\nLutheran theologian Rudolf Bultmann proposed that the Bible contains existential content which is expressed through mythology; Bultmann sought to find the existential truths behind the veil of mythology, a task known as 'demythologising'. Bultmann distinguished between informative language and language with personal import, the latter of which commands obedience. He believed that God interacts with humans as the divine Word, perceiving a linguistic character inherent in God, which seeks to provide humans with self-understanding. Bultmann believed that the cultural embeddedness of the Bible could be overcome by demythologising the Bible, a process which he believed would allow readers to better encounter the word of God.\n\nChristian philosopher John Hick believed that the language of the Bible should be demythologised to be compatible with naturalism. He offered a demythologised Christology, arguing that Jesus was not God incarnate, but a man with incredible experience of divine reality. To Hick, calling Jesus the Son of God was a metaphor used by Jesus' followers to describe their commitment to what Jesus represented. Hick believed that demythologising the incarnation would make sense of the variety of world religions and give them equal validity as ways to encounter God.\n\nIslamic philosopher Carl Ernst has argued that religious language is often political, especially in the public sphere, and that its purpose is to persuade people and establish authority, as well as convey information. He explains that the modern criticisms of the West made by some sections of Islam are an ideological reaction to colonialism, which intentionally uses the same language as colonialists. Ernst argues that when it is used rhetorically, religious language cannot be taken at face value because of its political implications.\n\nPeter Donovan argues that most religious language is not about making truth-claims; instead, it is used to achieve certain goals. He notes that language can be used in alternative ways beyond making statements of fact, such as expressing feelings or asking questions. Donovan calls many of these uses \"performative\", as they serve to perform a certain function within religious life. For example, the words \"I promise\" perform the action of promising themselves – Donovan argues that most religious language fulfils this function. Ludwig Wittgenstein also proposed that language could be performative and presented a list of the different uses of language. Wittgenstein argued that \"the meaning of the language is in the use\", taking the use of language to be performative. The philosopher J. L. Austin argued that religious language is not just cognitive but can perform social acts, including vows, blessings, and the naming of children. He distinguished performative statements as those that do not simply describe a state of affairs, but bring them about. Historian of religion Benjamin Ray uses the performance of rituals within religions as evidence for a performative interpretation of language. He argues that the language of rituals can perform social tasks: when a priest announces that a spiritual event has occurred, those present believe it because of the spiritual authority of the priest. He believed that the meaning of a ritual is defined by the language used by the speaker, who is defined culturally as a superhuman agent.\n\nBritish philosopher R. B. Braithwaite attempted to approach religious language empirically and adopted Wittgenstein's idea of \"meaning as use\". He likened religious statements to moral statements because they are both non-descriptive yet still have a use and a meaning; they do not describe the world, but the believer's attitudes towards it. Braithwaite believed that the main difference between a religious and a moral statement was that religious statements are part of a linguistic system of stories, metaphors, and parables.\n\nProfessor Nathan Katz writes of the analogy of a burning building, used by the Buddha in the Lotus Sutra, which casts religious language as imperative. In the analogy, a father sees his children at the top of a burning building. He persuades them to leave, but only by promising them toys if they leave. Katz argues that the message of the parable is not that the Buddha has been telling lies; rather, he believes that the Buddha was illustrating the imperative use of language. Katz believes that religious language is an imperative and an invitation, rather than a truth-claim.\n\nIn the conclusion of his \"Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\", Scottish philosopher David Hume argued that statements that make claims about reality must be verified by experience, and dismissed those that cannot be verified as meaningless. Hume regarded most religious language as unverifiable by experiment and so dismissed it.\n\nHume criticised the view that we cannot speak about God, and proposed that this view is no different from the skeptical view that God cannot be spoken about. He was unconvinced by Aquinas' theory of analogy and argued that God's attributes must be completely different from human attributes, making comparisons between the two impossible. Hume's scepticism influenced the logical positivist movement of the twentieth century.\n\nThe logical positivism movement originated in the Vienna Circle and was continued by British philosopher A. J. Ayer. The Vienna Circle adopted the distinction between analytic and synthetic statements: analytic statements are those whose meaning is contained within the words themselves, such as definitions, tautologies or mathematical statements, while synthetic statements make claims about reality. To determine whether a synthetic statement is meaningful, the Vienna Circle developed a verifiability theory of meaning, which proposed that for a synthetic statement to have cognitive meaning, its truthfulness must be empirically verifiable. Because claims about God cannot be empirically verified, the logical positivists argued that religious propositions are meaningless.\n\nIn 1936, Ayer wrote \"Language, Truth and Logic\", in which he claimed that religious language is meaningless. He put forward a strong empirical position, arguing that all knowledge must either come from observations of the world or be necessarily true, like mathematical statements. In doing so, he rejected metaphysics, which considers the reality of a world beyond the natural world and science. Because it is based on metaphysics and is therefore unverifiable, Ayer denounced religious language, as well as statements about ethics or aesthetics, as meaningless. Ayer challenged the meaningfulness of all statements about God – theistic, atheistic and agnostic – arguing that they are all equally meaningless because they all discuss the existence of a metaphysical, unverifiable being.\n\nAustrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein finished his \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" with the proposition that \"Whereof one cannot speak, thereof one must be silent.\" Beverly and Brian Clack have suggested that because of this statement, Wittgenstein was taken for a positivist by many of his disciples because he made a distinction between what can and cannot be spoken about. They argue that this interpretation is inaccurate because Wittgenstein held the \"mystical\", which cannot be described, as important. Rather than dismissing the mystical as meaningless, as the logical positivists did, Wittgenstein believed that while the facts of the world remain the same, the perspective from which they are viewed will vary.\n\nThe falsification principle has been developed as an alternative theory by which it may be possible to distinguish between those religious statements that may potentially have meaning, and those that are meaningless. It proposes that most religious language is unfalsifiable because there is no way that it could be empirically proven false. In a landmark paper published in 1945, analytic philosopher Antony Flew argued that a meaningful statement must simultaneously assert and deny a state of affairs; for example, the statement \"God loves us\" both asserts that God loves us and denies that God does not love us. Flew maintained that if a religious believer could not say what circumstances would have to exist for their statements about God to be false, then they are unfalsifiable and meaningless.\n\nUsing John Wisdom's parable of the invisible gardener, Flew attempted to demonstrate that religious language is unfalsifiable. The parable tells the story of two people who discover a garden on a deserted island; one believes it is tended to by a gardener, the other believes that it formed naturally, without the existence of a gardener. The two watch out for the gardener but never find him; the non-believer consequently maintains that there is no gardener, whereas the believer rationalises the non-appearance by suggesting that the gardener is invisible and cannot be detected. Flew contended that if the believer's interpretation is accepted, nothing is left of the original gardener. He argued that religious believers tend to adopt counterpart rationalisations in response to any apparent challenge to their beliefs from empirical evidence; and these beliefs consequently suffer a \"death by a thousand qualifications\" as they are qualified and modified so much that they end up asserting nothing meaningful. Flew applied his principles to religious claims such as God's love for humans, arguing that if they are meaningful assertions they would deny a certain state of affairs. He argued that when faced with evidence against the existence of a loving God, such as the terminal illness of a child, theists will qualify their claims to allow for such evidence; for example they may suggest that God's love is different from human love. Such qualifications, Flew argued, make the original proposition meaningless; he questioned what God's love actually promises and what it guarantees against, and proposed that God's qualified love promises nothing and becomes worthless.\n\nFlew continued in many subsequent publications to maintain the falsifiability criterion for meaning; but in later life retracted the specific assertion in his 1945 paper that all religious language is unfalsifiable, and so meaningless. Drawing specifically on the emerging science of molecular genetics (which had not existed at the time of his original paper), Flew eventually became convinced that the complexity this revealed in the mechanisms of biological reproduction might not be consistent with the time known to have been available for evolution on Earth to have happened; and that this potentially suggested a valid empirical test by which the assertion \"that there is no creator God\" might be falsified; \"the latest work I have seen shows that the present physical universe gives too little time for these theories of abiogenesis to get the job done.\"\n\nThe analogy of a game was first proposed by Hans-Georg Gadamer in an attempt to demonstrate the epistemic unity of language. He suggested that language is like a game which everyone participates in and is played by a greater being. Gadamer believed that language makes up the fundamental structure of reality and that human language participates in a greater language; Christianity teaches this to be the divine word which created the world and was incarnate in Jesus Christ.\n\nLudwig Wittgenstein proposed a calculus theory of language, which maintained that all language should be analysable in a uniform way. Later in his life he rejected this theory, and instead proposed an alternative language-game analogy. He likened the differences in languages to the differences in games, arguing that just as there are many different games, each with different rules, so there are many different kinds of language. Wittgenstein argued that different forms of language have different rules which determine what makes a proposition meaningful; outside of its language-game, a proposition is meaningless. He believed that the meaning of a proposition depends on its context and the rules of that context. Wittgenstein presented a language game as a situation in which certain kinds of language are used. He provided some examples of language games: \"Asking, thanking, greeting, cursing, praying\".\n\nWittgenstein believed that religion is significant because it offers a particular way of life, rather than confirming the existence of God. He therefore believed that religious language is confessional – a confession of what someone feels and believes – rather than consisting of claims to truth. Wittgenstein believed that religious language is different from language used to describe physical objects because it occupies a different language game.\n\nDewi Zephaniah Phillips defended Wittgenstein's theory by arguing that although religious language games are autonomous, they should not be treated as isolated because they make statements about secular events such as birth and death. Phillips argued that because of this connection, religions can still be criticised based on human experiences of these secular events. He maintained that religion cannot be denounced as wrong because it is not empirical.\n\nPeter Donovan criticises the language-games approach for failing to recognise that religions operate in a world containing other ideas and that many religious people make claims to truth. He notes that many religious believers not only believe their religion to be meaningful and true in its own context, but claim that it is true against all other possible beliefs; if the language games analogy is accepted, such a comparison between beliefs is impossible. Donovan proposes that debates between different religions, and the apologetics of some, demonstrates that they interact with each other and the wider world and so cannot be treated as isolated language games.\n\nIn response to Flew's falsification principle, British philosopher R. M. Hare told a parable in an attempt to demonstrate that religious language is meaningful. Hare described a lunatic who believes that all university professors want to kill him; no amount of evidence of kindly professors will dissuade him from this view. Hare called this kind of unfalsifiable conviction a \"blik\", and argued that it formed an unfalsifiable, yet still meaningful, worldview. He proposed that all people – religious and non-religious – hold bliks, and that they cannot be unseated by empirical evidence. Nevertheless, he maintained that a blik is meaningful because it forms the basis of a person's understanding of the world. Hare believed that some bliks are correct and others are not, though he did not propose a method of distinguishing between the two.\n\nBasil Mitchell responded to Flew's falsification principle with his own parable. He described an underground resistance soldier who meets a stranger who claims to be leading the resistance movement. The stranger tells the soldier to keep faith in him, even if he is seen to be fighting for the other side. The soldier's faith is regularly tested as he observes the stranger fighting for both sides, but his faith remains strong. Mitchell's parable teaches that although evidence can challenge a religious belief, a believer still has reason to hold their views. He argued that although a believer will not allow anything to count decisively against his beliefs, the theist still accepts the existence of evidence which could count against religious belief.\n\nResponding to the verification principle, John Hick used his parable of the Celestial City to describe his theory of eschatological verificationism. His parable is of two travellers, a theist and an atheist, together on a road. The theist believes that there is a Celestial City at the end of the road; the atheist believes that there is no such city. Hick's parable is an allegory of the Christian belief in an afterlife, which he argued can be verified upon death. Hick believed that eschatological verification is \"unsymmetrical\" because while it could be verified if it is true, it cannot be falsified if not. This is in contrast to ordinary \"symmetrical\" statements, which can be verified or falsified.\n\nIn his biography of Hick, David Cheetham notes a criticism of Hick's theory: waiting for eschatological verification could make religious belief provisional, preventing total commitment to faith. Cheetham argues that such criticism is misapplied because Hick's theory was not directed to religious believers but to philosophers, who argued that religion is unverifiable and therefore meaningless.\n\nJames Morris notes that Hick's eschatological verification theory has been criticised for being inconsistent with his belief in religious pluralism. Morris argues that such criticism can be overcome by modifying Hick's parable to include multiple travellers, all with different beliefs, on the road. He argues that even if some beliefs about life after death are unverifiable, Hick's belief in bodily resurrection can still be verified.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1836571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1836571", "title": "Star Cops", "text": "Star Cops\n\nStar Cops is a British science fiction television series first broadcast on BBC2 in 1987. It was devised by Chris Boucher, a writer who had previously worked on the science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\" and \"Blake's 7\" as well as crime dramas such as \"Juliet Bravo\" and \"Bergerac\". Set in the year 2027, a time where Interplanetary travel has become commonplace, it starred David Calder as Nathan Spring, commander of the International Space Police Force—nicknamed the \"Star Cops\"—who provide law enforcement for the newly developing colonies of the Solar System. The series follows Nathan Spring and the rest of his multinational team as they work to establish the Star Cops and solve whatever crimes come their way. Operating in a relatively accurately realised hard SF, near-future, space environment, many of the cases that the Star Cops investigate arise from opportunities for new crimes presented by the technologically advanced future society the series depicts and from the hostile frontier nature of the environment that the Star Cops live in.\n\nIn total nine episodes of \"Star Cops\" were made. A tenth episode, titled \"Death on the Moon\", was planned but industrial relations difficulties during production led to it being abandoned shortly before recording was to commence. A combination of factors, including conflict between Boucher and producer Evgeny Gridneff and poor scheduling, meant that the series never found a satisfactory audience and the series was cancelled after one season. In recent years, \"Star Cops\" has undergone something of a critical re-appraisal and is generally hailed for being \"a pretty good attempt at a moderately realistic \"\" SF series\". Big Finish announced in November 2017 that they would be releasing new Star Cops audio plays starring some of the surviving original cast members, beginning in 2018.\n\n\"Star Cops\" is set in the year 2027—some 40 years into the future at time of broadcast—a time in which space travel has become common and mankind is in the process of exploiting and colonising the Solar System. There are five permanently manned space stations orbiting the Earth and there are bases on the Moon and Mars. Approximately 3,000 people are living and working in space. This near future setting was influenced by the potential for greater access to space promised by the burgeoning Space Shuttle programme and by the militarisation of space through the US Government's Strategic Defense Initiative programme (also known as \"Star Wars\") both of which were underway in the early 1980s. Accordingly, space travel and life in space is portrayed in a realistic manner with depictions of weightlessness and low gravity environments and lengthy space journeys (months or years in cases of interplanetary travel) as well as hazards such as spacesuit failures, radiation exposure and explosive decompression. This air of realism has led to \"Star Cops\" being frequently compared with the 1973 BBC drama series \"Moonbase 3\". Similarly, the pioneering spirit evoked by the process of colonising the Solar System seen in the series has led to comparisons with the Western genre among many commentators.\n\nLaw and order is provided by the International Space Police Force (ISPF), twenty part-time volunteers disparagingly nicknamed the \"Star Cops\". The decision has been made to put the ISPF on a permanent full-time footing and a new commander, Nathan Spring, has been appointed to accomplish this. Many of the series episodes deal with Spring's efforts to establish the Star Cops—he sets up a base of operations on the Moonbase, recruits new staff, roots out and dismisses corrupt officers and works to extend the Star Cops' reach first into the American space stations and then, at the end of the series, the far-flung reaches of the Mars colonies, all the while investigating whatever crimes occur along the way.\n\nMany of the crimes that the Star Cops investigate have a science fiction \"twist\" to them arising from the unconventional (for a police show) environment the series is set e.g. a murder in which the two victims are not yet dead, a ransom demand for kidnapped embryos, a hoax discovery of an alien civilisation, etc. It is out of these scenarios that one of the major themes of the series emerges: the conflict between human emotion and morality on the one hand and machine logic and rogue science on the other.\n\nAnother major theme of the series is the \"sins of the father\": Spring's first assignment as a detective was to arrest his father for industrial espionage, the villain in \"Intelligent Listening for Beginners\" is motivated by his inability to match his father's reputation, Spring's deputy, David Theroux, watched his father die of radiation poisoning, the kidnapper in \"A Double Life\" is seeking revenge for his father's murder and Star Cop Anna Shoun betrays the multinational company which employs her (and with whom she has a paternal relationship) when she discovers their unethical behaviour.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChris Boucher began his television writing career in comedy, working on such programmes as \"Dave Allen at Large\" and \"Romany Jones\", before moving on to write for drama series, including \"Shoestring\", \"Juliet Bravo\" and \"Bergerac\". He was no stranger to television science fiction, having written three serials for \"Doctor Who\" and having acted as script editor on the entire four season run of \"Blake's 7\" as well as writing nine episodes for it himself. Boucher originally pitched \"Star Cops\" to the BBC in 1981 as a radio series but, with James Follet's epic \"Earthsearch\" serial in production that year, it was felt that science fiction was adequately served in the schedules and so Boucher tried to sell it to television instead. He sent the draft script of the first \"Star Cops\" story to Jonathan Powell, the Head of Drama at BBC television. Powell responded asking Boucher to write a second script and on the strength of this the series was commissioned. However, Powell insisted that the first story, which Boucher had intended to run over two episodes, be reworked into a single episode. This would be the first of many difficulties Boucher would have with how \"Star Cops\" was eventually realised for the screen. Boucher, who at this time was working as script editor on the crime series \"Bergerac\", was also told by Powell he could work on \"Star Cops\" or on \"Bergerac\" but not on both and so chose to leave \"Bergerac\".\n\nAssigned to produce \"Star Cops\" was Evgeny Gridneff, who had previously worked for the BBC on \"Tenko\", \"Blott on the Landscape\" and \"Hold the Back Page\". Gridneff and Boucher clashed over their respective visions for the series from the outset when, on their first meeting, Gridneff told Boucher that all his scripts would have to be rewritten. Boucher later remarked that their \"relationship started out at the bottom and worked its way down\".\n\nBoucher had intended to write all ten scripts for the series himself but the tight timescale under which the episodes had to be recorded meant he could only contribute five, with the rest written by John Collee (three scripts) and Philip Martin (two scripts). Having previously qualified and worked as a doctor, Collee was a journalist who wrote for \"The Observer\" newspaper and later moved into films, most notably writing the screenplay for \"\". Martin was an experienced scriptwriter, best known for the controversial BBC drama series \"Gangsters\", with previous experience in television science fiction, having written for \"Doctor Who\". Two directors were assigned to the show: Christopher Baker, who had worked with Gridneff before on \"Hold the Back Page\" as well as BBC veterinarian dramas \"All Creatures Great and Small\" and \"One by One\", and Graeme Harper who had directed two \"Doctor Who\" stories.\n\nAt the time, most British television drama was shot on a combination of film and videotape. Usually location shooting would be on film and studio work would be recorded on video. The effect of the change in medium from film to video (or vice versa) during a scene change in a programme could be jarring for some viewers. Boucher structured his scripts carefully so that all the Earth-based scenes would be shot on film on location and all the space scenes would be recorded on video in the studio hoping that the effect would give the space scenes a unique look. He was disappointed, therefore, to discover that Gridneff had decided to record the entire series on videotape.\n\nCast as Nathan Spring was David Calder, an experienced character actor with a reputation for \"tough-guy\" roles and best known at the time for his role as Detective Inspector George Resnick in the Lynda La Plante television serial \"Widows\". Naming him Nathan after his youngest son, Boucher had originally written Spring as a much younger character, a high-flyer in his early thirties who had risen rapidly through the ranks of the police. Despite this Boucher was pleased with Calder's performance describing Calder as \"a class act\" whose \"performance was immaculate\". Trevor Cooper was cast as Colin Devis at the suggestion of Graeme Harper who had worked with him on \"Doctor Who\" and in theatre. The rest of the cast, with the exception of Jonathan Adams (who had a semi-regular role on \"Bergerac\"), were relatively unknown.\n\nGiven that the series was set in the relatively near future, Gridneff took great pains to ensure that the space scenes were depicted as accurately as possible, seeking advice from NASA and other space agencies as well as arranging a set visit by astronaut Pete Conrad, the third man to set foot on the Moon. Conrad's input proved useful in making the scenes set in weightlessness as convincing as the budget would allow. Assistance was also received from an aerospace manufacturer, the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, who provided stock footage of astronauts training in a water tank and received an on-screen credit on the first episode \"An Instinct for Murder\".\n\nRecording of the series began on 12 August 1986 with the first block of episodes—\"An Instinct for Murder\", \"Conversations with the Dead\" and \"Intelligent Listening for Beginners\"—directed by Christopher Baker. This was followed by a block directed by Graeme Harper comprising \"Trivial Games and Paranoid Pursuits\", \"This Case to be Opened in a Million Years\" and \"In Warm Blood\". Christopher Baker then returned to the director's chair for \"A Double Life\" and \"Other People's Secrets\". Both directors had differing visions for the overall look and feel of the series, with the initial block directed by Baker favouring a pristine, brightly lit approach. This contrasted with the look preferred by Graeme Harper who drastically reduced the light levels (leaving many scenes illuminated only by computer monitor screens) and whose designer, Malcolm Thornton, dressed the sets in a messier and dingier fashion. When Baker returned for his second block of episodes, he sought to return to the brighter, cleaner look which led to some continuity problems. Meanwhile, Evgeny Gridneff and Chris Boucher's professional relationship continued to be stormy with Gridneff deciding to introduce a new Star Cop, Anna Shoun, without consulting Boucher. The cast and crew were well aware of the behind the scenes conflicts and David Calder later recalled that there was \"uncertainty as to which direction this series should go in\". Chris Boucher has been frequently critical of the way in which the series was realised and has since stated that, in retrospect, he wishes he had volunteered to produce the series himself. In response to Boucher's criticisms, Gridneff has said, \"I respect him as a writer and he's professional and, you know, it's his series and if it didn't quite go the way he thought, you know, that's unfortunate when you're dealing, you know, you're losing your baby\".\n\nThe final block was to be directed by Graeme Harper and would comprise the final two episodes \"Death on the Moon\", written by Philip Martin, and \"Information Received\", written by Chris Boucher. However industrial action at the BBC affected \"Star Cops\" and many other BBC programmes leaving a backlog of programmes once the strike had ended. Forced to prioritise and despite the fact that the episode had been cast, costumes made and sets constructed, the decision was taken to drop \"Death on the Moon\" and bring \"Information Received\", now titled \"Little Green Men and Other Martians\", forward. The three-day recording block for this episode began on 16 February 1987 just two days after recording of episode 8 had finished. Recording was further complicated when Erick Ray Evans fell ill and his lines had to split amongst the rest of the cast at the last minute with most of Theroux's dialogue going to Pal Kenzy. Production on \"Star Cops\" finally wrapped on 18 February 1987.\n\nThe theme song for the series, titled \"It Won't be Easy\", was written and performed by Justin Hayward, the lead vocalist with the Moody Blues. The theme was produced by record producer Tony Visconti who also composed, with Hayward, the incidental music for every episode. Gridneff hoped that the theme would act as a gentle method of enticing casual viewers into the series. Reaction to the music and Hayward's song in particular, has generally been negative. \"SFX\" magazine, in particular, has been highly critical of the theme tune: in one issue it was placed twenty-ninth in a list article titled \"The 50 Worst Things About SF Ever!\" while in another it was placed sixth in a list article titled \"The 10 Worst Things About UK Telefantasy\". Writer and critic Kim Newman has described the theme as the \"worst single theme tune of any TV show ever\". Chris Boucher has said that he \"hated the music. The incidental music wasn't appropriate and it didn't have the style and feeling it should have had\".\n\n\"Star Cops\" was broadcast on Monday nights at around 8:30pm starting on 6 July 1987 on BBC2. Competition was provided on BBC One by sitcom \"Terry and June\" and \"The Nine O'Clock News\". The fifth episode, \"This Case to be Opened in a Million Years\", was broadcast at the later time of 9.55pm. The BBC listings magazine \"Radio Times\" promoted the series, giving it the front cover of the 4–10 July 1987 edition accompanied by a four-page article by Johnny Black inside. \"Star Cops\" performed poorly in the ratings with an average audience across the series of only 2.2 million viewers. Chris Boucher has blamed the poor ratings on the timeslot the show was given, stating: \"There is nothing that has ever gone out on BBC 2 at half-past eight until twenty-past nine; it's a grotesque period. It doesn't synch with anything on BBC 1; it just doesn't work in relation to anything. You had to badly want to see \"Star Cops\" in order to watch it because you had to sacrifice at least two hours of viewing to see it. I can see why people didn't want to have that problem.\". He has also commented that the poor timeslot and the decision to air the series in July and August (a time when viewing figures are traditionally lower due to the summer) reflected the fact that \"Star Cops\" didn't have the confidence of the BBC management. This view is echoed by star David Calder who has described the timeslot as \"an act of sabotage and absurdity\".\n\nCritical reaction to the show was generally negative: writing in \"The Times\" following the broadcast of \"Conversations with the Dead\", Andrew Hislop wrote that \"\"Star Cops\" has neither the campiness of \"Star Trek\" nor the imagination of \"Dr. Who\" to overcome its technological limitations\". Also in \"The Times\", reviewing \"Intelligent Listening for Beginners\", Martin Cropper found that \"some of the individual plot-lines show invention of a sort, but the script is uniformly feeble\". Meanwhile, in \"The Sunday Times\", Patrick Stoddart was confused by the plot of \"This Case to be Opened in a Million Years\" asking readers \"if you are following any of this, please write to me and explain\". Letter writers to the \"Radio Times\" were split on the merits of the show: some such as P. Tricker of Alpheton, Suffolk praising it for having \"brilliant special effects, well-written scripts and actors who were convincing\" while others like Martin Bower of Allendale, Northumberland slated the \"dated designs, poor music [and] cheap sets\" and P. Curwen of Balloch, Dunbartonshire described it as \"boring – too much talk and not enough action\". Science fiction fandom at the time was more positive with Anthony McKay in \"Time Screen\" describing the series as \"one of the most refreshing telefantasy series for years\" while the British Science Fiction Association gave the show their Media Award in 1987.\n\"The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction\" stated \"the low-key realism of the show was efficient enough\" but argued, in\nthe end, that \"Star Cops\" \"failed to imagine the future with any real vividness or depth\". \nThe low ratings doomed the show to a single season and, although admired, it has never developed a significant following among science fiction aficionados. Boucher has stated that, in retrospect, he feels that the series was too outlandish for crime drama fans and not outlandish enough for science fiction fans and that ultimately it appealed to neither.\n\nWhen recording was completed, Gridneff asked Boucher if he had any ideas for a further season of \"Star Cops\". Boucher felt that were the series to continue he would like to extend the setting further out into the Solar System, visiting the Mars colonies and the Big Ring space colonies under construction. He intended to achieve this either by transferring one of the existing regular characters to the Mars colony or by introducing a new regular who would be based there. The second season was never developed beyond these few basic notions as it was clear to Boucher from an early stage that there was little prospect of the series being renewed. Following \"Star Cops\", Boucher went on to work as script editor on the long-running ITV police drama \"The Bill\" before returning to freelance writing while Gridneff moved on to work on the BBC drama series \"The House of Eliott\".\n\nThe demise of \"Star Cops\" after just nine episodes has been seen as indicative of the decline of British television science fiction in the 1980s and, after \"Doctor Who\" followed \"Star Cops\" into cancellation in 1989, there would be no British regular science fiction drama series on British television until \"Bugs\" began in 1995. However, \"Star Cops\" has undergone something of a reappraisal – in science fiction circles at least – since it went off the air in 1987. Reviewing the VHS releases for \"TV Zone\" in 1991, Gary Russell stated that \"\"Star Cops\" represents \"excellent\" science fiction\" and recanted his original impression of the series upon broadcast that it was \"\"Bergerac\" in spacesuits, complete with rather cruddy visual effects and boring performances\". A retrospective article penned by Keith Topping for \"Dreamwatch\" to mark the series' 10th anniversary in 1997 described \"Star Cops\" as \"a series that could (and should) have been one of the BBC's most popular, influential and entertaining products of the era. On at least one of these points the series failed miserably, but, certainly when it came to entertainment, it succeeded magnificently\". In 1999, when science fiction magazine \"SFX\" asked an expert panel from the SF field, including Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter, to compile a list of the top 50 SF shows of all time, \"Star Cops\" came thirteenth on the list, with \"SFX\" describing it as \"the SF TV show SF writers love. It wasn't perfect but it's as close as TV will ever get to producing proper written SF\". Later, in 2005, \"SFX\" went on to poll its readers for their list of the top 50 British telefantasy shows and \"Star Cops\" was voted into twenty-seventh position on the list. The BBC themselves revisited \"Star Cops\" in a thirty-minute retrospective documentary about the show, recorded as part of a series titled \"The Cult of...\", first broadcast on BBC Four on 28 November 2006 as part of that channel's \"Science Fiction Britannia\" season. Reflecting on the show in the programme, the author and critic Kim Newman said that \"the strength of \"Star Cops\" is the writing. I don't think any of the episodes are realised as well on screen as they are on the page. [...] If it had come back for another couple of seasons it might well have been the BBC's best science fiction show\". The documentary concluded that \"Star Cops\" was an \"overlooked gem\".\n\nOn 9 November 2017, Big Finish Productions announced they would be releasing a new series of Star Cops stories as audio plays, with surviving original cast members David Calder, Trevor Cooper and Linda Newton reprising their roles as Nathan Spring, Colin Devis and Pal Kenzy respectively. Joining them will be Rakhee Thakrar as Priya Basu and Philip Olivier as Paul Bailey.\n\nTwo box sets of four adventures were announced, and released in May and December 2018 under the banner title of \"Mother Earth\".\n\n<section begin=series /><section end=series />\n\n\"Star Cops\" comprised nine episodes and was first broadcast on Monday nights on BBC2 between 6 July 1987 and 31 August 1987. A tenth episode \"Death on the Moon\" was planned but abandoned following industrial action at the BBC.\n\nA very small amount of merchandising has been produced for \"Star Cops\". To coincide with the broadcast of the series in 1987, BBC Enterprises released Justin Hayward's theme song \"It Won't Be Easy\" as a 7-inch and 12-inch single. The 7-inch included the track \"Outer Space\" by Hayward and Tony Visconti, which was one of the incidental music tracks written for \"An Instinct for Murder\", on the B-side. The 12-inch had an extended version of \"It Won't Be Easy\" on the A-Side and the 7-inch version of \"It Won't Be Easy\" and \"Outer Space\" on the B-Side. \"It Won't Be Easy\" was later released on compact disc as part of the compilation \"The Best of BBC TV's Themes\".\n\nThe entire series was released by BBC Video in three volumes, each containing three episodes, on VHS video tape in 1991. Some purchasers of the VHS tapes also received embroidered ISPF and Moonbase patches made by Stewart Aviation, which were also available separately.\n\nChris Boucher's five \"Star Cops\" scripts have been semi-professionally published in two volumes by Judith Proctor. The first volume \"An Instinct for Murder\" was adapted from the first \"Star Cops\" episode of the same name. The second volume \"Little Green Men and Other Stories\" included the four remaining Boucher scripts. There are some changes from the broadcast episodes – neither the characters of Alexander Krivenko nor Anna Shoun appear in these books. Krivenko is replaced by a Chinese character, Jiang Li Ho, as an attempt to update the \"Star Cops\" universe to reflect the ending of the Cold War in 1989. Shoun is replaced by an Irish character, Dana Cogill – Boucher didn't own the rights to use the Shoun character who had been created by John Collee.\n\nThe complete series was released on DVD by Network Video in a single, three-disc volume in 2004. This release contained a number of extras including commentaries by Chris Boucher on \"An Instinct for Murder\" and \"Little Green Men and Other Martians\" and by Philip Martin on \"This Case to be Opened in a Million Years\" as well as a making of documentary, interviews with Chris Boucher, Philip Martin and Trevor Cooper and behind the scenes footage.\n\n"}
{"id": "21871166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21871166", "title": "Stilyagi", "text": "Stilyagi\n\nStilyagi (, \"stylish, style hunters\") were members of a youth counterculture from the late 1940s until the early 1960s in the Soviet Union. A stilyaga (), was primarily distinguished by snappy clothing—preferably foreign-label, acquired from \"fartsovshchiks\"—that contrasted with the communist realities of the time, and their fascination with \"zagranitsa\", modern Western music and fashions corresponding to that of the Beat Generation. English writings on Soviet culture variously translated the derogatory term as \"dandies\", \"fashionistas\", \"beatniks\", \"hipsters\", \"zoot suiters\", etc.\n\nToday, the stilyagi phenomenon is regarded as one of the Russian historical social trends which further developed during the late Soviet era (notably the Stagnation Period) and allowed \"informal\" views on life, such as hippies, punks and rappers.\n\nTheir apolitical views, neutral or negative attitudes toward Soviet morality, and their open admiration of modern, especially American, lifestyles were key characteristics that slowly developed during the 1950s.\n\nAt the dawn of the phenomenon, the stilyagi look was rather a caricature, inspired by movies from abroad of recent years. It resembled the zoot suit but combined different bright colors. By the late fifties, the look had evolved into something more elegant and stylish. Typical stilyagi wear included narrow pants, long jackets, narrow ties, bright-colored shirts, and thick soled shoes.\n\nUsually stilyagi enjoyed popular American music of the 1940s, especially swing and boogie-woogie, especially the music of Glenn Miller, Benny Goodman and the soundtrack from the film \"Sun Valley Serenade\". The \"serenade\" instantly became a cult among stilyagi, and one of its songs, the famous \"Chattanooga Choo Choo\", served as their unofficial anthem. Stilyagi developed their own styles of dance originating from boogie-woogie and later also adopted rock-n-roll.\n\nThe first stilyagi were from the generation of young adults in their early twenties who had lived through the hard times of economic crisis and World War II, leaving them perturbed about the future of their lives. Many of the young men returning from the army were heavily influenced by the contact with the foreign countries and modern trends at the time. As a result, many of them wore clothes based on images from abroad (early 1940s romance films, daily newspapers and photographs) and young women later adopted styles from modern female stereotypes too.\n\nThe main cause of this phenomenon was the struggle between capitalism and communism-led societies. The enforced uniformity of the Soviet thought and the heavy weight of its dictatorship were the only politically correct form of view, lifestyle and self-expression permitted during Stalinism. Therefore, the stilyagi sought to follow the modern ideology and morality in order to avoid Soviet pressure and its influence on society.\n\nThe stilyagi were largely repressed until Stalin's death in 1953, which let the style grow into a counterculture. By 1955, the stilyagi had acquired both respect and contempt from many layers of society (especially the then emerging Soviet upper-middle class, known as \"intelligentsia\") and were frowned upon in political instances, but had grown too many in number to be repressed. Thus, instead of trying to get rid of them, the media and politics, including journalism, eagerly mocked their style by portraying them as ridiculous as opposed to \"normal\" parts of Soviet society.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, many people were arrested for making musical recordings on \"bones\" (developed X-ray films). Those found guilty of manufacturing and distributing such recordings received from three to five years of imprisonment in labour camps for profiteering.\n\nIn the late 1950s, the catchphrase \"Today he dances jazz, but tomorrow [he] will sell [his] homeland\" (Сегодня он танцует джаз, а завтра Родину продаст), became the stilyagi's signature and the key idea underlying their social protest. Stilyagi were recognized as an official musical, artistic and pop culture movement that later took on further modern influences, notably rockabilly, rock-n-roll and pop rock musical genres.\n\nFollowing the international festival of 1957, however, the USSR became more open to modern culture. The official ban on jazz music was removed, and many records became available in stores from the 1960s. Admiration of modern music, especially the rock-n-roll wave of the sixties, met more tolerance from official ideology and little active resistance. All this contributed to the decline of the movement in the early sixties, as former stilyagi abandoned the lifestyles of their youth, while the next generation felt no need to follow such a lifestyle in order to enjoy modern culture or a nonpolitical way of life.\n\nThe influence of the stilyagi movement on Soviet-Russian culture is tremendous. Many of today's most respected Russian musicians, writers, film editors and other cultural personalities belonged to the movement, or shared its free, bohemian lifestyle. There is a 2008 Russian comedy musical film, \"Stilyagi\", about this subculture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29470561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29470561", "title": "The Devil and the Ten Commandments", "text": "The Devil and the Ten Commandments\n\nLe Diable et les Dix Commandements (), is a French comedy-drama film from 1963, directed by Julien Duvivier, written by David Alexander and Michel Audiard, starring Michel Simon and Louis de Funès (uncredited). The cast list includes several famous French actors: Simon, de Funès, Fernandel, Danielle Darrieux, Lino Ventura, Jean-Claude Brialy, Charles Aznavour and a very young Alain Delon.\n\nAccording to Bosley Crowther only one from seven episodes tickled him, in which play Louis de Funes and Jean-Claude Brialy.\n\nThe film offers a perspective on sin and salvation. A snake proclaims – voice of Claude Rich – that it is our old friend, the Devil.\n\nThe film consists of seven roughly 15 minute episodes, each showing what will happen if one or more of the Ten Commandments will be broken. The episodes are either mini-dramas. The version available in Germany and Japan has eight episodes.\n\nIn the first episode Jérome Chambard is warned that he will lose his job if he continues to swear.\n\nIn second episode Françoise Beaufort enamored of a stripper calls on her only to find her married to a janitor who doesn't know what kind of dancing his wife performs.\n\nIn the third episode Denis, a Jesuit novice, leaves the order to avenge his sister's suicide, which was provoked by Garigny, who seduced her into prostitution and drug addiction.\n\nIn the fourth episode Philip buys a necklace for Micheline though he is bored with her. Fernandel (horse-faced) declares that he is God.\n\nIn the fifth episode a young man find out that his real mother is not Madeleine, but actress Clarisse Ardant.\n\nIn the sixth episode Didier Marin, cashier of a bank, was fired by his boss.\n\nIn the seventh episode the Devil appears as a serpent for Jérome Chambard and the bishop are eating.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18193754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18193754", "title": "Thirty-five Confession Buddhas", "text": "Thirty-five Confession Buddhas\n\nThe Thirty-Five Confession Buddhas () are known from the \"Sutra of the Three Heaps\" (Sanskrit: \"Triskandhadharmasutra\"; Tib. \"phung po gsum pa'i mdo\"), popular in Tibetan Buddhism. This Mahāyāna sutra actually describes the practice of purification by confession and making prostrations to these Buddhas, and is part of the larger \"Stack of Jewels Sutra\" (Sanskrit: \"Ratnakutasutra\"; Tib. \"dkon mchog brtsegs pa'i mdo\").\n\nIn Tibet there were two distinct traditions of the Thirty-five Confession Buddhas which arose from the two main Indian schools of Mahāyāna Buddhism: one from the Madhyamaka school founded by Nāgārjuna, and the other from the Yogācāra school founded by Asaṅga and Vasubandhu. Both of these schools developed their own rituals for conferring the Bodhisattva vows, each incorporating a visualization of the Thirty-five Buddhas along with the recitation of the confession from the Triskhandhadharma Sutra.\n\nThe names of the 35 Buddhas of confession are:\n\nThe Thirty-Five Confession Buddhas are a common subject depicted in Himalayan Buddhist paintings and sculpture. There are at least three different iconographic systems for depicting the Thirty-Five Buddhas, based on the different descriptions found in ritual texts and commentaries by different authors including Nagarjuna, Sakya Paṇḍita, Jonang Tāranātha and Je Tsongkhapa.\n\nThe three main iconographic traditions are: 1. The system attributed to Nagarjuna where the 35 Buddhas are depicted with different objects in their hands, 2. The system of Sakya Paṇḍita where the 35 Buddhas are depicted with hand gestures only (no hand objects), and 3. The system based on Je Tsongkhapa's personal vision of the 35 Buddhas where only some of the Buddhas have objects in their hands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42117606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42117606", "title": "Unframe", "text": "Unframe\n\nUnFrame collective is an independent resource of documentary photography exclusively managed by an international group of photographers dedicated to shining the spotlight on social, political and everyday issues that surround us. The collective was founded in February 2013 with the aim of developing and working on both long term social and political issues with a deeper perspective in addition to responding to news events as they happen anywhere in the world.\n\nIn 2013, during the first year of its activity, events documented were:\n\n\nThe photographers have organized a collective archive of long term issues. Amongst others are the following:\n\n\nStarting from September 2013 UnFrame self manages the collectives' growing archives in order to best facilitate the syndication of its work in the most efficient way possible. To this effect it has also partnered with key resource media outlets allowing for the distribution of its photographs including the French photo agency Cosmos.\n\n"}
{"id": "40952436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40952436", "title": "Urban Christian fiction", "text": "Urban Christian fiction\n\nUrban Christian fiction is a subgenre of Christian fiction and urban fiction in which conflicting stories of emotion and vividness mixes God, the urban church, and faith. Violence and sex is not purposely excluded, but are included whenever necessary for the story line. God is the center of the characters' lives in Urban Christian fiction, and these stories usually portray African-American or Latino urban culture. Urban Christian fiction is classified as part of the African-American Christian Market (AACM), where the hot-selling topics are fiction, books for dating, dramatic testimony, and single parenting.\n"}
{"id": "52278751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52278751", "title": "Weddings in Mali", "text": "Weddings in Mali\n\nWeddings in Mali involve various important customs and celebrations spread out through a number of days. Usually, the groom and the bride do not personally know the attendees that come to the wedding festivity, because\nMalian families tend to be very big due to polygamy. Therefore, most of the time it is very hard for one to know every member of his or her extended family. Thus weddings are a perfect occasion for all the extended family members of the couple to come for the big day. Wedding ceremonies in Bamako are a time when the community comes together to support the bride and groom's family. During this time food is given, and family from the village come to say goodbye to the bride-to-be and celebrate with the family.\n\nBefore the actual wedding takes place there is a pre-wedding henna ceremony only for women. Where local henna designers apply henna for the bride, and the other women present at the ceremony.\n\n\n\n\nThe main wedding attire in Mali is called bazin, (sometimes referred to as boubou for men). This fabric is hand dyed polished cotton, which is popularly characterized by its shine. There are two types of bazin/boubou: rich and basic, which are formal and informal. The bazin/boubou rich is the most expensive fabric that is usually reserved for greater occasions which are typically worn formally. While the basic bazin/boubou is worn every day on a more informal basis. The bazin/boubou is worn to many different occasions such as during the two main Islamic celebrations Eid, in funerals, weddings, and on Friday prayers to the mosque. It is well known for its decorative fundamental embroidery that stands out for its elegant designs.\nThey generally come in many different designs, which is embroidered by a tailor using either a pedal driven or electric sewing machine.\n\nThe bazin/boubous are sewed differently for men and women. Whereas the men boubou consists of three different pieces of clothing that are the same color. A tie up trouser, a long sleeve chemise, and a wide open- embroidered sleeveless gown that is worn over everything. While for women even though their bazin is sewn in a three piece, it comes with a wrapper that is typically tied around the waist, a blouse, and a headscarf.\n\nThe bride is expected to wear the best quality of bazin rich designed just for her for the traditional and religious wedding, and for the civil wedding, she dresses in a white modern gown. While the groom dresses in white boubou for the traditional and religious wedding and wears a suit for the civil wedding.\nMalian women take a lot of pride in their jewelry especially when they are going to weddings. To go with their expensive embroidered bazin outfits they wear gold necklaces, bracelets, and earrings. This is because gold symbolizes wealth, money, and prestige between Malian women. Such that women see weddings as the perfect occasion to dress up and wear their most expensive gold jewelry to go and celebrate the union of the new couple. Where the Djeli's sing to them, in such a way that they are praising them for their beauty and respectful family name, in which the women and give money out to the Djeli's.\n"}
