{"id": "23238371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23238371", "title": "2009 Indian general election campaign controversies", "text": "2009 Indian general election campaign controversies\n\nThe 2009 Indian general election was held in five phases between April 16 and May 13, 2009. During the course of the campaign, several controversies arose, with parties being accused by one another and the Election Commission of India of violating the model code of conduct that was in force during the election.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34740", "title": "8th century", "text": "8th century\n\nThe 8th century is the period from 701 to 800 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era. The coast of North Africa and the Iberian Peninsula quickly come under Islamic Arab domination. The westward expansion of the Umayyad Empire was famously halted at the Siege of Constantinople by the Byzantine Empire and the Battle of Tours by the Franks. The tide of Arab conquest came to an end in the middle of the 8th century.\n\nIn Europe, late in the century, the Vikings, seafaring peoples from Scandinavia, begin raiding the coasts of Europe and the Mediterranean, and go on to found several important kingdoms.\n\nIn Asia, the Pala Empire is founded in Bengal. The Tang dynasty reaches its pinnacle under Chinese Emperor Xuanzong. The Nara period begins in Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3842333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3842333", "title": "Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1882", "text": "Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1882\n\nThe Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1882 was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (as it then was). It was introduced by John Lubbock, 1st Baron Avebury, recognising the need for a governmental administration on the protection of ancient monuments, and was finally passed after a number of failed attempts on heritage protection acts. The gradual change towards a state-based authority responsible for the safeguarding of the Kingdom's national heritage manifested itself through the appointment of the first Inspector of Ancient Monuments in 1882, General Pitt-Rivers.\n\nThe 1882 Act contains a schedule of the initial 68 sites that were covered by the legislation. This schedule exclusively focussed on pre-historic monuments, and covered some of the most famous such sites in the country, alongside some that were felt to be at particular risk at the time.\n\nThere were 26 English sites listed in the Schedule, in just 10 counties, including seven sites in Wiltshire. Welsh monuments were represented by one site in each of north, south and west Wales.\n\nThe 1882 Schedule included 21 monuments, the majority of which are prehistoric sites. Two are Neolithic, five Bronze Age, eight Iron Age and six from early Christian/Pictish periods, although two of the prehistoric stones also have notable early Christian additions. Those sites now in the care of Historic Scotland are indicated with '(HS)'.\n\nIn 1882 the whole of Ireland was under British administration. Subsequent legislation for Ireland used the terminology of 'Historic Monuments', which continues in Northern Ireland. Three sites in the Schedule are in what became Northern Ireland, one being in County Armagh and two in County Down. The fifteen sites now in the Republic of Ireland are protected by the National Monuments Service and include two world heritage sites. As with England and Wales, the 1882 selection was overwhelmingly those thought to be prehistoric sites, although there is now uncertainty over the age of many sites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10999081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10999081", "title": "Antonio Cornejo Polar", "text": "Antonio Cornejo Polar\n\nAntonio Cornejo-Polar (1936–1997) was a Peruvian-born academic, teacher, literature and cultural critic, known particularly for his theorization of the concept of \"heterogeneity.\"\n\nCornejo Polar was born December 23, 1936 in Arequipa, Peru. He received a PhD from the National University of San Agustin in Arequipa, became a professor there as well, then in 1966 he becomes Professor in National University of San Marcos, Lima. He was also a visiting professor at the University of Pittsburgh and UC Berkeley.\n\nHe authored 11 books, and was considered an authority on Latin-American literature and culture. He was also the founder and editor of the \"Revista de Critica Literaria Latinoamericana\", a journal which covered issues of culture and ideology in Latin-American literature.\n\nCornejo-Polar was married to Cristina Soto, who worked with him on the journal, and also managed \"Latinoamericana Editores\", a publishing company which covers Latin-American topics. They had four children Ursula, Alvaro, Gonzalo and Rafael and four grandsons Gonzalo, Juán Diego, Antonio and Natalia.\n\nHe died after a long illness on May 18, 1997, in Lima.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7500979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7500979", "title": "Argument from marginal cases", "text": "Argument from marginal cases\n\nThe argument from marginal cases (also known as the argument from species overlap) is a philosophical argument within animal rights theory regarding the moral status of non-human animals. Its proponents hold that if human infants, the senile, the comatose, and the cognitively disabled have direct moral status, animals must have a similar status, since there is no known morally relevant ability that those marginal-case humans have that animals lack. \"Moral status\" may refer to a right not to be killed or made to suffer, or to a general moral requirement to be treated in a certain way.\n\nA version of this argument has been put forward by Peter Singer.\n\nThe argument from marginal cases takes the form of a proof by contradiction. It attempts to show that you cannot coherently believe both that all humans have moral status, \"and\" that all non-humans lack moral status.\n\nConsider a cow. We ask why it is acceptable to kill this cow for food – we might claim, for example, that the cow has no concept of self and therefore it cannot be wrong to kill it. However, many young children may also lack this same concept of \"self\". So if we accept the self-concept criterion, then we must also accept that killing children is acceptable in addition to killing cows, which is considered a \"reductio ad absurdum\". So the concept of self cannot be our criterion.\n\nThe proponent will usually continue by saying that for any criterion or set of criteria (either capacities, e.g. language, consciousness, the ability to have moral responsibilities towards others; or relations, e.g. sympathy or power relations) there exists some \"marginal\" human who is mentally handicapped in some way that would also meet the criteria for having no moral status. Peter Singer phrases it this way: \n\nDaniel Dombrowski writes that the argument can be traced to Porphyry in the third century AD. James Rachels has argued that the theory of evolution implies that there is only a gradient between humans and other animals, and therefore marginal-case humans should be considered similar to non-human animals.\n\nA counter-argument is the argument from species normality (a term coined by David Graham), proposed by Tibor Machan. In considering the rights of children or the disabled, Machan uses the analogy of a broken chair:\n\n... classifications and ascriptions of capacities rely on the good sense of making certain generalizations. One way to show this is to recall that broken chairs, while they aren't any good to sit on, are still chairs, not monkeys or palm trees. Classifications are not something rigid but something reasonable. While there are some people who either for a little or longer while – say when they're asleep or in a coma – lack moral agency, in general people possess that capacity, whereas non-people don't. So it makes sense to understand them having rights so their capacity is respected and may be protected. This just doesn't work for other animals.\n\nDavid Graham interprets this to mean that if most of a species' members are moral agents then any member has the same rights and protections as the species. In brief, \"The moral status of an individual depends on what is normal for that individual's species.\"\n\nJames Rachels has responded to Machan that if one adopts the idea that individuals of a species must be treated according to what is normal for that species, then it would imply a chimp that somehow acquired the ability to read and write should not enter a university since it is not \"normal\" behavior for a chimpanzee.\n\nA related counterargument from Roderick Long is that a being can obtain moral agency by developing a rational capacity, and from there on has full moral agency even if this capacity is lost or diminished:\n\nThat is why a cow has no rights, though a human being reduced to the mental level of a cow does have them. There's something wrong with the human; there's nothing wrong with the cow. One might say that in the case of the cow-minded human, there's a blank spot where her moral agency is supposed to be, and someone else can step into that blank spot and act as an agent on her behalf. But in the cow there's no blank spot.\n\nDoctor Arthur L. Caplan, in an article on the ethics of organ donation by infants with anencephaly - born essentially without a brain - before physical death, raises some points that might be considered counters to the Argument from Marginal Cases. He writes that some people cannot emotionally handle treating the anencephalic child as not worthy of moral status. Caplan also mentions concerns about possible misdiagnosis risk - the risk that an infant would be incorrectly diagnosed with anencephaly, and also the slippery-slope concern - the concern that other individuals are then at risk for organ donation, such as those in vegetative states or with severe disabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29172924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29172924", "title": "BagIt", "text": "BagIt\n\nBagIt is a set of hierarchical file system conventions designed to support disk-based storage and network transfer of arbitrary digital content. A \"bag\" consists of a \"payload\" (the arbitrary content) and \"tags\", which are metadata files intended to document the storage and transfer of the bag. A required tag file contains a manifest listing every file in the payload together with its corresponding checksum. The name, \"BagIt\", is inspired by the \"enclose and deposit\" method, sometimes referred to as \"bag it and tag it\".\n\nBags are ideal for digital content normally kept as a collection of files. They are also well-suited to the export, for archival purposes, of content normally kept in database structures that receiving parties are unlikely to support. Relying on cross-platform (Windows and Unix) filesystem naming conventions, a bag's payload may include any number of directories and sub-directories (folders and sub-folders). A bag can specify payload content indirectly via a \"fetch.txt\" file that lists URLs for content that can be fetched over the network to complete the bag; simple parallelization (e.g. running 10 instances of Wget) can exploit this feature to transfer large bags very quickly. Benefits of bags include:\n\n\nBagIt is currently defined in RFC 8493 . It defines a simple file naming convention used by the digital curation community for packaging up arbitrary digital content, so that it can be reliably transported via both physical media (hard disk drive, CD-ROM, DVD) and network transfers (FTP, HTTP, rsync, etc.). BagIt is also used for managing the digital preservation of content over time. Discussion about the specification and its future directions takes place on the Digital Curation discussion list.\n\nThe BagIt specification is organized around the notion of a “bag”. A bag is a named file system directory that minimally contains:\n\n\nOn receipt of a bag a piece of software can examine the manifest file to make sure that the payload files are present, and that their checksums are correct. This allows for accidentally removed, or corrupted files to be identified. Below is an example of a minimal bag “myfirstbag” that encloses two files of payload. The contents of the tag files are included below their filenames.\n\nIn this example the payload happens to consist of a Portable Network Graphics image file and an Optical Character Recognition text file. In general the identification and definition of file formats is out of the scope of the BagIt specification; File attributes are likewise out of scope.\n\nThe specification allows for several optional tag files (in addition to the manifest). Their character encoding must be identified in “bagit.txt”, which itself must always be encoded in UTF-8. The specification defines the following optional tag files:\n\n\nUntil version 15, the draft also described how to serialize a bag in an archive file, such as ZIP or TAR. From version 15 on, the serialization is no longer part of the specifications, but not because of technical reasons but only because of the scope and focus of the specification.\n\nThe BagIt specification emerged from a collaboration between The Library of Congress and the California Digital Library while transferring digital content created as part of the National Digital Information Infrastructure and Preservation Program. The origins of the idea date back to work done at the University of Tsukuba on the \"enclose and deposit\" model, for mutually depositing archived resources to enable long-term digital preservation. The practice of using manifests and checksums is fairly common practice as evidenced by their use in ZIP (file format), the Deb (file format), as well as on public FTP sites.\n\nIn 2007 the California Digital Library needed to transfer several terabytes of content (largely Web archiving data) to the Library of Congress. The BagIt specification allowed the content to be packaged up in \"bags\" with package metadata, and a manifest that detailed file checksums, which were later verified on receipt of the bags. The specification was written up as an IETF draft by John Kunze in December 2008, where it has seen several revisions before being issued as an RFC. In 2009 the Library of Congress produced a video that describes the specification and the use cases around it. In 2018, version 1.0 was published as an RFC by the Internet Engineering Task Force.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4752", "title": "Brasília", "text": "Brasília\n\nBrasília (; ) is the federal capital of Brazil and seat of government of the Federal District. The city is located atop the Brazilian highlands in the country's center-western region. It was founded on April 21, 1960, to serve as the new national capital. Brasília is estimated to be Brazil's 3rd most populous city. Among major Latin American cities, Brasília has the highest GDP per capita at ().\n\nBrasília was planned and developed by Lúcio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer in 1956 to move the capital from Rio de Janeiro to a more central location. The landscape architect was Roberto Burle Marx. The city's design divides it into numbered blocks as well as sectors for specified activities, such as the Hotel Sector, the Banking Sector and the Embassy Sector. Brasília was chosen as a UNESCO World Heritage Site due to its modernist architecture and uniquely artistic urban planning. It has also been named \"City of Design\" by UNESCO in October 2017 and has been part of the Creative Cities Network since then.\n\nAll three branches of Brazil's federal government are centered in the city: executive, legislative, and judiciary. Brasília also hosts 124 foreign embassies. The city's international airport connects it to all other major Brazilian cities and many international destinations, and is the third busiest airport in Brazil. Brasília is the most populous Portuguese-speaking capital city. It was one of the main host cities of the 2014 FIFA World Cup and hosted some of the football matches during the 2016 Summer Olympic Games; it also hosted the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup.\n\nThe city has a unique status in Brazil, as it is an administrative division rather than a legal municipality like other cities in Brazil. Although Brasília is used as a synonym for the Federal District through synecdoche, the Federal District is composed of 31 administrative regions, only one of which is the area of the originally planned city, also called Plano Piloto. The rest of the Federal District is considered by IBGE to make up Brasília's metro area.\n\nFrom 1763 until 1960, Rio de Janeiro was Brazil's capital. At this time, resources tended to be centered in Brazil's southeast region near Rio de Janeiro and most of its population was concentrated near to the Atlantic Coast. Brasília's geographically central location fostered a more regionally neutral federal capital. An article of the country's first republican constitution dating back to 1891 stated the capital should be moved from Rio de Janeiro to a place close to the country's center.\n\nThe plan was conceived in 1827 by José Bonifácio, an advisor to Emperor Pedro I. He presented a plan to the General Assembly of Brazil for a new city called Brasília, with the idea of moving the capital westward from the heavily populated southeastern corridor. The bill was not enacted because Pedro I dissolved the Assembly.\n\nAccording to legend, Italian saint Don Bosco in 1883 had a dream in which he described a futuristic city that roughly fitted Brasília's location. In Brasília today, many references of Bosco, who founded the Salesian order, are found throughout the city and one church parish in the city bears his name.\n\nIn 1957 an international jury selected Lúcio Costa's plan to guide the construction of Brazil’s new capital, Brasília. Costa's plan was not as detailed as some of the plans presented by other architects and city planners. It did not include land use schedules, models, population charts or mechanical drawings, however, it was chosen by five out of six jurors because it had the features required to align the growth of a capital city Even though the initial plan was transformed over time, his plan oriented much of the construction and most of its features survived.\n\nBrasília's possession as the new capital and its representation of the conquest of an extensive region in Brazil inspired the symbolism of the plan; Costa, uses a cross-axial design indicating the possession and conquest of this new place with a cross often described by some as a dragonfly, an airplane or a bird. Costa's plan included two principal components, the Monumental Axis (east to west) and the Residential Axis (north to south).\n\nThe Monumental Axis designated for political and administrative activities is considered the body of the city with the style and simplicity of its buildings, its oversized scales, broad vistas and heights, producing the idea of Monumentality. This axis includes ministries, the national congress, and the television and radio tower.\n\nThe Residential Axis was intended to contain areas with intimate character and is considered the most important achievement of the plan; it was designed for housing and associated functions such as local commerce, schooling, recreations and churches, constituted of 96 limited to six stories buildings and 12 additional superblocks limited to three stories buildings; Costa's intention with superblocks was to have small self-contained and self-sufficient neighborhoods and uniform buildings with apartments of two or three different categories, where he envisioned the integration of upper and middle classes sharing the same residential area.\n\nThe urban design of the communal apartment blocks was based on Le Corbusier’s Ville Radieuse of 1935 and the superblocks on the North American Radburn layout from 1929. Visually, the blocks were intended to appear absorbed by the landscape because they were isolated by a belt of tall trees and lower vegetation. Costa attempted to introduce a Brazil that was more equitable, he also designed housing for the working classes that was separated from the upper and middle-class housing and was visually different, with the intention of avoiding slums (\"favelas\") in the urban periphery. The superquadra has been accused of being a space where individuals are oppressed and alienated to a form of spatial segregation.\n\nOne of the main objectives of the plan was to allow the free flow of automobile traffic, the plan included lanes of traffic in a north-south direction (seven for each direction) for the Monumental Axis and three arterials (the W3, the Eixo and the L2) for the residential Axis; the cul-de-sac access roads of the superblocks were planned to be the end of the main flow of traffic. This emphasis of the plan on automobiles caused the lengthening of distances between centers and it attended only the necessities of a small segment of the population who owned cars.\n\nAt the intersection of the Monumental and Residential Axis Costa planned the city center with the transportation center (Rodoviaria), the banking sector and the hotel sector, near to the city center, he proposed an amusement center with theatres, cinemas and restaurants. Costa's Plan is seen as a plan with a sectoral tendency, segregating all the banks, the office buildings, and the amusement center.\n\nOne of the main features of Costa's Plan was that he presented a new city with its future shape and patterns evident from the beginning. This means that the original plan included paving streets that were not immediately put into use; the advantage of this is that the original plan is hard to undo because he provided for an entire street network, but on the other hand, is difficult to adapt and mold to other circumstances in the future. In addition, there has been controversy with the monumental aspect of Lúcio Costa's Plan, because it appeared to some as city planning of the 19th century and not that of a modern urbanism of the 20th century in Brazil.\n\nAn interesting analysis can be made of Brasília within the context of Cold War politics and the association of Lúcio Costa’s plan to the symbolism of aviation. From an architectural perspective, the airplane-shaped plan was certainly an homage to Le Corbusier and his enchantment with the aircraft as an architectural masterpiece. However, it is important to also note that Brasilia was constructed soon after the end of World War II. Despite Brazil’s minor participation in the conflict, the airplane shape of the city was key in envisioning the country as part of the newly globalized world, together with the victorious Allies. Furthermore, Brasília is a unique example of modernism both as a guideline for architectural design but also as a principle for organizing society. Modernism in Brasília is explored in James Holston's book, \"The Modernist City\".\n\nJuscelino Kubitschek, President of Brazil from 1956 to 1961, ordered Brasília's construction, fulfilling the promise of the Constitution and his own political campaign promise. Building Brasília was part of Juscelino's \"fifty years of prosperity in five\" plan. Already in 1892, the astronomer Louis Cruls, in the service of the Brazilian government, had investigated the site for the future capital. Lúcio Costa won a contest and was the main urban planner in 1957, with 5550 people competing. Oscar Niemeyer, a close friend, was the chief architect of most public buildings and Roberto Burle Marx was the landscape designer. Brasília was built in 41 months, from 1956 to April 21, 1960, when it was officially inaugurated.\n\nThe city is located at the top of the Brazilian highlands in the country's center-western region. The Paranoá Lake is a large artificial lake that was built to increase the amount of water available and to maintain region's humidity. It has Brazil's second largest marina, and hosts wakeboarders and windsurfers. Diving can also be practiced and one of the main attractions is Vila Amaury, an old village submerged in the lake. This is where the first construction workers of Brasília used to live.\n\nBrasília has a tropical savanna climate (\"Aw\", according to the Köppen climate classification), with two distinct seasons: the rainy season, from October to April, and a dry season, from May to September. The average temperature is . September, at the end of the dry season, has the highest average maximum temperature, , has major and minor lower maximum average temperature, of and , respectively. Average temperatures from September through March are a consistent . With , December is the month with the highest rainfall of the year, while June is the lowest, with only .\n\nAccording to Brazilian National Institute of Meteorology (INMET), the record low temperature was on July 18, 1975, and the record high was on October 28, 2008. The highest accumulated rainfall in 24 hours was on November 15, 1963.\n\nAccording to the 2010 IBGE Census, there were 2,469,489 people residing in Brasília and its metropolitan area, of which 1,239,882 were Pardo (multiracial) (48.2%), 1,084,418 White (42.2%), 198,072 Black (7.7%), 41,522 Asian (1.6%), and 6,128 Amerindian (0.2%).\n\nIn 2010, Brasília was ranked the fourth most-populous city in Brazil after São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Salvador. In 2010, the city had 474,871 opposite-sex couples and 1,241 same-sex couples. The population of Brasília was 52.2% female and 47.8% male.\n\nIn the 1960 census there were almost 140,000 residents in the new Federal District. By 1970 this figure had grown to 537,000. By 2000 the population of the Federal District had surpassed 2 million. The city of Brasília proper was planned for only about 500,000 inhabitants, but its metropolitan area has grown past this figure.\n\nFrom the beginning, the growth of Brasília was greater than original estimates. According to the original plans, Brasília would be a city for government authorities and staff. However, during the construction period, Brazilians from all over the country migrated to Brasília, seeking public and private jobs.\n\nAt the close of the 20th century, Brasília held the distinction of being the largest city in the world which had not existed at the beginning of the century. Brasília has one of the highest population growth rates in Brazil, with annual growth of 2.82%, mostly due to internal migration.\n\nBrasília's inhabitants include a foreign population of mostly embassy workers as well as large numbers of Brazilian internal migrants. Today, the city has important communities of immigrants and refugees. The city's Human Development Index was 0.936 in 2000 (developed level), and the city's literacy rate was around 95.65%.\n\nChristianity, in general, is by far the most prevalent religion in Brazil with Roman Catholicism being the largest denomination.\n\n\"Source: IBGE 2010. \"\n\nThe seats of the three branches of the Brazilian state are located in Brasília. Until the 1980s, the Federal Government appointed the Governor of the Federal District, and their laws were issued by the Brazilian Federal Senate. With the Constitution of 1988, the Federal District gained the right to elect its Governor, and a Legislative Chamber was elected to exercise legislative power. The Federal District does not have a judiciary power. The Judicial Power which serves the Federal District also serves federal territories. Brazil does not have any territories, therefore, for now the courts only serve cases from the Federal District.\n\nBrasília is twinned with:\nOf these, Abuja, Canberra, and Washington were likewise cities planned specifically to be their respective countries' seats of government.\n\nAt the northwestern end of the Monumental Axis are federal district and municipal buildings, while at the southeastern end, near the middle shore of Lake Paranoá, stand the executive, legislative, and judiciary buildings around the Square of Three Powers, the conceptual heart of the city.\nThese and other major structures were designed by Brazilian architect Oscar Niemeyer in the style of modern Brazilian architecture. In the Square of Three Powers, he created as a focal point the dramatic Congressional Palace, which is composed of five parts: twin administrative towers flanked by a large, white concrete dome (the meeting place of the Senate) and by an equally massive concrete bowl (the Chamber of Deputies), which is joined to the dome by an underlying, flat-roofed building. The Congress also occupies various other surrounding buildings, some connected by tunnels. A series of low-lying annexes (largely hidden) flank both ends.\n\nThe National Congress building is located in the middle of the Eixo Monumental, the city's main avenue. In front lies a large lawn and reflecting pool. The building faces the Praça dos Três Poderes where the Palácio do Planalto and the Supreme Federal Court are located.\n\nAlso in the square are the glass-faced Planalto Palace housing the presidential offices, and the Palace of the Supreme Court. Farther east, on a triangle of land jutting into the lake, is the Palace of the Dawn (Palácio da Alvorada; the presidential residence). Between the federal and civic buildings on the Monumental Axis is the city's cathedral, considered by many to be Niemeyer's finest achievement (see photographs of the interior). The parabolically shaped structure is characterized by its 16 gracefully curving supports, which join in a circle 115 feet (35 meters) above the floor of the nave; stretched between the supports are translucent walls of tinted glass. The nave is entered via a subterranean passage rather than conventional doorways. Other notable buildings are Buriti Palace, Itamaraty Palace, the National Theater, and several foreign embassies that creatively embody features of their national architecture. The Brazilian landscape architect Roberto Burle Marx designed landmark modernist gardens for some of the principal buildings.\n\nBoth low-cost and luxury buildings were built by the government in the Brasília. The residential zones of the inner city are arranged into \"superquadras\" (\"superblocks\"): groups of apartment buildings inspired in French modernist and bauhaus design and constructed with a prescribed number and type of schools, retail stores, and open spaces. In a not planned spaced in the northern end of Lake Paranoá, separated from the inner city, is a peninsula with many variables homes and a similar city exists on the southern lakeshore. Originally the city planners envisioned extensive public areas along the shores of the artificial lake, but during early development private clubs, hotels, and upscale residences and restaurants gained footholds around the water. Set well apart from the city are satellite cities, including Gama, Ceilândia, Taguatinga, Núcleo Bandeirante, Sobradinho, and Planaltina. These cities, with the exception of Gama and Sobradinho were not planned.\n\nThe city has been both acclaimed and criticized for its use of modernist architecture on a grand scale and for its somewhat utopian city plan.\n\nAfter a visit to Brasília, the French writer Simone de Beauvoir complained that all of its \"superquadras\" exuded \"the same air of elegant monotony\", and other observers have equated the city's large open lawns, plazas, and fields to wastelands. As the city has matured, some of these have gained adornments, and many have been improved by landscaping, giving some observers a sense of \"humanized\" spaciousness. Although not fully accomplished, the \"Brasília utopia\" has produced a city of relatively high quality of life, in which the citizens live in forested areas with sporting and leisure structure (the \"superquadras\") flanked by small commercial areas, bookstores and cafés; the city is famous for its cuisine and efficiency of transit.\n\nEven these positive features have sparked controversy, expressed in the nickname \"ilha da fantasia\" (\"fantasy island\"), indicating the sharp contrast between the city and surrounding regions, marked by poverty and disorganization in the cities of the states of Goiás and Minas Gerais, around Brasília.\n\nCritics of Brasília's grand scale have characterized it as a modernist bauhaus platonic fantasy about the future:\n\nThe Cathedral of Brasília in the capital of the Federative Republic of Brazil, is an expression of the atheist architect Oscar Niemeyer. This concrete-framed hyperboloid structure, seems with its glass roof reaching up, open, to the heavens. On May 31, 1970, the Cathedral's structure was finished, and only the diameter of the circular area were visible. Niemeyer's project of Cathedral of Brasília is based in the hyperboloid of revolution which sections are asymmetric. The hyperboloid structure itself is a result of 16 identical assembled concrete columns. There is controversy as to what these columns, having hyperbolic section and weighing 90 t, represent, some say they are two hands moving upwards to heaven, others associate it to the chalice Jesus used in the last supper and some claim it represent his crown of thorns. The Cathedral was dedicated on May 31, 1970.\n\nThe major roles of construction and of services (government, communications, banking and finance, food production, entertainment, and legal services) in Brasília's economy reflect the city's status as a governmental rather than an industrial center. Industries connected with construction, food processing, and furnishings are important, as are those associated with publishing, printing, and computer software. GDP is divided in Public Administration 54.8%, Services 28.7%, Industry 10.2%, Commerce 6.1%, Agrobusiness 0.2%.\n\nBesides being the political center, Brasília is an important economic center. Brasília has the highest city gross domestic product (GDP) of 99.5 billion reais representing 3.76% of the total Brazilian GDP.\nThe main economic activity of the federal capital results from its administrative function. Its industrial planning is studied carefully by the Government of the Federal District. Being a city registered by UNESCO, the government in Brasília has opted to encourage the development of non-polluting industries such as software, film, video, and gemology among others, with emphasis on environmental preservation and maintaining ecological balance, preserving the city property.\n\nAccording to Mercer's city rankings of cost of living for expatriate employees, Brasília ranks 45th among the most expensive cities in the world in 2012, up from the 70th position in 2010, ranking behind São Paulo (12th) and Rio de Janeiro (13th).\n\n(91% of local GDP, according to the IBGE):\n\nIndustries in the city include construction (Paulo Octavio, Via Construções, and Irmãos Gravia among others); food processing (Perdigão, Sadia); furniture making; recycling (Novo Rio, Rexam, Latasa and others); pharmaceuticals (União Química); and graphic industries. The main agricultural products produced in the city are coffee, guavas, strawberries, oranges, lemons, papayas, soy beans, and mangoes. It has over 110,000 cows and it exports wood products worldwide.\n\nThe Federal District, where Brasília is located, has a GDP of R$133,4 billion (about US$64.1 billion), about the same as Belarus according to The Economist. Its share of the total Brazilian GDP is about 3.8%. The Federal District has the largest GDP per capita income of Brazil US$25,062, slightly higher than Belarus.\n\nThe city's planned design included specific areas for almost everything, including accommodation, Hotels Sectors North and South. New hotel facilities are being developed elsewhere, such as the hotels and tourism Sector North, located on the shores of Lake Paranoá. Brasília has a range of tourist accommodation from inns, pensions and hostels to larger international chain hotels. The city's restaurants cater to a wide range of foods from local and regional Brazilian dishes to international cuisine.\n\nAs a venue for political events, music performances and movie festivals, Brasília is a cosmopolitan city, with around 124 embassies, a wide range of restaurants and complete infrastructure ready to host any kind of event. Not surprisingly, the city stands out as an important business/tourism destination, which is an important part of the local economy, with dozens of hotels spread around the federal capital. Traditional parties take place throughout the year.\n\nIn June, large festivals known as \"festas juninas\" are held celebrating Catholic saints such as Saint Anthony of Padua, Saint John the Baptist, and Saint Peter. On September 7, the traditional Independence Day parade is held on the Ministries Esplanade. Throughout the year, local, national, and international events are held throughout the city. Christmas is widely celebrated, and New Year's Eve usually hosts major events celebrated in the city.\n\nThe city also hosts a varied assortment of art works from artists like Bruno Giorgi, Alfredo Ceschiatti, Athos Bulcão, Marianne Peretti, Alfredo Volpi, Di Cavalcanti, Dyllan Taxman, Victor Brecheret and Burle Marx, whose works have been integrated into the city's architecture, making it a unique landscape. The cuisine in the city is very diverse. Many of the best restaurants in the city can be found in the Asa Sul district.\n\nThe city is also the birthplace of Brazilian rock and place of origin of many bands like: Legião Urbana, Capital Inicial, Aborto Elétrico, Plebe Rude and Raimundos. Currently Brasília has the Rock Basement Festival which attempts to bring new bands to the national scene. The festival is held in the parking Brasilia National Stadium Mané Garrincha.\n\nSince 1965, the annual Brasília Festival of Brazilian Cinema is one of the most traditional cinema festivals in Brazil, being compared only to the Brazilian Cinema Festival of Gramado, in Rio Grande do Sul. The difference between both is that the festival in Brasília still preserves the tradition to only submit and reward Brazilian movies.\n\nThe International Dance Seminar in Brasília has brought top-notch dance to the Federal Capital since 1991. International teachers, shows with choreographers and guest groups and scholarships abroad are some of the hallmarks of the event. The Seminar is the central axis of the DANCE BRAZIL program and is promoted by the DF State Department of Culture in partnership with the Cultural Association Claudio Santoro. \n\nBrasília has also been the focus of modern-day literature. Published in 2008, \"The World In Grey: Dom Bosco's Prophecy\", by author Ryan J. Lucero, tells an apocalyptical story based on the famous prophecy from the late 19th century by the Italian saint Don Bosco. According to Don Bosco's prophecy: \"Between parallels 15 and 20, around a lake which shall be formed; A great civilization will thrive, and that will be the Promised Land\". Brasília lies between the parallels 15° S and 20° S, where an artificial lake (Paranoá Lake) was formed. Don Bosco is Brasília's patron saint.\n\n\"American Flagg!\", the First Comics comic book series created by Howard Chaykin, portrays Brasília as a cosmopolitan world capital of culture and exotic romance. In the series, it is a top vacation and party destination. The 2015 Rede Globo series \"Felizes para Sempre?\" was set in Brasília.\n\nAt the end of the \"Eixo Monumental\" (\"Monumental Axis\") lies the \"Esplanada dos Ministérios\" (\"Ministries Esplanade\"), an open area in downtown Brasília. The rectangular lawn is surrounded by two eight-lane avenues where many government buildings, monuments and memorials are located. On Sundays and holidays, the Eixo Monumental is closed to cars so that locals may use it as a place to walk, bike, and have picnics under the trees.\n\n\"Praça dos Três Poderes\" (Portuguese for \"Square of the Three Powers\") is a plaza in Brasília. The name is derived from the encounter of the three federal branches around the plaza: the Executive, represented by the Palácio do Planalto (presidential office); the Legislative, represented by the National Congress (Congresso Nacional); and the Judiciary branch, represented by the Supreme Federal Court (Supremo Tribunal Federal). It is a tourist attraction in Brasília, designed by Lúcio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer as a place where the three branches would meet harmoniously.\n\n\nThe Palácio da Alvorada is the official residence of the president of Brazil. The palace was designed, along with the rest of the city of Brasília, by Oscar Niemeyer and inaugurated in 1958. One of the first structures built in the republic's new capital city, the \"Alvorada\" lies on a peninsula at the margins of Lake Paranoá. The principles of simplicity and modernity, that in the past characterized the great works of architecture, motivated Niemeyer. The viewer has an impression of looking at a glass box, softly landed on the ground with the support of thin external columns. The building has an area of 7,000 m with three floors consisting of the basement, landing, and second floor. The auditorium, kitchen, laundry, medical center, and administration offices are at basement level. The rooms used by the presidency for official receptions are on the landing. The second floor has four suites, two apartments, and various private rooms which make up the residential part of the palace. The building also has a library, a heated Olympic-sized swimming pool, a music room, two dining rooms and various meeting rooms. A chapel and heliport are in adjacent buildings.\n\nThe Palácio do Planalto is the official workplace of the president of Brazil. It is located at the Praça dos Três Poderes in Brasília. As the seat of government, the term \"Planalto\" is often used as a metonym for the executive branch of government. The main working office of the President of the Republic is in the Palácio do Planalto. The President and his or her family do not live in it, rather in the official residence, the Palácio da Alvorada. Besides the President, senior advisors also have offices in the \"Planalto\", including the Vice-President of Brazil and the Chief of Staff. The other Ministries are along the Esplanada dos Ministérios. The architect of the Palácio do Planalto was Oscar Niemeyer, creator of most of the important buildings in Brasília. The idea was to project an image of simplicity and modernity using fine lines and waves to compose the columns and exterior structures. The Palace is four stories high, and has an area of 36,000 m. Four other adjacent buildings are also part of the complex.\n\nPortuguese is the official national language and the primary language taught in schools. English and Spanish are also part of the official curriculum. The city has six international schools: American School of Brasília, Brasília International School (BIS), Escola das Nações, Swiss International School (SIS), Lycée français François-Mitterrand (LfFM) and Maple Bear Canadian School. August 2016 will see the opening of a new international school – The British School of Brasilia. Brasília has two universities, three university centers, and many private colleges.\n\nThe main tertiary educational institutions are: Universidade de Brasília – University of Brasília (UnB) (public); Universidade Católica de Brasília – Catholic University of Brasília (UCB); Centro Universitário de Brasília (UniCEUB); Centro Universitário Euroamaricano (Unieuro); Centro Universitário do Distrito Federal (UDF); Universidade Paulista (UNIP); and Instituto de Educação Superior de Brasília (IESB).\n\nBrasília–Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek International Airport serves the metropolitan area with major domestic and international flights. It is the third busiest Brazilian airport based on passengers and aircraft movements. Because of its strategic location it is a civil aviation hub for the rest of the country.\n\nThis makes for a large number of takeoffs and landings and it is not unusual for flights to be delayed in the holding pattern before landing. Following the airport's master plan, Infraero built a second runway, which was finished in 2006. In 2007, the airport handled 11,119,872 passengers. The main building's third floor, with 12 thousand square meters, has a panoramic deck, a food court, shops, four movie theatres with total capacity of 500 people, and space for exhibitions. Brasília Airport has 136 vendor spaces. The airport is located about from the central area of Brasília, outside the metro system. The area outside the airport's main gate is lined with taxis as well as several bus line services that connect the airport to Brasília's central district. The parking lot accommodates 1,200 cars. The airport is serviced by domestic and regional airlines (TAM, GOL, Azul, WebJET, Trip and Avianca), in addition to a number of international carriers. In 2012, Brasília's International Airport was won by the InfrAmerica consortium, formed by the Brazilian engineering company ENGEVIX and the Argentine Corporacion America holding company, with a 50% stake each. During the 25-year concession, the airport may be expanded to up to 40 million passengers a year.\n\nIn 2014 the airport received 15 new boarding bridges, totaling 28 in all. This was the main requirement made by the federal government, which transferred the operation of the terminal to the Inframerica Group after an auction. The group invested R$750 million in the project. In the same year, the number of parking spaces doubled, reaching three thousand. The airport's entrance have a new rooftop cover and a new access road. Furthermore, a VIP room was created on Terminal 1's third floor. The investments resulted an increase the capacity of Brasília's airport from approximately 15 million passengers per year to 21 million by 2014. Brasília has direct flights to all states of Brazil and direct international flights to Atlanta, Buenos Aires, Lisbon, Miami, Panama City, and Paris.\n\nLike most Brazilian cities, Brasília has a good network of taxi companies. Taxis from the airport are available immediately outside the terminal, but at times there can be quite a queue of people. Although the airport is not far from the downtown area, taxi prices do seem to be higher than in other Brazilian cities. Booking in advance can be advantageous, particularly if time is limited, and local companies should be able to assist airport transfer or transport requirements.\n\nThe Juscelino Kubitschek bridge, also known as the 'President JK Bridge' or the 'JK Bridge', crosses Lake Paranoá in Brasília. It is named after Juscelino Kubitschek de Oliveira, former president of Brazil. It was designed by architect Alexandre Chan and structural engineer Mário Vila Verde. Chan won the Gustav Lindenthal Medal for this project at the 2003 International Bridge Conference in Pittsburgh due to \"...outstanding achievement demonstrating harmony with the environment, aesthetic merit and successful community participation\".\n\nIt consists of three tall asymmetrical steel arches that crisscross diagonally. With a length of 1,200 m (0.75 miles), it was completed in 2002 at a cost of US$56.8 million. The bridge has a pedestrian walkway and is accessible to bicyclists and skaters.\n\nThe Brasília Metro is Brasília's underground metro system. The system has 24 stations on two lines, the Orange and Green lines, along a total network of , covering some of the metropolitan area. Both lines begin at the Central Station and run parallel until the Águas Claras Station. The Brasília metro is not comprehensive so buses may provide better access to the center.\n\nThe metro leaves the Rodoviária (bus station) and goes south, avoiding most of the political and tourist areas. The main purpose of the metro is to serve cities, such as Samambaia, Taguatinga and Ceilândia, as well as Guará and Águas Claras. The satellite cities served are more populated in total than the Plano Piloto itself (the census of 2000 indicated that Ceilândia had 344,039 inhabitants, Taguatinga had 243,575, and the Plano Piloto had approximately 400,000 inhabitants), and most residents of the satellite cities depend on public transportation.\n\nA high-speed railway was planned between Brasília and Goiânia, the capital of the state of Goias, but it will probably be turned into a regional service linking the capital cities and cities in between, like Anápolis and Alexânia.\n\nThe main bus hub in Brasília is the Central Bus Station, located in the crossing of the Eixo Monumental and the Eixão, about from the Three Powers Plaza. The original plan was to have a bus station as near as possible to every corner of Brasília. Today, the bus station is the hub of urban buses only, some running within Brasília and others connecting Brasília to the satellite cities.\n\nIn the original city plan, the interstate buses should also stop at the Central Station. Because of the growth of Brasília (and corresponding growth in the bus fleet), today the interstate buses leave from the older interstate station (called Rodoferroviária), located at the western end of the Eixo Monumental. The Central Bus Station also contains a main metro station. A new bus station was opened in July 2010. It is on Saída Sul (South Exit) near Parkshopping Mall and with its metro station, and it's also an inter-state bus station, used only to leave the Federal District.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Brasília, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 96 min. 31% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 28 min, while 61% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is , while 50% travel for over in a single direction.\n\nThe main stadiums are the Brasília National Stadium Mané Garrincha (which was reinaugurated on May 18, 2013), the Serejão Stadium (home for Brasiliense) and the Bezerrão Stadium (home for Gama).\n\nBrasília was one of the host cities of the 2014 FIFA World Cup and 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup, for which Brazil is the host nation. Brasília hosted the opening of the Confederations Cup and hosted 7 World Cup games. Brasília also hosted the football tournaments during the 2016 Summer Olympics held in Rio de Janeiro.\nBrasília is known as a departing point for the practice of unpowered air sports, sports that may be practiced with hang gliding or paragliding wings. Practitioners of such sports reveal that, because of the city's dry weather, the city offers strong thermal winds and great \"cloud-streets\", which is also the name for a manoeuvre quite appreciated by practitioners. In 2003, Brasília hosted the 14th Hang Gliding World Championship, one of the categories of free flying. In August 2005, the city hosted the 2nd stage of the Brazilian Hang Gliding Championship.\n\nBrasília is the site of the Autódromo Internacional Nelson Piquet which hosted a non-championship round of the 1974 Formula One Grand Prix season. An IndyCar race was cancelled at the last minute in 2015.\n\nThe city is also home to Uniceub BRB, one of Brazil's best basketball clubs. Currently, NBB champion (2010, 2011 and 2012). The club hosts some of its games at the 16,000 all-seat Nilson Nelson Gymnasium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10867759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10867759", "title": "Caricature (comics)", "text": "Caricature (comics)\n\nCaricature is a book collection of nine comic short stories by Daniel Clowes. In contrast to earlier Clowes collections such as \"Lout Rampage!\" and \"Orgy Bound\", \"Caricature\" concentrates on the more naturalistic, character-focused side of Clowes's output displayed in \"Ghost World\". It includes some of his most admired short stories, including \"Immortal, Invisible\", \"Gynecology\" and the title story. All the material in the collection originally appeared in Clowes's comic book \"Eightball\" with the exception of \"Green Eyeliner\", which was published in \"Esquire\".\n\n\"Caricature\" was first published by Fantagraphics Books in 1998 in a deluxe hardcover edition. A less expensive paperback version was released in 2002. Both editions contain a mixture of full-color and black-and-white material.\n\n"}
{"id": "19160154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19160154", "title": "Clwyd-Powys Archaeological Trust", "text": "Clwyd-Powys Archaeological Trust\n\nThe Clwyd-Powys Archaeological Trust is an Archaeological Trust organisation established in the mid-1970s as part of the Welsh Archaeological Trusts.\n\nThe Trust maintains Historic Environment Records for their area to provide archaeological advice to central government, planning authorities and other public bodies.\n\nSee also:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1474901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1474901", "title": "Concurrent powers", "text": "Concurrent powers\n\nConcurrent powers are powers a federal system of government shared by both the federal government and each constituent political unit (such as a state or province). These powers may be exercised simultaneously within the same territory, in relation to the same body of citizens, and regarding the same subject-matter. Concurrent powers are contrasted with reserved powers (not possessed by the federal government) and with exclusive federal powers (possession by the states is forbidden or requires federal permission). \n\nFederal law is supreme, and therefore it may preempt to a state or provincial law in case of conflict. Concurrent powers can therefore be divided into two kinds: those not generally subject to federal preemption (like the power to tax private citizens); and, other concurrent powers. \n\nIn the United States, examples of the concurrent powers shared by both the federal and state governments include the power to tax, build roads, establish bankruptcy laws, and to create lower courts.\n"}
{"id": "46784890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46784890", "title": "Credible fear", "text": "Credible fear\n\nCredible fear is a concept in United States asylum law whereby a person who demonstrates that he or she has a credible fear of returning to his or her home country cannot be subject to deportation from the United States until the person's asylum case is processed.\n\nHistorically, the deportation of a person not lawfully present in the United States required the approval of an Immigration Judge, unless it was based on an apprehension at the border itself. In November 2002, in order to speed up the process of deportation, the United States Department of Homeland Security expanded the scope of expedited removal to include those apprehended within 100 miles of the United States border and within 14 days of entry. \n\nTo address concerns that this might result in the deportation of people who might be eligible for asylum, the credible fear screening was introduced. According to the Congressional Research Service, \"Consistent time series data on 'credible fear' claims\" was only collected beginning in fiscal year 2005.\n\nThe legal framework governing credible fear is described in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 8 (Aliens and Nationality), 208.30 (8 CFR 208.30). According to the summary on the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website: \"An individual will be found to have a credible fear of persecution if he or she establishes that there is a “significant possibility” that he or she could establish in a full hearing before an Immigration Judge that he or she has been persecuted or has a well-founded fear of persecution or harm on account of his or her race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion if returned to his or her country.\"\n\nThere are two kinds of credible fear recognized in United States law:\n\n\nWhen a person enters the United States without authorization, United States Customs and Border Protection are, at initial contact, supposed to ask the person whether he or she has a credible fear of returning to his or her home country. If the person responds affirmatively, then the person cannot be immediately deported, but instead the person is referred to an asylum officer for a credible fear interview and issued a Form M-444 Information About Credible Fear Interview . If the person responds negatively, the person may be subject to expedited removal.\n\nA person who has not yet come into contact with immigration enforcement (either because he or she is already present in the United States in lawful status, or because immigration enforcement hasn't yet found the person) may also apply for asylum of his or her own accord (this is sometimes called applying for asylum affirmatively). Such a person does not need to go through a credible fear interview. The credible fear interview is intended only for individuals who have been identified as candidates for deportation.\n\nAfter initial contact, the person claiming credible fear needs to be given at least 48 hours before a credible fear interview with an asylum officer, unless he or she voluntarily waives the 48-hour waiting period requirement. In practice, due to a huge backlog of cases, the person may need to wait several days before he or she gets an interview.\n\nThe credible fear interview is conducted by an asylum officer from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Asylum Division. The goal of a credible fear interview is not to make a final determination regarding whether the applicant should be granted asylum, but rather, to determine whether the applicant has a reasonable \"prima facie\" case that makes it plausible that he or she could be granted asylum. According to the USCIS website: \"An individual will be found to have a credible fear of persecution if he or she establishes that there is a “significant possibility” that he or she could establish in a full hearing before an Immigration Judge that he or she has been persecuted or has a well-founded fear of persecution or harm on account of his or her race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion if returned to his or her country.\"\n\nThe interview includes questions in the following domains:\n\n\nIn the credible fear interview, the burden of proof to demonstrate credible fear is on the applicant. There is no presumption in favor of credible fear.\n\nThe transcript of the credible fear interview is part of the applicant's asylum file and may be used by an Immigration Judge later when deciding whether to grant the applicant asylum.\n\nDue to manpower and resource constraints faced by the USCIS, over 60% of credible fear interviews are conducted telephonically.\n\nIf the officer issues an unfavorable determination of credible fear to the applicant, the applicant may continue to be detained and may be deported for violation of immigration law.\n\nIf the officer issues a favorable determination of credible fear, then the applicant goes through regular removal proceedings. Specifically, the officer issues a Notice To Appear (NTA) to the applicant, directing the applicant to appear for his or her removal case in an immigration court, during which the applicant needs to make the case for asylum in full detail to the immigration judge. The applicant is now handled by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). After ICE files the NTA with the court, a removal hearing is held before an immigration judge. The applicant may have to wait for several months for a hearing due to the huge backlog of cases.\n\nApplicants may wait for their hearing while detained or on parole. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement has the following guidelines regarding parole for people with a favorable determination of credible fear, who are waiting for asylum hearings:\n\n\nCBP has come under criticism for not asking people if they have a credible fear, and not referring people for a credible fear interview even when they had a good \"prima facie\" chance of passing one. A report by the Immigration Policy Center cited a number of attorneys as saying their clients were given misinformation by CBP about the credible fear process, with some even told that the US does not grant asylum to people from Mexico. Human Rights Watch has similarly claimed to find that CBP's initial contact does not follow procedural guidelines, and that it was failing to flag for a credible fear interview many individuals who were seeking asylum.\n\nCredible fear interviews have come under criticism on the following counts:\n\n\nImmigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), the agency responsible for detaining people, has been criticized for inconsistent and unnecessary detention of asylum applicants after a favorable credible fear determination has been found, and the continued detention of people while they wait for their hearings has been said to contribute to their post-traumatic stress disorder.\n\nUSCIS has also been criticized for long average wait times between the credible fear interview and the asylum case hearing. The average wait time, according to a 2014 report, was 578 days.\n\n"}
{"id": "8051796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8051796", "title": "Egyptology Scotland", "text": "Egyptology Scotland\n\nEgyptology Scotland was formed on December 12, 2000 with the objective of promoting Egyptology, the study and understanding of Ancient Egypt, in Scotland. The society holds an annual lecture series, mainly at the Kelvingrove Museum in Glasgow and the Augustine United Church in Edinburgh, and occasionally elsewhere.\n\nThe society's motto is a quote from the ancient Egyptian wisdom text 'The Instruction of Ptahhotep'. It translates as 'Speaking to the future is good - it will listen.'\n\nEgyptology Scotland's annual lecture programme aims to provide members with access to the latest developments in the field of Egyptology and events include group visits, members’ nights and hieroglyph workshops etc. Many notable Egyptologists have spoken to the society over the years.\n\nEgyptology Scotland is the first individual Egyptology society in Scotland although the society is not the first to explore the world of ancient Egypt in Scotland. In 1906, the British School of Archaeology of Egypt, based in University College London established the Egyptian Research Students’ Association. Branches were set up in several cities including in Glasgow and Edinburgh. ‘Lantern lectures’ and ‘demonstrations’ were given and the branches survived on an irregular basis into the 1920s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2376926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376926", "title": "Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture", "text": "Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Indo-European Culture (abbreviation: \"EIEC\") is an encyclopedia of Indo-European studies and the Proto-Indo-Europeans. The encyclopedia was edited by J. P. Mallory and Douglas Q. Adams and published in 1997 by Fitzroy Dearborn. Archaeological articles are written by Mallory, linguistic articles are written by Adams, and includes a distinguished \"Who's Who\" of 1990s Indo-Europeanists who made contributions as sub-editors. While not a polemic, the work in part responds to Colin Renfrew's Anatolian hypothesis of Indo-European origins.\n"}
{"id": "6515678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6515678", "title": "Essays in Radical Empiricism", "text": "Essays in Radical Empiricism\n\nEssays in Radical Empiricism (ERE) by William James is a collection edited and published posthumously by his colleague and biographer Ralph Barton Perry in 1912. It was assembled from ten out of a collection of twelve reprinted journal articles published from 1904–1905 which James had deposited in August, 1906, at the Harvard University Library and the Harvard Department of Philosophy for supplemental use by his students. Perry replaced two essays from the original list with two others, one of which didn't exist at the earlier time.\n\nBecause ERE is a collection of essays written over a period of time, and ultimately not selected or collated by their author, it is not a systematic exposition of his thought even though Perry suggests otherwise in his preface. This circumstance, in addition to the evolution of James own philosophic stance, has contributed to a wide variance in understanding, misunderstanding, and critical opinion of radical empiricism.\n\nThis is the original collection of articles deposited by James (as bound by Harvard about 1912), with dates of journal publication:\n\nIn mid-1907 James composed a list of 15 essays for an anticipated book titled \"Essays in Radical Empiricism\". Two of the essays in the 1906 collection are not present on this list. \"The Pragmatic Method\" had been adapted as chapter three for James' book \"Pragmatism\". \"Humanism and Truth Once More\" was combined with \"Humanism and Truth\" in the 1909 book \"The Meaning of Truth\" (MT).\n\nJames' plans for a book on radical empiricism based on this list never came to fruition. \"Pragmatism\" was published in June 1907 and was well received. In the spring of 1909 James began to assemble material for a follow-up book called \"The Meaning of Truth\". His 1907 list fell victim to the needs of the immediate book. The two strikeout lines were made by James on his actual list. The notes to the right of the titles have been added to clarify how the essays were later used.\n\n\nAfter James' death, Ralph Perry thought it appropriate to assemble a book on radical empiricism, and mined the earlier lists to come up with this one:\n\n\nHarvard added one more article, \"Controversy About Truth\", from James' 1907 list to its 1976 critical edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33126356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33126356", "title": "EuCML", "text": "EuCML\n\nEuCML: Journal of European Consumer and Market Law (German: \"Zeitschrift für Europäisches Unternehmens- und Verbraucherrecht\") is a new law journal. Founded in 2011, its first issue was released in January 2012. The journal focuses on European and international consumer law, which it examines from perspectives of businesses and consumers. Articles are peer-reviewed. It is published quarterly by the Association of European Consumer Law/\"Gesellschaft für Europäisches Verbraucherrecht\" (Geuvr) and Verlag Oesterreich, which acquired the Austrian law programme of Springer-Verlag in 2012. From 2014, the Journal is available online via the database of C.H. Beck in full text from the first issue.\nAn archive can be found on the journals's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "30757006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30757006", "title": "Geo-IK-2", "text": "Geo-IK-2\n\nThe Geo-IK-2 is a Russian series of new generation civilian geodesy satellites replacing the Soviet Union's Geo-IK and Sfera constellations. They are intended to be used to create high precision three-dimensional maps of the Earth's surface, and to monitor plate tectonics. The satellites are produced by ISS Reshetnev, and have a mass of around . They operate in a circular orbit at an altitude of around above the Earth's surface. \n\nNot to be confused with the Napryazhenie / 14F150 / Nivelir military geodesy satellites.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258101", "title": "Gina Barreca", "text": "Gina Barreca\n\nRegina Barreca (born 1957) is an American academic and humorist. She is a Board of Trustees Distinguished Professor of English literature and feminist theory at the University of Connecticut and winner of UConn's highest award for excellence in teaching. She is the author of ten books and editor of 11 others. Her weekly articles from \"The Hartford Courant\" are syndicated internationally by the Tribune Co. and her work has appeared in \"The New York Times\", \"The Independent of London\", \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"Cosmopolitan,\" and \"The Harvard Business Review\". She is a member of the New York Friar's Club and an honoree of the Connecticut Women's Hall of Fame. Her latest book, \"\"If You Lean In, Will Men Just Look Down Your Blouse?\" Questions and Thoughts for Loud, Smart Women in Turbulent Times\", was published by St. Martin's Press in the spring of 2016 and an ELLE Reader's Prize selection.\n\nBarreca grew up in Brooklyn and Long Island, New York, and is of Italian descent. She was the first woman to be named Alumni Scholar at Dartmouth College, where she earned her 1979 bachelor's degree. Her stories from this time can be found in her memoir, \"Babes in Boyland: A Personal History of Co-education in the Ivy League.\"\n\nShe was a Reynolds Fellow and earned her 1981 M.A. at New Hall, Cambridge University, and earned her 1987 Ph.D. (English Literature) from the Graduate School, City University of New York, dissertation: “Hate and Humor in Women’s Literature: Twentieth-Century British Writers.”.\n\nBarreca was a 1981-87 Graduate Assistant/Adjunct Lecturer, Queens College, 1987-91 Assistant Professor of English, University of Connecticut, 1991-97 Associate Professor of English, University of Connecticut, and 1997-present Professor of English, University of Connecticut. and has been an engagement fellow at the University of Connecticut. As of 2018, she has received the American Association of University Professors Excellence in Research and Creativity: Career Award.\n\nShe is currently a columnist for the \"Hartford Courant\", as well as a blogger for \"Psychology Today\".\n\nBarreca has also published articles in \"The New York Times\", \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\", the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"Harvard Business Review\", \"The Dartmouth Alumni Magazine\", \"The Orlando Sentinel\", \"Ms.\" magazine, \"The Common Review\", \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", and \"Cosmopolitan\" and elsewhere. Barreca's books have been translated into Chinese, German, Spanish, and Japanese.\n\nBarreca cowrote a series of humor columns in \"The Washington Post\" with Gene Weingarten about the differences between men and women. These became the basis of the book she wrote with Weingarten, \"I'm with Stupid: One Man. One Woman. 10,000 Years of Misunderstanding Between the Sexes Cleared Right Up.\" They worked for two years via email and on the phone without having met first.\n\nIn 2011, Barreca published a memoir called \"Babes in Boyland: A Personal History of Co-education in the Ivy League.\"\n\nHer most recent book, \"\"If You Lean In, Will Men Just Look Down Your Blouse?\" Questions and Thoughts for Loud, Smart Women in Turbulent Times\", was published by St. Martin's Press in the spring of 2016.\n\nA noted public speaker, Barreca lectures nationally and internationally about a variety of topics including humor, women's comedy, women's lives, everybody's stress, and gender issues in the workplace. She has served as an advisor to the Library of Congress for work on humor and the American character, and was deemed a \"feminist humor maven\" by \"Ms.\" magazine.\n\nShe has appeared on dozens of radio and television programs including \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", \"20/20\", \"48 Hours\", \"The Joy Behar Show\", \"Dr. Phil\", and \"The Today Show\".\n\nRecently, Barreca joined the Mark Twain House and Museum Board of Trustees.\n\nBarreca married her husband, Michael Meyer, in 1991. They live in Storrs, Connecticut.\n\n\n\n\nShe has received a number of honorary degrees. In 2000, she received an honorary degree from Shepard's College in West Virginia. She received an honorary degree from Manchester Community College in 2014, and honorary Doctorate of Human Letters, Charter Oak State College, Connecticut in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "28836307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28836307", "title": "Great Plains Population and Environment Data Series", "text": "Great Plains Population and Environment Data Series\n\nThe Great Plains Population and Environment Data Series is a study that was assembled by an interdisciplinary research team led by Myron Gutmann of the National Science Foundation and the University of Michigan between 1995 and 2004, as part of a research project funded by the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. The goal of the project was to amass information about approximately 500 counties in 12 states of the Great Plains of the United States, and then to analyze those data in order to understand the relationships between population and environment that existed between the years of about 1870 and 2000.\n\nThe project team includes historians, sociologists, anthropologists, and demographers at the University of Michigan, Colorado State University, and the University of Saskatchewan, with consultants at other universities.\n\nThe agricultural data distributed here are all data about counties. The data falls into four broad categories: about the counties, about agriculture, about demographic and social conditions, and about the environment. The information about counties (name, area, identification code, and whether the project classified the county as part of the Great Plains in a given year) is embedded in each of the other data files, so that there will be three series of data (agriculture, demographic and social conditions, and environment), containing individual data files for each year for which data are available. The United States Census of Agriculture has been conducted since 1850 on a regular schedule that was decennial until 1920, and more frequently thereafter (every five years from 1925 to 1950, then in 1954, 1959, 1964, 1978, and every five years since 1982). The agricultural data included in this collection consist of a single data file for each agricultural census year between 1870 and 1997 that includes selected material compiled as part of the United States Agricultural Census. The county-level agricultural data produced by the United States government as part of the census constitute a consistent series of measures of changing agriculture and land use.\n\nThe social and demographic data included in The Great Plains Population and Environment Data Series consist of a single data file for each decennial year between 1870 and 2000, covering 10 of the 12 Great Plains states. Information on a variety of social and demographic topics was gathered to historically characterize populations living in counties within the United States Great Plains, in terms of: (1) urban, rural, and total population, (2) vital statistics, (3) net migration, (4) age and sex, (5) nativity and ancestry, (6) education and literacy, (7) religion, (8) industry, and (9) housing and other characteristics. These data include selected material compiled as part of the United States population census. The United States Census of Population and Housing has been conducted since 1790 on a regular schedule that is decennial. The county-level social and demographic data produced by the United States government as a result constitute a consistent series of measures capturing changes in the United States population's size, composition, and other characteristics. A subset of the variables available from the short and long-form survey questionnaires of the United States Census of Population and Housing (as compiled for counties) was extracted from previously existing digital files. In addition to information from the decennial census of the population, county-level data were drawn from an assortment of existing digital files as well as sources that were manually digitized. Other data include compilations of county-level information gathered from various federal agencies and private organizations as well as the agriculture and economic censuses. Supplementing these compilations are manually digitized consumer market data, religious data, and vital statistics, including information about births, deaths, marriage, and divorce.\n\n"}
{"id": "137986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=137986", "title": "Harm reduction", "text": "Harm reduction\n\nHarm reduction, or harm minimization, is a range of public health policies designed to lessen the negative social and/or physical consequences associated with various human behaviors, both legal and illegal. Harm reduction policies are used to manage behaviors such as recreational drug use and sexual activity in numerous settings that range from services through to geographical regions. Critics of harm reduction typically believe that tolerating risky or illegal behaviour sends a message to the community that such behaviours are acceptable and that some of the actions proposed by proponents of harm reduction do not reduce harm over the long term.\n\nNeedle-exchange programmes reduce the likelihood of users of heroin and other drugs sharing the syringes and using them more than once. Syringe-sharing can lead to infections such as HIV or hepatitis C, which can spread from user to user through the reuse of syringes contaminated with infected blood. Needle and syringe programme (NSP) and Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST) outlets in some settings offer basic primary health care. Supervised injection sites are legally sanctioned, medically supervised facilities designed to address public nuisance associated with drug use and provide a hygienic and stress-free environment for drug consumers. The facilities provide sterile injection equipment, information about drugs and basic health care, treatment referrals, and access to medical staff.\n\nOpioid replacement therapy (ORT), or opioid substitution therapy (OST), is the medical procedure of replacing an illegal opioid, such as heroin, with a longer acting but less euphoric opioid; methadone or buprenorphine are typically used and the drug is taken under medical supervision. Another approach is Heroin assisted treatment, in which medical prescriptions for pharmaceutical heroin (diacetylmorphine) are provided to heroin-dependent people. Toronto's Seaton House became the first homeless shelter in Canada to operate a \"wet shelter\" on a \"managed alcohol\" principle in which clients are served a glass of wine once an hour unless staff determine that they are too inebriated to continue. Previously, homeless alcoholics opted to stay on the streets often seeking alcohol from unsafe sources such as mouthwash, rubbing alcohol or industrial products which, in turn, resulted in frequent use of emergency medical facilities.\n\nA high amount of media coverage exists informing users of the dangers of driving drunk. Most alcohol users are now aware of these dangers and safe ride techniques like 'designated drivers' and free taxicab programmes are reducing the number of drunk-driving accidents. Many schools now provide safer sex education to teen and pre-teen students, who may engage in sexual activity. Since some adolescents are going to have sex, a harm-reductionist approach supports a sexual education which emphasizes the use of protective devices like condoms and dental dams to protect against unwanted pregnancy and the transmission of STIs. Since 1999 some countries have legalized prostitution, such as Germany (2002) and New Zealand (2003).\n\nMany street-level harm-reduction strategies have succeeded in reducing HIV transmission in injecting drug users and sex-workers. HIV education, HIV testing, condom use, and safer-sex negotiation greatly decreases the risk to the disease.\n\nIn the case of recreational drug use, harm reduction is put forward as a useful perspective alongside the more conventional approaches of demand and supply reduction. Many advocates argue that prohibitionist laws criminalise people for suffering from a disease and cause harm; for example, by obliging drug addicts to obtain drugs of unknown purity from unreliable criminal sources at high prices, thereby increasing the risk of overdose and death. The website Erowid.org collects and publishes information and first-hand experience reports about all kinds of drugs to educate (potential) drug users.\n\nWhile the vast majority of harm reduction initiatives are educational campaigns or facilities that aim to reduce drug-related harm, a unique social enterprise was launched in Denmark in September 2013 to reduce the financial burden of illicit drug use for people with a drug dependence. Michael Lodberg Olsen, who was previously involved with the establishment of a drug consumption facility in Denmark, announced the founding of the \"Illegal\" magazine that will be sold by drug users in Copenhagen and the district of Vesterbro, who will be able to direct the profits from sales towards drug procurement. Olsen explained: \"No one has solved the problem of drug addiction, so is it not better that people find the money to buy their drugs this way than through crime and prostitution?\"\n\nThe use of some illicit drugs can involve hypodermic needles. In some areas (notably in many parts of the US), these are available solely by prescription. Where availability is limited, users of heroin and other drugs frequently share the syringes and use them more than once. As a result, infections such as HIV or hepatitis C can spread from user to user through the reuse of syringes contaminated with infected blood. The principles of harm reduction propose that syringes should be easily available or at least available through a needle and syringe programmes (NSP). Where syringes are provided in sufficient quantities, rates of HIV are much lower than in places where supply is restricted. In many countries users are supplied equipment free of charge, others require payment or an exchange of dirty needles for clean ones, hence the name.\n\nA 2010 review found insufficient evidence that NSP prevents transmission of the hepatitis C virus, tentative evidence that it prevents transmission of HIV and sufficient evidence that it reduces self-reported injecting risk behaviour. It has been shown in the many evaluations of needle-exchange programmes that in areas where clean syringes are more available, illegal drug use is no higher than in other areas. Needle exchange programmes have reduced HIV incidence by 33% in New Haven and 70% in New York City.\n\nThe Melbourne, Australia inner-city suburbs of Richmond and Abbotsford are locations in which the use and dealing of heroin has been concentrated for a protracted time period. Research organisation the Burnet Institute completed the 2013 'North Richmond Public Injecting Impact Study' in collaboration with the Yarra Drug and Health Forum, City of Yarra and North Richmond Community Health Centre and recommended 24-hour access to sterile injecting equipment due to the ongoing \"widespread, frequent and highly visible\" nature of illicit drug use in the areas. During the period between 2010 and 2012 a four-fold increase in the levels of inappropriately discarded injecting equipment was documented for the two suburbs. In the local government area the City of Yarra, of which Richmond and Abbotsford are parts of, 1550 syringes were collected each month from public syringe disposal bins in 2012. Furthermore, ambulance callouts for heroin overdoses were 1.5 times higher than for other Melbourne areas in the period between 2011 and 2012 (a total of 336 overdoses), and drug-related arrests in North Richmond were also three times higher than the state average. The Burnet Institute's researchers interviewed health workers, residents and local traders, in addition to observing the drug scene in the most frequented North Richmond public injecting locations.\n\nOn 28 May 2013, the Burnet Institute stated in the media that it recommends 24-hour access to sterile injecting equipment in the Melbourne suburb of Footscray after the area's drug culture continues to grow after more than ten years of intense law enforcement efforts. The Institute's research concluded that public injecting behaviour is frequent in the area and inappropriately discarding injecting paraphernalia has been found in carparks, parks, footpaths and drives. Furthermore, people who inject drugs have broken open syringe disposal bins to reuse discarded injecting equipment.\n\nThe British public body, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), introduced a new recommendation in early April 2014 due to an increase in the presentation of the number of young people who inject steroids at UK needle exchanges. NICE previously published needle exchange guidelines in 2009, in which needle and syringe services are not advised for people under the age of 18 years, but the organisation's director Professor Mike Kelly explained that a \"completely different group\" of people were presenting at programs. In the updated guidance, NICE recommended the provision of specialist services for \"rapidly increasing numbers of steroid users\", and that needles should be provided to people under the age of 18—a first for NICE—following reports of 15-year-old steroid injectors seeking to develop their muscles.\n\nNSP and Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST) outlets in some settings offer basic primary health care. These are known as 'targeted primary health care outlet'- as these outlets primarily target people who inject drugs and/or 'low-threshold health care outlet'- as these reduce common barriers clients often face when they try to access health care from the conventional health care outlets. For accessing sterile injecting equipment clients frequently visit NSP outlets, and for receiving pharmacotherapy (e.g. methadone, buprenorphine)they visit OST clinics; these frequent visits are used opportunistically to offer much needed health care. These targeted outlets have the potential to mitigate clients' perceived barriers to access to healthcare delivered in traditional settings. The provision of accessible, acceptable and opportunistic services which are responsive to the needs of this population is valuable, facilitating a reduced reliance on inappropriate and cost-ineffective emergency department care.\n\n\"Supervised injection sites\" (SIS), or \"Drug consumption rooms\" (DCR), are legally sanctioned, medically supervised facilities designed to address public nuisance associated with drug use and provide a hygienic and stress-free environment for drug consumers.\n\nThe facilities provide sterile injection equipment, information about drugs and basic health care, treatment referrals, and access to medical staff. Some offer counseling, hygienic and other services of use to itinerant and impoverished individuals. Most programmes prohibit the sale or purchase of illegal drugs. Many require identification cards. Some restrict access to local residents and apply other admission criteria, such as they have to be injection drug users, but generally in Europe they don't exclude addicts who consume by other means.\n\nThe Netherlands had the first staffed injection room, although they did not operate under explicit legal support until 1996. Instead, the first center where it was legal to inject drug was in Berne, Switzerland, opened 1986. In 1994, Germany opened its first site. Although, as in the Netherlands they operated in a \"gray area\", supported by the local authorities and with consent from the police until the Bundestag provided a legal exemption in 2000.\n\nIn Europe, Luxembourg, Spain and Norway have opened facilities after year 2000. As did the two existing facilities outside Europe, with Sydney's Medically Supervised Injecting Center (MSIC) established in May 2001 as a trial and Vancouver's Insite, opened in September 2003. In 2010, after a nine-year trial, the Sydney site was confirmed as a permanent public health facility. As of late 2009 there were a total of 92 professionally supervised injection facilities in 61 cities.\n\nThe European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction's latest systematic review from April 2010 did not find any evidence to support concerns that DCR might \"encourage drug use, delay treatment entry or aggravate problems of local drug markets.\" Jürgen Rehm and Benedikt Fischer explained that while evidence show that DCR are successful, that \"interpretation is limited by the weak designs applied in many evaluations, often represented by the lack of adequate control groups.\" Concluding that this \"leaves the door open for alternative interpretations of data produced and subsequent ideological debate.\"\n\nThe EMCDDA review noted that research into the effects of the facilities \"faces methodological challenges in taking account of the effects of broader local policy or ecological changes\", still they concluded \"that the facilities reach their target population and provide immediate improvements through better hygiene and safety conditions for injectors.\" Further that the facilitates \"does not increase levels of drug use or risky patterns of consumption, nor does it result in higher rates of local drug acquisition crime.\" While its usage is \"associated with self-reported reductions in injecting risk behaviour such as syringe sharing, and in public drug use\" and \"with increased uptake of detoxification and treatment services.\" However, \"a lack of studies, as well as methodological problems such as isolating the effect from other interventions or low coverage of the risk population, evidence regarding DCRs — while encouraging — is insufficient for drawing conclusions with regard to their effectiveness in reducing HIV or hepatitis C virus (HCV) incidence.\" Concluding with that \"there is suggestive evidence from modelling studies that they may contribute to reducing drug-related deaths at a city level where coverage is adequate, the review-level evidence of this effect is still insufficient.\"\n\nCritics of this intervention, such as drug prevention advocacy organisations, Drug Free Australia and Real Women of Canada point to the most rigorous evaluations, those of Sydney and Vancouver. Two of the centers, in Sydney, Australia and Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada cost $2.7 million and $3 million per annum to operate respectively, yet Canadian mathematical modeling, where there was caution about validity, indicated just one life saved from fatal overdose per annum for Vancouver, while the Drug Free Australia analysis demonstrates the Sydney facility statistically takes more than a year to save one life. The Expert Advisory Committee of the Canadian Government studied claims by journal studies for reduced HIV transmission by Insite but \"were not convinced that these assumptions were entirely valid.\" The Sydney facility showed no improvement in public injecting and discarded needles beyond improvements caused by a coinciding heroin drought, while the Vancouver facility had an observable impact. Drug dealing and loitering around the facilities were evident in the Sydney evaluation, but not evident for the Vancouver facility.\n\nIn the United States, efforts to open up Supervised Injection Sites (SIS, also called Safe Injection Sites) are now underway, although the legality of SIS is still questionable and very controversial. Currently, federal law does not explicitly define whether SIS are legal or not, which leaves the issue of legality open to interpretation. Although still a gray area, some clauses of the federal Controlled Substances Act (CSA) may threaten the very core of its existence. Section 856 of the CSA states that:“It shall be unlawful to… manage or control any place… and knowingly and intentionally… make available for use… the place for the purpose of unlawfully manufacturing, storing, distributing, or using a controlled substance”.Currently, there are no official, state-sanctioned Supervised Injection Sites operating in the United States, but many cities are working on gaining approval. In January 2017, a bill was introduced in favor of legalizing Safe Injection Sites in California. In the bill, Assemblywoman Susan Eggman sought for the authorization of these facilities, otherwise known as \"drug consumption programs\", in various cities/ counties across California, including Los Angeles and San Francisco. Although the bill passed through the Assembly and various committees, it failed by 2 votes on the Senate Floor. In Washington, similar efforts were made to open up these facilities in Seattle and King County, but were also met with strong opposition. In January 2017, Senator Mark Miloscia proposed a bill to essentially ban Supervised Injection Sites in Washington. Despite political resistance through failed legislation, there still persists a strong movement across major U.S. cities to legalize these sites.\n\nExisting laws and their vagueness hinder efforts toward legalizing SIS in the United States. For instance, the CSA deems drug possession and management of areas utilized for drug consumption illegal. With the legality of SIS in question, facilities offering similar and/or underground services operate in the United States. In Boston, the Supportive Place for Observation and Treatment (SPOT) program does not allow drug use on site, but practices harm reduction strategies. SPOT provides a space for intoxicated individuals to seek medical care, education, and support. In September 2014, a social service agency developed an underground SIS to evaluate the impact and feasibility of implementing SIS in the United States. With a drug injection room and an adjacent room for post-injection monitoring, this underground SIS closely follows the models of SIS in European countries. Though there are no legally sanctioned SIS in the United States, underground SIS and harm reduction programs currently provide services to prevent health consequences associated with injection drug use.\n\nWhile legislative efforts have been made to legalize and implement SIS for harm reduction, it remains a controversial issue and has been met with protests and petitions from the opposition. In Washington, critics pushed for the passage of Initiative-27 which would ban the public funding of SIS in King County, but was subsequently ruled in the King County Superior Court as an infringement on the authority of the King County Board of Health. Opponents of the facilities argued that implementation of SIS would contradict the goal of preventing substance abuse. Other opposition groups in California took issue with the liability involved if an overdose were to occur, unsure if the patient or the healthcare staff would be responsible. In both San Francisco and Seattle, residents were most concerned about the location of SIS, afraid that the facility would increase crime rates in the surrounding area. Due to these and other opposing viewpoints, legislative efforts to implement SIS in the United States have been a slow progression.\n\nIn response to a movement in the United States supporting the opening of SIS, states such as New Mexico and cities including Seattle, San Francisco, Ithaca, New York City, and Philadelphia have convened task forces to study the feasibility and impact of these sites and to make recommendations. Many of these efforts have been part of larger harm reduction programs focused on reducing prescription opiate and heroin abuse. As part of their evaluation, San Francisco considered the healthcare impact on its citizens, such as lives saved, hospital stays, and cases of HIV and hepatitis C. They concluded that SIS would potentially decrease these factors annually. The city also conducted surveys and focus groups to gather opinion from residents and business owners on these facilities. Over half of survey respondents and focus group participants supported SIS. Benefits such as reductions in drug usage, drug overdoses, and spread of disease were identified, in addition to concerns including non-usage of SIS and increased crime in the neighborhood. A cost-benefit analysis of a supervised injection site there has been completed and suggests that one SIS could result in savings of $3.5 million U.S. dollars annually, primarily due to lower medical costs. Elsewhere, harm reduction coalitions, academic public health researchers, nonprofit organizations, and professional medical societies have made contributions to understanding the roles of these facilities in harm reduction. In Baltimore researchers at Johns Hopkins University published a report commissioned by the Abell Foundation with their recommendations for opening two facilities in the city. In Boston the Massachusetts Medical Society adopted a resolution supporting a pilot program led by the state to examine the impact of these sites on lives saved.\n\nOpioid replacement therapy (ORT), or opioid substitution therapy (OST), is the medical procedure of replacing an illegal opioid, such as heroin, with a longer acting but less euphoric opioid; methadone or buprenorphine are typically used and the drug is taken under medical supervision. Some formulations of buprenorphine incorporate the opiate antagonist naloxone during the production of the pill form to prevent people from crushing the tablets and injecting them, instead of using the sublingual (under the tongue) route of administration.\n\nIn some countries, such as Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia, patients may be treated with slow-release morphine when methadone is deemed inappropriate due to the individual's circumstances. In Germany, dihydrocodeine has been used off-label in ORT for many years, however it is no longer frequently prescribed for this purpose. Extended-release dihydrocodeine is again in current use in Austria for this reason. Research into the usefulness of piritramide, extended-release hydromorphone (including polymer implants lasting up to 90 days), dihydroetorphine and other drugs for ORT is at various stages in a number of countries.\n\nThe driving principle behind ORT is the program's capacity to facilitate a resumption of stability in the user's life, while they experience reduced symptoms of withdrawal symptoms and less intense drug cravings; however, a strong euphoric effect is not experienced as a result of the treatment drug. In some countries (not the USA, UK, Canada, or Australia), regulations enforce a limited time period for people on ORT programs that conclude when a stable economic and psychosocial situation is achieved. (Patients suffering from HIV/AIDS or Hepatitis C are usually excluded from this requirement.) In practice, 40-65% of patients maintain complete abstinence from opioids while receiving opioid replacement therapy, and 70-95% are able to reduce their use significantly, while experiencing a concurrent elimination or reduction in medical (improper diluents, non-sterile injecting equipment), psychosocial (mental health, relationships), and legal (arrest and imprisonment) issues that can arise from the use of illicit opioids.\n\nProviding medical prescriptions for pharmaceutical heroin (diacetylmorphine) to heroin-dependent people has been employed in some countries to address problems associated with the illicit use of the drug, as potential benefits exist for the individual and broader society. Evidence has indicated that this form of treatment can greatly improve the health and social circumstances of participants, while also reducing costs incurred by criminalisation, incarceration and health interventions.\n\nIn Switzerland, heroin assisted treatment is an established programme of the national health system. Several dozen centres exist throughout the country and heroin-dependent people can administer heroin in a controlled environment at these locations. The Swiss heroin maintenance programme is generally regarded as a successful and valuable component of the country's overall approach to minimising the harms caused by illicit drug use. In a 2008 national referendum, a majority of 68 per cent voted in favour of continuing the Swiss programme.\n\nThe Netherlands has studied medically supervised heroin maintenance. A German study of long-term heroin addicts demonstrated that diamorphine was significantly more effective than methadone in keeping patients in treatment and in improving their health and social situation. Many participants were able to find employment, some even started a family after years of homelessness and delinquency. Since then, treatment had continued in the cities that participated in the pilot study, until heroin maintenance was permanently included into the national health system in May 2009.\n\nA heroin maintenance programme has existed in the United Kingdom (UK) since the 1920s, as drug addiction was seen as an individual health problem. Addiction to opiates was rare in the 1920s and was mostly limited to either middle-class people who had easy access due to their profession, or people who had become addicted as a side effect of medical treatment. In the 1950s and 1960s a small number of doctors contributed to an alarming increase in the number of drug-addicted people in the U.K. through excessive prescribing—the U.K. switched to more restrictive drug legislation as a result. However, the British government is again moving towards a consideration of heroin prescription as a legitimate component of the National Health Service (NHS). Evidence has clearly shown that methadone maintenance is not appropriate for all opioid-dependent people and that heroin is a viable maintenance drug that has shown equal or better rates of success.\n\nA committee appointed by the Norwegian government completed an evaluation of research reports on heroin maintenance treatment that were available internationally. In 2011 the committee concluded that the presence of numerous uncertainties and knowledge gaps regarding the effects of heroin treatment meant that it could not recommend the introduction of heroin maintenance treatment in Norway.\n\nThe first, and only, North American heroin maintenance project is being run in Vancouver, B.C. and Montreal, Quebec. Currently, over 80 long-term heroin addicts who have not been helped by available treatment options are taking part in the North American Opiate Medication Initiative (NAOMI) trials. However, critics have alleged that the control group gets unsustainably low doses of methadone, making them prone to fail and thus rigging the results in favor of heroin maintenance.\n\nCritics of heroin maintenance programmes object to the high costs of providing heroin to users. The British heroin study cost the British government £15,000 per participant per year, roughly equivalent to average heroin user's expense of £15,600 per year. Drug Free Australia contrast these ongoing maintenance costs with Sweden's investment in, and commitment to, a drug-free society where a policy of compulsory rehabilitation of drug addicts is integral, which has yielded the one of the lowest reported illicit drug use levels in the developed world, a model in which successfully rehabilitated users present no further maintenance costs to their community, as well as reduced ongoing health care costs.\n\nA substantial part of the money for buying heroin is obtained through criminal activities, such as robbery or drug dealing. King's Health Partners notes that the cost of providing free heroin for a year is about one-third of the cost of placing the user in prison for a year.\n\nNaloxone is a drug used to counter an overdose from the effect of opioids; for example, a heroin or morphine overdose. Simply put, naloxone displaces the opioid molecules from the brain's receptors and reverses the respiratory depression caused by an overdose within two to eight minutes. The World Health Organization (WHO) includes naloxone on their \"List of Essential Medicines\", and recommends its availability and utilization for the reversal of opioid overdoses.\n\nFormal programs in which the opioid inverse agonist drug naloxone is distributed have been trialled and implemented. Established programs distribute naloxone, as per WHO's minimum standards, to drug users and their peers, family members, police, prisons, and others. These treatment programs and harm reduction centres operate in Afghanistan, Australia, Canada, China, Germany, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Norway, Russia, Spain, Tajikistan, the United Kingdom (UK), the United States (US), Vietnam, India, Thailand, Kyrgyzstan, Denmark and Estonia.\n\nOfficers in Quincy, Massachusetts, US began carrying the nasal spray form of the drug in October 2010, following the completion of a Department of Public Health pilot program, in which naloxone was distributed to friends and families of opiate users, in 2007. Quincy officers have administered the drug 221 times and reversed 211 overdoses since the commencement of the initiative. Espanola Valley, New Mexico and Ocean County, New Jersey police officers then followed the Quincy example in 2013. Quincy mayor Thomas Koch explained in early 2014: \"It's easy for the cynical person to say, 'Oh, they're druggies, they're junkies, let them die. But when you put a name and a face and a family to that, then it's a different story. Some people who go down this road will never come back, but if we can bring them back, there's always hope.\"\n\nFollowing the use of the nasal spray device by police officers on Staten Island in New York, an additional 20,000 police officers will begin carrying naloxone in mid-2014. The state's Office of the Attorney General will provide US$1.2 million to supply nearly 20,000 kits and Police Commissioner William Bratton said: \"Naloxone gives individuals a second chance to get help\".\n\nSome Harm Reduction Programs distribute Naloxone kits to people who use opioids and their friends and families to prevent overdose deaths. The distribution of Naloxone and public education by harm reduction programs has been shown to increase the survival rate for opioid users that experience an overdose.\n\nIn March 2013, trial programs commenced in the Australian states of New South Wales (NSW) and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT). Following the publication of its position statement on the peer-based distribution and administration of naloxone in August 2013, Harm Reduction Victoria, based in the Australian state of Victoria, commenced training workshops with drug users on the administration of naloxone in the event of an opiate overdose. During the week beginning March 3, 2014, 19 workshops had been completed by HRV and 156 drug users had been provided with naloxone, paid for by community health agencies.\n\nSpecific harms associated with cannabis include increased accident-rate while driving under intoxication, dependence, psychosis, detrimental psychosocial outcomes for adolescent users and respiratory disease. Some safer cannabis usage campaigns including the UKCIA (United Kingdom Cannabis Internet Activists) encourage methods of consumption shown to cause less physical damage to a users body, including oral (eating) consumption, vaporization, the usage of bongs which cool and to some extent filters the smoke, and smoking the cannabis without mixing it with tobacco.\n\nThe fact that cannabis possession carries prison sentences in most developed countries is also pointed out as a problem by European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA), as the consequences of a conviction for otherwise law-abiding users arguably is more harmful than any harm from the drug itself. For example, by adversely affecting employment opportunities, impacting civil rights, and straining personal relationships. Some people like Ethan Nadelmann of the Drug Policy Alliance have suggested that organized marijuana legalization would encourage safe use and reveal the factual adverse effects from exposure to this herb's individual chemicals.\n\nThe way the laws concerning cannabis are enforced is also very selective, even discriminatory. Statistics show that the socially disadvantaged, immigrants and ethnic minorities have significantly higher arrest rates. Drug decriminalisation, such as allowing the possession of small amounts of cannabis and possibly its cultivation for personal use, would alleviate these harms. Where decriminalisation has been implemented, such as in several states in Australia and United States, as well as in Portugal and the Netherlands no, or only very small adverse effects have been shown on population cannabis usage rate. The lack of evidence of increased use indicates that such a policy shift does not have adverse effects on cannabis-related harm while, at the same time, decreasing enforcement costs.\n\nIn the last few years certain strains of the cannabis plant with higher concentrations of THC and drug tourism have challenged the former policy in the Netherlands and led to a more restrictive approach; for example, a ban on selling cannabis to tourists in coffeeshops suggested to start late 2011. Sale and possession of cannabis is still illegal in Portugal and possession of cannabis is a federal crime in the United States.\n\nTraditionally, homeless shelters ban alcohol. In 1997, as the result of an inquest into the deaths of two homeless alcoholics two years earlier, Toronto's Seaton House became the first homeless shelter in Canada to operate a \"wet shelter\" on a \"managed alcohol\" principle in which clients are served a glass of wine once an hour unless staff determine that they are too inebriated to continue. Previously, homeless alcoholics opted to stay on the streets often seeking alcohol from unsafe sources such as mouthwash, rubbing alcohol or industrial products which, in turn, resulted in frequent use of emergency medical facilities. The programme has been duplicated in other Canadian cities, and a study of Ottawa's \"wet shelter\" found that emergency room visit and police encounters by clients were cut by half. The study, published in the \"Canadian Medical Association Journal\" in 2006, found that serving chronic street alcoholics controlled doses of alcohol also reduced their overall alcohol consumption. Researchers found that programme participants cut their alcohol use from an average of 46 drinks a day when they entered the programme to an average of 8 drinks and that their visits to emergency rooms dropped from 13.5 to an average of 8 per month, while encounters with the police fall from 18.1 to an average of 8.8.\n\nDowntown Emergency Service Center (DESC), in Seattle, Washington, operates several Housing First programmes which utilize the harm reduction model. University of Washington researchers, partnering with DESC, found that providing housing and support services for homeless alcoholics costs taxpayers less than leaving them on the street, where taxpayer money goes towards police and emergency health care. Results of the study funded by the Substance Abuse Policy Research Program (SAPRP) of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation appeared in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" in April 2009. This first controlled assessment in the U.S. of the effectiveness of Housing First, specifically targeting chronically-homeless alcoholics, showed that the programme saved taxpayers more than $4 million over the first year of operation. During the first six months, the study reported an average cost-savings of 53 percent (even after considering the cost of administering the housing's 95 residents) — nearly $2,500 per month per person in health and social services, compared to the per month costs of a wait-list control group of 39 homeless people. Further, despite the fact residents are not required to be abstinent or in treatment for alcohol use, stable housing also results in reduced drinking among homeless alcoholics.\n\nA high amount of media coverage exists informing users of the dangers of driving drunk. Most alcohol users are now aware of these dangers and safe ride techniques like 'designated drivers' and free taxicab programmes are reducing the number of drunk-driving accidents. Many cities have free-ride-home programmes during holidays involving high alcohol abuse, and some bars and clubs will provide a visibly drunk patron with a free cab ride.\n\nIn New South Wales groups of licensees have formed local liquor accords and collectively developed, implemented and promoted a range of harm minimisation programmes including the aforementioned 'designated driver' and 'late night patron transport' schemes. Many of the transport schemes are free of charge to patrons, to encourage them to avoid drink-driving and at the same time reduce the impact of noisy patrons loitering around late night venues.\n\nModeration Management is a programme which helps drinkers to cut back on their consumption of alcohol by encouraging safe drinking behaviour.\n\nThe HAMS Harm Reduction Network is a programme which encourages any positive change with regard to the use of alcohol or other mood altering substances. HAMS encourages goals of safer drinking, reduced drinking, moderate drinking, or abstinence. The choice of the goal is up to the individual.\n\nHarm reduction in alcohol dependency could be instituted by use of naltrexone.\n\nTobacco harm reduction describes actions taken to lower the health risks associated with using tobacco, especially combustible forms, without abstaining completely from tobacco and nicotine. Some of these measures include switching to safer (lower tar) cigarettes, switching to snus or dipping tobacco, or using a non-tobacco nicotine delivery systems. In recent years, the growing use of electronic cigarettes for smoking cessation, whose long-term safety remains uncertain, has sparked an ongoing controversy among medical and public health between those who seek to restrict and discourage all use until more is known and those who see them as a useful approach for harm reduction, whose risks are most unlikely to equal those of smoking tobacco. \"Their usefulness in tobacco harm reduction as a substitute for tobacco products is unclear, but in an effort to decrease tobacco related death and disease, they have a potential to be part of the strategy.\n\nIt is widely acknowledged that discontinuation of all tobacco products confers the greatest lowering of risk. However, there is a considerable population of inveterate smokers who are unable or unwilling to achieve abstinence. Harm reduction may be of substantial benefit to these individuals.\n\nThe Zendo Project conducted by the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies uses principles from psychedelic therapy to provide safe places and emotional support for people having difficult experiences on psychedelic drugs at select festivals such as Burning Man, Boom Festival, and Lightning in a Bottle without medical or law enforcement intervention.\n\nDrugs such as MDMA (commonly sold by the slang names \"ecstasy\" and \"molly\") are often adulterated. One harm reduction approach is drug checking, where people intending to use drugs can have their substances tested for content and purity so that they can then make more informed decisions about safer consumption. European organisations have offered drug checking services since 1992 and these services now operate in over twenty countries. As an example, the nonprofit organization DanceSafe offers on-site testing of the contents of pills and powders at various electronic music events around the US. They also sell kits for users to test the contents of drugs themselves. PillReports.com invites ecstasy users to send samples of drugs for laboratory testing and publishes the results online.\n\nMany schools now provide safer sex education to teen and pre-teen students, who may engage in sexual activity. Since some adolescents are going to have sex, a harm-reductionist approach supports a sexual education which emphasizes the use of protective devices like condoms and dental dams to protect against unwanted pregnancy and the transmission of STIs. This runs contrary to abstinence-only sex education, which teaches that educating children about sex can encourage them to engage in it.\n\nThese programmes have been found to decrease risky sexual behaviour and prevent sexually transmitted diseases. They also reduce rates of unwanted pregnancies. Abstinence only programmes do not appear to affect HIV risks in developed countries with no evidence available for other areas.\n\nSince 1999 some countries have legalized prostitution, such as Germany (2002) and New Zealand (2003). However, in most countries the practice is prohibited. Gathering accurate statistics on prostitution and human trafficking is extremely difficult. This has resulted in proponents of legalization claiming that it reduces organized crime rates while opponents claim exactly the converse. The Dutch prostitution policy, which is one of the most liberal in the world, has gone back and forth on the issue several times. In the period leading up to 2015 up to a third of officially sanctioned work places had been closed down again after reports of human trafficking. Prostitutes themselves are generally opposed to what they see as \"theft of their livelihood\"\n\nDespite the depth of knowledge of HIV/AIDS, rapid transmission has occurred globally in sex workers. The relationship between these two variables greatly increases the risk of transmission among these populations, and also to anyone associated with them, such as their sexual partners, their children, and eventually the population at large.\n\nMany street-level harm-reduction strategies have succeeded in reducing HIV transmission in injecting drug users and sex-workers. HIV education, HIV testing, condom use, and safer-sex negotiation greatly decreases the risk to the disease. Peer education as a harm reduction strategy has especially reduced the risk of HIV infection, such as in Chad, where this method was the most cost-effective per infection prevented.\n\nThe threat of criminal repercussions drives sex-workers and injecting drug users to the margins of society, often resulting in high-risk behaviour, increasing the rate of overdose, infectious disease transmission, and violence. Decriminalisation as a harm-reduction strategy gives the ability to treat drug abuse solely as a public health issue rather than a criminal activity. This enables other harm-reduction strategies to be employed, which results in a lower incidence of HIV infection.\n\nWith the growing concern about psychiatric medication adverse effects and long-term dependency, peer-run mental health groups Freedom Center and The Icarus Project published the Harm Reduction Guide to Coming Off Psychiatric Drugs. The self-help guide provides patients with information to help assess risks and benefits, and to prepare to come off, reduce, or continue medications when their physicians are unfamiliar with or unable to provide this guidance. The guide is in circulation among mental health consumer groups and has been translated into ten languages.\nCritics, such as Drug Free America Foundation and other members of network \"International Task Force on Strategic Drug Policy\", state that a risk posed by harm reduction is by creating the perception that certain behaviours can be partaken of safely, such as illicit drug use, that it may lead to an increase in that behaviour by people who would otherwise be deterred.\n\nHowever, in Switzerland the incidence of heroin abuse has declined sharply since the introduction of heroin assisted treatment. As a study published in The Lancet concluded:\n\nCritics furthermore reject harm reduction measures for allegedly trying to establish certain forms of drug use as acceptable in society:\n\nPope Benedict XVI strongly criticised harm reduction policies with regards to HIV/AIDS, saying that it was \"a tragedy that cannot be overcome by money alone, that cannot be overcome through the distribution of condoms, which even aggravates the problems\". This position was in turn widely criticised for misrepresenting and oversimplifying the role of condoms in preventing infections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54376142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54376142", "title": "Interlingual homograph", "text": "Interlingual homograph\n\nAn interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.\n\nA \"homograph\" is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning. \"Interlingual\" means \"spanning multiple languages\". In some cases, the identical spelling of a word in two languages is coincidental; in other cases, it is because they descend from the same ancestor word. Words that come from the same ancestor are called \"cognates\".\n\nAnother way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are \"orthographically identical\", since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "1740528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1740528", "title": "Into the Open Exhibition", "text": "Into the Open Exhibition\n\nInto the Open, subtitled \"New Paintings, Prints and Sculptures by Contemporary Black Artists\", was an exhibition of art by black artists displayed at various venues in the United Kingdom in 1984.\n\nThis exhibition was the first major survey by a municipal gallery of contemporary work by black artists in Britain, and is considered one of the landmark exhibitions of the 1980s. It was curated, at the invitation of Sheffield City Arts Department, by two people closely involved with black artists in Britain: Pogus Caesar and Lubaina Himid. Their stated aim was to give an indication of the range and richness of art made by contemporary Afro Caribbean artists.\n\nThe \"Into the Open\" exhibition toured in the United Kingdom in 1984, appearing at three venues: the Mappin Art Gallery in Sheffield (4 August–9 September 1984), the Castle Museum in Nottingham (16 September–21 October 1984), and the Newcastle Media Workshops in Newcastle-upon-Tyne (2–24 November 1984). It was organized by the Sheffield Arts Department and was subsidised by the Arts Council of Great Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2668009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2668009", "title": "It's About Time (TV series)", "text": "It's About Time (TV series)\n\nIt's About Time is an American fantasy/science-fiction comedy TV series that aired on CBS for one season of 26 episodes in 1966–1967. The series was created by Sherwood Schwartz, and used sets, props and incidental music from Schwartz's other television series in production at the time, \"Gilligan's Island\".\n\nTwo astronauts, Mac McKenzie (Frank Aletter) and Hector Canfield (Jack Mullaney), travel faster than the speed of light, resulting in being sent back in time to prehistoric days. There, they have to adjust to living with a cave family led by Shad (Imogene Coca) and Gronk (Joe E. Ross). (Coca's character's name was originally pronounced \"Shag\" in the first episode, after which her character's name was pronounced \"Shad\" (evidenced in the rerun episodes on Antenna TV), though in the opening titles, her billing still read \"IMOGENE COCA as SHAG\"; this changed in the episode \"20th Century Here We Come\" when new opening titles were created for the series' retooling and her billing was changed to read \"IMOGENE COCA as SHAD\". Their children were 18-year-old Mlor (Mary Grace, credited in the retooled closing titles as Mary Graham Grace) and 14-year-old Breer (Pat Cardi). The chief of the tribe, Boss (Cliff Norton) and his right-hand man Clon (Mike Mazurki) were always suspicious of the astronauts.\n\nRatings were impressive for the first few weeks on the air, but they soon plunged. Show creator Schwartz came to the conclusion that three factors were the cause of the decline in audience interest:\n\n\nFor these reasons, after 18 broadcast episodes set in prehistoric times, the series was retooled beginning with the January 22, 1967 episode. (A 19th \"prehistoric\" episode had been completed, but it was not broadcast until after the end of the series' original run; this could possibly have been due to its originally scheduled broadcast being preempted for special programming, which happened occasionally to many TV shows, throwing their original broadcast order out of sync when the networks would broadcast the episode at the end of the season's first-run episodes rather than postponing the broadcast until the following week.) Essentially reversing the premise which had been followed the first half of the season, on the January 22 episode, the astronauts repair their space capsule and return to 1967, with Shad, Gronk, and their children in tow. Boss and Clon make their final appearances in this episode, which also introduces two new supporting characters who would stay with the show going forward: Alan DeWitt as Mr. Tyler, manager of the apartment building where Mac and Hector live, and Frank Wilcox as General Morley, their commanding officer.\n\nIn the retooled version of the show (which had an updated theme song, explaining the new premise), the prehistoric family must begin adjusting to life in the 1960s, reacting to the unfamiliar surroundings, and setting up home in 20th-century Los Angeles. For example, one episode had Gronk and Shad learning to write their names and signing them for many salesmen who brought \"presents\", which had to be paid for later. Mac and Hector also had to convince their disbelieving superior that they really did travel in time, and are not playing some sort of elaborate practical joke. Seven episodes were produced with this new premise before the series was cancelled at the end of the season.\n\n\"It's About Time\" is a 1960s typical \"silly\" comedy of the times (in the style of \"Gilligan's Island\", also created by Sherwood Schwartz) about two astronauts who accidentally break the speed of light with their spacecraft and travel back in time to prehistoric Earth, replete with cavemen (and cavewomen) and, anachronistically, dinosaurs. Unable to return to the future, they make friends with the \"natives\", usually through humorous interactions, misunderstandings, and dilemmas. Eventually, they do return to \"modern day\" Earth, taking some of the cavepeople back with them, who must then adjust to living in 1960s Los Angeles.\n\nClassicFlix has released on June 27, 2017 The Complete Series on DVD in region 1. \n\nThe TV series was adapted into a comic strip by Dan Spiegle, distributed by Gold Key Comics. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5513834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5513834", "title": "Jungian interpretation of religion", "text": "Jungian interpretation of religion\n\nThe Jungian interpretation of religion, pioneered by Carl Jung and advanced by his followers, is an attempt to interpret religion in the light of Jungian psychology. Unlike Sigmund Freud and his followers, Jungians tend to treat religious beliefs and behaviors in a positive light, while offering psychological referents to traditional religious terms such as \"soul\", \"evil\", \"transcendence\", \"the sacred\", and \"God\". Because beliefs do not have to be true in order for people to hold them, the Jungian interpretation of religion has been, and continues to be, of interest to psychologists and theists.\n\nJung established a school of psychology which emphasizes the human quest for wholeness (which he defined as the integration of conscious and unconscious components of the psyche) through a process called individuation. Through studying folklore, world mythologies, and the dreams of his patients, Jung identified these components of the psyche as expressions of instinctual patterns (or archetypes). The role of the psychoanalyst in the Jungian approach is to assist the analysand from being overwhelmed by unconscious material or being cut off from the meaning offered by these suprapersonal forces. Jungian analysts typically believe that the psyche is the source of healing and the drive toward individuation.\n\nJung's assessment of Western religion arose both from his own experiences as well as from the psychotherapeutic work with his European clients. As a young man he had visions and dreams that were powerful and rich with meaning, yet he clung to Christianity. While he believed that God could \"do stupendous things to me, things of fire and unearthly light\", he was profoundly disappointed by his first communion—in his words, \"nothing happened\". He saw the same symptoms in his clients, namely, a fascination with the power of the unconscious, coupled with the inadequacy of Western religious symbols and rituals to represent this power. Summing up his analysis of the modern European situation he said: \"Our age wants to experience the psyche for itself ... \"knowledge\", instead of \"faith\".\"\n\nAccording to Jungian training analyst Murray Stein, Jung related theological and psychological constructs using three tenets:\n\nThus, proceeding by tenet #1 in \"Answer to Job\", Jung interpreted Yahweh as an archaic form of the self, Job as the ego, and Satan as the principle of individuation. Jung interprets the evolution of the god-image portrayed in the Old and New Testament as a process of psychological development: In the Book of Job, the archaic self is prompted to develop toward consciousness by the more conscious ego, a process attended by dreams and prophesies (e.g. the Old Testament prophets). The self enters ego-consciousness (the incarnation of God in Jesus of Nazareth), followed by the emergence of the transcendent function (when the Holy Ghost comes to the disciples at Pentecost).\n\nIn \"A Psychological Approach to the Doctrine of the Trinity\", again by tenet #1 Jung interprets the Father as the self, the source of energy within the psyche; the Son as an emergent structure of consciousness that replaces the self-alienated ego; and the Holy Spirit as a mediating structure between the ego and the self. However, Jung believed that the psyche moves toward completion in fours (made up of pairs of opposites), and that therefore (using tenet #3 above) the Christian formulation of the Trinity would give way to a quaternity by including missing aspects (e.g. the feminine and evil). (This analysis prompted Jung to send a congratulatory note to Pope Pius XII in 1950 upon the adoption of the doctrine of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary, to wit completing the quaternity.)\n\nJung wrote a number of books and articles about Eastern religions, including commentaries on the \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\", yoga, and Eastern meditation. He also contributed forewords to books on Zen Buddhism, Holy Men of India, and the \"I Ching\".\n\nCarl Jung and his associate G. R. S. Mead worked on trying to understand and explain the gnostic faith from a psychological standpoint. Jung's analytical psychology in many ways schematically mirrors ancient gnostic mythology, particularly those of Valentinus and the 'classic' gnostic doctrine described in most detail in the \"Apocryphon of John\" (see gnostic schools).\n\nJung understands the emergence of the Demiurge out of the original, unified monadic source of the spiritual universe by gradual stages to be analogous to (and a symbolic depiction of) the emergence of the ego from the unconscious. However, it is uncertain as to whether the similarities between Jung's psychological teachings and those of the Gnostics are due to their sharing a \"perennial philosophy\", or whether Jung was unwittingly influenced by the Gnostics in the formation of his theories. Jung's own 'gnostic hymn', the \"Septem Sermones ad Mortuos\" (The Seven Sermons to the Dead), would tend to imply the latter, but after circulating the manuscript, Jung declined to publish it during his lifetime. Since it is not clear whether Jung was ultimately displeased with the book or whether he merely suppressed it as too controversial, the issue remains contested. Uncertain too are Jung's belief that the gnostics were aware of and intended psychological meaning or significance within their myths.\n\nOn the other hand, it is clear from a comparison of Jung's writings and that of ancient Gnostics, that Jung disagreed with them on the ultimate goal of the individual. Gnostics in ancient times clearly sought a return to a supreme, other-worldly Godhead. In a study of Jung, Robert Segal claimed that the eminent psychologist would have found the psychological interpretation of the goal of ancient Gnosticism (that is, re-unification with the Pleroma, or the unknown God) to be psychically 'dangerous', as being a total identification with the unconscious. To contend that there is at least some disagreement between Jung and Gnosticism is at least supportable: the Jungian process of individuation involves the addition of unconscious psychic tropes to consciousness in order to achieve a trans-conscious centre to the personality. Jung did not intend this addition to take the form of a \"complete\" identification of the Self with the Unconscious.\n\nEdward F. Edinger systematized and extended Jung’s interpretation of the Judeo-Christian God, particularly in his book \"Ego and Archetype\". Professor Wallace Clift, an Episcopal priest, explored similarities between Jung’s vision of humanity as “a story of developing consciousness” with Christianity’s doctrine of “the Holy Spirit understood as present in each person. ... It is not a matter of making out each person a ‘God’, but on the contrary, realizing that within each person lies the potentiality of responding to God by bringing that encounter into consciousness.” He further proposed the existence of a new post-Jungian archetype of \"pilgrimage\".\n\nEpiscopal priest and Jungian analyst John A. Sanford, interprets Jesus’ teachings from a Jungian perspective in his 1970 book \"The Kingdom Within\" in which he associates being a Pharisee with identifying with our mask or persona. He interprets the Devil or temptation to sin as “the inner adversary”, the saying “love your enemies” as the dictate to discover and remove our projections from others, and advocates Jesus as the exemplar of human wholeness, uniting body, soul, spirit, sexuality, eros, and meaning through love. Jungian analyst and professor of psychology and religion Robert L. Moore cites Christ as expressing four archetypes found in the male psyche: the Warrior (in wrestling with his inner demons in the desert and at Gethsemane); the Lover (in radicalizing the commandment to love our neighbors); the Magician (in changing water to wine, feeding the thousands, and healing the sick); and the King (in generating the Kingdom of God, and in identifying himself with the way to the Father).\n\nJames Hillman, founder of archetypal psychology, has done much to expose the unacknowledged or shadow “Christianisms” within Jungian depth psychology itself, \"e.g.\" one barrier to grasping the underworld or domain of Hades as the psychic realm is Christ’s victory over death. Similarly, the model for viewing the shadow as a moral problem is the Christian doctrine of sin. Hillman believes that soul or interiority refers not only to humans but to inanimate objects and to the world. Hillman is critical of Jung’s convention of equating symbols of roundness (e.g. the rose window of a cathedral) with the Self, and discourages the attempt to achieve undivided wholeness by integrating parts. Jung’s Self (representing the inner God) derives from monotheism, and by contrast Hillman encourages a polytheistic perspective.\n\nFr. Victor White, an English Dominican theologian and priest, and Jung carried on a 15 year correspondence. Through their dialog, White attempted to integrate analytical psychology into Catholic theology while Jung attempted to re-interpret Christian symbols. It was clear to White that “Jung was a psychiatrist and not a professional philosopher and/or theologian – and that there were important theological issues which Jung seemed, for whatever reason, not to understand or to value”. One unresolved point was White’s perspective that evil is the absence of good, whereas Jung believed that an adequate god image must include evil to balance the good. In addition, White floundered on Jung’s assumption that the Judeo-Christian god image changes over time, and that it would be replaced by something different in the distant future. In his 1994 book, Richard Noll makes the case that Jung promoted his psychological theories as a pagan religion, and asserts that one cannot be both a Catholic and a Jungian.\n\nThe eminent Jewish theologian and philosopher, Martin Buber, had a lifelong interest in psychoanalysis, and may have attended the same \"Eranos\" conference with Jung in 1934. In 1952 Buber and Jung exchanged letters regarding a paper Buber had published entitled “Religion and Modern Thinking”. In his rejoinder, Buber claimed that Jung had strayed outside his realm of expertise into theology by asserting that God does not exist independent of the psyches of human beings. He concluded that Jung was “mystically deifying the instincts instead of hallowing them in faith”, which he called a “modern manifestation of Gnosis”.\n\nNaomi R. Goldenberg, after reviewing Jung’s idea of archetypes as disembodied Platonic forms and on the damage done to women by the mind-body dichotomy, suggests that “feminist theory radically depart from the Jungian archetype [and] from all systems of thought that posit transcendent, superhuman deities.” While rejecting this part of Jungian theory, she recommends that women can use Jung’s practice of active imagination, or “dreaming the dream onward”, to form a satisfying psychospiritual community. Marie-Louise von Franz’ book analyzing the dreams of the dying concludes that “the unconscious ... prepares [us] not for a definite end but for a profound transformation and for a kind of continuation of the life process”. She joins with Edinger in suggesting that some dreams cannot be adequately interpreted as symbolic representations of subjective inner processes, but are “metaphysical”, hinting at a reality that is deeply mysterious.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5464784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5464784", "title": "Lincoln's ghost", "text": "Lincoln's ghost\n\nThere have been several stories about the ghosts of former Presidents of the United States revisiting the White House, with perhaps the most common and popular one being that of Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln's Ghost, otherwise known as The White House Ghost, is said to have haunted the White House since his death in 1865.\n\nThe White House's most famous alleged apparition is that of Abraham Lincoln. One of Mumler's most famous photographs apparently shows Mary Todd Lincoln with the \"ghost\" of her husband, Abraham Lincoln. Paranormal researcher Melvyn Willin, in his book \"Ghosts Caught on Film\", claims that the photo was taken around 1869 (after Abraham Lincoln's death), and that Mumler did not know that his sitter was Lincoln, instead believing her to be a 'Mrs Tundall'. Willin goes on to say that Mumler did not discover who she was until after the photo was developed. The College of Psychic Studies, referencing notes belonging to William Stainton Moses (who has appeared in photographs by other spirit photographers), claim that the photo was taken in the early 1870s, Lincoln had assumed the name of 'Mrs. Lindall' and that Lincoln had to be encouraged by Mumler's wife (a medium) to identify her husband on the photo. Though the image has been dismissed as being accidental double exposure, it has been widely circulated.\n\nEleanor Roosevelt never admitted to having seen Lincoln's ghost, but did say that she felt his presence repeatedly throughout the White House. She also said that the Roosevelt family dog, Fala, would sometimes bark for no reason at what she felt was Lincoln's ghost.\n\nPresident Dwight Eisenhower's press secretary, James Hagerty, and Liz Carpenter, press secretary to First Lady Lady Bird Johnson, both said they felt Lincoln's presence many times.\n\nThe former president's footsteps are also said to be heard in the hall outside the Lincoln Bedroom.\n\nLillian Rogers Parks stated in her 1961 autobiography \"My Thirty Years Backstairs at the White House\" that she had heard them.\n\nMargaret Truman, daughter of President Harry S. Truman, said she heard a specter rapping at the door of the Lincoln Bedroom when she stayed there, and believed it was Lincoln.\n\nPresident Truman himself was once awakened by raps at the door while spending a night in the Lincoln Bedroom.\n\nSeveral unnamed eyewitnesses have claimed to have seen the shade of Abraham Lincoln actually lying down on the bed in the Lincoln Bedroom (which was used as a meeting room at the time of his administration), and while others have seen Lincoln sit on the edge of the bed and put his boots on. The most famous eyewitness to the latter was Mary Eben, Eleanor Roosevelt's secretary, who saw Lincoln pulling on his boots (after which she ran screaming from the room).\n\nOthers have actually seen an apparition of the former president. The first person reported to have actually seen Lincoln's spirit was First Lady Grace Coolidge, who said she saw the ghost of Lincoln standing at a window in the Yellow Oval Room staring out at the Potomac.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt and Maureen Reagan and her husband have all claimed to have seen a spectral Lincoln in the White House. A number of staff members of the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration claimed to have seen Lincoln's spirit, and on one occasion Roosevelt's personal valet ran screaming from the White House claiming he had seen Lincoln's ghost.\n\nPerhaps the most famous incident was in 1942 when queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands allegedly heard footsteps outside her White House bedroom and answered a knock on the door, only to see Lincoln in frock coat and top hat standing in front of her (she promptly fainted).\n\nBritish Prime Minister Winston Churchill loved to retire late, take a long, hot bath while drinking a Scotch, and smoke a cigar and relax. There is an account that on this occasion, he climbed out of the bath and naked, but for his cigar, walked into the adjoining bedroom. He was startled to see Lincoln standing by the fireplace in the room, leaning on the mantle. Churchill, always quick on the uptake, simply took his cigar out of his mouth, tapped the ash off the end of his cigar and said \"Good evening, Mr. President. You seem to have me at a disadvantage.\" Lincoln smiled softly, as if laughing and disappeared. Churchill smiled in embarrassment.\n\nLincoln's ghost was reportedly seen outside of the White House as well. In Loudonville, New York, Lincoln's ghost was said to haunt a house that was owned by a woman who was present at Ford's Theatre when Lincoln was shot by John Wilkes Booth. Other Lincoln hauntings included his grave in Springfield, Illinois, a portrait of Mary Todd Lincoln and a phantom train on nights in April along the same path his funeral train followed from Washington, D.C. to Springfield.\n\nThe last sighting of Lincoln's ghost was in the early 1980s, when Tony Savoy, White House operations foreman, came into the White House and saw Lincoln sitting in a chair at the top of some stairs.\nAbraham Lincoln is not the only Lincoln ghost witnesses claim to have seen in the White House. Willie Lincoln, Abraham Lincoln's 11-year-old son, died in the White House of typhoid on February 20, 1862. Willie Lincoln's ghost was first reported to have been seen in the White House by staff members of the Grant administration in the 1870s, but reports have been made as recently as the 1960s. President Lyndon B. Johnson's college-age daughter, Lynda Bird Johnson Robb, claims to have seen the ghost and talked to him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6688218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6688218", "title": "Linguistic frame of reference", "text": "Linguistic frame of reference\n\nLinguistic frame of reference is a frame of reference as it is expressed in a language.\nA frame of reference is a coordinate system used to identify location of an object. \nIn languages different frames of reference can be used. They are: the Relative frame of reference, the Intrinsic frame of reference, and the Absolute frame of reference. Each frame of reference in a language can be associated with distinct linguistic expressions.\n\nIntrinsic frame of reference is a binary spatial relation in which the location of an object is defined in relation to a part of another object (its side, back, front, etc.). For instance, \"The cat is in front of the house.\" means that the cat is at that part of the house we call its front, the side of the house that faces the street and has an entrance and maybe a porch.\n\nAbsolute frame of reference is also a binary system in which the location of an object is defined in relation to arbitrary fixed bearings (for instance, cardinal directions (North, South, East, West)). For instance, saying “The cat is to the south of the house” the location of the cat is described independently of the position of the speaker or of any part of the house (as in intrinsic frame of reference). Apart from cardinal directions, fixed bearings such as seacoast, upriver/downriver, and uphill/downhill/across are also used.\n\nRelative frame of reference is a ternary system. The location of an object is expressed in relation to both the viewpoint of the perceiver and position of another object. Thus saying “The cat is to the left of the house” we refer to three points of reference: the cat, the house, and the perceiver himself.\n\nPeople can use multiple frames of reference in communication. For instance, in English all three frames of reference are available and used, however, the use of absolute frame of reference is limited to topographic objects (\"Finland is to the east of Sweden.\"). The preferred frame of reference is the relative one.\nAmong the languages that rely largely on absolute frame of reference there are a lot of Australian aboriginal languages (for instance, Arrernte language, Guugu Yimithirr) and some Mayan languages (for instance, Tzeltal). In Guugu Yimithirr there is no way to say \"The cat is to the left of the house.\" and the only way to describe the location of the cat in relation to the house is \"The cat is to the south of the house.\"\nTo the languages that rely largely on intrinsic frame of reference belong, for instance, Mopan (a Mayan language) or Totonac (a Totonacan language).\nThe use of different frames of reference has a far-reaching effect on the cognition. For instance, in order to be able to communicate in a language with absolute frame of reference the speakers have to run a kind of a mental compass, a remarkable neurocognitive capacity allowing the speakers to identify cardinal directions even in unfamiliar locations.\n\n"}
{"id": "615361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615361", "title": "Lunate", "text": "Lunate\n\nLunate is a crescent or moon-shaped microlith. In the specialized terminology of lithic reduction, a lunate flake is a small, crescent-shaped flake removed from a stone tool during the process of pressure flaking.\n\nIn the Natufian period, a lunate was a small crescent-shaped stone tool that was sometimes used to harvest grasses.\n\nIn archaeology a lunate is a small stone artifact, that has a blunt straight edge and a sharpened crescent shaped back. \nThe word originates from the Latin word lunatus which means to bend like a crescent, and from luna meaning moon in Latin. \nA lunate object can be typically used as a decorative piece or as a stone tool.\n\nIn the earlier findings of Epipaleolithic lunate in the Natufian, Harifian, and Negev Kebaran periods in Israel they were roughly 10–40 mm long and were formed on small blades or bladelets. While the later findings Natufian and Harifian range of lengths varied then from 9–17 mm. In the later period the lunate resulted in 3 specific types.\nThe difference in the three types was also associated with the length of the lunate objects, with Helwan lunate normally being the longest and bipolar being the shortest. \nFor unknown reasons the epipaleolithic lunate tool type disappeared and did not reappear until around the end of the 4th millennium B.C. \nThese Lunate tools were most likely used as barbs in arrow shafts, or as transverse arrowheads coated with poison. The Lunate are also a very rare artifact from the Early Bronze Age because there was not as much emphasis on hunting during that period. The reappearance of Lunate after several millennia could shed some light on the hunting emphasis in the society. \nLunate have been found as far north as the Azor tombs in Israel and was far south as south Sinai in this particular region.\n\nLunate artefacts have been discovered among early Māori stone carving in New Zealand. The original lunate pendant found in New Zealand appears to be of clear transparent pounamu (greenstone), from Ruapuke Island, in Foveaux Strait. Its characteristics include a notched edge and the stone itself is thought to originate from Tangiwai, New Zealand. There was a second rare lunate-shaped object discovered in the New Zealand ethnological region as well.\nA handful of ancient societies shaped their tools in the form of lunate such as the Puebloan peoples who originated around San Juan County, Utah. There have also been findings of lunate used by Puebloan peoples dating back to the 3rd/4th millennium B.C.\n"}
{"id": "2957070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2957070", "title": "Melones, California", "text": "Melones, California\n\nMelones (also, Robinsons Ferry and Robinson's) is a former settlement in Calaveras County, California, now submerged beneath a reservoir named New Melones Lake. It lay at an elevation of 955 feet (291 m). Melones was founded on the site of a ferry operated from 1848 by John W. Robinson and Stephen Mead. The town initially took its name from the ferry.\n\nThe first post office opened in Robinsons Ferry in 1879, the name was changed to Robinson's in 1895, and to Melones in 1902. The post office was closed in 1932, re-established in 1933 and closed for good in 1942.\n\nIn January 1923 Paramount Pictures chose Melones to construct a complete 1849 mining camp set there for the motion picture \"The Covered Wagon\". The studio sent an authentic Sierra Railroad train built in 1897 to the location via the Angels Branch line to Melones.\n\nThe site was submerged under New Melones Lake when the New Melones Dam finished construction and began to fill in April 1, 1978. \n\n"}
{"id": "20482741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20482741", "title": "Midnight Madness (basketball)", "text": "Midnight Madness (basketball)\n\nMidnight Madness is an annual event celebrating the upcoming college basketball season in which a team opens its first official practice to the public, often combining it with a pep rally and other fan-friendly activities. The tradition originated from teams holding public practices at midnight on the earliest day that the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) would allow a practice to be held. In 2013, a new NCAA rule established some flexibility around the opening of a team's practice sessions. As a result, the dates on which teams celebrate Midnight Madness can vary, but most stick with the traditional date of a Friday night closest to October 15.\n\nPrior to the 2013–14 NCAA Division I men's basketball season men's and women's basketball teams were not permitted to practice prior to the Friday closest to October 15. Maryland Terrapins head coach Lefty Driesell began the Midnight Madness tradition at 12:03 a.m. on October 15, 1971 by inviting the public to a 1.5 mile team run. The early practice session was attended by 3,000 fans at the track surrounding Byrd Stadium on the University of Maryland campus. Driesell continued the annual midnight practice session throughout his tenure at Maryland, and brought the tradition with him when he became head coach at Georgia State University. In 2008, that school delayed the event until sunrise for the first time since Driesell established the tradition.\n\nIn 1982, coach Joe B. Hall and the Kentucky Wildcats men's basketball team began to officially promote a celebration dubbed \"Midnight Madness\" as a school event with formal entertainment acts and an invited student audience. This event was held in Memorial Coliseum and held 8,500 people in the then-12,500 seat gym. Big Blue Madness is now televised and hosts celebrities including Drake, who performed in 2014. Another of the more famous events is \"Late Night in the Phog\" at Kansas, which was started in 1985 by Larry Brown and is now broadcast in live streaming video via the Internet. The event has caught on on most campuses; various programs have given away T-shirts and allowed players do stunt dunks and half court shots. Some schools schedule intrasquad scrimmages, three-point shooting contests and/or slam dunk contests. The event is often a co-ed event, in which both the men's and women's teams participate in the celebration, especially at schools like the University of Connecticut, where the men's and women's teams have a combined 15 championships. \"Scout.com\" estimated that in 2007, approximately 160 of the top blue chip high school basketball recruits in the country were attending a Midnight Madness event during the weekend that opens the basketball season.\n\nIn 2013, the NCAA ruled that men's practices could begin two weeks earlier than the traditional date, so long as teams held no more than 30 days of practice in the six weeks prior to the first regular-season game. This change was made to provide more flexible scheduling that accommodated off days in the preseason practice schedule. However, the women's programs rejected moving the date forward so as not to conflict with recruiting. As a result of practices beginning so early, several teams opted to celebrate Midnight Madness later in the six-week practice window.\n\nIn the 21st century, most basketball programs from large Division I schools have planned a pep rally with MCs, music, dancing and other festivities to encourage support of the program. Celebrity guests and alumni participate in entertaining the students. Often, there is significant publicity surrounding the event, which may include televised broadcasts, published press releases and various new media exposure.\n\nSome of the more outlandish occurrences during such events included coach participation, such as Michigan State Spartans men's basketball coach Tom Izzo riding a Harley-Davidson motorcycle onto the court and Florida Gators men's basketball coach Billy Donovan rising out of a coffin. Although signing week, when top recruits sign letters of intent that commit them to specific schools, does not occur until November, blue chip high school recruits are sometimes welcomed at these events even in their junior years. Usually a prescribed number of fans (such as the first 1,000) receive a gifts such as t-shirts, posters, autographs, road game vacation packages, and other free paraphernalia. At many such events, a student is chosen for a half-court shot giveaway. Sometimes the events are televised live by sports networks such as the Big Ten Network, and other times highlights are shown on highlight shows such as ESPN's \"SportsCenter\". ESPNU has begun extensive yearly coverage of midnight madness events and in 2008 televised events at Davidson College, the University of Kansas, Georgetown University, Gonzaga University and Indiana University. The events have been reported for years in print media such as newspapers, magazines and the internet. Although Midnight Madness has become a prime time event for many premier basketball programs, some schools have continued the tradition of having their first practice at 12:00 on the first day regular practice is allowed.\n\nAs of 2006, the University of Kentucky held the record for attendance at this type of sports rally with an attendance of 23,312 at Rupp Arena. Kentucky has sold out Rupp Arena multiple times for what they call \"Big Blue Madness\" and in the 2008–09 Kentucky Wildcats men's basketball season fans had to camp out in lines for days in advance to obtain tickets.\n\nOne celebratory function of the evening is often to raise NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament or Final Four banners to the rafters in an official ceremony. In 2008, both 2008 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament finalists, the Kansas Jayhawks men's basketball and Memphis Tigers men's basketball teams, did so during their respective Midnight Madness event. The October 16, 2009 celebrations occurred on many campuses and a sampling were aired on the ESPN family of networks. Five Big Ten Conference schools celebrated Midnight Madness.\n\nIn 2008, some teams attempted to host Midnight Madness in association with special early restricted practices instead of the first day of regular practices. These universities felt that since their football teams had home games the week before the opening date of formal practices, which had become the traditional Midnight Madness date, they would be better off holding Midnight Madness on the weekend before. In 2008, teams were allowed to practice two hours per week between September 15 and October 17 under what is known as the \"Offseason Workout Rule,\" and at least four notable public \"practice\" sessions (by Illinois, Kentucky, Marshall and West Virginia) were held during these weekly practices before daily practices were permitted. At the University of Illinois, the Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball and women's basketball teams hosted scrimmages at Memorial Stadium after an October 11 game between the Illinois Fighting Illini football team and the Minnesota Golden Gophers football team. Since the attendance for the football game was 62,870, this event was described as the \"World's Largest Basketball Practice\". Charlie Zegers reports that the practice session events occurred both at halftime and after the game.\n\nKentucky was one of the schools that held their public practice event a week early in part because they could lure more recruiting prospects during a week when most other programs were not hosting similar events. The National Association of Basketball Coaches asked the Southeastern Conference to force Kentucky to adhere to the traditionally scheduled practice to no avail. They then belatedly petitioned the NCAA to legislate conformity unsuccessfully. Kentucky coach Billy Gillispie had contacted the Kentucky's compliance office, the SEC and the NCAA to ensure that no rules were being violated.\nIllinois head coach Bruce Weber had also received permission for the early practice festivities from the NCAA. He had proposed having a September 13 session in association with a home football game against Louisiana–Lafayette. The date with the Ragin' Cajuns would have in all likelihood been a more favorable day in terms of the climate, but this date preceded even the Offseason Workout Rule dates. It is anticipated that in the future, public basketball practices linked to the Offseason Workout Rule will be banned. Illinois claimed that their date change was not intended to give it a recruiting advantage in terms of scheduling conflicts.\n"}
{"id": "1140294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140294", "title": "Molly Bloom", "text": "Molly Bloom\n\nMolly Bloom is a fictional character in the novel \"Ulysses\" by James Joyce. The wife of main character Leopold Bloom, she roughly corresponds to Penelope in the \"Odyssey\". The major difference between Molly and Penelope is that while Penelope is eternally faithful, Molly is not. Molly is having an affair with Hugh 'Blazes' Boylan. Molly, whose given name is Marion, was born in Gibraltar on 8 September 1870, the daughter of Major Tweedy, an Irish military officer, and Lunita Laredo, a Gibraltarian of Spanish descent. Molly and Leopold were married on 8 October 1888. She is the mother of Milly Bloom, who, at the age of 15, has left home to study photography. She is also the mother of Rudy Bloom, who died at the age of 11 days. In Dublin, Molly is an opera singer of some renown.\n\nThe final chapter of \"Ulysses\", often called \"Molly Bloom's Soliloquy\", is a long and unpunctuated stream of consciousness passage comprising her thoughts as she lies in bed next to Bloom.\n\nMolly Bloom's soliloquy is the eighteenth and final \"episode\" of \"Ulysses\", in which the thoughts of Molly Bloom are presented in contrast to those of the previous narrators, Leopold Bloom and Stephen Dedalus. Molly's physicality is often contrasted with the intellectualism of the male characters, Stephen Dedalus in particular.\n\nJoyce's novel presented the action with numbered \"episodes\" rather than named chapters. Most critics since Stuart Gilbert, in his \"James Joyce's Ulysses\", have named the episodes and they are often called chapters. The final chapter is referred to as \"Penelope\", after Molly's mythical counterpart.\n\nIn the course of the monologue, Molly accepts Leopold into her bed, frets about his health, and then reminisces about their first meeting and about when she knew she was in love with him. The final words of Molly's reverie, and the very last words of the book, are:\n\nJoyce noted in a 1921 letter to Frank Budgen that \"[t]he last word (human, all too human) is left to Penelope.\" The episode both begins and ends with \"yes\", a word that Joyce described as \"the female word\" and that he said indicated \"acquiescence, self-abandon, relaxation, the end of all resistance.\" This last, clear \"yes\" stands in sharp contrast to her unintelligible first spoken line in the fourth chapter of the novel.\n\nMolly's soliloquy consists of eight enormous \"sentences\", The concluding period following the final words of her reverie is one of only two punctuation marks in the chapter, the periods at the end of the fourth and eighth \"sentences\". When written this episode contained the longest \"sentence\" in English literature, 4,391 words expressed by Molly Bloom (it was surpassed in 2001 by Jonathan Coe's \"The Rotters' Club\").\n\nJoyce modelled the character upon his wife, Nora Barnacle; indeed, the day upon which the novel is set — June 16, 1904, now called Bloomsday — is that of their first date. Nora Barnacle's letters also almost entirely lacked capitalization or punctuation; Anthony Burgess has said that \"sometimes it is hard to distinguish between a chunk of one of Nora's letters and a chunk of Molly's final monologue\". Some research also points to another possible model for Molly in Amalia Popper, one of Joyce's students to whom he taught English while living in Trieste. Amalia Popper was the daughter of a Jewish businessman named Leopoldo Popper, who had worked for a European freight forwarding company (Adolf Blum & Popper) founded in 1875 in its headquarters in Hamburg by Adolf Blum, after whom Leopold Bloom was named. In the (now published) manuscript \"Giacomo Joyce\", are images and themes Joyce used in \"Ulysses\" and \"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33415544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33415544", "title": "Morphotactics", "text": "Morphotactics\n\nMorphotactics represent the ordering restrictions in place on the ordering of morphemes. Etymologically, it can be translated as \"the set of rules that define how morphemes (morpho) can touch (tactics) each other\".\n\nMany English affixes may only be attached directly to morphemes with particular parts of speech:\nbut\nThe suffix \"-ity\" produces a noun from an adjective, and \"-able\" creates abstract nouns from verbs. To reverse the order violates the rules of English morphotactics, making the word ungrammatical (marked with an asterisk).\n\nFinite-state machine and Graph are the two models which are often used as a set of rules for morphotactics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22523448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22523448", "title": "NNEST", "text": "NNEST\n\nNNEST ( ) or non-native English-speaking teachers is an acronym that refers to the growing body of English language teachers who speak English as a foreign or second language. The term was coined to highlight the dichotomy between native English-speaking teachers (NEST) and non-native English-speaking teachers (NNEST).\n\nIssues related to NNESTs attract the attention of language teachers, language specialists, teacher educators, and graduate students from all over the world. TESOL (Teachers of English to the Speakers of Other Languages) organization has a NNEST Interest Section. Two local TESOL affiliates in North America, WATESOL (Washington Area TESOL) and CATESOL (California TESOL) have NNEST entities.\n\nHistorically speaking, native speaker is defined as \"the first language a human being learns to speak is his native language; he is a native speaker of this language\" by Leonard Bloomfield. Later on, theoretical linguistics realm placed native speaker construct into an idealized position and assumed that native speaker is the only reliable source of linguistic data by formulating the construct that of an \"ideal speaker-listener, in a completely homogenous speech community\", as defined by Noam Chomsky. Since then, the construct has been critically discussed in the field of English language teaching. Some of the researchers argued that second language acquisition research under the dominance of idealized native speaker model creates a \"monolingual bias in second language acquisition (SLA) theory\", and \"elevates an idealized native speaker above a stereotypical 'nonnative' while viewing the latter as a defective communicator, limited by an underdeveloped communicative competence\". On the other hand, it was further argued that the native speaker \"exists only as a figment of linguist's imagination\" and concluded that it is \"more like a myth than a reality\".\n\nProblematic nature of the native speaker-non-native speaker dichotomy was blended with the growing body of literature discussing the unfair treatment and marginalization of non-native English-speaking teachers in the ELT profession. Robert Phillipson (1992) formulated \"native speaker fallacy\", which suggests that the ideal teacher of English is a native speaking teacher. Being a non-native speaking teacher was considered to be a distinct quality by George Braine (1999) who argued that \"the very fact that non-native speakers of a language have undergone the process of learning a language makes them better qualified to teach the language than those who are born to it\". \n\n\"...highly ironic, considering the profession's strident championing of multiculturalism, diversity, and other sociopolitical causes, often on behalf of ESL students and immigrants. Although ESL students are praised and admired for the multiculturalism and diversity they bring into language classes, non-native English teachers, who can contribute their rich multicultural, multilingual experiences, are often barred from the same classes.\"\n\n<br> A number of edited volumes were published on issues related to NNESTs.\n\nThere are basically two arguments that support the use of term \"non-native English-speaking teachers\". First, it is believed that the term is necessary to distinguish between native and non-native English-speaking teachers as well as strengths attributed to these groups. Second, it is also believed that the term is necessary to highlight the discrimination based on the dichotomy.\n\nOpponents of the term argue that \"differentiating among teachers based on their status as native or nonnative speakers perpetuates the dominance of the native speaker in the ELT profession and contributes to discrimination in hiring practices\"(Maum, 2002).\nBelow are some of the alternatives to replace the term \"NNEST\":\n\nDespite the fact that today, about 80% of English language teachers in the world are non-native English-speaking teachers, English is no longer considered to be an exclusive possession of native speakers, and it \"belongs to all people who speak it, whether native and nonnative, whether ESL or EFL, whether standard or non-standard\" (Norton 1997), NNESTs encounter discriminatory practices all around the world. There have been several research studies exploring the hiring preferences of administrators which empirically demonstrated the importance of 'nativeness' as a job requirement. In addition, online job repositories such as Dave's ESL Café, Chronicle of Higher Education, or TESOL's Online Career Center host job advertisements which include 'nativeness' as a job requirement.\nDiscriminatory practices against NNESTs in English language teaching generated a series of institutionalized anti-discriminatory practices such as \"Statement on Nonnative Speakers of English and Hiring Practices\" and \"Position Statement against Discrimination of Nonnative Speakers of English in the Field of TESOL\". In addition, it was decided in ASEAN 2005 Conference to establish \"Centers for English Language Training\" in South-East Asian countries to support local solutions to local needs by means of local tools.\n\nIssues related to NNEST include but not limited to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "412846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412846", "title": "Naturalistic pantheism", "text": "Naturalistic pantheism\n\nNaturalistic pantheism is a kind of pantheism. It has been used in various ways such as to relate God or divinity with concrete things, determinism, or the substance of the Universe. God, from these perspectives, is seen as the aggregate of all unified natural phenomena. The phrase has often been associated with the philosophy of Baruch Spinoza, although academics differ on how it is used.\n\nThe term “pantheism\" is derived from Greek words \"pan\" (Greek: πᾶν) meaning \"all\" and \"theos\" (θεός) meaning God. It was coined by Joseph Raphson in his work \"De spatio reali\", published in 1697. The term was introduced to English by Irish writer John Toland in his 1705 work \"Socinianism Truly Stated, by a pantheist\" that described pantheism as the \"opinion of those who believe in no other eternal being but the universe.\"\n\nThe term \"naturalistic\" derives from the word \"naturalism\", which has several meanings in philosophy and aesthetics. In philosophy the term frequently denotes the view that everything belongs to the world of nature and can be studied with the methods appropriate for studying that world, \"i.e.\" the sciences. It generally implies an absence of belief in supernatural beings.\n\nJoseph Needham, a modern British scholar of Chinese philosophy and science, has identified Taoism as \"a naturalistic pantheism which emphasizes the unity and spontaneity of the operations of Nature.\" This philosophy can be dated to the late 4th century BCE.\n\nThe Hellenistic Greek philosophical school of Stoicism (which started in the early 3rd century BCE) rejected the dualist idea of the separate ideal/conscious and material realms, and identified the substance of God with the entire cosmos and heaven. However, not all philosophers who did so can be classified as naturalistic pantheists.\n\nNaturalistic pantheism was expressed by various thinkers, including Giordano Bruno, who was burned at the stake for his views. However, the 17th century Dutch philosopher Spinoza became particularly known for it.\n\nPossibly drawing upon the ideas of Descartes,\nBaruch Spinoza connected God and Nature through the phrase \"deus sive natura\" (\"God, or Nature\"), making him the father of classical pantheism. He relied upon rationalism rather than the more intuitive approach of some Eastern traditions.\n\nSpinoza's philosophy, sometimes known as Spinozism, has been understood in a number of ways, and caused disagreements such as the Pantheism controversy. However, many scholars have considered it to be a form of naturalistic pantheism. This has included viewing the pantheistic unity as natural. \nOthers focus on the deterministic aspect of naturalism.\nSpinoza inspired a number of other pantheists, with varying degrees of idealism towards nature. However, Spinoza's influence in his own time was limited.\nScholars have considered Spinoza the founder of a line of naturalistic pantheism, though not necessarily the only one.\n\nIn 1705 the Irish writer John Toland endorsed a form of pantheism in which the God-soul is identical with the material universe.\n\nGerman naturalist Ernst Haeckel (1834–1919) proposed a monistic pantheism in which the idea of God is identical with that of nature or substance.\n\nThe World Pantheist Movement, started in 1999, describes Naturalistic Pantheism as including reverence for the universe, realism, strong naturalism, and respect for reason and the scientific method as methods of understanding the world. Paul Harrison considers its position the closest modern equivalent to Toland's.\n\n"}
{"id": "34271485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34271485", "title": "Never Again the Burning Times", "text": "Never Again the Burning Times\n\nNever Again the Burning Times: Paganism Revisited is an anthropological study of the Wiccan and wider Pagan community in the United States. It was written by the American anthropologist Loretta Orion and published by Waveland Press in 1995.\n\nThe reviews published in specialist academic journals were largely negative, and while accepting that Orion had made note of some interesting insights, they criticized her for promoting and defending, rather than analyzing, the religious movement that she was discussing, something that they attributed to her openly Pagan beliefs.\n\nContemporary Paganism, which is also referred to as Neo-Paganism, is an umbrella term used to identify a wide variety of modern religious movements, particularly those influenced by or claiming to be derived from the various pagan beliefs of pre-modern Europe. The religion of Pagan Witchcraft, or Wicca, was developed in England during the first half of the 20th century and is one of several Pagan religions. The figure at the forefront of Wicca's early development was the English occultist Gerald Gardner (1884–1964), the author of \"Witchcraft Today\" (1954) and \"The Meaning of Witchcraft\" (1959) and the founder of a tradition known as Gardnerian Wicca. Gardnerian Wicca revolved around the veneration of both a Horned God and a Mother Goddess, the celebration of eight seasonally-based festivals in a Wheel of the Year and the practice of magical rituals in groups known as covens. Gardnerianism was subsequently brought to the U.S. in the early 1960s by an English initiate, Raymond Buckland (1934–), and his then-wife Rosemary, who together founded a coven in Long Island.\n\nIn the U.S., new variants of Wicca developed, including Dianic Wicca, a tradition founded in the 1970s which was influenced by second wave feminism, emphasized female-only covens, and rejected the veneration of the Horned God. One initiate of both the Dianic and Gardnerian traditions was a woman known as Starhawk (1951–) who went on to found her own tradition, Reclaiming Wicca, as well as publishing \"The Spiral Dance: a Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Great Goddess\" (1979), a book which helped spread Wicca throughout the U.S.\n\nPrior to Berger's work, several American researchers working in the field of Pagan studies had separately published investigations of the Pagan community in both the United States and the United Kingdom. The first of these had been the practicing Wiccan, journalist and political activist Margot Adler in her \"Drawing Down the Moon: Witches, Druids, Goddess-Worshippers, and Other Pagans in America Today\", which was first published by Viking Press in 1979.\n\nA second study was produced by the anthropologist Tanya M. Luhrmann in her \"Persuasions of the Witch's Craft: Ritual Magic in Contemporary England\" (1989), in which she focused on both a Wiccan coven and several ceremonial magic orders that were then operating in London.\n\nIn a largely negative review published in the \"Anthropos\" journal, T.O. Beidelman called \"Never Again the Burning Times\" a \"contradictory work\", believing that whilst it was \"fascinating\" as \"a compilation of ethnographic material describing what many neopagans in contemporary America believe and do\", he also felt that \"as a social analysis\" it was \"very muddled\". Expressing concern over Orion's Pagan beliefs and the influence that these had over her study, he felt that much of the logic used in the book was \"weak\", and that her \"analytical efforts\" were \"equally unsatisfactory\". Furthermore, he argued that whilst \"it is always helpful for a researcher to have sympathy with any group she or he studies\", Orion's study was \"more a missionary tract than social analysis\", with an emphasis on portraying the contemporary Pagan movement in a positive light. Ultimately, Beidelman felt that he \"cannot recommend this as a sociological or anthropological analysis or even as a reliable historical account of the origins or meaning of beliefs about witches in anthropology or in Western culture in general.\" Nonetheless, he did feel that he can \"warmly recommend this as an absorbing account of what one educated and thoughtful person may think after being converted to contemporary neopagan beliefs and having joined such a religious movement.\"\n\nThe anthropologist Tanya Luhrmann (1959–) of the University of California, San Diego – who had previously authored \"Persuasions of the Witches' Craft: Ritual Magic in Contemporary England\" (1989) – also published a predominantly negative review of the book, this time in the \"Journal of Anthropological Research\", in which she also reviewed another study of Wicca that had been published in the mid-1990s, Allen Scarboro, Nancy Campbell and Shirley Stave's \"Living Witchcraft: A Contemporary American Coven\". Describing \"Never Again the Burning Times\", Luhrmann stated that it was \"an insider's book with a scholar's surface, and while it has the appeal of an apologia, it also has the gullibility of a book on the occult rather than a distanced perspective on it.\" She proceeded to discuss how Orion \"writes as if she uncritically accepted the practitioners' understanding of their history and their actions\", criticizing Orion's belief in magic as a real physical force. Luhrmann goes on to cast a critical eye on many of Orion's claims, believing that many of her statements have a \"naive, unscholarly feel\" and states her surprise that in the book Orion \"implies that pagan healing is more effective than modern medicine\". On a more positive note, Luhrmann comments that \"Orion paints a good and interesting portrait of witchcraft\" that contains some \"important data\", with particular praise for Orion's discussion of the issue of \"how our fantasy life relates to our mental health\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33777350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33777350", "title": "Nichita Smochină", "text": "Nichita Smochină\n\nNichita P. Smochină (, Russian and Moldovan Cyrillic: Никита Смокинэ, \"Nikita Smokine\"; also known as M. Florin; March 14, 1894 – December 14, 1980) was a Transnistrian-born activist, scholar and political figure, especially noted for campaigning on behalf of ethnic Romanians in the Soviet Union. He was first active in the Russian Empire, serving with distinction in World War I, then in the Ukrainian People's Republic, where he earned his reputation as a champion of Transnistrian Romanian interests. An anti-communist, he narrowly escaped the Bolsheviks and crossed into Romania, which became his second home. A protégé of historian Nicolae Iorga, Smochină earned his academic credentials and also made himself known internationally as an expert on minority rights. Beginning in the 1920s, he contributed to historical research, ethnography and folkloristics, as well as jurisprudence.\n\nDuring most of World War II, Smochină backed the authoritarian regime of Ion Antonescu and paid service to Gheorghe Alexianu's Transnistria Governorate. His scientific work included a recovery of pre-Bolshevik or anti-Russian Romanian folklore in Transnistria and beyond. Such activities, along with his exposure of Soviet brutality, made him a wanted man once the communist regime took over in Romania. He was eventually captured, sent to prison and deprived of his academic honors. Partly reinstated by the late 1960s, he spent his final decades encouraging the second-generation communist authorities to take a firmer stand against controversial Soviet policies such as \"Moldovenism\".\n\nNichita Smochină was born on the confines of historical Moldavia and Bessarabia: the entire Transnistrian region was at the time part of the Russian Kherson Governorate. As he himself later recounted, the bountiful eastern bank of the Dniester was home to a thriving Romanian community, or, as he put it, a veritable \"Romanian California\". His later research traced the first Romanian presence in that area to the Dark Ages, revived by the Cossack Hetmanate's border policy, particularly in the 1650s. According to him, there were two main stages in the migration and resettlement of Moldavian peasants to what became his homeland. The first was under Moldavian Prince George Ducas (late 17th century); the second under Russian Empress Catherine the Great. Smochină spoke in detail about the Romanian colonies of 18th-century \"New Russia\", that reached as far east as Oleksandriya.\n\nThe Smochinăs themselves were descendants of Romanian yeomen (\"răzeși\"), originally from Moldavia, and reportedly spoke an archaic variant of the Romanian language. The literary historian Al. Husar, who met Smochină in the 1940s, recalled that his use of the eastern dialect had the \"scent of ages\", and \"seemed to me a wonder of the Romanian language.\"\n\nSmochină's place of birth was Mahala village, on the eastern, non-Bessarabian, shore of the Dniester. After completing his primary education in Dubăsari (\"Dubossary\"), he went to a Russian Cadet school and, reportedly, worked as a clerk for Dubăsari Tribunal. He was interested in philology and, with time, became one of the few Romanian experts in the study of Old Church Slavonic. When World War I erupted, he was serving in the Imperial Russian Army. His services were rewarded with the Order of St. George and thus joined the ranks of Russian nobility. \n\nThe February Revolution caught Smochină behind the Caucasian Front. He was appointed military delegate by a Congress of Peoples in Tbilisi, sent over to Petrograd for negotiations with the Soviet of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies (summer 1917). As he later noted, he happened to hear a speech given by Vladimir Lenin, leader of the ultra-revolutionary Bolshevik faction, who was working to topple the Russian Provisional Government. Smochină was intrigued by Lenin's promise of self-determination for all of Russia's minorities: \"As a Moldavian, I found this issue to be one of greatest interest\". Smochină was interested in finding out Lenin's level of commitment in this respect, and was received for an interview (as he recalled, this was only possible because one of Lenin's bodyguards was originally from Mahala).\n\nAccording to Smochină's own rendition of the encounter, when asked about his vision on the Moldavian question, Lenin began by stating: \"You Moldavians have no interest in fighting on the side of Russia, who for centuries now has been enslaving your kind. Culturally, Moldavians are far more advanced than Russians.\" The thing to do, Lenin said, was for Moldavians to take up arms and fight against the two \"oppressors\": Russia and \"landowners' Romania\". According to Smochină, Lenin openly agreed that Moldavians, Bessarabians and Romanians were in essence the same demonym: \"Take inspiration from your Romanian blood brothers, but, again, beware of falling into the paws of Romanian boyar exploiters. [...] all Moldavians are Romanians\". \n\nThe Bolshevik theorist appears to have incited the Transnistrians and Bessarabians to spread the flame of revolution into \"boyar Romania\", to \"drown the hell out of the Romanian king and set up a Soviet Romania\". Reportedly, Lenin also urged the Transnistrian delegate to personally to sabotage the war effort on the Caucasus Front, fraternize with the Ottomans and demand \"peace without annexations or indemnities\". As some Romanian historians have noted, \"Lenin was not about to curb [a nation's independence], but did not specify in sufficiently clear terms what would happen if they should want to achieve self-determination in any social order other than communism.\"\n\nSmochină returned to his place of origin, which was being progressively included in the newly emancipated Ukrainian People's Republic, and began defending the interests of local Romanians. As head of the Mahala \"Zemstvo\", he tried to prevent the breakdown of social and military order, and narrowly escaped with his life after being pursued by the Bolshevik committees. In December 1917, after a pro-Romanian Moldavian Democratic Republic had taken root in Bessarabia, he and Gheorghe Mare were involved with the separatist Congress of Transnistrian Moldavians in Tiraspol, where they flew the Romanian tricolor. Smochină stated: \"We love our Country so much, that even our icons look to Romania.\" By 1918, he had become Prefect of Tiraspol, then regional envoy to the Central Rada of Kiev, the Ukrainian capital.\n\nMeanwhile, the union of Bessarabia with Romania had been effected on the western side of Transnistria, whereas the region itself was made part of the Bolshevik Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, as the Moldavian Autonomous Oblast. Smochină's experience of Bolshevik rule was painful, and he recalled war communism as a trauma: \"their entire property taken away, [Romanians in Transnistria] were left naked, downtrodden, worse off than during slavery\". He escaped Soviet Ukraine on 25 December 1919, and crossed the Dniester into Greater Romania, settling in the former Moldavian capital of Iași. According to Smochină, his relatives were exposed to violent Bolshevik reprisals: his father and his female cousin were shot, and the rest were deported to Siberia. His wife Agafia escaped with him, but Alexandru was left behind. He joined them in 1922, when a courier commissioned by the father took him over to Iași. In Romania, the couple had another daughter, baptized Claudia.\n\nWhile in Iași, Smochină met with jurist Ioan Teodorescu, who helped him enroll at the Iași University Department of Philosophy and Law. He graduated in 1924, having by then also studied Psychology with Constantin Fedeleș. Smochină joined up with other Transnistrian refugee students during his college term, and militated for increased awareness of their situation; however, he was also a critic of all Romanians arriving from Russia, noting that the Russian education system left them poorly trained and superficial. He first began associating with a circle of Bessarabian Romanians, and became friends with Bessarabian Peasants' Party founder Pan Halippa, heralding humanitarian projects to feed and integrate refugee children. It was during those years that Nichita Smochină befriended the senior historian and nationalist politician Nicolae Iorga, a professor at the University of Bucharest. As early as 1922, he was invited by Iorga's Cultural League for the Unity of All Romanians to attend their Curtea de Argeș Congress and speak about Transnistrian grievances.\n\nNichita Smochină also joined the Romanian Freemasonry (the \"Vasile Alecsandri\" Lodge), and, according to his own recollections, lectured other Masons on the plight of Transnistrians. Smochină met celebrated novelist Mihail Sadoveanu, who was later the Grand Master of a Freemasonry branch. There was mutual dislike between the two: Smochină accused Sadoveanu of trafficking Freemasonry's services, of not being moved by the fate of Transnistria, and of ultimately destroying other Masons who crossed his path. The Transnistrian activist despised two other figures from Romania's left-wing Poporanist camp, Alexandru Mîță and fellow Mason Gheorghe Stere, both of whom he depicted as unprincipled agents of Bolshevism.\n\nThis phase coincided with Soviet Transnistria's elevation in administrative status—that is, the establishment of a Moldavian ASSR on Oblast territory, in the newly proclaimed Soviet Union. Although refugees were convinced that the Soviet Union was \"a prison of the peoples\", Smochină and some of his colleagues gave positive review to the move, seeing it as an implicit recognition of Moldavian (and therefore Romanian) self-rule.\n\nFrom 1924, Smochină's overviews of Transnistrian Romanian life were published with regularity in Iorga's \"Ramuri\" and \"Drum Drept\" magazines. In 1924, the former published his contributions to the ethnography of Romanian communities located between the Dniester and the Taurida Governorate. He was also a contributor to the Transylvanian review \"Societatea de Mâine\", with a 1925 article on Christmas customs as preserved over the Dniester. He was later a manager of \"Tribuna Românilor Transnistrieni\" (\"Tribune of the Romanian Transnistrians\"), published from 1927 to 1928 in the Bessarabian city of Chișinău. The review had contributions from various Bessarabian Romanian activists (Halippa, Ștefan Bulat) and reported on new cases of human rights abuse in the Moldavian ASSR, such as the forceful relocation of Romanians away from the Dniester.\n\nRomanian researcher Petre Popescu Gogan describes Smochină as: \"a man of The Law, with a calling for human rights and the rights of peoples [...]. Asked to have his say on the issue of Minority Rights, [he] worked in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and took part in international congresses on the matter.\" From 1930 to 1935, the Transnistrian scholar was in France, where he furthered his studies. He was sponsored by Iorga, who awarded him a scholarship and put him up for the Romanian School of Fontenay-aux-Roses, receiving some more assistance from Halippa. He focused his research on recovering old texts from sources such as the \"Bibliothèque Nationale\" and \"Musée Slave\". In the end, he took a Ph.D. in History, with Ferdinand Lot as his doctoral advisor. He also began teaching Romanian at \"Société pour la Propagation des Langues Etrangères\", a learned society funded by the University of Paris. At the time, Smochină's first account of the 1917 Lenin interview was published by \"Le Prométhée\", the propaganda outlet for the Georgian Government in Exile. He also built contacts with the White émigré cells, meeting with philosopher Nikolai Berdyaev.\n\nConcentrating on informing the world decision-makers about the Transnistrian question, Nichita Smochină was, in 1930, a delegate to International Congress of National Minorities (a League of Nations partnership). While in Paris, he also set up the Aid Committee for Moldavian Transnistrian Refugees, and campaigned for the international condemnation of reported Soviet mass murders in Transnistria (1932). At the time, Smochină's pro-Romania group was challenged by the Soviet-funded Association of Bessarabian Émigrés, whose platform was the whole absorption of Bessarabia into the Moldavian ASSR.\n\nHis scholarly work included a biographical sketch on Danylo (Dănilă) Apostol, the 18th-century Moldavian \"Hetman\" of Left-bank Ukraine. It saw print in Romania in 1930, together with his monograph on Moldavian mercenaries fighting on either side of the Great Northern War. The Apostol book was then reprinted in the popular history collection \"Cunoștințe utile\" (\"Useful Knowledge\"). In 1933, Paris' \"Librairie Universitaire J. Gamber\" published his monograph on Ion Brătianu, the founder of Romanian liberalism, focusing on Brătianu's trial for sedition in 1850s France. The work was reviewed by \"Revue des Questions Historiques\", which noted that Smochină's style lacked \"order\" and \"clarity\", and could prove chronologically inaccurate. At around that time, the Transnistrian researcher announced that he was also preparing an overview of the Freemasonry's contribution to the first union of Romania (1859).\n\nIn January 1935, Smochină launched a new periodical, titled \"Moldova Nouă\" (\"New Moldavia\"). Its opening manifesto, expressing a program of the Cultural Association of Transnistrians, promised to provide the Romanian public with a \"generic culture\" on the Moldavian life in Soviet lands, and to follow the principles of \"objectivity, scientific truth [and] the national idea\". This multilingual review, put out by an editorial headquarters in Iași and the Brawo printing press of Bucharest, only survived until 1936. Before closing down, the review had featured his essay \"Republica Moldovenească a Sovietelor\" (\"The Moldavian Republic of Soviets\"), later published by Cartea Românească as a volume. In 1935, also with \"Moldova Nouă\", Smochină released his French-language study \"Les Moldaves de Russie Soviétique\" (\"The Moldavians of Soviet Russia\"), illustrated with samples of Romanian folklore from the region—songs about cultural isolation and the impact of Russification. He was also contributing to Iorga's academic journal, \"Revue Historique du Sud-Est Européen\". His essays there included the 1936 review of the Moldavian ASSR's standard primer \"Kuvyntu nostru\", evidencing the agitprop aspect of Soviet education, the vilifying of \"kulak\" elements in Transnistrian society, and the plagiarizing of Romanian textbooks.\n\nSome two years later, Smochină, using the pseudonym \"M. Florin\", began contributing to the Poporanist review \"Însemnări Ieșene\", where he reviewed the work of Bessarabian folklorist Tatiana Gălușcă-Crâșmaru. He followed up in 1939 with \"Din literatura populară a românilor de peste Nistru\" (\"Samples of Romanian Folk Literature in Areas over the Dniester\"), a communication for the Cluj-based scientific review \"Anuarul Arhivei de Folclor\". It notably samples Transnistrian mournful lyrics about forced recruitment during the Russo-Turkish Wars. That year, he carried out ethnographic interviews within the Romanian Transnistrian exile community, on behalf of the Romanian Academy. As argued by ethnographer Constantin Eretescu, such contributions made Smochină \"the most significant researcher of folk culture in that area.\"\n\nHis main activity in advancing the cause of Transnistrians was creating the Association of Transnistrian Romanians. It was designed to give further support to the Romanian refugees from that region, who were estimated at 20,000. Smochină himself estimated that there were in all some 1,200,000 Romanians living in the Moldavian ASSR, forming 80% of the native population—this remains the highest such estimate, significantly ahead of the number advanced in the 1910s by activist Alexis Nour. By the late 1930s, Smochină was contributing to Iorga's summer school program in Vălenii de Munte town. Physician G. Brătescu, who attended these conferences as an adolescent, notes that Smochină gave \"frightening accounts\" of life in Transnistria. Brătescu, who was also being introduced to Romanian Communist Party propaganda, also recalled that local communists dismissed Smochină's discourse as \"fabrications by a provocateur, a bitter enemy of communism.\"\n\nSmochină's political and scientific activities were affected by the 1940 Soviet occupation of Bessarabia. He escaped Chișinău in time, but his research material was left behind. The Stalinist regime declared him a \"persona non grata\", and Soviet censorship repossessed and banned all of his published volumes. Smochină was to accuse the Soviet authorities of vandalizing the Chișinău printing press where he was publishing a voluminous scientific work, reportedly lost in the process. As a representative of the Transnistrian community, Smochină attached himself the Bessarabian Circle of Bucharest, presided over by Gherman Pântea. Also escaping the occupation, Claudia joined her father in Bucharest, where she married the Bessarabian-born linguist Diomid Strungaru.\n\nThe family was in Bucharest in 1940, when the loss of Northern Transylvania plunged Romania into a political crisis. Smochină deeply admired \"Conducător\" Ion Antonescu, who was Romania's dictatorial ruler from 1941 to 1944. The Transnistrian ethnographer preserved Antonescu's image as a \"great lover of the nation\" and an \"honest man\", particularly since Antonescu promised to revisit the Bessarabian-Transnistrian issue \"with an axe\". According to his memoirs, Smochină accompanied the \"Conducător\" on all of his visits to Nazi Germany, where Antonescu reportedly imposed respect on German dictator Adolf Hitler. At that time, Romania formalized its alliance with the Axis Powers and, in summer 1941, joined Germany's sudden attack on the Soviet Union. During the early stages of war, the Romanian leader appointed Smochină his personal adviser on the issue of Transnistria. His work for that year included the brochure \"Masacrele de la Nistru\" (\"Massacres on the Dniester\"), which accused the Soviets of committing various crimes against the Romanian populace.\n\n\"Moldova Nouă\" was reestablished, with the subtitle \"Revistă de studii și cercetări transnistriene\" (\"Review of Transnistrian Studies and Research\"), publishing Smochină's German-language work \"Die Rumänen zwischen Dnjestr und Bug\" (\"The Romanians between the Dniester and the Bug\"), detailing the activities of Romanian boyars in \"New Russia\". The magazine went out of print in 1942, but was replaced with the anonymously titled \"Transnistria\", published by Smochină until 1944.\n\nHis son Alexandru N. Smochină also had contributions to the wartime press, writing for Octavian Tăslăuanu's nationalist review \"Dacia\". He graduated from Iași Law School in 1940, while also completing officer training. Following the reconquest of Bessarabia and the crossing of the Dniester, the Antonescu regime created a Transnistria Governorate, which had Gheorghe Alexianu as the chief administrator and Gherman Pântea as the Mayor of Odessa. Alexandru Smochină was taken off active duty and made Second Prefect of Transnistria's County Berezovca.\n\nHowever, Smochină Sr. found himself ill at ease with the Governorate's military and civilian administration, noting instances where Governor Alexianu and Gendarmerie commander Constantin Vasiliu derided their Bessarabian subordinates. Additionally, Smochină described the 1941 Odessa massacre, ordered by Antonescu in retaliation for a supposed Jewish plot against the Romanian command, as a grave error on the Romanians' part: as he noted, both he and Pântea had been informed that the building supposedly bombed by Jewish activists had in fact been mined by the retreating Soviets. Smochină also claimed that Ion Antonescu saw Hitler's war on the \"three occult forces\" (Jews, Freemasons and the Catholic Church) as a \"great mistake\" which could lose Germany the war. In Smochină's account, the \"Conducător\" had gone on to state: \"[Hitler] could have easily lured the Jewry on his side, and after the war he'd have been able to wrestle with it, but not in this destructive manner, that one is not humane.\"\n\nOn July 2, 1942, Smochină was made an honorary member of the Romanian Academy. He was at the time working under anthropologist Traian Herseni, involved in a large interdisciplinary effort to collect and systematize the folkloric creation of Transnistrian Romanians; his contribution was featured in Gheorghe Pavelescu's 1943 monograph \"Aspecte din spiritualitatea românilor transnistrieni: Credințe și obiceiuri\" (\"Aspects of Romanian Transnistrian Spirituality: Beliefs and Customs\"). The investigation also aimed to react against decades of Soviet anti-religious campaigns, and consciously excluded all folklore which showed Soviet-era influences. In Tiraspol, Alexandru Smochină took up a like-minded project, founding the Moldavian Circle, which disseminated propaganda and popularized Romanian historiography.\n\nFor a while, Smochină Sr. was in the Crimea, helping Romanian historian Gheorghe I. Brătianu to recover the letters addressed by his ancestor, Ion Brătianu, to Nicholas I of Russia. He maintained contacts with local Russians and helped anti-communist surgeon Pavel Chasovnikov (Ceasovnicov) in receiving Romanian citizenship rights. In his native area of Dubăsari, the scholar played host to Romanian students coming in from Bucharest and from Odessa's Romanian Cultural Institute.\n\nBy early 1944, the Axis had been dealt major defeats on the Eastern Front, and the Soviets began their menacing Dnieper–Carpathian Offensive. The change of fortunes alarmed Bessarabian and Transnistrian activists: Smochină, Halippa and Boldur joined others in a diplomatic effort to convince the Western Allies that Bessarabia needed to be part of Romania, but the military situation prevented them from ever leaving Romania. The subsequent Battle of Romania evacuated Romanian administration from Transnistria, Bessarabia, and even parts of Moldavia-proper. In August 1944, King Michael's Coup toppled Antonescu and took Romania out of the Axis. Smochină claimed to have personally been helping Antonescu in negotiating a separate peace with the Allied Powers, days before the regime fell. After Antonescu's arrest, the former Transnistria adviser lived a secluded life, and focused on writing his works of history.\n\nWhen a Romanian communist regime came into existence, Smochină's works were officially censored, and the remaining copies were tracked down and confiscated. According to Popescu Gogan, he was especially sought after for his \"Masacrele de la Nistru\". The Soviet occupiers picked up Smochină Jr., who was at the time living in Romania with his wife and daughter, and working as an attorney. According to one account, this was case of clerical error: they deported Alexandru to the Gulag only because they mistook him for his father. The story was contradicted by more detailed research into the period. It surfaced that Alexandru was interrogated for his wartime activities in Berezovca and Tiraspol. He was thus formally accused of promoting Romanianization, of spying against the Soviet state, and of causing some 964 million руб of damage to Transnistria; found guilty, he was given 25 years of hard labor, to be served in Amur Oblast.\n\nSmochină Sr. went into hiding. He used aliases and tried to make himself lost in the Carpathian Mountains, but was tracked down by the repressive apparatus. He ended up in prison, and, as he recalled, was subjected to numerous beatings. His academician's title, his pension and his right of attending the Romanian Academy Library were all removed from him (\"see List of purged members of the Romanian Academy\"). His son-in-law, Diomid Strungaru, was stripped of all positions in academia, and had to work at a clothes iron factory.\n\nBy 1955, with Destalinization in full swing, both Smochinăs were unceremoniously released. Alexandru was picked up from his place of exile, and dropped back to Romania as a released prisoner of war, with no papers on him. (Since this rendered him effectively a nonperson, he was forced to support himself by menial labor.) Smochină Sr. was kept under tight surveillance by the Securitate secret police, whose reports summarized his career in nationalist politics: \"before the year 1944 he edited and managed various publications with anti-Soviet content, drafted and printed a significant number of anti-Soviet books and generated large-scale propaganda efforts to support the Antonescu war through conferences, lectures and by other means.\" Himself a former prisoner, Pântea was being pressured into becoming a Securitate informant on Transnistrian activities in Bucharest.\n\nIn December 1959, Securitate agents intimidated Smochină from attending the funeral of former Bessarabian dignitary Grigore Cazacliu, but, during interrogations, he denied knowledge (or feigned unawareness) of a plot to enthrone Constantin Tomescu as Bessarabian Metropolitan. Securitate sources claimed that the Bessarabian-Transnistrian underground was planning a set of measures to occur after the future \"liberation of Bessarabia\", and that Smochină was discussing a return to Chișinău. According to other such reports, Smochină was fully aware of being followed around by Securitate operatives, and tried to protect his friends by avoiding contact with them.\n\nAllegedly, Nichita Smochină found understanding from Romania's new national communist leader, Nicolae Ceaușescu. He claimed that, in 1965, Ceaușescu asked him to retrieve those documents which showed Antonescu's move to a separate peace; driven by a Securitate guard to Caransebeș, where he had allegedly buried the evidence back in the late '40s, Smochină only recovered three empty crates. Ceaușescu allowed him to receive a new pension, but he was denied reintegration into the Academy, with the suggestion that such a move would dampen Romania–Russia relations. These were openly tested by the Bessarabian community in February 1967, when Halippa presented Ceaușescu's Council of State with reports on the existence of oppressed Soviet Romanians. These included a polemical note by Smochină, who condemned the Soviet-endorsed delimitation of a \"Moldovan people\" in Bessarabia, and in general the ideology of \"Moldovenism\". A month later, Halippa advanced Smochină's name among those of Bessarabians who could serve as specialists for the Romanian Communist Party's ISISP foundation of social science.\n\nSmochină was recovered by the Romanian and Soviet schools of Slavistics, commissioned for translations from Slavonic documents which were published by either the Romanian Academy or the Moscow Academy of Sciences. He was allowed back at the Academy Library, but still banned from authoring contributing original books of his own. In the 1970s, he published articles in a specialized magazine based in Thessaloniki, Greece, and donated his documents and manuscripts to the National Archives of Romania. Strungaru was also allowed back to work in universities, and Smochină moved in with him and Claudia.\n\nAt that stage, exiled Bessarabians could profit from the relative tolerance of Romania's national communist system, and began organizing themselves into advocacy groups, even establishing links in the West. Smochină himself tried to mediate between the two competing factions: one represented by Ion Păscăluță (and supported by Halippa); the other headed by Anton Crihan.\n\nSmochină died in Bucharest, on December 14, 1980. His work and life were again in public focus after the 1989 Revolution overthrew Ceaușescu. His main ethnographic research was featured in the 1996 anthology \"Românitatea transnistriană\" (\"Transnistrian Romanianness\"), published in Bucharest by Editura Semne. On July 3, 1990, he was posthumously reinstated honorary Academy member.\n\nSmochină is also remembered by the authorities of Moldova, the Bessarabian state created by the dissolution of the Soviet Union, where Alexandru Smochină was formally rehabilitated in 1996. Moldovan President Mihai Ghimpu awarded Smochină Sr. posthumous Order of Honor insignia in April 2010. Smochină is not honored in Transnistria-proper, which is ruled by a breakaway pro-Russian regime. Reportedly, Alexandru Smochină tried to visit his ancestral home in Mahala (where a \"Smokine\" family still lives), but was prevented from entering the premises by a group of local Russians.\n\nNichita Smochină's memoirs (or \"Memorii\") were published, care of Editura Academiei, in 2009 and \"Pagini din însemnările unui rebel. Academicianul Nichita Smochină\" were published, care of Editura Samia, Iași, in 2012. The editor is Vlad Galin-Corini, son-in-law of Diomid Strungaru. Commentators have described the book as a revelation, in particular for its detail on the various public figures whom the Transnistrian ethnologist had met before 1944. According to Galin-Corini, these works were also rejected by editors in Moldova, because they make brazen statements about Bessarabians who collaborated with the Soviets.\n\n"}
{"id": "51126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51126", "title": "Pierrot", "text": "Pierrot\n\nPierrot (, ; ) is a stock character of pantomime and \"commedia dell'arte\" whose origins are in the late seventeenth-century Italian troupe of players performing in Paris and known as the Comédie-Italienne; the name is a diminutive of \"Pierre\" (Peter), via the suffix \"-ot.\" His character in contemporary popular culture—in poetry, fiction, and the visual arts, as well as works for the stage, screen, and concert hall—is that of the sad clown, pining for love of Columbine, who usually breaks his heart and leaves him for Harlequin. Performing unmasked, with a whitened face, he wears a loose white blouse with large buttons and wide white pantaloons. Sometimes he appears with a frilled collaret and a hat, usually with a close-fitting crown and wide round brim, more rarely with a conical shape like a dunce's cap. But most frequently, since his reincarnation under Jean-Gaspard Deburau, he wears neither collar nor hat, only a black skullcap. The defining characteristic of Pierrot is his naïveté: he is seen as a fool, often the butt of pranks, yet nonetheless trusting.\n\nIt was a generally buffoonish Pierrot that held the European stage for the first two centuries of his history. And yet early signs of a respectful, even sympathetic attitude toward the character appeared in the plays of Jean-François Regnard and in the paintings of Antoine Watteau, an attitude that would deepen in the nineteenth century, after the Romantics claimed the figure as their own. For Jules Janin and Théophile Gautier, Pierrot was not a fool but an avatar of the post-Revolutionary People, struggling, sometimes tragically, to secure a place in the bourgeois world. And subsequent artistic/cultural movements found him equally amenable to their cause: the Decadents turned him, like themselves, into a disillusioned disciple of Schopenhauer, a foe of Woman and of callow idealism; the Symbolists saw him as a lonely fellow-sufferer, crucified upon the rood of soulful sensitivity, his only friend the distant moon; the Modernists converted him into a Whistlerian subject for canvases devoted to form and color and line. In short, Pierrot became an alter-ego of the artist, specifically of the famously alienated artist of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. His physical insularity; his poignant lapses into mutism, the legacy of the great mime Deburau; his white face and costume, suggesting not only innocence but the pallor of the dead; his often frustrated pursuit of Columbine, coupled with his never-to-be-vanquished unworldly naïveté—all conspired to lift him out of the circumscribed world of the \"commedia dell'arte\" and into the larger realm of myth. Much of that mythic quality (\"I'm Pierrot,\" said David Bowie: \"I'm Everyman\") still adheres to the \"sad clown\" of the postmodern era.\n\nHe is sometimes said to be a French variant of the sixteenth-century Italian Pedrolino, but the two types have little but their names (\"Little Pete\") and social stations in common. Both are comic servants, but Pedrolino, as a so-called first \"zanni\", often acts with cunning and daring, an engine of the plot in the scenarios where he appears. Pierrot, on the other hand, as a \"second\" \"zanni\", is a static character in his earliest incarnations, \"standing on the periphery of the action\", dispensing advice that seems to him sage, and courting—unsuccessfully—his master's young daughter, Columbine, with bashfulness and indecision.\n\nHis origins among the Italian players in France are most unambiguously traced to Molière's character, the lovelorn peasant Pierrot, in \"Don Juan, or The Stone Guest\" (1665). In 1673, probably inspired by Molière's success, the Comédie-Italienne made its own contribution to the Don Juan legend with an \"Addendum to \"The Stone Guest\"\", which included Molière's Pierrot. Thereafter the character—sometimes a peasant, but more often now an Italianate \"second\" \"zanni\"—appeared fairly regularly in the Italians’ offerings, his role always taken by one Giuseppe Giaratone (or Geratoni, fl. 1639-1697), until the troupe was banished by royal decree in 1697.\n\nAmong the French dramatists who wrote for the Italians and who gave Pierrot life on their stage were Jean Palaprat, Claude-Ignace Brugière de Barante, Antoine Houdar de la Motte, and the most sensitive of his early interpreters, Jean-François Regnard. He acquires there a very distinctive personality. He seems an anomaly among the busy social creatures that surround him; he is isolated, out of touch. Columbine laughs at his advances; his masters who are in pursuit of pretty young wives brush off his warnings to act their age. His is a solitary voice, and his estrangement, however comic, bears the pathos of the portraits—Watteau's chief among them—that one encounters in the centuries to come.\n\nAn Italian company was called back to Paris in 1716, and Pierrot was reincarnated by the actors Pierre-François Biancolelli (son of the Harlequin of the banished troupe of players) and, after Biancolelli abandoned the role, the celebrated Fabio Sticotti (1676–1741) and his son Antoine Jean (1715–1772). But the character seems to have been regarded as unimportant by this company, since he appears infrequently in its new plays.\n\nHis real life in the theater in the eighteenth century is to be found on the lesser stages of the capital, at its two great fairs, the Foires Saint-Germain and Saint-Laurent. There he appeared in the marionette theaters and in the motley entertainments—featuring song, dance, audience participation, and acrobatics—that were calculated to draw a crowd while sidestepping the regulations that ensured the Théâtre-Français a monopoly on \"regular\" dramas in Paris. Sometimes he spoke gibberish (in the so-called \"pièces à la muette\"); sometimes the audience itself sang his lines, inscribed on placards held aloft by hovering Cupids (in the \"pièces à écriteau\"). The result, far from \"regular\" drama, tended to put a strain on his character, and, as a consequence, the early Pierrot of the fairgrounds is a much less nuanced and rounded type than we find in the older repertoire. This holds true even when sophisticated playwrights, such as Alain-René Lesage and his collaborators, Dorneval and Fuzelier, began (around 1712) to contribute more \"regular\" plays to the Foires.\n\nThe broad satirical streak in Lesage often rendered him indifferent to Pierrot's character, and consequently, as the critic Vincent Barberet observes, \"Pierrot is assigned the most diverse roles . . . and sometimes the most opposed to his personality. Besides making him a valet, a roasting specialist, a chef, a hash-house cook, an adventurer, [Lesage] just as frequently dresses him up as someone else.\" In not a few of the early Foire plays, Pierrot's character is therefore \"quite badly defined.\" (For a typical farce by Lesage during these years, see his Harlequin, King of Serendib of 1713.) In the main, Pierrot's inaugural years at the Foires were rather degenerate ones.\n\nAn important factor that probably hastened his degeneration was the multiplicity of his fairground interpreters. Not only actors but also acrobats and dancers were quick to seize on his role, inadvertently reducing Pierrot to a generic type. The extent of that degeneration may be gauged by the fact that Pierrot came to be confused, apparently because of his manner and costume, with that much coarser character Gilles, as a famous portrait by Antoine Watteau attests (note title of image at right).\n\nBut in the 1720s, Pierrot at last came into his own. Antoine Galland's final volume of The \"Thousand and One Nights\" had appeared in 1717, and in the plots of these tales Lesage and his collaborators found inspiration, both exotic and (more importantly) coherent, for new plays. In \"Achmet and Almanzine\" (1728) by Lesage and Dorneval, for example, we are introduced not only to the royal society of far-off Astrakhan but also to a familiar and well-drawn servant of old—the headstrong and bungling Pierrot. It was also in the 1720s that Alexis Piron loaned his talents to the Foires, and in plays like \"Trophonius's Cave\" (1722) and \"The Golden Ass\" (1725), one meets the same engaging Pierrot of Giaratone's creation. The accomplished comic actor Jean-Baptiste Hamoche, who had worked at the Foires from 1712 to 1718, reappeared in Pierrot's role in 1721, and from that year until 1732 he \"obtained, thanks to the naturalness and truth of his acting, great applause and became the favorite actor of the public.\" But Pierrot's triumph was short-lived. \"The retirement of Hamoche in 1733\", writes Barberet, \"was fatal to Pierrot. After this date, we hardly ever see him appear again except in old plays.\"\n\nBut as he seemed to expire on the theatrical scene, he found new life in the visual arts. He, along with his fellow \"commedia\" masks, was beginning to be \"poeticized\" in the early 1700s: he was being made the subject, not only of poignant folksong (\"Au clair de la lune\", sometimes attributed to Lully), but also of the more ambitious art of Claude Gillot (\"Master André's Tomb\" [c. 1717]), of Gillot's students Watteau (\"Italian Actors\" [c. 1719]) and Nicolas Lancret (\"Italian Actors near a Fountain\" [c. 1719]), of Jean-Baptiste Oudry (\"Italian Actors in a Park\" [c. 1725]), and of Jean-Honoré Fragonard (\"A Boy as Pierrot\" [1776–1780]). This development will accelerate in the next century.\n\nBefore turning to that century, however, it should be noted that it was in this, the eighteenth, that Pierrot began to be naturalized in other countries. As early as 1673, just months after Pierrot had made his debut in the \"Addendum to \"The Stone Guest\"\", Scaramouche Tiberio Fiorilli and a troupe assembled from the Comédie-Italienne entertained Londoners with selections from their Parisian repertoire. And in 1717, Pierrot's name first appears in an English entertainment: a pantomime by John Rich entitled \"The Jealous Doctor; or, The Intriguing Dame\", in which the role was undertaken by a certain Mr. Griffin. Thereafter, until the end of the century, Pierrot appeared fairly regularly in English pantomimes (which were originally mute harlequinades but later evolved into the Christmas pantomimes of today; in the nineteenth century, the harlequinade was presented as a \"play within a play\" during the pantomime), finding his most notable interpreter in Carlo Delpini (1740–1828). His role was uncomplicated: Delpini, according to the popular theater historian, M. Willson Disher, \"kept strictly to the idea of a creature so stupid as to think that if he raised his leg level with his shoulder he could use it as a gun.\" So conceived, Pierrot was easily and naturally displaced by the native English Clown when the latter found a suitably brilliant interpreter. It did so in 1800, when \"Joey\" Grimaldi made his celebrated debut in the role.\n\nA more long-lasting development occurred in Denmark. In that same year, 1800, a troupe of Italian players led by Pasquale Casorti began giving performances in Dyrehavsbakken, then a well-known site for entertainers, hawkers, and inn-keepers. Casorti's son, Giuseppe (1749–1826), had undoubtedly been impressed by the Pierrots they had seen while touring France in the late eighteenth century, for he assumed the role and began appearing as Pierrot in his own pantomimes, which now had a formulaic structure (Cassander, father of Columbine, and Pierrot, his dim-witted servant, undertake a mad pursuit of Columbine and her rogue lover, Harlequin). The formula has proven enduring: Pierrot is still a fixture at Bakken, the oldest amusement park in the world, where he plays the nitwit talking to and entertaining children, and at nearby Tivoli Gardens, the second oldest, where the Harlequin and Columbine act is performed as a pantomime and ballet. Pierrot—as \"Pjerrot\", with his boat-like hat and scarlet grin—remains one of the parks’ chief attractions.\n\nLudwig Tieck's \"The Topsy-Turvy World\" (1798) is an early—and highly successful—example of the introduction of the \"commedia dell'arte\" characters into parodic metatheater. (Pierrot is a member of the audience watching the play.)\n\nThe penetration of Pierrot and his companions of the \"commedia\" into Spain is documented in a painting by Goya, \"Itinerant Actors\" (1793). It foreshadows the work of such Spanish successors as Picasso and Fernand Pelez, both of whom also showed strong sympathy with the lives of traveling saltimbancos.\n\nWhen, in 1762, a great fire destroyed the Foire Saint-Germain and the new Comédie-Italienne claimed the fairs’ stage-offerings (now known collectively as the Opéra-Comique) as their own, new enterprises began to attract the Parisian public, as little theaters—all but one now defunct— sprang up along the Boulevard du Temple. One of these was the Théâtre des Funambules, licensed in its early years to present only mimed and acrobatic acts. This will be the home, beginning in 1816, of Jean-Gaspard Deburau (1796–1846), the most famous Pierrot in the history of the theater, immortalized by Jean-Louis Barrault in Marcel Carné's film \"Children of Paradise\" (1945).\n\nAdopting the stage-name \"Baptiste\", Deburau, from the year 1825, became the Funambules' sole actor to play Pierrot in several types of comic pantomime—rustic, melodramatic, \"realistic\", and fantastic. He was often the servant of the heavy father (usually Cassander), his mute acting a compound of placid grace and cunning malice. His style, according to Louis Péricaud, the chronicler of the Funambules, formed \"an enormous contrast with the exuberance, the superabundance of gestures, of leaps, that ... his predecessors had employed.\" He altered the costume: freeing his long neck for comic effects, he dispensed with the frilled collaret; he substituted a skullcap for a hat, thereby keeping his expressive face unshadowed; and he greatly increased the amplitude of both blouse and trousers. Most importantly, the character of his Pierrot, as it evolved gradually through the 1820s, eventually parted company almost completely with the crude Pierrots—timid, sexless, lazy, and greedy—of the earlier pantomime.\nWith him [wrote the poet and journalist Théophile Gautier after Deburau's death], the role of Pierrot was widened, enlarged. It ended by occupying the entire piece, and, be it said with all the respect due to the memory of the most perfect actor who ever lived, by departing entirely from its origin and being denaturalized. Pierrot, under the flour and blouse of the illustrious Bohemian, assumed the airs of a master and an aplomb unsuited to his character; he gave kicks and no longer received them; Harlequin now scarcely dared brush his shoulders with his bat; Cassander would think twice before boxing his ears.\nDeburau seems to have had a predilection for \"realistic\" pantomime—a predilection that, as will later become evident here, led eventually to calls for Pierrot's expulsion from it. But the pantomime that had the greatest appeal to his public was the \"pantomime-arlequinade-féerie\", sometimes \"in the English style\" (i.e., with a prologue in which characters were transformed into the \"commedia\" types). The action unfolded in fairy-land, peopled with good and bad spirits who both advanced and impeded the plot, which was interlarded with comically violent (and often scabrous) mayhem. As in the Bakken pantomimes, that plot hinged upon Cassander's pursuit of Harlequin and Columbine—but it was complicated, in Baptiste's interpretation, by a clever and ambiguous Pierrot. Baptiste's Pierrot was both a fool and no fool; he was Cassandre's valet but no one's servant. He was an embodiment of comic contrasts, showing\nimperturbable sang-froid [again the words are Gautier's], artful foolishness and foolish finesse, brazen and naïve gluttony, blustering cowardice, skeptical credulity, scornful servility, preoccupied insouciance, indolent activity, and all those surprising contrasts that must be expressed by a wink of the eye, by a puckering of the mouth, by a knitting of the brow, by a fleeting gesture.\nAs the Gautier citations suggest, Deburau early—about 1828—caught the attention of the Romantics, and soon he was being celebrated in the reviews of Charles Nodier and Gautier, in an article by Charles Baudelaire on \"The Essence of Laughter\" (1855), and in the poetry of Théodore de Banville. A pantomime produced at the Funambules in 1828, \"The Gold Dream, or Harlequin and the Miser\", was widely thought to be the work of Nodier, and both Gautier and Banville wrote Pierrot playlets that were eventually produced on other stages—\"Posthumous Pierrot\" (1847) and \"The Kiss\" (1887), respectively.\n\nIn 1842, Deburau was inadvertently responsible for translating Pierrot into the realm of tragic myth, heralding the isolated and doomed figure—often the \"fin-de-siècle\" artist's alter-ego—of Decadent, Symbolist, and early Modernist art and literature. In that year, Gautier, drawing upon Deburau's newly acquired audacity as a Pierrot, as well as upon the Romantics’ store of Shakespearean plots and of Don-Juanesque legend, published a \"review\" of a pantomime he claimed to have seen at the Funambules.\nHe entitled it \"Shakespeare at the Funambules\", and in it he summarized and analyzed an unnamed pantomime of unusually somber events: Pierrot murders an old-clothes man for garments to court a duchess, then is skewered in turn by the sword with which he stabbed the peddler when the latter's ghost lures him into a dance at his wedding. The pantomime under \"review\" was a fabrication (though it inspired a hack to turn it into an actual pantomime, \"The Ol’ Clo's Man\" [1842], in which Deburau probably appeared—and also inspired Barrault's wonderful recreation of it in \"Children of Paradise\"). But it importantly marked a turning-point in Pierrot's career: henceforth Pierrot could bear comparisons with the serious over-reachers of high literature, like Don Juan or Macbeth; he could be a victim—even unto death—of his own cruelty and daring.\n\nWhen Gustave Courbet drew a crayon illustration for \"The Black Arm\" (1856), a pantomime by Fernand Desnoyers written for another mime, Paul Legrand (see next section), the Pierrot who quakes with fear as a black arm snakes up from the ground before him is clearly a child of the Pierrot in \"The Ol’ Clo's Man\". So, too, are Honoré Daumier's Pierrots: creatures often suffering a harrowing anguish. In 1860, Deburau was directly credited with inspiring such anguish, when, in a novella called \"Pierrot\" by Henri Rivière, the mime-protagonist blames his real-life murder of a treacherous Harlequin on Baptiste's \"sinister\" cruelties. Among the most celebrated of pantomimes in the latter part of the century would appear sensitive moon-mad souls duped into criminality—usually by love of a fickle Columbine—and so inevitably marked for destruction (Paul Margueritte's \"Pierrot, Murderer of His Wife\" [1881]; the mime Séverin's \"Poor Pierrot\" [1891]; Catulle Mendès’ \"Ol’ Clo's Man\" [1896], modeled on Gautier's \"review\").\n\nDeburau's son, Jean-Charles (or, as he preferred, \"Charles\" [1829–1873]), assumed Pierrot's blouse the year after his father's death, and he was praised for bringing Baptiste's agility to the role. (Nadar's photographs of him in various poses are some of the best to come out of his studio—if not some of the best of the era.)\n\nBut the most important Pierrot of mid-century was Charles-Dominique-Martin Legrand, known as Paul Legrand (1816–1898; see photo at top of page). In 1839, Legrand made his debut at the Funambules as the lover Leander in the pantomimes, and when he began appearing as Pierrot, in 1845, he brought a new sensibility to the character. A mime whose talents were dramatic rather than acrobatic, Legrand helped steer the pantomime away from the old fabulous and knockabout world of fairy-land and into the realm of sentimental—often tearful—realism. In this he was abetted by the novelist and journalist Champfleury, who set himself the task, in the 1840s, of writing \"realistic\" pantomimes. Among the works he produced were \"Marquis Pierrot\" (1847), which offers a plausible explanation for Pierrot's powdered face (he begins working-life as a miller's assistant), and the \"Pantomime of the Attorney\" (1865), which casts Pierrot in the prosaic role of an attorney's clerk.\n\nLegrand left the Funambules in 1853 for what was to become his chief venue, the Folies-Nouvelles, which attracted the fashionable and artistic set, unlike the Funambules’ working-class children of paradise. Such an audience was not averse to pantomimic experiment, and at mid-century \"experiment\" very often meant Realism. (The pre-\"Bovary\" Gustave Flaubert wrote a pantomime for the Folies-Nouvelles, \"Pierrot in the Seraglio\" [1855], which was never produced.) Legrand often appeared in realistic costume, his chalky face his only concession to tradition, leading some advocates of pantomime, like Gautier, to lament that he was betraying the character of the type.\n\nBut it was the Pierrot as conceived by Legrand that had the greatest influence on future mimes. Charles himself eventually capitulated: it was he who played the Pierrot of Champfleury's \"Pantomime of the Attorney\". Like Legrand, Charles's student, the Marseilles mime Louis Rouffe (1849–1885), rarely performed in Pierrot's costume, earning him the epithet \"l'Homme Blanc\" (\"The White Man\"). His successor Séverin (1863–1930) played Pierrot sentimentally, as a doom-laden soul, a figure far removed from the conception of Deburau \"père\". And one of the last great mimes of the century, Georges Wague (1875–1965), though he began his career in Pierrot's costume, ultimately dismissed Baptiste's work as puerile and embryonic, averring that it was time for Pierrot's demise in order to make way for \"characters less conventional, more human.\" Marcel Marceau's Bip seems a natural, if deliberate, outgrowth of these developments, walking, as he does, a concessionary line between the early fantastic domain of Deburau's Pierrot and the so-called realistic world.\n\n\nIn the 1880s and 1890s, the pantomime reached a kind of apogee, and Pierrot became ubiquitous. Moreover, he acquired a counterpart, Pierrette, who rivaled Columbine for his affections. (She seems to have been especially endearing to Xavier Privas, hailed in 1899 as the \"prince of songwriters\": several of his songs [\"Pierrette Is Dead\", \"Pierrette's Christmas\"] are devoted to her fortunes.) A Cercle Funambulesque was founded in 1888, and Pierrot (sometimes played by female mimes, such as Félicia Mallet) dominated its productions until its demise in 1898. Sarah Bernhardt even donned Pierrot's blouse for Jean Richepin's \"Pierrot the Murderer\" (1883).\n\nBut French mimes and actors were not the only figures responsible for Pierrot's ubiquity: the English Hanlon brothers (sometimes called the Hanlon-Lees), gymnasts and acrobats who had been schooled in the 1860s in pantomimes from Baptiste's repertoire, traveled (and dazzled) the world well into the twentieth century with their pantomimic sketches and extravaganzas featuring riotously nightmarish Pierrots. The Naturalists—Émile Zola especially, who wrote glowingly of them—were captivated by their art. Edmond de Goncourt modeled his acrobat-mimes in his \"The Zemganno Brothers\" (1879) upon them; J.-K. Huysmans (whose \"Against Nature\" [1884] would become Dorian Gray's bible) and his friend Léon Hennique wrote their pantomime \"\" (1881) after seeing them perform at the Folies Bergère. (And, in turn, Jules Laforgue wrote his pantomime \"Pierrot the Cut-Up\" [\"Pierrot fumiste\", 1882] after reading the scenario by Huysmans and Hennique.) It was in part through the enthusiasm that they excited, coupled with the Impressionists’ taste for popular entertainment, like the circus and the music-hall, as well as the new bohemianism that then reigned in artistic quarters like Montmartre (and which was celebrated by such denizens as Adolphe Willette, whose cartoons and canvases are crowded with Pierrots)—it was through all this that Pierrot achieved almost unprecedented currency and visibility towards the end of the century.\nHe invaded the visual arts—not only in the work of Willette, but also in the illustrations and posters of Jules Chéret; in the engravings of Odilon Redon (\"The Swamp Flower: A Sad Human Head\" [1885]); and in the canvases of Georges Seurat (\"Pierrot with a White Pipe [Aman-Jean]\" [1883]; \"The Painter Aman-Jean as Pierrot\" [1883]), Léon Comerre (\"Pierrot\" [1884]), Henri Rousseau (\"A Carnival Night\" [1886]), Paul Cézanne (\"Mardi gras [Pierrot and Harlequin]\" [1888]), Fernand Pelez (\"Grimaces and Miseries\" a.k.a. \"The Saltimbanques\" [1888]), Pablo Picasso (\"Pierrot and Columbine\" [1900]), Guillaume Seignac (\"Pierrot's Embrace\" [1900]), and Édouard Vuillard (\"The Black Pierrot\" [c. 1890]). The mime \"Tombre\" of Jean Richepin's novel \"Nice People\" (\"Braves Gens\" [1886]) turned him into a pathetic and alcoholic \"phantom\"; Paul Verlaine imagined him as a gormandizing naïf in \"Pantomime\" (1869), then, like Tombre, as a lightning-lit specter in \"Pierrot\" (1868, pub. 1882). Laforgue put three of the \"complaints\" of his first published volume of poems (1885) into \"Lord\" Pierrot's mouth—and dedicated his next book, \"The Imitation of Our Lady the Moon\" (1886), completely to Pierrot and his world. (Pierrots were legion among the minor, now-forgotten poets: for samples, see Willette's journal \"The Pierrot\", which appeared between 1888 and 1889, then again in 1891.) In the realm of song, Claude Debussy set both Verlaine's \"Pantomime\" and Banville's \"Pierrot\" (1842) to music in 1881 (not published until 1926)—the only precedents among works by major composers being the \"Pierrot\" section of Telemann's \"Burlesque Overture\" (1717–22), Mozart's 1783 \"Masquerade\" (in which Mozart himself took the role of Harlequin and his brother-in-law, Joseph Lange, that of Pierrot), and the \"Pierrot\" section of Robert Schumann's \"Carnival\" (1835). Even the embryonic art of the motion picture turned to Pierrot before the century was out: he appeared, not only in early celluloid shorts (Georges Méliès's \"The Nightmare\" [1896], \"The Magician\" [1898]; Alice Guy's \"Arrival of Pierrette and Pierrot\" [1900], \"Pierrette's Amorous Adventures\" [1900]; Ambroise-François Parnaland's \"Pierrot's Big Head/Pierrot's Tongue\" [1900], \"Pierrot-Drinker\" [1900]), but also in Emile Reynaud's Praxinoscope production of \"Poor Pierrot\" (1892), the first animated movie and the first hand-colored one.\n\nIn Belgium, where the Decadents and Symbolists were as numerous as their French counterparts, Félicien Rops depicted a grinning Pierrot who is witness to an unromantic backstage scene (\"Blowing Cupid's Nose\" [1881]) and James Ensor painted Pierrots (and other masks) obsessively, sometimes rendering them prostrate in the ghastly light of dawn (\"The Strange Masks\" [1892]), sometimes isolating Pierrot in their midst, his head drooping in despondency (\"Pierrot's Despair\" [1892]), sometimes augmenting his company with a smiling, stein-hefting skeleton (\"Pierrot and Skeleton in Yellow\" [1893]). Their countryman the poet Albert Giraud also identified intensely with the \"zanni\": the fifty rondels of his \"Pierrot lunaire\" (\"Moonstruck Pierrot\" [1884]) would inspire several generations of composers (see Pierrot lunaire below), and his verse-play \"Pierrot-Narcissus\" (1887) offered a definitive portrait of the solipsistic poet-dreamer. The title of choreographer Joseph Hansen's 1884 ballet, \"Macabre Pierrot\", created in collaboration with the poet Théo Hannon, summed up one of the chief strands of the character's persona for many artists of the era.\n\nIn the England of the Aesthetic Movement, Pierrot figured prominently in the drawings of Aubrey Beardsley; various writers—Henry Austin Dobson, Arthur Symons, Olive Custance—seized upon him for their poetry (\"After Watteau\" [1893], \"Pierrot in Half-Mourning\" [1896], \"Pierrot\" [1897], respectively); and Ernest Dowson wrote the verse-play \"Pierrot of the Minute\" (1897, illustrated by Beardsley). (The American poet William Theodore Peters, who commissioned Dowson's piece and would play Pierrot in its premiere, published a poetic \"Epilogue\" for it in 1896, and the composer Sir Granville Bantock would later contribute an orchestral prologue [1908].) One of the gadflies of Aestheticism, W. S. Gilbert, introduced Harlequin and Pierrot as love-struck twin brothers into \"Eyes and No Eyes, or The Art of Seeing\" (1875), for which Thomas German Reed wrote the music. And he ensured that neither character, contrary to many an Aesthetic Pierrot, would be amorously disappointed.\n\nIn a more bourgeois vein, Ethel Wright painted \"Bonjour, Pierrot!\" (a greeting to a dour clown sitting disconsolate with his dog) in 1893. And the Pierrot of popular taste also spawned a uniquely English entertainment. In 1891, the singer and banjoist Clifford Essex returned from France enamored of the Pierrots he had seen there and resolved to create a troupe of English Pierrot entertainers. Thus were born the seaside Pierrots (in conical hats and sometimes black or colored costume) who, as late as the 1950s, sang, danced, juggled, and joked on the piers of Brighton and Margate and Blackpool. Obviously inspired by these troupes were the Will Morris Pierrots, named after their Birmingham founder. They originated in the Smethwick area in the late 1890s and played to large audiences in many parks, theaters, and pubs in the Midlands. It was doubtless these popular entertainers who inspired the academic Walter Westley Russell to commit \"The Pierrots\" (c. 1900) to canvas.\n\nIt was neither the Aesthetic nor the popular Pierrot that claimed the attention of the great theater innovator Edward Gordon Craig. The appeal of the mask seems to have been the same that drew Craig to the \"Über-Marionette\": the sense that Pierrot was a symbolic embodiment of an aspect of the spiritual life—Craig invokes William Blake—and in no way a vehicle of \"blunt\" materialistic Realism. Craig's involvement with the figure was incremental. In 1897, Craig, dressed as Pierrot, gave a quasi-impromptu stage-reading of Hans Christian Andersen’s story \"What the Moon Saw\" as part of a benefit for a destitute and stranded troupe of provincial players. Two years later, in his journal \"The Page\", he published (under the pseudonym \"S.M. Fox\") a short story, \"The Last of the Pierrots\", which is a shaming attack upon the modern commercialization of Carnival. However, his most important contribution to the Pierrot canon was not to appear until after the turn of the century (see Plays, playlets, pantomimes, and revues below).\n\n\"Pierrot and Pierrette\" (1896) was a specimen of early English film from the director Birt Acres. For an account of the English mime troupe The Hanlon Brothers, see France above.\n\nIn Germany, Frank Wedekind introduced the \"femme-fatale\" of his first \"Lulu\" play, \"Earth Spirit\" (1895), in a Pierrot costume; and when the Austrian composer Alban Berg drew upon the play for his opera \"Lulu\" (unfinished; first perf. 1937), he retained the scene of Lulu's meretricious pierroting. In a similarly (and paradoxically) revealing spirit, the painter Paul Hoecker put cheeky young men into Pierrot costumes to ape their complacent burgher elders, smoking their pipes (\"Pierrots with Pipes\" [c. 1900]) and swilling their champagne (\"Waiting Woman\" [c. 1895]). (See also Pierrot lunaire below.)\n\nCanio's Pagliaccio in the famous opera (1892) by Leoncavallo is close enough to a Pierrot to deserve a mention here. Much less well-known is the musical \"mimodrama\" of Vittorio Monti, \"Noël de Pierrot\" a.k.a. \"A Clown's Christmas\" (1900), its score set to a pantomime by Fernand Beissier, one of the founders of the Cercle Funambulesque. (Monti would go on to claim his rightful fame by celebrating another spiritual outsider, much akin to Pierrot—the Gypsy. His \"Csárdás\" [c. 1904], like \"Pagliacci\", has found a secure place in the standard musical repertoire.)\n\nIn 1895, the playwright and future Nobel laureate Jacinto Benavente wrote rapturously in his journal of a performance of the Hanlon-Lees, and three years later he published his only pantomime: ‘’The Whiteness of Pierrot’’. A true fin-de-siècle mask, Pierrot paints his face black to commit robbery and murder; then, after restoring his pallor, he hides himself, terrified of his own undoing, in a snowbank—forever. Thus does he forfeit his union with Columbine (the intended beneficiary of his crimes) for a frosty marriage with the moon.\n\nPierrot and his fellow masks were late in coming to the United States, which, unlike England, Russia, and the countries of continental Europe, had had no early exposure to \"commedia dell'arte\". The Hanlon-Lees made their first U.S. appearance in 1858, and their subsequent tours, well into the twentieth century, of scores of cities throughout the country accustomed their audiences to their fantastic, acrobatic Pierrots. But the Pierrot that would leave the deepest imprint upon the American imagination was that of the French and English Decadents, a creature who quickly found his home in the so-called little magazines of the 1890s (as well as in the poster-art that they spawned). One of the earliest and most influential of these in America, \"The Chap-Book\" (1894–98), which featured a story about Pierrot by the aesthete Percival Pollard in its second number, was soon host to Beardsley-inspired Pierrots drawn by E.B. Bird and Frank Hazenplug. (The Canadian poet Bliss Carman should also be mentioned for his contribution to Pierrot's dissemination in mass-market publications like \"Harper's\".) Like most things associated with the Decadence, such exotica discombobulated the mainstream American public, which regarded the little magazines in general as \"freak periodicals\" and declared, through one of its mouthpieces, \"Munsey's Magazine\", that \"each new representative of the species is, if possible, more preposterous than the last.\" And yet the Pierrot of that species was gaining a foothold elsewhere. The composers Amy Beach and Arthur Foote devoted a section to Pierrot (as well as to Pierrette) in two ludic pieces for piano—Beach's \"Children's Carnival\" (1894) and Foote's \"Five Bagatelles\" (1893).\n\nThe fin-de-siècle world in which this Pierrot resided was clearly at odds with the reigning American Realist and Naturalist aesthetic (though such figures as Ambrose Bierce and John LaFarge were mounting serious challenges to it). It is in fact jarring to find the champion of American prose Realism, William Dean Howells, introducing \"Pastels in Prose\" (1890), a volume of French prose-poems containing a Paul Margueritte pantomime, \"The Death of Pierrot\", with words of warm praise (and even congratulations to each poet for failing “to saddle his reader with a moral”). So uncustomary was the French Aesthetic viewpoint that, when Pierrot made an appearance in \"Pierrot the Painter\" (1893), a pantomime by Alfred Thompson, set to music by the American composer Laura Sedgwick Collins, \"The New York Times\" covered it as an event, even though it was only a student production. It was found to be “pleasing” because, in part, it was “odd”. Not until the first decade of the next century, when the great (and popular) fantasist Maxfield Parrish worked his magic on the figure, would Pierrot be comfortably naturalized in America.\n\nOf course, writers from the United States living abroad—especially in Paris or London—were aberrantly susceptible to the charms of the Decadence. Such a figure was Stuart Merrill, who consorted with the French Symbolists and who compiled and translated the pieces in \"Pastels in Prose\". Another was William Theodore Peters, an acquaintance of Ernest Dowson and other members of the Rhymers' Club and a driving force behind the conception and theatrical realization of Dowson's \"Pierrot of the Minute\" (1897; see England above). Of the three books that Peters published before his death (of starvation) at the age of forty-two, his \"Posies out of Rings: And Other Conceits\" (1896) is most notable here: in it, four poems and an \"Epilogue\" for the aforementioned Dowson play are devoted to Pierrot. (From the mouth of Pierrot \"loquitur\": \"Although this pantomime of life is passing fine,/Who would be happy must not marry Columbine\".)\n\nAnother pocket of North-American sympathy with the Decadence—one manifestation of what the Latin world called \"modernismo\"—could be found in the progressive literary scene of Mexico, its parent country, Spain, having been long conversant with the \"commedia dell'arte\". In 1897, , another Decadent who, at the age of twenty-two, died even more tragically young than Peters, embarked on a series of Pierrot-themed short stories—\"Pierrot Enamored of Glory\" (1897), \"Pierrot and His Cats\" (1898), \"The Nuptials of Pierrot\" (1899), \"Pierrot's Gesture\" (1899), \"The Caprices of Pierrot\" (1900)—culminating, after the turn of the century (and in the year of Couto's death), with \"Pierrot-Gravedigger\" (1901). For the Spanish-speaking world, according to scholar Emilio Peral Vega, Couto \"expresses that first manifestation of Pierrot as an alter ego in a game of symbolic otherness ...\"\n\nInspired by the French Symbolists, especially Verlaine, Rubén Darío, the Nicaraguan poet widely acknowledged as the founder of Spanish-American literary Modernism (\"modernismo\"), placed Pierrot (\"sad poet and dreamer\") in opposition to Columbine (\"fatal woman\", the arch-materialistic \"lover of rich silk garments, golden jewelry, pearls and diamonds\") in his 1898 prose-poem \"The Eternal Adventure of Pierrot and Columbine\".\n\nIn the last year of the century, Pierrot appeared in a Russian ballet, \"Harlequin's Millions\" a.k.a. \"Harlequinade\" (1900), its libretto and choreography by Marius Petipa, its music by Riccardo Drigo, its dancers the members of St. Petersburg's Imperial Ballet. It would set the stage for the later and greater triumphs of Pierrot in the productions of the Ballets Russes.\n\nThe Pierrot bequeathed to the twentieth century had acquired a rich and wide range of personae. He was the naïve butt of practical jokes and amorous scheming (Gautier); the prankish but innocent waif (Banville, Verlaine, Willette); the narcissistic dreamer clutching at the moon, which could symbolize many things, from spiritual perfection to death (Giraud, Laforgue, Willette, Dowson); the frail, neurasthenic, often doom-ridden soul (Richepin, Beardsley); the clumsy, though ardent, lover, who wins Columbine's heart, or murders her in frustration (Margueritte); the cynical and misogynistic dandy, sometimes dressed in black (Huysmans/Hennique, Laforgue); the Christ-like victim of the martyrdom that is Art (Giraud, Willette, Ensor); the androgynous and unholy creature of corruption (Richepin, Wedekind); the madcap master of chaos (the Hanlon-Lees); the purveyor of hearty and wholesome fun (the English pier Pierrots)—and various combinations of these. Like the earlier masks of \"commedia dell'arte\", Pierrot now knew no national boundaries. Thanks to the international gregariousness of Modernism, he would soon be found everywhere.\n\nPierrot played a seminal role in the emergence of Modernism in the arts. He was a key figure in every art-form except architecture.\n\nWith respect to poetry, T. S. Eliot's \"breakthrough work\", \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\" (1915), owed its existence to the poems of Jules Laforgue, whose \"ton 'pierrot'\" informed all of Eliot's early poetry. (Laforgue, he said, \"was the first to teach me how to speak, to teach me the poetic possibilities of my own idiom of speech.\") Prufrock is a Pierrot transplanted to America. Another prominent Modernist, Wallace Stevens, was undisguised in his identification with Pierrot in his earliest poems and letters—an identification that he later complicated and refined through such avatars as Bowl (in \"Bowl, Cat and Broomstick\" [1917]), Carlos (in \"Carlos Among the Candles\" [1917]), and, most importantly, Crispin (in \"The Comedian as the Letter C\" [1923]).\n\nAs for fiction, William Faulkner began his career as a chronicler of Pierrot's amorous disappointments and existential anguish in such little-known works as his play \"The Marionettes\" (1920) and the verses of his \"Vision in Spring\" (1921), works that were an early and revealing declaration of the novelist's \"fragmented state\". (Some critics have argued that Pierrot stands behind the semi-autobiographical Nick Adams of Faulkner's fellow-Nobel laureate Ernest Hemingway, and another contends that James Joyce's Stephen Dedalus, again an avatar of his own creator, also shares the same parentage.)\n\nIn music, historians of Modernism generally place Arnold Schoenberg's 1912 song-cycle \"Pierrot lunaire\" at the very pinnacle of High-Modernist achievement. And in ballet, Igor Stravinsky's Petrushka (1911), in which the traditionally Pulcinella-like clown wears the heart of Pierrot, is often argued to have attained the same stature.\n\nStudents of Modernist painting and sculpture are familiar with Pierrot (in many different attitudes, from the ineffably sad to the ebulliently impudent) through the masterworks of his acolytes, including Pablo Picasso, Juan Gris, Georges Rouault, Salvador Dalí, Max Beckmann, August Macke, Paul Klee, Jacques Lipchitz—the list is very long (see Visual arts below).\n\nAs for the drama, Pierrot was a regular fixture in the plays of the Little Theatre Movement (Edna St. Vincent Millay's \"Aria da Capo\" [1920], Robert Emmons Rogers' \"Behind a Watteau Picture\" [1918], Blanche Jennings Thompson's \"The Dream Maker\" [1922]), which nourished the careers of such important Modernists as Eugene O'Neill, Susan Glaspell, and others.\n\nIn film, a beloved early comic hero was the Little Tramp of Charlie Chaplin, who conceived the character, in Chaplin's words, as \"a sort of Pierrot\".\n\nAs the diverse incarnations of the nineteenth-century Pierrot would predict, the hallmarks of the Modernist Pierrot are his ambiguity and complexity.\n\nOne of his earliest appearances was in Alexander Blok's \"The Puppet Show\" (1906), called by one theater-historian \"the greatest example of the harlequinade in Russia\". Vsevolod Meyerhold, who both directed the first production and took on the role, dramatically emphasized the multifacetedness of the character: according to one spectator, Meyerhold's Pierrot was \"nothing like those familiar, falsely sugary, whining Pierrots. Everything about him is sharply angular; in a hushed voice he whispers strange words of sadness; somehow he contrives to be caustic, heart-rending, gentle: all these things yet at the same time impudent.\" In her own notes to \"Aria da Capo\", Edna St. Vincent Millay makes it clear that her Pierrot is not to be played as a cardboard stock type:Pierrot sees clearly into existing evils and is rendered gaily cynical by them; he is both too indolent and too indifferent to do anything about it. Yet in several lines of the play his actual unhappiness is seen,—for instance, \"Moon's just a word to swear by\", in which he expresses his conviction that all beauty and romance are fled from the world. At the end of the play the line, \"Yes, and yet I dare say he is just as dead\", must not be said flippantly or cynically, but slowly and with much philosophic concentration on the thought.Even Chaplin's Little Tramp, conceived broadly as a comic and sentimental type, exhibits a wide range of aspirations and behaviors. Chaplin alleges to have told Mack Sennett, after first having assumed the character,You know, this fellow is many-sided, a tramp, a gentleman, a poet, a dreamer, a lonely fellow, always hopeful of romance and adventure. He would have you believe he is a scientist, a musician, a duke, a polo player. However, he is not above picking up cigarette butts or robbing a baby of its candy. And, of course, if the occasion warrants it, he will kick a lady in the rear—but only in extreme anger!\n\nIn this section, with the exception of productions by the Ballets Russes (which will be listed alphabetically by title) and of musical settings of Pierrot lunaire (which will be discussed under a separate heading), all works are identified by artist; all artists are grouped by nationality, then listed alphabetically. Multiple works by artists are listed chronologically.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the latter half of the twentieth century, Pierrot continued to appear in the art of the Modernists—or at least of the long-lived among them: Chagall, Ernst, Goleminov, Hopper, Miró, Picasso—as well as in the work of their younger followers, such as Gerard Dillon, Indrek Hirv, and Roger Redgate. And when film arrived at a pinnacle of auteurism in the 1950s and '60s, aligning it with the earlier Modernist aesthetic, some of its most celebrated directors—Bergman, Fellini, Godard—turned naturally to Pierrot.\n\nBut Pierrot's most prominent place in the late twentieth century, as well as in the early twenty-first, has been in popular, not High Modernist, art. As the entries below tend to testify, Pierrot is most visible (as in the eighteenth century) in unapologetically popular genres—in circus acts and street-mime sketches, TV programs and Japanese \"anime\", comic books and graphic novels, children's books and young adult fiction (especially fantasy and, in particular, vampire fiction), Hollywood films, and pop and rock music. He generally assumes one of three avatars: the sweet and innocent child (as in the children's books), the poignantly lovelorn and ineffectual being (as, notably, in the Jerry Cornelius novels of Michael Moorcock), or the somewhat sinister and depraved outsider (as in David Bowie's various experiments, or Rachel Caine's vampire novels, or the S&M lyrics of the English rock group Placebo).\n\nThe format of the lists that follow is the same as that of the previous section, except for the Western pop-music singers and groups. These are listed alphabetically by first name, not last (e.g., \"Stevie Wonder\", not \"Wonder, Stevie\").\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe fifty poems that were published by Albert Giraud (born Emile Albert Kayenbergh) as \"Pierrot lunaire: Rondels bergamasques\" in 1884 quickly attracted composers to set them to music, especially after they were translated, somewhat freely, into German (1892) by the poet and dramatist Otto Erich Hartleben. The best known and most important of these settings is the atonal song-cycle derived from twenty-one of the poems (in Hartleben's translation) by Arnold Schoenberg in 1912, i.e., his Opus 21: \"Dreimal sieben Gedichte aus Albert Girauds\" Pierrot lunaire (\"Thrice-Seven Poems from Albert Giraud's\" Pierrot lunaire—Schoenberg was numerologically superstitious). The impact of this work on the musical world has proven to be virtually immeasurable. It has led, among other things, to ensemble groups' appropriating Pierrot's name, such as the English Pierrot Players (1967–70), and to a number of projects—such as the Schoenberg Institute's of 1987 and the composer Roger Marsh's of 2001-2002—that have been devised to pay homage to Schoenberg and, at the same time, to extend his avant-garde reach, thereby bringing both Hartleben's and Giraud's complete cycles to full musical fruition.\n\nBut the loony Pierrot behind those cycles has invaded worlds well beyond those of composers, singers, and ensemble-performers. Theatrical groups such as the Opera Quotannis have brought Pierrot's Passion to the dramatic stage; dancers such as Glen Tetley have choreographed it; poets such as Wayne Koestenbaum have derived original inspiration from it. It has been translated into still more distant media by painters, such as Paul Klee; fiction-writers, such as Helen Stevenson; filmmakers, such as Bruce LaBruce; and graphic-novelists, such as Antoine Dodé. A passionately sinister Pierrot Lunaire has even shadowed DC Comics' Batman. The inextinguishable vibrancy of Giraud's creation is aptly honored in the title of a song by the British rock-group The Soft Machine: \"Thank You Pierrot Lunaire\" (1969).\n\nPierrot, usually in the company of Pierrette or Columbine, appears among the revelers at many carnivals of the world, most notably at the festivities of Uruguay. His name suggests kinship with the Pierrot Grenade of Trinidad and Tobago Carnival, but the latter seems to have no connection with the French clown. Pierrot Grenade is apparently descended from an earlier creature indeed called \"Pierrot\"—but this name seems to be an outsider's \"correction\" of the regional \"Pay-wo\" or \"Pié-wo\", probably a corruption of \"Pay-roi\" or \"country king,\" which describes the stature to which the figure aspired. This \"Pierrot\"—extinct by the mid-twentieth century—was richly garbed, proud of his mastery of English history and literature (Shakespeare especially), and fiercely pugnacious when encountering his likes. Pierrot Grenade, on the other hand, whose name suggests descent from the humble island of Grenada (and who seems to have evolved as a hick cousin of his namesake), dresses in ragged strips of colored cloth, sometimes adorned with cheap trinkets; he has little truck with English culture, but displays his talents (when not singing and dancing) in speechifying upon issues of the day and spelling long words in ingenious ways. A feeble fighter, he spars mainly with his tongue—formerly in Creole or French Patois, when those dialects were common currency—as he circulates through the crowds. Around the mid-twentieth century, he traveled about in pairs or larger groups, contending for supremacy among his companions, but by the dawn of the twenty-first century, he had become rather solitary, a vestige of his former gregarious self.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1797969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1797969", "title": "Pink Floyd pigs", "text": "Pink Floyd pigs\n\nInflatable flying pigs were one of the staple props of Pink Floyd's live shows. The first was a sow, but a very obviously male pig appeared in the 1980s. Pigs appeared numerous times in concerts by the band, promoting concerts and record releases, and on the cover of their 1977 album \"Animals\".\n\nThe image rights for the pigs passed to Roger Waters when he split from the rest of the group, though the pigs continued to be used by both post-Roger Waters Pink Floyd and Roger Waters in their gigs.\n\nThe original Pink Floyd pig was designed by Roger Waters and built in December 1976 by the artist Jeffrey Shaw with help of design team Hipgnosis, in preparation for shooting the cover of the \"Animals\" album. Plans were made to fly the , helium-filled balloon over Battersea Power Station on the first day's photo-shoot, with a marksman prepared to shoot the pig down if it broke free. However, the pig was not launched.\n\nOn the second day, the marksman wasn't present because no one had told him to return. The pig broke free due to a strong gust of wind on the third day, gaining a lot of press coverage. It disappeared from sight within five minutes, and was spotted by airline pilots at thirty thousand feet in the air. Flights at Heathrow Airport were cancelled as the huge inflatable pig flew through the path of aircraft, eastwards from Britain and out over the English Channel, finally landing on a rural farm in Kent that night.\n\nThe pig was recovered and repaired for the resumption of photography for the album cover, but the sky was cloudless and blue, thus \"boring\". However, the pictures of the sky from the first day were suitable; eventually, the album cover was created using a composite of photos from the first and third days.\n\nThe pig that was originally floated above Battersea Power Station was called \"Algie\".\n\nAfter the album \"Animals\" was released in 1977, Pink Floyd began their \"In the Flesh\" tour. During concerts, the pig appeared around the PA stacks in a cloud of black smoke during performances of \"Pigs (Three Different Ones)\".\n\nThe pig also appeared during each of Pink Floyd's \"The Wall\" concerts, black instead of pink, with a crossed hammers logo on its side. Waters would occasionally refer to it directly before \"Run Like Hell\" (the pig appeared during the end of the previous song, \"In the Flesh\"). A short speech in reference to either the pig or the song was given in every show, with each speech being different; this oddity is used by bootleggers to identify which date a recording of the Wall tour was made on. At the Berlin concert, it was only the head and it had fangs and red eyes.\n\nFor the 1987/88/89 tour, the band added testicles to the pig. David Gilmour has said this was an attempt to get around Roger Waters having the image rights for the pig.\n\nPink Floyd added a 'deflated' pig to Roger Waters's auction of animation art from the film \"The Wall\" at Christie's London on 21 September 1990, the lot was withdrawn before the auction started.\n\nDuring the 1994 tour, two warthog-like pigs with protruding tongues were shown at the top of the stage side's speaker towers, sometimes just deflated, sometimes dropped on the ground after \"One of These Days\". This was also during Pulse, but for the VHS, Laserdisc and DVD releases, footage of the pigs falling was edited out.\n\nThe pig made another appearance before the release of \"\", when Capitol Records flew a replica of the original pig from \"Animals\" over the Capitol Records Tower in Hollywood, California.\n\nOne damaged inflatable pig, believed to be from the 1988 Pink Floyd tour, was repaired by Nga Keith and flown again over a concert by the band The String Cheese Incident in Austin, Texas on 20 September 2003. Reportedly purchased by The String Cheese Incident manager Mike Luba from a former Pink Floyd stagehand, the 40-foot pig flew again over the Austin City Limits Music Festival audience during a cover of Pink Floyd's \"Another Brick in the Wall (Part II)\".\n\nDuring their Live 8 reunion with Waters, footage of Algie, over Battersea Power Station, was shown on a giant video screen behind the band.\n\nA replica of Algie was tethered above Battersea Power Station on 26 September 2011 to promote the Why Pink Floyd...? campaign, involving the reissue of the band's first 14 studio albums.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30011815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30011815", "title": "Post-structural feminism", "text": "Post-structural feminism\n\nPoststructural feminism is a branch of feminism that engages with insights from post-structuralist thought. Poststructural feminism emphasizes \"the contingent and discursive nature of identities\", and in particular the social construction of gendered subjectivities. An important contribution of this branch was to establish that there is no universal single category of \"woman\" or \"man.\"\n\nLike post-structuralism itself, the feminist branch is in large part a tool for literary analysis, but it also deals in psychoanalysis and socio-cultural critique, and seeks to explore relationships between language, sociology, subjectivity and power-relations as they impact upon gender in particular.\n\nPoststructural feminism also seeks to criticize the kyriarchy, while not being limited by narrow understandings of kyriarchal theory, particularly through an analysis of the pervasiveness of othering, the social exile of those people removed from the narrow concepts of normal.\n\n\nOther significant figures in poststructuralist feminism include Monique Wittig, and Julia Kristeva.\n\n\nPoststructural feminism has been criticised for its abandonment of the humanistic female subject, and for tactical naivety in its rejection of any form of female essentialism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27495405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27495405", "title": "Potpisani", "text": "Potpisani\n\nPotpisani (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Потписани\", ) is a Serbian alternative TV serial and parody of \"Otpisani\" from 2007, 2008 and 2010 by MK Art Studio.\n\nLike in origin TV series \"Otpisani\", the subject of the \"Potpisani\" is the underground partisan resistance in Belgrade during World War II.\n\nIn addition, targets of this parody are also many famous hollywood movies like Star Wars, The Matrix, Superman III, Home Alone, Charlie Chaplin`s and Bruce Lee`s films and also a lot of famous serbian movies and series like The Marathon Family, Balkan Spy, Nacionalna klasa, Vratice se rode etc.\n\nPodbradak potpisanih (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Подбрадак потписаних\", ) is continuance of \"Potpisani\", something like 2nd season, which is parodied name of\n\"Povratak otpisanih\", continuance of \"Otpisani\".\n\nThis is a list of characters who have appeared in the \"Potpisani\" film serial.\n\n"}
{"id": "2460481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2460481", "title": "Public policy doctrine", "text": "Public policy doctrine\n\nIn private international law, the public policy doctrine or (French: lit. \"public order\") concerns the body of principles that underpin the operation of legal systems in each state. This addresses the social, moral and economic values that tie a society together: values that vary in different cultures and change over time. Law regulates behaviour either to reinforce existing social expectations or to encourage constructive change, and laws are most likely to be effective when they are consistent with the most generally accepted societal norms and reflect the collective morality of the society.\n\nIn performing this function, Cappalli has suggested that the critical values of any legal system include impartiality, neutrality, certainty, equality, openness, flexibility, and growth. This assumes that a state's courts function as \"dispute resolution systems\", which avoid the violence that often otherwise accompanies private resolution of disputes. That is, citizens have to be encouraged to use the court system to resolve their disputes. The more certain and predictable the outcome of a court action, the less incentive there is to go to court where a loss is probable. But certainty must be subject to the needs of individual justice, hence the development of equity.\n\nA judge should always consider the underlying policies to determine whether a rule should be applied to a specific factual dispute. If laws are applied too strictly and mechanically, the law cannot keep pace with social innovation. Similarly, if there is an entirely new situation, a return to the policies forming the basic assumptions underpinning potentially relevant rules of law identifies the best guidelines for resolving the immediate dispute. Over time, these policies evolve, becoming more clearly defined and more deeply embedded in the legal system.\n\nThe fundamental policy in the operation of a legal system is that \"ignorantia juris non excusat\" (\"ignorance of the law is no excuse\"). It would completely undermine the enforcement of any law if the person potentially at fault was able to raise as a successful defence that he or she had not been aware of the particular law. For this reason, all the main legislatures publish their laws freely whether in hard copy or on the Internet, while others offer them for sale to the public at affordable prices. Because everyone is entitled to access the laws as they affect their personal lives, all adults are assumed responsible enough to research the law before they act. If they fail to do so, they can hardly complain if their acts prove unlawful, no matter how transiently they may be within the jurisdiction. The only exception to this rule excuses those of reduced capacity, whether as infants or through mental illness (for example, see the principle of \"doli incapax\" which raises an irrebuttable presumption in criminal law that an infant is incapable of committing a crime).\n\nUnderpinning most social, moral and religious systems is the policy of \"sanctity of life\" (also culture of life). In English criminal law, for example, duress is not allowed as a defence to murder because no threat is supposed to overcome a person's moral aversion to taking the life of another. Lord Jauncy in \"R v Gotts\" [1992] 2 AC 412 stated:\n\nIn refusal of treatment and euthanasia, commission and omission by doctors and hospital authorities resulting in the death of patients has become of increasing significance as societies debate whether the duty to preserve life outweighs the right of the autonomous patient to choose death. More contentious are those situations in which the patient is unable to make the choice personally, e.g. because in a persistent vegetative state or \"en ventre sa mere\", i.e. a child in the womb.\n\nSimilarly, in many branches of law, the doctrine of evasion prevents persons, both natural and artificial, from evading the application of obligations and liabilities already attaching to them. This represents a practical application of the policy that, as an outcome of the social contract, all persons owing allegiance to a state should be entitled to assume that everyone will receive fair and equal treatment before the law, i.e. there will be no favouritism or preferential treatment to any person by virtue of their rank or status within society. As such, this is an exception to the policy in the law of contract which usually allows the parties autonomy to enter into whatever agreement they want and which might otherwise be taken to permit the parties to exclude the normal operation of the law as between themselves (see the policy of freedom of contract).\n\nThere are policies specific to all the main branches of law. Hence, one of the policies in family law is \"parens patriae\", i.e. that the state is the default parent for all those children within its jurisdiction and that, if it is necessary to protect the interests of the child, the state will usurp the rights of the natural parents and assert its own rights as every child's legal guardian. Within the EU, the right of the child to be heard in any proceedings is a fundamental right provided in Article 24 Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The views of the child shall be considered on matters which concern him or her in accordance with age and maturity. It also provides that the child's best interest shall be the primary consideration in all actions relating to children, whether taken by public authorities or private institutions.\n\nA policy which overlaps between family law and contract law is \"favor matrimonii\" which requires that any marriage entered into with a genuine commitment should be held valid unless there is some good reason to the contrary, matching contract law, where the preference is always to give effect to the genuine expectation of the parties.\n\nThe policies adopted by states have come into being for several reasons. Some are aspects of the concept of sovereignty and reflect the essence of territoriality. Thus, public laws which either define the constitution of the state or regulate its powers can only apply within the boundaries agreed as a part of the process of \"de jure\" recognition of statehood by the international community. Other policies are aspects of the social contract, and they define and regulate the relationship between a state and those citizens who owe it allegiance. To that extent, these policies interact with (and sometimes overlap) civil rights and human rights. A number of these rights are defined at a supranational level and it will necessary for states to consider the extent to which international principles of law are to be allowed to influence the operation of law within their territories. Independently of the work of the international community to produce harmonised principles, the courts in one state may sometimes be faced with lawsuits which either seek to evade the operation of foreign laws through forum shopping or seek the enforcement of \"foreign\" laws. This is becoming increasingly common as people now move with reasonable freedom between states and international trade routinely services markets in different states. Such lawsuits will not be troublesome if the \"foreign\" law is the same as the forum law. But serious difficulties will arise if the application of the \"foreign\" law would produce a different result. These issues are resolved under the systems of law known as \"conflict of laws\".\n\nIn conflict cases, no court will apply a \"foreign\" law if the result of its application would be contrary to public policy. This is problematic because excluding the application of foreign laws would defeat the purpose of conflict of laws by giving automatic preference to the forum court's domestic law. Thus, for the most part, courts are slower to invoke public policy in cases involving a foreign element than when a domestic legal issue is involved. That said, in those countries that have adopted treaty obligations involving human rights (e.g. the states who submit to jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights) broader concepts of public policy may now apply. Thus, courts may have to consider the \"justice\" implicit in a law that allows a husband to divorce his wife, but not \"vice versa\", as an aspect of sexual discrimination. Similarly, it would be possible to question the propriety of polygamous marriages, the \"talaq\" system of divorce which is available in some Islamic states, and Jewish divorce known as the \"get\", but it is likely that the courts would be cautious to avoid any implication that they were discriminating against religions. Equally difficult are the family laws which regulate incestuous relationships and capacity. For example, it is probable that one state should not be too quick to condemn another because it allows a marriage between an uncle and a niece, or allows a marriage with a girl of 13 (e.g. as in Northern Nigeria), particularly if the parties are not proposing residence in the forum state.\n\nLess controversial is the exclusion of foreign laws that are penal or territorial because they seek to collect taxes due to another state, e.g. in English law, if foreign exchange control legislation is used as \"an instrument of oppression\", it may be denied extraterritorial enforcement (\"Re Helbert Wagg & Co Ltd\" [1956] Ch 323, 351). Similarly, otherwise valid contracts may be denied enforcement if to do so would assist an enemy of the forum state or would damage the political relationship with a friendly state. When considering questions of status, English courts have held that incapacities imposed on account of slavery (\"Somersett's Case\" [1771] 20 St Tr 1), religion (\"Re Metcalfe's Trusts\" [1864] 2 De G J & S 122), alien nationality (\"Re Helbert Wagg & Co Ltd\" [1956] Ch 323 at pp. 345/46), race (\"Oppenheimer v Cattermole\" [1976] A C 249 at pp. 265, 276/78, 282/83), divorce (\"Scott v Attorney-General\" [1886] 11 PD 128), physical incompetence (\"Re Langley's Settlement Trusts\" [1962] Ch 541 at pp. 556/57) and prodigality (\"Worms v De Valdor\" [1880] 49L J Ch. 261 and \"Re Selot's Trusts\" [1902] 1 Ch. 488) will be disregarded. Policy is also a key component to the process for the enforcement of foreign judgments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26400", "title": "Retroactive continuity", "text": "Retroactive continuity\n\nRetroactive continuity, or retcon for short, is a literary device in which established facts in a fictional work are adjusted, ignored, or contradicted by a subsequently published work which breaks continuity with the former.\n\nThere are various motivations for applying retroactive continuity, including:\n\nRetcons are used by authors to increase their creative freedom, on the assumption that the changes are unimportant to the audience compared to the new story which can be told. For instance, by retroactively setting a prior story in a parallel universe, departed popular characters can be reintroduced. More subtly, a minor plot point might be retroactively expunged (for instance, the heroine leaving home without any food), removing an obstacle to further storytelling (that she should be getting hungry).\n\nRetcons are common in pulp fiction, and especially in comic books published by long-established publishers such as DC and Marvel. The long history of popular titles and the number of writers who contribute stories can often create situations that demand clarification or revision. Retcons also often appear in manga, soap operas, serial dramas, movie sequels, cartoons, professional wrestling angles, video games, radio series, and other forms of serial fiction.\n\nThe first published use of the phrase \"retroactive continuity\" is found in theologian E. Frank Tupper's 1973 book \"The Theology of Wolfhart Pannenberg\": \"Pannenberg's conception of retroactive continuity ultimately means that history flows fundamentally from the future into the past, that the future is not basically a product of the past.\"\n\nThe first known printed use of \"retroactive continuity\" referring to the altering of history in a fictional work is in \"All-Star Squadron\" #18 (February 1983) from DC Comics. The series was set on DC's Earth-Two, an alternate universe in which Golden Age comic characters age in real time. \"All-Star Squadron\" was set during World War II on Earth-Two; as it was in the past of an alternate universe, all its events had repercussions on the contemporary continuity of the DC multiverse. Each issue changed the history of the fictional world in which it was set. In the letters column, a reader remarked that the comic \"must make you [the creators] feel at times as if you're painting yourself into a corner\", and, \"Your matching of Golden Age comics history with new plotlines has been an artistic (and I hope financial!) success.\" Writer Roy Thomas responded, \"we like to think that an enthusiastic ALL-STAR booster at one of Adam Malin's Creation Conventions in San Diego came up with the best name for it a few months back: 'Retroactive Continuity'. Has kind of a ring to it, don't you think?\" The term then took firm root in the consciousness of fans of American superhero comics.\n\nAt some point, \"retroactive continuity\" was shortened to \"retcon\", reportedly by Damian Cugley in 1988 on Usenet. Hard evidence of Cugley's abbreviation has yet to surface, though in a Usenet posting on August 18, 1990, Cugley posted a reply in which he identified himself as \"the originator of the word \"retcon\"\". Cugley used the neologism to describe a development in the comic book \"Saga of the Swamp Thing\", which reinterprets the events of the title character's origin by revealing facts that previously were not part of the narrative and were not intended by earlier writers.\n\nRetcons sometimes do not contradict previously established facts but instead fill in missing background details, usually to support current plot points. Thomas referred to \"retroactive continuity\" in this sense, as a purely additive process that did not undo any previous work; such additions were common in \"All-Star Squadron\". Kurt Busiek took a similar approach with \"Untold Tales of Spider-Man\", a series which told stories that specifically fit between issues of the original \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" series, sometimes explaining discontinuities between those earlier stories. John Byrne used a similar structure with \"\". Possibly the earliest Marvel Comics example of new stories placed between long-established stories was the 1977-8 magazine The Rampaging Hulk. In \"The Godfather Part II\", the character Frank Pentangeli is introduced as an old friend of the family though he is not referenced in the first movie; similarly Don Altobello is one of the \"old time\" Dons, though he is not mentioned until \"The Godfather Part III\". Neither addition affects the plot line of the previous films. The addition, in later seasons, of an attic to the family's home in \"Full House\" stands as a similar additive example.\n\nA similar concept is that of secret history, in which the events of a story occur within the bounds of already-established events (especially real-world ones), revealing different interpretations of the events. Some of Tim Powers' novels use secret history, such as \"Last Call\", which suggests that Bugsy Siegel's actions were due to his being a modern-day Fisher King.\n\nAlan Moore's additional information about the Swamp Thing's origins – revealing that Swamp Thing was not actually scientist Alec Holland converted into a plant, but actually a plant that had absorbed Holland's body and consciousness so that it merely thought it was Holland – did not contradict or change any of the events depicted in the character's previous appearances, but instead changed the reader's interpretation of them. Such additions and reinterpretations are very common in \"Doctor Who\".\n\nRetcons sometimes add information that seemingly contradicts previous information. This frequently takes the form of a character who was shown to have died, but is later revealed to have somehow survived. This is a common practice in horror films, which may end with the death of a monster that goes on to appear in one or more sequels. The technique is so common in superhero comics that the term \"comic book death\" has been coined for it. An early example of this type of retcon is the return of Sherlock Holmes, whom writer Arthur Conan Doyle apparently killed off in \"The Final Problem\" in 1893, only to bring him back, in large part because of readers' responses, with \"The Empty House\" in 1903.\n\nIn many of his detective novels, Rex Stout implies that his character Nero Wolfe was born in Montenegro, giving some details of his early life in the Balkans around World War I. But in 1939's \"Over My Dead Body\", Wolfe tells an FBI agent that he was born in the United States. Stout revealed the reason for the change in a letter obtained by his authorized biographer, John McAleer: \"In the original draft of \"Over My Dead Body\" Nero was a Montenegrin by birth, and it all fitted previous hints as to his background; but violent protests from \"The American Magazine\", supported by Farrar & Rinehart, caused his cradle to be transported five thousand miles.\"\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, Isaac Asimov placed the planet Trantor, capital of the Galactic Empire, at the \"center of the galaxy\", but later astronomical research indicated that the actual Galactic Center might be occupied by a supermassive black hole, making human life there impossible; in later works, Asimov adjusted his galaxy and Trantor's location in it.\n\nWhen E.E. \"Doc\" Smith wrote the original \"The Skylark of Space\", space flight was a completely theoretical proposition. However, the last book of the series, \"Skylark DuQuesne\", was written in 1963, when the United States and the Soviet Union were involved in the space race. Smith adjusted the past of his series accordingly, mentioning an American base and a Soviet one being established on the Moon prior to the protagonist Seaton discovering faster-than-light flight.\n\nAlan Moore's retcons often involve false memories. He has used this technique in the \"Marvelman\" series and \"\".\n\nRetconning can bring back characters who were initially killed off. An example of this occurs on the CBS comedy \"Two and a Half Men\". The character Charlie Harper (Charlie Sheen) was killed in a train accident in the ninth season, but in the season twelve series finale \"Of Course He's Dead\", it is revealed that Charlie survived the ordeal and has been held captive against his will for over four years. It is also common in soap operas. On \"The Bold and the Beautiful\", Taylor Forrester (Hunter Tylo) was shown to flatline and have a funeral. When Tylo reprised the character in 2005, a retcon explained that Taylor had actually gone into a coma.\n\nIn the \"Tom and Jerry\" cartoon \"Shutter Bugged Cat\", it retcons the cartoon \"Designs on Jerry\" as it uses footage from it as Tom builds a mouse trap to catch Jerry and he modifies the measurements on the blueprints to make it fail and with a safe contraption hits him and ends with Jerry filming Tom ripping up the blueprints he used for the trap and unlike the ending of the short, he is flattened and bandaged.\n\nThe TV series \"Dallas\" annulled its entire Season 9 as being just the dream of another character, Pam Ewing. Writers did this to offer a supposedly plausible reason for the major character of Bobby Ewing, who had died onscreen at the end of Season 8, to be still alive when actor Patrick Duffy wanted to return to the series. This season is sometimes referred to as the \"Dream Season\" and was referred to humorously in later TV series such as \"Family Guy\".\n\nMarvel Comics' Beyonder was originally stated to be omnipotent and the most powerful being in Marvel Universe, coming from the Beyond Realm. However, after his creator, Jim Shooter, left Marvel, writer-editor Tom DeFalco re-tooled the Beyonder, diminishing his power greatly: he was no longer omnipotent, as certain other cosmic entities were retroactively vastly upgraded to transcend the scale of infinity on which the character worked. Even after this, Beyonder was still one of the most powerful beings in Marvel, with several characters exceeding him.\n\nIn 2003, in the title of DC Comics' Teen Titans, Geoff Johns changed the entire genetic code of Kon-El (the modern version of Superboy) from a genetically altered human clone that was designed to be as Kryptonian as possible into a hybrid clone of both Superman and Lex Luthor. This change contradicted years of continuity and various facts that proved that Kon-El was human and in the process mostly ignored his unique ability of tactile telekinesis that made his powers very different from those of Superman.\n\nIn \"Boy Meets World\", both Shawn and Topanga have siblings in the first season but later in the series are retconned to be only children. The ages of the characters of \"Boy Meets World\" are altered notably where Cory is age 11 in 6th grade during season 1 to age 13 and 8th grade in season 2. This happens again in high school skipping another grade. The age gap between Cory and Eric also narrows from 4 years apart in age to 2 years apart in age.\n\nUnpopular or embarrassing stories are sometimes later ignored by publishers, and effectively erased from a series's continuity. Later stories may contradict the previous ones or explicitly establish that they never happened. An example of this can be found with the film \"Deadpool\", which expressly contradicts the events of the earlier \"\", due to that film’s depiction of the Deadpool character being extremely unpopular with audiences. An unpopular retcon may itself be retconned away, as happened with John Byrne's \"\".\n\nFilm sequels often employ temporal compression to maintain a sense of currency in each installment, despite more time having elapsed diegetically (\"in-universe\") between one installment and another than has elapsed in the real world. For example, despite the implied contemporaneity in each of the films of \"The Omen\" series, the lead character ages some 15 or 20 years across three films released over a period of less than 6 years.\n\nRetroactive continuity is similar to, but not the same as, plot inconsistencies introduced accidentally or through lack of concern for continuity; retconning, by comparison, is done deliberately. For example, the ongoing continuity contradictions on episodic TV series such as \"The Simpsons\" (in which the timeline of the family's history must be continually shifted forward to explain they are not getting any older) reflects intentionally lost continuity, not genuine retcons. However, in series with generally tight continuity, retcons are sometimes created after the fact to explain continuity errors, such was the case in \"The Flintstones\", where Wilma Flintstone was mistakenly given two separate maiden names, \"Pebble\" and \"Slaghoople\", over the course of the series. Upon discovering the discrepancy, the producers settled on \"Slaghoople\" and retconned it into later series in the franchise.\n\nRetconning is also generally distinct from replacing the actor who plays a part in an ongoing series, which is more commonly an example of \"loose continuity\" rather than retroactively changing past continuity. The different appearance of the character is either ignored (as was done with the characters of Darrin Stephens and Gladys Kravitz on the television series \"Bewitched\", or Vivian on \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\"), or explained within the series, such as with \"regeneration\" in \"Doctor Who\", or the Oracle in \"The Matrix Revolutions\". Sometimes, there are referential, inside jokes on actor changes in the show, such as with \"My Wife & Kids\" and \"Roseanne\", where there was a change of actresses playing a role (characters Claire Kyle and Becky Conner, respectively). In the latter, another character observes that children can change as they reach adulthood, remarking that when Becky came back from college (played by a new actress), they couldn't even recognize her. When the actor playing Rory was replaced in \"Mrs Brown's Boys\", the new actor first appeared on set bandaged up, supposedly following cosmetic surgery on his face. When the bandages were removed, the other characters claimed not to notice any difference.\n\nRetconning also differs from direct revision. For example, when George Lucas re-edited the original \"Star Wars\" trilogy, he made changes directly to the source material, rather than introducing new source material that contradicted the contents of previous material.\n\nRetconning is not the same as a reboot or reimagining which completely discards the original timeline, such as in \"Battlestar Galactica\". However, there have been partial reboots of franchises where the core of the franchise is still canonical but the expanded universe is relegated to a secondary continuity which, while not completely invalid, is subject to revision and critical review. \"Robotech\" is an example of this. With the release of the 2006 sequel film \"Robotech The Shadow Chronicles\", Harmony Gold established that only the original 1985 animated series and the 2006 sequel film are considered canonical relegating the aborted \"\", comics, and novels from the 80s and 90s to secondary continuity and, if elements are used from them, they are subject to selective revision and updating as appropriate to mesh with future canonical productions and to prevent conflict with the original animated series. While the Jack McKinney \"Robotech\" novel \"End of the Circle\" is evidently no longer canon, the prequel comic \"\" establishes that the general storyline of The Sentinels still occurred in some fashion, but various elements, including the timeline, specific unfolding of events, and some characterizations are different from what was previously depicted in earlier comics and novels. In such cases, the franchise producer may state that there is no intention to address the changes through remakes or direct retellings of such stories. It is essentially left to the viewer's imagination as to how differently the revised story unfolded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "889708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889708", "title": "Rhotacism (sound change)", "text": "Rhotacism (sound change)\n\nRhotacism () or rhotacization is a sound change that converts one consonant (usually a voiced alveolar consonant: , , , or ) to a rhotic consonant in a certain environment. The most common may be of to .\n\nThe term comes from the Greek letter \"rho\", denoting \"r\".\n\nThe southern, Tosk dialects, the base of Standard Albanian, changed to , but the northern, Gheg dialects did not:\n\nIn Aramaic, Proto-Semitic \"n\" changed to \"r\" in a few words:\n\n\nAquitanian *\"l\" changed to the tapped \"r\" between vowels in Basque. It can be observed in words borrowed from Latin; for example, Latin \"caelum\" (meaning \"sky, heaven\") became \"zeru\" in Basque (\"caelum\" > \"celu\" > \"zeru\"; compare \"cielo\" in Spanish). The original \"l\" is preserved in the Souletin dialect: \"caelum\" > \"celu\" > \"zelü\".\n\nWestern dialects of Finnish are characterised by the pronunciation or of the consonant written \"d\" in Standard Finnish \"kahden kesken- kahren kesken\" (two together = one on one). The reconstructed older pronunciation is .\n\nIn Manx, Scottish Gaelic and some dialects of Irish, a cluster developed into , often with nasalization of the following vowel, as in Scottish Gaelic ('hill').\n\nAll surviving Germanic languages, which are members of the North and West Germanic families, changed to , implying a more approximant-like rhotic consonant in Proto-Germanic. Some languages later changed all forms to \"r\", but Gothic, an extinct East Germanic language, did not undergo rhotacism.\n\nNote that the Modern German forms have levelled the rhotic consonant to forms that did not originally have it.\n\nIntervocalic and are commonly lenited to in most of North American and Australian English, as well as in some accents of Irish English and English English, a process known as tapping or less accurately as flapping: \"got a lot of\" becomes . Contrast is usually maintained with , and the [ɾ] sound is rarely perceived as /r/.\n\nIn Central German dialects, especially Rhine Franconian and Hessian, is frequently realised as in intervocalic position. The change also occurs in Mecklenburg dialects. Compare \"Borrem\" (Central Hessian) and \"Boden\" (Standard German).\n\n\nIt reflects a highly regular change in pre-Classical Latin. Intervocalic \"s\" in Old Latin, which is assumed to have been pronounced ), invariably became \"r\". Intervocalic \"s\" in Classical Latin suggests either borrowing (\"rōsa\"), or reduction of an earlier \"ss\" after a long vowel or a diphthong (\"pausa\" < \"paussa\", \"vīsum\" < \"*vīssum\" < \"*weid-tom\"). The \"s\" was preserved initially (\"septum\") and finally and in consonant clusters.\n\nThe English word \"honour\" or \"honor\" is derived from Anglo-Norman \"honour\", which, in turn, was derived from Late Latin \"honor\", earlier \"honos\", which became \"honor\" by analogy with the oblique stem of \"honor-\": \"honoris\" genitive).\n\nThe \"d\" and the \"l\" changed to \"r\" before another \"d\" or \"l\" so that the same consonant would not appear twice in a row (dissimilation):\n\nThe phenomenon was noted by the Romans themselves:\nIn Neapolitan, rhotacism affects words etymologically containing intervocalic or initial .\n\n\nIn Galician-Portuguese, rhotacism occurred from to , mainly in consonant clusters ending in , as in the words \"obrigado\", \"thank you\" (originarily from \"obliged [in honorably serving my Sir]\"); \"praia\", \"beach\"; \"prato\", \"plate\" or \"dish\"; \"branco\", \"white\"; \"prazer\", \"pleasure\"; \"praça\", \"square\". Compare Spanish \"obligado\" (obliged), \"playa, plato, blanco, placer, plaza\" from Latin \"obligatus, plagia, platus, blancus\" (Germanic origin), \"placere\" (verb), \"platea\".\n\nIn contemporary Brazilian Portuguese, rhotacism of in the syllable coda is characteristic of the Caipira dialect; further rhotacism in the nationwide vernacular includes \"planta\", \"plant\", as , \"lava\", \"lava\", as (then homophonous with \"larva\", worm/maggot), \"lagarto\", \"lizard\", as (in dialects with guttural coda \"r\" instead of a tap) and \"advogado\", \"lawyer\", as . The nonstandard patterns are largely marginalised, as rhotacism is regarded as a sign of speech-language pathology or illiteracy.\n\nRhotacism, in Romanesco, shifts \"l\" to \"r\" before a consonant, like certain Andalusian dialects of Spanish. Thus, Latin \"altus\" (tall) is \"alto\" in Italian but becomes \"arto\" in Romanesco. Rhotacism used to happen when \"l\" was preceded by a consonant, as in the word \"ingrese\" (English), but modern speech has lost that characteristic.\n\nAnother change related to \"r\" was the shortening of the geminated \"rr\", which is not rhotacism. Italian words \"errore\", \"guerra\" and \"marrone\" \"error\", \"war\", \"brown\" become \"erore\", \"guera\" and \"marone\".\n\nRomanian rhotacism shifts intervocalic \"l\" to \"r\" and \"n\" to \"r\".\n\nThus, Latin \"caelum\" (meaning 'heaven' or 'sky') became Romanian \"cer\", Latin \"fenestra\" (meaning 'window') becomes Romanian \"fereastră\" and Latin \"felicitas\" (meaning 'happiness') Romanian \"fericire\".\n\nSome northern Romanian dialects and Istro-Romanian also changed all intervocalic to in words of Latin origin. For example, Latin \"bonus\" became Istro-Romanian \"bur\", as compared to standard Daco-Romanian \"bun\".\n\nRhotacism (\"mola\" > \"mora\", \"filum\" > \"fir\", \"sal\" > \"sare\") exists in Gallo-Italic as well, in Western Lombard, Alpine Lombard and Ligurian.\n\nRhotacism is particularly widespread in the island of Sicily, but almost completely absent in the Sicilian varieties of the mainland (Calabrese and Salentino). It affects intervocalic and initial /d/: \"cura\" from latin \n\"caudam\", \"peri\" from latin \"pedem\", \"reci\" from latin \"decem\".\n\nIn Andalusian Spanish, particularly in Seville, at the end of a syllable before another consonant, \"l\" is replaced with \"r\": \"Huerva\" for \"Huelva\". The reverse occurs in Caribbean varieties: \"Puelto Rico\" instead of \"Puerto Rico\".\n\nIn Sanskrit, words ending in \"-s\" other than \"-as\" become \"-r\" in sandhi with a voiced consonant:\n\n\nIt is not properly rhotacism as \"r\" and \"s\" are then simply allophones.\n\nIn some South Slavic languages, rhotacism occasionally changes a voiced palatal fricative to a dental or alveolar tap or trill if it is between vowels:\n\n\nThe beginning of the change is attested in the Freising manuscripts, the 10th century AD, which shows both the archaism (\"ise\" 'which' < *\"jь-že\") and the innovation (\"tere\" 'also' < *\"te-že\"). It is also found in individual lexical items in Bulgarian dialects, \"дорде\" 'until' (< *\"do-že-dĕ\") and Macedonian, \"сеѓере\" (archaic: 'always'). However, the results of the sound change have largely been reversed by lexical replacement in dialects in Serbia and Bosnia from the 14th century.\n\nDialects in Croatia and Slovenia have preserved more of the lexical items with the change and even extended grammatical markers in \"-r\" from many sources that formally merged with the rhotic forms that arose from the sound change: Slovene dialect \"nocor\" 'tonight' (< *\"not'ь-sь-ǫ-\" + \"-r-\") on the model of \"večer\" 'evening' (< *\"večerъ\"). The reversal of the change is evident in dialects in Serbia where the \"-r-\" formant is systematically removed: Serbian \"veče\" 'evening'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58735935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58735935", "title": "Saint Jerome in Penitence (Titian, 1531)", "text": "Saint Jerome in Penitence (Titian, 1531)\n\nSaint Jerome in Penitence or Penitent Saint Jerome is a c.1531 oil on canvas painting Titian, now in the Louvre in Paris. It is first mentioned in the collections of Louis XIV and may have come from the Gonzaga collection, perhaps making it the \"Saint Jerome\" mentioned in Federico Gonzaga's correspondence, which can be dated to 1531. A second theory argues that the work was intended for Federico's mother Isabella d'Este, who wanted a nocturnal scene.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51460271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51460271", "title": "Speaker types", "text": "Speaker types\n\nWithin the linguistic study of endangered languages, sociolinguists distinguish between different speaker types based on the type of competence they have acquired of the endangered language. Often in situations where a community is gradually shifting away from an endangered language to a majority language, not all speakers acquire full linguistic competence, but have varying degrees and types of competence depending on the kind of exposure to the minority language they experienced in their upbringing. Originally the relevance of speaker types in situations of language shift was noted by Nancy Dorian who coined the term semi-speaker to refer to those speakers of Sutherland Gaelic who were predominantly English-speaking and whose Gaelic competence was limited and showed considerable influence from English. Later studies added additional speaker types such as rememberers (who remember some words and phrases but have little or no grammatical competence and do not actively speak the language), passive speakers (who have nearly full comprehension competence but do not actively speak the language). In the context of language revitalization, new speakers who have learned the endangered language as a second language are sometimes distinguished.\n\nIn contexts of language acquisition and language teaching studies sometimes there is a distinction between native speakers and second language speakers, depending on whether language was learned as a language of primary socialisation or learned after already having fully acquired a first language. In contexts of multilingualism a bilingual speaker may also be described as a heritage speaker (A heritage language actually refers to a language whose speakers have moved from the original area where the language was spoken: e.g. Welsh is a heritage language in Patagonia, but not in Wales) if they have not been as fully exposed to one of their languages, leading to a diminished degree of confidence in themselves as speakers, and sometimes also limited competence in one of their languages.\n\nA rememberer is a person who knows individual words or phrases (sometimes entire texts) but cannot use the target language productively. Such persons are of particular interest when studying any endangered or dying language. Rememberers are contrasted with fluent or full speakers, who have a good command of the language, and semi-speakers, who have a partial command of it. The distinction between fluent speakers and rememberers is important in fieldwork, but accurately determining where a member of a language community falls on the speaker-rememberer continuum can be challenging.\n\nA passive speaker (also referred to as a \"receptive bilingual\" or \"passive bilingual\") is someone who has had enough exposure to a language in childhood to have a native-like comprehension of it, but has little or no active command of it. Such speakers are especially common in language shift communities where speakers of a declining language do not acquire active competence. Around 10% of the Ainu people, for example, who speak the language are considered passive speakers. Passive speakers are often targeted in language revival efforts to increase the number of speakers of a language quickly, as they are likely to gain active and near-native speaking skills more quickly than those with no knowledge of the language. They are also found in areas where people grow up hearing another language outside their family with no formal education.\n\nA semi-speaker is a speaker who has acquired a partial linguistic competence in a given language, but who does not generally use it regularly in conversation. Their speech can contain erroneous forms. Semi-speakers are often among the most motivated and engaged participants in language revitalization projects. As languages become obsolete and speech communities shift to other languages, they are spoken less frequently and in fewer social domains. Many speakers learn the language partially, often in a simplified way, with significant influence from the majority language. They are sometimes referred to as \"semi-speakers\", \"quasi-speakers\" or \"rememberers\". The word semi-speaker was introduced by linguist Nancy Dorian in describing the last speakers of the East Sutherland dialect of Scottish Gaelic. When semi-speakers form a significant part of the speech, community language contraction often ensues, as the linguistic norms are accommodated to the competences of the speakers.\n\nA terminal speaker is the last speaker of a language. A terminal speaker may still be alive, or may have been the last person speaking what is now an extinct language. In the process of language death, the remaining speakers begin to lose some of the vocabulary and grammar of the language, so when there is only a last terminal speaker, the person will not remember a complete form of the language as it had been spoken by a larger community using it in all language domains. Being a terminal speaker means that the person is bilingual, remembering their heritage language but interacting with their community in another language. The importance of this distinction is seen in the story of Dolly Pentreath of Cornwall. She is popularly named as the last fluent, first-language speaker of Cornish, but there were others who still spoke it for many years, though possibly incompletely. Terminal speakers are sometimes found by linguists doing language documentation on a language before it dies. A clear example of a terminal speaker being contacted by a linguist is the case of Abegaz, the last speaker of the Mesmes language in Ethiopia. He lived in an isolated hilly area and was about 80 years old when he was contacted by a team of sociolinguistic language surveyors; he has died since that contact. Ned Maddrell was the last speaker of the Manx language, having died in 1974. In 2008, Doris McLemore was reported to be the last speaker of the Wichita language as she worked with a team of linguists to document the language before it died completely. Many more terminal speakers are listed under the Wikipedia category Last known speakers of a language.\n"}
{"id": "2590370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2590370", "title": "Taking the piss", "text": "Taking the piss\n\nTaking the piss is a Commonwealth term meaning to take liberties at the expense of others, or to be joking, or to be unreasonable. It is a shortening of the idiom taking the piss out of, which is an expression meaning to mock, tease, joke, ridicule, or scoff. It is not to be confused with \"taking a piss\", which refers to the act of urinating. Taking the Mickey (Mickey Bliss, Cockney rhyming slang), taking the Mick or taking the Michael is another term for making fun of someone. These terms are most widely used in the United Kingdom, Ireland, South Africa, New Zealand and Australia.\n\nThe term sometimes refers to a form of mockery in which the mocker exaggerates the other person's characteristics; pretending to take on his or her attitudes, etc., for the purpose of comedic effect at the expense of another. This would be described as \"taking the piss\" out of that person, or \"a piss-take\". It may be also be used to refer to a ruse whereby a person is led to believe a plainly unbelievable fact for the purpose of ridicule of the subject, e.g. \"Are you being serious?\" \"No, I'm just taking the piss.\"\n\nThe phrase is in common usage throughout British society, employed by headline writers in broadsheet gazettes and tabloids as well as colloquially. It is also used in English speaking countries such as Australia.\n\nIn colloquial usage, \"taking the piss\" is also used to refer to someone or something that makes a claim which is not in line with a recognised agreement e.g. an invoice that is double the quoted price with no explanation for the added charge could be said to \"take the piss\", or likewise if something consistently misses a deadline.\n\nThe term can also mean to take unfair advantage. For example, if someone has a food buffet and one guest clearly takes more than their expected share. It can also relate to an abuse of trust, such as \"You can use my 'phone, but don't take the piss!\", i.e. do not abuse my offer of assistance by making lengthy calls that will cost me a lot of money. Equally, a wilfully unproductive employee could be described as \"taking the piss\" for accepting a wage while knowingly failing to deliver on their obligation, or an employer could be accused of \"taking the piss\" for making unreasonable requests of their employees, e.g. expecting them to do unpaid overtime.\n\n\"Take the piss\" may be a reference to a related (and dated) idiomatic expression, \"piss-proud\", which is a vulgar pun referring to the morning erections which happen when a man awakens at the end of a dream cycle (each about 90 minutes in length throughout the night) or may be caused by a full bladder pressing upon nerves that help affect erection. This could be considered a 'false' erection, as its origin is physiological not sexual, so in a metaphoric sense, then, someone who is \"piss-proud\" would suffer from false pride, and \"taking the piss out of them\" refers to deflating this false pride, through disparagement or mockery. As knowledge of the expression's metaphoric origin became lost on users, \"taking the piss out of\" came to be synonymous with disparagement or mockery itself, with less regard to the pride of the subject.\n\n\"Take the mickey\" may be an abbreviated form of the Cockney rhyming slang \"take the Mickey Bliss\", a euphemism for \"take the piss.\" It has also been suggested that \"mickey\" is a contraction of \"micturition,\" in which case \"take the micturition\" would be a synonymous euphemism for \"take the piss.\" The phrase has been noted since the 1930s.\n\nOne theory is that during the age of the canals in Britain, urine would be brought up the canals to the wool mills in Northern England (particularly to Yorkshire), as urine was used in the process of fixing dye to wool. This was particularly the case when dyeing items blue with indigo or more traditionally with woad, before synthetic dyes were invented or made commercially available. Being in the business of transporting urine was much less lucrative than transporting wine, so when the boatmen were questioned what they were carrying they would lie and say \"I'm taking wine\" and the response would be \"No, you're taking the piss\" to express disbelief.\n"}
{"id": "376118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376118", "title": "Tango music", "text": "Tango music\n\nTango is a style of music in or time that originated among European immigrant populations of Argentina and Uruguay (collectively, the \"Rioplatenses\"). It is traditionally played on a solo guitar, guitar duo, or an ensemble, known as the \"orquesta típica\", which includes at least two violins, flute, piano, double bass, and at least two bandoneóns. Sometimes guitars and a clarinet join the ensemble. Tango may be purely instrumental or may include a vocalist. Tango music and dance have become popular throughout the world.\n\nEven though present forms developed in Argentina and Uruguay from the mid 19th century, there are records of 19th and early 20th century Tango styles in Cuba and Spain, while there is a flamenco Tangos dance that may share a common ancestor in a minuet-style European dance. All sources stress the influence of the African communities and their rhythms, while the instruments and techniques brought in by European immigrants in the 20th century played a major role in its final definition, relating it to the Salon music styles to which Tango would contribute back at a later stage.\n\nAngel Villoldo's 1903 tango El Choclo was first recorded no later than 1906 in Philadelphia. Villoldo himself recorded it in Paris (possibly in April, 1908, with the Orchestre Tzigane du Restaurant du Rat Mort). Villoldo had to record in Paris because in Argentina at the time there was no recording studio.\n\nEarly tango was played by immigrants in Buenos Aires then later in Montevideo. The first generation of tango players was called \"Guardia Vieja\" (the Old Guard). It took time to move into wider circles: in the early 20th century it was the favorite music of thugs and gangsters who visited the brothels, in a city with 100,000 more men than women (in 1914). The complex dances that arose from such rich music reflects how the men would practice the dance in groups, demonstrating male sexuality and causing a blending of emotion and aggressiveness. The music was played on portable instruments: flute, guitar and violin trios, with bandoneón arriving at the end of the 19th century. The \"organito\", a portable player-organ, broadened the popularity of certain songs. Eduardo Arolas was the major instrument of the bandoneón's popularization, with Vicente Greco soon standardizing the tango sextet as consisting of piano, double bass, two violins and two bandoneóns.\n\nLike many forms of popular music, tango was associated with the underclass, and attempts were made to restrict its influence. In spite of the scorn, some, like writer Ricardo Güiraldes, were fans. Güiraldes played a part in the international popularization of tango, which had conquered the world by the end of World War I, and wrote a poem (\"Tango\") which describes the music as the \"all-absorbing love of a tyrant, jealously guarding his dominion, over women who have surrendered submissively, like obedient beasts\".\n\nOne song that would become the most widely known of all tango melodies also dates from this time. The first two sections of \"La Cumparsita\" were composed as a march instrumental in 1916 by teen-aged Gerardo Matos Rodríguez of Uruguay.\n\nBesides the global influences mentioned above, early Tango was locally influenced by Payada, the Milonga from Argentine and Uruguay Pampas, and Uruguayan Candombe. In Argentina there was Milonga \"from the country\" since the mid eighteenth century. The first \"payador\" remembered is Santos Vega. The origins of Milonga seem to be in the Pampa with strong African influences, especially though the local Candombe (which would be related to its contemporary Candombe in Buenos Aires and Montevideo). It is believed that this candombe existed and was practised in Argentina since the first slaves were brought into the country.\n\nAlthough the word \"tango\" to describe a music/dance style had been printed as early as 1823 in Havana, Cuba, the first Argentinian written reference is from an 1866 newspaper, that quotes the song \"La Coqueta\" (an Argentine tango). In 1876 a tango-candombe called \"El Merenguengué\" became very popular, after its success in the Afro-Argentines carnival held in February of that year. It is played with harp, violin and flute in addition to the Afro-Argentine Candombe drums (\"Llamador\" and \"Repicador\"). This has been seriously considered as one of the strong points of departure for the birth and development of Tango.\n\nThe first \"group\" of tango, was composed of two Afro-Argentines, \"the black\" Casimiro Alcorta (violin) and \"the mulatto\" Sinforoso (clarinet). They did small concerts in Buenos Aires since the early 1870s until the early 1890s. \"The black Casimiro\" is author of \"Entrada Prohibida\" (\"Entry Forbidden\"), then signed by the brothers Teisseire, and \"la yapa\"; in turn, is credited with the tango \"Concha sucia\", which was later amended and signed by F. Canaro as \"Cara sucia\" (\"dirty face\"). It must be said, though that this duo was the author and performer of many of the early tangos now listed as \"anonymous\", since at that time were not used to signing works.\n\nBefore the 1900s, the following tangos were being played: \"El queco\" (anonymous, attributed to clarinetist Lino Galeano in 1885), \"Señora casera\" (anonymous 1880), \"Andate a la recoleta\" (anonymous 1880), \"El Porteñito\" (by the Spaniard Gabriel Diez in 1880), \"Tango Nº1\" (Jose Machado - 1883), \"Dame la lata\" (Juan Perez, 1888), \"Que polvo con tanto viento\" (anonymous 1890), \"No me tires con la tapa de la olla\" (A.A. 1893), \"El Talar\" (Prudencio Aragon – 1895). One of the first women to write tango scores was Eloísa D’Herbil. She wrote such pieces as \"Y a mí qué\" (What do I care), \"Che no calotiés!\" (Hey, no stealing) and others, between 1872 and 1885.\n\nThe first recorded musical score (though no author) is \"La Canguela\" (1889) and is in the Museum of the City Score Rosario. On the other hand, the first copyrighted tango score is \"El entrerriano\", released in 1896 and printed in 1898 – by Rosendo Mendizabal, an Afro-Argentine. As for the transition between the old \"Tango criollo\" (Milonga from the Pampas, evolved with touches of Afro-Argentine Candombe, and some of Habanera), and the Tango of the Old Guard, there are the next songs: Ángel Villoldo (\"El choclo\", 1903) (\"El Pimpolla\", 1904), (\"La Vida del Carretero\", 1905) y (\"El Negro Alegre\", 1907), de Gabino Ezeiza (\"El Tango Patagones\", 1905), y de Higinio Cazón (\"El Taita\", 1905). Moreover, the first tango recorded by an orchestra was \"Don Juan\", whose author is Ernesto Ponzio. It was recorded by the orchestra of Vicente Greco.\n\nTango soon began to gain popularity in Europe, beginning in France. Superstar Carlos Gardel soon became a sex symbol who brought tango to new audiences, especially in the United States, due to his sensual depictions of the dance on film. In the 1920s, tango moved out of the lower-class brothels and became a more respectable form of music and dance. Bandleaders like Roberto Firpo and Francisco Canaro dropped the flute and added a double bass in its place. Lyrics were still typically macho, blaming women for countless heartaches, and the dance moves were still sexual and aggressive.\n\nCarlos Gardel became especially associated with the transition from a lower-class \"gangster\" music to a respectable middle-class dance. He helped develop tango-canción in the 1920s and became one of the most popular tango artists of all time. He was also one of the precursors of the Golden Age of tango.\n\nGardel's death was followed by a division into movements within tango. Evolutionists like Aníbal Troilo and Carlos di Sarli were opposed to traditionalists like Rodolfo Biagi and Juan d'Arienzo.\n\nThe \"Golden Age\" of tango music and dance is generally agreed to have been the period from about 1935 to 1952, roughly contemporaneous with the big band era in the United States. Tango was performed by orquestas típicas, bands often including over a dozen performers.\n\nSome of the many popular and influential orchestras included the orchestras of Mariano Mores, Juan d'Arienzo, Francisco Canaro, and Aníbal Troilo. D'Arienzo was called the \"Rey del compás\" or \"King of the beat\" for the insistent, driving rhythm which can be heard on many of his recordings. \"El flete\" is an excellent example of D'Arienzo's approach. Canaro's early milongas are generally the slowest and easiest to dance to; and for that reason, they are the most frequently played at tango dances (milongas); \"Milonga Sentimental\" is a classic example.\n\nBeginning in the Golden Age and continuing afterwards, the orchestras of Osvaldo Pugliese and Carlos di Sarli made many recordings. Di Sarli had a lush, grandiose sound, and emphasized strings and piano over the bandoneón, which is heard in \"A la gran muñeca\" and \"Bahía Blanca\" (the name of his home town).\n\nPugliese's first recordings were not too different from those of other dance orchestras, but he developed a complex, rich, and sometimes discordant sound, which is heard in his signature pieces, \"Gallo ciego\", \"Emancipación\", and \"La yumba\". Pugliese's later music was played for an audience and not intended for dancing, although it is often used for stage choreography for its dramatic potential, and sometimes played late at night at milongas.\n\nList of tango bandleaders during the Golden Age of tango:\n\nEventually tango transcended its Latin boundaries, as European bands adopted it into their dance repertoires. Non-traditional instruments were often added, such as accordion (in place of bandoneon), saxophone, clarinet, ukulele, mandolin, electric organ, etc., as well as lyrics in non-Spanish languages. European tango became a mainstream worldwide dance and popular music style, alongside with foxtrot, slow waltz, and rumba. It somewhat diverged from its Argentinian origin and developed characteristic European styles. Famous European band leaders who adopted tango included, to name a few, , Marek Weber, Oskar Joost, , Jose Lucchesi, , , Paul Godwin, Alexander Tsfasman, as well as famous singers Leo Monosson, Zarah Leander, Rudi Schuricke, Tino Rossi, , Mieczysław Fogg, Pyotr Leshchenko, and others. The popularity of European tango precipitously declined with the advent of rock-n-roll in the 50s–60s.\n\nThe later age of tango has been dominated by Ástor Piazzolla, whose \"Adiós nonino\" became the most influential work of tango music since Carlos Gardel's \"El día que me quieras\" was released in 1935. During the 1950s, Piazzolla consciously tried to create a more academic form with new sounds breaking the classic forms of tango, drawing the derision of purists and old-time performers. The 1970s saw Buenos Aires developing a fusion of jazz and tango. Litto Nebbia and Siglo XX were especially popular within this movement. In the 1970s and 1980s, the vocal octet Buenos Aires 8 recorded classic tangos in elaborate arrangements, with complex harmonies and jazz influence, and also recorded an album with compositions by Piazzolla.\n\nThe so-called post-Piazzolla generation (1980–) includes musicians such as Dino Saluzzi, Rodolfo Mederos, Gustavo Beytelmann and Juan Jose Mosalini. Piazzolla and his followers developed \"nuevo tango\", a musical genre that incorporated jazz and classical influences into a more experimental style.\n\nIn the late 1990s, composer and pianist Fernando Otero continued to add elements to the innovation process which had started decades ago, expanding the orchestration and form while including improvisation and atonal aspects in his work.\n\nTango development did not stop with tango nuevo. 21st-century tango is referred to as neotango. These recent trends can be described as \"electro tango\" or \"tango fusion\", where the electronic influences range from subtle to dominant.\n\nTanghetto and Carlos Libedinsky are good examples of the subtle use of electronic elements. The music still has its tango feeling, the complex rhythmic and melodious entanglement that makes tango so unique. Gotan Project is a group that formed in 1999 in Paris, consisting of musicians Philippe Cohen Solal, Eduardo Makaroff and Christoph H Muller. Their releases include \"Vuelvo al Sur/El capitalismo foráneo\" (2000), \"La Revancha del Tango\" (2001), \"Inspiración Espiración\" (2004), and \"Lunático\" (2006). Their sound features electronic elements like samples, beats and sounds on top of a tango groove. Some dancers enjoy dancing to this music, although many traditional dancers regard it as a definite break in style and tradition.\n\nBajofondo Tango Club is another example of electro-tango. Further examples can be found on the CDs \"Tango?\", Hybrid Tango, Tangophobia Vol. 1, \"Tango Crash\" (with a major jazz influence), \"Latin Tango\" by Rodrigo Favela (featuring classic and modern elements), \"NuTango\". \"Tango Fusion Club Vol. 1\" by the creator of the milonga called \"Tango Fusion Club\" in Munich, Germany, \"Felino\" by the Norwegian group Electrocutango and \"Electronic Tango\", a compilation CD. In 2004, the music label World Music Network released a collection under the title \"The Rough Guide to Tango Nuevo\".\n\nIn the second half of the nineteen-nineties, a new movement of tango composers and tango orchestras playing new songs was born in Buenos Aires. It was mainly influenced by the old orchestra style rather than by Piazzolla’s renewal and experiments with electronic music. The novelty lies in the new songs, with today’s lyrics and language, which find inspiration in a wide variety of contemporary styles.\n\nOver the two first decades of this century, the movement has grown with the creation of countless bands playing new tangos. The most prominent figures leading this phenomenon have been the Orquesta Típica Fernandez Fierro, whose creator, Julian Peralta, would later start Astillero and the Orquesta Típica Julián Peralta. Other bands also have become part of the movement such as the Orquesta Rascacielos, Altertango, Ciudad Baigón, as well as singer and songwriters Alfredo “Tape” Rubín, Victoria di Raimondo, Juan Serén, Natalí de Vicenzo and Pacha González.\n\nAlthough tango music was strictly circumscribed to the tango interpreters it was the classically trained Argentinian pianist Arminda Canteros (1911–2002) who used to play tangos to satisfy the requests of her father who could not understand Classical music. She developed her own style and had a weekly program of tango music for a radio station in Rosario, Argentina in the 1930s and 1940s. Since tango playing was considered the epitome of machismo, she had to take the masculine pseudonym, \"Juancho\" for the broadcasts.\n\nMs. Canteros settled in New York City in 1970 where she recorded later in 1989 her CD \"Tangos\" when she was 78 years old.\nFollowing Ms. Cantero’s example, another Argentinian female pianist brought tango music to the concert halls: Cecilia Pillado played a complete tango recital at the Berliner Philharmonie in 1997 and recorded that program for her CD “Cexilia’s Tangos”.\n\nSince then tango has become part of the repertoire for great classical musicians like the baritone Jorge Chaminé with his \"Tangos\" recording with bandoneónist Olivier Manoury. Also al Tango, Yo-Yo Ma, Martha Argerich, Daniel Barenboim, Gidon Kremer, Plácido Domingo and Marcelo Alvarez have performed and recorded Tangos.\n\nSome classical composers have written tangos, such as Isaac Albéniz in \"España\" (1890), Erik Satie in \"Le Tango perpétuel\" (1914), Igor Stravinsky in \"Histoire du Soldat\" (1918). Nikolai Myaskovsky composed an Argentinian Death Tango for a poem War and Peace. Kurt Weill continued this style in \"The Threepenny Opera\" (1928) (Die Dreigroschenoper), e.g. composed a song called 'Tango Ballade' or 'Zuhälterballade', a fateful song about underworld life (a symphonic version in suite Kleine Dreigroschenmusik commissioned by Otto Klemperer); a bit latter he composed another evergreen, 'Youkali' (Tango-Habanera) on French lyrics. Also noteworthy was the accordionist John Serry Sr. who composed \"Tango of Love\" & \"Petite Tango\" for accordion quartet (1955). The list of composers who wrote inspired by tango music also includes John Cage in \"Perpetual Tango\" (1984), John Harbison in \"Tango Seen from Ground Level\" (1991), and Milton Babbitt in \"It Takes Twelve to Tango\" (1984). The influence of Piazzolla has fallen on a number of contemporary composers. The \"Tango Mortale\" in \"Arcadiana\" by Thomas Adès is an example.\n\nMany popular songs in the United States have borrowed melodies from tango: the earliest published tango, \"El Choclo\", lent its melody to the fifties hit \"Kiss of Fire\". Similarly \"Adiós Muchachos\" became \"I Get Ideas\", and \"Strange Sensation\" was based on \"La Cumparsita\".\n\nShowing tango music's continued popularity, multiple international radio stations broadcast non-stop tango music today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52346591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52346591", "title": "Tattvacintāmaṇi", "text": "Tattvacintāmaṇi\n\nTattvacintāmaṇi is a treatise in Sanskrit authored by 12th century CE Indian logician and philosopher Gangesa Upadhyaya (also known as Gangesvara Upadhyaya). The title may be translated into English as \"A Thought-jewel of Truth.\" The treatise is also known as Pramāṇa-cintāmaṇi (\"A Thought-jewel of Valid Knowledge\"). \n\nThe treatise introduced a new era in the history of Indian logic. Satis Chandra Vidyabhusana in his authoritative 681-page history of Indian logic divided the millennia long history of Indian logic into three sometimes overlapping periods: Ancient period (650 BCE – 100 CE), Medieval period (100 CE – 1200 CE) and Modern period (from 900 CE). He also identified certain standard work as typical representative of each of these periods. Tattvacinthamani of Gangesa is the text identified as the standard work of the Modern period in the history of Indian logic, the standard works for the earlier periods being Nyāya Sūtra by Akṣapāda Gautama (Ancient period) and Pramāṇa-samuccaya by Dignāga (Medieval period). The fact that Tattvacintāmaṇi was highly popular is attested by the appearance of a large number of commentaries that have been produced in the centuries that followed the appearance of the book. It has been estimated that while the original text of Tattvacintāmaṇi has about 300 pages, all the commentaries put together contain about a million pages.\n\nGangesa Upadhyaya, also known as Gangesvara Upadhyaya, a Maithila Brahmin, who flourished during the 12th century CE, is the author of Tattvacintāmaṇi. Gangesa was a native of Mithila, was born in a village named Chadana and lived his later life in a village named Karion on the banks of the river Kamala, twelve miles south-east of Darbhanga. There is a legend to the effect that Gangesa was completely illiterate while he was young and propitiated the goddess Kali on the cremation ground adjacent to his uncle's house, and acquired from her, as a boon, deep erudition in the science of Logic. He belonged to Kashyapa-gotra. It is believed that he had several wives, three sons and a daughter. One of his sons was Vardhamana Upadhyaya who was also a pupil of Gangesa. Varadhamana himself became a great scholar of nyaya and composed a commentary on Tattvacintāmaṇi named Tattvacintāmaṇi-prakasa and also several other works.\n\nLarge sections of the treatise have not yet been translated into English or any other Indian languages. Broadly, Tattva-Cintāmaṇi is divided into four books dealing respectively with perception (pratyaksha), inference (anumāna), comparison (upamāna) and verbal testimony (sabda). According to nyaya doctrines, these are the four means for deriving valid knowledge. The following references provide sources where one can find detailed accounts of the contents of Tattva-Cintāmaṇi. \n\nTattva-Cintāmaṇi has attracted a large number of commentaries. Vardhamana Mahopadhyaya, a son of Gangesa, has himself written a commentary on Tattva-Cintāmaṇi. \"The History of Logic\" gives brief accounts of as many as 48 commentaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27689296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27689296", "title": "The Triumph of Science over Death", "text": "The Triumph of Science over Death\n\nThe Triumph of Science over Death, also known as Scientia, is a clay sculpture made by José Rizal as a gift to his friend Ferdinand Blumentritt.\n\nThe statue depicts a young, nude woman with flowing hair, standing on a skull while bearing a torch. The woman symbolizes the ignorance of humankind during the Dark Ages of history, while the torch she bears symbolizes the enlightenment science brings to the world. The woman stands atop a skull, a symbol of death, to signify the victory that humankind aims to achieve by conquering the bane of death through scientific advancement.\n\nThe original sculpture is now displayed at the Rizal Shrine Museum at Fort Santiago in Intramuros, Manila. A large replica, made of concrete, stands in front of Fernando Calderón Hall of the University of the Philippines College of Medicine along Pedro Gil St. in Ermita, Manila. Another replica is found outside the old Department of Health research facility in Muntinlupa City and now incorporated into the design of the ongoing expansion of Festival Supermall.\n\nThe motif of the statue is also used by various medical associations in the Philippines as their symbol, the most notable of which is the Philippine College of Surgeons.\n\n"}
{"id": "441617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441617", "title": "Tribal sovereignty in the United States", "text": "Tribal sovereignty in the United States\n\nTribal sovereignty in the United States is the concept of the inherent authority of indigenous tribes to govern themselves within the borders of the United States. The U.S. federal government recognizes tribal nations as \"domestic dependent nations\" and has established a number of laws attempting to clarify the relationship between the federal, state, and tribal governments.\n\nThe United States Constitution mentions Native American tribes three times:\n\n\nThese basic provisions have been changed or clarified by various federal laws over the history of the United States. \"Regulate\" historically meant \"facilitate\", rather than control or direct in the more modern sense. Therefore, the Congress of these United States was to be the facilitator of commerce between the states and the tribes.\n\nThese Constitutional provisions, and subsequent interpretations by the Supreme Court (see below), are today often summarized in three principles of U.S. Indian law:\n\nThe Marshall Trilogy is a set of three Supreme Court decisions in the early nineteenth century affirming the legal and political standing of Indian nations.\n\n\nThe Indian Appropriations Act of 1871 had two significant sections. First, the Act ended United States recognition of additional Native American tribes or independent nations, and prohibited additional treaties. Thus it required the federal government no longer interact with the various tribes through treaties, but rather through statutes:\n\nBefore 1871, the United States had recognized the Indian Tribes as semi-independent.\n\nThe 1871 Act also made it a federal crime to commit murder, manslaughter, rape, assault with intent to kill, arson, burglary, and larceny within any Territory of the United States.\n\nThe 1871 Act was affirmed in 1886 by the US Supreme Court, in \"United States v. Kagama\", which affirmed that the Congress has plenary power over all Native American tribes within its borders by rationalization that \"The power of the general government over these remnants of a race once powerful ... is necessary to their protection as well as to the safety of those among whom they dwell\". The Supreme Court affirmed that the US Government \"has the right and authority, instead of controlling them by treaties, to govern them by acts of Congress, they being within the geographical limit of the United States. ... The Indians owe no allegiance to a State within which their reservation may be established, and the State gives them no protection.\"\n\nOn April 10, 1883, five years after establishing Indian police powers throughout the various reservations, the Indian Commissioner approved rules for a \"court of Indian offenses\". The court provided a venue for prosecuting criminal charges, but afforded no relief for tribes seeking to resolve civil matters. The new courts' rules specifically targeted tribal religious practices which it called \"heathenish rites\" and the commissioner urged courts to \"destroy the tribal relations as fast as possible\". Another five years later, Congress began providing funds to operate the Indian courts.\n\nWhile U.S. courts clarified some of the rights and responsibilities of states and the federal government toward the Indian nations within the new nation's first century, it was almost another century before United States courts determined what powers remained vested in the tribal nations. In the interim, as a trustee charged with protecting their interests and property, the federal government was legally entrusted with ownership and administration of the assets, land, water, and treaty rights of the tribal nations.\n\nPassed by Congress in 1887, the \"Dawes Act\" was named for Senator Henry L. Dawes of Massachusetts, Chairman of the Senate's Indian Affairs Committee. It came as another crucial step in attacking the tribal aspect of the Indians of the time. In essence, the act broke up the land of most all tribes into modest parcels to be distributed to Indian families, and those remaining were auctioned off to white purchasers. Indians who accepted the farmland and became \"civilized\" were made American citizens. But the Act itself proved disastrous for Indians, as much tribal land was lost and cultural traditions destroyed. Whites benefited the most; for example, when the government made of Indian lands available in Oklahoma, 50,000 white settlers poured in almost instantly to claim it all (in a period of one day, April 22, 1889).\n\nThe \"Revenue Act of 1924\" () (June 2, 1924), also known as the \"Mellon tax bill\", cut federal tax rates and established the U.S. Board of Tax Appeals, which was later renamed the United States Tax Court in 1942. The bill was named after U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon. The Revenue Act was applicable to incomes for 1924. The bottom rate, on income under $4,000, fell from 1.5% to 1.125% (both rates are after reduction by the \"earned income credit\"). A parallel act, the \"Indian Citizenship Act of 1924\" (, Ch. 233 (1924)), granted all non-citizen resident Indians citizenship. Thus the Revenue Act declared that there were no longer any \"Indians, not taxed\" to be not counted for purposes of United States Congressional apportionment. President Calvin Coolidge signed the bill into law.\n\nIn \"Iron Crow v. Oglala Sioux Tribe\", the United States Supreme Court concluded that two Oglala Sioux defendants convicted of adultery under tribal laws, and another challenging a tax from the tribe, were not exempted from the tribal justice system because they had been granted U.S. citizenship. It found that tribes \"still possess their inherent sovereignty excepting only when it has been specifically taken from them by treaty or Congressional Act\". This means American Indians do not have exactly the same rights of citizenship as other American citizens. The court cited case law from a pre-1924 case that said, \"when Indians are prepared to exercise the privileges and bear the burdens of\" \"sui iuris\", i.e. of one's own right and not under the power of someone else, \"the tribal relation may be dissolved and the national guardianship brought to an end, but it rests with Congress to determine when and how this shall be done, and whether the emancipation shall be complete or only partial\" (\"U.S. v. Nice\", 1916). The court further determined, based on the earlier \"Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock\" case, that \"It is thoroughly established that Congress has plenary authority over Indians.\" The court held that, \"the granting of citizenship in itself did not destroy ... jurisdiction of the Indian tribal courts and ... there was no intention on the part of Congress to do so.\" The adultery conviction and the power of tribal courts were upheld.\n\nIn 1934 the \"Indian Reorganization Act\", codified as Title 25, Section 476 of the U.S. Code, allowed Indian nations to select from a catalogue of constitutional documents that enumerated powers for tribes and for tribal councils. Though the Act did not specifically recognize the Courts of Indian Offenses, 1934 is widely considered to be the year when tribal authority, rather than United States authority, gave the tribal courts legitimacy.\n\nIn 1956, a U.S. Court concluded no law had ever established tribal courts, but nonetheless, decades of federal funding implied that they were legitimate courts. \n\nIn 1953, Congress enacted Public Law 280, which gave some states extensive jurisdiction over the criminal and civil controversies involving Indians on Indian lands. Many, especially Indians, continue to believe the law unfair because it imposed a system of laws on the tribal nations without their approval.\n\nIn 1965 the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit concluded that no law had ever extended provisions of the U.S. Constitution, including the right of habeas corpus, to tribal members brought before tribal courts. Still, the court concluded, \"it is pure fiction to say that the Indian courts functioning in the Fort Belknap Indian community are not in part, at least, arms of the federal government. Originally they were created by federal executive and imposed upon the Indian community, and to this day the federal government still maintains a partial control over them.\" In the end however, the Ninth Circuit limited its decision to the particular reservation in question and stated, \"it does not follow from our decision that the tribal court must comply with every constitutional restriction that is applicable to federal or state courts.\"\n\nWhile many modern courts in Indian nations today have established full faith and credit with state courts, the nations still have no direct access to U.S. courts. When an Indian nation files suit against a state in U.S. court, they do so with the approval of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. In the modern legal era, courts and congress have, however, further refined the often competing jurisdictions of tribal nations, states and the United States in regard to Indian law.\n\nIn the 1978 case of \"Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe\", the Supreme Court, in a 6–2 opinion authored by Justice William Rehnquist, concluded that tribal courts do not have jurisdiction over non-Indians (the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court at that time, Warren Burger, and Justice Thurgood Marshall filed a dissenting opinion). But the case left unanswered some questions, including whether tribal courts could use criminal contempt powers against non-Indians to maintain decorum in the courtroom, or whether tribal courts could subpoena non-Indians.\n\nA 1981 case, \"Montana v. United States\", clarified that tribal nations possess inherent power over their internal affairs, and civil authority over non-members within tribal lands to the extent necessary to protect health, welfare, economic interests or political integrity of the tribal nation.\n\nOther cases of those years precluded states from interfering with tribal nations' sovereignty. Tribal sovereignty is dependent on, and subordinate to, only the federal government, not states, under \"Washington v. Confederated Tribes of Colville Indian Reservation\" (1980). Tribes are sovereign over tribal members and tribal land, under \"United States v. Mazurie\" (1975).\n\nIn \"Duro v. Reina\", , the Supreme Court held that a tribal court does not have criminal jurisdiction over a non-member Indian, but that tribes \"also possess their traditional and undisputed power to exclude persons who they deem to be undesirable from tribal lands. ... Tribal law enforcement authorities have the power if necessary, to eject them. Where jurisdiction to try and punish an offender rests outside the tribe, tribal officers may exercise their power to detain and transport him to the proper authorities.\" In response to this decision, Congress passed the \"'Duro\" Fix', which recognizes the power of tribes to exercise criminal jurisdiction within their reservations over all Indians, including non-members. The \"Duro\" Fix was upheld by the Supreme Court in \"United States v. Lara\", .\n\nAt the dawn of the 21st Century, the powers of tribal courts across the United States varied, depending on whether the tribe was in a Public Law 280 state (Alaska, California, Minnesota, Nebraska, Oregon, and Wisconsin) or not. Tribal courts maintain much criminal jurisdiction over their members, and because of the \"Duro\" Fix, over non-member Indians regarding crime on tribal land. The \"Indian Civil Rights Act\", however, limits tribal punishment to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine. Tribal Courts have no criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians. In PL280 states, the state has been granted criminal and civil adjudicatory jurisdiction over activities in Indian Country. In non-PL280 states, Indian on Indian crime in Indian Country may be prosecuted in federal court if the crime is one of those listed in the \"Major Crimes Act\" (18 USC §1153). Indian on non-Indian crime in Indian Country will be prosecuted in federal court, either from the \"MCA\", or the \"Indian Country Crimes Act\" (§1152) (unless the Indian was punished by the tribe). Non-Indian on Indian crime in Indian Country will be prosecuted in federal court using \"ICCA\". Non-Indian on non-Indian crime in Indian Country will be prosecuted by the state.\n\nWhile tribal nations do not enjoy direct access to U.S. courts to bring cases against individual states, as sovereign nations they do enjoy immunity against many lawsuits, unless a plaintiff is granted a waiver by the tribe or by congressional abrogation. The sovereignty extends to tribal enterprises and tribal casinos or gaming commissions. The \"Indian Civil Rights Act\" does not allow actions against an Indian tribe in federal court for deprivation of substantive rights, except for habeas corpus proceedings.\n\nTribal and pueblo governments today launch far-reaching economic ventures, operate growing law enforcement agencies and adopt codes to govern conduct within their jurisdiction but the United States retains control over the scope of tribal law making. Laws adopted by Native American governments must also pass the Secretarial Review of the Department of Interior through the Bureau of Indian Affairs.\n\nWhen the United States government formed, it replaced the British government as the other sovereignty coexisting in America with the American Indians. The U.S. constitution specifically mentions American Indians three times. Article I, section 2, clause 3 and the fourteenth amendment section 2 address the handling of \"Indians not taxed\" in the apportionment of the seats of the House of Representatives according to population and in so doing suggest that Indians need not \"be\" taxed. In Article I section 8, clause 3, Congress is empowered to \"regulate commerce with foreign nations…states…and with the Indian tribes.\" Technically, Congress has no more power over Indian nations than it does over individual states. In the 1970s Native American self-determination replaced Indian termination policy as the official United States policy towards Native Americans. Self-determination promoted the ability of tribes to self-govern and make decisions concerning their people. It has been argued that American Indian matters should be handled through the United States Secretary of State, the official responsible for foreign policy. However, in dealing with Indian policy, a separate agency, the Bureau of Indian Affairs has been in place since 1824.\n\nThe idea that tribes have an inherent right to govern themselves is at the foundation of their constitutional status — the power is not delegated by congressional acts. Congress can, however, limit tribal sovereignty. Unless a treaty or federal statute removes a power, however, the tribe is assumed to possess it. Current federal policy in the United States recognizes this sovereignty and stresses the government-to-government relations between Washington, D.C. and the American Indian tribes. However, most Indian land is held in trust by the United States, and federal law still regulates the political and economic rights of tribal governments. Tribal jurisdiction over persons and things within tribal borders are often at issue. While tribal criminal jurisdiction over Indians is reasonably well settled, Tribes are still striving to achieve criminal jurisdiction over non-Indian persons who commit crimes in Indian Country. This is mostly due to the Supreme Court's ruling in 1978 in \"Oliphant v. Suquamish Indian Tribe\" that tribes lack the inherent authority to arrest, try and convict non-Indians who commit crimes on their lands (see below for additional discussion on this point.)\n\nAnother dispute over American Indian government is its sovereignty versus that of the states. The federal U.S. government has always been the government that makes treaties with Indian tribes – not individual states. Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution states that \"Congress shall have the power to regulate Commerce with foreign nations and among the several states, and with the Indian tribes\". This determined that Indian tribes were separate from the federal or state governments and that the states did not have power to regulate commerce with the tribes, much less regulate the tribes. The states and tribal nations have clashed over many issues such as Indian gaming, fishing, and hunting. American Indians believed that they had treaties between their ancestors and the United States government, protecting their right to fish, while non-Indians believed the states were responsible for regulating commercial and sports fishing. In the case \"Menominee Tribe v. United States\" in 1968, it was ruled that \"the establishment of a reservation by treaty, statute or agreement includes an implied right of Indians to hunt and fish on that reservation free of regulation by the state\". States have tried to extend their power over the tribes in many other instances, but federal government ruling has continuously ruled in favor of tribal sovereignty. A seminal court case was \"Worcester v. Georgia\". Chief Justice Marshall found that \"England had treated the tribes as sovereign and negotiated treaties of alliance with them. The United States followed suit, thus continuing the practice of recognizing tribal sovereignty. When the United States assumed the role of protector of the tribes, it neither denied nor destroyed their sovereignty.\" As determined in the Supreme Court case \"United States v. Nice\" (1916), U.S. citizens are subject to all U.S. laws even if they also have tribal citizenship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33879797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33879797", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 2004", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 2004\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 2004 was unanimously adopted on 30 August 2011.\n\nIn the wake of attacks against the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), the Security Council extended its mandate for one year, until 31 August 2012, and condemned all terrorist attacks against it in the strongest terms.\n\nThe resolution was unanimously adopted, and the Security Council urged all parties concerned to respect the cessation of hostilities, prevent any violation of the Blue Line and cooperate fully with UNIFIL. The resolution called for the rapid finalization of Lebanon’s investigation into the 27 May and 26 July attacks on the Force so as to bring the perpetrators to justice, and urged all parties to abide scrupulously by their obligation to respect the safety of UNIFIL and other United Nations personnel.\n\nFurthermore, the Council urged Israel to expedite the withdrawal of its army from northern Ghajar without further delay, in coordination with UNIFIL. It called for further cooperation between the Force and the Lebanese Armed Forces, particularly in terms of adjacent patrols, and requested the Secretary-General to conduct a strategic review by year’s end to ensure UNIFIL was configured most appropriately to fulfil its mandate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24205365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24205365", "title": "Winton Train", "text": "Winton Train\n\nThe Winton Train was a private passenger train that travelled from the Czech Republic to Great Britain in September 2009 in tribute to the wartime efforts of Sir Nicholas Winton, described as the 'British Schindler' for his part in saving refugee children from Czechoslovakia.\n\nAs a result of Sir Nicholas' efforts in the months leading up to the outbreak of World War II in 1939, a total of seven locomotives transported 669 Czechoslovak children of mainly Jewish heritage from Prague to safety in Great Britain.\n\nSir Nicholas' kindertransport efforts remained largely unrecognised until 1988, when they came to public attention after his wife found a scrapbook in their attic documenting the details. Only then did the individuals whom Winton arranged to have transported to safety as children learn the story of how they survived the Holocaust. As the majority of 'Winton's Children' (as they came to be known) were Jewish, it is believed this saved them from certain death had they stayed in Czechoslovakia. As of 2009, the direct descendants of Winton's Children numbered over 5000 people.\n\nThe 2009 tribute Winton Train carried some of the individuals Sir Nicholas arranged to have transported to safety in 1939, along with their families, as it retraced the original kindertransport route taken by the trains on which they rode as children to safety in Great Britain 70 years earlier. The Winton Train departed on 1 September 2009, the 70th anniversary of the eighth, and intended last, train arranged by Winton to carry children to safety but was prevented from doing so due to the outbreak of World War II on that very day. It departed from Prague Main railway station and travelled through Germany and the Netherlands. After a transfer by ferry to Harwich, the journey resumed by train again to arrive in London's Liverpool Street station on 4 September, where it was met by the 100-year-old Sir Nicholas himself. For the journey across mainland Europe, the train was formed of period carriages and was hauled by historically authentic steam locomotives, while the British leg was hauled by 60163 \"Tornado\", a brand-new, main-line British steam locomotive completed in 2008, along with carriages that were constructed in the 1950s.\n\nThe tribute train was the centrepiece of a wider cultural awareness project known as 'Inspiration by Goodness', organised by the Czech government.\n\nBetween March and September 1939, the months leading up to the outbreak of World War II, Nicholas Winton, a 29-year-old Christian British stockbroker whose parents were of German Jewish descent, organised eight trains to transport mainly Jewish Czech and Slovak refugee children from Czechoslovakia to homes in Britain. The Winton trains were part of a wider British rescue effort from various other countries across Europe, known as the Kindertransports.\nIn 1939, Winton cancelled a trip to a Swiss holiday resort to go to Prague, having heard of a growing refugee crisis resulting from the German occupation of Czechoslovakia from a friend. His friend was working in the British embassy for the British Committee for Refugees from Czechoslovakia, which was already working to help adults escape from Czechoslovakia. When Winton learned that refugee children could not leave unless accompanied, he decided to arrange their evacuation to Britain. While the Winton evacuations later became known by the collective label of the children's Kindertransports, which were officially being organised elsewhere in other countries, no official Kindertransports had been arranged in Prague at that time.\n\nWinton organised the transfer of the children from the Nazi-appointed Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia to homes in Britain, in the process arranging the necessary bonds and permits for their departure, and finding the families in Britain who would receive the children. Winton and a team identified those children most at risk from the thousands of refugees driven south following the Nazi invasion of the Sudetenland. For each child to be accepted, British officials required a confirmed foster home and a £50 guarantee. Winton returned to Great Britain in March to arrange the reception of the children, but his task was hampered by the fact that the domestic evacuation of children was already occurring, and places were hard to find.\n\nBeginning in March, Winton organised eight trains, which in total transported 669 mainly Jewish children from Nazi occupied Czechoslovakia to Great Britain. A ninth and final train with 250 children on board was stopped at the last minute, due to the outbreak of the war. Only two children on this ninth aborted train survived the war. According to Channel 4 News reporting on the 2009 Winton Train, \"Sir Nicholas has said many times that the vision that haunts him most is the families waiting at Liverpool Street for the train that never arrived\".\n\nThe original trains left from Prague Wilson railway station (now Prague Main station). While most of the children were met by their new families at London's Liverpool Street station, some of the children got off the trains at Harwich, where they were placed with local families. Few if any of the Winton children saw their parents again.\n\nWinton's efforts did not come to public light until 1988, when his wife discovered papers in their loft, whereupon Winton began to publicly talk about his work, and he came to be known as the 'British Schindler', in comparison to Oskar Schindler. Sir Nicholas himself believed this was undeserved, because unlike Schindler, his life had never been in danger.\n\nA project to run a train in tribute to the original Winton trains was announced on 21 January 2008 as the \"Train Prague – London\" project, and the organisers were negotiating to have the train named after Sir Nicholas. The train was run by Czech Railways and sponsored by the Czech government, with the project being dedicated to their holding of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union from January to June 2009. The train was part of a wider project encompassing social and cultural events along the route to \"inspire young people through the deeds of Nicholas Winton\", and with the theme of \"Inspiration by Goodness\", it incorporated art, film, photographic and literary contests by university students and school children.\n\nThe project was to follow on from the work of documentary film maker Matej Mináč about Sir Nicholas, including his new film project \"Nicky's Family\". While travelling on the train, Mináč filmed scenes for a new version of the Winton story. The Czech Senate President Přemysl Sobotka said of the project that it \"should warn against rising extremism and anti-Semitism in Europe and in the world\".\n\nThe motive power for the train journey was provided by six different steam locomotives in total, two as a double-headed train in the Czech Republic due to the terrain, two in Germany, one in the Netherlands and one in Great Britain. The entire journey was scheduled to take four days, involving a European train leg, a crossing by the passengers on a ferry and a British train leg. It covered a distance of , of which was the train journey across mainland Europe.\n\nOn 1 September the train departed Prague Main railway station. On this first day it travelled to the German city of Nuremberg, crossing the Czech - German border at Furth im Wald in the Bavarian Forest. The following day, the train was to travel across Germany to Cologne, via Frankfurt am Main. Instead of Frankfurt however, it travelled via Wiesbaden and the right bank of the River Rhine. On the third day, the train arrived on the North Sea coast at the Dutch ferry port, Hook of Holland, crossing the Dutch - German border at Emmerich am Rhein and passing through the Netherlands via Rotterdam. The passengers disembarked the train to cross the North Sea to Great Britain overnight on the Stena Line ferry \"Stena Britannica\" to Harwich, a port in the East of England on the country boundary between Essex and Suffolk. The British train journey formed the fourth day of the journey, travelling from Harwich to the London terminus of Liverpool Street station.\n\nOn this final day the train departed Harwich International railway station at 09:12am. It travelled via and , arriving at Liverpool Street station at 10:37 on Platform 10. Platform 10 was the platform number that the original Winton trains had used, although the platform numbers were reconfigured in the 1980s as part of the station's redevelopment.\n\nSir Nicholas, now 100 years old, met the train at Liverpool Street as guest of honour. On greeting the passengers, Winton said \"It's wonderful to see you all after 70 years; don't leave it quite so long until we meet here again.\n\nAt Liverpool Street Station all guests and train passengers were conveyed by a fleet of 70-year-old London buses to the Czech Embassy for the Official Reception. The special transport was organised by the Autofest Organisation on behalf of the Bohemia Transport Muzeum with special help from the London Bus Preservation Trust and the Newman family of Ensign Buses.\n\n\" Also at Liverpool Street to meet the train was Štefan Füle, the Czech Minister for European Affairs, and a former Czech ambassador to Britain.\n\nTravelling through the Czech Republic from Prague to Furth im Wald, the train was double-headed by locomotives No. 486.007 and 498.022, with 486.007 leading as the train left Prague. No. 486.007, known as the \"Green Anton\" is a preserved steam locomotive built in 1936 and based in Vrútky, Slovakia, owned by Slovak Republic Railways (ŽSR). It is one of the class, and has a green livery. No. 498.022, which is one of the class, has a blue livery and is owned by Czech Railways, who store it at Libeň in Prague, Czech Republic.\n\nTravelling through Germany from Furth im Wald to Emmerich am Rhein, the train was hauled by locomotive No. 41 018. No. 41 018 is a preserved steam locomotive built in 1939 and based at the Augsburg Railway Park railway museum in Augsburg, Bavaria. It is one of the locomotive class DRG Class 41, and it is owned by DG München. From Linz am Rhein to Cologne, a second locomotive, No. 41 360 was attached.\n\nAs the train travelled through the Netherlands from Emmerich am Rhein to Hook of Holland, it was hauled by Locomotive No. 01 1075. No. 01 1075 is a preserved steam locomotive built in 1940 and based at the Stoom Stichting Nederland (SSN) railway museum in Rotterdam. It is one of the locomotive class DRG Class 01.10.\n\nTravelling through England (from Harwich to London), the train was hauled by No. 60163 \"Tornado\", a British mainline steam locomotive built in 2008 by the A1 Steam Locomotive Trust, the construction of which began in 1994 and was completed in 2008.\n\nThe passenger rolling stock for the European leg from Prague to Hook of Holland comprised nine historic railway carriages of Hungarian and German origin, with a capacity for 240 passengers. The train included the blue liveried state luxury saloon carriage of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, the first president of Czechoslovakia, which entered service on 7 March 1930, Masaryk's 80th birthday.\n\nFor the British leg, behind \"Tornado\" and her maroon support coach, the train was headed by \"Pegasus\", a cream and brown Pullman Bar Car incorporating the Trianon Bar, followed by the historic 1950s built red and cream \"The Royal Scot\" rake of British Railways Mark 1 passenger coaches of Riviera Trains. \"Pegasus\" was built in 1951 for the famous \"Golden Arrow\" boat train, and later rebuilt for heritage mainline use.\n\nThe 2009 Winton train carried 170 passengers, including 22 of those originally rescued, who came to be known as 'Winton's Children'. Passengers included the first, second, or even third generation of descendants of the original children rescued by Sir Nicholas. The descendants of the children Sir Nicholas rescued had by 2009 grown to number 5,000 people. Passengers on the 2009 train also included Sir Nicholas's daughter Barbara. Other survivors who did not travel on the reunion train instead met it at Liverpool Street.\n\nIt was the hope of the project to follow up the 2009 Winton Train to London with other Winton Trains to other European cities, and for it to become a tradition. In May 2011, an exhibition entitled \"Winton's Trains\" opened in London at Liverpool Street station.\n\n\n"}
