{"id": "23945327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23945327", "title": "2009 Graff Diamonds robbery", "text": "2009 Graff Diamonds robbery\n\nThe Graff Diamonds robbery took place on 6 August 2009 when two men posing as customers entered the premises of Graff Diamonds in New Bond Street, London and stole jewellery worth nearly £40 million (US$65 million). It was believed to be the largest ever gems heist in Britain at the time, and the second largest British robbery after the £53 million raid on a Securitas depot in Kent in 2006. The thieves' haul totalled 43 items of jewellery, consisting of rings, bracelets, necklaces and wristwatches. One necklace alone has been reported as being worth more than £3.5m. Britain's previous largest jewellery robbery also took place at Graff's, in 2003. As of September 2014, none of the stolen jewels have been recovered.\n\nThe robbers used the services of a professional make-up artist to alter their skin tones and their features using latex prosthetics and to be fitted with professional wigs. The artist took four hours to apply the disguises, having been told that it was for a music video. Viewing the results in a mirror, Aman Kassaye commented: \"My own mother wouldn't recognise me now,\" to which his accomplice is reported to have laughed and replied: \"That's got to be a good thing, hasn't it?\" The same make-up studio had unwittingly helped disguise members of the gang that robbed the Securitas depot in 2006. \n\nOn 6 August 2009 at 4:40 pm, two sharply dressed men arrived at the Graff Diamonds jewellery store by taxi and once inside produced two handguns which they used to threaten staff. They made no attempt to conceal their faces from the premises' CCTV cameras due to their elaborate disguises. Even though one of the robbers was wearing leather gloves, store security allowed him entry, being used to the eccentric behaviour of some super-wealthy clients.\n\nPetra Ehnar, a shop assistant, was forced at gunpoint to empty the store's display cabinets. A total of 43 rings, bracelets, necklaces and watches were taken. She was briefly held hostage at gunpoint and was forced into the street during the getaway. She testified that the robbers told her that she would be killed if she did not carry out their demands. After releasing the hostage outside the store, one of the robbers fired a shot into the air to create confusion, and both escaped the scene in a blue BMW vehicle. This vehicle was abandoned in nearby Dover Street, where a second gunshot was fired into the ground while the robbers switched to a second vehicle, a silver Mercedes. They again switched vehicles in Farm Street, after which there was no further information regarding their whereabouts.\n\nAll of the diamonds had been laser-inscribed with the Graff logo and a Gemological Institute of America identification number. \n\nDetectives investigating the robbery stated: \"They knew exactly what they were looking for and we suspect they already had a market for the jewels.\" The suspects' details were circulated to all ports and airports but police believed they would have an elaborately prepared escape route and had already left the country.\n\nThe robbery was being investigated by Barnes Flying Squad, headed by Detective Chief Inspector Pam Mace.\n\nThe financial loss to Graff Diamonds was more than US$10 million (£6.6 million). The actual value of the pieces for insurance purposes, was put at $39 million (£26 million). But according to Nicholas Paine, the company secretary, the syndicate that insured Graff was only liable for $28.9 million.\n\nThe robbers were caught shortly after police searched one of the getaway cars abandoned by the robbers. A pay-as-you go mobile phone was discovered that robbers Aman Kassaye and Craig Calderwood left in the car after ramming into a black cab. After the collision, in their haste to transfer to a second vehicle, the robbers forgot the mobile phone that was wedged between the driver's seat and the handbrake. Anonymous numbers stored on the mobile phone quickly allowed police to discover the identity of the robber.\n\nOn 20 August 2009, two men, Craig Calderwood, 26, of no fixed abode, and Solomun Beyene, 24, of Lilestone Road, London NW8, were charged in connection with the robbery. On 21 August, a third man, Clinton Mogg, 42, of Westby Road, Bournemouth, was also charged, and Calderwood and Beyene were remanded in custody by Westminster Magistrates' Court. On 22 August, Mogg appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court. All three were remanded in custody to appear at Kingston Crown Court on 1 September. A fourth man, aged 50, was arrested and bailed. By mid-October, ten male suspects had been arrested in connection with the robbery. Charges brought against the individuals include conspiracy with others to commit robbery, attempted murder, holding someone hostage, possessing firearms and using a handgun to resist arrest.\n\nAman Kassaye, who planned and executed the heist, was found guilty of conspiracy to rob, kidnap and possession of a firearm after a three-month trial at Woolwich Crown Court. On 7 August 2010, he was sentenced to 23 years in prison. Three other men – Solomun Beyene, 25, of London, Clinton Mogg, 43, of Bournemouth, and Thomas Thomas, 46, of Kingston upon Thames – were each jailed for 16 years after also being convicted of conspiracy to rob. Craig Calderwood was finally jailed for 21 years.\n\nAs of March 2011, none of the stolen jewellery has been recovered. Experts believe the jewellery has probably been broken up so the precious stones could be anonymously resold after being recut.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25147950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25147950", "title": "Action Z", "text": "Action Z\n\n\"Initiative Z\" was the Czechoslovak communist regime's attempt to tap a volunteer work and community spirit toward supplementing local infrastructure and public facility improvement using volunteer work while the construction material and the logistics were provided by the government.\n\nIn Communist Czechoslovakia, Initiative Z () was a nationwide program of a volunteer, community-improvement unpaid manual labor by population, which was officially recognized as volunteer work which run for several decades, mainly on the projects where the 5-year planned economy was in a substantial delay.\n\nSpecific local plans with Initiative Z community-improvement projects were usually announced by a local \"\" (\"People's Committee\", i.e. an elected city council-like local government administrative body). Larger projects undertaken within the Initiative Z have eventually found their place into the nationwide state plans of economic development, such as Five-Year Plans.\n\nThe work was done outside the regular work hours, very often on Saturday morning and was somehow similar to \"subbotniks\" in the Soviet Union or standard community-action or community-improvement initiatives and programs in the West.\n\nAlthough it was meant to be entirely voluntary work, the names of volunteers and a number of worked hours were duly documented. Those citizens who did not participate and their names therefore did not figure on the lists, were questioned, why they did not come to contribute and in many cases put under an unpleasant pressure by mentioning possible disadvantages such as a reduced choice with respect to future education or difficult change of employer.\n\nThose citizens who worked the most hours were publicly recognized and there was an award-system which gave those who contributed more than 50 hours in a given year a Silver Akce Z Pin and those with more than 100 hours a Golden Akce Z Pin. Many, especially young people, earned - over the years - several of these and mentioned the fact say in applications for university admission.\n\n\"Z\" stands for the Czech word \"zvelebování\", \"improvement\", referring to improvement of public places. Typical activities ranged from garbage removal and planting trees to construction of some public-service facilities, such as children playgrounds, cultural centers (Kulturní domy, Houses of Culture), municipal pipelines or sewage lines, large number of grocery stores in small villages (for example grocery store Smíšené Zboží in village (Hůrky coordinates 49.049331 N ,15.133108 E) near Nová Bystřice) etc..\n\nIn the late 1980s when the planned economy was in the latest phase of its struggle, even technically advanced projects were attempted to be progressed by sending numbers of unskilled volunteers to help under the umbrella of Initiative Z. However, the lack of skills among volunteers often resulted in contra-productive outcome and faulty results of volunteer work, although well hidden, regularly led to even longer delays. Many participants recalled futile work be ordered upon them, for illustration having to shuffle a large heap of sand with shovels and wheelbarrows the whole day by 20 meters, just to witness it being relocated by a machine to its original location in the following working days.\n\nUnder any regime always sceptical, Czech folk wit claimed that \"Z\" stood for \"zdarma\", i.e., \"without pay\".\n\n"}
{"id": "825532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=825532", "title": "Aeronáutica Agrícola Mexicana SA", "text": "Aeronáutica Agrícola Mexicana SA\n\nAeronáutica Agrícola Mexicana SA (AAMSA) was an aircraft manufacturing company in Mexico from 1971 to 1984.\n\nAAMSA was formed in 1971 as a joint venture between Rockwell International (30%) and Industrias Unidas SA (70%) to manufacture Rockwell's range of agricultural aircraft at a factory in Pasteje.\n\nThe company’s most noteworthy product was the A9B-M Quail, a development of the CallAir A-9, which was produced until 1984. About 40 units were produced.\n"}
{"id": "41368251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41368251", "title": "Alexander Lang Elder", "text": "Alexander Lang Elder\n\nAlexander Lang Elder (18 April 1815 – 5 September 1885) was a businessman and politician in colonial South Australia.\n\nElder was the second son of George Elder of Kirkcaldy, Fife, Scotland, by Joanna Haddo, his wife, daughter of Alexander Lang, of Leith, Scotland, and brother of Sir Thomas Elder, was born at Kirkcaldy, and emigrated on the \"Minerva\" to South Australia, arriving in January 1840 in Adelaide, where he founded the well-known mercantile firm of Elders Limited, later Elder, Smith & Co., of Adelaide. He was a partner with Frederick Dutton in a pastoral lease at Mount Remarkable in 1846.\n\nHe married Mary Eliza Austin, a daughter of Rev. John Baptist Austin, of South Australia on 8 April 1847.\n\nHe was elected by the West Adelaide district to the first mixed franchise Legislative Council in 1851, but resigned his seat on 30 March 1853, leaving for England, where he headed of the firm of A. L. Elder & Co., of London, until his death in London on 5 September 1885.\n"}
{"id": "46194612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46194612", "title": "Athelstan Caroe", "text": "Athelstan Caroe\n\nSir Einar Athelstan Gordon Caroe CBE (6 October 1903 – 18 April 1988) was a grain merchant and broker with the firm of W.S. Williamson and Co., Liverpool. He was born in Blundellsands, Lancashire, and died in Scorton, Lancashire.\n\nCaroe was chairman of the Trustee Savings Banks Association, honorary president of the EEC Savings Bank Group and a director of the Norwich Union Group.. He was Chairman on Minton Limited until its sale to Royal Doulton in 1968. Caroe was also consul for Denmark and Iceland in Liverpool.\n\nHe was appointed a Knight Bachelor in January 1972.\n\nCaroe married twice, first to Frances Mary Lyon on 6 April 1934 (Mary was descended from Thomas Minton and Colin Minton Campbell) they two sons Charles Frederick Caroe (13 May 1935 to 1 August 2012) and Andrew Minton Campbell. Mary died from polio in 1948. Athelstan married Doreen Evelen Jane Sandland in 1952 (known as Jane). They had three children Clarissa, John and Patrick. Jane died in Lancaster, 21 April 2003. John died at birth and Patrick in 2014 at the age of 49.\n\nIn his spare time, Caroe was a noted philatelist who was added to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1972. Athelstan was an able tennis player in his youth competing in mixed double at county level with his wife Mary, no doubt helped by his height (6'5\").\n"}
{"id": "19508014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19508014", "title": "Australian MBA Star Ratings", "text": "Australian MBA Star Ratings\n\nThe Graduate Management Association of Australia produces and publishes its annual GMAA Master of Business Administration (MBA) Star Rating it says details a survey of business schools in Australia.\n\nThe current Star Ratings and the Methodology of Assessment is available at.\n\n"}
{"id": "3852745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3852745", "title": "Beijing Benz", "text": "Beijing Benz\n\nBeijing Benz (officially Beijing Benz Automotive Co., Ltd) is an automotive manufacturing company headquartered in Beijing, China, and a joint venture between BAIC Motor and Daimler AG. \n\nOriginally established in 1984 as Beijing Jeep Corporation () by BAIC Motor with American Motors Corporation (AMC), it was the first Chinese auto-making joint venture with a Western partner. It continued after AMC was acquired by Chrysler in 1987 and after Chrysler merged with German automaker Daimler-Benz AG in 1998.\n\nAs of 2016, Beijing Benz assembles and manufactures the Mercedes-Benz E-Class (long wheelbase), and C-Class in China.\n\nThe history of this company goes back to Beijing Jeep Corporation (BJC), which was the first Sino-foreign automobile joint venture in China. It became a prototype for future cooperative projects and BJC became a test case revealing problems, both political and economic, that would appear for other investors the Chinese hoped to attract.\n\nThe current name, Beijing Benz, was established in 2005 and the enterprise now owned by Beiqi and Daimler AG.\n\nBeijing Benz grew out of what was originally the Beijing Jeep Corporation (), China's first Sino-western automotive joint venture having been established in 1984 with American Motors Corporation.\n\nAmerican Motors began negotiations in 1979 to sell its vehicles in China and gain access to then low-cost Chinese labor. The Chinese wanted more-modern automotive technology; Beijing Jeep suited the needs of both parties and produced the American Motors Jeep Cherokee (XJ) in Beijing. While talks began in the late 1970s, operation started in 1985. The initial investment by AMC was $8 million. Assembly of the Cherokee continued after Chrysler purchased American Motors as did production of the classic Beijing BJ212-based SUVs.\n\nBeijing Jeep has since become well known as an example of early FDI in China. Its pitfalls and successes are pored over in case studies, and such academic reports sometimes compare the marketing strategy of Beijing Jeep with that of Shanghai Volkswagen, another early Sino-foreign joint venture.\n\nWhen Chrysler purchased American Motors in 1987, its Jeep brand came with an unexpected boon, Beijing Jeep. A few Chrysler models were subsequently added to the Chinese company's product line including the Jeep Grand Cherokee, Mitsubishi Pajero Sport, and the Mitsubishi Outlander, as well as some Beijing Jeep-branded, locally developed vehicles. Chrysler no longer had any ownership in Beijing Jeep as of early 2009 due to the failure of its attempt to acquire the maker of Mercedes-Benz models. That German company, Daimler, kept the profitable China manufacturing operation for itself once it was clear the merger was a failed prospect. Domestic manufacture of Jeep-branded vehicles ceased in 2006. Newer Jeep models are now being produced at a joint venture between Guangzhou Automobile Group and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, current owner of the Chrysler and Jeep brands, however.\n\nDuring Chrysler's short-lived partnership with Daimler AG, maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, production at Beijing Jeep was expanded to include Mercedes-Benz-branded products. Its legal name was changed to Beijing Benz-DaimlerChrysler Automotive Co Ltd, with then German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder in attendance at the 2004 naming ceremony. While Chrysler was removed from the company in 2009, it remained in its legal name for several more years.\n\nThe company started producing the Mercedes-Benz E-Class locally in 2006 and the C-Class in 2008. Manufacture of Chrysler-branded models continued until at least 2008. This included the 300C and Sebring, which were both locally produced and imported.\n\nPrior to 2010, the E-Class was assembled from knock-down kits with a low localization rate of about 30%.\n\nIncidentally, Daimler had previously cooperated with FAW Group to produce the then-recently discontinued Mercedes-Benz W123 (200 and 230E) sedans although these did not prove popular. Between January 1988 and sometimes in 1990, a mere 828 units were assembled in Changchun most of which were 230s. A few dozen of the long wheelbase 230E (V123) were among the cars assembled.\n\nBeijing Benz has a production base at the Beijing Economic & Technological Development Area. Another plant opened in 2010. This opening may have increased potential Beijing Benz production capacity to 300,000 units/year. Such unit counts may consider engines and automobiles as discrete. A future engine-making production base is scheduled to become operational in 2013.\n\nWhile Beijing Benz does not produce all the Mercedes-branded autos sold on the Chinese market. Some Mercedes offerings, the S-Class for example, are imported by Mercedes-Benz (China) Ltd.\n\nAs of 2009, Beijing Benz products, alongside those of several other makes, are purchased for use by Chinese State officials such as ministers and provincial heads.\n\nSales in 2010 were expected to reach 50,000 cars, but total Mercedes-Benz sales in China including imports were near 150,000. In 2008, Beijing Benz's production capacity was estimated at 100,000 units/year although that figure may consider engines and vehicles as discrete, and the company was likely able to produce only half that number of whole vehicles.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22190883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22190883", "title": "Beverley Randolph Mason", "text": "Beverley Randolph Mason\n\nBeverley Randolph Mason (1 September 1834–22 April 1910) was a renowned educator and founder and principal of the Gunston Hall School for young women in Washington, D.C. Mason was a great-grandson of George Mason, author of the Virginia Bill of Rights.\n\nMason was born at Okeley Manor in Fairfax County, Virginia on 1 September 1834. He was a son of Dr. Richard Chichester Mason and his wife Lucy Bolling Randolph.\n\nAt the onset of the American Civil War, Mason volunteered as a private in the Black Horse Cavalry of Fauquier County, Virginia. Soon afterward, Mason was detailed to act as commissary sergeant. Mason also efficiently supplied food to his command. He gained a captain's commission in the 4th Virginia Cavalry, and later a major's rank as assistant commissary in Fitzhugh Lee's division, where he was universally beloved and respected. Mason was made quartermaster in 1864.\n\nA the close of the war, Major Mason engaged in business and as soon as the opportunity presented itself, he took up the profession of teaching. For a period of time after the war, Mason taught at the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York. Afterward, he returned Virginia, where in 1875, he married Elizabeth \"Bettie\" Harrison Nelson of Albemarle County. Mason then taught as a teacher in mathematics and Latin at the Norwood Institute.\n\nMason and his wife relocated to Washington, D.C. where they both engaged in teaching and founded a school for young ladies known as the Gunston Hall School, named for the homestead of his great-grandfather George Mason. Gunston Hall School was located at 3017 O Street, N.W. in a large yellow Georgetown mansion that was the former residence of Commodore Stephen Cassin, built in the early 19th century. Mason and his wife opened their school in the mansion in 1893 for their children and the children of their intimate friends. In 1905, Mason moved Gunston Hall School to a Colonial edifice at 1906 Florida Avenue near 19th and T Streets, N.W.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" hailed Mason's Gunston Hall School as the \"foremost among Washington's institutions for the education of girls and young ladies.\" Gunston Hall School continued as a flourishing boarding school for young women for 50 years. After its closure, the building housed Epiphany School, an Episcopal institution. The building is currently the home of the National Museum of American Jewish Military History. Mason's character impressed itself upon his students and his influence among them was widely felt and acknowledged by the students of successive years.\n\nMason married Elizabeth \"Bettie\" Harrison Nelson, daughter of Keating Lewis Simmons Nelson and his wife Julia Ann Rogers, at St. Stephen's Church on 18 August 1875. The couple had six children:\n\n\nMason died on 22 April 1910 in Washington, D.C. at age 75. His funeral, which took place on Sunday afternoon, 24 April, at St. Margaret's Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C., was largely attended by his friends and pupils. Mason was interred after 24 April 1910 at Ivy Hill Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia. In honor of their eminent comrade, the Robert E. Lee Camp of Confederate Veterans of Alexandria attended his burial in uniform. The Reverend Herbert Scott Smith and the Reverend Samuel A. Wallis conducted his services.\n"}
{"id": "38828264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38828264", "title": "Borel &amp; Co.", "text": "Borel &amp; Co.\n\nThe Borel & Co. building is a small, two story, granite-faced, steel frame building at 440 Montgomery in San Francisco, California. The city designated it San Francisco Landmark number 109 on April 6, 1980.\n\nThe Borel Company Building was commissioned by Switzerland born banker and diplomat, Antoine Borel. Although he generally thought of as a commercial bank, the type of service offered was more closely related to investment services. Borel held directorates in the California-Oregon Power Company, the Los Angeles Railroad, The Spring Valley Water Company, and the Bank of California. In 1884, Borel organized a syndicate to purchase the California Street Cable Car line which had been in operation since 1878. It was largely through Borel's efforts that the company expanded its operations by construction of the Hyde Street Line.\n\nThe building was designed by Albert Pissis, It exemplifies the Beaux Arts architecture commercial classicism strongly evident in the reconstruction of downtown San Francisco following the 1906 earthquake and fire.\nThe Corinthian façade begins the colonnaded parade of temple banks that runs northward from Montgomery Street to Columbus Avenue. The building is only 27.5 feet wide, and while this narrow façade offered less opportunity for innovation than would a larger street frontage, it demanded greater innovation to achieve architectural excellence.\n"}
{"id": "35828623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35828623", "title": "Business reporting", "text": "Business reporting\n\nBusiness reporting or enterprise reporting refers to both \"the public reporting of operating and financial data by a business enterprise,\" and \"the regular provision of information to decision-makers within an organization to support them in their work.\" It is a fundamental part of the larger movement towards improved business intelligence and knowledge management. Implementation often involves extract, transform, and load (ETL) procedures in coordination with a data warehouse and then using one or more reporting tools. Reports can be distributed in print form, via email or accessed via a corporate intranet.\n\nWith the expansion of information technology there has been an increase in the production of unified reports which join different views of an organization in one place. This reporting process involves querying data sources with different logical models to produce a human readable report. For example, a decision maker may need to query a human resources databases and a capital improvements databases to show how efficiently space is being used across an entire corporation.\n\nReporting can also be used for verification and cross-checks. Audit teams like FINRA and SEC adhere to reports for all business firms. Standard Business Reporting is a group of international programs instigated by a number of governments with the end of make business the centre when it comes to managing business-to-government reporting obligations.\n\n"}
{"id": "58034916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58034916", "title": "CUNY School of Labor and Urban Studies", "text": "CUNY School of Labor and Urban Studies\n\nCUNY School of Labor and Urban Studies (also known as SLU) is a public undergraduate, graduate, and professional school in New York City associated with the City University of New York system. Founded in 2018 as an outgrowth of the Joseph S. Murphy Institute for Worker Education and Labor Studies, the Murphy Institute is now one of incorporated programs at the School of Labor and Urban Studies, which provides undergraduate and graduate degrees in Labor Studies and Urban Studies, as well as certificate programs and workforce development for members of labor unions.\n\nThe CUNY School of Labor and Urban Studies was established in 2018 as an outgrowth of the Joseph S. Murphy Institute for Worker Education and Labor Studies, otherwise known as The Murphy Institute. The Murphy Institute was first established in 1984 at Queens College in collaboration with three New York City labor unions for the purposes of providing worker education to labor union members. In 2005, the Murphy Institute was incorporated into CUNY's School of Professional Studies, expanding to provide undergraduate and graduate degrees.\n\nThough New York labor unions had been petitioning for the Murphy Institute to become its own stand-alone school since 2012, when the New York State AFL-CIO passed a resolution endorsing the proposal, it was only until Governor Andrew Cuomo added $1.5 million to the state budget in 2018 that funding was available.\n\nAs of 2018, CUNY School of Labor and Urban Studies employs fifteen faculty, some of whom have shared appointments with other universities in the CUNY system. Among the faculty include:\n\n"}
{"id": "22980432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22980432", "title": "Commissioning management systems", "text": "Commissioning management systems\n\nCommissioning is the process of assuring that all systems and components of a building or industrial plant are designed, installed, tested, operated, and maintained according to the operational requirements of the owner or final client.\n\nFor large projects, this process usually comprises planning, execution, and control of hundreds of thousands of inspection and test activities on “commissionable objects”, such as instruments, equipment, skids, modules, circuits, loops, subsystems, and systems. In this case, the large volume and complexity of commissioning data, and the need to guarantee information traceability, normally require the use of powerful IT tools, known as commissioning management systems or completion management systems.\n\nAlthough these systems allow effective planning and monitoring of commissioning activities, as well as logging of all evidences necessary to the process they are not without a cost, as annual, monthly or per user licence fees and can typically range from upwards of 10000 USD/year to 5 USD/day/user. The design of these systems can also vary greatly, from rich native applications that need to be installed on a computer to lightweight web-based systems that can be accessed from any web browser or mobile solutions that only require a smartphone to access the relevant information. Choosing one of these solutions is entirely dependent on the needs of the project and its users due to specific benefits and drawbacks from choosing either.\n\n"}
{"id": "9594855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594855", "title": "Custom online panel", "text": "Custom online panel\n\nA custom online panel or Internet access panel is a group of pre-screened respondents who have expressed a willingness to participate in surveys and/or customer feedback sessions. The custom online panel is also known as a customer advisory panel, proprietary panel or an online research panel. Respondents become \"panelists\" by completing a profiling questionnaire. The data collected includes demographics, lifestyle characteristics and media habits, which provides a basis for future survey participation.\n\nA panel can range in size from 100 to 100,000 or more people. Larger panels can enable surveys of smaller target groups. Panel quality is not determined solely by size, however, and how panel members have been sourced is also important. \n\nPanels can provide a dedicated group that market researchers can engage with and learn from over time. At a moment’s notice researchers can investigate the attitudes, behaviour and opinions of existing or potential customers using interactive surveys, discussion forums and 3D retail environments. Plus, results are available instantly and responses can be tracked over time.\n\nPanels are a growing phenomenon in the market research industry. They bridge the gap between a population that is reluctant to cooperate with telephone surveys and the organizations that need to know their perceptions and attitudes more than ever before.\n\nA specialized form of online panels typically known as Expert Networks are used by investment funds and consulting firms to collect information as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "9627438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9627438", "title": "Daedeok Science Town", "text": "Daedeok Science Town\n\nDaedeok Innopolis, formerly known as Daedeok Science Town, is the research and development district in the Yuseong-gu district in Daejeon, South Korea. Daedeok Innopolis grew out of the research cluster established by President Park Chunghee in 1973 with the opening of the KAIST. Over 20 major research institutes and over 40 corporate research centers make up this science cluster. Over the last few years, a number of IT venture companies have sprung up in this region, which has a high concentration of Ph.Ds in the applied sciences. There are 232 research and educational institutions to be found in Daejeon, many in the Daedeok region, among them the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute and the Korea Aerospace Research Institute. The \"town\" will provide a core for the International Science and Business Belt.\n\nThe Daedeok Innopolis logo was created by the industrial design company INNO Design in Palo Alto, USA. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13904687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13904687", "title": "Discovery Children's Museum", "text": "Discovery Children's Museum\n\nThe DISCOVERY Children's Museum (LDCM) is a facility located in Las Vegas, Nevada. Formerly known as Lied Discovery Children museum, this three-story children’s museum is located adjacent to The Smith Center in Downtown Las Vegas.\n\"The mission of DISCOVERY Children’s Museum is to provide a vibrant and engaging experience, through exhibits and programs, where children from economically and culturally diverse backgrounds participate in playful learning experiences that ignite a love of lifelong learning.\"\n"}
{"id": "9718758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9718758", "title": "Downtown Baltimore", "text": "Downtown Baltimore\n\nDowntown Baltimore is the central business district of Baltimore traditionally bounded by Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard to the west, Mt. Royal Avenue to the north, President Street to the east and the Inner Harbor area to the south. It consists of five neighborhoods: Westside, Mount Vernon, City Centre, Inner Harbor, and Camden Yards.\n\nIn 1904, downtown Baltimore was almost destroyed by a huge fire with damages estimated at $150 million. Since the City of Baltimore was chartered in 1796, this downtown nucleus has been the focal point of business in the Baltimore metropolitan area. It has also increasingly become a heavily populated neighborhood with over 37,000 residents and new condominiums and apartment homes being built steadily.\n\nCity Center is the historic financial district in Baltimore that has increasingly shifted eastward and into the Inner Harbor. Hundreds of businesses are found here, and it remains the center of life in Baltimore. The area is home to the majority of Baltimore's skyscrapers including the Bank of America building, the M&T Bank Building, the Transamerica Tower, the Baltimore World Trade Center, the old IBM building, and the massive Charles Center district. It includes historic Charles Street as well as significant avenues of commercial and cultural activity along Pratt Street, east to west, and St. Paul Street-Calvert Street, north to south.\n\nThe Inner Harbor is the chief commercial and tourist destination in Baltimore, The Inner Harbor features a large number of restaurants, hotels, retail areas (such as Harborplace), and entertainment (such as Power Plant Live!). It was named by \"National Geographic\" as one of the best summer trips in 2012 (along with all of Baltimore in general). The Inner Harbor is also home to a variety of museums and scientific institutions such as the Maryland Science Center, the National Aquarium in Baltimore, the Reginald F. Lewis Museum of Maryland African American History & Culture, the Flag House & Star-Spangled Banner Museum, Port Discovery children's museum, and Living Classroom environmental education centers. Like much of Baltimore, the area features historic, often industrial, buildings from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries that have been repurposed for modern industry and residences, including the Pratt Street Power Plant which was built in 1900 and now hosts a Barnes & Noble bookstore, the Baltimore Hard Rock Cafe, and other retail tenants.\nWestside Baltimore is the western portion of downtown Baltimore that includes Market Center and many of the newest developments in downtown Baltimore, including the Baltimore Convention Center. It is also home to the site of the \"Superblock\" project that will include hundreds of condos and apartments as well as a variety of retail and commercial space. The former home of Baltimore's many and famed department stores, Westside Baltimore is now anchored by the University of Maryland, Baltimore consisting of the University of Maryland Health System, University of Maryland School of Law and the University of Maryland Biopark. The Westside is also home to several performing arts centers, including the Hippodrome Theatre, Royal Farms Arena, and the Everyman Theatre. G. Krug & Son Ironworks and Museum, in its original location, is the oldest continually operating blacksmith shop in the United States as well as a museum.\n\nThe former home of famed American writer Edgar Allan Poe is located at the Edgar Allan Poe House and Museum, a few blocks northwest from his grave at the intersection of Greene and Fayette streets. Nearby is the historic Lexington Market, one of the longest-running markets in the world, having been founded in 1782 and in continual operation since, selling a variety of prepared foods and groceries.\n\nMount Vernon, also known as the cultural district, is a high-density area known for its attractive nightlife, buoyed by its large amount of bars, clubs and lounges and its historic multi-story townhomes (most of which have been transformed into apartments) and traditional apartment buildings. Mount Vernon features the Joseph Meyerhoff Symphony Hall, home of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, as well as the Lyric Opera House. The world-renowned Peabody Institute is also located in Mount Vernon adjacent to the Walters Art Museum. To the very north is Penn Station, which offers Amtrak service to several U.S. major cities as well as MARC service to Washington, D.C. A major north-south avenue in Mount Vernon is Cathedral Street, named for the National Shrine of the Assumption, the first Catholic cathedral built in the United States, which is also considered the masterpiece of Benjamin Henry Latrobe, the \"father of American architecture\" and famed creator of the U.S. Capitol.\n\nDowntown Baltimore also contains Camden Yards, which includes the well-known home of the Baltimore Orioles, Oriole Park at Camden Yards, and M&T Bank Stadium, home of the Baltimore Ravens. Nearby are the Sports Legends Museum at Camden Yards, the now-closed Geppi's Entertainment Museum, and the Babe Ruth Birthplace Museum.\n\nDowntown Baltimore offers many options for transportation, including subway, light rail, bus service, Amtrak, MARC Train service through Penn Station and Camden Station as well as access to I-83, I-695, I-95, 295, and 395.\n\n"}
{"id": "5390252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390252", "title": "Executive search", "text": "Executive search\n\nExecutive search (informally called headhunting) is a specialized recruitment service which organizations pay to seek out and recruit highly qualified candidates for senior-level and executive jobs (e.g., President, Vice-president, CEO). Headhunters may also seek out and recruit other highly specialized and/or skilled positions in organizations for which there is strong competition in the job market for the top talent, such as senior data analysts or computer programmers. The method usually involves commissioning a third-party organization, typically an executive search firm, but possibly a standalone consultant or consulting firm, to research the availability of suitable qualified candidates working for competitors or related businesses or organizations. Having identified a shortlist of qualified candidates who match the client's requirements, the executive search firm may act as an intermediary to contact the individual(s) and see if they might be interested in moving to a new employer. The executive search firm may also carry out initial screening of the candidate, negotiations on remuneration and benefits, and preparing the employment contract.\n\nAn executive search firm is a type of professional service firm that specializes in recruiting executives and other senior personnel for their client companies in various industries. Executive search agents/professionals typically have a wide range of personal contacts in their industry or field of specialty; detailed, specific knowledge of the area; and typically operate at the most senior level of executive positions. Executive search professionals are also involved throughout the hiring process, conducting detailed interviews and presenting candidates to clients selectively, when they feel the candidate meets all stated requirements and would fit into the culture of the hiring firm. Executive search firms typically have long-lasting relationships with clients spanning many years, and in such cases the suitability of candidates is paramount. It is also important that such firms operate with a high level of professionalism and confidentiality.\n\nWhen corporate entities elect to use an outside executive search firm, it is usually because they lack the internal research resources, professional networks, or evaluative skills to properly recruit for themselves. Using an outside firm also allows the corporate entity the freedom of recruiting from competitors without doing so directly, and the ability to choose among candidates that would not be available through internal or passive sourcing methodologies. Executive search firms are national and international. Many specialize in a particular business industry sector. The contractual relationship between client and executive search firm falls into two broad categories: contingent and retained. Contingent recruiters are paid only upon the successful completion of the \"search assignment\". Retained recruiters are paid for the process, typically earning a recruiting fee in three stages based on the anticipated compensation of the executive.\n\nIn 1959 the Association of Executive Search and Leadership Consultants (AESC) emerged to set the standards of quality and ethics for the executive search consulting trade. AESC Members range in size from large global firms and networks to boutique firms spanning more than 70 countries.\n\nHigh-end executive search firms get a retainer (up-front fee) to perform a specific search for a corporate officer or other senior executive position. Typically, retained searches tend to be for positions that pay upwards of US$150,000 and often far more. Search fees are typically 33.33% of the annual compensation of the recruited executive. Fee payments may be made in thirds, 1/3 of fee paid on initiation of the search, 1/3 paid thirty days later, and the final 1/3 paid thirty days later or upon placement of the candidate. Alternatively, a fixed fee may be established. \n\nRetained search firms provide a guarantee to do an assignment over if the hired candidate leaves before a stated milestone (anywhere from one year to three years), generally with the caveat there has not been a material change in the position requirements or management team. In a retained search, the fee is for the time and expertise of the search firm. The firm is employed to conduct the entire recruitment effort from startup until the candidate has started working. There are many considerations taken into account when organizations determine whether to hire a retained or other type of search firm, including time and financial resources available, goals of the position search (such as diversity factors), and the importance of discretion and confidentiality.\n\nRetained recruiters work for the organizations who are their clients, not for job candidates seeking employment, in some countries, such as the UK, recruiters are not legally permitted to charge candidates. In the U.S. job candidates may pay an up front retainer to a consulting or career counseling firms to assist them in their job search. Search firms generally commit to \"off-limits\" agreements. These agreements prevent a firm from approaching employees of their \"current\" clients as candidates for other clients (for instance, if a headhunter recruits the new CEO into Boeing, they will agree not to recommend Boeing executives to other companies). Since they act as management consultants working in the best interests of the clients for whom they conduct searches, it would be counterproductive to simultaneously remove talented executives from those client companies. Search firms may decline assignments from certain companies, in order to preserve their ability to recruit candidates from those companies. Some large search firms may insist on guarantees of a certain number or dollar value of searches before they will put an entire company \"off-limits\".\n\nAnother form of high-end executive search, delimited or engaged search, is often improperly categorized as retained search, although there are distinct differences. Similar to retained search firms, delimited/engaged search firms require an up-front fee before engaging the search. Unlike a conventional retainer, however, the delimited/engaged search commitment fee is refundable if the recruiter fails to achieve a hire or other deliverable specified in the contract. Moreover, the delimited/engaged search commitment fee does not follow the typical 1/3, 1/3, 1/3 model of retainers, but rather is a relatively small up-front fee which is discounted from the final placement fee of 25–35% of the successful candidate's first year compensation. Both retained and delimited/engaged searches involve partial payment prior to filling the job, and the contracted recruiter has the search exclusively. Therefore, the search can be customized to the client organization's needs, with the search professional providing a consultative service throughout the process. While both retained and delimited/engaged searches serve client employers rather than job-seeking executives, delimited/engaged search contracts always (as opposed to sometimes) state a future date when the project must be completed or the downpayment refunded.\n\nAs stated, contingent search firms are remunerated only upon the successful completion of the search—typically when the candidate accepts the position. These recruiters may earn 20% to 35% of the candidate's first-year base salary or total remuneration as a hiring fee; the fee may also be calculated to include the candidate's (that is, the successful hire's) median or expected first-year bonus payout. In any case, the fee is (as always) paid by the hiring company, not the candidate/hire. Contingent firms in some of the emerging markets may quote fees in the range of 12% to 20% as well.\n\nClients (companies seeking to hire) often tend to work with contingent search firms when filling mid-level positions. As contingent search firms generally rely heavily on their contacts, and seldom work on an exclusive basis, it is not rare for a client to work with a large number of contingent recruiters on the same search at the same time, in order to maximize the volume of candidate (job seeker) resumes they receive. Beyond the increased volume of candidates that such an approach allows, contingent firms do not get paid until the placement is made (a candidate is successfully hired), and thus the search risk is shifted almost entirely to the search firms. Moreover, contingent search firms often work with clients on higher percentage fee basis, relative to retained and delimited search firms as they shoulder more risk. For senior level roles, clients often prefer to work with recruiters who have performed well in the past for them and usually will end up in the hands of a retained or delimited recruiter. By working exclusively with one firm on such searches, the client generally develops a much deeper relationship with the recruiter, and receives a much higher level of service. With all methods, retained, delimited, and contingency, clients rely on search professionals to provide not just resumes, but also insightful, consultative information about the market in general.\n\nA delimited search is often preferred by clients who are seeking a retainer-style service level, while not willing to accept the level of risk that retained search entails. While delimited search does entail up-front fees, they tend to be much smaller than total pre-placement fees that retained search entails. Moreover, delimited search professionals shoulder the risk of their own failure to execute the search within a specified time-frame, offering to refund the up-front fees in such an event. While delimited search is not as desirable for searches that are open-ended in nature, the \"ticking clock\" is often seen by clients as an incentive that motivates delimited search recruiters to stay more active and involved throughout the hiring process.\n\n"}
{"id": "35903716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35903716", "title": "Florida Small Business Development Center Network", "text": "Florida Small Business Development Center Network\n\nThe Florida SBDC Network provides tools, training and resources to small businesses, and has more than 40 offices.\n\nThe FSBDC was founded in 1976. The FSBDC was started at the University of West Florida as one of the eight original state-based Small Business Development Center pilots funded by the U.S. Small Business Administration. Other participating schools in the program were California State Polytechnic University at Pomona, California State University at Chico, The University of Georgia, University of Missouri, the University of Nebraska at Omaha, Rutgers University and the University of Southern Maine. The schools were chosen based on their pre-existing efforts to further the business community in their areas.\n\nThe goal of these SBDC pilots was to link the state’s higher education system to community outreach, specifically to aid in the development and education of Florida's entrepreneurs and small business community. Today, the FSBDC is one of the 63 SBA funded SBDC programs. These SBDC programs are located in every state and US territory.\n\nThe FSBDC began with two centers in its first year of operation. It has since grown to a statewide network of over 35 centers. These centers are partnered with universities, colleges, and other economic organizations. Additionally, they have over 60 outreach locations to provide entrepreneurial services on an as-needed basis in rural and outlying areas.\n\nThe FSBDC is state designated as Florida’s Principal Provider of Business Assistance and is the only statewide provider of entrepreneurial services in Florida.\n\nThe Florida SBDC Network is funded in part by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), Defense Logistics Agency, State of Florida and other private and public partners, with the University of West Florida serving as the Network’s designated lead host institution. The Florida SBDC Network is nationally accredited by the Association of SBDCs.\n\nThe Florida SBDC’s primary services:\n\nServices include:\n\nFlorida SBDCs serve the needs of organizations that meet the definition of a small business. The FSBDCN separates small businesses into four markets: pre-venture individuals, start-up businesses, micro businesses, and small and medium-sized enterprises.\n\n\nThe FSBDC has been designated by the state of Florida as the principal provider of business assistance in the state. The FSBDC is accredited by the National Association of Small Business Development Centers, based on the Malcolm Balrige Performance Quality Standards.\n\nAdditionally, the FSBDC requires all businesses consultants to undergo training to be certified as a business analyst for the organization. Consultants are chosen based on their education and business experience. These Certified Business Analysts (CBAs) are also required to attend training sessions to renew their certification every three years.\n\nIn 2015, the initiatives of the Florida SBDC Network resulted in 32,398 jobs created, retained and saved; $4.8 billion in sales growth; $276.8 million in capital accessed; $301 million in government contract awards; and 404 new businesses started.\n\nA recent independent survey, the Economic Impact of the SBDC Business Development Activities on the Florida Economy, the Florida SBDC Network returns $41.07 to the state economy for every $1 invested. In the past year, the Network was able to help create, retain, or save 43,856 at an average cost of $118.51, a number well below comparable economic organizations.\n\nThe State Office was established in Pensacola after one of the eight original SBDC pilots were started at the University of West Florida (UWF). UWF is the lead host institution in the Florida SBDC Network. While each SBDC must report to its host institution, all centers must report to the State Office in Pensacola. \nThe State Office is responsible for all programmatic activities and financial reporting to partners. The State Office works directly with all funding partners to ensure each of the offices in Florida are properly allocating the funding given to them.\n\nUWF has primary responsibility for administering the Florida SBDC Network Program and providing leadership, administrative services, and coordination with the SBA through the Cooperative Agreement.\n"}
{"id": "582796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582796", "title": "Fractional CIO", "text": "Fractional CIO\n\nAccording to PC Magazine, the Chief Information Officer, or CIO, is defined as the executive officer in charge of information processing in an organization. All systems design, development and datacenter operations fall under CIO jurisdiction. CIOs have demanding jobs as information systems in an organization are often taken for granted until something breaks down. The CIO is responsible for explaining to executive management the complex nightmare this industry has gotten itself into over the past 40 years and why equipment must be constantly retrofitted or replaced. Justifying new expenditures can be a difficult part of the job.\n\nIncreasingly, CIOs are involved in creating business and e-business opportunities through information technology. Collaborating with other executives, CIOs are often working at the core of business development within the organization.\n\nFractional CIO's differ from traditional CIO's in that they serve as a working member of a company's executive management team as a contractor and may-or-may-not serve on the company's board of directors. \n\nA Fractional CIO, also known as a Part-Time CIO, Parachute CIO, or CIO on-demand is an experienced, multi-faceted professional who serves as the part-time chief information officer of a small or medium-sized business that otherwise could not afford or would not need a full-time executive to hold the position of chief information officer. A Virtual CIO or vCIO may have a similar role but the term virtual suggests that the individual is not present in the organisation on the same basis as an employed executive. An Interim CIO is generally retained for a limited time period, often to oversee a specific project or to cover an interregnum. As with traditional CIO's, a Fractional CIO often helps with Technology Roadmaps, Business Process Improvements, and Business Technology Strategy. \n\nThe key business benefit of retaining a Fractional CIO is that they provide the same expertise and capability of a full-time CIO without the associated level of overhead and benefits associated with adding another top level executive. Care, however, must be taken to ensure the skills of the fractional CIO align primarily with the needs of the business, and not weighted with technical expertise in order to achieve the best results.\n\nFractional CIOs typically serve several companies and may-or-may-not engage in the day-to-day management of a company's IT staff or other resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "30622766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30622766", "title": "Franco-Thai Chamber of Commerce", "text": "Franco-Thai Chamber of Commerce\n\nFounded in 1966 by French entrepreneurs, the Franco-Thai Chamber of Commerce (FTCC) is today one of the most dynamic European chambers in Thailand with over 315 members, with business interests in France and Thailand, and more than 60 events organized every year.\n\nThe FTCC is a non-profit organization affiliated to CCI France International, a strong network of 113 French bilateral Chambers in 83 Countries with 900 permanent staff and 27 000 members.\n\nThe FTCC offers a wide network, allowing entrepreneurs and companies to successfully approach the market and build longlasting trade relationships for efficient and fruitful business development. The Chamber is also working in collaboration with other trade-related French institutions such as the French Embassy, Economic and Commercial Department or the Foreign Trade Advisors (“\"CCE\"”).\n\nThe FTCC fourfold mission is:\n\nWith more than 50 events organized per year, the FTCC creates opportunities for companies to extend their professional network and to keep updated on the latest developments regarding the economy, legal issues, HR topics etc.\n\nFTCC events are as varied as possible in order to address the needs of its different categories of Members. They range from monthly networking cocktails, Young Professional social evenings, seminars, committee workshops, special events (its prestigious Gala Dinner, \"\"Bonjour French Fair\", \"Bonjour Talents\": Brand&Career Fair, etc.) to Business matchings (\"Forum Travailler Ensemble\") and Business delegations to neighboring countries.\n\nThe FTCC is active in defending the interests of its Members through its working Committees (Franco-Thai Relations, Human Resources, Legal Affairs, Luxury and Lifestyle, etc.). These allow Members from one sector to discuss issues of common interest. Position papers might be raised by the FTCC via a specific decision procedure or channeled to the European or International Investors' level in Thailand respectively through the EABC (European Association for Business and Commerce), the JFCCT (Joint Foreign Chambers of Commerce in Thailand) or the BOT (Board of Trade) of which the FTCC is an active member. These institutions are well connected to the Thai authorities policy makers and key stakeholders.\n\nFor instance, the JFCCT represents 28 Thai-Foreign Chambers gathering 8,000 companies and the EABC represents 16 European trade organizations and currently features 9 working groups. To double this action, the FTCC's Franco-Thai relations committees regularly organizes high level meetings with Thai and French Officials (Board of Investment, Ministers, etc.) to voice the position of its Members.\n\nFTCC's Business Support department, in coordination with its wide network of partners in Thailand and in France, provides assistance to French companies in every step of their commercial development in Thailand:\n\nThe FTCC in conjunction with the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, offers a HR Support service. The FTCC assists French nationals in their job search through specific workshops, promotes French trainees for internships in Thailand, provides information on the local labor market and promotes job vacancies on the FTCC website. FTCC also provides HR related information, organizes workshops, and animates a dynamic HR Club for professionals wishing to debate on HR issues.\n\nThe FTCC Business Support (TH) department aims at helping Thai companies to develop business with France, in collaboration with French partners. This includes providing information (standards, regulations, distribution channels) to Thai companies aiming at developing exports or setting up company in France. The FTCC also provides assistance in organizing individual or collective trade mission, arranging programs of meetings in France, and organizing business study tours.\n\nAfter the success of SCRIPT, the EU-funded project to certify Thai organic silk and Thai natural spa products and services, the FTCC has engaged in the new project called \"Policy Dialogues Support Facility (PDSF)\"\" to further advance Thailand's cooperation with the EU towards achievement of sustainable economic and social development goals and global integration.\n\nThe PDSF, started on 15 August 2013, will end on 15 February 2017. It is implemented by a consortium composed of GOPA Consultants, Development Solutions, Sustainable Development Association and the Franco-Thai Chamber of Commerce. The program of €3.75 million (THB 150 million) will provide support for activities of mutual benefit to Thailand and the European Union in areas such as trade and investment, higher education and science and technology, environment, climate change and good governance.\n\nSince 1990, the FTCC, as a partner among the 56 offices of Promosalons around the world, has continuously assisted Thai exhibitors and visitors to attend French trade fairs. It promotes more than 10 fairs every year, in France and in Asia, covering various sectors ranging from food, fashion, home decoration, to heavy industries like composite material and environment. Promosalons has provided its services to an ever-growing number of 2,000 Thai visitors and exhibitors per year.\n"}
{"id": "2465034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465034", "title": "George Washington Parke Custis", "text": "George Washington Parke Custis\n\nGeorge Washington Parke Custis (April 30, 1781 – October 10, 1857) was a Virginia plantation owner, antiquarian, author, and playwright. The grandson of Martha Washington and step-grandson and adopted son of George Washington, he and his sister Eleanor grew up at Mount Vernon and in the Washington presidential households. \n\nUpon reaching age 21, Custis inherited a large fortune from his late father, John Parke Custis, including a plantation in what is now Arlington, Virginia. High atop a hill overlooking the Potomac River and Washington, D.C., he built the Greek Revival mansion Arlington House (1803-18), as a shrine to George Washington. There he preserved and displayed many of Washington's belongings. Custis wrote historical plays about Virginia, delivered a number of patriotic addresses, and was the author of the posthumously-published \"Recollections and Private Memoirs of George Washington\" (1860).\n\nHis daughter, Mary Anna Randolph Custis, married Robert E. Lee. They inherited Arlington House and the plantation surrounding it, but the property was confiscated by the federal government during the Civil War. Arlington House is now a museum, interpreted by the National Park Service as the Robert E. Lee Memorial. The remainder of Arlington plantation is now Fort Myer and Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nCustis was born on April 30, 1781, at his mother's family home, Mount Airy, which survives in Rosaryville State Park in Prince George's County, Maryland. He initially lived with his parents John Parke Custis and Eleanor Calvert Custis, and his sisters Elizabeth Parke Custis, Martha Parke Custis and Nelly Custis, at Abingdon Plantation (part of which is now Ronald Reagan National Airport, in Arlington County), which his father had purchased in 1778. However, six months after Custis's birth, his father died of \"camp fever\" at Yorktown, Virginia, shortly after the British army surrendered there.\n\nCustis's grandmother, Martha Dandridge Custis Washington, had been widowed in 1757, and married George Washington in January 1759. His father had grown up at Mount Vernon. Following John Parke Custis's death, George Washington adopted Custis; Custis and his sister Nelly then grew up at Mount Vernon. Custis's two oldest sisters, Elizabeth and Martha, remained at Abingdon with their widowed mother, who in 1783 married Dr. David Stuart, an Alexandria physician and associate of George Washington.\n\nThe Washingtons brought Custis and Nelly, 8 and 10 years old, respectively, to New York City in 1789, to live in the first and second presidential mansions. Following the transfer of the national capital to Philadelphia, the original \"First Family\" occupied the President's House from 1790 to 1797.\n\nCustis (nicknamed \"Wash\") attended—but did not graduate from—Germantown Academy in Germantown (now in Philadelphia), Pennsylvania; the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University); and St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland. George Washington repeatedly expressed frustration with young Custis, as well as his own inability to improve the youth's attitude. Upon young Custis's return to Mount Vernon after only one term at St. John's, George Washington sent him to his mother and stepfather (Dr. David Stuart) at Hope Park, writing \"He appears to me to be moped and Stupid, says nothing, and is always in some hole or corner excluded from the Company.\"\n\nIn January 1799, Custis was commissioned as a cornet in the United States Army and was promoted to second lieutenant in March. He served as \"aide-de-camp\" to General Charles Cotesworth Pinckney and was honorably discharged on June 15, 1800.\n\nWhen Custis came of age, he inherited large amounts of money, land, and property from the estates of his father, John Parke Custis, and grandfather Daniel Parke Custis. Upon Martha Washington's death in 1802, he received a bequest from her (as he had upon George Washington's death in 1799) as well as his father's former plantations because of the termination of Martha's life estate. However, Martha's executor, Bushrod Washington, refused to sell to Custis the Mount Vernon estate on which Custis had been living and which Bushrod Washington (George Washington's nephew) had inherited. Custis thereupon moved into a four-room, 80-year-old house on land inherited from his father, who had called it \"Mount Washington\".\n\nAlmost immediately, Custis began constructing Arlington House on his land, which at the time was within Alexandria County (now Arlington County) in the District of Columbia. Hiring George Hadfield as architect, he constructed a mansion that was the first example of Greek Revival architecture in America. He located the building on a prominent hill overlooking the Georgetown-Alexandria Turnpike (at the approximate location of the present Eisenhower Drive in Arlington National Cemetery), the Potomac River, and the growing Washington City on the opposite side of the river.\n\nUsing slave labor and materials on site, and interrupted by the War of 1812 (and material shortages after the British burned the American capital city), Custis finally completed the mansion's exterior in 1818. Custis intended the mansion to serve as a living memorial to George Washington, and included design elements similar to Mt. Vernon's. He then gained a reputation for inviting many guests for various celebrations and social events at the mansion, where he displayed relics from Mt. Vernon, although the interior was not completed (and renovated) until occupancy by Robert E. Lee's family (including Custis's grandsons/heirs) in the 1850s.\n\nIn 1802, the Washington Jockey Club sought a site for a new race course, as its old site—which occupied land from the rear of what is now the site of Decatur House at H Street and Jackson Place, across Seventeenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, to Twentieth Street, where the Eisenhower Executive Office Building sits today—was suffering encroachment from the growth of the Federal City. Under the leadership of John Tayloe III and Charles Carnan Ridgely, and with the support of Custis, Gen. John Peter Van Ness, Dr. William Thornton, John D. Threlkeld of Georgetown and George Calvert of Riversdale, Bladensburg, Maryland, the races were moved to Holmstead Farm's one-mile oval track on Meridian Hill, south of Columbia Road, between Fourteenth and Sixteenth streets.\n\nOn July 7, 1804, Custis married Mary Lee Fitzhugh. Of their four children, only one daughter, Mary Anna Randolph Custis, survived to maturity. She married Robert E. Lee at Arlington House on June 30, 1831. Lee's father, Henry Lee III (Light-Horse Harry Lee) had delivered the eulogy at George Washington's December 18, 1799, funeral.\n\nDuring the War of 1812, Custis assisted in the firing of an artillery piece to help defend Washington, D.C., from the British during the Battle of Bladensburg. He also delivered and published an address condemning the death of Revolutionary War general James Lingan who was killed by a Baltimore mob for defending an anti-war publisher's right to oppose the war.\n\nIn 1815, Custis was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society.\n\nDuring the 1820s, Custis was an active member of the American Colonization Society—an organization that supported the colonization of free blacks in Africa, particularly in Liberia. Custis eventually lost interest in the Society, but his wife and daughter continued to support it for many years. Colonization was generally unpopular with African American slaves. Of the Arlington slaves, only William Burke and his family chose to move to Liberia. In 1854, William and Rosabella Burke and their children left Arlington House for Monrovia, Liberia. Rosabella continued to write to Mrs. Lee and named a new daughter \"Martha\" in tribute to the family.\n\nOne biographer claimed Lafayette and his son Georges Washington de La Fayette visited Custis at Mount Vernon in 1825, although Custis was then living at Arlington House.\n\nIn 1846, the federal government retroceded to the state of Virginia the portion of the District of Columbia that was south and west of the Potomac River, which at the time contained the city and county of Alexandria. Custis initially opposed the retrocession, but later spoke in support of it. Alexandrians then elected Custis to represent the area in the Virginia General Assembly when the legislature considered the retrocession. The General Assembly approved the retrocession on March 13, 1847.\nOn July 4, 1848, Custis attended the ceremony celebrating the laying of the cornerstone of the Washington Monument by Freemasons. Along with President James K. Polk, the ceremony attracted 20,000 other spectators. On July 4, 1850, Custis dedicated a stone that the people of the District of Columbia had donated to the Monument at a ceremony that President Zachary Taylor attended, five days before Taylor died from food poisoning.\n\nIn 1853, the writer Benson John Lossing visited Custis at Arlington House.\n\nCustis achieved some distinction as an orator and playwright. In addition to the Lingan eulogy, he delivered \"The Celebration of the Russian Victories, in Georgetown, District of Columbia; on the 5th of June, 1813\" (1813). Two of Custis's plays, \"The Indian Prophecy; or Visions of Glory\" (1827) and \"Pocahontas; or, The Settlers of Virginia\" (1830), were published during his lifetime. Other plays included \"The Rail Road\" (1828), \"The Eighth of January, or, Hurra for the Boys of the West!\" (ca. 1830), \"North Point, or, Baltimore Defended\" (1833), and \"Montgomerie, or, The Orphan of a Wreck\" (1836). Custis wrote a series of biographical essays about his adoptive father that were compiled and posthumously published in 1859 and 1860, after his own death in 1857, as \"Recollections and Private Memoirs of Washington\".\n\nCustis was descended from a number of aristocratic colonial era families, as well as, through his mother Eleanor Calvert Custis Stuart, British nobility and, very distantly, from the royal houses of Hanover and Stuart. His mother was descended from Charles Calvert, 3rd Baron Baltimore, and Henry Lee of Ditchley, one of whose descendants was Edward Lee, 1st Earl of Lichfield, who married Charlotte Fitzroy, an illegitimate daughter of Charles II by one of his mistresses, Barbara Palmer. It is believed Custis was descended from George I's natural daughter Melusina von der Schulenburg, Countess of Walsingham, whose extra-marital liaison with Charles Calvert, 5th Baron Baltimore, produced a son, Benedict Swingate Calvert, who was Custis's maternal grandfather. Custis's father, John Parke Custis, was the son of Martha Washington by her marriage to Daniel Parke Custis.\n\nCustis's sister Eleanor \"Nelly\" Parke Custis Lewis married George Washington's nephew, Lawrence Lewis. As a wedding present, Washington gave Nelly a section of Mount Vernon's land, on which the Lewises established Woodlawn plantation and constructed Woodlawn Mansion. The National Park Service has listed Woodlawn on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nAnother sister of Custis, Martha Parke Custis Peter, married Thomas Peter. Using Martha's inheritances from George and Martha Washington, the Peters purchased property in Georgetown within the District of Columbia. The couple then constructed the Tudor Place mansion on the property. Tudor Place and its grounds, which the National Park Service has listed on the National Register of Historic Places, contain features that resemble those of Arlington House and Woodlawn.\n\nIn 1826, Custis admitted the paternity of Maria Carter, who had been born in 1803 to Arianna \"Airy\" Carter (1776-1880), an African-American slave maid at the Arlington estate who had earlier resided at Mount Vernon as a slave of Martha Washington. Maria lived and worked at Arlington as a slave until 1826, when she married Charles Syphax, a slave who oversaw the dining room of Arlington House. Soon after Maria's marriage, Custis freed her and gave her a plot in the southwest corner of the Arlington estate. Maria subsequently raised ten children on her property. Tall trees and stretches of grassland reportedly surrounded Maria's white cottage. He is also believed to have fathered a girl named Lucy with the slave Caroline Branham.\n\nCustis died in 1857 and was buried at Arlington alongside his wife, Mary Lee Fitzhugh Custis, who had died four years earlier. Custis's will provided that: \n\nCustis' death impacted the careers of Robert E. Lee and his two elder sons on the cusp of the American Civil War. Then-Lt. Col. Robert E. Lee, named as the will's executor, took a two-year leave from his army post in Texas to settle the estate. During this period Lee was ordered to lead troops to quash John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry. By 1859, Lee's eldest son, George Washington Custis Lee, got transferred to an army position in Washington, D.C., so that he could care for Arlington plantation, where his mother and sisters were living. Lee's second son, Rooney Lee, resigned his army commission, got married, and took over farming White House and Romancoke plantations near Richmond. Robert E. Lee was able to leave for Texas to resume his army career in February 1860.\n\nAt the outbreak of the American Civil War, Union Army forces seized the Arlington Plantation for strategic reasons (protection of the river and national capital). The United States government then confiscated the Custis estate for non-payment of taxes. In 1863, a \"Freedman's Village\" was established there for freed slaves.\n\nIn 1864, Montgomery C. Meigs, Quartermaster General of the United States Army, appropriated some parts of Arlington Plantation for use as a military burial ground. After the Civil War ended, George Washington Custis Lee sued and recovered title to the Arlington Plantation from the United States government in 1882, when the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in favor of Lee in \"United States v. Lee\", 106 U. S. 196. Lee then sold the property back to the United State government for $150,000. Arlington House, built by Custis to honor George Washington, is now the Robert E. Lee Memorial. It is restored and open to the public under the auspices of the National Park Service, while the Department of Defense controls Fort Myer and Arlington National Cemetery on the remainder of the Arlington Plantation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54253506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54253506", "title": "Gerrit Bicker", "text": "Gerrit Bicker\n\nGerrit Pieter Bicker (1554–1604) was a Dutch merchant and one of the founders of the Compagnie van Verre and its successor the Dutch East India Company.\n\nBorn in Amsterdam, he was the son of the brewer Pieter Bicker and his wife Lijsbeth Banninck and belonged to the powerful Bicker family of \"regenten\". In 1580 Gerrit married Aleyd Andriesdr Boelens (descended from the knight Andries Boelens), making him brother in law to Claes Boelens, mayor of Amsterdam—they had five children: Jan, Andries, Cornelis and Jacob Bicker.\n\nIn 1585 Bicker was one of the richest merchants in Amsterdam, initially living on the Oudezijds Achterburgwal and later on the Niezel. In 1590 he was elected to the town council and six years later he not only became one of the founding directors of the Compagnie van Verre but also invested in Uilenburg, whilst also involved in the sale of plots of land. In 1597 he and his brother Laurens established the Compagnie van Guinee to trade with Guinea and on the Río de la Plata in South America. In 1601 Gerard le Roy and Laurens Bicker led the twelfth Dutch expedtition to the east Indies, paid for by the Vereenigde Zeeuwse Compagnie (United Zeeland Company), a 'voorcompagnie'.\n\nIn 1600 Gerrit sold his father's brewery. In 1602 he became one of the first financial backers of the Dutch East India Company, contributing 21,000 gulden. He was also one of the first Dutch traders to trade with the White Sea. In 1603 he became mayor of Amsterdam. His son laid the foundation stone of the Zuiderkerk. In 1604 Gerrit was 'ambachtsheer' of Amstelveen, Nieuwer-Amstel.\n\n"}
{"id": "982723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=982723", "title": "Global Unions", "text": "Global Unions\n\nGlobal Unions or Council of Global Unions is a website, which is jointly owned and managed by the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), the Trade Union Advisory Committee to the OECD, and ten global union federations (GUFs).\n\nThe Council of Global Unions (CGU) held its inaugural meeting in Brussels, 9–10 January 2007. All GUFs, with the exception of the International Metalworkers' Federation, as well as TUAC, became members of the Council and signed the agreement.\n\nThe CGU was created to encourage closer co-operation among global unions in order to act more effectively at the international level to build a more favourable, enabling environment for organising and collective bargaining. Although its work has policy implications, it was not established to make policy. That is the responsibility of the organisations that constitute the CGU.\n\nThe Global Unions group is made up of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), which has 175 million members in 151 countries; the global union federations, which represent their respective sectors at the international trade union level (BWI, EI, IAEA, ICEM, IFJ, IMF, ITF, ITGLWF, IUF, PSI and UNI); and the Trade Union Advisory Committee (TUAC) to the OECD.\n\nIn November 2006 two international union organizations were created, the ITUC and the Council of Global Unions that emerged from a reorganization of the international trade union movement (which was divided because of post-war divisions). ITUC is the result of the breakup of both the WCL and ICFTU for the purposes of uniting under one organisation. The Council of Global Unions was created at the first meeting of ITUC and is a body involving the GUFs, ITUC, and TUAC.\n\nAlthough Global Unions are described as 'global', this represents more an \"aspiration than a reality since they are more accurately described as international bodies with wide coverage that are 'globalising (Croucher and Cotton, 2009). Historically, they have built outwards from their European bases in an attempt to include unions in other regions and are still trying to extend their coverage to every country where unions are found.\n\nAccording to Harold Lewis (2003) the Global Union Federations are responsible for 80 per cent of the international movement’s activity and 90 per cent of its work directly affecting workplaces.\n\n"}
{"id": "51349357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51349357", "title": "Grzegorz Ślak", "text": "Grzegorz Ślak\n\nGrzegorz Andrzej Ślak (born 16 May 1965 in ) - Polish entrepreneur, lawyer (specializing in excise duties), financier.\n\nŚlak started his career at in Rybnik, where he was involved mainly in financing and restructuring energy, steel and mining-related companies.\n\nIn 2002 he became the President of the Management Board of .\n\nAs the first person in Poland, he has \"built\" a facility for producing higher fatty acid methyl esters ('biofuels') and pharmaceutical glycerine, thus becoming \"the pioneer of Polish biofuels\".\n\nIn 2005, he \"built\" the first plant for hydrorefining of purified paraffin in Central and Eastern Europe under license by Exxon Mobil. The plant allowed for use of petroleum processing products (paraffin) in pharmaceutical, cosmetic and food industries.\n\nIn 2005, he developed a new technology and started to produce a new fuel, trade name \"ON BIO 10\", consisting of diesel oil and 20% addition of higher fatty acid methyl esters. On this basis, the Minister of Economy adopted the quality standard for this fuel which is still in effect. For this product, Rafineria Trzebinia was awarded the Promotional Emblem “Teraz Polska” in 2006.\n\nIn June 2006, Ślak was accused of reducing the payable excise duties for the unprecedented amount of PLN 760 million in connection with his duties as the President of the Management Board of Rafineria Trzebinia. After two years, tax authorities confirmed accuracy of the settlements, thus accepting correctness of the tax rate applied by Ślak.\n\nIn 2006, he became the President of the Management Board of Skotan S.A., leading the company to one of its biggest stock increases on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 2008, he became the President of the Management Board of Bioeton S.A. In this company, he carried out a capital investment which allowed for the takeover of BDK Kyritz GmbH, a German renewable energy company. In 2009, he became the President of the Management Board of BDK Kyritz GmbH in Germany. Ślak restructured the company, which involved restoring its financial liquidity. At that time, the company was in the state of so-called \"temporary bankruptcy\".\n\nIn July 2011 he took up the position of the President of the Management Board of Wratislavia Biodiesel S.A., a part of Bartimpex S.A capital group, which produces methyl esters and higher fatty acids (biodiesel), as well as raw and pharmaceutical glycerine. At the time of Ślak's taking up of the position, the company had not been operating due to a lack of contracts. As a result of his restructuring, Wratislavia Biodiesel S.A. generated a 7-digit net profit for the year 2012. At the same time, Ślak carried out an investment in bioethanol dehydrated spirit production plant, thus expanding the company's economic activity. The successful restructuring enabled the company to begin an application process for entering the stock market at the beginning of 2015.\n\nAs the President of the Management Board and a shareholder of Wratislavia Biodiesel S.A., he has been carrying out works to build a plant for producing algae fuels (third-generation fuels). If successful, it will be the first plant of this sort in Europe.\n\nSince October 2011, Ślak has been simultaneously holding the post of the President of the Management Board of Akwawit-Polmos S.A. (also a part of Bartimpex S.A capital group) - a producer of spirits and vodkas. At the time of Ślak's taking up of the position, the company had fulfilled all the legal requirements to file for bankruptcy.\n\nIn 2012, his actions resulted in signing agreements with world-scale alcohol producers: one with Brown-Forman (the owner of Jack Daniels and Finlandia brands) for the production of Maximus vodka and another with Diageo (the owner of Johnnie Walker and Baileys) for the production of Smirnoff vodka. As a result of the financial restructuring, the company is planning to enter the stock market in 2016.\n\nAs part of the restructuring process, Ślak carried out an investment in Poland's most modern alcohol production line licensed by CFT Packaging S.A. The line is able to produce 100 million bottles a year, which increases the overall productivity of Akwawit-Polmos S.A. to 150 million bottles a year, thus placing the company among the biggest alcohol producers in Central-Eastern Europe.\n\nIn 2013, he replaced the deceased Aleksander Gudzowaty as the President of the Management Board of Bartimpex S.A.\n\nŚlak is the President of the Management Board and a shareholder of HGBS Finanse S.A, a fund investing in new technology and \"excise business\" enterprises.\n\nIn his career, he has been or is a member of the following supervisory boards (among others): Orlen Oil S.A, J.W. Construction S.A., Orlen Asfalt S.A, Polonia Warszawa S.A., Euronaft Sp. z o.o.\n\nIn April 2003, the Polish government signed an agreement with the U.S. for purchase of 48 F-16 jets for USD 3.5 million. In exchange, the Americans agreed, among others, to invest in Poland's economy and help Polish enterprises to invest in the American market. They failed to fulfill the latter point. In 2014, carrying out the duties of the President of Bartimpex Management Board, Grzegorz Ślak led the company to reach a settlement with Lockheed Martin under which the Polish company was awarded several million dollars in damages. Bartimpex was the only legal entity in Poland to have been awarded damages for the unfulfilled offset agreement conditions.\n\nGrzegorz Ślak initiated the PGNiG takeover of the part of the Yamal–Europe gas pipeline that goes through Poland. The transaction enabled PGNiG to take over 4% of the shares, which gave it advantage over Gazprom (52% to 48%) and guaranteed the Polish party the decisive vote on the most significant matters concerning EuropolGaz, the owner of the pipeline.\n\nHe was awarded the Silver Cross of Merit for \"contributions to the development of oil industry\" pursuant to the Polish President's Decree of 4 June 2003.\n\nHe received \"Man of the year 2005\" Medal awarded by \"Gazeta Krakowska\" for \"professionalism in company management, introducing innovative technologies, effectiveness in winning new markets and supporting culture and sport\".\n\nHe funded two ultrasound devices which allow for earlier cancer detection for the Department of Internal Medicine, Occupational Diseases and Occupational Hypertension of University Teaching Hospital in Wrocław.\n\nHe funded a gamma camera used for an effective thyroid examination for the Department of Endocrinology in Zabrze.\n\nHe funded a device which facilitates performing cancer surgery in children for the Department of Pediatric Surgery and Urology of Wrocław Medical University.\n\nŚlak is an avid enthusiast of football and motorcycle speedway. In 2004 and 2005, he led the speedway team Unia Tarnów to its first in history title of the winner of Team Speedway Polish Championship.\n\nFor many years, he has been connected with Polish speedway rider Tomasz Gollob, who officially handed the 2010 gold medal for winning Individual Speedway World Championship over to Ślak. In 2010, he also wrote a book, entitled \"Why only now?! Gollob as the world champion. A true story\".\n\nIn 2008, he carried out a capital transaction which led to the takeover of Groclin Dyskobolia Grodzisk Wlkp. by the shareholder of J.W. As a result, the club changed its name to Polonia Warszawa and the registered seat to the city of Warsaw. It was the first transaction of this sort and so far one of a kind on the top level of Polish football events.\n\nHe acts as a speedway expert and Grand Prix commentator on Canal+.\n"}
{"id": "55576250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55576250", "title": "Hellmuth Swietelsky", "text": "Hellmuth Swietelsky\n\nHellmuth Swietelsky (23 March 1905 in Traiskirchen; 23 February 1995 in Zell am See) was an Austrian businessman and founder of the construction company .\n\nSwietelsky was born in Traiskirchen (Lower Austria) in 23 March 1905. In 1936 he founded the company Swietelsky in Gmunden.\n\nIn 1978 the University of Vienna awearded him the title \"Honorary senator of the University of Vienna\" (German: \"Ehrensenatoren der Technischen Universität Wien\"). He was also an honorary president of the \"Austrian society of street construction\" and was a founding member of the ÖAMTC, an Austrian automobile club.\n"}
{"id": "47444390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47444390", "title": "High Flyers (TV series)", "text": "High Flyers (TV series)\n\nHigh Flyers is a business-themed television interview program, hosted by Haslinda Amin, which airs in selected regions on Bloomberg Television.\n\nIn each episode, Haslinda interviews prominent or senior business figures inside one of the passenger capsules of the Singapore Flyer Ferris wheel in Singapore. Multiple cameras, technical equipment and crew are present in the capsule as it completes a full revolution of the wheel during filming.\n\nThe initial series was sponsored by ANZ.\n\nThe series premiered in 2011 on Bloomberg Television's Asia Pacific feeds. An eight episode second season premiered in 2013, which also aired in Bloomberg's EMEA markets. The third season premiered on 6 June 2014 and a fourth season of the program premiered on 23 July 2015.\n\nThe following business leaders have been interviewed on \"High Flyers\":\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe production has filmed the series using the Sony EX-3 camera, Canon C300 and GoPros.\n\n"}
{"id": "9763310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9763310", "title": "Hilton family", "text": "Hilton family\n\nThe Hilton family is an American family. The family members hold varying degrees of wealth and status as socialites in the United States of America. They are widely known for the Hilton Hotels & Resorts Group which was established by Conrad Hilton in 1919 when he bought his first hotel.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3940108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3940108", "title": "Institute for Collaborative Engagement", "text": "Institute for Collaborative Engagement\n\nThe Institute for Collaborative Engagement is an American-based internationally focused think-tank formed around the year 2000.\n\nIt uses collaborative strategies to address social and organizational problems in areas ranging from human rights and international development to conflict resolution and international relations.\n\nThe Institute founded and convenes Collaboration at Work as an international forum of professionals working to promote organizational justice; it has become widely cited as a theory-to-practice think tank on dispute resolution and ethics in organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "31897701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31897701", "title": "John Delaney (businessman)", "text": "John Delaney (businessman)\n\nJohn Delaney (1969 – 21 May 2011) was an Irish businessman and the CEO of the trading exchange website Intrade from 2003 until 2011, which was the first commercial online exchange to feature trading on election outcomes.\n\nDelaney died at the age of 42 while attempting to climb Mount Everest—a lifelong ambition—and came within 50 metres of the summit. He is survived by his wife (Orla), two sons (Caspar and Alexander) and a daughter (Hope) who was born whilst Delaney was away on the expedition.\n\n"}
{"id": "493256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493256", "title": "John Murray Forbes", "text": "John Murray Forbes\n\nJohn Murray Forbes (February 23, 1813 – October 12, 1898) was an American railroad magnate, merchant, philanthropist and abolitionist. He was president of both the Michigan Central railroad and the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad in the 1850s. He kept doing business with Russell & Company.\n\nForbes was born on February 23, 1813, in Bordeaux, France. His father, Ralph Bennett Forbes, was a member of the Forbes family, descended from Scottish immigrants who attempted unsuccessfully to start a trade from Bordeaux. His mother, Margaret Perkins, was a member of the Boston Brahmin Perkins family merchant dynasty involved in the China trade. Among his siblings was older brother was Robert Bennet Forbes, sea captain and China merchant. \n\nHis paternal uncle was John Murray Forbes, lawyer and diplomat, and his maternal uncle was merchant Thomas Handasyd Perkins. Among his cousins was the botanist Francis Blackwell Forbes.\n\nIn 1814, his parents moved back to the Captain Robert Bennet Forbes House in Milton, Massachusetts. Forbes attended school at Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, then at Round Hill School in Northampton, Massachusetts, from 1823 to 1828.\n\nForbes was one of three brothers sent by their uncle to Canton, China, and achieved some financial success during a short time spent trading in Canton. However, unlike his brother Robert, who devoted himself to the China trade, Forbes returned to Boston and became an early railroad investor and landowner. \n\nAs with Jay Gould and E. H. Harriman, Forbes was an important figure in the building of America's railroad system. From March 28, 1846 through 1855, he was president of Michigan Central Railroad, and he was a director and president of the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy Railroad, he helped with the growth of the American Middle West. In addition, he founded J.M. Forbes & Co., an investment firm in Boston in 1838.\n\nIn 1860, he was an elector for Abraham Lincoln. He served as the Chairman of the Republican National Committee during the administration of President Abraham Lincoln. Staunchly pro-Union, he is given credit for founding the New England Loyal Publication Society in early 1863 (Smith 1948). After the Civil War, Forbes was elected as a 3rd Class (honorary) Companion of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States.\n\nForbes was a delegate to the Republican conventions of 1876, 1880 and 1884, he eventually became displeased with the Republican party and worked successfully to get Democrat Grover Cleveland elected President.\n\nHe supplied money and weapons to New Englanders to fight slavery in Kansas and in 1859 entertained John Brown.\n\nForbes's many philanthropic activities included the re-establishment of Milton Academy, a preparatory school south of Boston, Massachusetts in 1884.\n\nForbes married Sarah Swain Hathaway (1813–1900). They resided in Milton, Massachusetts, and summered on Naushon Island in Dukes County, Massachusetts. They had two sons and four daughters:\n\n\nForbes died of pneumonia on October 12, 1898 in Milton, Massachusetts.\n\nHis cousin Francis Blackwell Forbes (1839–1908) is the great-grandfather of 2004 U.S. Democratic presidential candidate John Forbes Kerry. His 4x great-grandson is Jonathan Meath, a renowned Emmy award-winning television producer.\n\nIn the September 1899 issue of \"Atlantic\" magazine, Edward Waldo Emerson (Ralph Waldo Emerson's son), published Forbes' biography. The Emerson and Forbes families were close as Forbes' son, William, married Ralph's daughter, Edith Emerson. In \"Letters and Social Aims\", Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote of Forbes:\n\n\"Never was such force, good meaning, good sense, good action, combined with such domestic lovely behavior, such modesty and persistent preference for others. Wherever he moved he was the benefactor... How little this man suspects, with his sympathy for men and his respect for lettered and scientific people, that he is not likely, in any company, to meet a man superior to himself,\" and \"I think this is a good country that can bear such a creature as he.\"\n\nThe small community of Forbes, Missouri, is named for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "24929621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24929621", "title": "Krit Ratanarak", "text": "Krit Ratanarak\n\nKrit Ratanarak (; ; born 19 April 1946) is the Chairman of Bangkok Broadcasting & Television Company (operator of Channel 7) and head of one of Thailand’s leading family business groups. The Ratanarak family have substantial holdings in a number of Thai-based companies including Krungsri Bank, Siam City Cement, Allianz Ayudhya, Sri Ayudhya Capital, Matching Studio, Media of Medias and Eastern Star Real Estate as well as holding a majority stake in BBTV.\n\nKrit Ratanarak was born in 1946 and is the eldest of six children with five sisters, four of whom now live outside Thailand. His mother, Sasithorn, still lives in Bangkok. \n\nThe Ratanarak family are known to be very private; Forbes call them ‘a very secretive clan’ and Krit’s son Chachchon has been described as being ‘influential while staying below the radar. The Ratanaraks are one of the few remaining ‘old money’ families in Thailand. Krit is the son of Chuan Ratanarak, who founded Bank of Ayudhya (known today as Krungsri Bank), Siam City Cement (producer of the Insee Cement brand) and Bangkok Broadcasting and Television and was one of Thailand’s last great self-made business Titans. Krit took over the family businesses after the death of his father in 1993.\n\nRatanarak is one of the most successful and businessmen in Thailand. He joined Bank of Ayudhya in 1972 becoming President in 1982 and CEO in 1990. In 1993 he became Chairman and CEO of the bank, Chairman of BBTV, Chairman of Siam City Cement and Chairman of Ayudhya Insurance. In the late 1990s, Ratanarak navigated Bank of Ayudhya and the other family businesses through the worst of the Asian financial crisis with the result that the Ratanaraks were one of only 8 business groups that had been in Thailand’s top 40 in 1979 to survive in the top rankings in 2009.\n\nIn the years after the crisis Ratanarak strengthened the major family businesses by introducing outside capital and international management expertise.\n\nRatanarak recapitalised Siam City Cement in 1998 in the process selling part of the family’s equity to Holderbank (later to become Holcim). Contemporary newspaper reports wrongly suggested that the sale of equity to Holderbank was used by the family to raise the funds required to recapitalize Bank of Ayudhya. However, as part of the terms of the sale, the full proceeds received by the family from Holderbank – as well as additional funds from the Ratanarak Group - were reinvested in Siam City Cement via a rights issue to recapitalize the business and the capital injected by the family into the bank came instead from contingency reserves. In 2013 the Ratanarak family controlled 47% of the equity in Siam City Cement which had a market value of US $3.2 billion and no significant debt with Holcim holding 27.5% of the shares. In 1998, prior to the deal with Holderbank, the family had controlled slightly more than 50% of the company.\n\nWhile other banks closed or were nationalized, Ratanarak completed a recapitalization of Bank of Ayudhya, and the bank continued to improve its performance in the post-crisis aftermath. In 1996 before the crisis the bank had a market value of US $4 billion in 2014 prices and this had risen to US $7 billion in 2014. The family shareholding in the bank was reduced in 2007 from 35% to 25% to comply with a reduction in the maximum permitted holding under new banking regulations which came into force in 2008. The reduction in the family’s holding was taken up by GE Capital whom the family brought into the management of the bank in 2007 to install best practice. In 2013 GE Capital sold their holding to Japan’s MUFJ following losses incurred in the 2008 banking crisis, and a change in strategy by GE to reduce their exposure to financial services. In 2014 the Ratanarak family controlled 25% of the bank’s equity with the remaining equity held by MUFJ.\n\nThe Ratanarak Group emerged from the crisis with Ratanarak at the head of one of the top five business families in Thailand, and one of three of Thailand’s most powerful banking families along with the Sophonpanich and Lamsam families.\n\nSince 1993, Ratanarak has added property companies Eastern Star and Grand Canal Land and media company Matching Maximise Solution to the family business group.\n\nIn 1981 Ratanarak became Thailand’s youngest senator at the age of 35, serving for four terms.\n\nAccording to press reports in March 2012, Ratanarak is working to transform the Rama III area of Bangkok into a major commercial centre.\n\nAccording to Forbes the Ratanarak family’s holdings in the group businesses in January 2015 were estimated to be worth US$5.4 billion, based on publicly known assets and excludes private assets and property. In 2012 the Thai publication ‘Which Family is Richest’ reported the Ratanarak family as having holdings in excess of US$10 billion since 1998 when other assets are included.\n\nRatanarak is divorced with one son, Chachchon, born in 1972.\n\n"}
{"id": "48311829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48311829", "title": "Law Kar Po", "text": "Law Kar Po\n\nLaw Kar Po (born 1947/1948) is a Hong Kong billionaire businessman, chairman of Park Hotel Group.\n\nLaw Kar Po grew his father's \"textile empire\", moving into property and hotels. His elder brother is fellow billionaire Kenneth Lo.\n\nPark Hotel Group manages 12 hotels in eight cities and five countries in the Asia-Pacific region.\n\nAs of October 2015, \"Forbes\" estimated his net worth at US$2.7 billion.\n\nHe is the father of Allen Law, who is the chief executive officer (CEO) of Park Hotel Group.\n"}
{"id": "3438715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3438715", "title": "Long run and short run", "text": "Long run and short run\n\nIn microeconomics, the long run is the conceptual time period in which there are no fixed factors of production, so that there are no constraints preventing changing the output level by changing the capital stock or by entering or leaving an industry. The long run contrasts with the short run, in which some factors are variable and others are fixed, constraining entry or exit from an industry. In macroeconomics, the long run is the period when the general price level, contractual wage rates, and expectations adjust fully to the state of the economy, in contrast to the short run when these variables may not fully adjust.\n\nIn the long run, firms \nchange production levels in response to (expected) economic profits or losses, and the land, labour, capital goods and entrepreneurship vary to reach the minimum level of long-run average cost. In the simplified case of plant capacity as the only fixed factor, a generic firm can make these changes in the long run:\n\nThe long run is associated with the long-run average cost (LRAC) curve in microeconomic models along which a firm would minimize its average cost (cost per unit) for each respective long-run quantity of output. \"Long-run marginal cost\" (\"LRMC\") is the added cost of providing an additional unit of service or commodity from changing capacity level to reach the lowest cost associated with that extra output. LRMC equalling price is efficient as to resource allocation in the long run. The concept of \"long-run cost\" is also used in determining whether the long-run expected to induce the firm to remain in the industry or shut down production there. In long-run equilibrium of an industry in which perfect competition prevails, the LRMC = LRAC at the minimum LRAC and associated output. The shape of the long-run marginal and average costs curves is determined by returns to scale. \n\nThe long run is a planning and implementation stage. Here a firm may decide that it needs to produce on a larger scale by building a new plant or adding a production line. The firm may decide that new technology should be incorporated into its production process. The firm thus considers all its long-run production options and selects the optimal combination of inputs and technology for its long-run purposes. The optimal combination of inputs is the least-cost combination of inputs for desired level of output when all inputs are variable. Once the decisions are made and implemented and production begins, the firm is operating in the short run with fixed and variable inputs.\n\nAll production in real time occurs in the short run. \nIn the short run, a profit-maximizing firm will:\n\nThe transition from the short run to the long run may be done by considering some short-run equilibrium that is also a long-run equilibrium as to supply and demand, then comparing that state against a new short-run and long-run equilibrium state from a change that disturbs equilibrium, say in the sales-tax rate, tracing out the short-run adjustment first, then the long-run adjustment. Each is an example of comparative statics. Alfred Marshall (1890) pioneered in comparative-static period analysis. He distinguished between the temporary or market period (with output fixed), the short period, and the long period. \"Classic\" contemporary graphical and formal treatments include those of Jacob Viner (1931), John Hicks (1939), and Paul Samuelson (1947). \nThe law is related to a positive slope of the short-run marginal-cost curve.\n\nThe usage of \"long run\" and \"short run\" in macroeconomics differs somewhat from the above microeconomic usage. John Maynard Keynes in 1936 emphasized fundamental factors of a market economy that might result in prolonged periods away from full-employment. In later macroeconomic usage, the long run is the period in which the price level for the overall economy is completely flexible as to shifts in aggregate demand and aggregate supply. In addition there is full mobility of labor and capital between sectors of the economy and full capital mobility between nations. In the short run none of these conditions need fully hold. The price level is sticky or fixed in response to changes in aggregate demand or supply, capital is not fully mobile between sectors, and capital is not fully mobile across countries due to interest rate differences among countries and fixed exchange rates. \n\nA famous critique of neglecting short-run analysis was by Keynes, who wrote that \"In the long run, we are all dead\", referring to the long-run proposition of the quantity theory of money, for example, a doubling of the money supply doubling the price level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3552533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3552533", "title": "Mall Tycoon", "text": "Mall Tycoon\n\nMall Tycoon is a business simulation game, released in 2002 for Windows 95/98/ME. It was developed by Holistic Designs and published by Take-Two Interactive. It has two sequels: Mall Tycoon 2 (which also had a \"Deluxe\" extended edition) and Mall Tycoon 3.\n\nThe game begins as an empty plot of land upon which the player develops his or her mall. Players can build shops, customize decorations, organize special events such as fashion shows, and manage mall employees. It is important for the player to work out what is profitable and what is not to ensure the survival of the fledgling mall. The mall may become overrun with zombies or aliens which can be eradicated when the player calls upon the Men in Black.\n\nIn the United States, \"Mall Tycoon\" sold 420,000 copies and earned $7.6 million by August 2006, after its release in January 2002. It was the country's 36th best-selling computer game between January 2000 and August 2006. Combined sales of all \"Mall Tycoon\" series entries released between January 2000 and August 2006 had reached 820,000 units in the United States by the latter date.\n\nThe game received \"generally unfavorable\" reviews, according to video game review score aggregator Metacritic. \"Computer Gaming World\" criticized the game for its wonky camera and frustrating interface. The magazine opined that even the poorly received Airport Tycoon is a better game than Mall Tycoon.\n\n\"Mall Tycoon 2\" is a business simulation game, released in 2003. It is the sequel to \"Mall Tycoon\", which allows the gamer to construct, expand and thereafter manage a shopping mall. It describes itself as the \"Ultimate Mall Experience\".\n\nThe Mall is visited by many types of customers, from children to seniors. There are also criminals among the clientele, who should be caught by the mall's security guards, and visits by dogs, which indicates a low level of hygiene and security. Staff can be hired to perform these duties, such as janitors for cleaning floors, but some of the hiring specifications require background checks, which cost money and affect bottom line.\n\nThe number of stores and the rating also affect the number of customers the mall gets. For every store, five people can fit into your shopping mall, and the higher the rating, the more people come to your mall. The game provides a wide variety of stores. They include electronics, clothing, food, entertainment, sports and services. Many of the more advanced stores need to be researched before they can be constructed. A player can build a mall atrium and arrange monthly events to promote the mall. Such promotions include car shows, a mall oasis and a circus. An \"owner\" also can build restaurants, movie theaters, bowling alleys and arcades to attract customers. As with hiring research, these new additions also must be researched and evaluated.\n\nFloors may be changed easily and can be customised. Wood is the most common flooring medium, but other types include a puzzle floor for the kids' area and tiles for the food court. Adding floors to the mall is expensive, but is a necessary investment when all vacant areas have been occupied and expanded to their limits.\n\nThe Deluxe version of \"Mall Tycoon 2\" adds certain scenarios, more customer types and other new features.\n\"Mall Tycoon 3\" is a business simulation game, released in 2005. It was developed by Cat Daddy Games and published by Global Star Software. It is the third and final installment in the Mall Tycoon series, after the original \"Mall Tycoon\" and \"Mall Tycoon 2\". The game was released to mixed reviews, getting lower than the previous games.\n\nAfter selecting to play in sandbox mode, three starting locations are given. You may choose to build your mall in a neighborhood, a big city, or beside the beach. One may also choose to play a campaign game instead, and select from several different challenges.\nUnlike in the previous installments of the series, Mall Tycoon 3 allows players to create customized stores. Over 40 types of stores of various types are available for placement in a pre-made store or a player may design their own, putting in everything from sale signs to the merchandise racks. Also customizable are the employees; their job capabilities and personal appearances are adjustable. In addition to regular in-line stores, there are also a handful of kiosks, such as one that sells cellular phones.\n\nIn the first two Mall Tycoon games, stores were created by placing the set store size, and then adding a store to them. In Mall Tycoon 3, the player paints the floor to create a store, allowing for them to be of any shape or size.\n\nMall Tycoon 3 features a total of 5 buildable mall levels.\n"}
{"id": "28575496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28575496", "title": "Michael Hudson (reporter)", "text": "Michael Hudson (reporter)\n\nMichael Hudson (born 1961) is a Pulitzer-Prize winning American investigative journalist. He is global investigations editor at the Associated Press, where he oversees the work of more than 20 investigative reporters and editors in the U.S. and abroad.\nBefore joining AP, he worked as a senior editor with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ). At ICIJ, Hudson worked on the organization's Offshore Leaks, China Leaks, Luxembourg Leaks, Panama Papers and Paradise Papers investigations of offshore money laundering and tax avoidance. He was an editor, reporter and writer on the Panama Papers investigation, which won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for explanatory reporting. He was project editor, reporter and writer on \"Evicted and Abandoned,\" ICIJ's 2015 investigation of the World Bank's human rights and environmental records.\n\nHudson previously reported on police, prisons, poverty and politics for The Roanoke (Va.) Times and covered business and finance for the Wall Street Journal and the Center for Public Integrity. Hudson's book \"The Monster: How a Gang of Predatory Lenders and Wall Street Bankers Fleeced America – and Spawned a Global Crisis,' was named 2010 Book of the Year by \"Baltimore City Paper\".\n\nHudson was born in Richmond, Virginia and grew up in Franklin County, Virginia. He graduated from Washington and Lee University in 1985.\n\nColumbia Journalism Review has called Hudson the reporter who \"beat the world on subprime abuses\" and credited him with being ahead of the rest of the media in exposing the fraudulent lending practices that were the driving causes of the mortgage crisis. Businessjournalism.org has called him the \"guru of all things predatory lending.\" Hudson began investigating the subprime mortgage industry in the early 1990s.\n\nIn February 2005, Hudson and \"Los Angeles Times\" staff writer Scott Reckard broke a story about \"boiler room\" sales tactics at Ameriquest Mortgage, the flagship company of the nation's largest subprime lending operation and sponsor of the 2005 Super Bowl half-time show. Columbia Journalism Review called the \"boiler room\" story and a follow-up piece \"[t]wo of the most revealing stories on the culture that overtook the lending industry.\" In January 2006, Ameriquest agreed to pay a $325 million predatory lending settlement in 49 states and the District of Columbia.\n\nIn June 2008, Ireland's \"Sunday Business Post\" cited Hudson's 1996 book, \"Merchants of Misery\", for \"describ[ing], in great detail, how mortgage-backed securities invented in the 1980s were making a large pool of money available to shady lenders who were making predatory loans to very poor customers at very high rates.\"\n\nHudson appeared in the documentary film \"\".\n\nAt the Center for Public Integrity, Hudson focused on whistleblower issues and other financial stories. His work included a series of articles, \"The Great Mortgage Cover-Up,\" about the treatment of whistleblowers who reported fraud inside the U.S. mortgage industry. The series identified 63 former employees at 20 financial institutions who claim they were fired or demoted for reporting fraud or refusing to commit fraud. A follow-up piece focused on the story of General Electric Co.'s foray into subprime in 2004-07, reporting on eight former employees of GE's WMC Mortgage unit who say management brushed them aside when they flagged loans supported by falsified documents, inflated incomes or other legerdemain. The first installment in the series was selected to appear in the Columbia Journalism Review's \"Best Business Writing 2012\".\n\nHudson edited \"Merchants of Misery: How Corporate America Profits from Poverty\". He is also the author of \"The Monster: How a Gang of Predatory Lenders and Wall Street Bankers Fleeced America – and Spawned a Global Crisis\", published in October 2010 by St. Martin's Press. The book focuses on two firms – Ameriquest Mortgage and Lehman Brothers – that were key players in the rise and fall of the subprime mortgage industry. It was named 2010 Book of the Year by \"Baltimore City Paper\".\n\nHudson shared a John Hancock Award for financial reporting and a Sidney Hillman Award for social justice journalism for stories in the Southern Exposure Magazine's fall 1993 issue titled \"Poverty Inc.,\" about subprime lenders and other businesses that market to low-income and minority consumers. Those stories were also named as a finalist for a National Magazine Award. Hudson shared a George Polk Award for magazine reporting and a Harry Chapin Media Award for stories published in Southern Exposure about Citigroup's subprime mortgage lending operations.\n\nHudson's work on \"The Great Mortgage Cover-Up\" was recognized with an Excellence in Financial Journalism Award from the New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants as well as two \"Best-in-Business\" awards from the Society of American Business Editors and Writers.\n\nFor his work at ICIJ, he has shared numerous accolades, including a Barlett and Steele Gold Medal, an Investigative Reporters and Editors Award, a Scripps-Howard Award for business/economic reporting, two George Polk Awards, a SPJ/Sigma Delta Chi Award for online investigative reporting and three New York Press Club awards for online business reporting. ICIJ's World Bank investigation, which Hudson led as project editor and reporter/writer, won a dozen honors, including an Overseas Press Club Award, a National Headliner Award and an Online News Association Award for Innovation in Investigative Reporting (Large Media Category).\n\nHudson's writing has appeared in a number of publications, including \"Le Monde\", \"El Pais\", \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", \"Forbes\", \"The Hill\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"Washington Monthly\" and \"National Law Journal\". He has appeared on C-SPAN, \"NBC Nightly News\", and National Public Radio's \"Morning Edition\", \"Talk of the Nation\", and \"Fresh Air with Terry Gross\". Hudson has been interviewed by \"Mother Jones\".\n\nSome business representatives have been critical of Hudson's reporting. Lawyers for Ford Motor Company criticized Hudson's 1990s reporting on Associates Financial Services, the Ford subprime lending subsidiary that was later the subject of a predatory lending settlement with the Federal Trade Commission. The lawyers called Hudson's book, \"Merchants of Misery\", which included a chapter on Ford and Associates, \"impertinent\" and \"scandalous.\" IndyMac Bank objected to a June 30, 2008, report that Hudson wrote for the Center for Responsible Lending, \"IndyMac: What Went Wrong?\", which found evidence that the bank had \"engaged in unsound and abusive lending during the mortgage boom, routinely making loans without regard to borrowers' ability to repay.\" Shortly before the bank was seized by federal regulators, an IndyMac spokesman dismissed the report as a \"hit piece\" that \"relies on unsubstantiated anecdotal evidence.\" The U.S. Department of the Treasury inspector general's office later reported that its investigation indicated IndyMac had done \"little, if any, review of borrower qualifications, including income, assets and employment.\"\n\nHudson married author Darcey Steinke in June 2009. It is his second marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "54750232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54750232", "title": "Morison KSi", "text": "Morison KSi\n\nMorison KSi (previously Morison International & KS International) is a global association of professional service firms (accounting, auditing, tax and business consulting). The association has 158 member firms in 88 countries. Morison KSi's status as an association is in accordance with the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) audit code and the EU Statutory Audit Directive 2006/43/(EC) (“the 8th Directive”). Morison KSi is ranked by the International Accounting Bulletin as the 9th largest accounting association in the world. In January 2017, the combined revenue of all member firms was USD1.002 billion.\n\nThe association is the legacy of Walter Morison (26 November 1919 - 26 March 2009) a Royal Air Force pilot who became a prisoner of war and was sent to Colditz for attempting to steal an enemy aircraft during the Second World War.\n\nFollowing the war, Morison qualified as a chartered accountant at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales. He was articled at Morison Stoneham, a firm established by his great uncle. Morison then worked at Coopers Bros, the firm that became Coopers & Lybrand, before returning to his family firm, Morison Stoneham. He led the firm as a senior partner through a period of great change from 1960 to 1981 before retiring. Morison Stoneham was the founding firm of Morison International.\n\nMorison KSi is run under the direction of an international Board with 5 sub-regional Boards - Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, Latin America and North America. Liza Robbins is the CEO of Morison KSi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42984231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42984231", "title": "Moulay Abdallah ben Ali Alaoui", "text": "Moulay Abdallah ben Ali Alaoui\n\n\"Sharif Moulay\" Abdallah Alaoui (; born c. 1965 Rabat) is a Moroccan businessman and advisor of king Mohammed VI, of whom he is the maternal first cousin and the paternal second cousin and a close friend.\n\nSharif Moulay Abdallah Alaoui is the son of Prince Moulay Ali (the son of Prince Moulay Idriss and the grandson of Sultan Moulay Youssef) and his wife Princess Lalla Fatima Zohra, the eldest daughter of Mohammed V and older sister of Hassan II. He is a full-brother of Princess Lalla Joumala Alaoui and Sharif Moulay Youssef Alaoui. \nHe is a graduate of the University of Texas.\n\nIn his 2014 book, Prince Moulay Hicham stated that Moulay Abdallah Alaoui was sent to him by Mohammed VI in 1999 in order to ask him not come to the palace again.\n\nHe is the CEO of Mediholding, an energy company which rose to prominence in 1999 with the false discovery of oil in Talsint. He participated in a joint-venture with John Paul DeJoria in Lonestar Energy, the drilling company.\n\nSharif Moulay Abdallah Alaoui is an advisor to Mohammed VI and is often seen alongside him in official and unofficial activities. He is the president of the Moroccan royal equestrian federation, having replaced Princess Lalla Amina upon her death in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "604572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=604572", "title": "Nariman Point", "text": "Nariman Point\n\nNariman Point is a business district in Downtown Mumbai. Formerly the prominent business district on India's west coast, Nariman Point yielded that status to Mumbai's Bandra-Kurla Complex in 2010. Prior to Nariman Point's development, Mumbai's business centre was at Ballard Estate, which like Nariman Point also was built on land reclaimed from the sea.\n\nLocated on the southern tip of the Mumbai peninsula, at the end of the Mumbai's Marine Drive, Nariman Point is named after Khursheed Framji Nariman, a municipal corporator who had initiated the area's development as an extension to the Back Bay reclamation. Nariman Point houses some of India's prestigious business headquarters, and despite its decline (see below), it remains one of the more expensive business districts in India, exceeded only by Delhi's Connaught Place and since April 2012 by Mumbai's own Bandra-Kurla Complex.\n\nPrior to 1940, the area was part of the Arabian sea. A popular leader of the Congress, Khurshed Nariman (affectionately called \"Veer\" Nariman), a Bombay Municipal Corporation corporator, proposed to reclaim the area from the sea near Churchgate. To accomplish this task, the shallow seafront was filled with debris from various parts of the city. Reinforced concrete cement was also used, the steel for which had to be purchased on the black market at higher prices due to World War II.The entire cost was estimated to be (equivalent to about in 2018). Additional reclamations were carried out in the 1970s. A construction boom in that decade also led to the development of commercial high-rises in the area.\n\nIn 2006, prior to the financial crisis of 2007–08, Nariman point was the 7th most expensive location in the world for office space. However, by December 2012 Nariman Point had fallen to 25th place while Delhi's Connaught Place remained the 5th most expensive location despite many offices moving to Gurgaon and Noida. During the same period, Nariman Point also dropped from 7th to 15th most expensive location for office rentals. The reasons for the decline were the high prices, lower quality and age of construction, and increasing distances from residential hubs which have now moved northwards and to the suburbs. In the first three quarters of 2012, Nariman Point had a vacancy rate of almost 25%, compared with 18% in the rest of the Mumbai city.\n\nAir India had its headquarters in the Air India Building for many years.\n\nRenewable Energy and Power companies Ind Renewable Enercy Ltd and Vakharia Power Infrastructure Ltd are headquartered at Regent Chambers, 208 Nariman Point, Mumbai.\n\nAt one time All Nippon Airways maintained its Mumbai sales office in the Oberoi Trident Towers in Nariman Point.\n"}
{"id": "6319420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6319420", "title": "O'Carroll", "text": "O'Carroll\n\nO'Carroll (), also known as simply Carroll or Carrell, is a Gaelic Irish clan which is the most prominent sept of the Ciannachta (also known as Clan Cian). Their genealogies claim that they are kindred with the Eóganachta (themselves led by the MacCarthys), descended paternally from Ailill Aulom. From the Middle Ages until 1552, the family ruled an area within the Kingdom of Munster known as Éile. The last monarch Tiege Caoc O'Carroll surrendered and regranted to the Tudor Kingdom of Ireland.\n\nNotable is the history of the Ó Cearbhaill whose territory, known as Ely O'Carroll in Éile, consisted of the pasture lands of Ballycrinass, Rosscullenagh and Drumcan, extending to the Lake of Leghagh, commonly Laghaghirisallive and bounded on the west by the lands called Laghenagarken and on the east adjoining or near to Glencrokin. This was always known as Ely O'Carroll. The mountain land extended from the Laghanagerah (Lochan na gCaorach) to Polle Dowa (Poll Dubh in Roscomroe) and then in a south easterly direction to the Slieve Bloom Mountains, which are the limits between Ely O'Carroll and Upper Ossory meeting at a village called Garryvoe or Scully's land.\n\nThe Ely O'Carroll sept was the most powerful and most famous, but there were at least four other septs, O'Carroll of Oriel in the Dundalk area, O' Carrolls of Ossory in the Carlow/Kilkenny area and two septs in the Kerry area. \nThe prefix \"O'\" is very often dropped in the case of this surname, occasionally replaced with \"Mac\". Carvill is another anglicization of the same family name.\n\nOf Gaelic Irish descent, the Carrolls have their origins in the ancient kingdom of Éile, commonly anglicized \"Ely\", as a branch of the ruling O'Carroll family.\nThe Ely O'Carroll come from counties Offaly and Tipperary in Ireland. The sept is also known as Eile and Clan Cian. One descendant, Charles Carroll of Carrollton (1737-1832), was a wealthy landowner in Maryland and a signer of the Declaration of Independence in 1776. His cousin, Dan Carroll, was a signer of the Constitution.\n\nHistoric Ely O'Carroll surnames are: Carroll, Bohan/Bowen, Dooley, Meagher/Maher/Mahar/Mahan, Kelly/Kealy, Flanagan, Corcoran, Healy, Nevin, O'Connor.\n\nClan Cian was also known as the Cianachta, the Race of Cian, who was the youngest son, of Olioll Ollum King of Munster, and Grandson, of King Eoghan Mor the 1st (known as) Mogh Nuadath of Leith Mogha (Mogha’s Half) of southern Ireland of the Milesian race of Heber, who contested for supremacy of all Ireland in the second century of the Christian Era.\n\nThe Cianachta were led well over 1500 years by a recognized King, Prince, High Chief, or Ruling Lord chosen from members of the O’Carroll-Carroll and rival Houses of the noble Septs of Éile\n\nIn the fifth century the Cianacht Chief, Éile Righ Derg (Eile, the Red King) ruled the territory that came to be known as Ely O'Carroll to distinguish the area from other O'Carroll kingdoms and lands.The Kingdom of Éile (Ely) was located anciently in Ormond in the Counties Tipperary, Waterford and extending into Offaly, Leix, Kilkenny.\n\nCearbhaill (Carroll) Son, of Aeodh, and Chief of the Cianachta was King of Éile at the turn of the first millennium. This Cearbhaill, the King of Éile, led the Elyans at the Battle of Clontarf in 1014 with the High King of Ireland, Brian Boru. F.J. \"Eile\" O'Carroll, the late O'Carroll of Éile O'Carroll created Clan Cian through the Charter of Re-Formation in 1982-1983 as his personal clan for all Cianachta whose families originally lived within the regions ruled by The O'Carroll of Éile O'Carroll in Ireland as well as to all people who wish to honor their background and the ideals that Clan Cian promotes - Irish culture in all its manifestations and the exploration of expatriate Irish's roots back to Ireland.\n\nThe following is quoted from the Ordnance survey letters to King's County (Offaly) 1838 cit. Sir William Betham's Irish Antiquarian Researches.\nPart I, Pg.95. Sir William Betham (1779–1853) was the Ulster King of Arms and can be considered a fairly reliable source as such.\n\nThe family of O'Carroll, according to the Irish antiquaries, are descended from Kean, the third son of Olioll Olum, King of Munster. Teige, the eldest son of this Kean, was a distinguished warrior, who by killing in battle his three rivals, procured for Cormac Mac Art, King of Ulster, the Monarchy of Ireland. Cormac rewarded him with a grant of land in Connaught called Lurgny Gallen and Culavin, he paying to the King of Connaught and his successors, 150 milch cows in May; 100 beeves and 100 barrels of mead or Metheglin at Alhallontide yearly, forever.\n\nHe had two sons, Conla and Cormac Galeng; to the latter he gave the lands of Lurgny Gallen, now called the Barony of Gallen in the County of Mayo and Culavin, which were possessed by his descendants, the O'Haras and O'Garas.\n\nConla, the eldest son, possessed the lands afterwards called Duthec Eile, i.e., the Estate of Eile, from Eile Ridheargs, of which his descendants were styled Kings, there being no other title of honour in use in Ireland before the coming of the English.\n\nCearbhaill, the twelfth according to some, and the 16th in descent according to other authorities, from the above Eile, gave name to the Sept of the O'Carrolls, i.e., the descendants of Cearbhuill. The tenth in descent from him was Teige or Thatheus O'Cearbhuill Boy, King of Eile, who caused the Box of Dimma to be gilt, died about the middle of the 12th century and was succeeded by his son.\n\nMaolroona O'Carroll or O'Cearbhaill, King of Eile, was succeeded by his brother.\n\nDonald O'Carroll, who was King of Ely at the coming of the English under Strongbow and from him are descended the Principal houses of this family.\n\nMaolroona O'Carroll, whose daughter Grace, or Grania, was married to Ulick Burke, Lord of Clanrickard, and was mother of Rickard Sassanagh Burke, the first earl, joined with O'Brien and others against the English Government and gave them much trouble. He died A.D. 1532.\n\nHis son Fergonamuin or Ferdinando O'Carroll, who succeeded his father as O'Carroll, concluded a treaty with Leonard, Lord Gray, Lord Deputy of Ireland, 12 June 1538, by which he consented for himself and his successors, the O'Carrolls, Capitanci de Ely O'Carroll, to pay the King 12d. for every carucate of land in Ely O'Carroll, one hundred and twenty marks on the nomination of the chief, and on general hostings to supply the Chief Governor of Ireland with twelve horsemen and twenty four foot men, all well equipped for war with provisions for forty days at the expense of O'Carroll; that on all journeys to those parts, they should supply the Lord Deputy and suite with provisions for three days; that the Lord Deputy should be supplied with provisions by O'Carroll for eighty gallowglasses for three months every year and be permitted to make a road or roads through Ely O'Carroll at his pleasure.\n\nIn 1548 Teige Caoch O'Carroll, son of Ferdinando, called by Sir James Ware, petty King of Ely, routed the English out of his country, but afterwards submitted and was created Baron of Ely in 1532 (I have not been able to find the record of this patent) which he did not long enjoy, having been slain by his own Sept headed by his own kinsman and competitor Cahir O'Carroll, who was afterwards slain by William Adhar O'Carroll, younger brother of Teige, who was knighted 30 March 1567 and made Governor of Ely and Captain of his Nation by Sir Henry Sidney, Lord Justice of Ireland. Sir William died 28 April 1579. His natural son Sir Cahir or Charles O'Carroll, was knighted by Sir John Perrott, Lord Deputy in 1584.\n\nSir Mulrooney O'Carroll, son of Sir William, was knighted by Sir George Carew, L. D. of Ireland, at Dublin Castle, St. James's Day, 1 March 1603, being the day of the Coronation of King James I.\n\nRoger O'Carroll, son and heir of Sir Mulrooney, was ousted out of his Estates by Cromwell, he having attached himself to the King's party under the Duke of Ormond, but his eldest son and heir, Charles O'Carroll, was in great favour with Kings Charles II and James the I, who were not able to restore him to his paternal estate; the latter made him grants of large tracts of land on the Monoccasy River in the Province of Maryland in the North America, which was divided into three manors of each and called after the possession he had lost in Ireland, viz., Ely O'Carroll and Doughoregan. The third was called Carrolston.\n\nThis gentleman was also made Attorney General of the Province and his Estates are still in the possession of his grandson, Charles O'Carroll of Carrolston, Esq. aged 90 years, whose father and himself have been members of the Senate of that State.\n\nMary, the daughter of the last mentioned Charles, was married to Richard Caton Esq., of the State of Maryland, by whom she was mother to her Excellency Marianne, the present Marchioness of Wellesley and three other daughters Elizabeth, Louisa-Catharine (Lady Harvey) and Emily.\n\nSir James Carroll, who was Mayor of Dublin, was knighted by Sir Arthur Chichester, Lord Deputy at Loghroer, the 30th of Sept. 1609. His father, Thomas O'Carroll, being oppressed by the chief of his family, came to live in Dublin.\n\nSir James Carroll had a grant of the Abbey of Baltinglass and was ancestor to the present High Sheriff of the County of Wicklow, Henry Griffiths (Carroll) of Ballymore Esq.\n\nDonagh, or Denis O'Carroll, descended from Donogh O'Carroll, brother to Mulrooney O'Carroll, Chief of his name, who died in 1532, was possessed of the estates of Modereeny and Buolybrack in Tipperary and was ousted by Cromwell. He married O'Kennedy's daughter and had thirty sons, who he formed into a troop of horse and presented to Duke of Ormond for the service of King Charles I. On the Restoration, John, his son, had a grant of his lands at Killury in the Co. of Galway, where he married the daughter of O'Crean by Margaret, the daughter of Lord Athenry. His eldest son James Carroll, was ancestor to the family at Killury; Daniel O'Carroll, his second son, entered into the military service of the King of Spain and was made a Knight of the Order of Saint Iago. He was afterwards, through the interest of the Duke of Ormond, made a Lieutenant-Colonel in the British Service by Queen Anne, in which he rose to the rank of Lt. General, obtained permission to bear the Insignia of the Order of St. Iago in England, had also the style of Sir Daniel and was Colonel of a Regiment of Horse. His grandson, John Whitley O'Carroll, was British resident at Saxe Weimar in 1804.\n\nThree other O'Carrolls, John, Donagh and Kedagh, obtained grants of land in Connaught from King Charles II in compensation for their losses in Leinster.\n\nFrom them are descended the families of Springhill, Tirlogh, Ardagh, Carragh and Dunmore in the Co. of Galway; Forthill in the County of Mayo and Doraville in the Co. of Clare. The other principal families now existing are those of Emmell in the King's County; Thurles, Ballingarry, Nenagh, Littlefield and Annemead in Tipperary; Rockfield in the Co. of Wicklow and Coolroe in the Co. of Carlow.\n\nJohn Carroll of Stephen's Green, Esq., late M.P. for New Ross is the representative of this last family. Owen Carroll represented the King's Co. in King James's Parliament in 1689.\n\nA few of the other families which resided within the kingdom of the O'Carrolls were the O'Meaghers/O'Meachair (Maher), O'Caseys, O'Haras, and O'Garas. All of these family surnames, and related septs, also trace their origins to Cian, or Cianachts but many dispute the notion of an overarching Clan Cian. In MacLysaght’s definitive work \"Irish Families\" there are over 200 Irish surnames listed and while recognising that there are many more Irish names it is now considered that these names constitute the main name bearing Irish septs. Many of these septs developed out of larger groups or clans which pre-dated the development of surnames as in the case of O’Brien in relation to the Dal Cás or O’Higgins in relation to the Cenél Fiachach or in this case O'Carroll in relation to the Cianachta. However, these larger groupings seldom gave rise to surnames in themselves.\n\nSpecifically in the case of Munster \"The Great book of Irish Genealogies\" compiled between 1645 – 66 by Dubhaltach Mac Fhirbhisigh and edited more recently by Nollaig Ó Muraíle (2003), in Vol. II the following pre-surname population groups are listed:\n\nEoghanacht pp 549–599\nDál Cais pp 599–633\nDealbhna pp 633–645\nClanna Céin p. 645 = Clan Cian\nClann Tadch Meic Céin pp 647–661 = Clan Tadch son of Cian\nSíol Luighdheach meic Íochta pp 661–683\nAbout The Cianachta - Clan Cian\n\nClan Cian was founded and recognized by the late F. J. O'Carroll, of Éile O'Carroll, Chief of the Name. Fredrick Arthur O'Carroll, has since assumed the mantle of Chief of the Name with the backing of his Council of Chieftains. Chief Fred, descends from the ancient Kings and Princes of Éile O'Carroll. The Kingdom of Éile (Ely) resides in the heart of south-central Ireland. The O'Carroll is a recognized member of the Standing Council of Irish Chiefs and Chieftains. Not all of the current recognized Chiefs on the Standing Council live in Ireland, The O'Carroll, the Chief of Clan Cian, currently resides in the United States.\n\nThe name Cianachta in Irish means \"of the Race of Cian,\" and so, Clan Cian in modern English. The Cianachta were recognized as a racial group in ancient Ireland and now called again to assemble as a clan in these modern times. We are dedicated to the preservation of the Éile O'Carroll Territory including the Kingdom of Éile and the O'Carroll family and all related families histories. The clan represents the O'Carroll/Carroll families and also includes of all the related, family septs, dependent family septs of Éile O'Carroll and other parts of Ireland, and worldwide. Clan Cian has an appointed Council of Chieftains and Clan Officers that preside over certain designated regional areas appointed by The O'Carroll, Chief of Éile O'Carroll and Clan Cian.\n\nHistorically according to Edward McLysaght the first Chief Herald of the newly formed Republic of Ireland, the term \"clan\" or \"clanne\" in Ireland refers to the people living within a certain territory, whereas in Scotland a clan is composed of people of a specific family. In ancient Ireland, the old kingdom of Éile O'Carroll (Éile Ui Cearbhaill) included many family surnames that you find today. Of those families, the powerful O'Carrolls were kings, overlords, and later chiefs of their people. A few of the major families related by blood to the O'Carrolls, which lived within the Kingdom of Éile O'Carroll were the O'Meaghers, O'Caseys, O'Haras, and O'Garas. All of these family surnames and other related septs, are members of the Clan of Cian - the Cianachta.\n\nA branch of the Carrolls moved to Colonial Maryland and were prominent Roman Catholics. They played a formative role in the foundation of the United States of America as Charles Carroll of Carrollton signed the United States Declaration of Independence. A distant cousin of this branch of the Carroll family was Charles Carroll (barrister), a convert to Anglicanism. Other notable Carrolls were Brigadier General Samuel S. Carroll, Thomas King Carroll and daughter Anna Ella Carroll, and James Carroll. The Carrolls of Maryland have also intermarried with the \"Blenheim branch\" of the Lee family of Virginia.\n\nIn addition to these individuals, the Mitchell family of Maryland claim descent from the aforementioned Charles Carroll of Carrollton through the line of their founding matriarch Lillie Mae Carroll Jackson who, in addition to being a descendant of his, is revered today as one of the earliest and most prominent of the leaders of the civil rights movement.\n\nThe Carroll family are famed for the number of beautiful homes and manors they have built across Maryland. Most famous is Doughoregan Manor, which remains a family seat in the possession of descendants of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, who is buried there. Another early residence of this branch of the family was the Carroll House of Annapolis. The later Homewood House was the birthplace of Governor John Lee Carroll, and is now a part of Johns Hopkins University.\n\nMount Clare, built by Charles Carroll the Barrister, a distant cousin of the Carrolls of Doughoregan Manor, is the oldest extant Colonial era structure in Baltimore City.\n\nA partial, summarized pedigree of the Carroll family:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28842426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28842426", "title": "Oki Kibatarō", "text": "Oki Kibatarō\n\nIn January 1881, convinced that the nation was about to enter the age of communications, Oki founded Meikōsha, which was later renamed Oki Electric Industry. The company manufactured the first telephones in Japan in 1881, only five years after the device was invented by Bell.\n"}
{"id": "42614759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42614759", "title": "Phelan Building", "text": "Phelan Building\n\nThe Phelan Building is an 11-story office building located at 760 Market Street in the Financial District of San Francisco, California. It has a triangular shape reminiscent of the Flatiron Building in Manhattan, New York City, with its tip at the meeting point of Market Street, O’Farrell Street, and Grant Avenue. It is a San Francisco Designated Landmark.\n\nThe building was designed by William Curlett and built in 1908 by James D. Phelan on the place of the first, original Phelan Building, damaged by the 1906 earthquake and fire.\n\nThe first Phelan Building was constructed in 1881 by James Phelan, the father of James D. Phelan. It was a 6-story, bay-windowed, mansard-roofed flatiron.\n\nDespite being advertised to be “thoroughly fire and earthquake proof”, the building was badly damaged in the 1906 post-earthquake fire, and its ruins were subsequently dynamited on April 20, 1906.\n\nWork on the new Phelan Building began on October 7, 1907 and was completed on September 1, 1908 for retail stores, and the first day of 1909 for offices. It was one of the earliest office buildings to be rebuilt after the earthquake.\n\nThe building's exterior features metal windows and is clad in cream glazed terra-cotta. The original steel structure was designed to accommodate 13 floors; eventually eleven were completed.\n\nAt its opening, the building featured an assembly hall on the 11th floor, arcade stores on the second floor, and a basement café.\n\nFor many decades, the Phelan Building was a \"de facto\" center for jewelry, hosting dozens of jewelers and a jewelry school.\n\nAn unusual feature of the building is a small penthouse. Originally adorned by a rooftop garden, it was used by James D. Phelan to entertain dignitaries. It has later served as a photography studio in the 1960s, and was abandoned some time in the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38481854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38481854", "title": "Robert M. Beall II", "text": "Robert M. Beall II\n\nRobert M. Beall II is an American heir and businessman. He is the Chairman of Bealls, a retail corporation of over 500 stores in the United States.\n\nHis late grandfather, Robert M. Beall, Sr., founded Bealls. His father, E.R. Beall, joined the family business in 1940. He received a BSBA from the University of Florida in 1965 and was named a Distinguished Alumnus of the university in 2008. He went on to receive an M.B.A. from the New York University Stern School of Business in 1969. In 1965, he was initiated into the Alpha Phi chapter of Alpha Kappa Psi.\n\nHe served as the Chief Executive Officer of Bealls from 1994 to August 2006, and he has served as its Chairman since 1994.\n\nHe is a former Chairman of the Florida Chamber of Commerce. He sits on the Board of Directors of NextEra Energy since 1989, FPL Group since 1989, SunTrust Banks since 2004, the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association of Florida, and the National Retail Federation. He has served on the Florida Council of 100.\n"}
{"id": "27881798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27881798", "title": "Rosen Plevneliev", "text": "Rosen Plevneliev\n\nRosen Asenov Plevneliev (; born 14 May 1964) is a Bulgarian politician who was the 4th President of Bulgaria from January 2012 to January 2017. He was the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works from July 2009 to September 2011 as part of the cabinet of Boyko Borisov. In October 2011, Plevneliev was elected as President in a second round of voting; he was inaugurated on 18 January 2012.\n\nRosen Plevneliev was born in Gotse Delchev. His mother, Slavka Plevnelieva, was a teacher, and his father, Asen Plevneliev, was an activist of the Communist Party. He relocated to Blagoevgrad alongside his parents when he turned 10 years old. His family descended from Bulgarian refugees from southern Macedonia who resettled from today's village of Petrousa in the municipality of Prosotsani in Drama regional unit, Greek Macedonia, in 1913. The Plevneliev family name refers to the Bulgarian name of the village Petroussa, Plevnya (Плевня, \"barn\").\n\nPlevneliev studied at Blagoevgrad Mathematical and Natural Sciences High School, from which he graduated in 1982. In 1989 he graduated from the Higher Mechanical-Electrotechnical Institute, Sofia, and in the same year become a fellow at the Institute for Microprocessing Technology, Pravets. While studying in the university, he was a Komsomol member of the Bulgarian Communist Party. After the political changes, in 1990, Plevneliev started a private building company in Bulgaria. Among other projects, the company built the Sofia Business Park.\n\nHe was married to the journalist Yuliyana Plevnelieva; they had three sons: Filip, Asen and Pavel. One of the sons, Filip, died in 2015 at the age of 14. In addition to his native Bulgarian, he speaks English and German fluently.\n\nPlevneliev became Minister of Regional Development and Public Works under Deputy Prime Minister Simeon Djankov on 27 July 2009. Minister Plevneliev was one of a handful of \"reformers\" in the government, together with Deputy Prime Minister Simeon Djankov, the Minister of Economy Traicho Traikov and the Minister of Environment Nona Karadzhova.\n\nHe was announced as GERB's candidate for President of Bulgaria on 4 September 2011. He subsequently won the presidential election in a second round held on 30 October 2011, with a majority of 52.58% of the vote. He defeated Ivaylo Kalfin from the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the second round. He took the presidential oath on 19 January 2012 and officially took over from his predecessor Georgi Parvanov on 22 January 2012. Among his priorities are administrative reforms, energy efficiency and energy independence and removing of ambassadors of Bulgaria in foreign countries who have served as secret agents during the Communist regime.\n\nAs a result of the 2013 Bulgarian protests against monopoly and high electricity prices, the conservative government of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov tendered its resignation on 20 February 2013. President Plevneliev, acting in accordance with the constitution, offered a mandate to form a new government within the term of the current Parliament to GERB, BSP and DPS but after each of them declined, Plevneliev appointed a caretaker government on 13 March 2013, with Marin Raykov, the Bulgarian ambassador in Paris as Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs.\n\nIn 2013, due to the prolonged protests against the involvement of oligarchy in politics and the government, Plevneliev organised the 'Dialogue with citizens' initiative, which involved three debates, focused on market economy, the judicial system and media freedom.\n\nPlevneliev advocates for closer relations between Bulgaria and the People's Republic of China.\n\nPlevneliev has frequently criticized the immigration policy in the UK set by the former Prime Minister, David Cameron.\n\nBy appointing the Bliznashki Government on 6 August 2014, Plevneliev has become the first President of Bulgaria to appoint more than one caretaker government.\n\nIn January 2014 the tax authorities launched an investigation on President Rosen Plevneliev and his relatives. This action was perceived as politically motivated assault by the Oresharski Government. Other reformist members of the Boyko Borisov government were also subject to such investigations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3718947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3718947", "title": "Ryoei Saito", "text": "Ryoei Saito\n\nHe was noted for his purchase of expensive art. Specifically, at consecutive auctions by Christie's and Sotheby's in New York in mid May 1990, Saito bought Van Gogh's \"Portrait of Dr. Gachet\" and Renoir's Bal du moulin de la Galette for $82.5 and $78.1 million, repectively. At the time, these were the two most expensive paintings sold, either at auction or through private sales. Taking inflation in account, they remained the two most expensive paintings until the private sale of Klimt's Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I in June 2006. It took 25 years before Saito's public auction price was broken, through the sale of Picasso's Les Femmes d'Alger (\"Version O\") at Christie's, New York, in May 2015. \n\nSaito died of a stroke six years after his acquisitions. Three year later, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, after failing to locate the Van Gogh for an exhibition, expressed concern that both paintings may have been cremated with the owner, since Saito had mentioned in the early 1990s, after having to pay $24m in taxes for them, that it would be better to do so, in order to avoid colossal death duties for his children. Only in 2007 it became publicly known that the painting had been sold in 1997 or 1998 to the Austrian-born investment fund manager Wolfgang Flöttl.\n"}
{"id": "22365485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22365485", "title": "Supercapitalism (concept in Italian Fascism)", "text": "Supercapitalism (concept in Italian Fascism)\n\nSupercapitalism was a concept that developed in Italian Fascism. Italy's Fascist leader, Benito Mussolini, claimed that at the stage of supercapitalism, \"a capitalist enterprise, when difficulties arise, throws itself like a dead weight into the state's arms. It is then that state intervention begins and becomes more necessary. It is then that those who once ignored the state now seek it out anxiously.\" To Mussolini, the capitalism of his time had degenerated from original capitalism, which he called dynamic or heroic capitalism (1830–1870) to static capitalism (1870–1914) and then finally to decadent capitalism or supercapitalism, which began in 1914. In 1933, Benito Mussolini declared Italian Fascism's opposition to supercapitalism. \n\nMussolini thought of the Marxist socialist system in terms of State Supercapitalism. According to Mussolini there were four types of state intervention, the first one was the one of the liberal states, this is the most used in supercapitalism, in most cases being a disorganized and sporadic intervention. The second one was the one used by communists in its State Supercapitalism. And the third one was the one used in the US which he considered as a combination of the first two State Intervention systems. \n\nMussolini argued that although Italian Fascism did not support dynamic and heroic capitalism, he appreciated it for its contribution to industrialism and technical developments but claimed that he did not support or appreciate supercapitalism, which he claimed was incompatible with Italy's agricultural sector. Mussolini strongly criticized this stage of supercapitalism, saying:\n\nAt this stage, supercapitalism finds its inspiration and its justification in a utopia: the utopia of unlimited consumption. Supercapitalism's ideal is the standardization of the human race from the cradle to the grave. Supercapitalism wants all babies to be born exactly the same length so that the cradles can be standardized and all children persuaded to like the same toys. It wants all men to don the very same uniform, to read the same book, to have the same tastes in films, and to desire the same so-called labor-saving devices. This is not the result of caprice. It inheres in the logic of events, for only thus can supercapitalism make its plans.\n"}
{"id": "48849657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48849657", "title": "Traditionalist Worker Party", "text": "Traditionalist Worker Party\n\nThe Traditionalist Worker Party (TWP) was a neo-Nazi, white nationalist group based in the United States. Established in 2013 by Matthew Heimbach under the name Traditionalist Youth Network (TYN), the group promotes white separatism and a white supremacist view of Christianity. Part of the neo-Nazi Nationalist Front, the TWP has held a number of protests and other local events. Since 2015, the group also operated as a political party to run in elections for local office.\n\nIn April 2018, \"The Washington Post\" reported that the TWP had been disbanded the previous month after group leader Matthew Heimbach's arrest for battery and his falling out with co-founder Matt Parrott.\n\nThe Traditionalist Youth Network was established in May 2013 by Matthew Heimbach and Matt Parrott. Heimbach has been a white supremacist activist since fall 2011, when he formed a group at Towson University in Maryland and invited the white supremacist Jared Taylor to speak at Towson's campus. The following year, Heimbach founded a \"White Student Union\" on campus, adopting racist and antisemitic views. In spring 2013, upon graduation, Heimbach established the Traditionalist Youth Network in partnership with Parrot, who founded a white supremacist group, Hoosier Nation, in Indiana around 2009. The group eventually became a chapter of American Third Position (later known as the American Freedom Party).\n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), which tracks extremist groups, has designated the Traditionalist Worker Party as a hate group and has written of Heimbach: \"Considered by many to be the face of a new generation of white nationalists... Since graduating in the spring of 2013, he has entrenched himself further in the white nationalist movement and become a regular speaker on the radical-right lecture circuit.\"\n\nIn January 2015 the TYN established the Traditionalist Worker Party (TWP) as its political-party offshoot in preparation for the 2016 elections, and a small group of candidates from the far right announced plans to run under its banner. The party states that it stands against \"economic exploitation, federal tyranny, and anti-Christian degeneracy\". The group's strategy differs from that of the American Freedom Party (AFP), a different fringe group: while the AFP \"has long run presidential candidates with no hope of success\" in order to \"exploit the election cycle as a way to raise money and generate publicity for their racist positions, TWP actually hopes to win by running for local offices in small communities.\"\n\nOn April 22, 2016, the Traditionalist Worker Party formed a coalition with several other organizations called the Aryan Nationalist Alliance. The Aryan Nationalist Alliance later changed its name to Nationalist Front. Its aim was to unite white supremacist, neo-Confederate, and white nationalist groups under a common umbrella. The coalition was joined by the neo-Nazi National Socialist Movement (NSM), neo-confederate League of the South, the neo-Nazi Vanguard America, and four other groups.\n\nIn April 2017, the group organized the white supremacist rally in Pikeville, Kentucky which attracted 100 to 125 supporters. In August 2017, the affiliated groups participated in the Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. In October 2017, the Nationalist Front was a key organizer of the \"White Lives Matter\" rally in Shelbyville and Murfreesboro, Tennessee. Participating groups included: NSM, TWP, League of the South, Vanguard America, The Right Stuff, and Anti-Communist Action.\n\nOn March 13, 2018, Heimbach was arrested in Paoli, Indiana on charges of domestic battery arising from an alleged attack against spokesman Parrott and Heimbach's wife, who was also Parrott's stepdaughter. Following this, Parrott shut down the TWP's websites and said he planned to delete membership data, citing privacy concerns. According to Parrott, the TWP no longer existed, as the incident had destroyed the group's credibility. Days later, however, Parrott filed a sworn declaration in court (in an ongoing federal civil lawsuit over the Unite the Right rally in 2017), stating that he had not deleted or destroyed the membership information, as it was relevant to the ongoing litigation.\n\nHeimbach and his group advocate white separatism, and the group also adheres to a white nationalist and white supremacist ideology. Heimbach and Parrott are \"self-declared ethnonationalists\" who aim to create a separate white ethnostate. The group specifically promotes a white supremacist interpretation of Christianity, recruiting members to battle what it terms \"anti-Christian degeneracy.\" The group supports the prohibition of abortion, restrictions on immigration, and ultimately the carrying out of what Heimbach describes as \"peaceful secessionist projects.\" Heimbach has been described in media reports as an \"alt-right personality\".\n\nThe SPLC describes the group's ideology as being \"virulently racist and anti-Semitic.\" Both the SPLC and the Anti-Defamation League note that the group is modeled after the European Identitarian movement. The TWP proclaims itself to be \"against modernism, individualism, globalism and Marxism.\" The group identifies itself as an anti-capitalist organization and it connects this position to its advocacy of nationalism stating \"For us, to be anti-capitalist is to be a nationalist. Nationalism is a bulwark against capitalist exploitation and globalism.\"\n\nIn 2016, Heimbach hailed the British vote to leave the European Union as \"the greatest European nationalist victory since 1933,\" the year of the Nazi rise to power in Germany. In 2016, the TWP and the \"Barnes Review\", a Holocaust denial publication, announced a partnership to promote each other.\n\nTraditionalist Youth Networks's only active university chapter is at the Indiana University Bloomington; this group is led by a white-supremacist activist Thomas Buhls, who has been affiliated with the Harrison, Arkansas-based Knights Party, a Klan group. In December 2016, the group's founder Heimbach claimed that it had some three dozen active chapters and 500 members across the United States; analysts at the Southern Poverty Law Center and Anti-Defamation League state that these numbers are likely exaggerated. The SPLC's 2017 annual report identifies the TWP as having chapters in Paoli and Bloomington, Indiana; Benson, North Carolina, and Wisconsin, and the affiliated Traditionalist Worker Party as having chapters in Paoli and Columbus, Indiana; Sacramento, California; Louisville, Madisonville, and Murray, Kentucky; Kansas; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Dallas, Texas; and Virginia.\n\nIn August 2013 the group protested a leftist bookstore in Bloomington, Indiana; in October 2013, the group held rallies protesting campus speeches by anti-racist educator Tim Wise.\n\nIn September 2013 the group, as Traditionalist Youth Network, held an event in Corunna, Michigan in support of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad's government. The group initially planned as a \"Koran BBQ\" that would feature the burning of copies of the Qur'an and pictures of Muhammad to show \"Islamic immigrants and citizens alike that they are not welcome here in Michigan\", but changed to a pro-Assad protest after the U.S. government announced its plans to support Syrian rebels. Heimbach told MLive that he did not regret the group's original plan and that the group supported Islam \"when it's in its own home in the Middle East.\"\n\nIn 2014 the group filed an amicus brief in a federal court in Michigan in the case of \"DeBoer v. Snyder\". In its brief, the group took a stance against same-sex marriage, which Parrott described as part of \"the Leftists [sic] social engineering campaign to destroy every last vestige of Western civilization.\" Later the same year, the group filed a second amicus brief in a case in Maryland challenging a law prohibiting assault weapons; in a four-page filing, the TYN stated that it opposed \"the enemy of freedom—the Culture Distorter—in its sights and wishes to shoot down unconstitutional legislation that disarms our people\".\n\nIn July 2015 the group called for the filing of hate-crime charges in connection with the beating of a white man in Fountain Square, Cincinnati. The local prosecutor, Hamilton County Prosecutor Joe Deters, stated that there was no evidence of ethnic intimidation in the crime.\n\nAt a March 2016 Donald Trump rally at the Kentucky International Convention Center in Louisville, Heimbach was caught on film shoving a black woman who was protesting Trump. Heimbach and two other men was initially charged with misdemeanor harassment with physical contact and was served with a criminal summons in April 2017. The charge was later amended to second-degree disorderly conduct; in June 2017, Heimbach entered an \"Alford\" plea, a form of guilty plea. Heimbach was fined $145, was ordered to attend anger management classes, and was sentenced to 90 days in jail; the jail sentence was suspended on the condition that Heimbach not commit another crime within two years. In 2018, after Heimbach was charged with misdemeanor battery and felony domestic battery in Indiana in a separate case, Heimbach's probation in the Kentucky case was revoked and he was sent to jail for 38 days.\n\nIn a separate civil case, Heimbach is being sued in federal court for assault and battery by the woman he accosted at the March 2016 rally, Kashiya Nwanguma, and two of her fellow protesters, Henry Brousseau and Molly Shah, who allege that they were also the victims of violence at the rally. Also named as defendants are Alvin Bamberger (who is accused of assault and battery) and Donald Trump and Trump's campaign (who are accused of incitement to riot, negligence, and vicarious liability). In the case, Heimbach, who is representing himself, said that he \"relied on Trump's authority\" in order to oust the woman from the rally, citing Trump's directive to \"Get 'em out of here\" and promise to \"pay for the legal fees\" of supporters who expelled dissidents from rallies. On this basis, Heimbach has filed court papers seeking indemnity from Trump.\n\nIn November 2017, the group created an online crowdfunding platform called \"GoyFundMe\" for racists, white supremacists and other extremists with the objective of advancing their causes.\n\nTwitter suspended the account of Matt Heimbach on January 3, 2017. The account for the group itself was suspended from Twitter on December 18, 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92025", "title": "United States antitrust law", "text": "United States antitrust law\n\nUnited States Antitrust law is a collection of federal and state government laws that regulates the conduct and organization of business corporations, generally to promote fair competition for the benefit of consumers. (The concept is called competition law in other English-speaking countries.) The main statutes are the Sherman Act of 1890, the Clayton Act of 1914 and the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914. These Acts, first, restrict the formation of cartels and prohibit other collusive practices regarded as being in restraint of trade. Second, they restrict the mergers and acquisitions of organizations that could substantially lessen competition. Third, they prohibit the creation of a monopoly and the abuse of monopoly power.\n\nThe Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, state governments and private parties who are sufficiently affected may all bring actions in the courts to enforce the antitrust laws. The scope of antitrust laws, and the degree to which they should interfere in an enterprise's freedom to conduct business, or to protect smaller businesses, communities and consumers, are strongly debated. One view, mostly closely associated with the \"Chicago School of economics\" suggests that antitrust laws should focus solely on the benefits to consumers and overall efficiency, while a broad range of legal and economic theory sees the role of antitrust laws as also controlling economic power in the public interest.\n\nAlthough \"trust\" has a specific legal meaning (where one person holds property for the benefit of another), in the late 19th century the word was commonly used to denote big business, because that legal instrument was frequently used to effect a combination of companies. Large manufacturing conglomerates emerged in great numbers in the 1880s and 1890s, and were perceived to have excessive economic power. The Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 began a shift towards federal rather than state regulation of big business. It was followed by the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914 and the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914, the Robinson–Patman Act of 1936, and the Celler–Kefauver Act of 1950.\n\nAt this time hundreds of small short-line railroads were being bought up and consolidated into giant systems. (Separate laws and policies emerged regarding railroads and financial concerns such as banks and insurance companies.) People for strong antitrust laws argued that, in order for the American economy to be successful, it would require free competition and the opportunity for individual Americans to build their own businesses. As Senator John Sherman put it, \"If we will not endure a king as a political power we should not endure a king over the production, transportation, and sale of any of the necessaries of life.\" Congress passed the Sherman Antitrust Act almost unanimously in 1890, and it remains the core of antitrust policy. The Act prohibits agreements in restraint of trade and abuse of monopoly power. It gives the Justice Department the mandate to go to federal court for orders to stop illegal behavior or to impose remedies.\n\nPublic officials during the Progressive Era put passing and enforcing strong antitrust high on their agenda. President Theodore Roosevelt sued 45 companies under the Sherman Act, while William Howard Taft sued 75. In 1902, Roosevelt stopped the formation of the Northern Securities Company, which threatened to monopolize transportation in the Northwest (see \"Northern Securities Co. v. United States\").\nOne of the more well known trusts was the Standard Oil Company; John D. Rockefeller in the 1870s and 1880s had used economic threats against competitors and secret rebate deals with railroads to build what was called a monopoly in the oil business, though some minor competitors remained in business. In 1911 the Supreme Court agreed that in recent years (1900–1904) Standard had violated the Sherman Act (see \"Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey v. United States\"). It broke the monopoly into three dozen separate companies that competed with one another, including Standard Oil of New Jersey (later known as Exxon and now ExxonMobil), Standard Oil of Indiana (Amoco), Standard Oil Company of New York (Mobil, again, later merged with Exxon to form ExxonMobil), of California (Chevron), and so on. In approving the breakup the Supreme Court added the \"rule of reason\": not all big companies, and not all monopolies, are evil; and the courts (not the executive branch) are to make that decision. To be harmful, a trust had to somehow damage the economic environment of its competitors.\n\nUnited States Steel Corporation, which was much larger than Standard Oil, won its antitrust suit in 1920 despite never having delivered the benefits to consumers that Standard Oil did. In fact, it lobbied for tariff protection that reduced competition, and so contending that it was one of the \"good trusts\" that benefited the economy is somewhat doubtful. Likewise International Harvester survived its court test, while other monopolies were broken up in tobacco, meatpacking, and bathtub fixtures. Over the years hundreds of executives of competing companies who met together illegally to fix prices went to federal prison.\n\nIn 1914 Congress passed the Clayton Act, which prohibited specific business actions (such as price discrimination and tying) if they substantially lessened competition. At the same time Congress established the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), whose legal and business experts could force business to agree to \"consent decrees\", which provided an alternative mechanism to police antitrust.\n\nAmerican hostility to big business began to decrease after the Progressive Era. For example, Ford Motor Company dominated auto manufacturing, built millions of cheap cars that put America on wheels, and at the same time lowered prices, raised wages, and promoted manufacturing efficiency. Welfare capitalism made large companies an attractive place to work; new career paths opened up in middle management; local suppliers discovered that big corporations were big purchasers. Talk of trust busting faded away. Under the leadership of Herbert Hoover, the government in the 1920s promoted business cooperation, fostered the creation of self-policing trade associations, and made the FTC an ally of \"respectable business\".\nDuring the New Deal, attempts were made to stop cutthroat competition. The National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) was a short-lived program in 1933–35 designed to strengthen trade associations, and raise prices, profits and wages at the same time. The Robinson-Patman Act of 1936 sought to protect local retailers against the onslaught of the more efficient chain stores, by making it illegal to discount prices. To control big business, the New Deal policymakers federal and state regulation—controlling the rates and telephone services provided by AT&T, for example—and by building up countervailing power in the form of labor unions.\n\nIn 1982 the Reagan administration used the Sherman Act to break up AT&T into one long-distance company and seven regional \"Baby Bells\", arguing that competition should replace monopoly for the benefit of consumers and the economy as a whole. The pace of business takeovers quickened in the 1990s, but whenever one large corporation sought to acquire another, it first had to obtain the approval of either the FTC or the Justice Department. Often the government demanded that certain subsidiaries be sold so that the new company would not monopolize a particular geographical market.\n\nIn 1999 a coalition of 19 states and the federal Justice Department sued Microsoft. A highly publicized trial found that Microsoft had strong-armed many companies in an attempt to prevent competition from the Netscape browser. In 2000, the trial court ordered Microsoft to split in two, preventing it from future misbehavior. The Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part. In addition, it removed the judge from the case for discussing the case with the media while it was still pending. With the case in front of a new judge, Microsoft and the government settled, with the government dropping the case in return for Microsoft agreeing to cease many of the practices the government challenged. In his defense, CEO Bill Gates argued that Microsoft always worked on behalf of the consumer and that splitting the company would diminish efficiency and slow the pace of software development.\n\nPreventing collusion and cartels that act in restraint of trade is an essential task of antitrust law. It reflects the view that each business has a duty to act independently on the market, and so earn its profits solely by providing better priced and quality products than its competitors. The Sherman Act §1 prohibits \"[e]very contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce.\" This targets two or more distinct enterprises acting together in a way that harms third parties. It does not capture the decisions of a single enterprise, or a single economic entity, even though the form of an entity may be two or more separate legal persons or companies. In \"Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp.\" it was held an agreement between a parent company and a wholly owned subsidiary could not be subject to antitrust law, because the decision took place within a single economic entity. This reflects the view that if the enterprise (as an economic entity) has not acquired a monopoly position, or has significant market power, then no harm is done. The same rationale has been extended to joint ventures, where corporate shareholders make a decision through a new company they form. In \"Texaco Inc. v. Dagher\" the Supreme Court held unanimously that a price set by a joint venture between Texaco and Shell Oil did not count as making an unlawful agreement. Thus the law draws a \"basic distinction between concerted and independent action\". Multi-firm conduct tends to be seen as more likely than single-firm conduct to have an unambiguously negative effect and \"is judged more sternly\". Generally the law identifies four main categories of agreement. First, some agreements such as price fixing or sharing markets are automatically unlawful, or illegal \"per se\". Second, because the law does not seek to prohibit every kind of agreement that hinders freedom of contract, it developed a \"rule of reason\" where a practice might restrict trade in a way that is seen as positive or beneficial for consumers or society. Third, significant problems of proof and identification of wrongdoing arise where businesses make no overt contact, or simply share information, but appear to act in concert. Tacit collusion, particularly in concentrated markets with a small number of competitors or oligopolists, have led to significant controversy over whether or not antitrust authorities should intervene. Fourth, vertical agreements between a business and a supplier or purchaser \"up\" or \"downstream\" raise concerns about the exercise of market power, however they are generally subject to a more relaxed standard under the \"rule of reason\".\n\nSome practices are deemed by the courts to be so obviously detrimental that they are categorized as being automatically unlawful, or illegal \"per se\". The simplest and central case of this is price fixing. This involves an agreement by businesses to set the price or consideration of a good or service which they buy or sell from others at a specific level. If the agreement is durable, the general term for these businesses is a cartel. It is irrelevant whether or not the businesses succeed in increasing their profits, or whether together they reach the level of having market power as might a monopoly. Such collusion is illegal \"per se\".\n\n\nBid rigging is a form of price fixing and market allocation that involves an agreement in which one party of a group of bidders will be designated to win the bid. Geographic market allocation is an agreement between competitors not to compete within each other's geographic territories.\n\n\n\nIf an antitrust claim does not fall within a \"per se\" illegal category, the plaintiff must show the conduct causes harm in \"restraint of trade\" under the Sherman Act §1 according to \"the facts peculiar to the business to which the restraint is applied\". This essentially means that unless a plaintiff can point to a clear precedent, to which the situation is analogous, proof of an anti-competitive effect is more difficult. The reason for this is that the courts have endeavoured to draw a line between practices that restrain trade in a \"good\" compared to a \"bad\" way. In the first case, \"United States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association\", the Supreme Court found that railroad companies had acted unlawfully by setting up an organisation to fix transport prices. The railroads had protested that their intention was to keep prices low, not high. The court found that this was not true, but stated that not every \"restraint of trade\" in a literal sense could be unlawful. Just as under the common law, the restraint of trade had to be \"unreasonable\". In \"Chicago Board of Trade v. United States\" the Supreme Court found a \"good\" restraint of trade. The Chicago Board of Trade had a rule that commodities traders were not allowed to privately agree to sell or buy after the market's closing time (and then finalise the deals when it opened the next day). The reason for the Board of Trade having this rule was to ensure that all traders had an equal chance to trade at a transparent market price. It plainly restricted trading, but the Chicago Board of Trade argued this was beneficial. Brandeis J., giving judgment for a unanimous Supreme Court, held the rule to be pro-competitive, and comply with the rule of reason. It did not violate the Sherman Act §1. As he put it,\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the Sherman Act 1890 initially dealt, in general, with cartels (where businesses combined their activities to the detriment of others) and monopolies (where one business was so large it could use its power to the detriment of others alone) it was recognized that this left a gap. Instead of forming a cartel, businesses could simply merge into one entity. The period between 1895 and 1904 saw a \"great merger movement\" as business competitors combined into ever more giant corporations. However upon a literal reading of Sherman Act, no remedy could be granted until a monopoly had already formed. The Clayton Act 1914 attempted to fill this gap by giving jurisdiction to prevent mergers in the first place if they would \"substantially lessen competition\".\n\nDual antitrust enforcement by the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission has long elicited concerns about disparate treatment of mergers. In response, in September 2014, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Standard Merger and Acquisition Reviews Through Equal Rules Act (\"SMARTER Act\").\n\n\n\n\n\nThe law's treatment of monopolies is potentially the strongest in the field of antitrust law. Judicial remedies can force large organizations to be broken up, be run subject to positive obligations, massive penalties may be imposed, and/or the people involved can be sentenced to jail. Under §2 of the Sherman Act 1890 every \"person who shall monopolize, or attempt to monopolize ... any part of the trade or commerce among the several States\" commits an offence. The courts have interpreted this to mean that monopoly is not unlawful \"per se\", but only if acquired through prohibited conduct. Historically, where the ability of judicial remedies to combat market power have ended, the legislature of states or the Federal government have still intervened by taking public ownership of an enterprise, or subjecting the industry to sector specific regulation (frequently done, for example, in the cases water, education, energy or health care). The law on public services and administration goes significantly beyond the realm of antitrust law's treatment of monopolies. When enterprises are not under public ownership, and where regulation does not foreclose the application of antitrust law, two requirements must be shown for the offense of monopolization. First, the alleged monopolist must possess sufficient power in an accurately defined market for its products or services. Second, the monopolist must have used its power in a prohibited way. The categories of prohibited conduct are not closed, and are contested in theory. Historically they have been held to include exclusive dealing, price discrimination, refusing to supply an essential facility, product tying and predatory pricing.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn theory, which is hotly contested, predatory pricing happens when large companies with huge cash reserves and large lines of credit stifle competition by selling their products and services at a loss for a time, to force their smaller competitors out of business. With no competition, they are then free to consolidate control of the industry and charge whatever prices they wish. At this point, there is also little motivation for investing in further technological research, since there are no competitors left to gain an advantage over. High barriers to entry such as large upfront investment, notably named sunk costs, requirements in infrastructure and exclusive agreements with distributors, customers, and wholesalers ensure that it will be difficult for any new competitors to enter the market, and that if any do, the trust will have ample advance warning and time in which to either buy the competitor out, or engage in its own research and return to predatory pricing long enough to force the competitor out of business. Critics argue that the empirical evidence shows that \"predatory pricing\" does not work in practice and is better defeated by a truly free market than by antitrust laws (see Criticism of the theory of predatory pricing).\n\n\n\nAntitrust laws do not apply to, or are modified in, several specific categories of enterprise (including sports, media, utilities, health care, insurance, banks, and financial markets) and for several kinds of actor (such as employees or consumers taking collective action).\n\nFirst, since the Clayton Act 1914 §6, there is no application of antitrust laws to agreements between employees to form or act in labor unions. This was seen as the \"Bill of Rights\" for labor, as the Act laid down that the \"labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce\". The purpose was to ensure that employees with unequal bargaining power were not prevented from combining in the same way that their employers could combine in corporations, subject to the restrictions on mergers that the Clayton Act set out. However, sufficiently autonomous workers, such as professional sports players have been held to fall within antitrust provisions.\n\nSecond, professional sports leagues enjoy a number of exemptions. Mergers and joint agreements of professional football, hockey, baseball, and basketball leagues are exempt. Major League Baseball was held to be broadly exempt from antitrust law in \"Federal Baseball Club v. National League\". Holmes J held that the baseball league's organization meant that there was no commerce between the states taking place, even though teams traveled across state lines to put on the games. That travel was merely incidental to a business which took place in each state. It was subsequently held in 1952 in \"Toolson v. New York Yankees\", and then again in 1972 \"Flood v. Kuhn\", that the baseball league's exemption was an \"aberration\". However Congress had accepted it, and favored it, so retroactively overruling the exemption was no longer a matter for the courts, but the legislature. In \"United States v. International Boxing Club of New York\", it was held that, unlike baseball, boxing was not exempt, and in \"Radovich v. National Football League (NFL)\", professional football is generally subject to antitrust laws. As a result of the AFL-NFL merger, the National Football League was also given exemptions in exchange for certain conditions, such as not directly competing with college or high school football. However, the 2010 Supreme Court ruling in American Needle Inc. v. NFL characterised the NFL as a \"cartel\" of 32 independent businesses subject to antitrust law, not a single entity.\n\nThird, antitrust laws are modified where they are perceived to encroach upon the media and free speech, or are not strong enough. Newspapers under joint operating agreements are allowed limited antitrust immunity under the Newspaper Preservation Act of 1970. More generally, and partly because of concerns about media cross-ownership in the United States, regulation of media is subject to specific statutes, chiefly the Communications Act of 1934 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, under the guidance of the Federal Communications Commission. The historical policy has been to use the state's licensing powers over the airwaves to promote plurality. Antitrust laws do not prevent companies from using the legal system or political process to attempt to reduce competition. Most of these activities are considered legal under the Noerr-Pennington doctrine. Also, regulations by states may be immune under the Parker immunity doctrine.\n\n\nFourth, the government may grant monopolies in certain industries such as utilities and infrastructure where multiple players are seen as unfeasible or impractical.\n\nFifth, insurance is allowed limited antitrust exemptions as provided by the McCarran-Ferguson Act of 1945.\n\nSixth, M&A transactions in the defense sector are often subject to greater antitrust scrutiny from the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nThe remedies for violations of U.S. antitrust laws are as broad as any equitable remedy that a court has the power to make, as well as being able to impose penalties. When private parties have suffered an actionable loss, they may claim compensation. Under the Sherman Act 1890 §7, these may be trebled, a measure to encourage private litigation to enforce the laws and act as a deterrent. The courts may award penalties under §§1 and 2, which are measured according to the size of the company or the business. In their inherent jurisdiction to prevent violations in future, the courts have additionally exercised the power to break up businesses into competing parts under different owners, although this remedy has rarely been exercised (examples include \"Standard Oil\", \"Northern Securities Company\", \"American Tobacco Company\", \"AT&T Corporation\" and, although reversed on appeal, \"Microsoft\"). Three levels of enforcement come from the Federal government, primarily through the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, the governments of states, and private parties. Public enforcement of antitrust laws is seen as important, given the cost, complexity and daunting task for private parties to bring litigation, particularly against large corporations.\n\nThe federal government, via both the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, can bring civil lawsuits enforcing the laws. The United States Department of Justice alone may bring criminal antitrust suits under federal antitrust laws. Perhaps the most famous antitrust enforcement actions brought by the federal government were the break-up of AT&T's local telephone service monopoly in the early 1980s and its actions against Microsoft in the late 1990s.\n\nAdditionally, the federal government also reviews potential mergers to attempt to prevent market concentration. As outlined by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, larger companies attempting to merge must first notify the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice's Antitrust Division prior to consummating a merger. These agencies then review the proposed merger first by defining what the market is and then determining the market concentration using the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) and each company's market share. The government looks to avoid allowing a company to develop market power, which if left unchecked could lead to monopoly power.\n\nThe United States Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission target nonreportable mergers for enforcement as well. Notably, between 2009 and 2013, 20% of all merger investigations conducted by the United States Department of Justice involved nonreportable transactions.\n\n\nDespite considerable effort by the Clinton administration, the Federal government attempted to extend antitrust cooperation with other countries for mutual detection, prosecution and enforcement. A bill was unanimously passed by the US Congress; however by 2000 only one treaty has been signed with Australia. On the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission announced it was seeking explanations from a US company, Apple Inc. In relation to potentially anticompetitive behaviour against an Australian bank in possible relation to Apple Pay. It is not known whether the treaty could influence the enquiry or outcome.\n\nIn many cases large US companies tend to deal with overseas antitrust within the overseas jurisdiction, autonomous of US laws, such as in Microsoft Corp v Commission and more recently, Google v European Union where the companies were heavily fined. Questions have been raised with regards to the consistency of antitrust between jurisdictions where the same antitrust corporate behaviour, and similar antitrust legal environment, is prosecuted in one jurisdiction but not another.\n\nState attorneys general may file suits to enforce both state and federal antitrust laws.\n\n\nPrivate civil suits may be brought, in both state and federal court, against violators of state and federal antitrust law. Federal antitrust laws, as well as most state laws, provide for triple damages against antitrust violators in order to encourage private lawsuit enforcement of antitrust law. Thus, if a company is sued for monopolizing a market and the jury concludes the conduct resulted in consumers' being overcharged $200,000, that amount will automatically be tripled, so the injured consumers will receive $600,000. The United States Supreme Court summarized why Congress authorized private antitrust lawsuits in the case \"Hawaii v. Standard Oil Co. of Cal.\", 405 U.S. 251, 262 (1972):\n\n\nThe Supreme Court calls the Sherman Antitrust Act a \"charter of freedom\", designed to protect free enterprise in America. One view of the statutory purpose, urged for example by Justice Douglas, was that the goal was not only to protect consumers, but at least as importantly to prohibit the use of power to control the marketplace.\n\nBy contrast, efficiency argue that antitrust legislation should be changed to primarily benefit consumers, and have no other purpose. Free market economist Milton Friedman states that he initially agreed with the underlying principles of antitrust laws (breaking up monopolies and oligopolies and promoting more competition), but that he came to the conclusion that they do more harm than good. Thomas Sowell argues that, even if a superior business drives out a competitor, it does not follow that competition has ended:\n\nAlan Greenspan argues that the very existence of antitrust laws discourages businessmen from some activities that might be socially useful out of fear that their business actions will be determined illegal and dismantled by government. In his essay entitled \"Antitrust,\" he says: \"No one will ever know what new products, processes, machines, and cost-saving mergers failed to come into existence, killed by the Sherman Act before they were born. No one can ever compute the price that all of us have paid for that Act which, by inducing less effective use of capital, has kept our standard of living lower than would otherwise have been possible.\" Those, like Greenspan, who oppose antitrust tend not to support competition as an end in itself but for its results—low prices. As long as a monopoly is not a coercive monopoly where a firm is securely insulated from \"potential\" competition, it is argued that the firm must keep prices low in order to discourage competition from arising. Hence, legal action is uncalled for and wrongly harms the firm and consumers.\n\nThomas DiLorenzo, an adherent of the Austrian School of economics, found that the \"trusts\" of the late 19th century were dropping their prices faster than the rest of the economy, and he holds that they were not monopolists at all. Ayn Rand, the American writer, provides a moral argument against antitrust laws. She holds that these laws in principle criminalize any person engaged in making a business successful, and, thus, are gross violations of their individual expectations. Such laissez faire advocates suggest that only a coercive monopoly should be broken up, that is the persistent, exclusive control of a vitally needed resource, good, or service such that the community is at the mercy of the controller, and where there are no suppliers of the same or substitute goods to which the consumer can turn. In such a monopoly, the monopolist is able to make pricing and production decisions without an eye on competitive market forces and is able to curtail production to price-gouge consumers. Laissez-faire advocates argue that such a monopoly can only come about through the use of physical coercion or fraudulent means by the corporation or by government intervention and that there is no case of a coercive monopoly ever existing that was not the result of government policies.\n\nJudge Robert Bork's writings on antitrust law (particularly \"The Antitrust Paradox\"), along with those of Richard Posner and other law and economics thinkers, were heavily influential in causing a shift in the U.S. Supreme Court's approach to antitrust laws since the 1970s, to be focused solely on what is best for the consumer rather than the company's practices.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56908494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56908494", "title": "William Tanuwijaya", "text": "William Tanuwijaya\n\nWilliam Tanuwijaya (Pematang Siantar November 11, 1981) is an Indonesian entrepreneur. He is the co-founder of Tokopedia, an online e-Commerce platform. Tanuwijaya represents Indonesia as Young Global Leader, at World Economic Forum.\n\nTanuwijaya was born in Pematang Siantar, North Sumatra. He graduated from high school there, His family was middle income who supported his education. William went to college at Universitas Bina Nusantara (Binus) Jakarta. William married Felicia H.W. on November 28, 2015.\n\nTo pay for college William worked part time. He worked in an internet cafe twelve hours a day until he graduated in 2003. He then worked as a software developer in companies including TelkomSigma and Sqiva Sistem. He later worked as a game developer at Bolehnet. In 2006 Tanuwijaya worked as IT and Business Development Manager at Indocom Mediatama. \n\nIn 2007 William started to build Tokopedia, He asked his friend Leontinus Alpha Edison to join him as co-founder, an e-commerce startup that connects Indonesian buyers and sellers for free. At the same time his father was diagnosed with cancer. William has supported his family since that time.\n\nWilliam is one of the founders of Indonesia eCommerce Association (IdEA) and serves as a member of its supervisory board.\n\nOn February 6, 2009, Tokopedia officially launched. At that year's Indonesia Celebration of Independence on August 17 Tokopedia opened for public access. In October 2014, Tokopedia received USD $100 Million from Softbank Internet and Media and Sequoia Capital. In 2016 Tanuwijaya represented Indonesia as a Young Global Leader at the World Economic Forum. Tokopedia announced its next stage of investment on August 17, 2017 for USD $1.1 Billion, from Alibaba Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "439355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=439355", "title": "Windows Management Instrumentation", "text": "Windows Management Instrumentation\n\nWindows Management Instrumentation (WMI) consists of a set of extensions to the Windows Driver Model that provides an operating system interface through which instrumented components provide information and notification. WMI is Microsoft's implementation of the Web-Based Enterprise Management (WBEM) and Common Information Model (CIM) standards from the Distributed Management Task Force (DMTF).\n\nWMI allows scripting languages (such as VBScript or Windows PowerShell) to manage Microsoft Windows personal computers and servers, both locally and remotely. WMI comes preinstalled in Windows 2000 and in newer Microsoft OSes. It is available as a download for Windows NT, Windows 95 and Windows 98.\n\nMicrosoft also provides a command-line interface to WMI called Windows Management Instrumentation Command-line (WMIC).\n\nThe purpose of WMI is to define a proprietary set of environment-independent specifications which allow management information to be shared between management applications. WMI prescribes enterprise management standards and related technologies for Windows that work with existing management standards, such as Desktop Management Interface (DMI) and SNMP. WMI complements these other standards by providing a uniform model. This model represents the managed environment through which management data from any source can be accessed in a common way.\n\nBecause WMI abstracts the manageable entities with CIM and a collection of providers, the development of a provider implies several steps. The major steps can be summarized as follows:\n\n\nSince the release of the first WMI implementation during the Windows NT 4.0 SP4 era (as an out-of-band download), Microsoft has consistently added WMI providers to Windows:\n\n\nMany customers have interpreted the growth in numbers of providers as a sign that WMI has become at Microsoft the \"ubiquitous\" management layer of Windows, even if Microsoft has never made this commitment explicit.\n\nBecause of a constant increasing exposure of management data through WMI in Windows, people in the IT systems management field started to develop scripts and automation procedures based on WMI. Beyond the scripting needs, most leading management-software packages, such as MOM, SCCM, ADS, HP OpenView for Windows (HPOV), BMC Software or CA, Inc. are WMI-enabled and capable of consuming and providing WMI information through various \"User Interfaces\". This enables administrators and operators not capable of scripting or programming on top of WMI to enjoy the benefits of WMI without even learning about it. However, if they want to, because WMI is scriptable, it gives them the opportunity to consume WMI information from scripts or from any WMI-aware enterprise-management software.\n\nFor someone willing to develop one or many WMI providers, WMI offers many features out of the box. Here are the most important advantages:\n\n\nSome WMI tools can also be useful during the design and development phases. These tools are:\n\n\nIn the .NET framework, the ManagementClass class represents a Common Information Model (CIM) management class. A WMI class can be a Win32_LogicalDisk in the case of a disk drive, or a Win32_Process, such as a running program like Notepad.exe.\n\nThis example shows how \"MSNdis_80211_ServiceSetIdentifier\" WMI class is used to find the SSID of the Wi-Fi network that the system is currently connected to in the language C#:\n\nThe \"MSNdis_80211_ServiceSetIdentifier\" WMI class is only supported on Windows XP and Windows Server 2003.\n\nThe WMI extensions to WDM provide kernel-level instrumentation such as publishing information, configuring device settings, supplying event notification from device drivers and allowing administrators to set data security through a WMI provider known as the \"WDM provider\". The extensions are part of the WDM architecture; however, they have broad utility and can be used with other types of drivers as well (such as SCSI and NDIS). The WMI Driver Extensions service monitors all drivers and event trace providers that are configured to publish WMI or event trace information. Instrumented hardware data is provided by way of drivers instrumented for WMI extensions for WDM. WMI extensions for WDM provide a set of Windows device driver interfaces for instrumenting data within the driver models native to Windows, so OEMs and IHVs can easily extend the instrumented data set and add value to a hardware/software solution. The WMI Driver Extensions, however, are not supported by Windows Vista and later operating systems.\n\n"}
