{"id": "22934387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22934387", "title": "American Club (eikaiwa)", "text": "American Club (eikaiwa)\n\nThough the company primarily operated as an English school in the 1980s and '90s, according to its business registration it is also involved in numerous other business activities such as restaurants and bars, athletic clubs, hotels, printing/publishing, video and software rental and employment services.\n\nThe American Club began operating on July 15, 1986, and recruited students for English classes during the Japanese asset price bubble economy of the late 1980s and early 1990s. The classes were mainly taught by native English-speaking teachers from the U.S., Canada, Great Britain, Australia and New Zealand. At its peak, it had a main school in Utsunomiya, and six branch schools in Mibu, Mooka, Oyama, Tochigi City (all in Tochigi Prefecture), Koga (in Ibaraki Prefecture) and Sendai (in Miyagi Prefecture).\n\nAfter the burst of Japan's bubble economy in the early 1990s, the American Club began to suffer. In summer 1994, employees' wages were late. By October of that year, the school had stopped paying wages at all.\n\nThough the school had serious problems making its payroll between 1994 and 1996,\n\nSugimoto was the landlord of the American Club spaces in Utsunomiya, and collected rent from the American Club through another company he owns, Mimasu Shoji, when the schools' teachers and secretaries were not being paid.\n\nBy December 1995 the school was again three months late paying employees' wages. By this time Sugimoto had legally resigned his position as president of the company, and Konno became its president. However, on the business registrations for the Oyama and Mooka schools, Sugimoto's name was the only one listed as being responsible for the school.\n\nAfter the 1996 New Year's holidays, Konno fled. In a letter to an American Club employee he claimed Sugimoto had threatened him and his (Konno's) wife with harassment from sound trucks operated by right wing organizations if Konno tried to declare bankruptcy for the American Club. In the letter Konno explained that because Sugimoto relied on the financial solvency of the American Club in order to obtain business loans, he (Sugimoto) could not afford to have the American Club be declared bankrupt by its own president.\n\nAfter this, Yasuki Yamauchi of Fukuoka City, more than 1,000 kilometers from Utsunomiya, assumed legal responsibility for the school. According to a January 25, 1996 article on the American Club in the \"Asahi Shinbun\", a reporter from the newspaper made a call to the company's phone number in Fukuoka, but the person who answered the phone hung up on the reporter. None of the teachers met Yamauchi, and with no one coming forward to take charge of the company, the teachers eventually stopped working for it. However, after the American Club stopped holding English classes in 1996, Sugimoto continued to run IBL (which was government-supported).\n\nA second lawsuit was filed by employees for three months in unpaid wages in January 1996, but none of the company's directors showed up in court and they ignored the subsequent court order to pay. Eventually the employees received 80% of their back wages through the Labor Standards Office of the Japanese government.\n\nWith no income received after three months, many teachers returned to their home countries. The total amount of delinquent wages owed all employees during the lawsuits totaled the equivalent of more than US$100,000. Also, students, who had paid in advance for as much as a year's worth of classes, lost an undetermined amount of money. In addition, rent on the company’s spaces in branch schools, as well as rent on the teachers’ apartments (which had been deducted by the company from teachers’ pay) was as much as a year in arrears by the time of the second lawsuit.\n\nDuring the course of the second lawsuit, in January 1996, articles were run in the local edition of Japanese language newspapers: The Asahi Shinbun and the Shimotsuke Shinbun. Articles were also run by a local English language newspaper: Networking (now defunct). The Networking articles outlined the root causes of the lawsuits (specifically the events leading up to the first lawsuit) and focused on the immigrant employees involved. Later, several letters and essays MacLaren wrote were published in journals such as BusinessWeek and The Japan Times. MacLaren also provided The Japan Times with a list of organizations he had contacted in order to help resolve the pay problems, which the newspaper subsequently published on numerous occasions.\n\nThough published news reports indicated the American Club was closed, and its directors ignored a court summons and subsequent court order to pay wages in the second lawsuit, its business registration indicates the company is still a legally operating entity, with 30 million yen in equity.\n\nThe business registration indicates that the Shimotsuke Shinbun, a newspaper that ran stories on the lawsuits, advertises American Club's services in its pages.\n"}
{"id": "4280085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4280085", "title": "Armand V. Feigenbaum", "text": "Armand V. Feigenbaum\n\nArmand Vallin Feigenbaum (April 6, 1920 – November 13, 2014) was an American quality control expert and businessman. He devised the concept of Total Quality Control which inspired Total Quality Management (TQM).\n\nFeigenbaum received a bachelor's degree from Union College, his master's degree from the MIT Sloan School of Management, and his Ph.D. in Economics from MIT. He was Director of Manufacturing Operations at General Electric (1958–1968), and was later the President and CEO of General Systems Company of Pittsfield, Massachusetts, an engineering firm that helps companies define business operating systems. Feigenbaum wrote several books and served as President of the American Society for Quality (1961–1963). On November 13, 2014, he died at the age of 94.\n\nHis contributions to the quality body of knowledge include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29191358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29191358", "title": "Badr Jafar", "text": "Badr Jafar\n\nBadr Jafar () is an Emirati business executive and social entrepreneur based in the United Arab Emirates. He is the Chief Executive Officer of Crescent Enterprises, a diversified global business with operations in several sectors including ports and logistics, power and engineering; corporate venture capital and business incubation. , Crescent Enterprises has 22 operating subsidiaries in 18 countries and employs 4,591 people. \n\nJafar is also the President of Crescent Enterprises' sister company Crescent Petroleum, a privately-owned oil and gas company headquartered in the United Arab Emirates. He is Chairman of Pearl Petroleum, a five-member international consortium for the development of natural gas assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, and Chairman of the Executive Board of Gulftainer, a global ports and logistics company.\n\nHe launched the Pearl Initiative in September 2010 at the United Nations, a private sector-led initiative to promote corporate governance, accountability and transparency within the Gulf region of the Middle East. In 2011, Jafar was named a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum and is co-chair of the Forum's Family Business Community, a member of their Stewardship Board on Economic Progress and a member of the Global Future Council on the Humanitarian System.\n\nIn May 2015, Badr Jafar was appointed by the United Nations Secretary General onto a committee for Humanitarian Financing, formed \"to address the increasing gap between resources and financing for the world's ever-increasing humanitarian needs.\"\n\nHe was named one of the top 20 most influential Arabs by \"Arabian Business\" in 2017. \n\nBadr Jafar was born and raised in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. In 1994 he continued his education at Eton College, and graduated in 1999 from Cambridge University with a master's degree in engineering and additional studies in astrophysics. In 1996, Harvard University awarded Jafar the Harvard Book Award, presented to students who \"display excellence in scholarship and high character, combined with achievements in other fields.\" Jafar subsequently attended the Cambridge Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge.\n\nJafar serves as member of the Advisory Boards of Cambridge University Judge Business School, American University of Beirut and American University of Sharjah. He is also a member of the Research and Innovation Advisory Council for The Centre of Excellence for Applied Research & Training (CERT) at the Higher Colleges of Technology in Abu Dhabi. He is an appointed Foundation Fellow of Eton College.\n\nBadr Jafar is Chairman of Endeavor UAE, a member of the Global Board for Education for Employment, a Washington DC-headquartered organisation which works to train and upskill the youth of the MENA (Middle East and North Africa) region to empower them for employment, and a member on the Board of Advisors of Sharjah Entrepreneurship Centre (Sheraa). He is on the Board of Advisers of Gaza Sky Geeks, the leading startup accelerator and technology education hub in Gaza.\n\nIn 2014, Jafar launched the Arab World Social Entrepreneurship Program in partnership with Ashoka, a social entrepreneurship organisation to identify and help scale the region's most promising social businesses.\n\nIn February 2011, Badr Jafar launched the Middle East Theatre Academy (META), a non-profit theatre academy to provide a platform to nurture young actors, directors, and producers from the Middle East, and help them to showcase their talent internationally.In May 2011, Jafar and music producer Quincy Jones produced a charity single titled Tomorrow/Bokra, featuring 26 Arab artists, to raise funds for educational arts projects for displaced youth in the Middle East. The proceeds went towards the development of arts programs for over 430,000 disadvantaged children in partnership with Save The Children.\n\nIn 2014, the Kennedy Centre honoured Jafar with a Gold Medal in the Arts in recognition of his efforts with cultural diplomacy to build closer ties between nations and regions. He is now an appointed member of Kennedy Centre's Centennial Circle.\n\nIn May 2015, Badr Jafar was appointed by the United Nations Secretary General onto a committee for Humanitarian Financing, formed \"to address the increasing gap between resources and financing for the world's ever-increasing humanitarian needs.\"\n\nIn May 2018, Badr Jafar joined The Giving Pledge, a campaign to encourage wealthy people to contribute a majority of their wealth to philanthropic causes initiated by Bill Gates, Melinda Gates, and Warren Buffett.\n"}
{"id": "4695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695", "title": "Bankruptcy", "text": "Bankruptcy\n\nBankruptcy is a legal status of a person or other entity who cannot repay debts to creditors. In most jurisdictions, bankruptcy is imposed by a court order, often initiated by the debtor.\n\nBankruptcy is not the only legal status that an insolvent person may have, and the term \"bankruptcy\" is therefore not a synonym for insolvency. In some countries, such as the United Kingdom, bankruptcy is limited to individuals; other forms of insolvency proceedings (such as liquidation and administration) are applied to companies. In the United States, \"bankruptcy\" is applied more broadly to formal insolvency proceedings. In France, the cognate French word \"banqueroute\" is used solely for cases of fraudulent bankruptcy, whereas the term \"faillite\" (cognate of \"failure\") is used for bankruptcy in accordance with the law.\n\nThe word \"bankruptcy\" is derived from Italian \"banca rotta\", meaning \"broken bank\", which may stem from a widespread custom in the Republic of Genoa of breaking a moneychanger's bench or counter to signify his insolvency, or which may be only a figure of speech.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, bankruptcy did not exist. If a man owed and he could not pay, he and his wife, children or servants were forced into \"debt slavery\", until the creditor recouped losses through their physical labour. Many city-states in ancient Greece limited debt slavery to a period of five years; debt slaves had protection of life and limb, which regular slaves did not enjoy. However, servants of the debtor could be retained beyond that deadline by the creditor and were often forced to serve their new lord for a lifetime, usually under significantly harsher conditions. An exception to this rule was Athens, which by the laws of Solon forbade enslavement for debt; as a consequence, most Athenian slaves were foreigners (Greek or otherwise).\n\nThe Statute of Bankrupts of 1542 was the first statute under English law dealing with bankruptcy or insolvency. Bankruptcy is also documented in East Asia. According to al-Maqrizi, the Yassa of Genghis Khan contained a provision that mandated the death penalty for anyone who became bankrupt three times.\n\nA failure of a nation to meet bond repayments has been seen on many occasions. Philip II of Spain had to declare four state bankruptcies in 1557, 1560, 1575 and 1596. According to Kenneth S. Rogoff, \"Although the development of international capital markets was quite limited prior to 1800, we nevertheless catalog the various defaults of France, Portugal, Prussia, Spain, and the early Italian city-states. At the edge of Europe, Egypt, Russia, and Turkey have histories of chronic default as well.\"\n\nThe principal focus of modern insolvency legislation and business debt restructuring practices no longer rests on the elimination of insolvent entities, but on the remodeling of the financial and organizational structure of debtors experiencing financial distress so as to permit the rehabilitation and continuation of the business.\n\nFor private households, some argue that it is insufficient to merely dismiss debts after a certain period . It is important to assess the underlying problems and to minimize the risk of financial distress to re-occur. It has been stressed that debt advice, a supervised rehabilitation period, financial education and social help to find sources of income and to improve the management of household expenditures must be equally provided during this period of rehabilitation (Refiner \"et al.\", 2003; Gerhardt, 2009; Frade, 2010). In most EU Member States, debt discharge is conditioned by a partial payment obligation and by a number of requirements concerning the debtor's behavior. In the United States (US), discharge is conditioned to a lesser extent. The spectrum is broad in the EU, with the UK coming closest to the US system (Reifner et al., 2003; Gerhardt, 2009; Frade, 2010). The Other Member States do not provide the option of a debt discharge. Spain, for example, passed a bankruptcy law (\"ley concurs\") in 2003 which provides for debt settlement plans that can result in a reduction of the debt (maximally half of the amount) or an extension of the payment period of maximally five years (Gerhardt, 2009), but it does not foresee debt discharge.\n\nIn the US, it is very difficult to discharge federal or federally guaranteed student loan debt by filing bankruptcy. Unlike most other debts, those student loans may be discharged only if the person seeking discharge establishes specific grounds for discharge under the \"Brunner\" test, under which the court evaluates three factors:\nEven if a debtor proves all three elements, a court may permit only a partial discharge of the student loan. Student loan borrowers may benefit from restructuring their payments through a Chapter 13 bankruptcy repayment plan, but few qualify for discharge of part or all of their student loan debt.\n\nBankruptcy fraud is a white-collar crime. While difficult to generalize across jurisdictions, common criminal acts under bankruptcy statutes typically involve concealment of assets, concealment or destruction of documents, conflicts of interest, fraudulent claims, false statements or declarations, and fee fixing or redistribution arrangements. Falsifications on bankruptcy forms often constitute perjury. Multiple filings are not in and of themselves criminal, but they may violate provisions of bankruptcy law. In the U.S., bankruptcy fraud statutes are particularly focused on the mental state of particular actions. Bankruptcy fraud is a federal crime in the United States.\n\nBankruptcy fraud should be distinguished from \"strategic bankruptcy\", which is not a criminal act since it creates a real (not a fake) bankruptcy state. However, it may still work against the filer.\n\nAll assets must be disclosed in bankruptcy schedules whether or not the debtor believes the asset has a net value. This is because once a bankruptcy petition is filed, it is for the creditors, not the debtor, to decide whether a particular asset has value. The future ramifications of omitting assets from schedules can be quite serious for the offending debtor. In the United States, a closed bankruptcy may be reopened by motion of a creditor or the U.S. trustee if a debtor attempts to later assert ownership of such an \"unscheduled asset\" after being discharged of all debt in the bankruptcy. The trustee may then seize the asset and liquidate it for the benefit of the (formerly discharged) creditors. Whether or not a concealment of such an asset should also be considered for prosecution as fraud or perjury would then be at the discretion of the judge or U.S. Trustee.\n\nIn Argentina the national Act \"24.522 de Concursos y Quiebras\" regulates the Bankruptcy and the Reorganization of the individuals and companies, public entities are not included.\n\nIn Australia, bankruptcy is a status which applies to individuals and is governed by the federal \"Bankruptcy Act 1966\". Companies do not go bankrupt but rather go into liquidation or administration, which is governed by the federal \"Corporations Act 2001\".\n\nIf a person commits an act of bankruptcy, then a creditor can apply to the Federal Circuit Court or the Federal Court for a sequestration order. Acts of bankruptcy are defined in the legislation, and include the failure to comply with a bankruptcy notice. A bankruptcy notice can be issued where, among other cases, a person fails to pay a judgment debt. A person can also seek to have themself declared bankrupt by lodging a debtor's petition with the \"Official Receiver\", which is the Australian Financial Security Authority (AFSA).\n\nTo declare bankruptcy or for a creditor to lodge a petition, the debt must be at least $5,000.\n\nAll bankrupts must lodge a Statement of Affairs document with AFSA, which includes important information about their assets and liabilities. A bankruptcy cannot be annulled until this document has been lodged.\n\nOrdinarily, a bankruptcy lasts three years from the filing of the Statement of Affairs with AFSA.\n\nA Bankruptcy Trustee (in most cases, the Official Receiver) is appointed to deal with all matters regarding the administration of the bankrupt estate. The Trustee's job includes notifying creditors of the estate and dealing with creditor inquiries; ensuring that the bankrupt complies with their obligations under the Bankruptcy Act; investigating the bankrupt's financial affairs; realising funds to which the estate is entitled under the Bankruptcy Act and distributing dividends to creditors if sufficient funds become available.\n\nFor the duration of their bankruptcy, all bankrupts have certain restrictions placed upon them. For example, a bankrupt must obtain the permission of their trustee to travel overseas. Failure to do so may result in the bankrupt being stopped at the airport by the Australian Federal Police. Additionally, a bankrupt is required to provide their trustee with details of income and assets. If the bankrupt does not comply with the Trustee's request to provide details of income, the trustee may have grounds to lodge an Objection to Discharge, which has the effect of extending the bankruptcy for a further five years.\n\nThe realisation of funds usually comes from two main sources: the bankrupt's assets and the bankrupt's wages. There are certain assets that are protected, referred to as \"protected assets\". These include household furniture and appliances, tools of the trade and vehicles up to a certain value. All other assets of value are sold. If a house or car is above a certain value, the bankrupt can buy the interest back from the estate in order to keep the asset. If the bankrupt does not do this, the interest vests in the estate and the trustee is able to take possession of the asset and sell it.\n\nThe bankrupt must pay income contributions if their income is above a certain threshold. If the bankrupt fails to pay, the trustee can issue a notice to garnishee the bankrupt's wages. If that is not possible, the Trustee may seek to extend the bankruptcy for a further five years.\n\nBankruptcies can be annulled prior to the expiration of the normal three-year period if all debts are paid out in full. Sometimes a bankrupt may be able to raise enough funds to make an Offer of Composition to creditors, which would have the effect of paying the creditors some of the money they are owed. If the creditors accept the offer, the bankruptcy can be annulled after the funds are received.\n\nAfter the bankruptcy is annulled or the bankrupt has been automatically discharged, the bankrupt's credit report status is shown as \"discharged bankrupt\" for some years. The maximum number of years this information can be held is subject to the retention limits under the Privacy Act. How long such information is on a credit report may be shorter, depending on the issuing company, but the report must cease to record that information based on the criteria in the Privacy Act.\n\nIn Brazil, the Bankruptcy Law (11.101/05) governs court-ordered or out-of-court receivership and bankruptcy and only applies to public companies (publicly traded companies) with the exception of financial institutions, credit cooperatives, consortia, supplementary scheme entities, companies administering health care plans, equity companies and a few other legal entities. It does not apply to state-run companies.\n\nCurrent law covers three legal proceedings. The first one is bankruptcy itself (\"Falência\"). Bankruptcy is a court-ordered liquidation procedure for an insolvent business. The final goal of bankruptcy is to liquidate company assets and pay its creditors.\n\nThe second one is Court-ordered Restructuring (\"Recuperação Judicial\"). The goal is to overcome the business crisis situation of the debtor in order to allow the continuation of the producer, the employment of workers and the interests of creditors, leading, thus, to preserving company, its corporate function and develop economic activity. It's a court procedure required by the debtor which has been in business for more than two years and requires approval by a judge.\n\nThe Extrajudicial Restructuring (\"Recuperação Extrajudicial\") is a private negotiation that involves creditors and debtors and, as with court-ordered restructuring, also must be approved by courts.\n\nBankruptcy, also referred to as insolvency in Canada, is governed by the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act and is applicable to businesses and individuals, for example, Target Canada, the Canadian subsidiary of the Target Corporation, the second-largest discount retailer in the United States filed for bankruptcy in January 15, 2015, and closed all of its stores by April 12. The office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy, a federal agency, is responsible for overseeing that bankruptcies are administered in a fair and orderly manner by all licensed Trustees in Canada.\n\nTrustees in bankruptcy, 1041 individuals licensed to administer insolvencies, bankruptcy and proposal estates and are governed by the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act of Canada.\n\nBankruptcy is filed when a person or a company becomes insolvent and cannot pay their debts as they become due and if they have at least $1,000 in debt.\n\nIn 2011, the Superintendent of bankruptcy reported that trustees in Canada filed 127,774 insolvent estates. Consumer estates were the vast majority, with 122 999 estates. The consumer portion of the 2011 volume is divided into 77,993 bankruptcies and 45,006 consumer proposals. This represented a reduction of 8.9% from 2010. Commercial estates filed by Canadian trustees in 2011 4,775 estates, 3,643 bankruptcies and 1,132 Division 1 proposals. This represents a reduction of 8.6% over 2010.\n\nSome of the duties of the trustee in bankruptcy are to:\n\nCreditors become involved by attending creditors' meetings. The trustee calls the first meeting of creditors for the following purposes:\n\n\nIn Canada, a person can file a consumer proposal as an alternative to bankruptcy. A consumer proposal is a negotiated settlement between a debtor and their creditors.\n\nA typical proposal would involve a debtor making monthly payments for a maximum of five years, with the funds distributed to their creditors. Even though most proposals call for payments of less than the full amount of the debt owing, in most cases, the creditors accept the deal—because if they do not, the next alternative may be personal bankruptcy, in which the creditors get even less money. The creditors have 45 days to accept or reject the consumer proposal. Once the proposal is accepted by both the creditors and the Court, the debtor makes the payments to the Proposal Administrator each month (or as otherwise stipulated in their proposal), and the general creditors are prevented from taking any further legal or collection action. If the proposal is rejected, the debtor is returned to his prior insolvent state and may have no alternative but to declare personal bankruptcy.\n\nA consumer proposal can only be made by a debtor with debts to a maximum of $250,000 (not including the mortgage on their principal residence). If debts are greater than $250,000, the proposal must be filed under Division 1 of Part III of the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act. An Administrator is required in the Consumer Proposal, and a Trustee in the Division I Proposal (these are virtually the same although the terms are not interchangeable). A Proposal Administrator is almost always a licensed trustee in bankruptcy, although the Superintendent of Bankruptcy may appoint other people to serve as administrators.\n\nIn 2006, there were 98,450 personal insolvency filings in Canada: 79,218 bankruptcies and 19,232 consumer proposals.\n\nThe People's Republic of China legalized bankruptcy in 1986, and a revised law that was more expansive and complete was enacted in 2007.\n\nBankruptcy in Ireland applies only to natural persons. Other insolvency processes including liquidation and examinership are used to deal with corporate insolvency.\n\nIrish bankruptcy law has been the subject of significant comment, from both government sources and the media, as being in need of reform. Part 7 of the Civil Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2011 has started this process and the government has committed to further reform.\n\nThe Parliament of India in the first week of May 2016 passed Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (New Code). Earlier a clear law on corporate bankruptcy did not exist, even though individual bankruptcy laws have been in existence since 1874. The earlier law in force was enacted in 1920 called the Provincial Insolvency Act.\n\nThe legal definitions of the terms bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation and dissolution are contested in the Indian legal system. There is no regulation or statute legislated upon bankruptcy which denotes a condition of inability to meet a demand of a creditor as is common in many other jurisdictions.\n\nWinding up of companies was in the jurisdiction of the courts which can take a decade even after the company has actually been declared insolvent. On the other hand, supervisory restructuring at the behest of the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction is generally undertaken using receivership by a public entity.\n\nDutch bankruptcy law is governed by the Dutch Bankruptcy Code (\"Faillissementswet\"). The code covers three separate legal proceedings. \n\nFederal Law No. 127-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)\" dated 26 October 2002 (as amended) (the \"Bankruptcy Act\"), replacing the previous law in 1998, to better address the above problems and a broader failure of the action.\nRussian insolvency law is intended for a wide range of borrowers: individuals and companies of all sizes, with the exception of state-owned enterprises, government agencies, political parties and religious organizations. There are also special rules for insurance companies, professional participants of the securities market, agricultural organizations and other special laws for financial institutions and companies in the natural monopolies in the energy industry.\nFederal Law No. 40-FZ \"On Insolvency (Bankruptcy)\" dated 25 February 1999 (as amended) (the \"Insolvency Law of Credit Institutions\") contains special provisions in relation to the opening of insolvency proceedings in relation to the credit company. Insolvency Provisions Act, credit organizations used in conjunction with the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act.\n\nBankruptcy law provides for the following stages of insolvency proceedings:\n• Monitoring procedure or Supervision (nablyudeniye);\n• The economic recovery (finansovoe ozdorovleniye);\n• External control (vneshneye upravleniye);\n• Liquidation (konkursnoye proizvodstvo) and\n• Amicable Agreement (mirovoye soglasheniye).\n\nThe main face of the bankruptcy process is the insolvency officer (trustee in bankruptcy, bankruptcy manager). At various stages of bankruptcy, he must be determined: the temporary officer in Monitoring procedure, external manager in External control, the receiver or administrative officer in The economic recovery, the liquidator. During the bankruptcy trustee in bankruptcy (insolvency officer) has a decisive influence on the movement of assets (property) of the debtor - the debtor and has a key influence on the economic and legal aspects of its operations.\n\nUnder Swiss law, bankruptcy can be a consequence of insolvency. It is a court-ordered form of debt enforcement proceedings that applies, in general, to registered commercial entities only. In a bankruptcy, all assets of the debtor are liquidated under the administration of the creditors, although the law provides for debt restructuring options similar to those under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy code.\n\nIn Sweden, bankruptcy (Swedish: konkurs) is a formal process that may involve a company or individual. It is not the same as insolvency, which is inability to pay debts that should have been paid. A creditor or the company itself can apply for bankruptcy. An external bankruptcy manager takes over the company or the assets of the person, and tries to sell as much as possible. A person or a company in bankruptcy can not access its assets (with some exceptions).\n\nThe formal bankruptcy process is rarely carried out for individuals. Creditors can claim money through the Enforcement Administration anyway, and creditors do not usually benefit from the bankruptcy of individuals because there are costs of a bankruptcy manager which has priority. Unpaid debts remain after bankruptcy for individuals. People who are deeply in debt can obtain a debt arrangement procedure (Swedish: skuldsanering). On application, they obtain a payment plan under which they pay as much as they can for five years, and then all remaining debts are cancelled. Debts that derive from a ban on business operations (issued by court, commonly for tax fraud or fraudulent business practices) or owed to a crime victim as compensation for damages, are exempted from this—and, as before this process was introduced in 2006, remain lifelong. Debts that have not been claimed during a 3-10 year period are cancelled. Often crime victims stop their claims after a few years since criminals often do not have job incomes and might be hard to locate, while banks make sure their claims are not cancelled. The most common reasons for personal insolvency in Sweden are illness, unemployment, divorce or company bankruptcy.\n\nFor companies, formal bankruptcy is a normal effect of insolvency, even if there is a reconstruction mechanism where the company can be given time to solve its situation, e.g. by finding an investor. The formal bankruptcy involves contracting a bankruptcy manager, who makes certain that assets are sold and money divided by the priority the law claims, and no other way. Banks have such a priority. After a finished bankruptcy for a company, it is terminated. The activities might continue in a new company which has bought important assets from the bankrupted company.\n\nBankruptcy in the United Kingdom (in a strict legal sense) relates only to individuals (including sole proprietors) and partnerships. Companies and other corporations enter into differently named legal insolvency procedures: liquidation and administration (administration order and administrative receivership). However, the term 'bankruptcy' is often used when referring to companies in the media and in general conversation. Bankruptcy in Scotland is referred to as sequestration. To apply for bankruptcy in Scotland, an individual must have more than £1,500 of debt.\n\nA trustee in bankruptcy must be either an Official Receiver (a civil servant) or a licensed insolvency practitioner. Current law in England and Wales derives in large part from the Insolvency Act 1986. Following the introduction of the Enterprise Act 2002, a UK bankruptcy now normally last no longer than 12 months, and may be less if the Official Receiver files in court a certificate that investigations are complete. It was expected that the UK Government's liberalisation of the UK bankruptcy regime would increase the number of bankruptcy cases; initially, cases increased, as the Insolvency Service statistics appear to bear out. Since 2009, the introduction of the Debt Relief Order has resulted in a dramatic fall in bankruptcies, the latest estimates for year 2014/15 being significantly less than 30,000 cases.\n\nThe UK bankruptcy law was changed in May 2000, effective May 29, 2000. Debtors may now retain occupational pensions while in bankruptcy, except in rare cases.\n\nThe Government have updated legislation (2016) to streamline the application process for UK bankruptcy. UK residents now need to apply online for bankruptcy - there is an upfront fee of £655. The process for residents of Northern Ireland differs - applicants must follow the older process of applying through the courts.\n\nBankruptcy in the United States is a matter placed under federal jurisdiction by the United States Constitution (in Article 1, Section 8, Clause 4), which empowers Congress to enact \"uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States\". Congress has enacted statutes governing bankruptcy, primarily in the form of the Bankruptcy Code, located at Title 11 of the United States Code.\n\nA debtor declares bankruptcy to obtain relief from debt, and this is normally accomplished either through a discharge of the debt or through a restructuring of the debt. When a debtor files a voluntary petition, their bankruptcy case commences.\n\nWhile bankruptcy cases are always filed in United States Bankruptcy Court (an adjunct to the U.S. District Courts), bankruptcy cases, particularly with respect to the validity of claims and exemptions, are often dependent upon State law. A Bankruptcy Exemption defines the property a debtor may retain and preserve through bankruptcy. Certain real and personal property can be exempted on \"Schedule C\" of a debtor's bankruptcy forms, and effectively be taken outside the debtor's bankruptcy estate. Bankruptcy exemptions are available only to individuals filing bankruptcy.\n\nThere are two alternative systems that can be used to \"exempt\" property from a bankruptcy estate, federal exemptions (available in some states but not all), and state exemptions (which vary widely between states). For example, Maryland and Virginia, which are adjoining states, have different personal exemption amounts that cannot be seized for payment of debts. This amount is the first $6,000 in property or cash in Maryland, but normally only the first $5,000 in Virginia. State law therefore plays a major role in many bankruptcy cases, such that there may be significant differences in the outcome of a bankruptcy case depending upon the state in which it is filed.\n\nAfter a bankruptcy petition is filed, the court schedules a hearing called a \"341 meeting\" or \"meeting of creditors\", at which the bankruptcy trustee and creditors review the petitioner's petition and supporting schedules, question the petitioner, and can challenge exemptions they believe are improper.\n\nThere are six types of bankruptcy under the Bankruptcy Code, located at Title 11 of the United States Code:\n\nAn important feature applicable to all types of bankruptcy filings is the automatic stay. The automatic stay means that the mere request for bankruptcy protection automatically halts most lawsuits, repossessions, foreclosures, evictions, garnishments, attachments, utility shut-offs, and debt collection activity.\n\nThe most common types of personal bankruptcy for individuals are Chapter 7 and Chapter 13. Chapter 7, known as a \"straight bankruptcy\" involves the discharge of certain debts without repayment. Chapter 13, involves a plan of repayment of debts over a period of years. Whether a person qualifies for Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 is in part determined by income. As many as 65% of all U.S. consumer bankruptcy filings are Chapter 7 cases.\n\nBefore a consumer may obtain bankruptcy relief under either Chapter 7 or Chapter 13, the debtor is to undertake credit counselling with approved counseling agencies prior to filing a bankruptcy petition and to undertake education in personal financial management from approved agencies prior to being granted a discharge of debts under either Chapter 7 or Chapter 13. Some studies of the operation of the credit counseling requirement suggest that it provides little benefit to debtors who receive the counseling because the only realistic option for many is to seek relief under the Bankruptcy Code.\n\nCorporations and other business forms normally file under Chapters 7 or 11.\n\nOften called \"straight bankruptcy\" or \"simple bankruptcy,\" a Chapter 7 bankruptcy potentially allows debtors to eliminate most or all of their debts over a period of as little as three or four months. In a typical consumer bankruptcy, the only debts that survive a Chapter 7 are student loans, child support obligations, some tax bills and criminal fines. Credit cards, pay day loans, personal loans, medical bills, and just about all other bills are discharged.\n\nIn Chapter 7, a debtor surrenders non-exempt property to a bankruptcy trustee, who then liquidates the property and distributes the proceeds to the debtor's unsecured creditors. In exchange, the debtor is entitled to a discharge of some debt. However, the debtor is not granted a discharge if guilty of certain types of inappropriate behavior (e.g., concealing records relating to financial condition) and certain debts (e.g., spousal and child support and most student loans). Some taxes are not discharged even though the debtor is generally discharged from debt. Many individuals in financial distress own only exempt property (e.g., clothes, household goods, an older car, or the tools of their trade or profession) and do not have to surrender any property to the trustee. The amount of property that a debtor may exempt varies from state to state (as noted above, Virginia and Maryland have a $1,000 difference.) Chapter 7 relief is available only once in any eight-year period. Generally, the rights of secured creditors to their collateral continues, even though their debt is discharged. For example, absent some arrangement by a debtor to surrender a car or \"reaffirm\" a debt, the creditor with a security interest in the debtor's car may repossess the car even if the debt to the creditor is discharged.\n\nNinety-one percent of U.S. individuals who petition for relief under Chapter 7 hire an attorney to file their petitions. The typical cost of an attorney is $1,170.00. Alternatives to filing with an attorney are: filing pro se, hiring a non-lawyer petition preparer, or using online software to generate the petition.\n\nTo be eligible to file a consumer bankruptcy under Chapter 7, a debtor must qualify under a statutory \"means test\". The means test was intended to make it more difficult for a significant number of financially distressed individual debtors whose debts are primarily consumer debts to qualify for relief under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The \"means test\" is employed in cases where an individual with primarily consumer debts has more than the average annual income for a household of equivalent size, computed over a 180-day period prior to filing. If the individual must \"take\" the \"means test\", their average monthly income over this 180-day period is reduced by a series of allowances for living expenses and secured debt payments in a very complex calculation that may or may not accurately reflect that individual's actual monthly budget. If the results of the means test show no disposable income (or in some cases a very small amount) then the individual qualifies for Chapter 7 relief. An individual who fails the means test will have their Chapter 7 case dismissed, or may have to convert the case to a Chapter 13 bankruptcy.\n\nIf a debtor does not qualify for relief under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, either because of the Means Test or because Chapter 7 does not provide a permanent solution to delinquent payments for secured debts, such as mortgages or vehicle loans, the debtor may still seek relief under Chapter 13 of the Code. A Chapter 13 plan often does not require repayment to general unsecured debts, such as credit cards or medical bills.\n\nGenerally, a trustee sells most of the debtor's assets to pay off creditors. However, certain debtor assets will be protected to some extent by bankruptcy exemptions. These include Social Security payments, unemployment compensation, limited equity in a home, car, or truck, household goods and appliances, trade tools, and books. However, these exemptions vary from state to state.\n\nIn Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the debtor retains ownership and control of assets and is re-termed a debtor in possession (DIP). The debtor in possession runs the day-to-day operations of the business while creditors and the debtor work with the Bankruptcy Court in order to negotiate and complete a plan. Upon meeting certain requirements (e.g., fairness among creditors, priority of certain creditors) creditors are permitted to vote on the proposed plan. If a plan is confirmed, the debtor continues to operate and pay debts under the terms of the confirmed plan. If a specified majority of creditors do not vote to confirm a plan, additional requirements may be imposed by the court in order to confirm the plan. Debtors filing for Chapter 11 protection a second time are known informally as \"Chapter 22\" filers.\n\nIn Chapter 13, debtors retain ownership and possession of all their assets, but must devote some portion of future income to repaying creditors, generally over three to five years. The amount of payment and period of the repayment plan depend upon a variety of factors, including the value of the debtor's property and the amount of a debtor's income and expenses. Under this chapter, the debtor can propose a repayment plan in which to pay creditors over three to five years. If the monthly income is less than the state's median income, the plan is for three years, unless the court finds \"just cause\" to extend the plan for a longer period. If the debtor's monthly income is greater than the median income for individuals in the debtor's state, the plan must generally be for five years. A plan cannot exceed the five-year limit.\n\nRelief under Chapter 13 is available only to individuals with regular income whose debts do not exceed prescribed limits. If the debtor is an individual or a sole proprietor, the debtor is allowed to file for a Chapter 13 bankruptcy to repay all or part of the debts. Secured creditors may be entitled to greater payment than unsecured creditors.\n\nIn contrast to Chapter 7, the debtor in Chapter 13 may keep all property, whether or not exempt. If the plan appears feasible and if the debtor complies with all the other requirements, the bankruptcy court typically confirms the plan and the debtor and creditors are bound by its terms. Creditors have no say in the formulation of the plan, other than to object to it, if appropriate, on the grounds that it does not comply with one of the Code's statutory requirements. Generally, the debtor makes payments to a trustee who disburses the funds in accordance with the terms of the confirmed plan.\n\nWhen the debtor completes payments pursuant to the terms of the plan, the court formally grant the debtor a discharge of the debts provided for in the plan. However, if the debtor fails to make the agreed upon payments or fails to seek or gain court approval of a modified plan, a bankruptcy court will normally dismiss the case on the motion of the trustee. After a dismissal, creditors may resume pursuit of state law remedies to recover the unpaid debt.\n\nIn 2004, the number of insolvencies reached record highs in many European countries. In France, company insolvencies rose by more than 4%, in Austria by more than 10%, and in Greece by more than 20%. The increase in the number of insolvencies, however, does not indicate the total financial impact of insolvencies in each country because there is no indication of the size of each case. An increase in the number of bankruptcy cases does not necessarily entail an increase in bad debt write-off rates for the economy as a whole.\n\nBankruptcy statistics are also a trailing indicator. There is a time delay between financial difficulties and bankruptcy. In most cases, several months or even years pass between the financial problems and the start of bankruptcy proceedings. Legal, tax, and cultural issues may further distort bankruptcy figures, especially when comparing on an international basis. Two examples:\n\nThe insolvency numbers for private individuals also do not show the whole picture. Only a fraction of heavily indebted households file for insolvency. Two of the main reasons for this are the stigma of declaring themselves insolvent and the potential business disadvantage.\n\nFollowing the soar in insolvencies in the last decade, a number of European countries, such as France, Germany, Spain and Italy, began to revamp their bankruptcy laws in 2013. They modelled these new laws after the image of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Currently, the majority of insolvency cases have ended in liquidation in Europe rather than the businesses surviving the crisis. These new law models are meant to change this; lawmakers are hoping to turn bankruptcy into a chance for restructuring rather than a death sentence for the companies.\n\nTechnically, states do not collapse directly due to a sovereign default event itself. However, the tumultuous events that follow may bring down the state, so in common language we do describe states as being bankrupted.\n\nSome examples of this are when a Korean state bankrupted Imperial China causing its destruction, or more specifically, when Chang'an's (Sui Dynasty) war with Pyongyang (Goguryeo) in 614 A.D. ended in the former's disintegration within 4 years, although the latter also seemingly entered into decline and fell some 56 years later. Another example is when the United States, with heavy financial backing from its allies (creditors), bankrupted the Soviet Union which led to the latter's demise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23640379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23640379", "title": "Buenos Aires Central Business District", "text": "Buenos Aires Central Business District\n\nThe Buenos Aires Central Business District is the main commercial centre of Buenos Aires, Argentina, though not an official city ward. While the \"barrios\" of Puerto Madero and Retiro house important business complexes and modern high-rise architecture, the area traditionally known as Microcentro (Spanish: Microcenter) is located within San Nicolás and Monserrat, roughly coinciding with the area around the historic center of the Plaza de Mayo. The \"Microcentro\" has a wide concentration of offices, service companies and banks, and a large circulation of pedestrians on working days. Another name given to this unofficial \"barrio\" is La City, which refers more precisely to an even smaller sector within the \"Microcentro\", where almost all the banking headquarters of the country are concentrated.\n\nThe area was the site of the first European settlement in what later became Buenos Aires. Its south-north axis runs along Leandro Alem Avenue, from Belgrano Avenue in the south to Retiro railway station in the north, and its east-west axis runs from the Buenos Aires Ecological Reserve to Ninth of July Avenue. The district is centered around the San Nicolás ward, and includes the northern section of Montserrat, the section of Retiro south of Santa Fe Avenue, and the section of Puerto Madero west of the Buenos Aires Docklands.\n\nThe district is the financial, corporate, and cultural hub of Buenos Aires, and of Argentina. The economy of Buenos Aires was the 13th largest among the world's cities in 2006 at US$245 billion in purchasing power parity, which, based on the population of that year, translates into US21,500 per capita. The Buenos Aires Human Development Index (0.925 in 1998) is likewise high by international standards. \nThe Port of Buenos Aires is one of the busiest in South America; navigable rivers by way of the Río de la Plata connect the port to northeastern Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay. As a result, it serves as the distribution hub for a vast area of the south-eastern region of the South American continent. Tax collection related to the port has caused many political problems in the past.\n\nBuenos Aires CBD lies in the Pampa region, except some zones like the Buenos Aires Ecological Reserve, the Boca Juniors (football) Club \"sports city\", Jorge Newbery Airport, the Puerto Madero neighborhood and the main port itself. These latter were all built on reclaimed land along the coast of the Rio de la Plata (the world's largest estuary).\n\nThe region was formerly crossed by different creeks and lagoons, some of which were refilled and other tubed. Among the most important creeks are: Maldonado, Vega, Medrano, Cildañez and White. In 1908 many creeks were channeled and rectified, as floods were damaging the city's infrastructure. Starting in 1919, most creeks were enclosed. Notably, the Maldonado was tubed in 1954, and currently runs below Juan B. Justo Avenue (north of this district).\n\nFacing the Río de la Plata estuary, the frontage remained flood-prone, and in 1846, Governor Juan Manuel de Rosas had a contention wall six blocks long built along the existing promenade. An English Argentine investor, Edward Taylor, opened a pier along the promenade in 1855, and the flood-control walls were extended northwards to Recoleta, and south to San Telmo, in subsequent works completed in 1865.\n\nA sudden economic and population boom led the new President of Argentina, Julio Roca, to commission the development in 1881 of an ambitious port to supplement the recently developed facilities at La Boca, in Buenos Aires's southside. Approved by the Argentine Congress in 1882 and financed by the prominent London-based Barings Bank (the chief underwriter of Argentine bonds and investment, at the time), the project required the reclaiming of over 200 hectares (500 acres) of underwater land and was accompanied by the widening of the promenade into what became Leandro Alem Avenue.\n\nItalian and French influences increased after the overthrow of strongman Juan Manuel de Rosas in 1852, and particularly upon the advent of the modernizing Generation of 1880. French architecture inspired the area's redevelopment during the beginning of the 20th century, and eclectic designs that drew from Beaux-Arts, French Academy, and Second Empire architecture were reflected by numerous historic buildings in this districts from the era, notably the headquarters for \"La Prensa\", City Hall, the City Legislature, Buenos Aires Customs, Palace of Justice, the National Congress, the Teatro Colón, the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange, the Buenos Aires Central Post Office, and along most of the Avenida de Mayo and Diagonal Norte Avenue.\nSome of the most prominent contributors to the district's architecture from the era included Francesco Tamburini, Vittorio Meano, Julio Dormal, Virginio Colombo, Juan Antonio Buschiazzo, Mario Palanti, and Francisco Gianotti. Later significant additions include those by Alejandro Christophersen, Alejandro Bustillo (most notably the National Bank), Andrés Kalnay, Eduardo Le Monnier, and Francisco Salamone.\n\nThe Alas Building, commissioned by Juan Perón and built in the early 1950s, was the tallest in Argentina until 1995, and was one of numerous commercial structures built in the Rationalist style in this area during that time. Since the 1960s, newer, high-technology buildings were designed in the district by Argentine architects Clorindo Testa, Santiago Sánchez Elía, César Pelli, and Mario Roberto Álvarez, by firms such as SEPRA Arquitectos and MSGSSS, and by Uruguayan architect Rafael Viñoly. Some of the more notable commercial developments completed since then have included the Catalinas Norte office park, Torre Bouchard, Bouchard Plaza, Galicia Tower, the Repsol-YPF Tower, the Banco Macro Tower, and the BBVA Tower .\n\nSan Nicolás is one of the districts that shares most of the city and national government structure with neighboring Montserrat, and is home of the business district's financial center. It's seldom referred to as \"San Nicolás\", but usually as The Center (\"City Centre\"), and the part east of the 9 de Julio Avenue is called \"Microcentro\" (\"Micro-centre\").\n\nThe growing importance of the area as a financial center was highlighted by the 1854 establishment of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange. San Nicolás remains the financial center of Argentina, something underscored by the presence of the Central Bank and the National Bank, Argentina's largest. The rapid development of the Argentine economy after 1875 made itself evident in San Nicolás with the reclaiming of riverfront land by businessmen Francisco Seeber and Eduardo Madero, and the shore hitherto popular among washerwomen became the \"Paseo de Julio\" (today Leandro Alem Avenue).\n\nThe construction of Corrientes and Nueve de Julio Avenues in the 1930s further modernized San Nicolás, which had hitherto been limited in its development by its colonial grid of narrow streets. Florida Street, most of which is in San Nicolás, is the city's best-known pedestrianized street. Its most discernible landmark is the Galerías Pacífico shopping arcade.\n\nThe district is home to the Argentine Supreme Court, the Buenos Aires Metropolitan Cathedral, the Colón Opera House, headquarters of numerous leading Argentine firms, including Aerolíneas Argentinas, the Bank of the City of Buenos Aires, \"La Nación\", Bunge y Born, Pérez Companc, the Macri Group, and most of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange leaders, as well as the local offices of a number of international companies, such as BankBoston, BBVA, Citibank, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, IBM, Microsoft, Santander Bank, and Techint.\n\nRetiro is one of the largest hubs of transportation services in Argentina. Local and long distance rail service heading to the north originate from Estación Retiro (Retiro Terminal Station), and Retiro bus station is the city's main long-distance bus terminal. \"Subte\" line C of the Buenos Aires Metro system and numerous local public bus services serve Retiro, and this area is always teeming with commuters and traffic on weekdays.\n\nThe most important avenue linking Retiro and the CBD to commuters living in residential areas to the north is Avenida del Libertador, which becomes Leandro Alem Avenue past the Retiro Station. Other important thoroughfares in the Retiro section of the CBD are Córdoba, Santa Fe, and 9 de Julio Avenues.\n\nThe high-rise business district of \"Catalinas Norte\", as well as the northern end of the Puerto Madero development, is located east of Leandro N. Alem Avenue. Opposite the Retiro train terminal, at the northern end of the CBD, is the leafy Plaza San Martín, surrounded by great palaces and hotels. The Retiro lowlands were once the training grounds for José de San Martín's \"Granaderos\" corps, and the modern-day Plaza San Martín features an equestrian statue honoring the hero of the Argentine War of Independence, as well as a memorial for the dead in the 1982 Falklands War. Facing the station is Argentine Air Force Square, where the \"Torre Monumental\" (formerly \"Torre de los Ingleses\"), a monument donated by the Anglo-Argentine community for the 1910 centennial celebrations, is located.\n\nOther significant landmarks opposite the Plaza are the Kavanagh Building, a reinforced concrete structure that when completed in 1936, was the tallest building in Latin America at . The nearby Brunetta Building (formerly headquarters for Olivetti's Latin American operations) was the first in Argentina to be built in the International style.\n\nMontserrat is located south of San Nicolás. The section of the Montserrat ward within the business district includes some of the most important buildings in Argentine Government and history, and was the site of the Buenos Aires Cabildo, the colonial town hall.\n\nAvenue of May runs through the Montserrat district, connecting May Square and Congressional Plaza. A block or two south of the Plaza de Mayo, the older section of Montserrat begins. This was the location of the Illuminated Block, a Jesuit center of higher learning during the 18th century, and today home to the Colegio Nacional de Buenos Aires. This is Buenos Aires's oldest neighborhood and even today, very little of the cityscape there is less than a hundred years old (except along Belgrano Avenue), thereby making a nearly seamless transition to the likewise historic San Telmo district to the south.\n\nThe district's led central location and its presence therein of much of Argentina's governmental structure led to monumental construction over the 1910s, notable among which are the Pink House, City Hall, the City Legislature, the Customs building, the offices of \"La Prensa\" (today the Buenos Aires House of Culture), the art-deco NH City Hotel (off the Plaza de Mayo), the Libertador Building (Ministry of Defense), and South Diagonal Avenue. Montserrat's western half was partitioned from the rest by the southward expansion of the massive Nueve de Julio Avenue around 1950.\n\nThe area became a largely bohemian quarter popular with tango performers and artists, as well as many who preferred the area's close proximity to the growing financial district to the north and its relatively low rent scale. Its rich architectural history and quiet, narrow streets have, as in neighboring San Telmo, helped lead to renewed tourist interest in Montserrat since around 1990.\n\nPuerto Madero occupies a significant portion of the docklands and, as the newest of Buenos Aires's 48 boroughs, features the latest architectural trends in Argentina.\n\nOriginally developed by local businessman Eduardo Madero and designed by British engineer Sir John Hawkshaw, Puerto Madero was inaugurated in 1897. Its four docks were relegated to ancillary port functions after the 1926 completion of the New Port to the north, however, and became derelict. Beginning around 1994, however, local and foreign investment led to a massive revitalization effort, recycling and refurbishing the west side warehouses into upscale offices, lofts, restaurants, private universities and luxurious hotels. State-of-the-art multiplex cinemas, theatres, cultural centres, luxurious hotels and office and corporate buildings are located mostly in the eastern side of the district.\n\nPuerto Madero has been redeveloped with international flair, drawing interest from renown architects such as Santiago Calatrava, Norman Foster, César Pelli and Philippe Starck, among others. Today one of the trendiest boroughs in Buenos Aires, it has become the preferred address for growing numbers of young professionals and retirees, alike. Increasing property prices have also generated interest in the area as a destination for foreign buyers, particularly those in the market for premium investment properties.\n\nThe neighborhood's road network has been entirely rebuilt, especially in the east side. The layout of the east side consists currently of three wide boulevards running east-west crossed by the east side's main street, Juana Manso Avenue. The layout is completed with some other avenues and minor streets, running both east-west and north-south, and by several pedestrianised streets. All the streets of Puerto Madero are named after women. The Puente de la Mujer (Women's Bridge), designed in 2001 by Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava, is the newest link between the east and west docks of Puerto Madero.\n\nPuerto Madero represents the largest wide-scale urban project in the city of Buenos Aires, currently. Having undergone an impressive revival in merely a decade, it is one of the most successful recent waterfront renewal projects in the world.\n\nNumerous new residential high-rises of up to 50 stories have been built facing on the eastern half of Puerto Madero since 2000. These include El Mirador of Puerto Madero towers, Renoir Towers, El Faro towers, Chateau Tower of Puerto Madero, and the Mulieris towers, among others. Notable non-residential structures include the Repsol-YPF tower, the Hilton Buenos Aires, the Faena Hotel+Universe (one of a number of refurbished former Molinos Río de la Plata silos), and the Fortabat Art Collection museum building.\n"}
{"id": "14204007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14204007", "title": "Business Intelligence 2.0", "text": "Business Intelligence 2.0\n\nBusiness Intelligence 2.0 (BI 2.0) is a future development of the existing business intelligence model that began in the mid-2000s, where data can be obtained from many sources. The process allows for the querying of real-time corporate data by employees, but approaches the data with a web browser based solution. This is in contrast to previous proprietary querying tools that characterizes previous BI software.\n\nThe growth in service-oriented architectures (SOA) is one of the main factors for this happening. BI 2.0 is intended to be more flexible and adaptive than normal business intelligence. Data exchange processes also differ, with XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language), Web Services and various Semantic Web ontologies enable using data external to an organization, such as benchmarking type information.\n\nBusiness Intelligence 2.0 is believed to have been named after Web 2.0, although it takes elements from both Web 2.0 (a focus on user empowerment and community collaboration, technologies like RSS and the concept of mashups), and the Semantic Web, sometimes called \"Web 3.0\" (semantic integration through shared ontologies to enable easier exchange of data).\n\nAccording to analytics expert Neil Raden, BI 2.0 also implies a move away from the standard data warehouse that business intelligence tools have used, which \"will give way to context, contingency and the need to relate information quickly from many sources.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2569880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2569880", "title": "Central Atlanta Progress", "text": "Central Atlanta Progress\n\nCentral Atlanta Progress (CAP), founded in 1941, as the Central Area Improvement Association, is a private, not-for-profit corporation, chartered to plan and promote Atlanta's Central Area, that strives to create a robust economic climate for downtown Atlanta, Georgia, in the United States.\n\nCAP was formed by a merger of the Central Atlanta Improvement Association with the Uptown Association on January 1, 1967.\n\nCentral Atlanta Progress (CAP) defines the central area as the central core of Atlanta bounded by the railroad cordon from West End on the south to Brookwood on the north and Boulevard on the east to Vine City on the west.\n\nThe membership of CAP consists of the chief executives of approximately major corporations and property owners in Central Atlanta, The Board of Directors includes business leaders from the Atlanta area. CAP is funded through the investment of businesses and institutions.\n\nThe first Central Area Study of the city of Atlanta was performed by Central Atlanta Progress. Completed in 1971, the first Central Area Study (CAS I) dealt with the areas of economic development, transport, housing, urban design, public safety, human services, and marketing. The study focused on transport conditions and related land use and urban design in the areas proximate to downtown and midtown in Atlanta. The idea that attracted press attention was the \"four level Peachtree corridor\" concept which would have buried the vehicular travel along Peachtree Street below the surface of the current road.\n\nThe Study states\n\nWhen the study was written, freeway (and tollway) mileage within the city was expected to be significantly more than it became. Among the abandoned highways were an I-85 separate from the Downtown Connector by the construction of a west-side freeway, construction of I-485 as an east-side parallel to the connector, extension of the Lakewood Freeway, and construction of the Stone Mountain Expressway and its symmetrical sister, the South Cobb Expressway to relieve I-75 northwest of the central business district. Fifty specific local surface street improvements were also recommended, at a cost of $69 million (of the total of $326 million in improvements recommended by the study.)\n\nThe writers of the first Central Area Study appreciated that it was unreasonable to expect that the streets and parking lots of the Central Business District (CBD) would be sufficient to accommodate every automobile whose occupants' desired to travel there. Therefore, the study strongly supported the construction of the MARTA heavy-rail system as one of the means to \"intercept the automobile.\" As recommended by the first Central Area Study, the MARTA referendum was passed in November 1971.\n\nAlso part of this interception idea was a people-mover system designed to link some of the key interception points with downtown. This distribution system was imagined as an above ground, above vehicular right-of-ways, fixed guideway system.\n\nCAS I saw the construction of MARTA rail as an extraordinary opportunity to accomplish several goals. The first of these was to impact land use around the rail stations in Fulton, DeKalb, and the City of Atlanta. \"Land use plans, zoning and subdivision regulations should be altered to encourage high density residential and commercial development around the stations.\" The second opportunity brought about by the construction, and its inconvenience, was to simultaneously rebuild Peachtree Street as a four level transport corridor. This \"Peachtree Promenade\" would have converted the existing level of Peachtree Street to a pedestrian mall, with fountains and other urban design amenities. On the level immediately below the existing street, north-south vehicular traffic would run. Beneath this north-south spine would be two functions, east-west roadways on a separate grade from Peachtree, and the concourses for the MARTA stations. On the third below ground level would be MARTA rail lines. \"The construction of the MARTA line along Peachtree will indeed be disruptive for a short time. However, the exploitation of the singular opportunity which this construction presents will result in a more efficient and attractive system of coping with the future. ... Failure to move boldly in this direction would be inexcusable.\" Only the MARTA line was built, and Peachtree remained a vehicular street with at grade intersections.\n\nOther specific Urban Design projects recommended by CAS I included the creation of a multilevel Five Points Park and development of pedestrian malls on Broad Street and on Alabama Street. The study also performed an investigation into the area called \"Railroad Gulch\" which corresponds to the area just south of the Five Points area. For this area, the study recommended formulation of a three level movement system, involving pedestrian walkways and air-rights construction over the railroad lines and the MARTA station.\n\nAs with most planning studies, CASwas predicated on demographic forecasts, noted in the table. The forecasts anticipated too much growth in the central area as opposed to the rest of the Atlanta region. In particular, the amount of office space and the number of employees in downtown was overstated by a significant factor. The cities used as a model for the planners in the Central Area Study were older more urban cities rather than the newer suburban form of faster growing cities in the southern and western US.\n\nAt the time of the first Central Area Study, the CAP Policy Committee consisted of: Sam Massell, Mayor of the City of Atlanta; Wyche Fowler, Alderman; Ira Jackson, Alderman; Wade Mitchell, Alderman; Mills Lane, Chairman of Citizens and Southern Bank; and John Portman, President of Central Atlanta Progress. The Study Director was Robert Leary, the advisor was Robert Bivens, and the secretary was Collier Gladdin, who was Planning Director of the City of Atlanta.\n\nOn March 25, 1972, the first Central Area Study was delivered to the Aldermen of the City of Atlanta. Collier Gladdin, moved to achieve quick adoption of this program, which proposed to spend $326.7 million over 23 years to improve access and circulation in the central area of Atlanta. Gladdin did not want this to become another dust-gathering report, he said \"We're going to keep it alive.\" The study itself cost $200,000 and was funded by the United States Department of Transportation, the City of Atlanta, and Central Atlanta Progress, Inc., and was developed under the guidance of an urban planner, Robert M. Leary, hired as study director, with the assistance of an eight member team. On the 30th of March, Alderman Wyche Fowler, while discussing the plan, stated that no group will ever adopt the plan to rebuild downtown in toto, but that they may approve it as a guide to development.\n\nThe idea that had grabbed the attention was the concept of a Four Level Peachtree Street, which had walkways for pedestrians, a rapid transit corridor, and streets for vehicle traffic, as well as automobile interceptor lots on the edge of the study area. At this time, John Portman was the President of Central Atlanta Progress, and one of the leading participants in the study. In April 1972, he boasted that Atlanta was one of under a handful of American cities which had a chance to solve its problems. He said \"The Central Study can be one of the greatest tools in our history, if we'll only work together to make it happen, and now is the time to start.\" In the article appearing that day, the Constitution, in its usual manner of accurate reporting, increased the cost of the study to $300,000. Spring of 1972 was also the time that new officers were elected to the Board of Directors of CAP. Portman rival Thomas Cousins, developer of the off-Peachtree Omni complex, was made 1st Vice President.\n\nA public hearing in late April was held to discuss the proposed plan, at which there was much discord over the proposal, with demagoguery reaching such heights that one speaker called it \"an expensive and totally inappropriate tombstone to a city that committed suicide.\" The opponents were led by Kathryn Thompson, chair of the Virginia-Highlands Action Committee, and consisted of many environmentalists. It is worth noting that the plan would have converted over 15 square miles of Central Atlanta into pedestrian malls and parks if it had been fully implemented. Citizen complainants maintained that the Study would not solve the \"traffic mess\", that there should be more mass transit, that it \"Paves Atlanta\" when it should \"Save Atlanta\", that there was no citizen involvement in the plan, only reaction, that the money should be used for neighborhood parks, and that the urban design restrictions were too lax. Those endorsing the Central Area Study were a diverse sample of the planning community including Larry Gellerstadt who was President of the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, a Vice President of MARTA, a representative of the state DOT, and a city Traffic Engineer, Clyde Robbins, a Vice President of Georgia Tech, and Steve Fuller, the chair of Underground Atlanta in its previous incarnation.\n\nVoting to delay the approval or disapproval of the plan for two weeks on the sixteenth of October, the council avoided making a potentially controversial decision. This move disagreed with project supporter and member of the study's policy committee, Alderman Wyche Fowler, so much that he said \"I don't think political pussyfooting on the part of some aldermen is going to win the day.\" The aldermen he was referring to were Chuck Driebe and Buddy Fowlkes, who offered an amendment that would receive the study as a guide for development with \"no designated priorities\", and subject to modification after the release of the then upcoming Atlanta Regional Commission's Regional Transportation Plan. Alderman Wade Mitchell moved to change the words \"receive the plan\" to \"approve the plan\", at which point Driebe moved to table the bill. Fowler, clearly unhappy with Driebe over this and other issues, said \"Driebe knows additional language is superfluous and meaningless. I hope that any members of the board who do not feel that this is a unique study by both the public and the private sector that provides us a chance to channel our growth in an orderly fashion will have the guts to say so.\" The issue underlying approval of the Central Area Study and causing all of the nastiness was the charter revision, over which Driebe and Fowler had disagreements. Another reason for the opposition was because of the suggestion of the construction of tollways through inner city areas. Aldermen Panke Bradley, Nick Lambros, and Chuck Driebe introduced legislation calling on the state of Georgia to stop tollway planning until the Atlanta Regional Commission prepared and the aldermanic council approved an alternative to the regional transport problem.\n\nOn the fourth of November, the Atlanta Constitution published an editorial; it said in part:\n\nwe hope that the aldermen will adopt it as a guideline for the future. We would emphasize that action by the board would not commit the city or the aldermanic board to any specific project or priority of the Central Area Study. But it would commit the city to principles of sound planning for the future, whatever detailed decisions have to be made later. We think that is important.\n\nThe Aldermen finally approved the Central Area Study on November 7, 1972. Mayor Sam Massell proposed a compromise measure of which he said \"Such approval does not carry with it or imply the prior approval of any specific program or project which is proposed or might be represented to implement said plan.\" and \"Each individual improvement contained in this report must meet the test of careful study at the appropriate time to determine its applicability, financial feasibility, and impact prior to being submitted to the effected committee of the mayor and Board of Aldermen.\"\n\nAfter this compromise was introduced, only Alderman Cecil Turner voted against the substitute resolution, because he wanted to substitute for accepting the study a statement which called the study \"an acceptable statement of plans and goals for downtown Atlanta. Alderman Fowler called Turner's proposal \"legal jabberwocky designed to delay, frustrate and hinder the planning process.\" \n\nCochaired by Mayor Andrew Young, Jim Edwards, and Frank Carter, the second Central Area Study (CAS II) was begun in the fall of 1985 and completed in 1987. Like the first study, CAS II was a joint effort with the City of Atlanta and Fulton County. The policy board guiding the study was divided into seven task forces dealing with strategic planning, conventions and tourism, transport and infrastructure, recreation and the arts, public safety, retail and commercial, and housing. \"The primary goal of CAS II is the creation of both the image and reality of Atlanta as a safe and clean city\" and \"The top priority of CAS II is to make the Central Area more livable and inviting to people.\" \n\nThe second Central Area Study promoted what it called \"Pedestrian Peachtree\", and said \"We want buildings and public spaces designed so that they are hospitable to people. We want retail shops to face the sidewalks so that people are invited in, not shops buried deep within buildings that turn their backs on pedestrians and visitors.\" This last point is clearly aimed at John Portman's Peachtree Center complex which has very little street frontage of shops, but has an indoor mall. The idea of the Pedestrian Peachtree is a similar but scaled down version of what was proposed in the first Central Area Study.\n\nCAS II proposed the creation of a Central Atlanta Retail Association. Three issues were to be the focus of this organization: maintenance of the environment, attracting shoppers, and recruiting and retaining desirable retail merchants. Along with a retail association, the study advocated better marketing of downtown, with the creation of a marketing association which would merchandise downtown attractions, create a central information center, and improve signage. Along with this, entertainment facilities are to be clustered in certain districts of the central area. The CARA was also charged with the maintenance of downtown. This means that it is to be responsible for coordinating the repair of sidewalks, waste disposal, and general cleanliness.\n\nThe task force on housing maintained that if Atlanta were to remain a 24 hour city, it would have to attract upper and middle income housing. A coordinating agency for housing development, Housing Urban Design Assistance Team (HUDAT), was proposed, although whether the agency was to be new or an already existing agency was undecided.\n\nMaking Atlanta a \"clean and safe city\" was one of the priorities of the study, and to meet this goal, it proposed that the central police zone be reconstituted to include Midtown as well as downtown. This proposal met with some controversy because it essentially proposed making a safe downtown more important than other areas, offending those in other areas.\n\nFunding would be accomplished by the steering of public and private incentives to achieve certain goals. This would be used in particular for promotion of downtown housing and better urban design.\n\n\"The focus of CAS I, completed in 1971, was on improving transport and circulation in Central Atlanta.\" These recommendations, including, making Spring Street and West Peachtree one-way pairs, improving the interstate system, and the construction of a heavy-rail MARTA system, were generally implemented. CASII suggested further transport improvements, in particular benefitting pedestrian flow, including the creation of pedestrian malls and reducing vehicle-pedestrian conflictual interaction.\n\nThe fundamental difference between the two Central Atlanta Studies was not any particular recommendations. It is rather, that the first study focused on concrete achievable goals, the most important of which were achieved, while the second study much more heavily emphasized human resource type goals, whose success will be harder to measure and see. Improving safety, better marketing of downtown retail, and the creation of a \"24 Hour City\" are for the most part only able to be successful if they are perceived to be successful. From the point of view of downtown merchants, increased police will not have helped unless people feel safer, and spend more time downtown.\n\nThe Atlanta Downtown Improvement District (ADID), founded in 1995 by CAP, is a public-private partnership that strives to create a livable environment for Downtown Atlanta. With a Board of Directors of nine private and public-sector leaders, ADID is funded through a community improvement district within which commercial property owners pay special assessments.\n\nAccording to their mission statements, Central Atlanta Progress and the Atlanta Downtown Improvement District are committed to a downtown for the diverse Atlanta community, including property owners, employees, residents, students and visitors.\n\nArchives of Central Atlanta Progress are available at the Atlanta History Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "3561800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3561800", "title": "Chief administrative officer", "text": "Chief administrative officer\n\nA Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) is a top-tier executive who supervises the daily operations of an organization and is ultimately responsible for its performance.\n\nA Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) is responsible for administrative management of private, public or governmental organizations and the \"de facto\" head of the organization.\n\nIn a municipal context, the title is usually used as an alternative for city manager, county administrator, or county executive, particularly in cases where the position does not include powers such as the authority to appoint or dismiss department heads.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, CAOs of public companies must be chartered secretaries (Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators), lawyers, certified/chartered accountants, or others with equivalent experience.\n\nThe CAO is one of the highest-ranking members of an organization, managing daily operations and usually reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer. In some companies, the CAO is also the president. It is very similar to a Chief Operating Officer but is not the same as a Chief Executive Officer, which is a more senior title in for-profit corporations.\n\nAt the United Nations, the secretary-general is the de facto head of the United Nations. According to the United Nations: Equal parts diplomat and advocate, civil servant and CEO, the Secretary-General is a symbol of United Nations ideals and a spokesman for the interests of the world's peoples, in particular the poor and vulnerable among them. The Charter also empowers the Secretary-General to \"bring to the attention of the Security Council any matter which in his opinion may threaten the maintenance of international peace and security\". These guidelines both define the powers of the office and grant it considerable scope for action. One of the most vital roles played by the Secretary-General is the use of his \"good offices\", steps taken publicly and in private, drawing upon his independence, impartiality and integrity, to prevent international disputes from arising, escalating or spreading.\n\nThe secretary-general appoints all staff at the United Nations.\n\nIn Brunei, Chief Administrative Officer was the highest rank of governmental officers in Japanese occupied Brunei under the Japanese Governor. The first Chief Administrative Officer was Inche Ibrahim (known later as Pehin Datu Perdana Menteri Dato Laila Utama Awang Haji Ibrahim), a former Secretary to the British Resident, Ernest Edgar Pengilly.\n"}
{"id": "36298358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36298358", "title": "Chris Joseph (autobiographer)", "text": "Chris Joseph (autobiographer)\n\nChris Joseph is a British advertising executive and sufferer of bipolar disorder and the author of his autobiography \"Bye-Bye Bipolar?: 63 Manicdotes\". He has a divorced wife Helen and three children, and is also a supporter of Middlesbrough Football Club. He was chairman of the Middlesbrough Official Supporters Club from 2014-2015 and is the founder and President of the Middlesbrough Supporters Forum - www.boro.support\n\nJoseph attended the English Martyrs School and Sixth Form College, Hartlepool. He left his BA Hons French degree at the University of Liverpool to become a priest, worked as a nightclub doorman, and at an iron foundry Head Wrightson where he survived an industrial accident but lost his right arm, and then completed a changed degree at the University of Liverpool in French and communication studies before beginning a career in advertising.\n\nAfter joining the small advertising agency GDA, rapid promotion to new business director and subsequently being headhunted by Saatchi & Saatchi, he set up his own agency, Hook Advertising, which he turned into an award-winning company with a £10 million a year turnover. The name comes from the solid silver hallmarked hook which replaced the hand he lost in his industrial accident.\n\nAlthough clients of Hook Advertising included Fujitsu and Schwarzkopf, its biggest client was the Barclays Philips Shell consortium (BYPS). Joseph created and designed the name and logo for Rabbit, a telephone system and then pitched and won the £4 million advertising contract from BYPS. When Rabbit was later sold to Hutchison, the latter requested an assignment of the Rabbit copyright from Hook Advertising which refused, believing it not to be covered by the contract. After Hutchison severed the contract it sued Hook Advertising. Four years of litigation followed where Hook Advertising also sued Barclays, Shell, Philips and Hutchison, and in addition Barclays sued Hook Advertising.\n\n\nIn January 1996, Mrs Justice Arden ruled that clients cannot take creative work pitched to them speculatively without a prior agreement, but that in Hook Advertising's enthusiasm to win the Rabbit deal it had effectively traded its rights to the logo and made such a preliminary deal. This ruling replaced the legal precedent set in 1928 in the Hycolite case (Drabble (Harold) Ltd v. Hycolite Manufacturing Co. [1928] 44 TLR 264) that the conduct of the parties may imply a licence to use a copyright work without the need for it to be in writing. Despite the legal battle, there was also an out of court settlement in which Hook Advertising received more than £1 million.\n\nJoseph suffers from bipolar disorder, a psychiatric illness with cyclical manic and depressive episodes. He was sectioned several times between 1988 and 2002 although he has now been well and not relapsed for 12 years. During some of his manic periods he squandered money, including buying 200 FA football tickets worth over £5,000 for a match involving his favourite team Middlesbrough F.C. He then gave them all away to children he didn't know outside McDonald's. He became chairman of the national Manic Depressive Fellowship charity (now Bipolar UK) during the period Spike Milligan was patron.\n\nWhile fighting the litigation Joseph founded the group SAFE (Struggle Against Financial Exploitation). Its purpose was as a high-profile action group to demonstrate and draw attention to systemic fraud and deception upon unsuspecting individuals throughout the UK. SAFE caused severe embarrassment, with its demonstrations and creative but legal advertising campaigns and publicity stunts against Barclays Bank, the Bank of England, the Treasury and Downing Street At its peak it had a membership of 2000 - second only to Greenpeace in terms of membership and profile.\n\nOne tactic was to buy shares in the banks, distribute them to aggrieved customers and then all attend shareholder's AGMs to ask awkward questions. SAFE ran mobile billboards around major UK cities with the message - \"Are you being persecuted by a high street bank? We help people fight banks. Join SAFE and we'll give you a free share in your bank - you can attend its AGM with us and question the Chairman in person.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22307822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22307822", "title": "Dannemann", "text": "Dannemann\n\nDannemann Cigars (Dannemann Cigarrenfabrik in German) was founded by Gerhard Dannemann. He was born 23. April 1851 in Bremen and died in 1921. A German-Brazilian entrepreneur and founder of the cigar company Dannemann, he later changed his name to Geraldo Dannemann. Dannemann also makes the famous cigarillo brand Moods.\n\nDannemann cigars are mentioned in the Cold Chisel song Cheap Wine.\n\n"}
{"id": "24767764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24767764", "title": "David Lauren", "text": "David Lauren\n\nDavid Lauren (born October 11, 1971) is the middle child and youngest son of clothing designer Ralph Lauren. His siblings are Dylan and Andrew Lauren.\n\nDavid Lauren was born on October 11, 1971, the son of Ricky Anne (née Loew-Beer) and fashion designer and executive Ralph Lauren. His father was the son of Belarus-born Jewish immigrants. His mother was the daughter of a Jewish father and an Austrian mother, both immigrants from Austria. The second of three children, Lauren has an older brother, Andrew Lauren, and a younger sister, Dylan Lauren.\n\nLauren attended Duke University, where he studied Political Science. At Duke, he founded \"Swing\", a general interest lifestyle publication for Generation X, where he served as President and Editor-In-Chief. \"Swing\" was eventually published by Hachette Filipacchi Médias.\n\nLauren is currently Executive Vice President, Global Advertising, Marketing and Communications at Ralph Lauren Corporation, a position he has held since February 2000. In his role at Ralph Lauren Corporation, Lauren is responsible for the global advertising and marketing campaigns for the company for 28 brands, overseeing over 200 advertising campaigns a year, as well as the company's corporate and fashion communications and strategic marketing partnerships.\n\nLauren joined Ralph Lauren Corporation in 2000 to run the company's internet operations with Ralph Lauren Media, LLC., where he launched the Ralph Lauren website under an idea he called \"merchan-tainment,\" or the combination of merchandising and entertainment.\n\nIn his time at Ralph Lauren Corporation, Lauren has played a role in many key initiatives, including the establishment of RalphLauren.com, the launch of the Rugby brand, and Ralph Lauren Corporation's entry into mobile applications. Lauren has also orchestrated the company's sponsorship of several international sporting events and teams, including Wimbledon, the U.S. Open, and the U.S. Olympic teams. In 2007, he was named DNR's \"Marketer of the Year.\"\n\nLauren joined the Board of Directors of Ralph Lauren Corporation in August 2013.\n\nLauren serves as President of the Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation, with which he participates in numerous charitable organizations, including the Pink Pony fund, the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention, the Polo Jeans G.I.V.E. program, and the Star-Spangled Banner Preservation Project at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History.\nOn September 4, 2011, Lauren married Lauren Bush, the granddaughter of former U.S. President George H. W. Bush, in Colorado. Their son, James Richard Lauren, was born November 21, 2015.\nTheir second son Max Walker Lauren was born April 19, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "43534354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43534354", "title": "Dorcas Makgato-Malesu", "text": "Dorcas Makgato-Malesu\n\nDorcas Makgato was born in Serowe, Botswana. She grew up in the capital city Gaborone. Since she was a little girl Makgato dreamed of being a leader. She was shaped by her experiences as a Cub Scout and Girl Guide with the Girl Scouts in her native country. Her ambitions led her to become the youngest serving Minister in the Botswana Cabinet. Also she was part of the young hopeful’s that marked the 10th Bicentennial of Botswana’s Independence with a march past for the first President way back in 1976.\n\nShe attended Sheffield University in the UK where graduated with BSC Hons in General Management in Catering Systems.\n\nMakgato was the Chief Executive Officer of the Botswana Export and Development and Investment Authority (BEDIA) where she identified barriers to investment and lobbied the Botswana Government to make changes for an improved investment climate, involving greater engagement and interaction with critical stakeholders and the private sector. Furthermore, she used her role as the authority’s CEO to overhaul the organisation’s working structures and improve its practices which led the company to become one of Africa’s most admired investment promotion authorities.\n\nBefore joining BEDIA Dorcas Makgato worked for Barloworld. She was also the Executive Director of the Nashua Franchise and was responsible for the strategic direction and performance of the company. Lastly, before joining Barloworld she was Head of the Commercial and Human Resource Divisions of the National Airline, Air Botswana.\n\nHer past experiences have been helpful in Makgato’s current role in the trade and industry ministry. One of her main goals is to strive to make Botswana an attractive place to do business in a global scale. She hopes to use her position to help the country pursue sustainable industries and trade. Since assuming the ministry position in 2010, she has strengthen the relations between Botswana and its neighbouring countries in southern and eastern Africa, while introducing initiatives to reinforce Botswana's identity in the diamond industry and that of the country as a whole.\n\nShe is currently the Minister of Health and former Minister of Trade and Industry.\n"}
{"id": "33162688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33162688", "title": "Ethics in business communication", "text": "Ethics in business communication\n\nEthical issues of business communication is the process by which individuals exchange information between other individuals or groups of people. Throughout the process, effective communicators try as clearly and accurately to convey their thoughts, intentions and, objectives to their receiver. Communication is successful only when both the sender and the receiver understand the same information. In today's business environments, effective communication skills are necessary due to the highly informational and technological era.\n\nRegardless of context, communication involves choice, reflects values, and has consequences. For better communication, understanding the obvious and the subtle issues relating to communication is necessary. Any company that aims to be socially and ethically responsible must make a priority of ethical communication both inside the company and in its interactions with the public. In theory, many consumers prefer to do business with companies they believe are ethical which gives those ethical businesses an advantage in the market.\n\nSome of the vital characteristics of ethical communication are discussed below.\n\nWhile communicating with the audience, expressing the desired message to them in a significant manner is of primary importance. For instance, the employees in a company can be asked to increase their efficiency in a demanding manner whereas managers and executives will feel offended if the same tone is used on them. There are different ways to explain the exact things to them in a much smoother manner.\nMaintaining the same wavelength with the audience is very important for a communicator to ensure the audiences feel at home. Experienced communicators immediately build a relationship based on trust with the audience as soon as they start speaking. Great orators such as Winston Churchill and Mahatma Gandhi always were able to maintain a relationship with their audience because they were masters at striking the same wavelength of the audience.\n\nIn the modern era, information is vital for all decisions. Hence, it is essential for any organization to be cautious when communicating with tvitalic. The related information should be absolute, and all crucial information must be conveyed appropriately. Purposely withholding crucial information might result in the public conceiving a bad image.\nIn order to ensure that this concept is successfully practiced and understood in an organization, a well-organized value system must be established throughout the organization by the top management. If an organization functions on the base of value systems common to both the top management and the employees, mutual respect between them will be present. A sound and healthy value system can make way for ethical communication.\n\nAny information that is to be passed on must be true and accurate. Communicating without checking the truth of the information can be highly dangerous for the organization. Identification of the source and testing the information is necessary before communicating it.\n\nThe work of an organizational communication professional consists in developing communication plans that seek to restore trust, not only in the organization but the leaders and in all the people who work for it, in verbally promoting ethical behaviors and generating spaces of communication that help support institutional values.\n\nIn this way, both managers and employees will be \"on the same page,\" employees will feel heard and respected and will treat customers in the same way. Also, this will generate more loyalty on the part of the client and, therefore, more business. In addition, a business that communicates internally with ethics will most likely project that image in the business community, will seek to maintain good relations with the government and its most successful businesses. Without the distractions and negative effects that can have the legal implications of running a business \" ethically debatable,\" the organization will be able to concentrate its efforts on its employees, its products, and its clients.\n"}
{"id": "54473092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54473092", "title": "Euronorm", "text": "Euronorm\n\nA Euronorm is an international technical standard that has been recognized as applicable by the European Union. They may be identical to international standards of the ISO or IEC, or have editorial or technical content changes for applicability in the European Union, with changes annexed to the international standard, or may be originated by a European standards organization. Organizations recognized by EU regulations to establish standards are CEN, CENELEC and ETSI. A Euronorm becomes the equivalent of a national standard in all member countries, and replaces any prior conflicting national standard.\n"}
{"id": "9378403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9378403", "title": "Fahd bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud", "text": "Fahd bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud\n\nFahd bin Salman (1955 – 25 July 2001) (Arabic:فهد بن سلمان بن عبد العزيز آل سعود) was a member of the House of Saud.\n\nPrince Fahd was born in Riyadh in 1955. He was the oldest son of King Salman bin Abdulaziz. His mother was Sultana Al Sudairi, who died in July 2011. She was the daughter of Prince Salman's uncle, Turki bin Ahmed Al Sudairi, who was formerly the governor of Asir Province. Fahd bin Salman was a full brother of Prince Ahmed, Prince Sultan, Prince Abdulaziz, Prince Faisal and Princess Hassa (born 1974).\n\nFahd bin Salman received a bachelor's degree from King Saud University in Riyadh, followed by a second bachelor of arts degree in political science from the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nOn his return to Saudi Arabia, Fahd bin Salman joined the ministry of interior as an advisor. Later he served as deputy governor of the Eastern province from February 1986 to February 1993. He claimed that he spent about $4 million, all of which came from his own pocket, on feasts and largesse for commoners in the Muslim holy month of Ramadan during his deputy governorship.\n\nFrom 1991 to his death in 2001, Fahd bin Salman was involved in private business ventures. One of his companies was the Eirad Company, a space technology firm based in Riyadh.\n\nFahd bin Salman was introduced to horse racing in the early 1980s by his father-in-law, Khalid bin Abdullah, and he bought the famous Whatcombe stable near Lambourn in 1984. He later acquired a stable of Thoroughbred racehorses and established Newgate Stud in Dorset and in Lexington.\n\nHis greatest success came with the colt Generous whose victories included the 1991 Epsom Derby, King George VI and Queen Elizabeth Stakes, and the Irish Derby. He won the Irish Oaks twice, in 1990 and 1999, with Knight's Baroness and Ramruma, respectively. Prince Fahd also won the Irish St Leger (1990), Derby Italiano (1994) and the French Derby (Prix du Jockey Club).\n\nHis other horses included Ibn Bey, Broken Hearted, Zoman, Insan, Bint Pasha, Magic Ring and Dilum. In his later years, he began to devote himself to breeding horses rather than to racing.\n\nThe Prince Fahd bin Salman Charity Organization for Renal Failure Patient Care is a charitable organization founded by Prince Fahd, who was its first secretary-general. The association was formerly known as the Wafa Kidney Center in Namas and was renamed after the death of Fahd bin Salman. His father, Salman bin Abdulaziz, serves as its chairman, and his brother, Abdulaziz bin Salman, is its current secretary general.\n\nHis wife was Nuf bint Khalid bin Abdallah Al Saud (born 1962), a first cousin of his through his paternal aunt Al Jawhara bint Abdulaziz and her husband Khalid ibn Abdullah.\n\nFahd bin Salman's children are Sultan, Sarah, Ahmad and Rima. One of his daughters, Princess Sarah, married Talal bin Abdulaziz, a grandson of Bandar bin Abdulaziz on 26 May 2011. Their marriage ceremony was also held in Marbella on 2 July 2011.\n\nIt was announced that Fahd bin Salman died due to heart failure in Riyadh on 25 July 2001. Funeral prayers were held at the Turki bin Abdullah Mosque in Riyadh following regular afternoon prayer on 25 July 2001. He was buried in Al Oud cemetery in Riyadh.\n"}
{"id": "22915767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22915767", "title": "Gabriel Sandu", "text": "Gabriel Sandu\n\nGabriel Sandu (born September 8, 1963) is a Romanian economist and politician. A member of the Democratic Liberal Party (PD-L), he was a member of the Romanian Chamber of Deputies for Brăila County from 2004 to 2008. In the Emil Boc cabinet, he was Minister of Communications and Information Society from 2008 to 2010, also serving as interim Minister of Small and Medium Enterprises, Commerce and Business Environment in late 2009.\n\nHe has two sons and is divorced.\n\nHe was born in Mizil, Prahova County and after attending secondary school at the town's Grigore Tocilescu Theoretical High School, with a focus on mathematics and physics, enrolled at the Bucharest Academy of Economic Studies. He graduated in 1989 from the Commerce faculty. From 1990 to 1993 he headed the import-export division at a mattress factory in Mizil. From 1993 to 1997, he was vice president of a furniture producer and distributor in Bucharest. From 1997 to 2004, he was director of a private firm.\n\nAfter joining the Union of Right-Wing Forces (UFD), Sandu became the president of its Prahova County chapter in 1999. He was then vice president (2000-2001) and secretary general (2001-2003) of the party before its absorption into the National Liberal Party (PNL). From 2003 to 2004, he was a supplementary member of the PNL's executive bureau and vice president of its Prahova County chapter. In November 2004, he was elected to the Chamber, where he served on the Committee for Political Economy, Reform and Privatisation. From 2004 to 2006, he was part of the PNL's executive bureau and vice president of its Brăila County chapter. In December 2006, he resigned from the PNL to follow Theodor Stolojan into the new Liberal Democratic Party (PLD), serving as that party's vice president for organisational consolidation and development. A year later, when the PLD merged into the PD-L, Sandu followed, and since then he has served as a vice president of the party and as first vice president of the Prahova County chapter.\n\nAt the 2008 election, Sandu ran for a Prahova County Senate seat, but lost. During the campaign, two builders accused him of not paying 87,724 lei (some $35,000) for two houses he ordered built in Sinaia; his name was also cited by an anti-money laundering agency regarding his dealings with an Italian company that was itself suspected of laundering. The following month, he was named minister in the incoming government. His priorities as minister include rapidly accessing European Union Structural Funds, increasing interoperability among government agencies, developing the IT and broadband sectors, and digital television transition. In October 2009, he became interim Small and Medium Enterprises Minister following the resignation of his PSD cabinet colleagues, including Constantin Niță, the previous occupant of that ministry, holding the portfolio until December. He was dismissed from the Communications Ministry in September 2010, following a cabinet reshuffle.\n\nSandu was implicated in the Microsoft licensing corruption scandal, being charged with bribe-taking and money laundering. In March 2016, the High Court of Cassation and Justice sentenced him to two years' imprisonment and asset forfeiture of €2.2 million. That October, the court increased his prison sentence to three years.\n\n"}
{"id": "203344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=203344", "title": "Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung", "text": "Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung\n\nA Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung (, abbreviated GmbH and also GesmbH in Austria) is a type of legal entity very common in Germany, Austria, Switzerland (where it is equivalent to a société à responsabilité limitée) and Liechtenstein. It is an entity broadly equivalent with the private limited company in the United Kingdom and many Commonwealth countries, and the limited liability company (LLC) in the United States. The name of the GmbH form emphasizes the fact that the owners (\"Gesellschafter\", also known as members) of the entity are not personally liable or credible for the company's debts. \"GmbH\"s are considered legal persons under German, Swiss and Austrian law. Other variations include mbH (used when the term \"Gesellschaft\" is part of the company name itself), and gGmbH (\"gemeinnützige\" GmbH) for non-profit companies.\n\nThe GmbH has become the most common corporation form in Germany, since the AG (\"Aktiengesellschaft\"), the other major company form corresponding to a stock corporation, was much more complicated to form and operate until recently.\n\nThe laws governing this type of legal entity were adopted in Germany in 1892, and in Austria in 1906. The concept of limited liability created by these laws inspired the legal establishment of the limited liability company form in other countries, although the concept of a limited liability company already existed in the United Kingdom.\n\nIt is widely accepted that a GmbH is formed in three stages: the founding association, which is regarded as a private partnership with full liability of the founding partners/members; the founded company (often styled as \"GmbH i.G.\", with \"i.G.\" standing for \"in Gründung\" – literally \"in the founding stages\", with the meaning of \"registration pending\"); and finally the fully registered GmbH. Only the registration of the company in the Commercial Register (\"Handelsregister\") provides the GmbH with its full legal status.\n\nThe founding act and the articles of association have to be notarized. The GmbH law outlines the minimum content of the articles of association, but it is quite common to have a wide range of additional rules in the articles.\n\nUnder German law, the GmbH must have a minimum founding capital of €25,000 (§ 5 I GmbHG), from which €12,500 have to be raised before registering in the commercial register (§ 7 II GmbHG). A supervisory board (\"Aufsichtsrat\") is required if the company has more than 500 employees, otherwise, the company is run only by the managing directors (\"Geschäftsführer\") who have the unrestricted proxy for the company. The members acting collectively may restrict the powers of the managing directors by giving them binding orders. In most cases, the articles of the association list the business activities for which the directors must obtain prior consent from the members. Under German law, a violation of these duties by a managing director will not affect the validity of a contract with a third party, but the GmbH may hold the managing director in question liable for damages.\n\nAs of 2008, a derivate form called Unternehmergesellschaft (haftungsbeschränkt) (English: \"entrepreneurial company (limited liability)\") or short UG (haftungsbeschränkt) was introduced. It does not require a minimum founding capital and was introduced to assist company founders in setting up a new company. Also, the UG must every year enlarge its capital by at least 25% of its yearly net profit (with some adjustments), until the general minimum of €25,000 is reached (at which point the company may change its name for the more prestigious \"GmbH\"). In this case, the word \"haftungsbeschränkt\" must not be abbreviated.\n\nBecause a legal entity with liability limited to the contributed capital was regarded in the 19th century as something dangerous, German law has many restrictions unknown to common law systems. A number of business transactions have to be notarized, such as transfer of shares, issuing of stock, and amendments to the articles of association. Many of those measures have to be filed with the company registry where they are checked by special judges or other judicial officers. This can be a tiresome and time-consuming process, as in most cases the desired measures are legally valid only when entered into the registry. The founding process is expensive. Normally the foundation of new GmbH cost about 1000€ - 3000€.\n\nBecause there is no central company registry in Germany but rather several hundred connected to regional courts, the administration of the law can be rather different between German states. Since 2007 there has been an internet-based central company register for the whole of Germany, called \"Unternehmensregister\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9957275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9957275", "title": "Gilbert Melville Grosvenor", "text": "Gilbert Melville Grosvenor\n\nGilbert Melville Grosvenor, born on May 5, 1931, became president and chairman of the National Geographic Society after having served as the editor of \"National Geographic Magazine\". In 2011, he retired after 23 years as Chairman of the Society.\n\nGrosvenor has received 14 honorary doctorates and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2005 for his leadership in geography education. \"As the world grows smaller and more interdependent daily, our country's future absolutely depends on our ability to see the connections between ourselves and our global neighbors,\" Grosvenor told an interviewer recently.\n\nBorn in Washington, D.C., Grosvenor is the son of Melville Bell Grosvenor and the great-grandson of Alexander Graham Bell. He received a B.A. in psychology from Yale University in 1954. Between his junior and senior years, he volunteered in the Netherlands in efforts to recover from the North Sea flood of 1953 and co-authored an article that was published in the National Geographic. \"Although I'm not sure I realized it at the time, it changed my life,\" Grosvenor recently recalled. \"I discovered the power of journalism. And that's what we are all about—recording those chronicles of planet Earth.\" He subsequently joined the staff of the magazine as a picture editor.\n\nIn 1970, Grosvenor assumed the position of editor of \"National Geographic Magazine\". He served as editor until 1980, when he became president of the National Geographic Society, additionally becoming chairman of the board of trustees (on which he served from 1966 to 2014) in 1987. He retired as president in 1996 and chairman in 2011, since which time he has served as an honorary director of The Explorers Club.\n\nIn 1996, Grosvenor was awarded a Gold Medal by the Royal Canadian Geographical Society and the Scottish Geographical Medal by the Royal Scottish Geographical Society.\n\nGrosvenor was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States, by President George W. Bush on June 23, 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13089", "title": "Global Climate Coalition", "text": "Global Climate Coalition\n\nThe Global Climate Coalition (GCC) (1989–2001) was an international lobbyist group of businesses that opposed action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and challenged the science behind global warming. The GCC was the largest industry group active in climate policy and the most prominent industry advocate in international climate negotiations. The GCC was involved in opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, and played a role in blocking ratification by the United States. The coalition promoted the views of climate skeptics. The GCC dissolved in 2001 after membership declined in the face of improved understanding of the role of greenhouse gases in climate change and of public criticism.\n\nThe Global Climate Coalition (GCC) was formed in 1989 as a project under the auspices of the National Association of Manufacturers. The GCC was formed to represent the interests of the major producers and users of fossil fuels, to oppose regulation to mitigate global warming, and to challenge the science behind global warming. Context for the founding of the GCC from 1988 included the establishment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and NASA climatologist James Hansen's congressional testimony that climate change was occurring. The government affairs' offices of five or six corporations recognized that they had been inadequately organized for the Montreal Protocol, the international treaty that phased out ozone depleting chlorofluorocarbons, and the Clean Air Act in the United States, and recognized that fossil fuels would be targeted for regulation.\n\nAccording to GCC's mission statement on the home page of its website, GCC was established: \"to coordinate business participation in the international policy debate on the issue of global climate change and global warming,\" and GCC's executive director in a 1993 press release said GCC was organized \"as the leading voice for industry on the global climate change issue.\"\n\nGCC reorganized independently in 1992, with the first chairman of the board of directors being the director of government relations for the Phillips Petroleum Company. Exxon was a founding member, and a founding member of the GCC's board of directors. Exxon, and later ExxonMobil, had a leadership role in coalition. The American Petroleum Institute (API) was a leading member of the coalition. API's executive vice president was a chairman of the coalition's board of directors. Other GCC founding members included the National Coal Association, United States Chamber of Commerce, American Forest & Paper Association, and Edison Electric Institute. GCC's executive director John Shleas was previously the director of government relations at the Edison Electric Institute. GCC was run by Ruder Finn, a public relations firm.\n\nGCC was the largest industry group active in climate policy. About 40 companies and industry associations were GCC members. Considering member corporations, member trade associations, and business represented by member trade associations, GCC represented over 230,000 businesses. Industry sectors represented included: aluminium, paper, transportation, power generation, petroleum, chemical, and small businesses. All the major oil companies were members. GCC members were from industries that would have been adversely effected by limitations on fossil fuel consumption. GCC was funded by membership dues.\n\nGCC was one of the most powerful lobbyist groups against action to mitigate global warming. It was the most prominent industry advocate in international climate negotiations, and led a campaign opposed to policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The GCC was one of the most powerful non-governmental organizations representing business interests in climate policy, according to Kal Raustiala, professor at the UCLA School of Law.\n\nGCC's advocacy activities included lobbying government officials, grassroots lobbying through press releases and advertising, participation in international climate conferences, criticism of the processes of international climate organizations, critiques of climate models, and personal attacks on scientists and environmentalists. Policy positions advocated by the coalition included denial of anthropogenic climate change, emphasizing the uncertainty in climatology, advocating for additional research, highlighting the benefits and downplaying the risks of climate change, stressing the priority of economic development, defending national sovereignty, and opposition to the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nGCC sent delegations to all of the major international climate conventions. Only nations and non-profits may send official delegates to the United Nations Climate Change conferences. GCC registered with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as a non-governmental organization, and executives from GCC members attended official UN conferences as GCC delegates.\n\nIn 1990, after U. S. President George H. W. Bush addressed the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) urging caution in responding to global warming, and offering no new proposals, GCC said Bush's speech was \"very strong\" and concurred with the priorities of economic development and additional research. GCC sent 30 attendees to the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, where it lobbied to keep targets and timetables out of the Framework Convention on Climate Change. In December, 1992 GCC's executive director wrote in a letter to \"The New York Times\": \"...there is considerable debate on whether or not man-made greenhouse gases (produced primarily by burning fossil fuels) are triggering a dangerous 'global warming' trend.\" In 1992 GCC distributed a half-hour video entitled \"The Greening of Planet Earth\", to hundreds of journalists, the White House, and several Middle Eastern oil-producing countries, which suggested that increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide could boost crop yields and solve world hunger.\n\nIn 1993, after U. S. President Bill Clinton pledged \"to reducing our emissions of greenhouse gases to their 1990 levels by the year 2000,\" GCC's executive director said it \"could jeopardize the economic health of the nation.\" GCC's lobbying was key to the defeat in the United States Senate of Clinton's 1993 BTU tax proposal. In 1994, after United States Secretary of Energy Hazel R. O'Leary said the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change needed to be strengthened, and that voluntary carbon dioxide reductions may not be enough, GCC said it was: \"disturbed by the implication that the President's voluntary climate action plan, which is just getting under way, will be inadequate and that more stringent measures may be needed domestically.\"\n\nGCC did not fund original scientific research and its climate claims relied largely on the \"World Climate Review\" and its successor the \"World Climate Report\" edited by Patrick Michaels and funded by the Western Fuels Association. GCC promoted the views of climate skeptics such as Michaels, Fred Singer, and Richard Lindzen. In 1996, GCC published a report entitled \"Global warming and extreme weather: fact vs. fiction\" written by Robert E. Davis.\n\nGCC members questioned the efficacy of climate change denial and shifted their message to highlighting the economic costs of proposed greenhouse gas emission regulations and the limited effectiveness of proposals exempting developing nations. In 1995, after the United Nations Climate Change conference in Berlin agreed to negotiate greenhouse gas emission limits, GCC's executive director said the agreement gave \"developing countries like China, India and Mexico a free ride\" and would \"change the relations between sovereign countries and the United Nations. This could have very significant implications. It could be a way of capping our economy.\" At a Washington, D.C. press conference on the eve of the second United Nations Climate Change conference in Geneva, GCC's executive director said, \"The time for decision is not yet now.\" At the conference in Geneva, GCC issued a statement that said it was too early to determine the causes of global warming. GCC representatives lobbied scientists at the September, 1996 IPCC conference in Mexico City.\n\nAfter actor Leonardo DiCaprio, chairman of Earth Day 2000, interviewed Clinton for ABC News, GCC sent out an e-mail that said that DiCaprio's first car was a Jeep Grand Cherokee and that his current car was a Chevrolet Tahoe.\n\nIn 1995, GCC assembled an advisory committee of scientific and technical experts to compile an internal-only, 17-page report on climate science entitled \"Predicting Future Climate Change: A Primer\", which said: “The scientific basis for the Greenhouse Effect and the potential impact of human emissions of greenhouse gases such as CO2 on climate is well established and cannot be denied.” In early 1996, GCC's operating committee asked the advisory committee to redact the sections that rebutted contrarian arguments, and accepted the report and distributed it to members. The draft document was disclosed in a 2007 lawsuit filed by the auto industry against California’s efforts to regulate automotive greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", the primer demonstrated that \"even as the coalition worked to sway opinion, its own scientific and technical experts were advising that the science backing the role of greenhouse gases in global warming could not be refuted.\" According to the Union of Concerned Scientists in 2015, the primer was: \"remarkable for indisputably showing that, while some fossil fuel companies’ deception about climate science has continued to the present day, at least two decades ago the companies’ own scientific experts were internally alerting them about the realities and implications of climate change.\"\n\nGCC was an industry participant in the review process of the IPCC Second Assessment Report. In 1996, prior to the publication of the Second Assessment Report, GCC distributed a report entitled \"The IPCC: Institutionalized Scientific Cleansing\" to reporters, US Congressmen, and scientists. The coalition report said that Benjamin D. Santer, the lead author of Chapter 8 in the assessment, entitled \"Detection of Climate Change and Attribution of Causes,\" had altered the text, after acceptance by the Working Group, and without approval of the authors, to strike content characterizing the uncertainty of the science. Frederick Seitz repeated GCC's charges in a letter to the \"Wall Street Journal\" published June 12, 1996. The coalition ran newspaper advertisements that said: \"unless the management of the IPCC promptly undertakes to republish the printed versions...the IPCC's credibility will have been lost.\"\n\nSanter and his co-authors said the edits were integrations of comments from peer review as per agreed IPCC processes.\n\nGCC was the main industry group in the United States opposed to the Kyoto Protocol, which committed signatories to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The coalition \"was the leading industry group working in opposition to the Kyoto Protocol,\" according to Greenpeace, and led opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, according to the \"Los Angeles Times.\"\n\nPrior to 1997, GCC spent about $1 million annually lobbying against limits on emissions; before Kyoto, GCC annual revenue peaked around $1.5 million; GCC spent $13 million on advertising in opposition to the Kyoto treaty. The coalition funded the Global Climate Information Project and hired the advertising firm that produced the 1993-1994 Harry and Louise advertising campaign which opposed Clinton's health care initiative. The advertisements said, “the UN Climate Treaty isn’t Global...and it won’t work” and \"Americans will pay the price...50 cents more for every gallon of gasoline.\"\n\nGCC opposed the signing of the Kyoto Protocol by Clinton. GCC was influential in the withdrawal from the Kyoto Protocol by the administration of President George W. Bush. According to briefing notes prepared by the United States Department of State for the under-secretary of state, Bush's rejection of the Kyoto Protocol was \"in part based on input from\" GCC. GCC lobbying was key to the July, 1997 unanimous passage in the United States Senate of the Byrd-Hagel Resolution, which reflected the coalition's position that restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions must include developing countries. GCC's chairman told a US congressional committee that mandatory greenhouse gas emissions limits were: \"an unjustified rush to judgement.\" The coalition sent 50 delegates to the third Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Kyoto. On December 11, 1997, the day the Kyoto delegates reached agreement on legally binding limits on greenhouse gas emissions, GCC's chairman said the agreement would be defeated by the US Senate. In 2001, GCC's executive director compared the Kyoto Protocol to the \"RMS Titanic\".\n\nGCC's challenge to science prompted a backlash from environmental groups. Environmentalists described GCC as a \"club for polluters\" and called for members to withdraw their support. \"Abandonment of the Global Climate Coalition by leading companies is partly in response to the mounting evidence that the world is indeed getting warmer,\" according to environmentalist Lester R. Brown. In 1998, Green Party delegates to the European Parliament introduced an unsuccessful proposal that the World Meteorological Organization name hurricanes after GCC members. Defections weakened the coalition. In 1996, British Petroleum resigned and later announced support for the Kyoto Protocol and commitment to greenhouse gas emission reductions. In 1997, Royal Dutch Shell withdrew after criticism from European environmental groups. In 1999, Ford Motor Company was the first US company to withdraw; the \"New York Times\" described the departure as \"the latest sign of divisions within heavy industry over how to respond to global warming.\" DuPont left the coalition in 1997 and Shell Oil (US) left in 1998. In 2000, GCC corporate members were the targets of a national student-run university divestiture campaign. Between December, 1999 and early March, 2000, Texaco, the Southern Company, General Motors and Daimler-Chrysler withdrew. Some former coalition members joined the Business Environmental Leadership Council within the Pew Center on Global Climate Change which represented diverse stakeholders, including business interests, with a commitment to peer-reviewed scientific research and accepted the need for emissions restrictions to address climate change.\n\nIn 2000, GCC restructured as an association of trade associations; membership was limited to trade associations, and individual corporations were represented through their trade association. Brown called the restructuring \"a thinly veiled effort to conceal the real issue - the loss of so many key corporate members.\"\n\nIn 2001, after US President George W. Bush withdrew the US from the Kyoto process, GCC disbanded. Absent the participation of the US, the effectiveness of the Kyoto process was limited. GCC said on its website that its mission had been successfully achieved, writing \"At this point, both Congress and the Administration agree that the U.S. should not accept the mandatory cuts in emissions required by the protocol.\"\n\nIn 2015, the Union of Concerned Scientists compared GCC's role in the public policy debate on climate change to the roles in the public policy debate on tobacco safety of the Tobacco Institute, the tobacco industry's lobbyist group, and the Council for Tobacco Research, which promoted misleading science. Environmentalist Bill McKibben said that, by promoting doubt about the science, \"throughout the 1990s, even as other nations took action, the fossil fuel industry's Global Climate Coalition managed to make American journalists treat the accelerating warming as a he-said-she-said story.\" According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", GCC members integrated projections from climate models into their operational planning while publicly criticising the models.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25596179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25596179", "title": "Grand Hyatt New York", "text": "Grand Hyatt New York\n\nThe Grand Hyatt New York is a hotel located directly east of the Grand Central Terminal in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. Originally named The Commodore Hotel, it opened on January 28, 1919. In 1980, Donald Trump encased the outside of the building in glass and renovated the inside as part of his first construction project in Manhattan.\n\nThe Commodore Hotel was constructed by the Bowman-Biltmore Hotels group. The structure itself was developed as part of \"Terminal City\", a complex of palatial hotels and offices connected to Grand Central Terminal and all owned by the New York State Realty and Terminal Company (NYSRTC), a division of the New York Central Railroad (NYCRR). The Commodore was named after \"Commodore\" Cornelius Vanderbilt, the founder of NYCRR; a statue of Vanderbilt is located outside the hotel. The Commodore was designed by Warren & Wetmore and leased by the NYSRTC to the Bowman-Biltmore Hotels Corporation, of which John McEntee Bowman was president.\n\nThe Commodore opened on January 28, 1919. Herbert R. Stone, of NYSRTC, oversaw the decor of its 2,000 rooms. The lobby, called the \"Most Beautiful Lobby in The World,\" was the single largest room in the hotel, with modern low ceilings and a waterfall designed by John B. Smeraldi. A group of conventioneers once told Bowman that \"New York City was like a circus,\" so the next day Bowman, ever a showman, arranged to place a circus, complete with elephants, in the grand ballroom. Another popular spot was the Century Room, which boasted its own orchestra. The Commodore shared a parking garage with its sister hotel, the New York Biltmore Hotel, which had been Bowman-Biltmore's first hotel investment. Another Terminal City property – The Roosevelt Hotel, originally a United Hotel asset – merged with Bowman-Biltmore Corporation on March 4, 1929, giving Terminal City access to all railroad passenger traffic in and out of New York City. One notable person to have stayed at The Commodore was Albert Einstein, who stayed at the hotel for a few weeks in April 1921 during his tour of the east coast of the US promoting the creation of Hebrew University in Jerusalem.\n\nThe Commodore was successful for decades, and in June 1967, NYCRR – which by then was running the hotel through a division called Realty Hotels – upgraded the Commodore with a 3.4 million-dollar refurbishment. On May 10, 1972, while John R. Garside was the hotel's general manager, the Commodore became the first hotel in New York City to show in-room movies through Player Cinema Systems. By the late 1970s, both the railroad line (now called Penn Central) and the hotel had become less successful. On May 11, 1977, the now-bankrupt railroad's asset manager, Victor Palmieri, told the city that the Commodore had lost $1.5 million in 1976 and might have to be shuttered. \n\nAt that point, Donald Trump reached an option agreement with Penn Central to purchase the Commodore. Trump, however, did not have the $250,000 necessary to secure the option. Nevertheless, Trump's father, Fred Trump, had a long time political connection through the Brooklyn Democratic machine to then-Mayor Abraham Beame. Despite the city being in the midst of the worst fiscal crisis in its history, Beame's deputy mayor, Stanley Friedman, pushed through a 40-year, $400 million tax abatement on the property. Asked by city officials to supply a copy of the agreement with Penn Central, Trump sent the option agreement paperwork minus the signatures. The abatement moved forward as if the agreement had been signed and as if Trump had paid to secure the option. Trump was then able to convince the Hyatt hotel chain to partner with the Trump Organization and purchase the Commodore.\n\nThe Trump Organization rebuilt the hotel at a cost of $100 million, gutting the first few floors of the interior down to their steel frame (although the same basic layout of public rooms was retained) and placing a new reflective glass facade on top of the existing masonry exterior. The work was done by the firm of Gruzen Samton, with architect Der Scutt, who would later design Trump Tower, serving as design consultant. The only portion of the hotel's decor left untouched was the foyer to the grand ballroom, with its neoclassical columns and plasterwork. The hotel re-opened on September 25, 1980, as the Grand Hyatt New York, with Governor of New York Hugh Carey and Mayor of New York City Ed Koch in attendance. The new facade was criticized as out of place and as having destroyed the character of East 42nd Street. The American Institute of Architects’ guide to New York buildings referred to the facade as an “utter and inexcusable outrage.” \n\nIn 1989, New York State officials ordered the hotel to pay New York City $2.9 million in rent that had been withheld by the hotel in 1986 due to \"unusual\" accounting changes approved by Donald Trump. An investigation by New York City auditors noted that the hotel was missing basic financial records and found that the hotel was using procedures that violated Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.\n\nThe Trump/Hyatt partnership eventually collapsed, with Trump filing a civil racketeering suit against Hyatt owner Jay Pritzker on July 28, 1993, alleging that Hyatt had used improper accounting practices, in order to force Trump out of the partnership with Hyatt, which restricted the chain from operating any other convention hotel in New York City. The Pritzkers countersued on March 28, 1994, alleging that Trump had violated their partnership by failing to remain solvent, using his share in the hotel as collateral for bank loans, and refusing to cover his share of the cost of necessary repairs. The much-needed renovation of the hotel finally began on April 8, 1996, and continued through that August. Finally, on October 7, 1996, the Pritzkers bought Trump's half-share in the hotel for $142 million, ending the partnership.\n\nThe hotel won the 2007 and 2008 \"Corporate and Incentive Travel\" magazine \"Award of Excellence.\" It was completely renovated in 2011, at a cost of $130 million, at which point the 1980s modern interiors were removed. The renovation was complicated by the structure's 1919 origins, including 138 different guest-room configurations.\n"}
{"id": "19415577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19415577", "title": "Hazel Crane", "text": "Hazel Crane\n\nHazel Crane (1951 – 10 November 2003) was a prominent socialite, businesswoman and posthumous memoirist in South Africa. She was assassinated on 10 November 2003 near her mansion home in the plush Northern Johannesburg suburb of Abbotsford, the same suburb where controversial mining magnate Brett Kebble was murdered later in 2005.\n\nBorn as Hazel Elizabeth Magee in Belfast, Northern Ireland, she emigrated to then Rhodesia as a child and later to South Africa in adult life. In South Africa she was involved in several philanthropic committees and projects, such as the educational sponsorship of poor students.\n\nCrane was previously married to Anthony Crane, although he was killed at age 25 in combat in the Rhodesian Bush War. The couple already had one child, and at the time of her husband's death, Crane was pregnant with their second child. She later had a tumultuous marriage with alleged Israeli mafia boss Shai Avissar. At the time of his murder in 1999, the couple were estranged.\n\nShe was a close friend of Winnie Mandela, who attended her funeral and was the chief witness in her wedding to Avissar. Crane accompanied Mandela during her hearings before the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.\n\nCrane was shot dead in her car in November 2003, while travelling to the Johannesburg High Court to attend the trial of alleged Israeli mafia member Lior Saat, accused of murdering Crane's estranged husband near Sunninghill, Gauteng in 1999. Crane had been travelling with a female companion, who was shot in the hand, but police determined that the incident was a \"direct attack\" on Crane's life, who was shot in the head, leg, chest and arm. It later emerged that Crane had been expected to testify in the murder case against Saat and a source close to Crane said that she knew too much, being able to identify and implicate a number of figures in the Saat murder case. She was the third state witness in the Saat murder trial to be murdered; Giulio Bascelli was shot in the head in a deserted garage soon after Avassi's death in 1999 and Carlo Binne was shot dead at the Gecko Lounge, a Johannesburg nightclub, in April 2001.\nPrior to her death, Crane was working with a British journalist, David Kray on her memoirs. The biography, \"Hazel Crane: Testimony from Beyond the Grave\" received a posthumous release in 2004 and contained several shocking details about the socialite's colourful past. The book details Crane's own secret life of crime. She made her fortune by smuggling diamonds and emeralds, making blackmarket currency deals, owning a striptease joint and selling hard-core pornography. She also tells of how she would tuck emeralds into her beehive hairdo or pack them into her son's nappies for smuggling. Prior to a crime career, she trained as a State Registered Nurse in Rhodesia and in later life was an active businesswoman. \n\n"}
{"id": "23247908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23247908", "title": "Hilton San Francisco Financial District", "text": "Hilton San Francisco Financial District\n\nHilton San Francisco Financial District is a 27-story hotel located in Chinatown's Portsmouth Square in San Francisco, California at 750 Kearny Street. Formerly the Holiday Inn Chinatown, the hotel re-opened in January 2006 after a renovation.\n\nThe lobby interior, designed by Gensler, is based on the ancient Chinese aesthetic system of Feng Shui. Water, fire and earth, three of Feng Shui's five elements, greet visitors as they enter the lobby, beginning with a medallion fountain centered in the hotel foyer. Potted orchids line the lobby perimeter and represent earth. A glass-enclosed fireplace marks the entrance to The Grille at Seven Fifty and completes the Feng Shui circle.\n\nThe Hotel is connected to nearby Portsmouth Square via a pedestrian bridge across Kearny Street. It is within walking distance of the Financial District, North Beach and Chinatown. Onsite attractions and outlets include The Grille at Seven Fifty, Flyte Wine Bar, Tru Spa and the Chinese Culture Center.\n\nThe landmark site of the Hilton San Francisco Financial District dates back to the mid-19th century. The Jenny Lind Theatre was the original structure, followed by City Hall. In 1900 the San Francisco Hall of Justice was built on this site but it burned in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire. The Hall of Justice was rebuilt and re-opened in 1912. That building was on the site until it was demolished in 1968. The hotel was built on the site in 1971. The hotel was completely renovated the reopened in January 2006 as the Hilton San Francisco Financial District.\n\nThe television show Ironside (1967–75), starring Raymond Burr, featured many exterior shots of the old SF Police headquarters formerly located on the land now occupied by the hotel. This was supposed to be the site of Ironside's office, the building was actually the old San Francisco Hall of Justice. The old Hall of Justice was demolished in April 1968.\n\nThe hotel was originally built as the Holiday Inn Chinatown in 1971. The new hotel had an unusual rooftop swimming pool that is featured in the opening scenes of the first Dirty Harry film (1971).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13654308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13654308", "title": "John Guard", "text": "John Guard\n\nJohn 'Jacky' Guard (ca. 1791/92 – 1857) was an English convict sent to Australia who was one of the first European settlers in the South Island of New Zealand, working as a whaler and trader.\n\nGuard was born in London in 1791 or 1792. On 17 March 1813 at age 21, the stonecutter was convicted of stealing a quilt and sentenced to transportation and five years hard labour. At the end of his sentence, he worked as a sealer, and after five or six years had his own boat and crew.\n\nGuard can lay credit to a number of European firsts in New Zealand's South Island. His whaling station, established at Te Awaiti on the Arapaoa Island shore of Tory Channel in 1827, was the first permanent settlement in the South Island. (previous whaling stations having been seasonal) Guard's wife Elizabeth or Betty (née Parker, 1814–1870) whom he married in Sydney in 1830, was the first European woman to settle in the South Island. Guard's son, John junior (born 1 October 1831) was the first European child born in the South Island and his daughter Louisa (born late 1833) the first female child.\n\nA year after starting the Te Awaiti station, in 1828, he started a branch whaling station at Port Underwood using the ship Waterloo. He used the ship to transport flax,whale oil and seal skins to Sydney 3 times per year, returning with supplies and trade goods. Later he had to abandon the Te Awaiti station.\n\nIn 1834 he was wrecked off the Taranaki coast in the \"Harriet\" with his wife and family and crew. The survivors were attacked by two different groups of local Maori. The wreck was plundered and 14 crew killed and two eaten. Betty Guard was tomahawked in the head, only her comb saving her life. Mrs Guard and her daughter were taken by the chief but the young boy of two 1/2, was taken away from his mother and not seen for two months.\n\nRichard Bourke, the governor of New South Wales, dispatched HMS Alligator to Taranaki with a group of 60 British soldiers of the 50th Regiment. They landed a small party on the coast and attempted negotiations with the Maori captors to recover the eight remaining crew, Guard's wife and two children, John and Louisa, but were chased away. The Alligator was forced out to sea by bad weather. Together with the ship Isabella, it returned to the Taranaki coast and landed a detachment of sailors and marines. An arrangement was made to ransom the prisoners. The captain suspected the prisoner were being held at Te Namu Pa and landed a party there. They made contact with Maori. Guard grabbed the chief and took him back to the Alligator where he was beaten up. His wounds were then treated by the surgeon. The next day large numbers of Maori gathered on the beach but negotiations stalled until the Maori chief, Oaoiti, was brought ashore. He made a speech to the Maori captors and immediately Mrs Guard and her baby daughter were taken to the Alligator by waka but the boy was still held prisoner. While negotiations continued for his release a shot from the Pa was fired, narrowly missing a sailor. The captain ordered a bombardment of the pa that lasted 3 hours during which the Maori hostage takers raised and then lowered a white flag several times. Near the end of the bombardment a Maori held up the captive boy to indicate he had not been killed. The Alligator's surgeon landed with 100 men. The boy was handed over and the soldiers then opened fire on the Maori gathered on the beach. The Maori fled and the pa was burnt down. The surgeon was horrified at the troop's action. This was the first clash between Māori and British troops. The rescue expedition sent by Governor Bourke from Sydney was subsequently criticised by a British House of Commons report in 1835. Bourke used the kidnappings, murders and cannibalism to argue for a British warship to be permanently stationed in New Zealand.\n\nGuard settled permanently at Port Underwood in 1836, and was still whaling off the Kaikoura coast in the 1840s. About this time onshore whaling ceased to be economically viable in New Zealand. His later life is unknown, but he probably farmed at Kakapo Bay. Guard died in 1857.\n\nReports on the Parliamentary Select committee on Aboriginal Tribes 1935\n"}
{"id": "5608672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5608672", "title": "Josiah Franklin", "text": "Josiah Franklin\n\nJosiah Franklin Sr. (December 23, 1657 – January 16, 1745) was an English businessman and the father of Benjamin Franklin. Born in the village of Ecton, Northamptonshire, England, Josiah was the ninth child of blacksmith Thomas Franklin (b. 1598), and his first wife, Jane White. Thomas was the son of Henry Franckline (b. 1573) and Agnes Joanes. Thomas Franklin remarried and had more children. Josiah Franklin was an industrious young man who worked as a fabric dyer in Ecton. In Boston, he was a member of the Congregational Old South Church where he served as a tithingman.\nFranklin immigrated to the American colonies in 1682. He married twice and had 17 children - ten boys and seven girls.\n\nJosiah Franklin married his first wife, Anne Child, in 1677 and they had seven children: Elizabeth, Samuel, Hannah. Josiah Jr., Joseph (1688-1688), Joseph II (1689-1689), and Ann. Upon moving to Boston, he took up the trade of tallow chandler and soap boiler because the trade he was born to was not in demand in New England.\n\nIn November 1689, Josiah Franklin married his second wife, Abiah Folger, in the Old South Church. Abiah of Nantucket, Massachusetts, was the daughter of Peter and Mary \"Morrill\" Foulger. Peter Foulger was a schoolmaster, a miller and a surveyor.\n\nAbiah bore Josiah 10 children: John (1690), Peter (1692), Mary (1694), James (1697), Sarah (1699), Ebenezer (1701), Thomas (1703), Benjamin (1706), Lydia (1708), and Jane (1712).\n\nJosiah insisted that each of his sons must learn a trade. He had great dreams of Benjamin becoming a minister, but Josiah could only afford to send his son to school for two years. As his young Benjamin loved to read, Josiah apprenticed him to his brother James, who was a printer. Later, Benjamin Franklin borrowed books from his friends and taught himself arithmetic, grammar, and philosophy. Benjamin, whose full name was Benjamin Josiah Franklin, had a very strong relationship with his father, who had a great influence on Benjamin.\n"}
{"id": "49054463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49054463", "title": "Karl Söderman", "text": "Karl Söderman\n\nKarl Wilhelm Söderman (7 May 1863 — 21 October 1911) was a Finnish engineer, businessman and vuorineuvos.\n\nBefore his studies Söderman worked for Helsinki Gas Works, where he got a staunch practical experience of shop floor work. After graduating in Polytechnic Institute as 22-year-old engineer in 1886 he started working for John Stenberg's Engineering Works. The owner died in the same year after which Söderman managed and developed the company during 1887–1892.\n\nIn 1892 Söderman started as manager of Kone ja Silta, which during his leadership grew the largest engineering company of Finland.\n\nSöderman was twice member of Helsinki City Council and founding member of Finnish General Employers' Organisation.\n\nHe died to an unknown disease during health travel in Meran, South Tyrol.\n\nSöderman was born in Oulu, Northern Ostrobothnia. His parents were sawmill operator Karl Söderman, whose roots were in Kronoby, and Margaretha née Lybeck. Soon after his birth the family moved to Pori and onward to Kaunissaari in Porvoo, where the father became property manager of August Eklöf's steam sawmill. Already at a young age Söderman became familiar with timber industry. Söderman had his primary education in Porvoo. After the primary school Söderman started working in Helsinki Gas Works' engineering shop; he became familiar with engineering workshop operations including model carpenter, plumber and coppersmith work. At the same time there worked many innovative engineers, such as Edvin Bergroth.\n\nSöderman managed to get into Polytechnic Institute in 1882. He funded his studies by doing drawing work and giving private lessons, and participated in student organisational activities. Söderman graduated engineer in 1886.\n\nAfter graduating, Söderman started working for John Stenberg's Engineering Works. The founder John Didrik Stenberg passed away in the same year. The widow Pauline Stenberg offered the company to Edvin Bergroth, who refused, as he had recently started as technical manager in Nobel Brothers in Baku. 22-year-old Söderman, without experience about company management, rented the engineering works for 1887–1888 and continued managing it until 1892. During his leadership the company made 12,000–15,000 marks' annual profit and product quality was improved substantially.\n\nIn 1888 Söderman married daughter of John Stenberg, 19-year-old Ellen Stenberg.\n\nSöderman's capability was noted by Gunnar Lindqvist, manager of Brobyggnads Ab, who invited him in December 1891 to lead a new company Maskin- och Brobyggnads Ab (, \"Machine and Bridge Construction Limited\"; shortened as Kone ja Silta), which was created in result of merger between Osbergska Verkstad and Brobyggnads Ab. The main products were railway bridges and steam boilers. Although the beginning was difficult, few months after the company started increasingly receiving orders from Russia. In 1894 orders to Russia reached 1.1 million marks, which formed 80% of the total sales; in the following year the Russian orders were already 1.6 million marks, which made Kone ja Silta the biggest Engineering company of Finland in terms of gross value added.\n\nDependency on the Russian market created problems when political tensions between the Russian Empire and Grand Duchy of Finland culminated in 1902: a political committee in Russia suggested that Finland shall be treated as foreign country in tariff policy which would mean high toll fees for Finnish products. Finnish engineering companies became concerned and wrote a common letter which Karl Söderman and John Eager, manager of W:m Crichton & C:o delivered together to Vladimir Kovalevsky in Ministry of Finance. Although the meeting was not successful, the Russian government cancelled the plans of extra tariffs at the end of the year.\n\nThe average annual GVA was under one million marks in period 1892–1894, but in period 1904–1908 it was quadrupled. The top year was in 1905, when the company benefited from increased orders due to the Russo-Japanese War; the GVA reached 6.2 million marks.\n\nSöderman was member of Helsinki City Council during 1896–1901 and 1904–1906.\n\nAs Söderman had worked on shop floor himself, he had good communication and understanding with the company workers. He founded a common pension fund for Kone ja Silta blue and white collar workers and strove for creating a national accident and health insurance system. In 1899 he attended in a committee that investigated possibilities to start vocational school for metal workers.\n\nStriking became increasingly common at the beginning of the 20th century. Unrest experienced in 1902 in particular prompted the employers to create a counter-force to trade unions. This was initiated by Adolf Engström, manager of Hietalahti Shipyard and Engineering works. The organisation was founded in 1903 and Söderman became the first chairman of the new Confederation of Metal Industrialists. At the beginning many employers were not interested to unionise and the new union was too weak. The situation changed after the general strike of 1905; the Finnish General Employers' Organisation was founded in 1906 and Söderman was its board member until his death. According to contemporary documents of the organisation, Söderman had a major role at its establishment.\n\nSöderman had two children with Ellen née Stenberg (1868–1923): son Karl Helmer was born in 1889 and became later engineer, and daughter Saga Margareta was born in 1897.\n\nSöderman's favourite hobby was yachting. He was vice commodore of Nyländska Jaktklubben and he won several sail racing prizes in Finland and Sweden.\n\nFor many years Söderman suffered of an unknown disease. He travelled to Meran, South Tyrol for health holiday in 1911 but deceased during the trip.\n"}
{"id": "51730300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51730300", "title": "Keivan Zokaei", "text": "Keivan Zokaei\n\nKeivan Zokaei is the co-author of \"Creating a Lean and Green Business System: Techniques for Improving Profits and Sustainability,\" which won the Shingo Research and Professional Publication Award in 2014. The other authors include Hunter Lovins, Andy Wood, and Peter Hines.\n\nPrior to establishing the consulting group Enterprize Excellence, he was a partner at SA Partners, and was a director at the Lean Enterprise Research Centre (LERC) at Cardiff University.\n"}
{"id": "36877100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36877100", "title": "Kingsley Uyi Idehen", "text": "Kingsley Uyi Idehen\n\nKingsley Uyi Idehen is Founder, President, and CEO of OpenLink Software, a privately held company founded in 1992. Born in Manchester, England in 1965, Idehen was raised in both Great Britain and Nigeria. In the mid 1990s, he relocated to the United States, and OpenLink now has headquarters in both the US and UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "421089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421089", "title": "Lee Byung-chul", "text": "Lee Byung-chul\n\nLee Byung-chul (12 February 1910 – 19 November 1987) was the founder of the Samsung Group and one of South Korea's most successful businessmen. With the breakup of the Hyundai chaebol, Samsung is now South Korea's largest business group.\n\nByung-chul was the son of a wealthy landowning family (a branch of the Gyeongju Lee clan). He attended college at Waseda University in Tokyo but did not complete his degree.\n\nByung-chul established a trucking business in Daegu on 1 March 1938, which he named Samsung Trading Co, the forerunner to Samsung. Samsung means \"Three Stars\" which explains the initial corporate logos.\n\nBy 1945 Samsung was transporting goods throughout Korea and to other countries. The company was based in Seoul by 1947. It was one of the ten largest \"trading companies\" when the Korean War started in 1950. With the conquest of Seoul by the North Korean army, Lee was forced to relocate his business to Busan. The massive influx of U.S. troops and equipment into Busan over the next year and a half of the war proved to be highly beneficial to Lee's trucking company.\n\nIn 1961 when General Park seized power, Lee was in Japan and for some time he did not return to South Korea. Eventually, a deal was struck and Lee returned but Samsung had to give up control over the banks it acquired and follow economic directives from Park's government.\n\nThe first step of the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI) was established in August 1961. The association was founded by Samsung Group Chairman Lee Byung-chul. He was a noble leader to every employee that walked through the office.\n\nLater in life, Byung-chul served as chairman of the Federation of Korean Industries and was known as the richest man in Korea.\n\nAfter his death, Byung-chul's estate (Ho-Am) was opened to the public for tours. His collection of Korean art is considered one of the largest private collections in the country and it features a number of art objects that have been designated \"National Treasures\" by the Korean government. Ho-Am is located a short distance from the Everland park, South Korea's most popular amusement park (Everland is also owned by the Samsung Group).\n\nThe family of Lee Byung-chul\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26237955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26237955", "title": "Lex Mundi", "text": "Lex Mundi\n\nLex Mundi is a professional services network. It is the largest law firm network. The network was established in 1989. As of 2015 it had over 160 member firms totaling at more than 21,000 attorneys. The network provides information to its members about developments in local and global law.\n\nEach member firm is required to provide a full range of commercial legal services and be considered a leader in the use of technology and law firm management.\n\nLex Mundi's leadership consists of six Officers and a Board of Directors.\n\nThe non-profit Lex Mundi Pro Bono Foundation, a Lex Mundi affiliate, coordinates member firms who offer pro bono legal services to social entrepreneurs around the world.\n"}
{"id": "7697949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7697949", "title": "List of technology centers", "text": "List of technology centers\n\nThis is a list of technology centers throughout the world. Governmental planners and business networks like to use the name \"silicon\" or \"valley\" to describe their own areas as a result of the success of Silicon Valley in California. Nevertheless, there are a few qualitative differences between these places, and metrics may be applied to measure their dominance.\n\nThese metrics include:\n\n\nCameroon\n\nEgypt\n\nKenya\n\nMauritius\n\nMorocco\n\nSouth Africa\n\nZambia\n\nBolivia\n\nBrazil\n\nCanada\nChile\nGuatemala\n\nMexico\n\nUnited States\n\nChina\n\nHong Kong\n\nIndia\n\nIran\n\n\nIsrael\n\nJapan\n\nMalaysia\n\nMyanmar\n\n\nPakistan\n\nPhilippines\n\nQatar\n\nSaudi Arabia\n\nSingapore\n\nSouth Korea\n\nTaiwan\n\n\nThailand\n\nUnited Arab Emirates\n\nVietnam\n\n\nAustria\n\nBelarus\n\nCzech Republic\n\nFinland\n\nFrance\nGermany\n\nHungary\nIreland\n\nItaly\n\nNetherlands\n\nPortugal\n\nRussia\n\nRomania\n\nSlovakia\n\nSpain\n\nSweden\n\nTurkey\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\n\nUkraine\n\n\nThe following list contains places with \"Silicon\" names, that is, places with nicknames inspired by the \"Silicon Valley\" nickname given to part of the San Francisco Bay Area:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nUkraine\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19881", "title": "Management", "text": "Management\n\nManagement (or managing) is the administration of an organization, whether it is a business, a not-for-profit organization, or government body. Management includes the activities of setting the strategy of an organization and coordinating the efforts of its employees (or of volunteers) to accomplish its objectives through the application of available resources, such as financial, natural, technological, and human resources. The term \"management\" may also refer to those people who manage an organization.\n\nSocial scientists study management as an academic discipline, investigating areas such as social organization and organizational leadership. Some people study management at colleges or universities; major degrees in management include the Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com.) and Master of Business Administration (MBA.) and, for the public sector, the Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree. Individuals who aim to become management specialists or experts, management researchers, or professors may complete the Doctor of Management (DM), the Doctor of Business Administration (DBA), or the PhD in Business Administration or Management.\n\nLarger organizations generally have three levels of managers, which are typically organized in a hierarchical, pyramid structure:\n\n\nIn smaller organizations, an individual manager may have a much wider scope. A single manager may perform several roles or even all of the roles commonly observed in a large organization.\n\nViews on the definition and scope of management include:\n\nManagement involves identifying the mission, objective, procedures, rules and manipulation\nof the human capital of an enterprise to contribute to the success of the enterprise. This implies effective communication: an enterprise environment (as opposed to a physical or mechanical mechanism) implies human motivation and implies some sort of successful progress or system outcome. As such, management is not the manipulation of a mechanism (machine or automated program), not the herding of animals, and can occur either in a legal or in an illegal enterprise or environment. From an individual's perspective, management does not need to be seen solely from an enterprise point of view, because management is an essential function to improve one's life and relationships. Management is therefore everywhere and it has a wider range of application. Based on this, management must have humans. Communication and a positive endeavor are two main aspects of it either through enterprise or independent pursuit. Plans, measurements, motivational psychological tools, goals, and economic measures (profit, etc.) may or may not be necessary components for there to be management. At first, one views management functionally, such as measuring quantity, adjusting plans, meeting goals. This applies even in situations where planning does not take place. From this perspective, Henri Fayol (1841–1925)\nconsiders management to consist of six functions:\n\n\nIn another way of thinking, Mary Parker Follett (1868–1933), allegedly defined management as \"the art of getting things done through people\".\nShe described management as philosophy.\n\nCritics, however, find this definition useful but far too narrow. The phrase \"management is what managers do\" occurs widely,\nsuggesting the difficulty of defining management without circularity, the shifting nature of definitions and the connection of managerial practices with the existence of a managerial cadre or of a class.\n\nOne habit of thought regards management as equivalent to \"business administration\" and thus excludes management in places outside commerce, as for example in charities and in the public sector. More broadly, every organization must \"manage\" its work, people, processes, technology, etc. to maximize effectiveness. Nonetheless, many people refer to university departments that teach management as \"business schools\". Some such institutions (such as the Harvard Business School) use that name, while others (such as the Yale School of Management) employ the broader term \"management\".\n\nEnglish-speakers may also use the term \"management\" or \"the management\" as a collective word describing the managers of an organization, for example of a corporation.\nHistorically this use of the term often contrasted with the term \"labor\" – referring to those being managed.\n\nBut in the present era the concept of management is identified in the wide areas and its frontiers have been pushed to a broader range. Apart from profitable organizations even non-profitable organizations (NGOs) apply management concepts. The concept and its uses are not constrained. Management on the whole is the process of planning, organizing, coordinating, leading and controlling.\n\nIn profitable organizations, management's primary function is the satisfaction of a range of stakeholders. This typically involves making a profit (for the shareholders), creating valued products at a reasonable cost (for customers), and providing great employment opportunities for employees. In nonprofit management, add the importance of keeping the faith of donors. In most models of management and governance, shareholders vote for the board of directors, and the board then hires senior management. Some organizations have experimented with other methods (such as employee-voting models) of selecting or reviewing managers, but this is rare.\n\nSome see management as a late-modern (in the sense of late modernity) conceptualization. On those terms it cannot have a pre-modern history - only harbingers (such as stewards). Others, however, detect management-like thought among ancient Sumerian traders and the builders of the pyramids of ancient Egypt. Slave-owners through the centuries faced the problems of exploiting/motivating a dependent but sometimes unenthusiastic or recalcitrant workforce, but many pre-industrial enterprises, given their small scale, did not feel compelled to face the issues of management systematically. However, innovations such as the spread of Hindu numerals (5th to 15th centuries) and the codification of double-entry book-keeping (1494) provided tools for management assessment, planning and control.\n\nMachiavelli wrote about how to make organisations efficient and effective. The principles that Machiavelli set forth in \"Discourses\" (1531) can apply in adapted form to the management of organisations today:\n\nWith the changing workplaces of industrial revolutions in the 18th and 19th centuries, military theory and practice contributed approaches to managing the newly-popular factories.\n\nGiven the scale of most commercial operations and the lack of mechanized record-keeping and recording before the industrial revolution, it made sense for most owners of enterprises in those times to carry out management functions by and for themselves. But with growing size and complexity of organizations, a distinction between owners (individuals, industrial dynasties or groups of shareholders) and day-to-day managers (independent specialists in planning and control) gradually became more common.\n\nThe English verb \"manage\" comes from the Italian \"maneggiare\" (to handle, especially tools or a horse), which derives from the two Latin words \"manus\" (hand) and \"agere\" (to act). The French word for housekeeping, \"ménagerie\", derived from \"ménager\" (\"to keep house\"; compare \"ménage\" for \"household\"), also encompasses taking care of domestic animals. \"Ménagerie\" is the French translation of Xenophon's famous book \"Oeconomicus\" () on household matters and husbandry. The French word \"mesnagement\" (or \"ménagement\") influenced the semantic development of the English word \"management\" in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nManagement (according to some definitions) has existed for millennia, and several writers have produced background works that have contributed to modern management theories. Some theorists have cited as providing lessons for civilian managers. For example, Chinese general Sun Tzu in his 6th-century BC work \"The Art of War\" recommends (when re-phrased in modern terminology) being aware of and acting on strengths and weaknesses of both a manager's organization and a foe's. The writings of influential Chinese Legalist philosopher Shen Buhai may be considered to embody a rare premodern example of abstract theory of administration.\n\nVarious ancient and medieval civilizations produced \"mirrors for princes\" books, which aimed to advise new monarchs on how to govern. Plato described job specialization in 350 BC, and Alfarabi listed several leadership traits in AD 900. Other examples include the Indian \"Arthashastra\" by Chanakya (written around 300 BC), and \"The Prince\" by Italian author\nNiccolò Machiavelli (c. 1515).\n\nWritten in 1776 by Adam Smith, a Scottish moral philosopher, \"The Wealth of Nations\" discussed efficient organization of work through division of labour.\nSmith described how changes in processes could boost productivity in the manufacture of pins. While individuals could produce 200 pins per day, Smith analyzed the steps involved in manufacture and, with 10 specialists, enabled production of 48,000 pins per day.\n\nClassical economists such as Adam Smith (1723–1790) and John Stuart Mill (1806–1873) provided a theoretical background to resource-allocation, production, and pricing issues. About the same time, innovators like Eli Whitney (1765–1825), James Watt (1736–1819), and Matthew Boulton (1728–1809) developed elements of technical production such as standardization, quality-control procedures, cost-accounting, interchangeability of parts, and work-planning. Many of these aspects of management existed in the pre-1861 slave-based sector of the US economy. That environment saw 4 million people, as the contemporary usages had it, \"managed\" in profitable quasi-mass production.\n\nSalaried managers as an identifiable group first became prominent in the late 19th century.\n\nBy about 1900 one finds managers trying to place their theories on what they regarded as a thoroughly scientific basis (see scientism for perceived limitations of this belief). Examples include Henry R. Towne's \"Science of management\" in the 1890s, Frederick Winslow Taylor's \"The Principles of Scientific Management\" (1911), Lillian Gilbreth's \"Psychology of Management\" (1914), Frank and Lillian Gilbreth's \"Applied motion study\" (1917), and Henry L. Gantt's charts (1910s). J. Duncan wrote the first college management-textbook in 1911. In 1912 Yoichi Ueno introduced Taylorism to Japan and became the first management consultant of the \"Japanese-management style\". His son Ichiro Ueno pioneered Japanese quality assurance.\n\nThe first comprehensive theories of management appeared around 1920. The Harvard Business School offered the first Master of Business Administration degree (MBA) in 1921. People like Henri Fayol (1841–1925) and Alexander Church (1866-1936) described the various branches of management and their inter-relationships. In the early-20th century, people like Ordway Tead (1891–1973), Walter Scott (1869-1955) and J. Mooney applied the principles of psychology to management. Other writers, such as Elton Mayo (1880–1949), Mary Parker Follett (1868–1933), Chester Barnard (1886–1961), Max Weber (1864–1920), who saw what he called the \"administrator\" as bureaucrat, Rensis Likert (1903–1981), and Chris Argyris (born 1923) approached the phenomenon of management from a sociological perspective.\n\nPeter Drucker (1909–2005) wrote one of the earliest books on applied management: \"Concept of the Corporation\" (published in 1946). It resulted from Alfred Sloan (chairman of General Motors until 1956) commissioning a study of the organisation. Drucker went on to write 39 books, many in the same vein.\n\nH. Dodge, Ronald Fisher (1890–1962), and Thornton C. Fry introduced statistical techniques into management-studies. In the 1940s, Patrick Blackett worked in the development of the applied-mathematics science of operations research, initially for military operations. Operations research, sometimes known as \"management science\" (but distinct from Taylor's scientific management), attempts to take a scientific approach to solving decision-problems, and can apply directly to multiple management problems, particularly in the areas of logistics and operations.\n\nSome of the more developments include the Theory of Constraints, management by objectives, reengineering, Six Sigma, the Viable system model, and various information-technology-driven theories such as agile software development, as well as group-management theories such as Cog's Ladder.\n\nAs the general recognition of managers as a class solidified during the 20th century and gave perceived practitioners of the art/science of management a certain amount of prestige, so the way opened for popularised systems of management ideas to peddle their wares. In this context many management fads may have had more to do with pop psychology than with scientific theories of management.\n\nTowards the end of the 20th century, business management came to consist of six separate branches, namely:\n\n\nIn the 21st century observers find it increasingly difficult to subdivide management into functional categories in this way. More and more processes simultaneously involve several categories. Instead, one tends to think in terms of the various processes, tasks, and objects subject to management.\n\nBranches of management theory also exist relating to nonprofits and to government: such as public administration, public management, and educational management. Further, management programs related to civil-society organizations have also spawned programs in nonprofit management and social entrepreneurship.\n\nNote that many of the assumptions made by management have come under attack from business-ethics viewpoints, critical management studies, and anti-corporate activism.\n\nAs one consequence, workplace democracy (sometimes referred to as Workers' self-management) has become both more common and more advocated, in some places distributing all management functions among workers, each of whom takes on a portion of the work. However, these models predate any current political issue, and may occur more naturally than does a command hierarchy. All management embraces to some degree a democratic principle—in that in the long term, the majority of workers must support management. Otherwise, they leave to find other work or go on strike. Despite the move toward workplace democracy, command-and-control organization structures remain commonplace as \"de facto\" organization structures. Indeed, the entrenched nature of command-and-control is evident in the way that recent layoffs have been conducted with management ranks affected far less than employees at the lower levels. In some cases, management has even rewarded itself with bonuses after laying off lower-level workers.\n\nAccording to leadership-academic Manfred F.R. Kets de Vries, a contemporary senior-management team will almost inevitably have some personality disorders.\n\nAccording to Fayol, management operates through five basic functions: planning, organizing, coordinating, commanding, and controlling.\n\nFigurehead, leader\nNerve centre, disseminator\nEntrepreneur, negotiator, allocator\n\nManagement skills include:\n\n\n\nMost organizations have three management levels: first-level, middle-level, and top-level managers. First-line managers are the lowest level of management and manage the work of nonmanagerial individuals who are directly involved with the production or creation of the organization's products. First-line managers are often called supervisors, but may also be called line managers, office managers, or even foremen. Middle managers include all levels of management between the first-line level and the top level of the organization. These managers manage the work of first-line managers and may have titles such as department head, project leader, plant manager, or division manager. Top managers are responsible for making organization-wide decisions and establishing the plans and goals that affect the entire organization. These individuals typically have titles such as executive vice president, president, managing director, chief operating officer, chief executive officer, or chairman of the board.\n\nThese managers are classified in a hierarchy of authority, and perform different tasks. In many organizations, the number of managers in every level resembles a pyramid. Each level is explained below in specifications of their different responsibilities and likely job titles.\n\nThe top or senior layer of management consists of the board of directors (including non-executive directors and executive directors), president, vice-president, CEOs and other members of the C-level executives. Different organizations have various members in their C-suite, which may include a Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology Officer, and so on. They are responsible for controlling and overseeing the operations of the entire organization. They set a \"tone at the top\" and develop strategic plans, company policies, and make decisions on the overall direction of the organization. In addition, top-level managers play a significant role in the mobilization of outside resources. Senior managers are accountable to the shareholders, the general public and to public bodies that oversee corporations and similar organizations. Some members of the senior management may serve as the public face of the organization, and they may make speeches to introduce new strategies or appear in marketing.\n\nThe board of directors is typically primarily composed of non-executives who owe a fiduciary duty to shareholders and are not closely involved in the day-to-day activities of the organization, although this varies depending on the type (e.g., public versus private), size and culture of the organization. These directors are theoretically liable for breaches of that duty and typically insured under directors and officers liability insurance. Fortune 500 directors are estimated to spend 4.4 hours per week on board duties, and median compensation was $212,512 in 2010. The board sets corporate strategy, makes major decisions such as major acquisitions, and hires, evaluates, and fires the top-level manager (Chief Executive Officer or CEO). The CEO typically hires other positions. However, board involvement in the hiring of other positions such as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) has increased. In 2013, a survey of over 160 CEOs and directors of public and private companies found that the top weaknesses of CEOs were \"mentoring skills\" and \"board engagement\", and 10% of companies never evaluated the CEO. The board may also have certain employees (e.g., internal auditors) report to them or directly hire independent contractors; for example, the board (through the audit committee) typically selects the auditor.\n\nHelpful skills of top management vary by the type of organization but typically include a broad understanding of competition, world economies, and politics. In addition, the CEO is responsible for implementing and determining (within the board's framework) the broad policies of the organization. Executive management accomplishes the day-to-day details, including: instructions for preparation of department budgets, procedures, schedules; appointment of middle level executives such as department managers; coordination of departments; media and governmental relations; and shareholder communication.\n\nConsist of general managers, branch managers and department managers. They are accountable to the top management for their department's function. They devote more time to organizational and directional functions. Their roles can be emphasized as executing organizational plans in conformance with the company's policies and the objectives of the top management, they define and discuss information and policies from top management to lower management, and most importantly they inspire and provide guidance to lower level managers towards better performance.\n\nMiddle management is the midway management of a categorized organization, being secondary to the senior management but above the deepest levels of operational members. An operational manager may be well-thought-out by middle management, or may be categorized as non-management operate, liable to the policy of the specific organization. Efficiency of the middle level is vital in any organization, since they bridge the gap between top level and bottom level staffs.\n\nTheir functions include:\n\nLower managers include supervisors, section leaders, forepersons and team leaders. They focus on controlling and directing regular employees. They are usually responsible for assigning employees' tasks, guiding and supervising employees on day-to-day activities, ensuring the quality and quantity of production and/or service, making recommendations and suggestions to employees on their work, and channeling employee concerns that they cannot resolve to mid-level managers or other administrators. First-level or \"front line\" managers also act as role models for their employees. In some types of work, front line managers may also do some of the same tasks that employees do, at least some of the time. For example, in some restaurants, the front line managers will also serve customers during a very busy period of the day.\n\nFront-line managers typically provide:\n\nSome front-line managers may also provide career planning for employees who aim to rise within the organization.\n\nColleges and universities around the world offer bachelor's degrees, graduate degrees, diplomas and certificates in management, generally within their colleges of business, business schools or faculty of management but also in other related departments. In the 2010s, there has been an increase in online management education and training in the form of electronic educational technology ( also called e-learning). Online education has increased the accessibility of management training to people who do not live near a college or university, or who cannot afford to travel to a city where such training is available.\n\nWhile some professions require academic credentials in order to work in the profession (e.g., law, medicine, engineering, which require, respectively the Bachelor of Law, Doctor of Medicine and Bachelor of Engineering degrees), management and administration positions do not necessarily require the completion of academic degrees. Some well-known senior executives in the US who did not complete a degree include Steve Jobs, Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg. However, many managers and executives have completed some type of business or management training, such as a Bachelor of Commerce or a Master of Business Administration degree. Some major organizations, including companies, not-for-profit organizations and governments, require applicants to managerial or executive positions to hold at minimum Bachelor's degree in a field related to administration or management, or in the case of business jobs, a Bachelor of Commerce or a similar degree.\n\nAt the undergraduate level, the most common business program is the Bachelor of Commerce (B.Com.). However to manage technological areas, you need an undergraduate degree in a STEM area as preferred to Defense Acquisition University guidelines. This is typically a four-year program that includes courses that give students an overview of the role of managers in planning and directing within an organization. Course topics include accounting, financial management, statistics, marketing, strategy, and other related areas. There are many other undergraduate degrees that include the study of management, such as Bachelor of Arts degrees with a major in business administration or management and Bachelor of Public Administration (B.P.A), a degree designed for individuals aiming to work as bureaucrats in the government jobs. Many colleges and universities also offer certificates and diplomas in business administration or management, which typically require one to two years of full-time study.\n\nAt the graduate level students aiming at careers as managers or executives may choose to specialize in major subareas of management or business administration such as entrepreneurship, human resources, international business, organizational behavior, organizational theory, strategic management, accounting, corporate finance, entertainment, global management, healthcare management, investment management, sustainability and real estate. A Master of Business Administration (MBA) is the most popular professional degree at the master's level and can be obtained from many universities in the United States. MBA programs provide further education in management and leadership for graduate students. Other master's degrees in business and management include Master of Management (MM) and the Master of Science (M.Sc.) in business administration or management, which is typically taken by students aiming to become researchers or professors. There are also specialized master's degrees in administration for individuals aiming at careers outside of business, such as the Master of Public Administration (MPA) degree (also offered as a Master of Arts in Public Administration in some universities), for students aiming to become managers or executives in the public service and the Master of Health Administration, for students aiming to become managers or executives in the health care and hospital sector.\n\nManagement doctorates are the most advanced terminal degrees in the field of business and management. Most individuals obtaining management doctorates take the programs to obtain the training in research methods, statistical analysis and writing academic papers that they will need to seek careers as researchers, senior consultants and/or professors in business administration or management. There are three main types of management doctorates: the Doctor of Management (D.M.), the Doctor of Business Administration (D.B.A.), and the Ph.D. in Business Administration or Management. In the 2010s, doctorates in business administration and management are available with many specializations.\n\nWhile management trends can change so fast, the long term trend in management has been defined by a market embracing diversity and a rising service industry. Managers are currently being trained to encourage greater equality for minorities and women in the workplace, by offering increased flexibility in working hours, better retraining, and innovative (and usually industry-specific) performance markers. Managers destined for the service sector are being trained to use unique measurement techniques, better worker support and more charismatic leadership styles. Human resources finds itself increasingly working with management in a training capacity to help collect management data on the success (or failure) of management actions with employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20635304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20635304", "title": "Managerial hubris", "text": "Managerial hubris\n\nManagerial hubris is the unrealistic belief held by managers in bidding firms that they can manage the assets of a target firm more efficiently than the target firm's current management. Managerial hubris is one reason a manager may choose to invest in a merger that on average generates no profits.\n\n"}
{"id": "29312752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29312752", "title": "Markus Fugger", "text": "Markus Fugger\n\nMarkus Fugger (Marx Fugger) \"von der Lilie\" (14 February 1529 – 18 June 1597) was a German politician and businessman of the Fugger family. He was the eldest son of Anton Fugger. He achieved several high offices - chamberlain to Archduke Ernest of Austria, Kammerpräsident, member of the kurbayrische (Bavarian) council, Pfleger (reeve) in the Landshut, and city-pfleger in Augsburg.\n\nOn his father's death in 1560, he and his brothers Hans and Jakob jointly managed their father's business. When they split up the business in 1575, Markus took its northern division. With other family members, he took over part of the Fuggerhäuser in Augsburg. Similarly, on his father's death, as eldest son Markus led the newly founded Marx Fugger and Brothers Firm (Firma Marx Fugger und Gebrüder) for 30 years. He was interested in church history, acted as a patron to artists and collected books and antiquities, taking on Nikolaus Juvenel as a portrait painter in Augsburg. He organised sumptuous parties with hour-long firework displays. In 1595 he suffered a stroke, from which he never recovered, and so the business passed to his brother Hans.\n\nIn 1557, he married Gräfin (countess) Sibylla von Eberstein (1531–1589), allying the Fugger family with a number of noble families in south-west Germany - the Margraves of Baden-Sponheim, the Counts of Hanau-Lichtenberg and the Counts of Eberstein. The marriage produced 13 children (8 girls and 5 boys), though the male-line descent from Markus died out in 1671.\n\n"}
{"id": "51190319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51190319", "title": "Mohamed Hassan Bensalah", "text": "Mohamed Hassan Bensalah\n\nBorn in 1970 in Morocco, Mohamed Hassan BENSALAH is the chairman and the CEO of the moroccan group HOLMARCOM.\n\nAfter a baccalaureate type B in the French school, Mohamed Hassan BENSALAH went to France for higher studies where he obtained a Master in management and finance at Sorbonne university and l’Ecole des Cadres de Paris.\n\nMohamed Hassan BENSALAH succeeded in 1993 to his late father and founder of Holmarcom GROUP as a chairman and CEO..\nHe is also :\n\n\nHe was decorated as Knight of the Order of the Throne of Morocco (Wissam Al Arch) by His Majesty King Mohammed VI, in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "19101624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19101624", "title": "Nicolas Perrin", "text": "Nicolas Perrin\n\nNicolas Perrin (born 1959) is CEO of SBB Cargo since January 2008.\n\nPerrin studied at ETH Zurich, Dept. II for Construction Engineering, where he gained a diploma. He is married and lives in Schaffhausen, Switzerland.\n\nPerrin has been working at SBB-CFF-FFS since 1987. In the early 1990s, he worked as personal assistant to the President of the Executive Board before spending five years as Vice President of Service Planning for the Rail 2000 project. From 1999, Perrin served as acting deputy to the CEO of SBB Cargo. He began as Head of Production for the division, before moving on to manage SBB Cargo’s International business area.\n\nIn summer 2007, Perrin became interim CEO of SBB Cargo following the departure of Daniel Nordmann. In December 2007, the SBB AG Board of Directors appointed him as the new CEO of SBB Cargo and member of the Management Board of SBB AG. His activities focus primarily on the sustainable and targeted redevelopment of SBB Cargo.\n"}
{"id": "68037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68037", "title": "Non-Manufacturing ISM Report on Business", "text": "Non-Manufacturing ISM Report on Business\n\nThe Non-Manufacturing ISM Report on Business is a purchasing survey of the United States service economy, published by the Institute for Supply Management since June 1998. Its results are a popular economic indicator and forecaster. The survey is currently written by Anthony Nieves, C.P.M., CFPM, the Senior Vice President of Supply Management for Hilton Hotels Corporation.\n\nIts primary index is the Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index.\n\nThe other indices are\n\nBusiness Activity, New Orders, Imports, and Employment indices are seasonally adjusted. All data points from this survey are made available at US Macro » Non-Manufacturing ISM Report on Business (link outdated, 404)\n\nThe report is based on data compiled from monthly replies to questions asked of more than 370 purchasing and supply executives in over 62 different industries representing nine divisions from the Standard Industrial Classification categories.\n"}
{"id": "48207797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48207797", "title": "Oleg Andreyevich Gusev", "text": "Oleg Andreyevich Gusev\n\nOleg Andreyevich Gusev is a Russian entrepreneur and politician from Urals. He is currently the head of \"Ural Financial Holding\" enterprise, based in Ekaterinburg, and involved in massive land development projects and other large businesses. Formerly he also was a member of regional government ranking up to vice prime minister.\n\nNowadays he is also known as arts collector: he possesses paintings of Picasso, Chagall, Kandinsky, Salvador Dali, Matisse, Warhol and others.\n\nBorn in Chelyabinsk on April 3, 1964.\n\nGraduated from Ural State Technical University in 1986 as electrical engineer. In 1997 got a second degree in finances at Ural State University of Economics.\n\nWorked at Kalinin Machine-Building Plant until early 1990s.\n\nIn 1993-1998 was participating in creation of, and furtherly headed, the major Zoloto Platina Bank.\n\nIn the course of the career, for various periods of time, Gusev also held multiple major positions in a number of financial institutions of Urals and Moscow. Particularly, he owned a Chelyabinsk-based bank called Monetny Dom (\"coin house\"), which he sold by 2010. \n\nFrom early 2000s he began to work for Ural Financial Holding, a major investment enterprise involved in land development, construction, heavy industries, agriculture, researches.\n\nThe Ural Financial Holding is supporting Ekaterinburg Opera Theatre and Demidov Science Fund.\n\nIn late 2000s he also worked at Government of Sverdlovsk Oblast as high-ranking official at several positions up to vice prime minister. While at that position, he was appointed by governor Eduard Rossel to supervise Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit held in Ekaterinburg in 2009. \n\nFor a period of time, he was a head of the Oblast's major subdivision: .\n\nIn 2003 Gusev was a candidate for mayoral elections in Ekaterinburg, resulting with 3rd place.\n\nHe holds several state awards. \n\nIn 1997 he founded personal charity fund \"Good for the people\".\n\nNowadays he is also known as an arts collector: he possesses paintings of Picasso, Chagall, Kandinsky, Salvador Dali, Matisse, Warhol and others. Sometimes he organizes exhibits of the paintings for public display in Urals.\n\nThe Ural Financial Holding is supporting Ekaterinburg Opera Theatre and Demidov Science Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "23782775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23782775", "title": "Omar Saif Ghobash", "text": "Omar Saif Ghobash\n\nOmar Saif Ghobash (; born 1971) is an Emirati diplomat and author. He was appointed Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates to France on November 24, 2017, having previously served as UAE Ambassador to Russia from 2009-2017. Ghobash authored the book, \"Letters to a Young Muslim\" (January 2017), which was written as a series of letters to his eldest son about what it means to be Muslim in the 21st century.\n\nBetween the years 1986—1989, Ghobash was educated at Rugby School, a boarding independent school for boys in the market town of Rugby in Warwickshire, followed between 1989—1992 at Balliol College at the University of Oxford, where he gained a B.A. in Law. Between 2003—2007, he studied BSc. in Pure and Applied Mathematics, in an external programme at the University of London.\n\nGhobash sponsors the Saif Ghobash Banipal Prize for Arabic Literary Translation, in memory of his father, Saif Ghobash, the UAE's first Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, who was assassinated at Abu Dhabi International Airport in 1977. Likewise, he is a founding trustee of the International Prize for Arabic Fiction which runs with the support of the Booker Prize Foundation in London. He founded one of the region’s first contemporary art galleries, The Third Line, which is based in Dubai as well as The Arab Fund for Arts and Culture which supports and identifies the production, research, and distribution channels of contemporary Arab art and culture.\n\nGhobash is on the advisory body of The International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Political Violence at King's College London and the Emirates Diplomatic Academy in Abu Dhabi.\n\nPrior to his appointment as Ambassador, the UAE did not have a diplomatic mission in Moscow for many years. More recently, however, the UAE has invested roughly $6 billion USD in Russia's infrastructure. Ghobash believes Russia's participation in fighting extremism is integral to creating stability in the region. A delegation from Abu Dhabi led by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan, has bolstered its presence at The Kremlin in 2015 to coproduce solutions to counter terrorism and conflicts in the Middle East.\n\nHe is considered by many to be a thought leader on moderate Islam and the future of the Arab world, often calling for change through technological innovation and education in Arab countries. Regarding extremism in young Muslims, he said, “The key challenge for us is to stop treating our youth with distance, because there are recruiters out there making sure to grab those youth from us.” \n\nAfter receiving funding from the government of Abu Dhabi, Ghobash was involved in 2008 in discussions with John Sexton on the opening of a campus of New York University in Abu Dhabi in 2010.\n\nGhobash is an avid hiker, once spending five years climbing the mountains of Nepal and Switzerland. He speaks Arabic, English, Russian, French, Italian and Spanish.\n"}
{"id": "14113565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14113565", "title": "Omega Development Site", "text": "Omega Development Site\n\nOmega, comprising 226 hectares straddling the M62 Motorway in Warrington, Cheshire is a property development site. The site comprises a large part of the former RAF/USAF Burtonwood airbase. A new junction on the M62 (junction 8) was built in anticipation of the development.\n\nThe whole site will provide 650,000 sq m of offices, manufacturing and distribution space along with ancillary leisure/retail facilities, hotel and conference facilities. Around 24,000 jobs are likely to be created over the lifetime of the scheme to make one of Europe's largest business parks.\n\nOwing to the economic downturn, planning conditions were relaxed in 2011 to allow phased development.\n\nIn July 2012 it was announced that the long-awaited £1bn development of Warrington’s Omega business park was to begin with a 200,000 sq ft warehouse and a £7 million contract for new roads at Omega North, opening up the site for further development. By 2015 Omega North was complete with distribution warehouses for Brake Bros, Hermes Group, and Travis Perkins. Omega South had The Hut Group and the largest Walmart development outside the USA with an Asda distribution warehouse, and plans for retail, leisure, and phased housing developments.\nA new railway station on the Liverpool-Warrington-Manchester line has been proposed which will link with a bus service to the Omega site.\n"}
{"id": "23840898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23840898", "title": "Paylocity Corporation", "text": "Paylocity Corporation\n\nPaylocity is a provider of cloud-based payroll and human capital management software solutions for medium-sized organizations.\n\nThe company was founded as Ameripay Payroll Ltd. by Steve Sarowitz in 1997. It was renamed Paylocity in December 2005. As the company grew, it relocated from Franklin Park, Illinois to Elk Grove Village, and to its current location in Arlington Heights. The company has leased 309,000 square feet of office space in the current headquarters of Zurich Insurance North America in Schaumburg, Illinois. The move will be complete in 2019.\n\nIt was one of the 5,000 fastest growing private companies according to \"Inc.\" Magazine in 2003, 2004, and from 2007 to 2014. The company was also included in the Deloitte Fast 500 as one of the fastest growing technology companies in 2013, 2014, and 2015.\n\nPaylocity successfully executed an initial public offering (IPO) in March 2014, raising over $82 million.\n"}
{"id": "2390582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2390582", "title": "Peer production", "text": "Peer production\n\nPeer production (also known as mass collaboration) is a way of producing goods and services that relies on self-organizing communities of individuals. In such communities, the labor of a large number of people is coordinated towards a shared outcome.\n\nPeer production is a process taking advantage of new collaborative possibilities afforded by the internet and has become a widespread mode of labor. Free and open source software and open source hardware are two examples of peer production. One of the earliest instances of networked peer production is Project Gutenberg, a project in which volunteers make out-of-copyright works available online. Examples include Wikipedia, an online encyclopedia, and Linux, a computer operating system. For-profit enterprises mostly use partial implementations of peer production, and would include such sites as Flickr, Etsy, Digg, and Delicious. Peer production can also be utilized by sharing open source hardware designs to be replicated with digital manufacturing technologies such as RepRap 3-D printers. The number of such designs is growing exponentially on free design sites such as Youmagine. Peer production refers to the production process on which the previous examples are based. Commons-based peer production is a subset of peer production.\n\nPeer production occurs in a socio-technical system which allows thousands of individuals to effectively cooperate to create a non-exclusive given outcome. These collective efforts are informal. Peer production is a collaborative effort with no limit to the amount of discussion or changes that can be made to the product. However, as in the case of Wikipedia, a large amount, in fact the majority, of this collaborative effort is maintained by very few devoted and active individuals.\n\nCrowdsourcing products such as community cookbooks are a form of peer production. Gooseberry Patch has used its customer/friend community to create its line of exclusive cookbooks for over 18 years.\n\nFor example, there are now several types of open-source solar-powered 3-D printers, which can be used for production in off grid locations and other forms of open source appropriate technology like the use of biomaterials.\n\nPeer production has also been utilized in producing collaborative Open Educational Resources (OERs). Writing Commons, an international open textbook spearheaded by Joe Moxley at the University of South Florida, has evolved from a print textbook into a crowd-sourced resource for college writers around the world. Massive open online course (MOOC) platforms have also generated interest in building online eBooks. The Cultivating Change Community (CCMOOC) at the University of Minnesota is one such project founded entirely on a grassroots model to generate content. In 10 weeks, 150 authors contributed more than 50 chapters to the CCMOOC eBook and companion site. The Peer to Peer University has applied peer production principles to online open learning communities and peer learning.\n\nSeveral critics have challenged the prevailing optimism with which peer production is viewed.\n\nDaniel Kreiss, Megan Finn, and Fred Turner criticize the consensus perspective on peer production as utopian. Asserting that this new mode of production challenges the traditional form of bureaucracy, they reference Max Weber’s analysis of modern bureaucracy and urge that this analysis be applied to peer production. They argue that bureaucracy is better equipped to handle social problems than peer production, which they consider unsustainable. As bureaucracy promotes a rationally organized, rule-oriented functioning of society, Kreiss, Finn, and Turner claim that peer production undermines this aspect due to its tendency to encourage individual behavior based on private morality. This tendency, they argue, degrades autonomy by “collapsing public and private boundaries,” allowing people’s professional lives to extend into their private domains.\n\nOther critics claim that the participatory nature of peer production is apt to generate misinformation and products of inferior quality. In his book The Cult of the Amateur, Andrew Keen assesses peer-produced content on the Internet and asserts that it exists as a “smokescreen” which emptily promises more truth and deeper knowledge, but actually leading to the disappearance of truth. According to Keen, the Internet advocates peer production to a questionable degree by permitting anyone to post information freely. This form of peer production, he cautions, leaves room for people to plagiarize ideas and distort original thoughts, which he says ultimately creates an uncertainty in the validity of information.\n\nAnother critic, Jaron Lanier, cites Wikipedia as an example of how dependence on mass collaboration may result in unreliable or biased information. He warns that websites like Wikipedia promote the notion of the “collective” as all knowing, and that this concentrated influence stands in direct contrast to representative democracy.\n\nIn addition to these adversarial views, some critics assert that peer production does not perform as well in some contexts as it does in others. Paul Duguid suggests that peer production works less efficiently outside of software development, stating that continued reliance on peer production in various domains of information production will necessitate a search for new ways to guarantee quality. Yochai Benkler similarly proposes that peer production may produce functional works like encyclopedias more proficiently than creative works. Despite the valuable potential of peer production, several critics continue to doubt extensive collaboration and its ability to yield high quality outputs.\n\n"}
{"id": "13086747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13086747", "title": "Plastic resin pellet pollution", "text": "Plastic resin pellet pollution\n\nPlastic resin pellet pollution is a type of marine debris originating from plastic particles utilized in manufacturing large-scale plastics. These pre-production plastic pellets are created separately from the user plastics they are melted down to form, and pellet loss is incurred during both the manufacturing and transport stages. Commonly referred to as nurdles, these plastics are released into the open environment, creating pollution in the oceans and on beaches.\n\nPlastic resin pellets are classified as primary source microplastics, meaning that they were intentionally produced at the size ranging from 1–5 mm in diameter. Approximately 60 billion pounds (27 million tonnes) of nurdles are manufactured annually in the United States. One pound of pelletized HDPE contains approximately 25,000 nurdles (approximately 20 mg per nurdle). They are typically under in diameter.\n\nNurdles are a major contributor to marine debris. During a three-month study of Orange County beaches researchers found them to be the most common beach contaminant. Nurdles comprised roughly 98% of the beach debris collected in a 2001 Orange County study. Waterborne nurdles may either be a raw material of plastic production, or from larger chunks of plastics. A major concentration of plastic may be the Great Pacific garbage patch, a growing collection of marine debris known for its high concentrations of plastic litter.\n\nNurdles that escape from the plastic production process into waterways or oceans have become a significant source of ocean and beach plastic pollution. Plastic pellet pollution that has been monitored in studies is mainly found in the sediments and beach areas and is usually polyethylene or polypropylene, the two main plastic polymers found in microplastic pollution. Marine life is severely threatened by these small pieces of plastic; the creatures that make up the base of the marine food chain, such as krill, are prematurely dying by choking on nurdles. \n\nNurdles have frequently been found in the digestive tracts of various marine creatures, causing physiological damage by leaching plasticizers such as phthalates. Nurdles can carry two types of micropollutants in the marine environment: native plastic additives and hydrophobic pollutants absorbed from seawater. For example, concentrations of PCBs and DDE on nurdles collected from Japanese coastal waters were found to be up to 1 million times higher than the levels detected in surrounding seawater.\n\nPlastic microbeads used in cosmetic exfoliating products are also found in water.\n\n2018\n\nUSA - Pennsylvania - Semi-truck crash leading to release of nurdles into Pocono Creek, with a picture of the nurdles in Spring Run (The Morning Call, 9 April 2018).\n\n2017\n\nSouth Africa - Durban - Nurdle spill leading to extended cleanup efforts. An overview of the response can be found here (http://www.coastkzn.co.za/nurdles)\n\nUK - \"The Great Nurdle Hunt\" occurring from June 2-5th, 2017 - across the United Kingdom drew attention to the issue of plastic pellet pollution. A program started by Fidra, a Scottish environmental charity, sourced information on nurdles from citizens across the region using shared photos to better understand the makeup of pollution across beaches in the UK. The nurdle hunts occurring earlier in 2017 determined that 73% of UK beaches had nurdle pollution.\n\n2012\n\nUSA - San Francisco Bay Coastal Cleanup from multiple nurdle spills (https://baynature.org/article/tiny-plastics-have-become-big-problem-in-coastal-cleanup/)\n\nIn Hong Kong, after being blown by Typhoon Vicente on 24 July 2012, some containers belonging to Chinese oil giant Sinopec which were carrying over 150 tonnes of plastic pellets were blown into the sea, washing up on southern Hong Kong coasts, such as Shek O, Cheung Chau, Ma Wan and Lamma Island. The spill disrupted marine life and is being credited with killing stocks of fish on fish farms.\n\nThe plastic industry has responded to the increased interest and concern for plastic pellet loss and pollution sources. Operation Clean Sweep was created by SPI: The Plastics Industry Trade Association in 2001 and joined by the American Chemistry Council with the goal of zero pellet loss for plastic manufacturers. This voluntary stewardship program provides its members with a manual which guides them through ways in which they can reduce pellet loss within their own facilities and provides the necessary training.\n\nOn April 11, 2013 in order to create awareness, artist Maria Cristina Finucci founded The Garbage Patch State at UNESCO –Paris in front of Director General Irina Bokova. First of a series of events under the patronage of UNESCO and of Italian Ministry of the Environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34868212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34868212", "title": "Richard Rivalee", "text": "Richard Rivalee\n\nRichard Rivalee, is a Malaysian fashion designer based in Penang, Malaysia.\n\nHe was born in 1966 from mixed Thai and Chinese parentage. He was brought up by his father in Penang, Malaysia after his parents’ divorce and due to family financial condition, he dropped out of school at very young age. He started his career as a hair stylist with a strong passion in fashion design. After years of savings, he enrolled for fashion design classes and apprenticed with Mdm.P’ng Guay Keow of Galeen Fashion Institute. With his talent, passion and creativity, Richard quickly gained recognitions in the industry via winning several state and national level fashion design awards such as Penang Young Designer High Fashion Award 1993/94 and MODA Theater Clothes of High Fashion 1997/98.\n\nRichard is best known for his design in High Fashion under the label of Richard Rivalee Couture House. Recent notable collections include well-known evening gown series which featured in his \"Richard Rivalee's Black Collection 2011\". The uniqueness of his collections is that each masterpiece that sold to its clients will never repeat again. His womenswear collections cover western style and Malay style evening gowns and bridal gowns. His menswear collections cover modern classic clothing, suits and tuxedos.\n\nRichard's designs and collections have reached internationally with clienteles from Asia, Europe and United States of America with patronage from royal families, celebrities and the rich & famous. His collections are often featured in renowned fashion and life style magazines in Malaysia and international such as Essenze (Malaysia), Backstage Professional (Malaysia), Fiori (Indonesia), AXM (UK) and many more. His collections are no stranger to fashion weeks, charity fashion events, ballroom galas and international beauty pageants. Among the projects, he has worked with international celebrities such as Petrina Fung Bo Bo, Amber Chia, Ning Baizura and Soong Ai Ling. His collections also featured in international renowned brands events such as Poh Kong Jeweller, Cartier, Swarovski and Jaeger-LeCoultre.\n\nIn early 2012, the label was acquired by a group of private investors for an undisclosed amount. Richard Rivalee is named the Chief Designer of the Company. On 19 May 2012, the Label celebrated its 22nd Anniversary in conjunction with the launch of its new label design. The event was held at the main premise located at the UNESCO World Heritage Site - Georgetown, Penang, Malaysia. According to its internal source, the company direction is to rebrand the label to international level while maintaining its uniqueness. In May 2012, Richard Rivalee was featured on Hong Kong TVBE channel via the introduction by Petrina Fung Bo Bo as her personal fashion designer.\n\nRichard also make appearance as guest judge on various model contests, talent shows and beauty pageants.\n\nMajor Events/Sponsorships by Richard Rivalee Couture House:\n\n"}
{"id": "2676919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2676919", "title": "Roel Pieper", "text": "Roel Pieper\n\nRoland \"Roel\" Pieper (born 1956) is a Dutch IT-entrepreneur.\n\nPieper was born (April 13, 1956) in Vlaardingen, son of an engineer at a car manufacturer. His father died when Pieper was 20, and on his 18th birthday he suffered a motoring accident which destroyed his sporting career as a player of the Juventus Schiedam basketball team. According to Pieper, both of these experiences instilled him with a certain toughness. Pieper obtained his MSc - Ir - degree from the Delft University of Technology, 1980, in computer science.\n\nAfter graduation, he worked for ten years for Software AG (both in Germany and in the United States), where he became Chief Technology Officer for the US branch. After leaving Software AG he was selected to be the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for Unix System Laboratories in the United States, a division of Bell Laboratories of AT&T. In 1993, after the resignation of co-founder Ralph Ungermann, Roel became the president and CEO of Ungermann-Bass. Ungermann was tied to Tandem by an earlier White Knight deal and Ungermann resigned after his required term. Roel renamed the company UB Networks while it was a subsidiary of Tandem Computers. Roel restructured UB Networks research investments into ATM technology, which was popular at the time, instead of continuing Ralph Ungermann's earlier successful investments and leadership in Ethernet technology. Ungermann-Bass developed the first Virtual Network Architecture (VNA) in 1993. The ATM business was subsequently sold by Roel to Cisco. UB Networks itself was sold to Newbridge Networks successfully in 1996 after Pieper joined Tandem Computers as CEO. In 1996 Pieper became president and CEO of Tandem Computers where he was instrumental in repositioning the company. Under Pieper's leadership Tandem was sold to Compaq in 1997, and Pieper became a member of the executive board of Compaq. During his time in the US, Pieper gained a reputation as a successful restructurer. Under Pieper's leadership, USL, UB and Tandem Computer were successfully restructured and sold to strategic players in the industry.\n\nPieper returned to the Netherlands in 1998. For one year he was board member of the Dutch electronics giant Philips by invitation of Cor Boonstra, then Philips' president. This involvement ended abruptly in May 1999 when Pieper got involved in the claimed coding technology of Jan Sloot, a connection Pieper made on behalf of Philips. Philips officially decided not to use the technology. Pieper then decided to support the invention as a private investor and later also as board member, though Sloot's claimed huge compression is mathematically impossible. The inventor died of a heart attack shortly after he demonstrated his technology to a group of 20 investors and technology companies in the summer of 1999. After one year, Pieper ended his employment at Philips with a severance package of undisclosed value.\n\nIn 1998, together with ex-minister of economy Hans Wijers, Pieper set up Twinning, an incubator for starting entrepreneurs, particularly in the IT and especially the Internet sector. The project received ninety Million Guilders of government subsidy, and as the Dot-com bubble burst, the ministry decided to sell Twinning to a group of private investors. Of the fifty companies that Twinning started, more than 35 are still operating and some very successfully.\n\nPieper also independently took part in more than 30 IT businesses all as investor and or adviser. On 1 September 1999 Pieper was appointed as a professor of Electronic Commerce, a newly created chair at the faculty of informatics and technology management of the University of Twente. Pieper ended as a professor of business administration and corporate governance at the university of Twente in 2013.\n\nAt the end of 1999, Pieper founded Insight Capital Partners Europe, a private investment fund for IT-businesses, later operating under the name of Favonius Ventures, particularly in the field of e-commerce. In November 2000 he became Chairman of the Board of Lernout & Hauspie, a Flemish company specializing in speech recognition technology. Pieper was instrumental in uncovering a financial scandal at this company, which took place in the period 1996-1999, before he joined the company. In cooperation with the Belgian authorities, Pieper helped to secure information that ultimately led to the formal charging of the founders Jo Lernout and Pol Hauspie. Pieper left as Chairman of the board after the shareholders decided to appoint a new CEO and board.\n\nIn 2001, Pieper entered into the board of advisors of Nearshore IT services company, Levi9 Global Sourcing and conducted a study requested by minister Tineke Netelenbos for setting up a system for road pricing, called \"Mobimiles\". Later that year he became president of Connekt, an organisation for addressing road tolling issues in the Netherlands. He presided as Chairman for seven years.\n\nIn 2003, Pieper started a new venture involving Very Light Jets (VLJ), in cooperation with Albuquerque, New Mexico-based Eclipse Aviation Corporation.\n\nPieper, together with a Russian businessman Daniel Bolotin, started the joint venture investment business creating a Netherlands-based company called European Technology and Investment Research Center, or ETIRC BV.\n\nThe main project of ETIRC was ETIRC Aviation, which sought to establish an Air Taxi network for Europe, Turkey and Russia and a second manufacturing location for the Eclipse 500 jet in Russia for the European market. In July 2008, the Luxembourg-based ETIRC Aviation, which by then had become Eclipse Aviation's largest shareholder, ousted Eclipse Aviation founder Vern Raburn from his position as CEO. Pieper then took over the job of acting CEO for Eclipse Corporation at the request of the shareholders and bondholders.\n\nIn the autumn of 2008, after Pieper had decided to raise the price of the Eclipse 500 aircraft substantially, several Eclipse customers sued Eclipse for the return of their deposits, claiming they had waited years for the delivery of their Eclipse 500 jets. After the collapse of the financial markets in autumn of 2008, the company Eclipse needed to be restructured and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, with the stated plan that a new company, headed by Pieper, would buy the assets of Eclipse and continue manufacturing. Pieper attempted to secure the necessary funds for this acquisition, but was unsuccessful largely due to the economic downturn, which led to several potential investors bowing out at the last moment. Eclipse Aviation ran out of money in mid-February 2009, ceased operations, and laid off its remaining 850 employees. On February 25, a group of creditors petitioned the Delaware bankruptcy court to convert Eclipse's bankruptcy to Chapter 7 liquidation. Soon thereafter, the board of directors (including Pieper) acknowledged the company had no other options but to file for Chapter 7, effectively ending the company's 10-year run, during which it spent an estimated $2 billion in investments and loans. Various reports following the Chapter 7 filing of the company insinuated financial problems for Pieper including an email from Pieper himself \n\nOn 7 April 2009, following the Chapter 7 filing of Eclipse Aviation, ETIRC BV in the Netherlands also declared bankruptcy. The Dutch newspaper \"de Volkskrant\" reported that Pieper had invested US$146 million in Eclipse through ETIRC. Roel Pieper has two lawsuits pending on the demise of ETIRC BV. The first case led by a group of consultants who claim to not have been paid for six months was lost. including a delay and review of a case by a legal firm that specialises in take-overs and bankruptcy claims, and Al Mann, who had Roel Pieper sign a 10 million collateral before he would invest 20 million in Eclipse. Al Mann and Roel Pieper have subsequently settled out of court Although in a court case of 2016 there were still outstanding issues with Mann .\n\nThis investment was done with non-collateral US$150 million credit of Russian \"Sviaz-bank\". The Russian newspaper \"Vedomosti\" reported that this credit became later an object of an investigation in Russia, of which Pieper was not a part.\n\nAt the same time he was fighting to save Eclipse, Pieper was investing tens of millions of dollars in a Russian technology to extract diesel fuel from coal. The Coal to Liquid project is on hold and will restart when oil prices have reached prices again above 100 dollars per barrel.\n\nAny venture capital investor is expected to have some of its investments fail, and Pieper has been able to keep a good set of results between failures and successes. Various successful companies include Veritas Software, Netwise, Quokka Sports, Google, TiVo, Netscape, General Instrument, Lost Boys, and various others. Some failures include a magazine, \"Opinio\", much older projects such as a web site, Tradingcars.com, and the telecommunications company Stonehenge. Efforts to start MyGuide, a company specializing in GPS navigation units and meant to compete with TomTom, also failed. Roel Pieper has been held accountable by the receivership of MyGuide for the lack of an administration, a coherent strategy and inferior products. There is currently a claim of 2 million Euros pending, which Pieper claims to be erroneous. At the trial it was noted that he maintained bad bookkeeping but due to the nature of the laws was unable to be held personally accountable. As a result, all cases around MyGuide have been closed.\n\nAs of 2015 Roel Pieper had a court case pending regarding outstanding legal fees from Goodwin Procter which as of 2016 has been ruled in favour of goodwin procer. . In 2016 the Goodwin Proctor lawsuit was settled out of court in a mutual agreement between all parties. \n\nIn 2009 Pieper was appointed CEO of UK-based production technology firm, Pursuit Dynamics. He subsequently left the firm on 15 December 2011 as a result of a conflict with some shareholders who forced a rights issue which was announced after the company failed to meet revenue targets. Pieper resigned after the board of directors decided to support the rights issue strategy demanded by one group of shareholders. The company subsequently was unable to return to its full potential as the rights issue created a period of high volatility and uncertainty. The company in fact never survived that decision and was unable to attract any substantial new business. The company sold its assets and was effectively liquidated.\n\nSince 2002 the Pieper family has invested in a number of high tech ventures. The investments are not limited to a geography or to a specific sector. In a number of these ventures the strategic direction of the investments becomes evident. New energy, engines, propulsion and a number of unique IT technologies such as the Antenna Company which was founded and funded together with Marcel Boekhoorn who is a long term business partner and friend of the family. Since the failure of Eclipse Aviation due to the financial crisis in 2009, most of Pieper's activities have been related to the RiRo Ventures main investments. A new website describing these activities has been created recently named after the successor company BJMD Ventures. Both RiRO Ventures and BJMD Ventures are part of a family fund structure created to support investments globally.\n\nIn May 2003, Pieper was target of an attack by a confused deranged man who broke into his house in Aerdenhout, and stabbed his wife who made a full recovery. Pieper publicly blamed the Dutch police as the attacker was caught trespassing on the property, including with video proof, on previous occasions. The Dutch police refused to act until the attack almost killed Pieper's wife. The man who stabbed Pieper's wife was convicted and sentenced to compulsory psychiatric treatment in a closed judicial institute (Terbeschikkingstelling in the Dutch language). He then was granted a temporary leave in 2007. The man has since been reinstated into supervised custody.\nPieper emigrated to Monaco in March 2008. The stated reason being that he was not informed, or was informed far too late, by the police or Ministry of Justice of this temporary leave of the attacker, although the government officials had promised to do so in writing.\n\nIn the summer of 2007, Pieper became one of the major stakeholders of the Amsterdam Basketball Club and was also working with the city of Amsterdam on a new youth project for integration and education focuses on sports. After Pieper emigrated in March 2008, Pieper no longer was involved with Amsterdam Basketball which closed its doors in April 2011 after it was unable to attract new sponsors to remain in the first league of basketball in the Netherlands. The club BC Apollo has since been revived to become the largest basketball club in the Netherlands with plans to return to the first (ere-) division of basketball after winning the championship in the second division. In the years after, the BC Apollo has returned successfully to first premier league of basketball in the Netherlands. \n\nIn the summer of 2008, Pieper was helmsman on the Favonius yacht (Swan 82) and he successfully claimed the Swan World Cup in Porto Cervo, Italy. Together with his longtime associate and navigator Roy Heiner, Pieper finally won this event after various attempts. The hobby of sailing and regattas were given to Pieper by his father who taught him sailing and racing at a very young age. Pieper's father bought a small yacht called Favonius in 1974 and as a remembrance Pieper always tried to use that name as part of his memories of his father. In 2013 Pieper has assisted in creating the K3 Foundation in Portland, Oregon, USA. The target of the foundation is to restore and maintain the globally well known sailing yacht Kialoa III. The yacht has successfully returned to the racing scene in 2015. \n\nIn the years after 2014, Pieper has been active in Ukraine in a number of investment projects. One of the projects is related to establishing the bio ethanol market based on the huge supply of corn in the Ukraine. In addition, several high tech agricultural projects have been started to determine if a cooperation between the Netherlands and Ukraine could be established successfully. One of the projects Agri Cooperative Europe has been created in 2017.\n\nPieper had three sons in his first marriage, three sons in his second marriage and currently lives with his third family in Kiev, Ukraine. His 7th son Roland Pieper Jr, was born in August 2017, in Kiev.\n\n"}
{"id": "28181277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28181277", "title": "Taichiro Morinaga", "text": "Taichiro Morinaga\n\nTaichiro Morinaga (1865–1937) was a Japanese philanthropist and entrepreneur. In 1918, he founded Morinaga & Co, the first modern candy company in Japan, and the first to produce chocolates in the country.\n\nNow known for the popular fruit candy Hi-Chew, one of Morinaga & Co's first products was marshmallow.[1][2]\n\nMorinaga (1865–1937) was born on Japan's southern island of Kyushu. He had no formal education. His father died when he was 7. Later he became a potter's apprentice and went to Tokyo in his teens to sell pottery. He became a branch manager for a wholesaler in nearby Yokohama but his branch lost money after extending too much credit to customers because of leniency. Since employees were personally responsible for such losses, Morinaga searched for a way to repay his boss.\n\nWith no local prospects found to repay the loss, Morinaga, at age 23, moved to the United States where he opened a hardware store in San Francisco. However, the venture was unsuccessful due to local boycotting due to his race. During the visit, he converted to Christianity.\n\nDuring his time in the United States, an unidentified American gave him a piece of candy which was a new appetizing treat for Morinaga. Having led an impoverished life in Japan, Morinaga had never tasted such a delicious treat. At the time, candy in Japan was expensive and consisted of either boiled beans or bee honey, which was based on sweets originally brought by Chinese and Portuguese traders centuries earlier or even more expensive candy imported from Europe. Morinaga returned to Japan but came to the United States for a second time. He was unable to obtain candy apprentice jobs in the United States because of his race. Instead, he worked as a janitor in a candy factory to gain experience. After interviewing a number of Japanese people in the United States, Moringa discovered that marshmallows were popular but unavailable in Japan. This second visit to study candy manufacture lasted ten years.\n\nIn 1899, he left the United States and initially sold candy from a push cart. Later that year, he opened a candy shop in Tokyo (Minato City), the Morinaga Western Confectionery Shop (later Morinaga Confectionery), with Hanzaburo Matsuzaki, a business partner and fellow Christian.\n\nMorinaga later founded Morinaga & Co, the first modern candy company in Japan and the first to produce chocolates in the country when it started in 1918, one year after opening a company dairy. Morinaga is considered one of Japan's greatest industrialists who was not part of a zaibatsu. Early difficulties of the company included the fact that Japan had little commercial milk production, obliging the company to open its own dairy. Another difficulty was that Japan had little arable land for crops and no locally produced corn or sugar cane to make corn syrup.\n\nCurrently, Morinaga & Co. is one of Japan's biggest candy makers, with 2008 sales of $1.5 billion and over 5,000 employees. The company also operates restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias and golf courses in Japan. The affiliated company, Morinaga Milk Industry, sells powdered milk and other dairy products worldwide, as well as health food snacks. In 2008, Morinaga America, Inc. was opened in the United States.\n\nOne of his early products were marshmallows, which he called \"angel food\" because of their color and the association with Christianity, his own religion. He developed a type of caramel, called Hi-Chew, became one of his flagship products and resistant to turning into goo in hot Japanese weather, unlike caramel formulations that he had seen in the United States. His formulation was less buttery and appealed better to the Japanese taste.\n\nAfter the Great Kantō earthquake, Morinaga led the rescue efforts and also distributed sweets to people displaced by the disaster.\nIn 1944, Morinaga's company, with the Army Medical School of Japan, was the first to produce penicillin, an antibiotic drug, in Japan.\n"}
{"id": "57923616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57923616", "title": "Washington v. United States", "text": "Washington v. United States\n\nWashington v. United States, 584 U.S. ___ (2018), was a United States Supreme Court case regarding Native American fishing rights in the U.S. state of Washington. In the case, the court deadlocked 4-4, with Justice Anthony Kennedy recusing himself due to his prior involvement in the case as a judge on the United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The deadlock left standing a lower court ruling that the State of Washington must redesign and rebuild road culverts to allow salmon to swim upstream, to uphold Native American treaty rights to fish. The issue decided by the federal courts was whether, under the 1855–1856 Stevens Treaties, \"the right to fish is the right to put a net in the water or the right for there to be fish to catch\"; however, with the 4-4 Supreme Court decision, it may not be binding on future court decisions.\n\nThe case was argued on April 18, 2018.\n\nThe cost of stream restoration demanded by the court decision was estimated to be $3.7 billion, making culvert replacement of the top megaprojects in the Seattle area.\n\nThe decision was \"per curiam\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39006339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39006339", "title": "William Thomas Appleton", "text": "William Thomas Appleton\n\nWilliam Thomas Appleton (1859-1930), was an Australian businessman, shipping agent and public servant. He was born on 2 May 1859 in Leeds, Yorkshire, England. His father, Thomas Appleton was a bookbinder, and his mother was Mary (née Burnley).\n\nIn late 1859 the Appleton family visited a maternal uncle (William Burnley) who ran an import-export agency in the Port Phillip District, after which William Appleton returned to England and completed his education at Wharfdale College, Yorkshire. He then returned with his parents to Victoria in 1869 settling in Geelong, where he attended the Melbourne Church of England Grammar School in 1872-73.\n\nHe worked with his brother (Colonel) George Burnley Appleton (1850-1945) at his Geelong woolbroking firm. Later he was chairman of Huddart Parker & Co. Pty Ltd. Appleton joined this firm in Geelong c. 1884 becoming Manager in 1887, then moving to the Melbourne office. He joined the Board of Management in 1894 becoming Managing Director in 1898 and Chairman of the Company in 1910-30.\n\nWhilst on the Harbour Trust, Appleton supported long-term plans for new dock construction. Appleton Dock on the north side of the Yarra River was named after him. During World War I Appleton held a number of temporary official posts. He died of cancer at his home in Malvern on 16 February 1930 leaving an estate of £131,323.\n\n"}
{"id": "42254434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42254434", "title": "Wong Yip Yan", "text": "Wong Yip Yan\n\nWong Yip Yan, also known as Y.Y. Wong, is a Singaporean Chinese businessman, and founder of the Wywy Group of Companies. According to Businessweek, the Wywy Group controlled 76 companies and had annual sales of over $900 million.\n\nWhen Wong was 26, he became the first Singaporean director at Borneo Company Limited, a British trading company. Wong said his boss told him that a Chinese couldn't get promoted to the company's main board of directors, causing Wong to start his own business.\n\nTo start the Wywy Group, Wong got funding from executives of Fujifilm, who had worked with Wong at Borneo. They helped him get a credit line of $178,000 from The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, which allowed him to start the Wywy Group as a distributor of copy machines.\n\nWong also served as the Chairman of Yeo Hiap Seng, Singapore's largest drink manufacturer.\n\nWong is married and has three grown children. Wong's oldest son, Dr. Wong Meng Ee, contracted retinitis pigmentosa when he was 11 years old. The condition resulted in permanent blindness. Dr. Wong Meng Ee is currently the president of the Retinitis Pigmentosa Society Singapore.\n\nWong is the brother of Wong Yip Chong and uncle of Wong Meng Cheong. Meng Cheong is a prominent Singaporean physician who famously took his father's mistress to court over his $7 million house after his passing. He ultimately lost his case against his father's mistress.\n\nWong is an alumnus of the Harvard Business School.\n"}
{"id": "251412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251412", "title": "Workers' compensation", "text": "Workers' compensation\n\nWorkers' compensation is a form of insurance providing wage replacement and medical benefits to employees injured in the course of employment in exchange for mandatory relinquishment of the employee's right to sue their employer for the tort of negligence. The trade-off between assured, limited coverage and lack of recourse outside the worker compensation system is known as \"the compensation bargain\". One of the problems that the compensation bargain solved is the problem of employers becoming insolvent as a result of high damage awards. The system of collective liability was created to prevent that, and thus to ensure security of compensation to the workers. Individual immunity is the necessary corollary to collective liability.\n\nWhile plans differ among jurisdictions, provision can be made for weekly payments in place of wages (functioning in this case as a form of disability insurance), compensation for economic loss (past and future), reimbursement or payment of medical and like expenses (functioning in this case as a form of health insurance), and benefits payable to the dependents of workers killed during employment.\n\nGeneral damage for pain and suffering, and punitive damages for employer negligence, are generally not available in workers' compensation plans, and negligence is generally not an issue in the case. These laws were first enacted in Europe and Oceania, with the United States following shortly thereafter.\n\nLaws regarding workers compensation vary by country, but the Workers’ Accident Insurance system put into place by Otto von Bismarck in 1881 is often cited as a model for Europe and later the United States.\n\nWorkers' compensation statutes are intended to eliminate the need for litigation and the limitations of common law remedies by having employees give up the potential for pain- and suffering-related awards, in exchange for not being required to prove tort (legal fault) on the part of their employer. The laws provide employees with monetary awards to cover loss of wages directly related to the accident as well as to compensate for permanent physical impairments and medical expenses.\n\nThe laws also provide benefits for dependents of those workers who are killed in work-related accidents or illnesses. Some laws also protect employers and fellow workers by limiting the amount an injured employee can recover from an employer and by eliminating the liability of co-workers in most accidents. US state statutes establish this framework for most employment. US federal statutes are limited to federal employees or to workers employed in some significant aspect of interstate commerce.\n\nThe exclusive remedy provision states that workers compensation is the sole remedy available to injured workers, thus preventing employees from also making tort liability claims against their employers.\n\nIn common law nations, the system was motivated by an \"unholy trinity\" of tort defenses available to employers, including contributory negligence, assumption of risk, and the fellow servant rule.\n\nCommon law imposes obligations on employers to provide a safe workplace, provide safe tools, give warnings of dangers, provide adequate co-worker assistance (fit, trained, suitable \"fellow servants\") so that the worker is not overburdened, and promulgate and enforce safe work rules.\n\nClaims under the common law for worker injury are limited by three defenses afforded employers:\n\n\nAs Australia experienced a relatively influential labour movement in the late 19th and early 20th century, statutory compensation was implemented very early in Australia. Each territory has its own legislation and its own governing body.\n\nA typical example is Work Safe Victoria, which manages Victoria's workplace safety system. Its responsibilities include helping employees avoid workplace injuries occurring, enforcement of Victoria's occupational and safety laws, provision of reasonably priced workplace injury insurance for employers, assisting injured workers back into the workforce, and managing the workers' compensation scheme by ensuring the prompt delivery of appropriate services and adopting prudent financial practices.\n\nCompensation law in New South Wales has recently (2013) been overhauled by the state government. In a push to speed up the process of claims and to reduce the amount of claims, a threshold of 11% WPI (whole person impairment) was implemented.\n\nWorkers' compensation regulators for each of the states and territories are as follows:\n\nEvery employer must comply with the state, territory or commonwealth legislation, as listed below, which applies to them:\n\nThe National Social Insurance Institute (in Portuguese, Instituto Nacional do Seguro Social – INSS) provides insurance for those who contribute. It is a public institution that aims to recognize and grant rights to its policyholders. The amount transferred by the INSS is used to replace the income of the worker taxpayer, when he or she loses the ability to work, due to sickness, disability, age, death, involuntary unemployment, or even pregnancy and imprisonment. During the first 15 days the worker's salary is paid by the employer and after that by the INSS, as long as the inability to work lasts. Although the worker's income is guaranteed by the INSS, the employer is still responsible for any loss of working capacity, temporary or permanent, when found negligent or when its economic activity involves risk of accidents or developing labour related diseases.\n\nWorkers' compensation was Canada's first social program to be introduced as it was favoured by both workers' groups and employers hoping to avoid lawsuits. The system arose after an inquiry by Ontario Chief Justice William Meredith who outlined a system in which workers were to be compensated for workplace injuries, but must give up their right to sue their employers. It was introduced in the various provinces at different dates. Ontario was first in 1915, Manitoba in 1916, and British Columbia in 1917. It remains a provincial responsibility and thus the rules vary from province to province. In some provinces, such as Ontario's Workplace Safety and Insurance Board, the program also has a preventative role ensuring workplace safety. In British Columbia, the occupational health and safety mandate (including the powers to make regulation, inspect and assess administrative penalties) is legislatively assigned to the Workers' Compensation Board of British Columbia WorkSafeBC. In most provinces the workers' compensation board or commission remains concerned solely with insurance. The workers' compensation insurance system in every province is funded by employers based on their payroll, industry sector and history of injuries (or lack thereof) in their workplace (usually referred to as \"experience rating\").\n\nThe German worker's compensation law of 6 July 1884, initiated by Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, was passed only after three attempts and was the first of its kind in the world. Similar laws passed in Austria in 1887, Norway in 1894, and Finland in 1895.\n\nThe law paid indemnity to all private wage earners and apprentices, including those who work in the agricultural and horticultural sectors and marine industries, family helpers and students with work-related injuries, for up to 13 weeks. Workers who are totally disabled get continued benefits at 67 percent after 13 weeks, paid by the accident funds, financed entirely by employers.\n\nThe German compensation system has been taken as a model for many nations.\n\n\"Main article\" : The Workmen's Compensation Act 1923\n\nThe Indian worker's compensation law 1923 was introduced on 5 March 1923. It includes Employer's liability compensation, amount of compensation. Workmen Compensation Insurance covers employees under Workmen Compensation Act, Fatal Accident Act and common law.\n\nWorkers' accident compensation insurance is paired with unemployment insurance and referred to collectively as labour insurance. Workers' accident compensation insurance is managed by the Labor Standards Office.\n\nThe Workmen's Compensation Act 1952 is modelled on the United Kingdom's Workmen's Compensation Act 1906. Adopted before Malaysia's independence from the UK, it is now used only by non-Malaysian workers, since citizens are covered by the national social security scheme.\n\nThe Mexican Constitution of 1917 defined the obligation of employers to pay for illnesses or accidents related to the workplace. It also defined social security as the institution to administer the right of workers, but only until 1943 was the Mexican Social Security Institute created (IMSS). Since then, IMSS manages the Work Risks Insurance in a vertically integrated fashion: registration of workers and firms, collection, classification of risks and events, and medical and rehabilitation services. A reform in 1997 defined that contributions are related to the experience of each employer. Public sector workers are covered by social security agencies with corporate and operative structures similar to those of IMSS.\n\nIn New Zealand, all companies that employ staff and in some cases others, must pay a levy to the Accident Compensation Corporation, a Crown entity, which administers New Zealand's universal no-fault accidental injury scheme. The scheme provides financial compensation and support to citizens, residents, and temporary visitors who have suffered personal injuries.\n\nGreat Britain followed the German model. Joseph Chamberlain, leader of the Liberal Unionist party and coalition with the Conservatives, designed a plan that was enacted under the Salisbury government in 1897. the Workmen's Compensation Act 1897 was a key domestic achievement. It served its social purpose at no cost to the government, since compensation was paid for by insurance which employers were required to take out. The system operated from 1897 to 1946. It was expanded to include industrial diseases by the Workmen's Compensation Act 1906 and replaced by a state compensation scheme under the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act 1946. Since 1976, this state scheme has been set out in the UK's Social Security Acts.\n\nWork related safety issues in the UK are supervised by the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) who provide the framework by which employers and employees are able to comply with statutory rules and regulations.\n\nWith the exception of the following, all employers are obliged to purchase compulsory Employer's Liability Insurance in accordance with the Employer's Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969. The current minimum limit of indemnity required is £5,000,000 per occurrence. Market practice is to usually provide a minimum £10,000,000 with inner limits to £5,000,000 for certain risks, e.g. workers on oil rigs and acts of terrorism.\n\nThese employers do not require Employer's Liability Insurance:\n\n\"Employees\" are defined as anyone who has entered into or works under a contract of service or apprenticeship with an employer. The contract may be for manual labour, clerical work or otherwise, it may be written or verbal and it may be for full-time or part-time work.\n\nThese persons are not classed as employees and, therefore, are exempt:\n\nEmployees need to establish that their employer has a legal liability to pay compensation. This will principally be a breach of a statutory duty or under the tort of negligence. In the event that the employer is insolvent or no longer in existence, compensation can be sought directly from the insurer under the terms of the Third Parties (Rights against Insurers) Act 2010.\n\nFor the history of worker's compensation in the UK, see Workmen's Compensation Act 1897 and following acts.\n\nIn the United States, some form of workers compensation is typically compulsory in most states (depending upon the features of the organization), with the notable exception of Texas as of 2018. Regardless of compulsory requirements, businesses may purchase insurance voluntarily, and in the United States policies typically include Part One for compulsory coverage and Part Two for non-compulsory coverage. By 1949, every state had enacted a workers' compensation program.\n\nIn most states, workers compensation claims are handled by administrative law judges, who often act as triers of fact.\n\nWorkers compensation statutes which emerged in the early 1900s were struck down as unconstitutional until 1911 when Wisconsin passed a law was not struck down; by 1920, 42 states had passed workers compensation laws.\n\n"}
{"id": "58783405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58783405", "title": "Yanto Tonoto", "text": "Yanto Tonoto\n\nYanto Tanoto (Chinese name: Chen Jianghai, 15 April 1955 - 26 September 1997) was a Singaporean businessman. He was born in Medan, Indonesia. He served as the CEO of Singapore's Golden Eagle Group as well as the CEO of Asia Pacific Resources International Holdings. In 1997, he was killed in the crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 152. He is the younger brother of Indonesia's richest person, Sukanto Tanoto.\n"}
