{"id": "39609924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39609924", "title": "1958 California Proposition 18", "text": "1958 California Proposition 18\n\nCalifornia Proposition 18 was on the November 4, 1958 California ballot measure as an initiated constitutional amendment. This measure is more commonly referred as the \"right to work\" law and would have added a new provision, Section 1-A to Article 1 of the State Constitution. The amendment would “prohibit employers and employee organizations from entering into collective bargaining or other agreements which establish membership in a labor organization, or payment of dues or charges of any kind, as a condition of employment or continued employment.” That is, making union membership voluntary, rather than compulsory, for employment.\n\nThe proposition would also declare certain practices unlawful such as those practices relating to membership in labor organizations. It also provides for injunction and damage suits against any individuals or group found to violate or attempt to violate the amendment. Proposition 18 also provides the definition for a “labor organization”. The proposition did not pass.\n\nUnions started to gain ground following the passage of several governmental acts such as the Railway Labor Act of 1926, Wagner Act of 1935, and the Taft Hartley Act of 1957. The newly empowered unions would be able to engage in union shop activities due to the nature of these acts. With negotiating power now firmly in the hands of union officials and employers a growing concern about the power of employment and safety of workers' rights loomed. There was a shift from craft-unions to industrial-unions, ultimately changing the population of union members from approximately 3,000,000 in 1935 to 15,000,000 in 1945. Labor unions had more power than they ever did before. In response to these major changes, Congress passed the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947. The Taft-Hartley Act of 1947, still in effect today, forbids certain practices by unions, including forcing workers to join a union, and allowed states to elect to pass right-to-work laws.\n\nThe creation of the McClellan Committee, which was a select committee in charge of investigating the extent of corruption in labor-management relations, would expose many corrupt bosses and labor unions. This national issue would be decided on the state level.\n\nProponents of the constitutional amendment argued that all workers should have the right to elect whether or not they join a labor organization. Supporters of the proposition believed that voluntary unionism would provide a safeguard against the exploitation that could arise from monopoly control of employment.\n\nThose who supported the measure reasoned that it would grant workers the freedom of choice that was guaranteed in the U.S Constitution to all American citizens. This amendment would consequently protect workers from the unfair practices and corruption of employers and union officers.\n\nSupporters also claimed that passing the right-to-work law in California would help rid of disloyal union leaders.\n\nSupporters include:\n\nOpponents argued that, the so-called “right to work” measure would jeopardize California's economy and pit employers and employees against one another during a time when there is a fluctuating national economy and international tension. The resulting tension between employers and employees would destroy industrial relations\n\nThe measure was deemed immoral and ran contrary to the U.S democratic system. The U.S government is based on the principle of majority rule and according to the Taft Hartley Act states that union open shop can only exist where there is majority rule because the majority of employees has chosen a single union as their bargaining agent. According to opponents of the measure union open shop is therefore “the American, democratic way” as well.\n\nOpponents of Proposition 18 quote statistics from the U.S Department of Commerce that reveal California's per capita income is 60 percent larger than those states who passed such “right to work” measures. Therefore, passage of the proposition would lower income and profits of all professional persons.\n\nOpposition includes:\n\nOpponents of Prop. 18 recorded spending $1,250,000 against the measure, according to the Secretary of State's office. Their receipts totaled $1,523,653, while spending $1,241,196. Supporters of Prop. 18 recorded their receipts to total $507,053 and spending $390,419. Prop. 18 opposition outspent the supporters three to one. It was reported that General Electric was the biggest supporter of the proposition residing outside of California, with the majority being spend on advertising. The largest out-of-state check written for the opposition was by the National Council for Industrial Peace in Washington.\n\nCalifornia Proposition 18 was defeated in the general elections of 1958 on November 4. It was defeated by the efforts of unions and civil rights groups who fought to maintain the status quo, maintaining union strength. The labor issue created a rift in the Republican Party caused by the rivalry of Governor Goodwin J. Knight and Senator William F. Knowland would create a shift in the political tide in favor of the Democrats. The liberal Democrats would remain firm and united in opposing the proposition, which would pay off with Edmund G. Brown winning the governorship of California and political control of California being held firmly in the hands of the Democratic party.\n"}
{"id": "43956112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43956112", "title": "2005 Warsaw Convention", "text": "2005 Warsaw Convention\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, also known as the Warsaw Convention or CETS 198, is a Council of Europe convention which aims to facilitate international co-operation and mutual assistance in investigating crime and tracking down, seizing and confiscating the proceeds thereof. \n\nThis Convention is the first international treaty covering both the prevention and the control of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. This instrument recognises that quick access to financial information or information on assets held by criminal organisations, including terrorist groups, is the key to successful preventive and repressive measures, and, ultimately, is the best way to stop them.\n\nCETS 198 builds on and updates the 1990 Strasbourg Convention; it takes into account the fact that terrorism can be financed not only through money laundering from criminal activity, but also through legitimate activities. The Convention also includes a mechanism to ensure the proper implementation by Parties of its provisions.\n\nThe Convention was opened for signature in Warsaw on 16 May 2005 and entered into force on 1 May 2008. It was last ratified by Turkey in May 2016, bringing the number of parties to 28. It has been signed but not ratified by another 11 states plus the European Union.\n\nMoney laundering involves a series of complicated financial operations (deposit, withdrawals, bank transfers, etc.) which ultimately results in criminal money becoming \"clean\" and acceptable for legitimate business purposes. This laundered criminal money is recycled through normal businesses and thus may penetrate legitimate markets and corrupt entire economies.\n\nMisuse of the financial system is not limited to money laundering schemes designed to preserve and maximise proceeds from crimes which have been committed. The financial system is misused in similar ways to fund terrorist atrocities. After the September 11 attacks, the international community rapidly recognised the important similarities between the processes involved in money laundering and in the financing of terrorism. Traditionally, the financing of terrorism stemmed from illegal activities, e.g. bank robberies, weapons and drug trafficking, etc. However, in recent years, a new phenomenon had grown: the carrying out of legitimate activities to finance terrorist actions. In this case, the phenomenon is the opposite of money laundering: the \"clean\" money collected through charities, legitimate commercial activities and so on, can be used to finance terrorist actions. The above considerations led to the Council of Europe’s decision to update the 1990 Strasbourg Convention.\n\nOne of the major purposes of the 1990 Strasbourg Convention was to facilitate international cooperation in the area of money laundering, which could only be accomplished if steps were taken to minimise the significant differences of approach which then existed in the domestic legal systems of member States. CETS 198 has left the general structure of the 1990 Convention untouched.\n\nAt the time of its elaboration, the Select Committee of Experts which drafted the 1990 Convention was not in a position to draw upon a settled and developed body of domestic law and practice. International cooperation in this sphere was relatively unknown. Indeed, save for the limited scope provided by the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, the area was a new one for the vast majority of members of the international community.\n\nIn the period of over ten years which had elapsed since the text of the 1990 Convention was adopted, valuable experience had been gained. The mutual evaluation procedures of the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF), which updated its Recommendations in 1996 and 2003, and added 8 Special Recommendations in 2001 and one more in 2004, and the similar work undertaken by the MONEYVAL, had provided valuable insights into the problems which had arisen both in the domestic implementation of anti-money laundering measures, and in international cooperation. The remits of these two evaluative bodies had also been extended to cover assessment of the effectiveness of measures taken in jurisdictions to counter terrorist financing.\n\nFurther debate on this issue had been stimulated by developments in other fora. On 26 June 2001, the European Union had adopted the Framework Decision on money laundering, the identification, tracing, freezing, seizing and confiscation of instrumentalities and the proceeds from crime. This includes, inter alia, significant movement towards a harmonised implementation of certain critical provisions of the 1990 Convention concerning action at the domestic level as well as embodying agreement on practices designed to enhance the effectiveness of international cooperation. The European Union Council Directive of June 1991 on prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering was also substantially amended in December 2001. At the time, the Commission had presented a proposal for a Third Money Laundering Directive and a Regulation on control of cash entering or leaving the Community; these proposals were being discussed in the European Parliament and the Council of the EU and the Third EU AML Directive was adopted in 2005.\n\nOther important initiatives that have taken place in recent years include the development and expansion of the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units, the adoption of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, Convention against Corruption and Terrorist Financing Convention as well as the emergence of international pressure through the imposition of counter-measures on \"non-cooperative countries and territories\", which were not in conformity with international standards.\n\nDiscussion within the Council of Europe started as early as 1998 on the advisability of drafting an updating Protocol to the 1990 Convention and on the scope of such an exercise should it be undertaken. Given differences of view among member States, a questionnaire-based enquiry was conducted on the subject in 2000. It emerged from this enquiry that a clear majority of States were in support of an early opening of negotiations on a protocol. The Reflection Group on the advisability of drawing up an additional protocol to the Convention on laundering, search, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds from crime (PC-S-ML) submitted its report to the CDPC at its 51st plenary session on 17-21 June 2002 and made specific suggestions as to the possible content of such a treaty.\n\nThe European Committee on crime problems (CDPC) entrusted at the end of 2003, the Committee of experts on the revision of the Convention on laundering, search, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds from crime (PC-RM) to draw up such a protocol.\n\nThese terms of reference were revised in March 2004 and read as follows:\nThe PC-RM developed a text which both added to and modified provisions of the 1990 Convention. Owing to the extent of the modifications envisaged and the enlargement of the scope of the treaty to include issues concerning the financing of terrorism, the drafters felt that this text should be a self-standing Convention, rather than a Protocol to 1990 Convention. The CDPC approved this Convention on 11 March 2005 and transmitted it to the Committee of Ministers for adoption. The Committee of Ministers adopted this Convention on 3 May 2005.\n\nAt the time of drafting, there was no single dedicated international treaty covering both the prevention and the control of money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The existing legally binding international instruments provided for a range of specific measures which focused on law enforcement and international cooperation (e.g. criminalisation of money laundering, confiscation, provisional measures, international cooperation), but the preventative aspects were mostly left unregulated by international law or addressed in somewhat general terms.\n\nSince the adoption of the 1990 Convention, money laundering techniques and anti-money laundering strategies had significantly evolved. For example, laundering techniques increasingly targeted the non-financial sector and used professional intermediaries to invest criminal proceeds in the legitimate economy. Many jurisdictions had set up Financial Intelligence Units to process suspicious or unusual transaction reports and thus triggered more laundering investigations. Those changes needed to be followed up by reassessing the Convention's focus, adjusting some of its requirements and supplementing it with additional provisions. In addition, some of these changes had already been included in standards set by other international fora (European Union, United Nations, FATF), which a new convention could not ignore. Rather, the text of the new Convention brought into line with these new developments to ensure mutual consistency with these standards and to make possible harmonised domestic responses in an appropriate legal format.\n\nOwing to the efficiency shown in practice of anti-money laundering techniques to combat also the financing of terrorism, the Warsaw aimed to expand the scope of its predecessor in order to be used in the fight against terrorism and its financing, while taking into account existing international instruments (e.g. the 1999 UN Terrorist Financing Convention). The events of 11 September 2001 had forced countries around the globe to take quick action to freeze terrorist funds and it appeared that many of them had serious difficulties in coping with this requirement: some were unable to rapidly trace property or bank accounts; others had to stretch the limits of legality to respond to requests or provide the evidence requested. The world had realised that quick access to financial information or information on assets held by criminal organisations, including terrorist groups, was a key to successful preventive and repressive measures and for disrupting their activities.\n\nThe main reasons for including provisions concerning the financing of terrorism in the Warsaw Convention were the following:\n\nThe remit of CETS 198 is therefore wider than that of the 1990 Convention, as it covers laundering and confiscation, but also financing of terrorism. As to the latter, the Convention first stresses the necessity for States to take immediate steps to ratify and implement fully the 1999 UN Terrorist Financing Convention, thereby recognizing its fundamental value in defining an international legal framework to cut terrorists off from their funds. The reference to the UN Convention aims at stressing the crucial importance of this treaty in the global fight against the financing of terrorism. It recognises that the 1999 UN Terrorist Financing Convention provides, for the first time, an agreed global framework within which the international community can collaborate more effectively in seeking to fight the financing of terrorism.\n\nFinally, the Warsaw Convention aimed to improve international co-operation, inter alia, by taking into account the development of new investigative techniques adopted in other international fora, as those contained in the EU Protocol of 16 October 2001 to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters.\n\nThe Warsaw Convention brings added value to the current international standards in the following areas: \n\nTo achieve all these objectives, the Warsaw Convention provides for a separate monitoring mechanism for States parties, the \"Conference of the Parties\" (COP198) which ensures that the provisions of CETS 198 are applied.\n\nIn order to lead its activities, and according to its Rules of Procedure, the Conference of the Parties elects a Bureau from among its Parties, for a period of two years, a President and Vice-President, as well as three other members, for the term of office of one year, who together constitute the Bureau. The Bureau assists the President and ensures the preparation and continuity of meetings. The Conference of the Parties may appoint scientific experts whose role is to provide neutral, experienced opinions where necessary and to assist the President and Secretariat in ensuring the consistency of the Conference's outputs. The Conference of the Parties is also assisted by a Secretariat provided by the Council of Europe.\n\nAt its first meeting, the COP agreed that it would not duplicate the assessments of MONEYVAL or the FATF, and therefore that it would only assess those parts of CETS 198 that add value to the current global standards. The assessment is undertaken by rapporteurs for legal, FIU and international co-operation issues, and is based on the replies by the assessed country to a detailed questionnaire. COP assessment reports are subject to discussion and approval by the Conference of the Parties, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. All adopted reports of the Conference of the Parties are automatically published within four weeks of adoption, together with any comments from the relevant Party.\n\nThe COP meets once a year at its plenary meeting. Its activities include and are not limited to: the discussion and adoption of assessment reports in respect of contracting Parties; progress made by States in signing/ratifying the CETS No. 198; and possible amendments to the Convention. \n\nThe COP also liaises and cooperates with other anti-money laundering bodies, including MONEYVAL and the FATF.\n\nNote: This section summarizes the articles of the Strasbourg Convention. For more information, see the full text of the Convention.\n\nUnder Article 49, CETS 198 was opened for signature by the member States of the Council of Europe, the European Community and non‑member States which had participated in its elaboration. Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval are deposited with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. The Convention entered into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date on which 6 signatories, of which at least four are member States of the Council of Europe, expressed their consent to be bound by the Convention. Following the ratifications of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Malta, Moldova, Poland and Romania, the Convention entered into force on 1 May 2008. For Signatories subsequently expressing their consent to be bound by it, the Convention enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date of the expression of its consent to be bound by the Convention.\n\nThe European Union which was associated in the drafting of the Convention, signed this instrument on 2 April 2009. There is an ongoing dialogue between the Conference of the Parties to the Convention and the European Union concerning legal issues associated with the ratification of the Convention.\n\nAs from its entry into force, Parties to CETS 198, which are at the same time Parties to the 1990 Convention shall apply the provisions of this Convention in their mutual relationships; and shall continue to apply the provisions of the 1990 Convention in their relations with other Parties to the said Convention, but not to CETS 198. \n\nThe Warsaw Convention has currently been ratified by 28 member States of the Council of Europe and signed but not ratified by another 11, plus the European Union. The current Parties are:\n\nSince its entry into force in 2008, the Convention is also open for accession by other non-member States, provided that they have been formally invited to accede by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. To date, no non-member state has signed or acceded to the Convention. Article 50, paragraph 1, of the Convention concerning the accession by non-member States reads as follows:\n\nThe procedure for the accession of a State which is not a member of the Council of Europe and which has not participated in the elaboration of the Convention may be summarised as follows.\n\nIn principle, the Committee of Ministers may take the initiative of inviting a non-member State to accede to a specific Convention. It is nevertheless customary for the non-member State to request accession in a letter addressed to the Secretary General of the Council of Europe. The letter should be signed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or a diplomatic representative acting upon instructions of his or her government.\n\nIn line with the constant practice of the Council of Europe and before formally inscribing the point on the agenda of the Committee of Ministers, the Secretariat informally ascertains the opinion among member States' delegations.\n\nRequests for accession to a Council of Europe convention are examined by a Committee of Ministers’ rapporteur group and, then, by the Committee of Ministers. Once there is agreement in principle within the Committee of Ministers to give a positive reply to a request, the Committee of Ministers instructs the Secretariat (Treaty Office) to consult, where relevant, the other non-member States which are Parties to the Convention. The non-member States are given a precise time-limit for giving their consent, usually two months.\n\nFollowing the consultation of the non-member States which are Parties to the Convention, the decision inviting the non-member State becomes definitive. In the case of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, the decision on whether or not to issue an invitation has to be unanimously agreed by those Council of Europe members which are Parties to the Convention. This decision is usually taken at the level of the Ministers’ Deputies. Then, an invitation to accede to the Convention is notified to the State concerned by the Secretariat General.\n\nIt is customary for the instrument of accession to be deposited at the seat of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, in the presence of a representative of the acceding State and of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe or his Deputy. The representative of the acceding State brings with him or her the instrument of accession and a procès-verbal of deposit is signed by both parties. Should it prove difficult for the acceding State to send a representative to Strasbourg, the instrument of accession may be sent by diplomatic courrier. Deposit of the instrument of accession is notified to the members of the Council of Europe and to the other Parties to the Convention.\n\nArticle 50, paragraph 2, of the Convention provides that it enters into force on the first day of the month following the expiration of a period of three months after the date of deposit of the instrument of accession with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe.\n\nSubject to the applicable provisions of each convention and in line with the 1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, any declarations or reservations are to be made when depositing the instrument of accession. For reasons of legal certainty and in order to ensure the uniform implementation of Council of Europe’s conventions, reservations may not be made at any later date.\n\nArticle 33 of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism provides for the designation of a central authority to be made imperatively at the time of deposit of the instrument of accession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27425625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27425625", "title": "Adam Podgórecki", "text": "Adam Podgórecki\n\nAdam Podgórecki (1925–1998) is a sociologist and one of the founders of the Research Committee on Sociology of Law. Podgórecki was also one of the founders of the first institute at Warsaw University which was devoted to the social scientific studies of law. He moved to Carlton University in Ottawa, Canada, and took up a Chair in sociology and anthropology, when the communists expelled him from his professorship for \"anti-communist academic activities\". \"He worked tirelessly and fearlessly\" to ensure the independence of the sociology of law \"against the pull of the large disciplines of sociology on the one side and law on the other\" and became one of the pioneers of the sociology of law after World War II.\n\nHe carried out a systematic programme of socio-legal research throughout his academic life, wrote and published widely in both Polish and English and developed a unique socio-legal line of inquiry which can be traced back to Leon Petrazycki’s theory of “intuitive law”. According to Adam Czarnota, Podgórecki developed his social theory “in opposition to the Marxist theory of law and the state. He stressed the importance of empirical comparative material guided by theoretical hypothesis. Crucial for him was the typology, derived from Petrazycki, of intuitive and official law”.\n\nTo honour the significant contribution made by Adam Podgórecki to the development of sociology of law and to shape the history of the Research Committee on Sociology of Law, its board decided in 2004 to establish the annual Adam Podgórecki Prize. It is awarded for outstanding achievements in socio-legal research.\n\n\n\nAdam Podgórecki Prize: http://www.isa-sociology.org/rc12_prize.htm\n"}
{"id": "3586381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3586381", "title": "Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures", "text": "Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures\n\nThe Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, also known as the SPS Agreement, is an international treaty of the World Trade Organization. It was negotiated during the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and entered into force with the establishment of the WTO at the beginning of 1995. Broadly, the sanitary and phytosanitary ('SPS') measures covered by the agreement are those aimed at the protection of human, animal or plant life or health from certain risks.\n\nUnder the SPS agreement, the WTO sets constraints on member-states' policies relating to food safety (bacterial contaminants, pesticides, inspection and labelling) as well as animal and plant health (phytosanitation) with respect to imported pests and diseases. There are 3 standards organizations who set standards that WTO members should base their SPS methodologies on. As provided for in Article 3, they are the Codex Alimentarius Commission (Codex), World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) and the Secretariat of the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC).\n\nThe SPS agreement is closely linked to the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, which was signed in the same year and has similar goals. The TBT Emerged from the Tokyo Round of WTO negotiations and was negotiated with the aim of ensuring non-discrimination in the adoption and implementation of technical regulations and standards.\n\nAs GATT's preliminary focus had been lowering tariffs, the framework that preceded the SPS Agreement was not adequately equipped to deal with the problems of non-tariff barriers (NTBs) to trade and the need for an independent agreement addressing this became critical. The SPS Agreement is an ambitious attempt to deal with NTBs arising from cross-national differences in technical standards without diminishing governments prerogative to implement measures to guard against diseases and pests.\n\n\nSome of the most important WTO 'cases' regarding the implementation of SPS measures include:\n\nIn 2003, the United States challenged a number of EU laws restricting the importation of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) in a dispute known as EC-Biotech, arguing they are \"unjustifiable\" and illegal under SPS agreement. In May 2006, the WTO's dispute resolution panel issued a complex ruling which took issue with some aspects of the EU's regulation of GMOs, but dismissed many of the claims made by the USA. A summary of the decision can be found here.\n\nAnother prominent SPS case is the hormone-treated beef case. In 1996, the United States and Canada challenged before the WTO Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) a number of EU directives prohibiting the importation and sale of meat and meat products treated with certain growth hormones. The complainants alleged that the EU directives violated, among other things, several provisions of the SPS Agreement. The EU contended that the presence of the banned hormones in food may present a risk to consumers' health and that, as a consequence, the directives were justified under several WTO provisions authorizing the adoption of trade-restrictive measures that are necessary to protect human health. In 1997 and 1998, the WTO adjudicating bodies admitted USA and Canada claims and invited the EU to bring the directives into conformity with WTO law before end of May 1999. EU did not comply and the DSB authorized the USA and Canada to take countermeasures against the EU. The countermeasures took the form of increased custom duties applied by the USA and Canada on certain EU products, including the notorious Roquefort cheese. In 2004, while the ban on hormone-treated meat was still in place, the EU initiated before the DSB new proceedings seeking the lifting of the countermeasures applied by the USA and Canada. EU alleged that it had collected new scientific data evidencing that the banned hormones may cause harm to consumers. According to the EU, the new scientific data provides sufficient ground for the ban on hormones, which may no more be sanctioned by the countermeasures imposed by the USA and Canada. As of January 2007, the proceedings initiated by the EU were still pending.\n\nWhile Article 1.5 of the TBT precludes the inclusion of SPS measures from its ambit, in EC-Biotech, the panel recognised that situations could arise where a measure is only partly an SPS measure, and in those cases, the SPS part of the measure will be considered under the SPS Agreement. If a measure conforms with SPS, under Article 2.4 of the SPS Agreement, it is assumed that the measure falls within the scope of GATT, Article XX(b).\n\nEconomic considerations. Trade in the products subject to SPS-type measures have the potential to result in significant economic gains for national economies. Favouring economic concerns over other important public health policy issues, however, is something that requires close scrutiny by governments and the international community.\n\nThe SPS Agreement reflects the precautionary principle – a principle which allows them to act on the side of caution if there is no scientific certainty about potential threats to human health and the environment. Under Article 5.7 Members who enact provisional measures are obligated to seek further information on possible risks and review the measure 'within a reasonable period of time'. The Appellate Body in Japan– Measures Affecting Agricultural Products, stated that the length of a 'reasonable period of time' is to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Under SPS rules, the burden of proof is on the complainant country to demonstrate that a measure violates Article 2.2 and Articles 5.1-5.8 before it can be regulated even though scientific evidence can never be conclusive and it is not possible to test for all health risks that could arise from importation of a certain product.\n\nImpact on Developing Countries. It is important that the views of developing countries are incorporated into the standard-setting process as the effect of exporting countries enacting SPS measures can be damaging to developing economies. This is partly due to these states not possessing the technology and resources needed to readily comply with certain SPS requirements.\n\nImpact of Consumer Pressure on adherence to the SPS Agreement. Some commentators pose that the WTO's assumption that trade liberalisation enhances consumer welfare, has resulted in the SPS Agreement being ill-equipped to deal with trade restrictions put in place by governments responding to protectionist pressure from consumers. This was most noticeable in the Beef Hormones Dispute where, although the science pointed to the relative safety of the growth hormones in question, European consumers pressured governments to ban the import of hormone-treated beef.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40213633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40213633", "title": "Alcohol licensing laws of Ireland", "text": "Alcohol licensing laws of Ireland\n\nThe alcohol licensing laws of Ireland regulate the sale and consumption of alcohol. The legislation controlling licensing regulations is the Intoxicating Liquor Act 2008, Intoxicating Liquor Act 2003, Intoxicating Liquor Act 2000, the Licensing Act 1872 and the Criminal Justice (Public Order) Act 1994. The International Agency for Research on Cancer, part of the World Health Organization, has classified alcohol as a class one carcinogenic. \n\n"}
{"id": "38374493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38374493", "title": "All-Russian Congress of Soviets", "text": "All-Russian Congress of Soviets\n\nThe All-Russian Congress of Soviets was the supreme governing body of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic from 1917 until 1936, effectively. The 1918 Constitution of the Russian SFSR mandated that Congress shall convene at least twice a year, with the duties of defining (and amending) the principles of the Soviet Constitution and ratifying peace treaties. The October Revolution ousted the provisional government, making the Congress of Soviets the sole, and supreme governing body. It is important to note that this Congress was not the same as the Congress of Soviets of the Soviet Union which governed the whole Soviet Union after its creation in 1922.\n\nFor the earlier portion of its life, the Congress was a democratic body. Over Russia there were hundreds of soviets, democratic local governing bodies in which the surrounding population could participate. The soviets elected the delegates to the Congress, and then in turn the Congress held the national authority, making the highest decisions. There were several political parties represented in the various sessions of the Congress, each of which fought for increasing their own influence in the soviets. However, as the civil war progressed, the soviets' authority was progressively reduced, with the rise to power of Stalinism effectively cementing this situation and decisively turning the Congress into a rubber-stamp parliament. The Congress was formed of representatives of city councils (1 delegate per 25,000 voters) and the congresses of the provincial (oblast) and autonomous republican councils (1 deputy for every 125,000 inhabitants).\n\nThe exclusive jurisdiction of the Congress consisted of the election of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee, adoption of the Constitution of the Russian SFSR and amendments to it, approval of amendments proposed by the central executive committee, and approval of the autonomous republics' constitutions. On the other issues, the Congress and the Central Executive Committee had the same authority. The Congress ceased to exist at the end of the constitutional reform of 1936–1937, when first on the union and then at the republican levels indirect election to Soviets were replaced by direct elections at all levels with the Supreme Soviet as the highest body.\n\nThe first \"soviets\" appeared during the 1905 Russian Revolution as councils (soviets) of workers in those cities that were captured by mass strikes (strike action). Enterprises that were participating in those strikes had delegated to those councils their delegates to coordinate joint actions. In various locations those councils carried different names such as \"Soviet of workers deputies\", \"Delegate assembly\", \"Assembly of deputies\", \"Commission of elected\", and others. By October of 1905 the \"Soviet of workers deputies\" became more common. Following the example of Soviets of workers deputies in other locations were appearing Soviets of workers, sailors, and soldiers deputies, Soviets of workers and peasants deputies, Soviet of peasants deputies.\n\nOriginally, those soviets were mass political organizations.\n\nFor socialist parties the appearance of soviets was unexpected, yet each made an effort to delegate to them their representatives. Mensheviks and SRs view those soviets as strike committees or local authorities of self-government. Bolsheviks have seen in them the authority with help of which they could install in the country their dictatorship. In 1905 Vladimir Lenin noted that in political relation the Soviet of workers deputies should be viewed as kernel (germ) of provisional revolutionary government.\n\nIn 1917 Vladimir Lenin in his April theses came up with famous slogan \"All power to the Soviets!\". Following the February Revolution, Lenin considered that in Russia existed dual power as interweaving of bourgeoisie power (Provisional Government) and power of revolutionary masses (soviets). All other Russian political parties considered soviets as temporary public organizations and dual power did not exist for them as they were preparing for elections to the All-Russian Constituent Assembly.\n\nEmbedment of Bolsheviks into the Soviets (Bolshevization of the Soviets) established the Communist-Soviet system of state power in the USSR which existed until the 1988 constitutional reform. It was a political regime that have joined in itself the dictatorship of the communist party and power of soviets (councils). Mechanism of such combination was theoretically designed by Vladimir Lenin and placed into practice by Bolshevik party. In communist-soviet system of power, the dictatorship of party (professional revolutionaries) was concealed by popular sovereignty (people's rule) of the soviets and therefore officially the political regime has been called the Soviet power.\n\nFollowing the February Revolution, on 11-16 April 1917 in Petrograd took place the All-Russian conference of Soviets of workers and soldiers deputies.\n\nAt the conference participated 480 delegates out of 139 Soviets, 13 military garrisons of the Rear, 7 of regular army, and 26 separate parts of frontlines. \n\nOn the agenda were \n\nMajority was composed of Mensheviks and SRs. The Bolshevik group introduced own resolution drafts on key issues of agenda. \n\nIn its resolution on war that was rather defensive, presented by Menshevik-SR Petrograd Soviet Executive Committee, the conference approved the declaration of the Provisional Government about the war (of 28 March) as if it abandoned aggressive goals. The Bolshevik group, on behalf of which Lev Kamenev had been speaking, took a wrong position by taking off own resolution draft and voting for the Menshevik-SR resolution after it was added with resolutions about \"control and impact\" of revolutionary democracy on the Provisional Government and its local authorities. Recognizing the need for a legislative establishment of 8 hour workday, the conference did not call the workers upon its immediate establishment by revolutionary means. On peasant and land issues, the conference adopted its resolution about support in the Constituent Assembly for gratuitous alienation from all privately owned lands and transferring them to working people, but spoke against \"arbitrary resolution of land issue at local level\", leaving, thus, the land in hands of landowners.\n\nOn 16 April 1917 the conference elected 10 delegates from oblasts and 6 from the Army and the Navy to the Petrograd Soviet Executive Committee turning it in this way in central authority of Soviets of the whole country until the First All-Russian Congress of Soviet workers and soldiers deputies. On 17 April 1917 at Bolshevik conference, the conference delegates, Vladimir Lenin made a report about war and revolution in which he outlined his April theses. The same day he repeated his report at a joint conference of Bolsheviks and Mensheviks, the conference delegates.\n\nThe First All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers 'and Soldiers' Deputies (June 16 – July 7, 1917) was convened by the National Conference of the Soviets. It was dominated by pro-government parties (Socialist-Revolutionaries, etc.) and confirmed the supremacy of the Russian Provisional Government.\n\nThere were 1090 delegates, 822 with a right to vote, representing 305 workers', soldiers' and peasant soviets, and 53 regional, provincial and district soviets. The breakdown of delegates by party was thus: 285 Socialist-Revolutionaries, 248 Mensheviks, 105 Bolsheviks, 32 Menshevik Internationalists, and others. The right to vote was given to these soviets containing at least 25,000 persons, and a voice was given to these containing from 10,000 to 25,000.\n\nFollowing the overthrow of the Provisional Government of Russia in the October Revolution, the Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies (November 7–9, 1917) ratified the revolutionary transfer of state power. 649 delegates were elected to the Congress, representing 318 local soviets; 390 were Bolsheviks, about 100 left SRs, about 60 other SRs, 72 Mensheviks, 14 United Socialist Democrat-Internationalists, 6 Menshevik Internationalists and 7 of other factions. On the first day of the Congress, the Socialist Revolutionaries split into two groups – the Left Social Revolutionaries and the Right Social Revolutionaries. Also on the first day, the Menshevik delegation and Right Socialist Revolutionary deputies walked out in protest. 505 delegates voted in favour of the transfer of power to the Soviets. The All-Russian Central Executive Committee and Council of People's Commissars was elected by the Congress, naming Lenin the Chairman, and thus making him the head of government. At the opening of the Congress, Vladimir Lenin gave a speech saying that the \"Soviet government will propose an immediate democratic peace to all the nations and an immediate armistice on all fronts\" and declared \"Long live the revolution!,\" uttering what are sometimes called the \"Land Decree\" and \"Decree on Peace.\"\n\nThe Third All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' Deputies (January 23–31, 1918) was attended by delegates from 317 Soviets of Workers', Soldiers' and Peasants' with a further 110 delegates from army, corps and divisional committees. The Bolsheviks comprised 441 of the 707 delegates. On the fourth day January 13 (26), more delegates who had been at the Third All-Russia Congress of Soviets of Peasants' Deputies arrived. By the end there were 1,587 delegates.\n\nThe Congress had a Praesidium composed of ten Bolsheviks and three Left Socialist-Revolutionaries with a further delegate from each other group (Right Socialist-Revolutionaries, Mensheviks, etc.).\n\nThe Swiss, Romanian, Swedish and Norwegian Social-Democratic parties, the British Socialist Party and the Socialist Party of America sent messages of solidarity.\n\nOccurring shortly after the Constituent Assembly had been dissolved by order of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee (VTsIK), the Congress resolved to expunge any references to the forthcoming Constituent Assembly from all new editions of decrees and laws of the Soviet Government.\nThe Congress received:\n\nThe Mensheviks, Right Socialist-Revolutionaries and the Menshevik internationalists used the Congress to indicate their opposition to the domestic and foreign policy which the Bolsheviks passed.\n\nThe \"Declaration of Rights of the Working and Exploited People\" was passed and this went on to become the basis of the Soviet Constitution. It was also agreed to establish the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic on the basis of a free union of the peoples of Russia.\n\nThe Congress also approved the Decree on Land which provided the basic provisions of the redistribution and nationalization of land.\n\nAt the Fourth Extraordinary All-Russian Congress of Soviets (March 14–16, 1918), the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk was ratified. This marked a rift between the Bolsheviks and the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, who voted against the treaty and whose ministers quit the Sovnarkom in protest.\n\nThe Fifth All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’ Peasants’, Soldiers’ and Red Army Deputies was held July 4–10, 1918. The Left SR Uprising broke out on during this Congress, with its suppression marked the end of Left SR participation in the Congress of Soviets, and a decree that \"linked citizenship to military service and obliged all healthy men aged 18–40 years to come forward\" and fight for the Red Army in the Russian Civil War was passed.\n\nAt the 5th All-Russia Congress of Soviets of July 4, 1918, the Left Socialist-Revolutionaries had 352 delegates compared to 745 Bolsheviks out of 1132 total. The Left SRs raised disagreements on the suppression of rival parties, the death penalty, and mainly, the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk.\n\nThe Sixth Extraordinary All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’, Peasants’, Cossacks’ and Red Army Deputies was held November 6–9, 1918.\n\nThe Seventh All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’, Peasants’, Cossacks’ and Red Army Deputies was held December 5–9, 1919. That year a report on the foreign policy of Soviet Russia was submitted to the Congress and Leon Trotsky read a report on Soviet military construction and fronts in the Russian Civil War.\n\nOfficially called the \"Eighth All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workers’, Peasants’, Red Army and Cossack Deputies\" was held in Moscow on December 22–29, 1920. It was at this Congress that Gleb Krzhizhanovsky presented his report on the GOELRO plan. This was the first economic plan which focused on significant electrification of Russian industry. Lenin criticised Trotsky's pamphlet, \"The Role and Tasks of the Trade Unions\" at the subsequent preliminary joint meeting of Bolshevik delegates.\n\nThe Ninth All-Russian Congress of Soviets was held in Moscow from December 23–28, 1921. It was attended by 1,991 delegates, of whom 1,630 held voting status.\n\nThe Tenth All-Russian Congress of Soviets was held in Moscow from December 23–27, 1922. It was attended by 1,727 delegates and 488 guests. At this Congress, 488 were from the Bolshevik-controlled states of the Ukraine, Belorussia and Transcaucasia and Joseph Stalin announced the union of the Russian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Belorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, and the Transcaucasian Soviet Federated Socialist Republic into the Soviet Union, endorsed by the Congress. In his speech before the Congress, Stalin said, in part, that \"let us hope, comrades, that by forming our Union Republic we shall create a reliable bulwark against international capitalism, and that the new Union State will be another decisive step towards the union of the working people of the whole world into a World Soviet Socialist Republic.\"\n\nThe Eleventh All-Russian Congress of Soviets was held in Moscow from January 19–29, 1924. It was attended by 1,637 delegates, of whom 1,143 held voting status.\n\nThe Twelfth All-Russian Congress of Soviets was held in Moscow from May 7–16, 1925. It was attended by 1,634 delegates, of whom 1,084 held voting rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "1465176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1465176", "title": "Berlin Decree", "text": "Berlin Decree\n\nThe \"Berlin Decree\" was issued in Berlin by Napoleon on November 21, 1806, following the French success against Prussia at the Battle of Jena and in response to the British Order-in-Council of 16 May 1806, by which the Royal Navy instituted a blockade of all ports from Brest to the Elbe.\n\nThe decree proclaimed that \"the British Isles are declared to be in a state of blockade\", and forbade all correspondence or commerce with Great Britain. All British subjects found in French territory or that of France's allies were to be arrested as prisoners of war, and all British goods or merchandise seized. Any vessel found contravening the decree and landing in a continental port from a British or British-colonial port was to be treated as if it were British property and therefore liable to confiscation along with all its cargo.\n\nThe goal of this so-called Continental System was to force Britain to the peace table by starving her of trade with Europe and thereby wrecking her economy. However, the Napoleonic blockade's effectiveness was difficult to enforce over so vast an area and was generally unpopular among French subjects and allies. Historian Paul Schroeder considers it to have proved an ineffective method of economic warfare.\n\nThe Continental System eventually led to economic ruin for France and its allies. Less damage was done to the economy of Britain, which had control of the Atlantic Ocean trade. Other European nations removed themselves from the Continental System, which led in part to the downfall of Napoleon. \n\nThe Milan decree for the same purpose was issued the following year.\n\n"}
{"id": "952216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=952216", "title": "Bootleg mining", "text": "Bootleg mining\n\nBootleg mining or shoemaker mining is illegal coal mining. \n\nThe term originated around the 1920s, though the practice probably predates that. Generally, a bootleg mine (sometimes called a Bootleg Pit) is a small mine dug by a handful of men. Often this took place surreptitiously on land owned by somebody else, such as a coal company. They were frequently dug by coal miners off official tunnels in order to procure additional, free coal for themselves, a practice that causes additional ramifications when fighting mine fires. Sometimes small pits are hidden under houses or outbuildings. Usually, the mine is not large enough to turn around in. The pits are known for being unsafe, and often causing collapse.\n\nThe practice has died away in the United States; an American with simple equipment cannot dig enough coal in a day to reach a living wage. Bootleg mines in China are still very common, as are the fatalities resulting from unregulated mining.\n\nShortly before the Great Depression, Pennsylvania's anthracite industry collapsed, shutting down collieries and throwing tens of thousands of miners out of work. Unemployed miners dug their own coalholes, often on company property, and began setting up bootleg breakers and trucking operations, creating an entire bootleg coal industry. According to a 1938 report commissioned by Governor George Howard Earle, there were as many as 1,965 bootleg holes, operated by over 7,000 bootleg miners, producing 2,400,000 tons of coal per year. By 1941, miners and police clashed over the dynamiting of their coalholes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1475354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1475354", "title": "Brinkley Act", "text": "Brinkley Act\n\nThe Brinkley Act is the popular name given to (originally section 325(b) of the Communications Act of 1934). This provision was enacted by the United States Congress to prohibit broadcasting studios in the U.S. from being connected by live telephone line or other means to a transmitter located in Mexico.\n\nPrior to World War II, Dr. John R. Brinkley controlled a high-power radio station, XERA, located in Ciudad Acuña, Coahuila (Acuna City), on the U.S.-Mexican border, across the Rio Grande from Del Rio, Texas. The programs on Brinkley's stations originated from studios in the US, which were connected to his transmitters via international telephone lines. Brinkley ran a popular but controversial program offering questionable medical advice to his listeners. Since Brinkley's transmitters were licensed in Mexico, which at the time had very limited regulation of broadcast content, his broadcasting licenses could not be directly threatened by the US government.\n\nDr. Brinkley's activities at his studio were thought to be a local matter, outside Congress's regulatory powers. However, the communications between the studio and his transmitters clearly involved international commerce and were therefore within Congress's power to regulate under the Commerce Clause. The operative language is as follows:\n\nThe law goes on () to state that the legal process for requesting such a permit is the same as that for requesting or renewing a license for a domestic station.\n\nAlthough the original purpose of the Brinkley Act was to shut down a broadcaster, such applications are today granted as a matter of course, and a number of US broadcasters are permitted to program Mexican stations from their US studios in communities such as San Diego, California and Brownsville, Texas, where as many as a third of the stations in each radio market are licensed in Mexico. In recent years the law has returned to prominence, as its provisions have been used to extend US ownership limits to Mexican stations leased by US broadcasters.\n\nTo prevent Radio Luxembourg from beaming a live signal from continental Europe, which had originated in the London studios of the station, to the whole of the United Kingdom, the British General Post Office which had control of British telephones, enacted similar regulations. Consequently, Radio Luxembourg, like the Mexican border-blasters, had to either use studios at the station in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, or record information in London on a transcription disc which could then be flown to Luxembourg for replay.\n"}
{"id": "35802317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35802317", "title": "Calvin's Case", "text": "Calvin's Case\n\nCalvin's Case, also known as the \"Case of the Postnati\", was a 1608 English legal decision establishing that a child born in Scotland, after the Union of the Crowns under James VI and I in 1603, was considered under the common law to be an English subject and entitled to the benefits of English law. \"Calvin's Case\" was eventually adopted by courts in the United States, and the case played an important role in shaping the American rule of birthright citizenship via \"jus soli\" (\"law of the soil\", or citizenship by virtue of birth within the territory of a sovereign state). However, the case has also been cited as providing legal justification for the restriction of legal rights to Native Americans following their widespread conquest or confinement in reservations by the colonial forces of North America. \n\nUnder the feudal system, the allegiance owed to a king by his subjects—connected as it was to the holding of interests in land—ruled out the possibility of any given individual holding land in two different kingdoms. Robert Calvin, born in Scotland around 1606, inherited estates in England, but his rights thereto were challenged on the grounds that, as a Scot, he could not legally own English land. \n\nAs it happened, the child \"Robert Calvin\" was actually named James Colville; he was the son of Robert Colville, Master of Culross, and grandson of the courtier James Colville, 1st Lord Colville of Culross. \n\nThe Court of King's Bench ruled in Calvin's favour, finding that he was not an alien and did have the right to hold land in England.\n\nAlthough not directly relevant to the case, Edward Coke used the occasion to discuss the position of \"Perpetual enemies\", specifying \"All Infidels are in Law perpetui inimici (perpetual enemies)\" (166). Having accepted that a King who conquers a Christian Kingdom is constrained by the continuance of such laws as exist until new laws are put in place, he continues, however \"if a Christian King should conquer a kingdom of an Infidel, and bring them under his subjection, there \"ipso facto\" the Laws of the Infidel are abrogated, for that they be not only against Christianity, but against the Law of God and of Nature.\" (170). Robert A. Williams, Jr. argues that Coke used this occasion to quietly provide a legal sanction for the London Virginia Company to dispense with affording Native Americans any rights as they settled in Virginia. In the Eendracht case, King Charles reconfigured the ruling for New England.\n\nThe test case went to a panel of 14 judges drawn from different courts. Two of those dissented: Sir Thomas Foster (1548–1612) and Sir Thomas Walmsley.\n\nThe decision in \"Calvin's Case\" hinged on Calvin's status as one of the \"postnati\"—subjects born into the allegiance of the Scottish king James after he had become the king of England in 1603—and on the fact that the monarch into whose allegiance he was born (the same James, in his capacity as King of Scots) was also the English king at the time of Calvin's birth—meaning that Robert Calvin, in the judgement of the court, was just as much a subject of the king of England as if he had been born in England instead of Scotland. The judges of the court cited existing statutes—including particularly a 1351 statute, \"De Natis Ultra Mare\", which granted the benefits of subject status to foreign-born children of the king's subjects—as supporting the concept that allegiance was tied to the person of the king, rather than to the kingdom itself or to its laws.\n\n\"Calvin's Case\" did not extend English subject status to the \"antenati\" (Scots born prior to 1603). They remained aliens in relation to England, on the theory that King James had not yet become the king of England at the time of their birth. Attempts had been made in the English Parliament, prior to \"Calvin's Case\", to naturalise all of James's Scottish subjects—both those born after his English accession in 1603 (the \"postnati\"), and also those born before 1603 (the \"antenati\")—but these legislative efforts had been unsuccessful. Concerns had been expressed that extending the privileges of English subjects to all Scots would cause England to be flooded by \"an influx of 'hungry Scots'\". Objections were also raised that granting naturalisation to all the Scots would have encouraged the legal philosophy, espoused by James, of absolute monarchy and the divine right of kings. Even after \"Calvin's Case\", the English Parliament could have enacted a naturalisation bill covering the \"antenati\", but it never did so.\n\n\"Calvin's Case\" contributed to the concept of the Rights of Englishmen. Some scholars believed that the case did \"not\" fit America's situation, and thus reasoned that the 18th century colonists \"could\" \"claim all the rights and protections of English citizenship.\" In fact, one scholar asserts that the legal apologists for the American Revolution claimed they had \"improved on the rights of Englishmen\" by creating additional, purely American rights.\n\nOwing to its inclusion in the standard legal treatises of the nineteenth century (compiled by Edward Coke, William Blackstone, and James Kent), \"Calvin's Case\" was well known in the early judicial history of the United States. Consideration of the case by the United States Supreme Court and by state courts transformed it into a rule regarding American citizenship and solidified the concept of \"jus soli\" as the primary determining factor controlling the acquisition of citizenship by birth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7878717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7878717", "title": "Card check", "text": "Card check\n\nCard check (also called majority sign-up) is a method for employees to organize into a labor union in which a majority of employees in a bargaining unit sign authorization forms, or \"cards\", stating they wish to be represented by the union. Since the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) became law in 1935, card check has been an alternative to the National Labor Relations Board's (NLRB) election process. Card check and election are both overseen by the National Labor Relations Board. The difference is that with card sign-up, employees sign authorization cards stating they want a union, the cards are submitted to the NLRB and if more than 50% of the employees submitted cards, the NLRB requires the employer to recognize the union. The NLRA election process is an additional step with the NLRB conducting a secret ballot election after authorization cards are submitted. In both cases the employer never sees the authorization cards or any information that would disclose how individual employees voted.\n\nThe current method for workers to form a union in a particular workplace in the United States is a sign-up then an election process. In that, a petition or an authorization card with the signatures of at least 30% of the employees requesting a union is submitted to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB), who then verifies and orders a secret ballot election. Two exceptions exist. If over 50% of the employees sign an authorization card requesting a union, the employer can voluntarily choose to waive the secret ballot election process and just recognize the union. The other exception is a last resort, which allows the NLRB to order an employer to recognize a union if over 50% have signed cards if the employer has engaged in unfair labor practices that make a fair election unlikely.\n\nUnder the proposed Employee Free Choice Act (EFCA), if the NLRB verifies that over 50% of the employees signed authorization cards, the secret ballot election is bypassed and a union is automatically formed. Introduced in the U.S. Congress in 2005 and reintroduced in 2007 and 2009, the EFCA provides that the NLRB would recognize the union's role as the official bargaining representative if a majority of employees have authorized that representation via card check, without requiring a secret ballot election. Under the EFCA, if over 30% and fewer than 50% of employees sign a petition or authorization cards, the NLRB would still order a secret ballot election for union representation.\n\nCard check is not new. Since the National Labor Relations Act was passed, it has been legal for workers to form a union when a majority of employees in a bargaining unit sign cards indicating their intent to bargain collectively with the employer. According to a recent law review article, the National Labor Relations Board in its early days \"certified on the record when there had been an agreement with the employer for card-check\". It adds that \"in the final year before the Taft-Hartley Act was passed [in 1947], 646 representation petitions were informally resolved through the card-check procedure\".\n\nIn 1969, Chief Justice Earl Warren delivered the majority opinion for the U.S. Supreme Court that upheld the use of card check. Warren stated, \"Almost from the inception of the Act, then, it was recognized that a union did not have to be certified as the winner of a Board election to invoke a bargaining obligation; it could establish majority status by other means... by showing convincing support, for instance, by a union-called strike or strike vote, or, as here, by possession of cards signed by a majority of the employees authorizing the union to represent them for collective bargaining purposes.\" \"NLRB v. Gissel Packing Co.\", (1969). The Supreme Court has consistently ruled in favor of card check, and Warren cited prior affirmations in \"NLRB v. Bradford Dyeing Assn.\", (1940); \"Franks Bros. Co. v. NLRB\", (1944); \"United Mine Workers v. Arkansas Flooring Co.\", (1956).\n\nSupporters of card check argue that it makes it easier for workers to join unions. For example, in his remarks accompanying the introduction of the Employee Free Choice Act, Rep. George Miller (D-Calif.), former chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Education and Labor, described the limitations of the system of NLRB elections:\n\nBarack Obama supports the bill. An original co-sponsor of the Employee Free Choice Act, then-Sen. Obama urged his colleagues to pass the bill during a 2007 motion to proceed:\n\nThe AFL-CIO states the following in arguing that the company-controlled secret ballots actually make the process less democratic:\n\nThose who oppose card check argue it strips workers of their right to a secret ballot. They also argue that even though gathering a majority of card signers might imply that a secret ballot would be unnecessary, signers could be coerced to sign through intimidation and pressure; the same could also be said of employers in the period between sign-up and a secret ballot. Many business organizations, including The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, oppose the implementation of card check. From its website:\n\nThe National Restaurant Association lists three points in opposition to card check on its website.\n\nRepresentative John Kline, R-Minn., in explaining his opposition to the EFCA:\n\nForbes commentator Brett Joshpe states his opposition to card check as such:\n\nAccording to a 2004 Zogby survey conducted for the Michigan-based Mackinac Center for Public Policy, when asked if they wished to keep the current voting process or replace it with one \"less private\", 78% of union members support keeping the current secret ballot system to one \"less private\".\nAs noted above, in both card check and NLRB secret elections, employers never see authorization cards or identifying information of how an employee voted, though in card check unions would see how an employee voted.\n\n"}
{"id": "21913972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21913972", "title": "Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality", "text": "Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality\n\nThe Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality serves as the principal environmental policy adviser to the US President. In addition, CEQ reports annually to the President on the state of the environment; oversees federal agency implementation of the environmental impact assessment process; and acts as a referee when agencies disagree over the adequacy of such assessments. The Council coordinates federal environmental efforts and works closely with agencies and other White House offices in the development of environmental policies and initiatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "298792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298792", "title": "Complete contract", "text": "Complete contract\n\nA complete contract is an important concept from contract theory.\n\nIf the parties to an agreement could specify their respective rights and duties for every possible future state of the world, their contract would be complete. There would be no gaps in the terms of the contract.\n\nHowever, because it would be prohibitively expensive to write a complete contract, contracts in the real world are usually incomplete. When a dispute arises and the case falls into a gap in the contract, either the parties must engage in bargaining or the courts must step in and fill in the gap. The idea of a complete contract is closely related to the notion of default rules, e.g. legal rules that will fill the gap in a contract in the absence of an agreed upon provision.\n\nIn economics, the field of contract theory can be subdivided into the theory of complete contracts and the theory of incomplete contracts. Complete contracting theory is also called agency theory (or principal-agent theory) and closely related to (Bayesian) mechanism design and implementation theory. The two most important classes of models in complete contracting theory are adverse selection and moral hazard models. In this part of contract theory, every conceivable contractual arrangement between the contractual parties is allowed, provided it is feasible given the relevant technological and information constraints. In the presence of asymmetric information, the optimization problems can be handled due to the revelation principle. A leading textbook exposition of complete contract theory is Laffont and Martimort (2002).\n\nIn contrast, incomplete contracting models consider situations in which only a restricted class of contracts is allowed, e.g. only simple ownership structures can be contractually specified in the Grossman-Hart-Moore theory of the firm.\n\n"}
{"id": "5752181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5752181", "title": "Contract management", "text": "Contract management\n\nContract management or contract administration is the management of contracts made with customers, vendors, partners, or employees. The personnel involved in contract administration required to negotiate, support and manage effective contracts are often expensive to train and retain. Contract management includes negotiating the terms and conditions in contracts and ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions, as well as documenting and agreeing on any changes or amendments that may arise during its implementation or execution. It can be summarized as the process of systematically and efficiently managing contract creation, execution, and analysis for the purpose of maximizing financial and operational performance and minimizing risk.\n\nCommon commercial contracts include employment letters, sales invoices, purchase orders, and utility contracts. Complex contracts are often necessary for construction projects, goods or services that are highly regulated, goods or services with detailed technical specifications, intellectual property (IP) agreements, outsourcing and international trade. Most larger contracts require the effective use of contract management software to aid administration among multiple parties.\n\nA study has found that for \"42% of enterprises...the top driver for improvements in the management of contracts is the pressure to better assess and mitigate risks\" and additionally,\"nearly 65% of enterprises report that contract lifecycle management (CLM) has improved exposure to financial and legal risk.\"\n\nA contract is a written or oral legally-binding agreement between the parties identified in the agreement to fulfill the terms and conditions outlined in the agreement. A prerequisite requirement for the enforcement of a contract, amongst other things, is the condition that the parties to the contract accept the terms of the claimed contract. Historically, this was most commonly achieved through signature or performance, but in many jurisdictions - especially with the advance of electronic commerce - the forms of acceptance have expanded to include various forms of electronic signature.\n\nContracts can be of many types, e.g. sales contracts (including leases), purchasing contracts, partnership agreements, trade agreements, and intellectual property agreements.\n\n\nThe business-standard contract management model, as employed by many organizations in the United States, typically exercises purview over the following business disciplines: \n\nThere may be occasions where what is agreed in a contract needs to be changed later on. A number of bases may be used to support a subsequent change, so that the whole contract remains enforceable under the new arrangement.\n\nA change may be based on: \n\nContract management can be divided into three phases namely\n\n\nDuring the post-award phase, it is important to ensure that contract conditions and terms are met, but it is also critical to take a closer look for items such as unrecorded liabilities, under-reported revenue or overpayments. If these items are overlooked, margin may be negatively impacted. A contract compliance audit will often commence with an opportunity review to identify the highest risk areas. Having a dedicated contract compliance (and/or governance) program in place has been shown to result in a typical recovery of 2-4% and sometimes as high as 20%.\n\nCurrent thinking about contract management in complex relationships is shifting from a compliance “management” to a “governance” perspective, with the focus on creating a governance structure in which the parties have a vested interest in managing what are often highly complex contractual arrangements in a more collaborative, aligned, flexible, and credible way.\nIn 1979, Nobel laureate Oliver Williamson wrote that the governance structure is the “framework within which the integrity of a transaction is decided.” He further added that “because contracts are varied and complex, governance structures vary with the nature of the transaction.” \n\nA collaborative governance framework has four components:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25926482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25926482", "title": "Copyright Criminals", "text": "Copyright Criminals\n\nCopyright Criminals is a 2009 documentary film directed and produced by Benjamin Franzen examining the creative and the commercial value of sampling including the related debates over artistic expression, copyright law, and money.\n\n\"Copyright Criminals\" was funded by the Ford Foundation, University of Iowa and John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. It premiered in 2009 at the Toronto International Film Festival. It was broadcast nationally in the United States on 18 January 2010 on Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) on the documentary series \"Independent Lens\".\n\nSampling is when musicians make an audio montage taking a portion, or sample, of a sound recording and reusing, remixing or reworking it as a separate instrumental layer or loop into another song. It is popular with hip hop musicians. The documentary contains interviews with several sampling artist pioneers, including hip-hop groups. A longtime area of contention from a legal perspective, early sampling used portions of other artists' recordings without permission. Once hip-hop, rap and other music incorporating sampling began generating a noticeably substantial income, the original artists began to take legal action, claiming copyright infringement and demanding high-sum royalties. Sampling artists fought back, claiming fair use.\n\nThe documentary took five years to finish (2004–2009). It is the debut film for Franzen, a graduate of University of Iowa and founder of Atlanta-based production company Changing Images, and Kembrew McLeod, a professor specializing in copyright law at University of Iowa.\n\nArtists that appear in the documentary:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7107344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7107344", "title": "Copyright law of Romania", "text": "Copyright law of Romania\n\nIn Romania, copyright law (\"drept de autor\") is defined by the Law No. 8/1996 on authors rights and related rights, as republished in 2018, which currently implements European copyright law (directives). Copyright is acquired irrespective of formalities, and normally belongs to the natural person/s who created the protected work. A protected work is created if the work is the author's own intellectual creation. Like other EU civil law jurisdictions, Romanian copyright law recognises two types of rights: moral rights and patrimonial rights.\n\n\nThese rights cannot be waived or transferred. After the author’s death, the rights under (1), (2) and (4) above are exercised by heirs, for an unlimited period of time.\n\n\nIn addition, the author of a graphic, plastic art or photographic work has a resale right, which entitles him or her to receive a percentage of the price when the work makes the object of a reselling operation in which an art dealer participates as seller, buyer or agent.\n\nAccording to chapter 2 (Subjects of copyright) of the Law No. 8/1996 on authors rights and related rights, the Author is the natural person or persons who created the work. It is presumed to be the author the person under whose name the work was first brought to public knowledge. When the work has been made public in anonymous form or under a pseudonym that does not allow the identification of the author, the copyright shall be exercised by the natural or legal person making it public with the consent of the author, as long as he does not disclose his identity. The copyright of the joint work belongs to its co-authors, one of which may be the principal author, under the terms of this law.\n\nAccording to chapter III (Object of copyright) of the Law No. 8/1996 on authors rights and related rights, any original works (creation of human mind) in the literary, artistic or scientific fields, whatever the mode of creation, mode or form of expression, and regardless of their value and purpose, are protected by copyright.\n\nThe article 7 of the Law No. 8/1996 on authors rights and related rights provides a non-exhaustive list of works protected by copyright, such as:\n\n\nIn Romania, there is no requirement for a copyright notice in order to obtain copyright protection, as original works are automatically protected by copyright as of their creation. However, the author and other copyright holders are entitled to place on their works a copyright notice consisting of the letter C in a circle together with their name, and the place and year of the first publication. In cases where such a copyright notice is displayed, there is a presumption that the work is copyright protected in favour of the person using the copyright notice, until otherwise proven.\n\nDuration of copyright protection is defined by chapter V (Object of copyright) of the Law No. 8/1996 on authors rights and related rights. The general rule is that the patrimonial rights of the author last for seventy (70) years after his or her death. If there are no heirs, the exercise of these rights rests with the collective management body mandated during the lifetime by the author or, in the absence of a mandate, by the collective management body with the largest number of members in the field of creation.\n\nHolders of copyright or related rights can file for infringement when there is:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4157988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4157988", "title": "Courthouses in New South Wales", "text": "Courthouses in New South Wales\n\nCourthouses in New South Wales were designed by the Colonial Architect, later known as the Government Architect.\n\nThe first New South Welsh Charter of Justice of 2 April 1787 created the power to convene a criminal court. This was the Court of Criminal Jurisdiction. The first Charter of Justice also created a Court of Civil Jurisdiction to hear and determine in a summary way all pleas relating to real and personal property, debts, contracts, grant of probates and to administer intestate estates. Magistrates appointed in the early years of the colony were unpaid honorary appointments. The first paid magistrate was D'Arcy Wentworth appointed in 1810.\n\nLocal Courts were known as Courts of Petty Sessions. Such courts had originated in England in the fourteenth century. Although during the early years of the colony references are made to Courts of Petty Session sittings by Magistrates, it was not until 1832 that Courts of Petty Sessions were formally established in New South Wales.\n\nThe first Courts of Petty Sessions were proclaimed in the Government Gazette of 3 October 1832. The proclamations gave notice that Courts of Petty Sessions were to be held at the following locations: Sydney (Police Office and Hyde Park Barracks), Inverary, \nParramatta, Bathurst, Windsor, Newcastle, Penrith, Paterson's Plains, Liverpool, Maitland, Campbelltown, Darlington, Wollongong, Invermein, Stonequarry Creek, Port Stephens, Bong Bong or Berrima, Port Macquarie, Goulburn Plains.\n\nMore than three hundred courthouses have been built in New South Wales since settlement. The oldest existing Local Court in New South Wales is the Local Court at Windsor which was built in 1821.\n\nIn 1985 the Local Courts Act abolished Courts of Petty Sessions by changing their name to Local Courts and appointments are now made under that Act. There are currently 160 Local Courts established throughout New South Wales and 130 Magistrates appointed.\n\nLocal Courts in New South Wales have jurisdiction to deal with:\n\n\nLocal Courts also provide the following services:\n\n\nThe following courthouses are located in New South Wales, with the Colonial Architect James Barnet and his office responsible for designing and building 130 courthouses across the state. Some of the courthouses designed by Barnet replaced existing courthouses where it was deemed the building had been outgrown:\n"}
{"id": "7920535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7920535", "title": "Earthen floor", "text": "Earthen floor\n\nAn earthen floor, also called an adobe floor, is a floor made of dirt, raw earth, or other unworked ground materials. It is usually constructed, in modern times, with a mixture of sand, finely chopped straw and clay, mixed to a thickened consistency and spread with a trowel on a sub-surface such as concrete. Once dry, it is then usually saturated with several treatments of a drying oil.\n\n\nEarthen floors were predominant in most houses until the mid 14th century in Europe, and persist to this day in many parts of the world. In medieval times, almost all peasant housing had earthen floors, usually of hardpacked dirt topped off with a thin layer of straw for warmth and comfort. \nSoil in the southwestern parts of the US contains nearly a perfectly mixed ratio of adobe.\n\nIn China, most cottages and smaller houses also had earthen floors, made of rammed earth and sealed with raw linseed.\n\nEarthen floors were used in ancient Greece, and in many other countries in ancient times.\n\nEarthen floors, along with stone and sometimes wood, were used as threshing floors.\n\nIn modern times, most earthen floors are often laid over the top of a subfloor of tamped gravel or cob or adobe, and then a mixture of clay, sand and fiber are mixed and leveled onto the subfloor. The finished layer can be 1/2 to 2 inches thick, and once dry is sealed with a drying oil (like linseed oil). Earthen floors can be laid over the top of previously installed wood floors but weight can become an issue.\n\nA drying oil like linseed oil is usually used to seal the floor and protect it from wear and tear. A final coat of a wax sealing finish (perilla oil or floor wax) can be used to increase durability and lustre.\n\n"}
{"id": "16134117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16134117", "title": "Edict of Serdica", "text": "Edict of Serdica\n\nThe Edict of Serdica, also called Edict of Toleration by Galerius, was issued in 311 in Serdica (today Sofia, Bulgaria) by the Roman emperor Galerius, officially ending the Diocletianic persecution of Christianity in the East.\n\nThe Edict implicitly granted Christianity the status of \"religio licita\", a worship recognized and accepted by the Roman Empire. It was the first edict legalizing Christianity, preceding the Edict of Milan by two years.\n\nOn February 23, 303, on the Terminalia feast, Emperor Diocletian, by proposal of Galerius, issued a persecutory edict. The edict prescribed:\n\nAt that time, Galerius held the position of Caesar of the Roman Empire, the second most important position after the Emperors.\n\nIn 305 Diocletian abdicated; Galerius, his successor, continued persecution in the East until 311, when he granted Christians forgiveness, freedom of worship and, implicitly, the \"status\" of \"religio licita\".\n\nPromulgated in the name of the other official members of the Tetrarchy, the edict marked the end of persecutions against the Christians.\n"}
{"id": "22992940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22992940", "title": "Electoral Commission of South Africa", "text": "Electoral Commission of South Africa\n\nThe Electoral Commission of South Africa (often referred to as the Independent Electoral Commission or IEC) is South Africa's election management body, an independent organisation established under chapter nine of the Constitution. It conducts elections to the National Assembly, provincial legislatures and municipal councils.\n\nA temporary Electoral Commission was created in 1993 to manage the first non-racial election of the national and provincial legislatures, which was held on 26–29 April 1994. The permanent Electoral Commission was established on 17 October 1996, and has since managed general (national and provincial) elections in 1999, 2004, 2009 and 2014, and local (municipal) elections in 2000, 2006, 2011 and 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "9018754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9018754", "title": "Eurasian Patent Convention", "text": "Eurasian Patent Convention\n\nThe Eurasian Patent Convention (EAPC) () is an international patent law treaty instituting both the Eurasian Patent Organization (EAPO) and the legal system pursuant to which Eurasian patents are granted. It was signed on 9 September 1994 in Moscow, Russia, and entered into force on 12 August 1995.\n\nAfter the Collapse of the Soviet Union, its successor states had no system for protection of intellectual property. A common patent system was perceived in a convention which was signed on 27 December 1991, but never entered into force. This system would provide for a true unitary patent that \"may be granted, assigned or canceled in the territory of all the Contracting States with due regard to the invention patentability criteria provided for in the USSR legislation\". The second version of the convention went less far: in line with the European Patent Convention, it provided for a single evaluation phase, but after approval, it would be converted in a bundle of national patents.\n\nThe convention was signed by 10 states in 1994, 8 of which became members one year later upon ratification. \nAn opposition can be filed against a Eurasian patent granted under the provisions of the Eurasian Patent Convention within six months from the publication of the granted patent.\n\n\"Between 1996 and the end of 2015, approximately 43 700 Eurasian applications were filed and 22 700 Eurasian patents were granted at the EAPO.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2187724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187724", "title": "Exempt property", "text": "Exempt property\n\nExempt property, under the law of property in many jurisdictions, is property that can neither be passed by will nor claimed by creditors of the deceased in the event that a decedent leaves a surviving spouse or surviving descendants. Typically, exempt property includes a family car, and a certain amount of cash (perhaps $10,000-$20,000), or the equivalent value in personal property.\n\nExempt property calculations and provisions are determined on a state-by-state basis. This is important within the bankruptcy process, and may affect an individual's decision to file Chapter 7 or Chapter 13 bankruptcy. State exemptions vary from strict to generous. For example, Texas property exemptions are more lenient and include your homestead and up to $60,000 in personal property. Texas also exempts certain investments and insurance policies. Other states, such as Arizona, may exempt only $150 in a checking account comparatively speaking.\n"}
{"id": "13466082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466082", "title": "Federal Sentencing Reporter", "text": "Federal Sentencing Reporter\n\nFederal Sentencing Reporter is a law journal published five times annually by University of California Press, in Berkeley, California for the Vera Institute of Justice. Along with the presentation of new ideas and viewpoints on existing legislation and sentencing guidelines, the journal examines questions of sentencing policy and the practical application of modern sentencing reforms. The journal was established in 1988 and the managing editors are Douglas Berman (Ohio State University), and Steve Chanenson (Villanova University School of Law). \n"}
{"id": "22263201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22263201", "title": "Financial Stability Board", "text": "Financial Stability Board\n\nThe Financial Stability Board (FSB) is an international body that monitors and makes recommendations about the global financial system. It was established after the G20 London summit in April 2009 as a successor to the Financial Stability Forum (FSF). The Board includes all G20 major economies, FSF members, and the European Commission. Hosted and funded by the Bank for International Settlements, the board is based in Basel, Switzerland.\n\nThe FSB's predecessor organization, the Financial Stability Forum (FSF), had emerged from a group of finance ministries, central bankers, and international financial bodies, which had been founded in 1999 to promote international financial stability by the finance ministers and central bank governors of G7 countries. The FSF facilitated discussion and cooperation on supervision and surveillance of financial institutions, transactions, and events. FSF was managed by a small secretariat housed at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland. The FSF membership included about a dozen nations who participate through their central banks, financial ministries and departments, and securities regulators, including: the United States, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands and several other industrialized economies as well as several international economic organizations. At the G20 summit on 15 November 2008, it was agreed that the membership of the FSF will be expanded to include emerging economies, such as China. The 2009 G20 London summit decided to establish a successor to the FSF, the Financial Stability Board (FSB) to include members of the G20 who had not been FSF members.\n\nThe Financial Stability Forum met in Rome on 28–29 March 2008 in connection with the Bank for International Settlements. Members discussed current challenges in financial markets, and various policy options to address them from this point forward. At this meeting, the FSF discussed a report to be delivered to G7 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in April 2008. The report identifies key weaknesses underlying current financial turmoil, and recommends actions to improve market and institutional resilience. The FSF discussed work underway at the International Monetary Fund and Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development with regard to sovereign wealth funds. The International Monetary Fund is working closely with sovereign wealth funds to identify a set of voluntary best practice guidelines, and is focusing on the governance, institutional arrangements and transparency of sovereign wealth funds. On 12 April 2008, the FSF delivered a report to the G7 Finance Ministers detailing its recommendations:\n\nThe High-Level Panel on the Governance of the FSB was an independent initiative coordinated by Domenico Lombardi of the Brookings Institution and funded by the Connect U.S. Fund. It assembled a high-level panel of experts, including Uganda's former Finance Minister and Central Bank Governor of Uganda Ezra Suruma, former Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan Djoomart Otorbaev, former Finance Minister of Colombia José Antonio Ocampo, and Jacques Mistral, a former member of France's Council of Economic Analysis. Lombardi published the panel's final report in September 2011 as a Brookings Issue Paper, concluding that the FSB's governance had not evolved as quickly as its prominence. It made several recommendations:\n\nAt the 2011 G20 Cannes summit, the G20 called for a strengthening of the FSB's capacity resources and governance by establishing the FSB \"on an enduring organizational basis\". In its 2012 report to the G20 Los Cabos summit, the FSB set out concrete steps to strengthen the organization's capacity, resources, and governance as well as establish it on an enduring organizational footing. The G20 endorsed the FSB's restated and amended charter. In January 2013, the FSB became a separate legal entity in the form of an association or \"Verein\" under Swiss law, when its Articles of Association were adopted by the FSB Plenary.\n\nThe FSB is hosted and funded by the Bank for International Settlements under a five-year agreement executed between the two in January 2013. The bank bears the majority of the FSB's operating expenses, and the FSB does not have any assets, liabilities, or revenue.\n\nIn late July 2016, after the world markets had faced a number of crises, including terrorism and the UK's decision to leave the European Union, Carney sent a letter to Finance Ministers attending the G20 Summit and to Central Bank Governors outlining the reforms the FSB had made indicating that the global economy and financial system had \"continued to function effectively\" and had \"weathered\" the \"spikes in uncertainty and risk aversion\", confirming that \"this resilience in the face of stress demonstrates the enduring benefits of G20 post-crisis reforms\". He emphasized the value of specific reforms that had been implemented by the Financial Stability Board stating that these had \"dampened aftershocks from [global financial crises] rather than amplifying them\". He expressed confidence in the FSB's strategies, stating that \"resilience in the face of stress demonstrates the enduring benefits of G20 post-crisis reforms\".\n\nThe FSB published the pre-G20 summit letter in light of the \"two spikes in uncertainty and risk aversion\" weathered by the global economy and financial system as of late July 2016, which outlined its priorities for 2016:\n\nIn addition to the priorities listed above, the FSB also sought to:\n\nIn November 2016, the FSB and the board of the Bank for International Settlements agreed to a further five-year extension of the agreement from January 2018 to 2023.\n\nThe FSB represented the G20 leaders' first major international institutional innovation. U.S. Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner has described it as \"in effect, a fourth pillar\" of the architecture of global economic governance. The FSB has been assigned a number of important tasks, working alongside the International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and the World Trade Organization. Chairman of the board is the Canadian Mark Carney, Governor of the Bank of England.\n\nUnlike most multilateral financial institutions, the FSB lacks a legal form and any formal power, given that its charter is an informal and nonbinding memorandum of understanding for cooperation adopted by its members.\n\nThe FSB has 68 member institutions, comprising ministries of finance, central banks, and supervisory and regulatory authorities from 25 jurisdictions as well as 10 international organizations and standard-setting bodies, and 6 Regional Consultative Groups reaching out to 65 other jurisdictions around the world.\n\n\n\nAs a 2011 Brookings Institution report noted, there are no set rules for how the FSB chair is selected, reflecting the FSB's newness as well as the \"central banking culture of discretion and informality that permeates the institution\".\n\n"}
{"id": "418376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418376", "title": "Freedom of the seas", "text": "Freedom of the seas\n\nFreedom of the seas (,  \"free sea\") is a principle in the international law and sea. It stresses freedom to navigate the oceans. It also disapproves of war fought in water. The freedom is to be breached only in a necessary international agreement.\n\nThis principle was one of U.S. President Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen Points proposed during the First World War. In his speech to the Congress, the president said:\n\nThe United States' allies Britain and France were opposed to this point, as Great Britain was also a considerable naval power at the time. As with Wilson's other points, freedom of the seas was rejected by the German government.\n\nToday, the concept of \"freedom of the seas\" can be found in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea under Article 87(1) which states: \"the high seas are open to all states, whether coastal or land-locked\". Article 87(1) (a) to (f) gives a non-exhaustive list of freedoms including navigation, overflight, the laying of submarine cables, building artificial islands, fishing and scientific research.\n\nBetween the end of the 15th century up until the 17th century various powers claimed sovereignty over parts of the sea. In 1609, Dutch jurist and philosopher Hugo Grotius wrote what is considered the foundation of international legal doctrine regarding the seas and oceans – \"Mare Liberum\", a Latin title that translates to \"freedom of the seas\". The Grotian concept of \"freedom of the sea\" was only accepted after a century long debate between Grotius' ideas and John Seldens.\n\nWhile it is generally assumed that Grotius first propounded the principle of freedom of the seas, countries in the Indian Ocean and other Asian seas accepted the right of unobstructed navigation long before Grotius wrote his \"De Jure Praedae\" (\"On the Law of Spoils\") in the year of 1604. Previously, in the 16th century, Spanish theologian Francisco de Vitoria postulated the idea of freedom of the seas in a more rudimentary fashion under the principles of \"jus gentium\".\n\nDuring World War II, nations started to expand and claim many resources and water territories all over their surrounding coasts. There were four international treaties meticulously drafted in the late 1950s and onto the 1970s, but the issues were not resolved between nations until 1982 when the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea was introduced.\n\nUNCLOS is a Law of the Sea treaty: an agreement of rights and responsibilities of nations and their use of the world’s ocean with guidelines of trade, environment, and the management of marine and open seas resources. UNCLOS replaced the four international treaties drafted in the late 1950s through 1970s. As of 2013, 165 countries and the European Union have joined the Convention.\n\nAccording to international law, Article 92 of the convention which describes ships shall sail under the flag of one state only and, save in exceptional cases expressly provided for in international treaties or in this Convention, shall be subject to its exclusive jurisdiction on the high seas; however, when a ship is involved in certain criminal acts, such as piracy, any nation can exercise jurisdiction under the doctrine of universal jurisdiction. High seas were defined as any part of the sea that was not either territorial sea or internal waters, territorial waters and exclusive economic zones. Article 88 of the 1982 Convention states that the high seas shall be reserved for peaceful purposes. Many countries engage in military maneuvers and the testing of conventional weapons and nuclear weapons on the high seas.\nIn order to deliver the right punishment to the right person or state, ships must be registered to a country to show proof of ownership. The owner of the vessel sometimes prefers to pay the lower registration fees by picking countries such as Panama, Bermuda, Italy, Malta and the Netherlands. According to Cruise Lines International Association, 90% of commercial vessels calling on U.S. ports fly foreign flags. To avoid the high cost with more rules and regulations, ships and tankers sometime prefer lower cost registration with a lower standard of inspection and regulation by picking a country that exercises less control over their registered ships, though many ships are owned by individuals or companies in another country (most commonly Japan and Greece) under a system called \"flag of convenience\". Registering a ship in Panama means that the ship is governed by the maritime rules of Panama rather than the ship owner's country. Ship owners do this because Panama has low taxes and fewer labor and safety regulations than most other countries. Ship owners can make their staff work longer hours in less safe environments, and therefore maximize their profits. Other countries, including Liberia, Cyprus and the Bahamas also offer flags of convenience, but Panama has the most ships registered under the scheme. Ships registered with the US will cost more, and the employee wages will be even higher. Freedom of the seas allows a ship to move freely on the ocean as long as it follows international law.\n\nFrom the Vikings to the European, Central Asia, Africa and North and South America, trade has served an important role in history, and has been a key factor of a growing economy. Trade transfers the ownership of goods from one person or entity to another by getting a product or service in exchange from the buyer. When a ship sets sail, there may be many ports waiting for it to bring goods from all over the world for trade and sale. Free trade opening up markets to foreign suppliers increases competition. Without free trade, domestic companies may have enjoyed monopolies or oligopolies that enabled them to keep prices well above marginal costs. Trade liberalization will undermine that market power.\n\nThe World Trade Organization states that \"The ocean is a big part of the free trade happening around the world. Every day we see silk imported from China, fruits from Mexico, spices from India, chocolate from Africa and many more goods in our home were imported from another country. The ocean made it possible for many countries to put their cargoes on to ships and transfer them across the ocean. Hundreds of nations joined the World Trade Organization. With goods to be traded from one nation to another through the transportation on various size vessels from coast to coast, trade promoted more economic value to goods where goods and services are produced to support the supply and demand of the participants in the organization.\"\n\nThe Merchant Marine Act of 1920, also known as the Jones Act (46 USC § 883) is a maritime law that controls coastal trade within the United States and determines which ships may lawfully engage in that trade and the rules under which they must operate. The act is in place to protect jobs for US citizens and its people working at U.S. ports, and on U.S. vessels. Many vessels around the globe sail under many different flags, and have different crews from different parts of the world where the pay rate is much lower than the U.S. The Jones Act protects the Americans' jobs and restricts coastwise transportation of passengers. 46 USC § 12108 additionally restricts the use of foreign vessels to commercially catch or transport fish in U.S. waters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9522461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9522461", "title": "Freedom of wombs", "text": "Freedom of wombs\n\nFreedom of wombs (Spanish Libertad de vientres), also referred to as free birth, was a judicial principle applied in several countries in South America in the 19th century; it did not allow for the enslavement of slaves' children at birth. This overturned a tradition of enslavement in European colonies in the Americas where babies born to enslaved women became the property of the women's owners. Although intended to be a gradual abolition of slavery, the principle was unevenly applied and many countries did not follow through with full abolition.\n\nThe Freedom of Wombs Law, commonly referred to as The Free Womb Law was indeed a rule that all children who were born and raised from enslaved women were not enslaved at birth. This law provided protections of slave savings for each and every child, so that they could be protected, if anything were to happen. This also acknowledged that slaves could be self-purchased because they eventually did not need to get permission from, or have to really listen to their masters, and or multiple slave owners. This also allowed for potential slave registration to comply with it. It is also known that Congressional leads have changed the outcome of the Free Womb Law. These outlined the specific rules that Indigenous people had to follow in Chapter 4: Interpreting Machudo de Assis of the book entitled \"Honor Status, and Law In Modern Latin America, written by Sueann Caulfield, Sarah C. Chambers, Laura Putnam and editors.\n\nA movement for independence from Spain grew in the American colonies in the 19th century, influenced by liberal ideas, such as the abolition of slavery, which Mexico had declared in 1829 by President Vicente Guerrero, Great Britain in 1833, and the United States in 1865 at the end of that country's civil war. One of the first steps in gradual abolition was the \"Ley de Libertad de Vientres,\" an 1811 law written by Manuel de Salas of Chile.\n\nIn Argentina, the Law of Wombs was passed on February 2, 1813 by the Assembly of Year XIII. The law stated that those born to slave mothers after January 31, 1813 would be granted freedom when contracting matrimony, or on their 16th birthday for women and 20th for men. Upon manumission, they were to be given land and tools to work it. In 1853, Argentina fully abolished slavery with the Constitution of 1853. \n\nIn Brazil, in 1871 the “Free Womb Law”, also known as the “Law of 1871”, was passed. By the 1870s social tensions were rising due to slavery in Brazil. Conservatives and Parliament favored the idea of emancipating slaves and enacted a law freeing all slaves and children born to enslaved women. The \"Free Womb Law\" made it so that children born to a enslaved women were not enslaved and slaves themselves were consequently then granted freedom through self-purchase. Children born to slaves were now free people and this law began the process of slaves becoming free people. Slave masters had no say in the newly recognized right of freedom granted to children born to slaves. \n\nIn Peru, the president José de San Martín established \"the freedom of wombs\" for those born after the declaration of independence in 1821.\n\nIn Colombia, the Law of wombs was first passed by the government of Antioquia in 1814, but it was not until 1824 that the country accepted it.\n\nSpain passed a similar law in 1869 to apply to its plantation colonies of Cuba and Puerto Rico, and passed it in 1870, to take effect in 1872. On the Iberian mainland, Spain had abolished slavery in 1837. It is also known as \"Ley Moret\" (Moret Law). \n\nVenezuela endorsed a similar law in 1821, as well as Ecuador,\nUruguay in 1825, Paraguay in 1842 and Brazil in 1871.\n\nThe countries that first denied the enslavement of babies born to enslaved mothers proceeded to abolish slavery in total later. Similar gradual abolition laws had been passed in some of the northern United States after the American Revolutionary War, namely, New York in 1799 and New Jersey in 1804. All the slaves were freed in both states before the American Civil War.\n\n"}
{"id": "671259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=671259", "title": "Golden Bull of 1356", "text": "Golden Bull of 1356\n\nThe Golden Bull of 1356 (, , ) was a decree issued by the Imperial Diet at Nuremberg and Metz (Diet of Metz, 1356/57) headed by the Emperor Charles IV which fixed, for a period of more than four hundred years, important aspects of the constitutional structure of the Holy Roman Empire. It was named the \"Golden Bull\" for the golden seal it carried.\n\nIn June 2013 the Golden Bull was included in the UNESCO's Memory of the World Register.\n\nAccording to the written text of the Golden Bull of 1356\nThough the election of the King of the Romans by the chief ecclesiastical and secular princes of the Holy Roman Empire was well established, disagreements about the process and papal involvement had repeatedly resulted in controversies, most recently in 1314 when Louis of Bavaria and Frederick of Austria had been elected by opposing sets of electors. Louis, who had eventually subdued his rival's claim on the battlefield, made a first attempt to clarify the process in the Declaration of Rhense of 1338, which renounced any papal involvement and had restricted the right to choose a new king to the prince-electors. The Golden Bull, promulgated by Louis's successor and rival, Charles IV, was more precise in several ways.\n\nFirstly, the Bull explicitly named the seven Prince-electors (\"Kurfürsten\") who were to choose the King and also defined the \"Reichserzämter\", their (largely ceremonial) offices at court:\nSecondly, the principle of majority voting was explicitly stated for the first time in the Empire. The Bull prescribed that four (out of seven) votes would always suffice to elect a new King; as a result, three Electors could no longer block the election. Thirdly, the Electoral principalities were declared indivisible, and succession to them was regulated to ensure that the votes would never be divided. Finally, the Bull cemented a number of privileges for the Electors, confirming their elevated role in the Empire. It is therefore also a milestone in the establishment of largely independent states in the Empire, a process to be concluded only centuries later, notably with the Peace of Westphalia of 1648.\n\nThis codification of prince-electors, though largely based on precedence, was not uncontroversial, especially in regard to the two chief rivals of the ruling House of Luxembourg:\n\nThe bull regulated the whole election process in great detail, listing explicitly where, when, and under which circumstances what should be done by whom, not only for the prince-electors but also (for example) for the population of Frankfurt, where the elections were to be held, and also for the counts of the regions the prince-electors had to travel through to get there. The decision to hold the elections in Frankfurt reflected a traditional feeling dating from East Frankish days that both election and coronation ought to take place on Frankish soil. However, the election location was not the only specified location; the bull specified that the coronation would take place in Aachen, and Nuremberg would be the place where the first diet of a reign should be held. The elections were to be concluded within thirty days; failing that, the bull prescribed that the prince-electors were to receive only bread and water until they had decided:\n\nBesides regulating the election process, the chapters of the Golden Bull contained many minor decrees. For instance, it also defined the order of marching when the emperor was present, both with and without his insignia. A relatively major decision was made in chapter 15, where Charles IV outlawed any ' and ', meaning in particular the city alliances (\"Städtebünde\"), but also other communal leagues that had sprung up through the communal movement in mediaeval Europe. Most \"Städtebünde\" were subsequently dissolved, sometimes forcibly, and where refounded, their political influence was much reduced . Thus the Golden Bull also strengthened the nobility in general to the detriment of the cities .\n\nThe pope's involvement with the Golden Bull of 1356 was basically nonexistent, which was significant in the history of relations between the popes and the emperors. When Charles IV laid down procedure for electing a King of the Romans, he mentioned nothing about receiving papal confirmation of the election. However, Pope Innocent VI did not protest this because he needed Charles’s support against the Visconti. Pope Innocent continued to have good relations with Charles IV after the Golden Bull of 1356 until the former's death in 1362.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15961843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15961843", "title": "Heerlijkheid", "text": "Heerlijkheid\n\nA heerlijkheid (a Dutch word; pl. \"heerlijkheden\"; also called \"heerschap\"; Latin: \"Dominium\") was a landed estate that served as the lowest administrative and judicial unit in rural areas in the Dutch-speaking Low Countries before 1800. It originated as a unit of lordship under the feudal system during the Middle Ages. The English equivalents are \"manor\", \"seigniory\", and \"lordship\". The \"heerlijkheid\" system was the Dutch version of manorialism that prevailed in the Low Countries and was the precursor to the modern municipality system in the Netherlands and Flemish Belgium.\n\nA typical \"heerlijkheid\" manor consisted of a village and the surrounding lands extending out for a kilometre or so. Taking 18th-century Wassenaar as an example of a large \"hoge heerlijkheid\", it was 3,612 morgens in size and had 297 houses. Nearby Voorschoten was 1,538 morgens in size and had 201 houses. Nootdorp was an \"ambachtsheerlijkheid\" of 196 morgens and 58 houses. There were 517 \"heerlijkheden\" in the province of Holland in the 18th century. All fell into the last three categories in the list below (except for a few for which this information is unknown).\n\nNot all \"heerlijkheden\" were the same. They differed in size and composition. Also, a \"heerlijkheid\" should not be confused with a larger territory, like a county (\"graafschap\") or viscounty (\"burggraafschap\"), nor with administrative regions on par with an English shire, Dutch \"gouw\", German \"Gau\", or Roman or Carolingian \"pagus\". A Flemish castellany (\"kasselrij\" or \"burggraafschap\") was larger and different from a \"heerlijkheid\", but they were similar in some ways.\n\nThere were different kinds of \"heerlijkheid\":\n\n\nThe central figure was the lord of the \"heerlijkheid\" and effectively its owner—the manorial lord or lady. In Dutch, the lord was called \"heer\" and the lady \"vrouw(e)\". The lord was also referred to by the Latin word \"dominus\". A rarer English alternative is \"seigneur\". There were different kinds of lord and lady:\n\n\nUnder the feudal system, a manorial lord typically was himself the vassal of a higher-ranking tenant-in-chief, usually a highborn noble, who was in turn the crown vassal of the king or emperor. However, sometimes there was no mesne tenancy (\"tussenliggende heerschappij\"), as was the case with knight's fees held \"in capite\" (\"rijksonmiddellijke heerlijkheid\"). The \"heerlijkheid\" was ruled directly by a count (\"graaf\"), a viscount (\"burggraaf\") or a baron (\"baron\"). Also, it was not uncommon for the lord to be ecclesiastical, e.g. a prince-bishop (\"prins-bisschop\") or prince-abbot (\"vorst-abt\").\n\nOriginally, \"heerlijkheden\" were held exclusively by the nobility. However, starting around the 16th century, lordship over a \"heerlijkheid\" was not synonymous with nobility. A \"heerlijkheid\" could be bought and sold. Many ended up in the hands of wealthy merchants and a political class known as the regents.\n\nIn addition, many were bought by boroughs (burghs). In the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, it was not unusual for a borough to purchase the \"heerlijkheden\" around it in order to gain control and ownership of the surrounding land and the resulting economic advantages. Boroughs were themselves not part of the manorial system: the countryside and villages were governed by lords, whereas boroughs were self-governing.\n\nThe \"heerlijkheden\" came into being as a result of the feudal system, in particular the sovereign's delegated judicial prerogative. The crown, as lord paramount, granted the right to govern and to exercise judicial authority to a crown vassal, often a confidante or as a reward for military service or political support. The crown vassal—e.g. a count (\"graaf\") or duke (\"hertog\")—thus exercised all or part of the sovereign's royal authority. In turn the crown vassal granted rights to the mesne lords of the \"heerlijkheden\".\n\nBecause a fief (\"leen\") originated out of a bond between vassal and lord for military service, vassalage (Dutch \"\") was personal not heritable. With the advent of professional armies, the vassalage bond fell into disuse or was replaced by scutage; however, vassalage remained personal. One of the consequences of this was that, on the death of the vassal (\"leenman\" or \"vazal\"), the fief escheated to the lord (\"leenheer\"). The vassal's heir was able to retain the \"heerlijkheid\" through the commendation ceremony (\"leenhulde\"), the process of paying homage and swearing fealty officiated at the head manor court (\"souveraine leenhof\" or \"leenkammer\"). The new vassal made a symbolic payment (\"leenverhef\") to his lord. The same ceremony was held when a \"heerlijkheid\" manor was sold. If there was no direct descendant, other blood relatives could exercise their right of \"laudatio parentum\" (Du \"naderschap\"), which grants them a right of first refusal and explains how \"heerlijkheden\" were able to be kept in the same families for centuries.\n\nThe tenancy of a \"heerlijkheid\" is not to be confused with land ownership. It was an estate in land, not land \"per se\". Although lords of the manor generally owned property within a \"heerlijkheid\" (often substantial amounts), it was possible for a lord not to own any property at all within his own \"heerlijkheid\". Also, when agricultural land was held by a lord in the Low Countries, the amount held was smaller in comparison to other countries.\n\nLordship conferred a set of manorial rights. The word \"heerlijkheid\" denotes an estate in which these limited rights were held and could be exercised. The rights exercised varied widely, and were more extensive and survived longer in the eastern provinces. A manorial lord was able to function as a minor potentate within \"his\" \"heerlijkheid\". However, his manorial rights were limited and subject to numerous restrictions. The lord was required to conduct himself in accordance with local customary law.\n\n\nA lord was entitled to receive feudal incidents in the form of rents, levies, and other payments from various financial and property rights associated with a \"heerlijkheid\":\n\n\nOriginally \"heerlijkheden\" were in the hands of the nobility. Much of the wealth of a noble family came from their ownership. Many members of the nobiilty were heavily dependent on this source of power, income and status. Because the surnames of noble families were often derived from a \"heerlijkheid\" (e.g. \"van Wassenaer\"), it was important for the prestige of the family to maintain ownership over it. However, the economic benefits of a heerlijkheid were not always certain, finances were not always well arranged, and some nobles were poor.\n\nIn the province of Holland, possession of a \"heerlijkheid\" was a prerequisite for admission to the \"ridderschap\" (literally, the \"knighthood\"), the college of nobles that represented rural areas in the States of Holland. A seat in the \"ridderschap\" provided access to various financially interesting honorary positions and offices.\n\nIt was not unusual for a noble to amass a number of \"heerlijkheden\". Queen Beatrix is a modern-day example of a noblewoman who holds the titles to many \"heerlijkheden\". In addition to her primary titles, she is the Erfvrouwe and Vrijvrouwe of Ameland and the Vrouwe of Baarn, Besançon, Borculo, Bredevoort, Bütgenbach, Daasburg, Geertruidenberg, Heiloo, Upper and Lower Zwaluwe, Klundert, Lichtenvoorde, Loo, Montfort, Naaldwijk, Niervaart, Polanen, Steenbergen, Sint Maartensdijk, Sint Vith, Soest, Ter Eem, Turnhout, Willemstad and Zevenbergen.\n\nStarting around 1500, nobles began selling the rights to \"heerlijkheden\" to non-nobles; however, losing a \"heerlijkheid\" did not result in loss of noble status. The nobility were recognised by all as having a special status not attached to wealth or ownership of a \"heerlijkheid\".\n\nIn the southern provinces (modern-day Belgium) the financial character of a \"heerlijkheid\" was accentuated by the Royal Edict of 8 May 1664. From then on, a noble title was granted only if the following minimum payment was obtained from the income of the feudal estate.\n\n\nIn the southern provinces, this edict ensured the financial stability of the most prominent \"heerlijkheden\" and resulted in the rise of a new nobility based on wealth.\n\nStarting around the 16th century, lordship over a \"heerlijkheid\" was not synonymous with nobility. A \"heerlijkheid\" could be bought and sold. Many ended up in the hands of wealthy merchants and a small and exclusive political class known as the regents. In all the provinces the military obligations associated with a fief gradually died out so that by the 16th and 17th centuries the \"heerlijkheid\" was increasingly seen by non-nobles as a status symbol.\n\nSuccessful merchants and regents from the large towns saw the \"heerlijkheid\" as a country residence and a means of giving the appearance of noble status. It often came with large tracts of land and a castle or manor house. In noble fashion, they then added the name of their \"heerlijkheid\" to their own surname, resulting in surnames like Deutz van Assendelft, Six van Oterleek, Pompe van Meerdervoort and Beelaerts van Blokland). (The word \"van\" in the surname meant \"of\". However, very few Dutch surnames with \"van\" have their origins in the ownership of a \"heerlijkheid\".) They became what J.L. Price refers to as a \"quasi-nobility\". A \"heerlijkheid\" was also a source of income and an investment, but they were usually acquired for other reasons.\n\nIn the Netherlands, acquiring the rights to \"heerlijkheden\" did not confer noble status. The regent families who purchased \"heerlijkheden\" were not a true nobility, but by the early 19th century the ranks of the nobility had become so depleted that the Dutch king elevated certain members of the former regent class to noble status.)\n\nIn the southern provinces (modern-day Belgium) \"heerlijkheden\" and the associated rights were abolished after the French invasion of 1795. In the northern provinces (modern-day Netherlands) they were declared abolished around the same time as part of the inauguration of the Batavian Republic. This was formalised in the 1798 Batavian Constitution (Bataafsche Staatsregeling). A distinction was made between the feudal rights of appointment and patronage, which were completely abolished, and the income-related rights, which were more complicated. Some of these were feudal in nature and abolished. Others were similar to contractual or property rights and therefore their loss was compensable. Lordly claims for reparations flooded in. Some \"heerlijkheid\" rights were maintained or later restored as property rights and still exist today.\n\nThe overwhelming majority of the remaining rights disappeared in Belgium on the introduction of the 1830 constitution and in the Netherlands with the 1848 constitutional amendments. Most of the administrative functions of a \"heerlijkheid\" were transferred to the municipality and fell under the new Municipality Act (\"Gemeentewet\"). Responsibility for the manor courts and judicial system were taken over by the national government.\n\nAfter this, the use of the title \"Lord of...\" is based on the ownership of the remaining non-abolished rights. To this day there are people in the Netherlands who use the title \"Lord of...\". Unlike in the U.K., there is no trade today in ‘lord of the manor’ titles.\n\nWhat remains of the \"heerlijkheid\" system are many of the manors and castles. Most of them are now parts of estates, museums, parks, hotels, etc. Since the last \"heerlijkheid\" was seen over 200 years ago, many of the manor houses and castles have been rebuilt, or have been fully or partially demolished.\n\nA sign erected at the remaining parts of the Slot Heemstede (now in a park) describes what happened to this particular manor. The history and fate of this manor are typical:\n\n"}
{"id": "1228060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228060", "title": "Internet privacy", "text": "Internet privacy\n\nInternet privacy involves the right or mandate of personal privacy concerning the storing, repurposing, provision to third parties, and displaying information pertaining to oneself via of the Internet. Internet privacy is a subset of data privacy. Privacy concerns have been articulated from the beginnings of large-scale computer sharing.\n\nPrivacy can entail either \"Personally Identifying Information\" (PII) or non-PII information such as a site visitor's behavior on a website. PII refers to any information that can be used to identify an individual. For example, age and physical address alone could identify who an individual is without explicitly disclosing their name, as these two factors are unique enough to identify a specific person typically.\n\nSome experts such as Steve Rambam, a private investigator specializing in Internet privacy cases, believe that privacy no longer exists; saying, \"Privacy is dead – get over it\". In fact, it has been suggested that the \"appeal of online services is to broadcast personal information on purpose.\" On the other hand, in his essay \"The Value of Privacy,\" security expert Bruce Schneier says, \"Privacy protects us from abuses by those in power, even if we're doing nothing wrong at the time of surveillance.\"\n\nInternet and digital privacy are viewed differently from traditional expectations of privacy. Internet privacy is primarily concerned with protecting user information. Law Professor Jerry Kang explains that the term privacy expresses space, decision, and information. In terms of space, individuals have an expectation that their physical spaces (i.e. homes, cars) not be intruded. Privacy within the realm of decision is best illustrated by the landmark case \"Roe v. Wade.\" Lastly, information privacy is in regards to the collection of user information from a variety of sources, which produces great discussion.\n\nThe 1997 Information Infrastructure Task Force (IITF) created under President Clinton defined information privacy as \"an individual's claim to control the terms under which personal information--information identifiable to the individual--is acquired, disclosed, and used.\" At the end of the 1990s, with the rise of the Internet, it became clear that the internet and companies would need to abide by new rules to protect individual's privacy. With the rise of the internet and mobile networks the salience of internet privacy is a daily concern for users.\n\nPeople with only a casual concern for Internet privacy need not achieve total anonymity. Internet users may protect their privacy through controlled disclosure of personal information. The revelation of IP addresses, non-personally-identifiable profiling, and similar information might become acceptable trade-offs for the convenience that users could otherwise lose using the workarounds needed to suppress such details rigorously. On the other hand, some people desire much stronger privacy. In that case, they may try to achieve \"Internet anonymity\" to ensure privacy — use of the Internet without giving any third parties the ability to link the Internet activities to personally-identifiable information of the Internet user. In order to keep their information private, people need to be careful with what they submit to and look at online. When filling out forms and buying merchandise, that becomes tracked and because the information was not private, some companies are now sending Internet users spam and advertising on similar products.\n\nThere are also several governmental organizations that protect individual's privacy and anonymity on the Internet, to a point. In an article presented by the FTC, in October 2011, a number of pointers were brought to attention that helps an individual internet user avoid possible identity theft and other cyber-attacks. Preventing or limiting the usage of Social Security numbers online, being wary and respectful of emails including spam messages, being mindful of personal financial details, creating and managing strong passwords, and intelligent web-browsing behaviours are recommended, among others.\n\nPosting things on the Internet can be harmful or in danger of malicious attack. Some information posted on the Internet is permanent, depending on the terms of service, and privacy policies of particular services offered online. This can include comments written on blogs, pictures, and Internet sites, such as Facebook and Twitter. It is absorbed into cyberspace and once it is posted, anyone can potentially find it and access it. Some employers may research a potential employee by searching online for the details of their online behaviours, possibly affecting the outcome of the success of the candidate.\n\nCompanies are hired to watch what internet sites people visit, and then use the information, for instance by sending advertising based on one's browsing history. There are many ways in which people can divulge their personal information, for instance by use of \"social media\" and by sending bank and credit card information to various websites. Moreover, directly observed behaviour, such as browsing logs, search queries, or contents of the Facebook profile can be automatically processed to infer potentially more intrusive details about an individual, such as sexual orientation, political and religious views, race, substance use, intelligence, and personality. Further, even without any historical behavioural data, there are a large number of insights which can be generated solely by tracking onsite user interaction like post code, name and local address.\n\nThose concerned about Internet privacy often cite a number of \"privacy risks\" — events that can compromise privacy — which may be encountered through Internet use. These range from the gathering of statistics on users to more malicious acts such as the spreading of spyware and the exploitation of various forms of bugs (software faults).\n\nSeveral social networking sites try to protect the personal information of their subscribers. On Facebook, for example, privacy settings are available to all registered users: they can block certain individuals from seeing their profile, they can choose their \"friends\", and they can limit who has access to one's pictures and videos. Privacy settings are also available on other social networking sites such as Google Plus and Twitter. The user can apply such settings when providing personal information on the internet.\n\nIn late 2007 Facebook launched the Beacon program where user rental records were released on the public for friends to see. Many people were enraged by this breach in privacy, and the \"Lane v. Facebook, Inc.\" case ensued.\n\nChildren and adolescents often use the Internet (including social media) in ways which risk their privacy: a cause for growing concern among parents. Young people also may not realise that all their information and browsing can and may be tracked while visiting a particular site, and that it is up to them to protect their own privacy. They must be informed about all these risks. For example, on Twitter, threats include shortened links that lead one to potentially harmful places. In their email inbox, threats include email scams and attachments that get them to install malware and disclose personal information. On Torrent sites, threats include malware hiding in video, music, and software downloads. Even when using a smartphone, threats include geolocation, meaning that one's phone can detect where they are and post it online for all to see. Users can protect themselves by updating virus protection, using security settings, downloading patches, installing a firewall, screening email, shutting down spyware, controlling cookies, using encryption, fending off browser hijackers, and blocking pop-ups.\n\nHowever most people have little idea how to go about doing many of these things. How can the average user with no training be expected to know how to run their own network security (especially as things are getting more complicated all the time)? Many businesses hire professionals to take care of these issues, but most individuals can only do their best to learn about all this.\n\nIn 1998, the Federal Trade Commission in the USA considered the lack of privacy for children on the Internet, and created the Children Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). COPPA limits the options which gather information from children and created warning labels if potential harmful information or content was presented. In 2000, Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA) was developed to implement safe Internet policies such as rules, and filter software. These laws, awareness campaigns, parental and adult supervision strategies and Internet filters can all help to make the Internet safer for children around the world.\n\nThe privacy concerns of Internet users pose a serious challenge (Dunkan, 1996; Till, 1997). In an online survey conducted, approximately seven out of ten individuals responded that what worries them most is their privacy over the Internet than over the mail or phone. Internet privacy is slowly but surely becoming a threat, as a person's personal data may slip into the wrong hands if passed around through the Web.\n\nAn HTTP cookie is data stored on a user's computer that assists in automated access to websites or web features, or other state information required in complex web sites. It may also be used for user-tracking by storing special usage history data in a cookie, and such cookies—for example, those used by Google Analytics—are called \"tracking cookies\". Cookies are a common concern in the field of Internet privacy. Although website developers most commonly use cookies for legitimate technical purposes, cases of abuse occur. In 2009, two researchers noted that social networking profiles could be connected to cookies, allowing the social networking profile to be connected to browsing habits.\n\nIn the past, web sites have not generally made the user explicitly aware of the storing of cookies, however tracking cookies and especially third-party tracking cookies are commonly used as ways to compile long-term records of individuals' browsing histories — a privacy concern that prompted European and US lawmakers to take action in 2011. Cookies can also have implications for computer forensics. In past years, most computer users were not completely aware of cookies, but recently, users have become conscious of possible detrimental effects of Internet cookies: a recent study done has shown that 58% of users have at least once, deleted cookies from their computer, and that 39% of users delete cookies from their computer every month. Since cookies are advertisers' main way of targeting potential customers, and some customers are deleting cookies, some advertisers started to use persistent Flash cookies and zombie cookies, but modern browsers and anti-malware software can now block or detect and remove such cookies.\n\nThe original developers of cookies intended that only the website that originally distributed cookies to users could retrieve them, therefore returning only data already possessed by the website. However, in practice programmers can circumvent this restriction. Possible consequences include:\n\nCookies do have benefits that many people may not know. One benefit is that for websites that one frequently visits that require a password, cookies make it so they do not have to sign in every time. A cookie can also track one's preferences to show them websites that might interest them. Cookies make more websites free to use without any type of payment. Some of these benefits are also seen as negative. For example, one of the most common ways of theft is hackers taking one's username and password that a cookie saves. While a lot of sites are free, they have to make a profit somehow so they sell their space to advertisers. These ads, which are personalized to one's likes, can often freeze one's computer or cause annoyance. Cookies are mostly harmless except for third-party cookies. These cookies are not made by the website itself, but by web banner advertising companies. These third-party cookies are so dangerous because they take the same information that regular cookies do, such as browsing habits and frequently visited websites, but then they give out this information to other companies.\n\nCookies are often associated with pop-up windows because these windows are often, but not always, tailored to a person's preferences. These windows are an irritation because they are often hard to close out of because the close button is strategically hidden in an unlikely part of the screen. In the worst cases, these pop-up ads can take over the screen and while trying to exit out of it, can take one to another unwanted website.\n\nCookies are seen so negatively because they are not understood and go unnoticed while someone is simply surfing the Internet. The idea that every move one makes while on the Internet is being watched, would frighten most users.\n\nSome users choose to disable cookies in their web browsers. Such an action can reduce some privacy risks, but may severely limit or prevent the functionality of many websites. All significant web browsers have this disabling ability built-in, with no external program required. As an alternative, users may frequently delete any stored cookies. Some browsers (such as Mozilla Firefox and Opera) offer the option to clear cookies automatically whenever the user closes the browser. A third option involves allowing cookies in general, but preventing their abuse. There are also a host of wrapper applications that will redirect cookies and cache data to some other location. Concerns exist that the privacy benefits of deleting cookies have been over-stated.\n\nThe process of \"profiling\" (also known as \"tracking\") assembles and analyzes several events, each attributable to a single originating entity, in order to gain information (especially patterns of activity) relating to the originating entity. Some organizations engage in the profiling of people's web browsing, collecting the URLs of sites visited. The resulting profiles can potentially link with information that personally identifies the individual who did the browsing.\n\nSome web-oriented marketing-research organizations may use this practice legitimately, for example: in order to construct profiles of 'typical Internet users'. Such profiles, which describe average trends of large groups of Internet users rather than of actual individuals, can then prove useful for market analysis. Although the aggregate data does not constitute a privacy violation, some people believe that the initial profiling does.\n\nProfiling becomes a more contentious privacy issue when data-matching associates the profile of an individual with personally-identifiable information of the individual.\nGovernments and organizations may set up honeypot websites – featuring controversial topics – with the purpose of attracting and tracking unwary people. This constitutes a potential danger for individuals.\n\nWhen some users choose to disable HTTP cookie to reduce privacy risks as noted, new types of cookies were invented: since cookies are advertisers' main way of targeting potential customers, and some customers were deleting cookies, some advertisers started to use persistent Flash cookies and zombie cookies. In a 2009 study, Flash cookies were found to be a popular mechanism for storing data on the top 100 most visited sites. Another 2011 study of social media found that, “Of the top 100 web sites, 31 had at least one overlap between HTTP and Flash cookies.” However, modern browsers and anti-malware software can now block or detect and remove such cookies.\n\nFlash cookies, also known as Local Shared Objects, work the same ways as normal cookies and are used by the Adobe Flash Player to store information at the user's computer. They exhibit a similar privacy risk as normal cookies, but are not as easily blocked, meaning that the option in most browsers to not accept cookies does not affect Flash cookies. One way to view and control them is with browser extensions or add-ons. \n\nFlash cookies are unlike HTTP cookies in a sense that they are not transferred from the client back to the server. Web browsers read and write these cookies and can track any data by web usage.\n\nAlthough browsers such as Internet Explorer 8 and Firefox 3 have added a ‘Privacy Browsing’ setting, they still allow Flash cookies to track the user and operate fully. However, the Flash player browser plugin can be disabled or uninstalled, and Flash cookies can be disabled on a per-site or global basis. Adobe's Flash and (PDF) Reader are not the only browser plugins whose past security defects have allowed spyware or malware to be installed: there have also been problems with Oracle's Java. \n\nEvercookies, created by Samy Kamkar, are JavaScript-based applications which produce cookies in a web browser that actively \"resist\" deletion by redundantly copying themselves in different forms on the user's machine (e.g., Flash Local Shared Objects, various HTML5 storage mechanisms, window.name caching, etc.), and resurrecting copies that are missing or expired. Evercookie accomplishes this by storing the cookie data in several types of storage mechanisms that are available on the local browser. It has the ability to store cookies in over ten types of storage mechanisms so that once they are on one's computer they will never be gone. Additionally, if evercookie has found the user has removed any of the types of cookies in question, it recreates them using each mechanism available. Evercookies are one type of zombie cookie. However, modern browsers and anti-malware software can now block or detect and remove such cookies.\n\nSome anti-fraud companies have realized the potential of evercookies to protect against and catch cyber criminals. These companies already hide small files in several places on the perpetrator's computer but hackers can usually easily get rid of these. The advantage to evercookies is that they resist deletion and can rebuild themselves.\n\nThere is controversy over where the line should be drawn on the use of this technology. Cookies store unique identifiers on a person's computer that are used to predict what one wants. Many advertisement companies want to use this technology to track what their customers are looking at online. Evercookies enable advertisers to continue to track a customer regardless of if one deletes their cookies or not. Some companies are already using this technology but the ethics are still being widely debated.\n\nAnonymizer nevercookies are part of a free Firefox plugin that protects against evercookies. This plugin extends Firefox's private browsing mode so that users will be completely protected from evercookies. Nevercookies eliminate the entire manual deletion process while keeping the cookies users want like browsing history and saved account information.\n\nDevice fingerprinting is a fairly new technology that is useful in fraud prevention and safeguarding any information from one's computer. Device fingerprinting uses data from the device and browser sessions to determine the risk of conducting business with the person using the device. This technology allows companies to better assess the risks when business is conducted through sites that include, e-commerce sites, social networking and online dating sites and banks and other financial institutions. ThreatMetrix is one of the leading vendors of device fingerprinting. This company employs a number of techniques to prevent fraud. For example, ThreatMetrix will pierce the proxy to determine the true location of a device. Due to the growing number of hackers and fraudsters using 'botnets' of millions of computers that are being unknowingly controlled, this technology will help not only the companies at risk but the people who are unaware their computers are being used.\n\nIt is difficult to surf the web without being tracked by device fingerprinting today. However, for people who do not want device fingerprinting, there are ways to attempt to block fingerprinting. The only ways to stop device fingerprinting cause web browsing to be very slow and websites to display information incorrectly. “There are not convenient options for privacy when it comes to device fingerprinting” said Peter Eckersely a staff scientist at the Electronic Frontier Foundation and privacy-advocacy group. Trying to avoid device fingerprinting is mostly just impractical and inconvenient. Fingerprints are tough to avoid because they are taken from data that are routinely passed from computers to websites automatically. Even if someone changes something slightly, the fingerprinters can still recognize the machine. There is one way to figure out that a device is being fingerprinted. The software JavaScript can be used to collect fingerprinting data. If it asks a browser for specific information, that could be a clue that a fingerprinter is working. Companies that are most known for conducting fingerprinting are advertisers.\n\nSentinel Advanced Detection Analysis and Predator Tracking (A.D.A.P.T.) is device fingerprinting software technology that identifies the device (computer, tablet, smartphone, ...) being used to access a website. This information in turn can be used to help differentiate legitimate users from those using false identities or those attempting to work anonymously. A.D.A.P.T. uses only HTTP and JavaScript to identify a device and identifies devices without requesting any personal information entered directly by the user. It makes an accurate “fingerprint” of the device by using many different pieces of information including, operating system, browser, and PC characteristics. A.D.A.P.T. is concealed in that the user of the device has no idea that the device is being “fingerprinted” and there is no actual tagging of the device.\n\nCanvas fingerprinting is one of a number of browser fingerprinting techniques of tracking online users that allow websites to uniquely identify and track visitors using HTML5 canvas element instead of browser cookies or other similar means.\n\nToday many people have digital cameras and post their photographs online, for example street photography practitioners do so for artistic purposes and social documentary photography practitioners do so to document the common people in everyday life. The people depicted in these photos might not want to have them appear on the Internet. Police arrest photos, considered public record in many jurisdictions, are often posted on the internet by numerous online mug shot publishing sites.\n\nSome organizations attempt to respond to this privacy-related concern. For example, the 2005 Wikimania conference required that photographers have the prior permission of the people in their pictures, albeit this made it impossible for photographers to practice candid photography and doing the same in a public place would violate the photographers' free speech rights. Some people wore a 'no photos' tag to indicate they would prefer not to have their photo taken. \n\nThe \"Harvard Law Review\" published a short piece called \"In The Face of Danger: Facial Recognition and Privacy Law\", much of it explaining how \"privacy law, in its current form, is of no help to those unwillingly tagged.\" Any individual can be unwillingly tagged in a photo and displayed in a manner that might violate them personally in some way, and by the time Facebook gets to taking down the photo, many people will have already had the chance to view, share, or distribute it. Furthermore, traditional tort law does not protect people who are captured by a photograph in public because this is not counted as an invasion of privacy. The extensive Facebook privacy policy covers these concerns and much more. For example, the policy states that they reserve the right to disclose member information or share photos with companies, lawyers, courts, government entities, etc. if they feel it absolutely necessary. The policy also informs users that profile pictures are mainly to help friends connect to each other. However, these, as well as other pictures, can allow other people to invade a person's privacy by finding out information that can be used to track and locate a certain individual. In an article featured in ABC News, it was stated that two teams of scientists found out that Hollywood stars could be giving up information about their private whereabouts very easily through pictures uploaded to the Internet. Moreover, it was found that pictures taken by some phones and tablets including iPhones automatically attach the latitude and longitude of the picture taken through metadata unless this function is manually disabled.\n\nFace recognition technology can be used to gain access to a person's private data, according to a new study. Researchers at Carnegie Mellon University combined image scanning, cloud computing and public profiles from social network sites to identify individuals in the offline world. Data captured even included a user's social security number. Experts have warned of the privacy risks faced by the increased merging of our online and offline identities. The researchers have also developed an 'augmented reality' mobile app that can display personal data over a person's image captured on a smartphone screen. Since these technologies are widely available, our future identities may become exposed to anyone with a smartphone and an Internet connection. Researchers believe this could force us to reconsider our future attitudes to privacy.\n\nGoogle Street View, released in the U.S. in 2007, is currently the subject of an ongoing debate about possible infringement on individual privacy. In an article entitled “Privacy, Reconsidered: New Representations, Data Practices, and the Geoweb”, Sarah Elwood and Agnieszka Leszczynski (2011) argue that Google Street View “facilitate[s] identification and disclosure with more immediacy and less abstraction.” The medium through which Street View disseminates information, the photograph, is very immediate in the sense that it can potentially provide direct information and evidence about a person's whereabouts, activities, and private property. Moreover, the technology's disclosure of information about a person is less abstract in the sense that, if photographed, a person is represented on Street View in a virtual replication of his or her own real-life appearance. In other words, the technology removes abstractions of a person's appearance or that of his or her personal belongings – there is an immediate disclosure of the person and object, as they visually exist in real life. Although Street View began to blur license plates and people's faces in 2008, the technology is faulty and does not entirely ensure against accidental disclosure of identity and private property. Elwood and Leszczynski note that “many of the concerns leveled at Street View stem from situations where its photograph-like images were treated as definitive evidence of an individual’s involvement in particular activities.” In one instance, Ruedi Noser, a Swiss politician, barely avoided public scandal when he was photographed in 2009 on Google Street View walking with a woman who was not his wife – the woman was actually his secretary. Similar situations occur when Street View provides high-resolution photographs – and photographs hypothetically offer compelling objective evidence. But as the case of the Swiss politician illustrates, even supposedly compelling photographic evidence is sometimes subject to gross misinterpretation. This example further suggests that Google Street View may provide opportunities for privacy infringement and harassment through public dissemination of the photographs. Google Street View does, however, blur or remove photographs of individuals and private property from image frames if the individuals request further blurring and/or removal of the images. This request can be submitted, for review, through the “report a problem” button that is located on the bottom left-hand side of every image window on Google Street View, however, Google has made attempts to report a problem difficult by disabling the \"Why are you reporting the street view\" icon.\n\nSearch engines have the ability to track a user's searches. Personal information can be revealed through searches by the user's computer, account, or IP address being linked to the search terms used. Search engines have claimed a necessity to retain such information in order to provide better services, protect against security pressure, and protect against fraud.\nA search engine takes all of its users and assigns each one a specific ID number. Those in control of the database often keep records of where on the Internet each member has traveled to. AOL's system is one example. AOL has a database 21 million members deep, each with their own specific ID number. The way that AOLSearch is set up, however, allows for AOL to keep records of all the websites visited by any given member. Even though the true identity of the user isn’t known, a full profile of a member can be made just by using the information stored by AOLSearch. By keeping records of what people query through AOLSearch, the company is able to learn a great deal about them without knowing their names.\n\nSearch engines also are able to retain user information, such as location and time spent using the search engine, for up to ninety days. Most search engine operators use the data to get a sense of which needs must be met in certain areas of their field. People working in the legal field are also allowed to use information collected from these search engine websites. The Google search engine is given as an example of a search engine that retains the information entered for a period of three-fourths of a year before it becomes obsolete for public usage. Yahoo! follows in the footsteps of Google in the sense that it also deletes user information after a period of ninety days. Other search engines such as Ask! search engine has promoted a tool of \"AskEraser\" which essentially takes away personal information when requested.\nSome changes made to Internet search engines included that of Google's search engine. Beginning in 2009, Google began to run a new system where the Google search became personalized. The item that is searched and the results that are shown remembers previous information that pertains to the individual. Google search engine not only seeks what is searched, but also strives to allow the user to feel like the search engine recognizes their interests. This is achieved by using online advertising. A system that Google uses to filter advertisements and search results that might interest the user is by having a ranking system that tests relevancy that include observation of the behavior users exude while searching on Google. Another function of search engines is the predictability of location. Search engines are able to predict where one's location is currently by locating IP Addresses and geographical locations.\n\nGoogle had publicly stated on January 24, 2012, that its privacy policy will once again be altered. This new policy will change the following for its users: (1) the privacy policy will become shorter and easier to comprehend and (2) the information that users provide will be used in more ways than it is presently being used. The goal of Google is to make users’ experiences better than they currently are.\n\nThis new privacy policy is planned to come into effect on March 1, 2012. Peter Fleischer, the Global Privacy Counselor for Google, has explained that if a person is logged into his/her Google account, and only if he/she is logged in, information will be gathered from multiple Google services in which he/she has used in order to be more accommodating. Google's new privacy policy will combine all data used on Google's search engines (i.e., YouTube and Gmail) in order to work along the lines of a person's interests. A person, in effect, will be able to find what he/she wants at a more efficient rate because all searched information during times of login will help to narrow down new search results.\n\nGoogle's privacy policy explains information they collect and why they collect it, how they use the information, and how to access and update information. Google will collect information to better service its users such as their language, which ads they find useful or people that are important to them online. Google announces they will use this information to provide, maintain, protect Google and its users. The information Google uses will give users more relevant search results and advertisements. The new privacy policy explains that Google can use shared information on one service in other Google services from people who have a Google account and are logged in. Google will treat a user as a single user across all of their products. Google claims the new privacy policy will benefit its users by being simpler. Google will, for example, be able to correct the spelling of a user's friend's name in a Google search or notify a user they are late based on their calendar and current location. Even though Google is updating their privacy policy, its core privacy guidelines will not change. For example, Google does not sell personal information or share it externally.\n\nUsers and public officials have raised many concerns regarding Google's new privacy policy. The main concern/issue involves the sharing of data from multiple sources. Because this policy gathers all information and data searched from multiple engines when logged into Google, and uses it to help assist users, privacy becomes an important element. Public officials and Google account users are worried about online safety because of all this information being gathered from multiple sources.\n\nSome users do not like the overlapping privacy policy, wishing to keep the service of Google separate. The update to Google's privacy policy has alarmed both public and private sectors. The European Union has asked Google to delay the onset of the new privacy policy in order to ensure that it does not violate E.U. law. This move is in accordance with objections to decreasing online privacy raised in other foreign nations where surveillance is more heavily scrutinized. Canada and Germany have both held investigations into the legality of both Facebook, against respective privacy acts, in 2010. The new privacy policy only heightens unresolved concerns regarding user privacy.\n\nAn additional feature of concern to the new Google privacy policy is the nature of the policy. One must accept all features or delete existing Google accounts. The update will affect the Google+ social network, therefore making Google+’s settings uncustomizable, unlike other customizable social networking sites. Customizing the privacy settings of a social network is a key tactic that many feel is necessary for social networking sites. This update in the system has some Google+ users wary of continuing service. Additionally, some fear the sharing of data amongst Google services could lead to revelations of identities. Many using pseudonyms are concerned about this possibility, and defend the role of pseudonyms in literature and history.\n\nSome solutions to being able to protect user privacy on the Internet can include programs such as \"Rapleaf\" which is a website that has a search engine that allows users to make all of one's search information and personal information private. Other websites that also give this option to their users are Facebook and Amazon.\n\nSearch engines such as Startpage.com, Disconnect.me and Scroogle (defunct since 2012) anonymize Google searches. Some of the most notable Privacy-focused search-engines are:\n\n\nThe advent of the Web 2.0 has caused social profiling and is a growing concern for Internet privacy. Web 2.0 is the system that facilitates participatory information sharing and collaboration on the Internet, in social networking media websites like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and MySpace. These social networking sites have seen a boom in their popularity starting from the late 2000s. Through these websites many people are giving their personal information out on the internet.\n\nIt has been a topic of discussion of who is held accountable for the collection and distribution of personal information. Some will say that it is the fault of the social networks because they are the ones who are storing the vast amounts of information and data, but others claim that it is the users who are responsible for the issue because it is the users themselves that provide the information in the first place. This relates to the ever-present issue of how society regards social media sites. There is a growing number of people that are discovering the risks of putting their personal information online and trusting a website to keep it private. Yet in a recent study, researchers found that young people are taking measures to keep their posted information on Facebook private to some degree. Examples of such actions include managing their privacy settings so that certain content can be visible to \"Only Friends\" and ignoring Facebook friend requests from strangers.\n\nIn 2013 a class action lawsuit was filed against Facebook alleging the company scanned user messages for web links, translating them to “likes” on the user's Facebook profile. Data lifted from the private messages was then used for targeted advertising, the plaintiffs claimed. \"Facebook's practice of scanning the content of these messages violates the federal Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA also referred to as the Wiretap Act), as well as California's Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA), and section 17200 of California's Business and Professions Code,\" the plaintiffs said. This shows that once information is online it is no longer completely private. It is an increasing risk because younger people are having easier internet access than ever before, therefore they put themselves in a position where it is all too easy for them to upload information, but they may not have the caution to consider how difficult it can be to take that information down once it is out in the open. This is becoming a bigger issue now that so much of society interacts online which was not the case fifteen years ago. In addition, because of the quickly evolving digital media arena, people's interpretation of privacy is evolving as well, and it is important to consider that when interacting online. New forms of social networking and digital media such as Instagram and Snapchat may call for new guidelines regarding privacy. What makes this difficult is the wide range of opinions surrounding the topic, so it is left mainly up to our judgement to respect other people's online privacy in some circumstances. Sometimes it may be necessary to take extra precautions in situations where somebody else may have a tighter view on privacy ethics. No matter the situation it is beneficial to know about the potential consequences and issues that can come from careless activity on social networks.\n\nInternet users obtain Internet access through an Internet service provider (ISP). All data transmitted to and from users must pass through the ISP. Thus, an ISP has the potential to observe users' activities on the Internet.\n\nHowever, ISPs are usually prohibited from participating in such activities due to legal, ethical, business, or technical reasons.\n\nNormally ISPs do collect at least \"some\" information about the consumers using their services. From a privacy standpoint, ISPs would ideally collect only as much information as they require in order to provide Internet connectivity (IP address, billing information if applicable, etc.).\n\nWhich information an ISP collects, what it does with that information, and whether it informs its consumers, pose significant privacy issues. Beyond the usage of collected information typical of third parties, ISPs sometimes state that they will make their information available to government authorities upon request. In the US and other countries, such a request does not necessarily require a warrant.\n\nAn ISP cannot know the contents of properly-encrypted data passing between its consumers and the Internet. For encrypting web traffic, https has become the most popular and best-supported standard. Even if users encrypt the data, the ISP still knows the IP addresses of the sender and of the recipient. (However, see the IP addresses section for workarounds.)\n\nAn Anonymizer such as I2P – The Anonymous Network or Tor can be used for accessing web services without them knowing one's IP address and without one's ISP knowing what the services are that one accesses. Additional software has been developed that may provide more secure and anonymous alternatives to other applications. For example, Bitmessage can be used as an alternative for email and Cryptocat as an alternative for online chat. On the other hand, in addition to End-to-End encryption software, there are web services such as Qlink which provide privacy through a novel security protocol which does not require installing any software.\n\nWhile signing up for internet services, each computer contains a unique IP, Internet Protocol address. This particular address will not give away private or personal information, however, a weak link could potentially reveal information from one's ISP.\n\nGeneral concerns regarding Internet user privacy have become enough of a concern for a UN agency to issue a report on the dangers of identity fraud. In 2007, the Council of Europe held its first annual Data Protection Day on January 28, which has since evolved into the annual Data Privacy Day.\n\nT-Mobile USA doesn't store any information on web browsing. Verizon Wireless keeps a record of the websites a subscriber visits for up to a year. Virgin Mobile keeps text messages for three months. Verizon keeps text messages for three to five days. None of the other carriers keep texts of messages at all, but they keep a record of who texted who for over a year. AT&T Mobility keeps for five to seven years a record of who text messages who and the date and time, but not the content of the messages. Virgin Mobile keeps that data for two to three months.\n\nHTML5 is the latest version of Hypertext Markup Language specification. HTML defines how user agents, such as web browsers, are to present websites based upon their underlying code. This new web standard changes the way that users are affected by the internet and their privacy on the internet. HTML5 expands the number of methods given to a website to store information locally on a client as well as the amount of data that can be stored. As such, privacy risks are increased. For instance, merely erasing cookies may not be enough to remove potential tracking methods since data could be mirrored in web storage, another means of keeping information in a user's web browser. There are so many sources of data storage that it is challenging for web browsers to present sensible privacy settings. As the power of web standards increases, so do potential misuses.\n\nHTML5 also expands access to user media, potentially granting access to a computer's microphone or webcam, a capability previously only possible through the use of plug-ins like Flash. It is also possible to find a user's geographical location using the geolocation API. With this expanded access comes increased potential for abuse as well as more vectors for attackers. If a malicious site was able to gain access to a user's media, it could potentially use recordings to uncover sensitive information thought to be unexposed. However, the World Wide Web Consortium, responsible for many web standards, feels that the increased capabilities of the web platform outweigh potential privacy concerns. They state that by documenting new capabilities in an open standardization process, rather than through closed source plug-ins made by companies, it is easier to spot flaws in specifications and cultivate expert advice.\n\nBesides elevating privacy concerns, HTML5 also adds a few tools to enhance user privacy. A mechanism is defined whereby user agents can share blacklists of domains that should not be allowed to access web storage. Content Security Policy is a proposed standard whereby sites may assign privileges to different domains, enforcing harsh limitations on JavaScript use to mitigate cross-site scripting attacks. HTML5 also adds HTML templating and a standard HTML parser which replaces the various parsers of web browser vendors. These new features formalize previously inconsistent implementations, reducing the number of vulnerabilities though not eliminating them entirely.\n\nBig Data is generally defined as the rapid accumulation and compiling of massive amounts of information that is being exchanged over digital communication systems. The data is large (often exceeding exabytes) and cannot be handled by conventional computer processors, and are instead stored on large server-system databases. This information is assessed by analytic scientists using software programs; which paraphrase this information into multi-layered user trends and demographics. This information is collected from all around the Internet, such as by popular services like Facebook, Google, Apple, Spotify or GPS systems. \nBig Data provides companies with the ability to:\n\n\n\"Inc.\" magazine reports that the Internet's biggest corporations have hoarded Internet users' personal data and sold it for large financial profits. The magazine reports on a band of startup companies that are demanding privacy and aiming to overhaul the social-media business, such as Wickr, a mobile messaging app, described as using peer-to-peer encryption and giving the user the capacity to control what information is retained on the other end;   Ansa, an ephemeral chat application, also described as employing peer-to-peer encryption;   and Omlet, an open mobile social network, described as giving the user control over their data so that if a user does not want their data saved, they are able to delete it from the data repository.\n\nAccording to Nicklas Lundblad, another perspective on privacy protection is the assumption that the quickly growing amount of information produced will be beneficial. The reasons for this are that the costs for the surveillance will raise and that there is more noise, noise being understood as anything that interferes the process of a receiver trying to extract private data from a sender.\n\nIn this noise society, the collective expectation of privacy will increase, but the individual expectation of privacy will decrease. In other words, not everyone can be analyzed in detail, but one individual can be. Also, in order to stay unobserved, it can hence be better to blend in with the others than trying to use for example encryption technologies and similar methods. Technologies for this can be called Jante-technologies after the Law of Jante, which states that you are nobody special.\nThis view offers new challenges and perspectives for the privacy discussion.\n\nWhile internet privacy is widely acknowledged as the top consideration in any online interaction, as evinced by the public outcry over SOPA/CISPA, public understanding of online privacy policies is actually being negatively affected by the current trends regarding online privacy statements. Users have a tendency to skim internet privacy policies for information regarding the distribution of personal information only, and the more legalistic the policies appear, the less likely users are to even read the information. Coupling this with the increasingly exhaustive license agreements companies require consumers to agree to before using their product, consumers are reading less about their rights.\n\nFurthermore, if the user has already done business with a company, or is previously familiar with a product, they have a tendency to not read the privacy policies that the company has posted. As internet companies become more established, their policies may change, but their clients will be less likely to inform themselves of the change. This tendency is interesting because as consumers become more acquainted with the internet they are also more likely to be interested in online privacy. Finally, consumers have been found to avoid reading the privacy policies if the policies are not in a simple format, and even perceive these policies to be irrelevant. The less readily available terms and conditions are, the less likely the public is to inform themselves of their rights regarding the service they are using.\n\nWhile dealing with the issue of internet privacy, one must first be concerned with not only the technological implications such as damaged property, corrupted files, and the like, but also with the potential for implications on their real lives. One such implication, which is rather commonly viewed as being one of the most daunting fears risks of the Internet, is the potential for identity theft. Although it is a typical belief that larger companies and enterprises are the usual focus of identity thefts, rather than individuals, recent reports seem to show a trend opposing this belief. Specifically, it was found in a 2007 “Internet Security Threat Report” that roughly ninety-three percent of “gateway” attacks were targeted at unprepared home users. It should be noted that the term “gateway” attack was used to refer to attack which aimed not at stealing data immediately, but rather at gaining access for future attacks.\n\nBut how, one might ask, is this still thriving given the increasing emphasis on internet security? The simple, but unfortunate solution, according to Symantec's “Internet Security Threat Report”, is that of the expanding “underground economy”. With more than fifty percent of the supporting servers located in the United States, this “underground economy” has become a haven for internet thieves, who use the system in order to sell stolen information. These pieces of information can range from generic things such as a user account or email to something as personal as a bank account number and PIN.\n\nWhile the processes these internet thieves use are abundant and unique, one popular trap unsuspecting people fall into is that of online purchasing. This is not to allude to the idea that every purchase one makes online will leave them susceptible to identity theft, but rather that it increases the chances. In fact, in a 2001 article titled “Consumer Watch”, the popular online site PC World went as far as calling secure e-shopping a myth. Though unlike the “gateway” attacks mentioned above, these incidents of information being stolen through online purchases generally are more prevalent in medium to large sized e-commerce sites, rather than smaller individualized sites. This is assumed to be a result of the larger consumer population and purchases, which allow for more potential leeway with information.\n\nUltimately, however, the potential for a violation of one's privacy is typically out of their hands after purchasing from an online “e-tailer” or store. One of the most common forms in which hackers receive private information from online “e-tailers” actually comes from an attack placed upon the site's servers responsible for maintaining information about previous transactions. For as experts explain, these “e-tailers” are not doing nearly enough to maintain or improve their security measures. Even those sites that clearly present a privacy or security policy can be subject to hackers’ havoc as most policies only rely upon encryption technology which only apply to the actual transfer of a customer's data. However, with this being said, most “e-tailers” have been making improvements, going as far as covering some of the credit card fees if the information's abuse can be tracked back to the site's servers.\n\nAs one of the largest growing concerns American adults have of current Internet privacy policies, identity and credit theft remain a constant figure in the debate surrounding privacy online. A 1997 study by the Boston Consulting Group showed that participants of the study were most concerned about their privacy on the Internet compared to any other media. However, it is important to recall that these issues are not the only prevalent concerns our society has. Though some may call it a modern-day version of McCarthyism, another prevalent issue also remains members of our own society sending disconcerting emails to one another. It is for this reason in 2001 that for one of the first times ever the public demonstrated an approval of government intervention in their private lives.\n\nWith the overall public anxiety regarding the constantly expanding trend of online crimes, in 2001 roughly fifty-four percent of Americans polled showed a general approval for the FBI monitoring those emails deemed suspicious. Thus, it was born the idea for the FBI program: “Carnivore”, which was going to be used as a searching method, allowing the FBI to hopefully home in on potential criminals. Unlike the overall approval of the FBI's intervention, “Carnivore” was not met with as much of a majority's approval. Rather, the public seemed to be divided with forty-five percent siding in its favor, forty-five percent opposed to the idea for its ability to potentially interfere with ordinary citizen's messages, and ten percent claiming indifference. While this may seem slightly tangent to the topic of internet privacy, it is important to consider that at the time of this poll, the general population's approval on government actions was declining, reaching thirty-one percent versus the forty-one percent it held a decade prior. This figure in collaboration with the majority's approval of FBI intervention demonstrates an emerging emphasis on the issue of internet privacy in society and more importantly, the potential implications it may hold on citizens’ lives.\n\nOnline users must seek to protect the information they share with online websites, specifically social media. In today's Web 2.0 individuals have become the public producers of personal information. We create our own digital trails that hackers and companies alike capture and utilize for a variety of marketing and advertisement targeting. A recent paper from the Rand Corporation claims \"privacy is not the opposite of sharing – rather, it is control over sharing.\" Internet privacy concerns arise from our surrender of personal information to engage in a variety of acts, from transactions to commenting in online forums. Protections against invasions of online privacy will require individuals to make an effort informing and protecting themselves via existing software solutions, to pay premiums for such protections or require individuals to place greater pressure on governing institutions to enforce privacy laws and regulations regarding consumer and personal information.\n\nGoogle has long been attacked for their lack of privacy in the U.S. as well as abroad. In 2007, however, the tables began to turn. Peter Fleischer, a Google representative, addressed the U.N. in France regarding privacy issues and expressed that the current international privacy policies were not adequately protecting consumers. Instead of continuing to enforce broken and ineffective Internet privacy laws, the Google representative proposed that the United Nations establish a global privacy policy that would efficiently protect consumers privacy while causing the least possible amount of negative impact on web browsers such as Google. At that time, Google was under investigation by the European Union for violating the global privacy policies that were already in place.\nThe greatest issue related to Internet privacy internationally is that of data collection. At this point in time, the U.S. and the European Union had separate sets of privacy policies, making it increasingly difficult for companies such as Google to exist globally without violating such policies. Google is just one example of a large company whose primary goal is to make money by serving their product, web browsing, to consumers. Consumers, however, are concerned with the quality of that product and their privacy. Online data collection by search engines allows Internet businesses to track consumer's online roadmap, everything from the sites they visit to the purchases they make. This poses problems globally to those who are web users around the world, especially in a world where there is no overarching privacy policy. The general consensus of this issue regarding international privacy violations at the time of Fleischer's U.N. address is that, since the Internet is global, the privacy policies should also be global and unified.\n\nCurrently, as of March 2012, the need for a set of unified privacy policies has been met by the European Union with proposed legislation. The General Data Protection Regulation is a proposed set of consistent regulations across the European Union that will protect Internet users from clandestine tracking and unauthorized personal data usage. This regulation will further protect users' privacy rights in two key ways: clearly defining the term “personal data” and increasing punishments for those who violate users' online privacy. In Article 4(2) of the proposed legislation, the definition of personal data is expanded significantly to include any information online that could be traced to an individual. In Articles 77 and 79 of the proposed legislation, appropriate punishments are outlined for many possible violations of users' privacy rights by controllers and effective enforcement of data protection is guaranteed. The Data Protection Regulation will also hold companies accountable for violations of the regulation by implementing a unified legislation outlining specific repercussions for various types of violations based on severity.\nThe CDT, the Center for Democracy & Technology, has carefully evaluated this proposed legislation in detail and officially issued an analysis on March 28, 2012. The Center for Democracy & Technology is a nonprofit organization that advocates for Internet freedom and online privacy through government public policy. Analyses such as this interpret the governmental propositions for Internet users and promote democracy by allowing all the opportunity to agree or disagree with the proposition prior to its ruling. This analysis is posted publicly on the Internet, in compliance with the mission of CDT, and addresses each section of the Data Protection Regulation and the potential pitfalls of each article. The two major issues the CDT addresses in this analysis of the Data Protection Regulation are the inflexible rules against profiling users based on their Internet usage and the parental consent policy in regards to controlling the online information of children.\n\nOne of the most popular topics of discussion in regards to Internet privacy is China. Although China is known for its remarkable reputation on maintaining Internet privacy among many online users, it could potentially be a major jeopardy to the lives of many online users who have their information exchanged on the web on a regular basis. For instance, in China, there is a new software that will enable the concept of surveillance among the majority of online users and present a risk to their privacy. The main concern with privacy of Internet users in China is the lack thereof. China has a well known policy of censorship when it comes to the spread of information through public media channels. Censorship has been prominent in Mainland China since the communist party gained power in China over 60 years ago. With the development of the Internet, however, privacy became more of a problem for the government. The Chinese Government has been accused of actively limiting and editing the information that flows into the country via various media. The Internet poses a particular set of issues for this type of censorship, especially when search engines are involved. Yahoo! for example, encountered a problem after entering China in the mid-2000s. A Chinese journalist, who was also a Yahoo! user, sent private emails using the Yahoo! server regarding the Chinese government. The Chinese staff of Yahoo! intercepted these emails and sent the journalist's reportedly bad impression of the country to the Chinese government, which in turn sentenced the journalist to ten years in prison. These types of occurrences have been reported numerous times and have been criticized by foreign entities such as the creators of the Tor anonymity network, which was designed to circumvent network surveillance in multiple countries.\nUser privacy in China is not as cut-and-dry as it is in other parts of the world. China, reportedly, has a much more invasive policy when Internet activity involves the Chinese government. For this reason, search engines are under constant pressure to conform to Chinese rules and regulations on censorship while still attempting to keep their integrity. Therefore, most search engines operate differently in China than in the other countries, such as the US or Britain, if they operate in China at all. There are two types of intrusions that occur in China regarding the internet: the alleged intrusion of the company providing users with Internet service, and the alleged intrusion of the Chinese government. The intrusion allegations made against companies providing users with Internet service are based upon reports that companies, such as Yahoo! in the previous example, are using their access to the internet users' private information to track and monitor users' Internet activity. Additionally, there have been reports that personal information has been sold. For example, students preparing for exams would receive calls from unknown numbers selling school supplies. The claims made against the Chinese government lies in the fact that the government is forcing Internet-based companies to track users private online data without the user knowing that they are being monitored. Both alleged intrusions are relatively harsh and possibly force foreign Internet service providers to decide if they value the Chinese market over internet privacy. Also, many websites are blocked in China such as Facebook and Twitter. However many Chinese internet users use special methods like a VPN to unblock websites that are blocked.\n\nSweden is often considered to be at the forefront of Internet use and Internet regulations. On 11 May 1973 Sweden enacted the Data Act − the world's first national data protection law. They are constantly innovating the way that the Internet is used and how it impacts their people. In 2012, Sweden received a Web Index Score of 100, a score that measures how the Internet significantly influences political, social, and economic impact, placing them first among 61 other nations. Sweden received this score while in the process of exceeding new mandatory implementations from the European Union. Sweden placed more restrictive guidelines on the directive on intellectual property rights enforcement (IPRED) and passed the FRA-law in 2009 that allowed for the legal sanctioning of surveillance of internet traffic by state authorities. The FRA has a history of intercepting radio signals and has stood as the main intelligence agency in Sweden since 1942. Sweden is an interesting topic when discussing Laws and Regulations of Internet Privacy because of mixture of their government's strong push towards implementing policy and their citizens continued perception of a free and neutral Internet. Both of the previously mentioned additions created controversy by critics but they did not change the public perception even though the new FRA-law was brought in front of the European Court of Human Rights for human rights violations. The law was established by the National Defense Radio Establishment (Forsvarets Radio Anstalt - FRA) to eliminate outside threats. However, the law also allowed for authorities to monitor all cross-border communication without a warrant. Sweden's recent emergence into Internet dominance may be explained by their recent climb in users. Only 2% of all Swedes were connected to the Internet in 1995 but at last count in 2012, 89% had broadband access. This was due in large part once again to the active Swedish government introducing regulatory provisions to promote competition among Internet Service Providers. These regulations helped grow web-infrastructure and forced prices below the European average. To add to the intrigue around Sweden's laws and regulations, one must also mention how copyright laws evolved in Sweden. Sweden was the birthplace of the Pirate Bay, an infamous file-sharing website. File sharing has been illegal in Sweden since it was developed, however, there was never any real fear of being persecuted for the crime until 2009 when the Swedish Parliament was the first in the European Union to pass the intellectual property rights directive. This directive persuaded internet service providers to announce the identity of suspected violators. A final piece of legislation worth mentioning when discussing Sweden's regulations is the infamous centralized block list. The list is generated by authorities and was originally crafted to eliminate sites hosting child pornography. However, there is no legal way to appeal a site that ends up on the list and as a result, many non-child pornography sites have been blacklisted. It is important to consider that Sweden's government enjoys a high level of trust from their citizens. Without this trust, many of these regulations would not be possible and thus many of these regulations may only be feasible in the Swedish context.\n\nWith the Republicans in control of all three branches of the U.S. government, lobbyists for Internet service providers (ISPs) and tech firms persuaded lawmakers to dismantle regulations to protect privacy which had been made during the Obama administration. These FCC rules had required ISPs to get \"explicit consent\" before gathering and selling their private Internet information, such as the consumers' browsing histories, locations of businesses visited and applications used. Trade groups wanted to be able to sell this information for profit. Lobbyists persuaded Republican senator Jeff Flake and Republican representative Marsha Blackburn to sponsor legislation to dismantle Internet privacy rules; Flake received $22,700 in donations and Blackburn received $20,500 in donations from these trade groups. On March 23, 2017, abolition of these privacy protections passed on a narrow party-line vote. In June 2018, California passed the law restricting companies from sharing user data without permission. Also, users would be informed to whom the data is being sold and why. On refusal to sell the data, companies are allowed to charge a little higher to these consumers.\n\nUsed by government agencies are array of technologies designed to track and gather Internet users' information are the topic of much debate between privacy advocates, civil liberties advocates and those who believe such measures are necessary for law enforcement to keep pace with rapidly changing communications technology.\n\nSpecific examples:\n\nInternet privacy is a growing concern with children and the content they are able to view. Aside from that, many concerns for the privacy of email, the vulnerability of internet users to have their internet usage tracked, and the collection of personal information also exist. These concerns have began to bring the issues of internet privacy before the courts and judges. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18018984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18018984", "title": "Joint Committee on Consolidation, &amp;c., Bills", "text": "Joint Committee on Consolidation, &amp;c., Bills\n\nThe Joint Committee on Consolidation, &c., Bills is a joint select committee of the House of Commons and House of Lords in the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The Committee was first established in 1894 with a remit to consider consolidation bills. The Committee, which also considers Statute Law Revision Bills and bills prepared by the Law Commission or Scottish Law Commission to repeal outdated laws, is made up of 12 of each House. Bills considered by the Committee originate in the Lords and are referred to it after second reading. After the Committee reports, the remaining stages in both Houses proceed formally (i.e., without debate).\n\nAs of 16 May 2012, the members of the committee are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "4848615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4848615", "title": "Kerry Committee report", "text": "Kerry Committee report\n\nThe Kerry Committee report, formally titled Drugs, Law Enforcement and Foreign Policy, was the final report of an investigation by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Narcotics, and International Operations. The report examined the problems that drug cartels and drug money laundering in South and Central America and the Caribbean posed for American law enforcement and foreign policy. The Sub-Committee was chaired at the time by Senator John Kerry, so that the report is often referred to under his name. \n\nThe report was released on April 13, 1989, and included discussions of drug trafficking in the Bahamas, Colombia, Cuba and Nicaragua, Haiti, Honduras, and Panama. The longest chapter in the report was on narcotics trafficking and the Nicaraguan Contras. The Subcommittee \"did not find that Contra leaders were personally involved in drug trafficking,\" but it did find \"substantial evidence\" of drug smuggling by \"individual Contras, Contra suppliers, Contra pilots, mercenaries who worked with the Contras, and Contra supporters.\"\n\nPress accounts concerning links between the Contras and drug traffickers, which began with a December 1985 story by the Associated Press, led to a review by the United States Department of State, U.S. Department of Justice and relevant U.S. intelligence agencies in 1986. In April 1986, the State Department informed Congress that it had \"evidence of a limited number of incidents in which known drug traffickers tried to establish connections with Nicaraguan resistance groups.\"\n\nIn April 1986, John Kerry and Senator Christopher Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut, proposed that hearings be conducted by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee regarding charges of Contra involvement in cocaine and marijuana trafficking. Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, the Republican chairman of the committee, agreed to conduct the hearings.\n\nThe Kerry Committee report found that \"the Contra drug links included \"... Payments to drug traffickers by the U.S. State Department of funds authorized by the Congress for humanitarian assistance to the Contras, in some cases after the traffickers had been indicted by federal law enforcement agencies on drug charges, in others while traffickers were under active investigation by these same agencies.\" The US State Department paid over $806,000 to known drug traffickers to carry humanitarian assistance to the Contras.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56089524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56089524", "title": "King County District Court Regional Veterans Court", "text": "King County District Court Regional Veterans Court\n\nThe King County District Court Regional Veterans Court is the veterans court component of King County District Court, Washington's largest court of limited jurisdiction, including the city of Seattle. The regional court was established in June 2012, and was intended to divert nonviolent veterans to mental health and drug treatment programs. By September 2014, the court had served over 50 veterans.\n\nState senator Manka Dhingra helped create the court when she worked for the county prosector's office.\n"}
{"id": "18695223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18695223", "title": "Latvian constitutional referendum, 2008", "text": "Latvian constitutional referendum, 2008\n\nA constitutional referendum to amend the constitution of Latvia in order to allow one-tenth of the total registered electorate to initiate a popular referendum to dissolve the Latvian parliament was held in Latvia on 2 August 2008.\n\nThe referendum on this issue was triggered when the Government of Latvia voted against an opposition motion to adopt this change to the constitution, which resulted in a referendum in Latvia by law. President Valdis Zatlers and the left-wing opposition were in favour of the referendum, while the government was against it, arguing that it would cause even more instability in a country which has seen 13 governments in the 18 years since independence. At least half of the total registered electorate (i.e. more than 757,607) had to approve the referendum proposal in order for it to be valid.\n\nPreliminary results indicated that an overwhelming 96% of voters had voted in favour of the amendment, although only about 40% of the electorate voted in favour, which means the referendum is invalid. It is expected that the strong result, while failing to directly change the constitution, might press politicians to adopt a similar measure nonetheless.\n\nIf passed, the amendment would have represented the first time in an EU country that voters would have been able to dissolve their national parliament - a right traditionally reserved for the head of state.\n\nThe moves to initiate the referendum began in Autumn 2007 at a time of public discontent with the government which had led to the largest street protests to date in the post-Soviet era.\n\nThe movement to organise the referendum was led by the Free Trade Union Confederation of Latvia. The referendum also took place at a time of poor economic indicators with inflation exceeding 17 percent and economic growth expected to fall to near zero.\n\nUnder the ‘Latvian Law on National Referendums and Legislative Initiatives’, the procedure on calling popular referendums has several stages. The first stage involves the collection of 10,000 signatures certified by notaries, which are then presented to the Latvian Central Election Commission (CEC). Following positive verification of these signatures, the Latvian Government must then provide facilities for signature gathering in every town and village in the country, to enable the population to sign in favour of a proposal for a referendum.\n\nIn order to be successful, more than one-tenth of citizens eligible to vote in the previous parliamentary elections must sign in favour. Again, the signatures are verified by the CEC. If the 10% threshold is met, then the draft amendments are presented to the president who submits them to parliament for approval. If two thirds of MPs approve the changes at a sitting in which at least two thirds of the parliament is present then the changes are passed into law without the need for a referendum. If parliament rejects the laws, then a referendum is held.\n\nIn the event, 11,095 signatures were initially collected and positively verified. Collection of further signatures then took place from March 12 to April 10, 2008 in 660 designated places, of which 40 were abroad. In total, counting the initial signatures, 217,567 voters supported the introduction of the draft amendments. A further 6,814 signatures were disqualified. In the vast majority of cases this was due to citizens signing more than once. However, 35 were disqualified due to not being Latvian citizens, 22 on the grounds of insanity, 62 who were deceased or could not be identified and 1 person who was under the age of 18 upon signing.\n\nAs the total number of valid signatures represented 14.6% of the electorate, the amendments were duly presented by the president to parliament, which rejected them on 5 June 2008. Accordingly, under the terms of the referendum law, a referendum had to be held not earlier than one month and not later than two months after rejection.\n\nOpposing the referendum, Prime Minister Ivars Godmanis pointed out that political instability had also been a feature of pre-Soviet Latvia. He also argued that “Electing the parliament is a creative process, while a referendum would be a destructive process without any result.\" Parliamentary speaker Gundars Daudze argued that such referendums could create a huge crisis with neither parliament nor president operating. Meanwhile, the head of the People's Party in parliament, Māris Kučinskis, stated his belief that such referendums would allow a small number of people to change the election results. The advertisements of the no campaign also played on fears of Russian influence, with one advertisement, illustrated by pictures of ethnic Russian politicians from the opposition left wing parties playing a balalaika in a sauna, declaring “If you vote tomorrow, then you, brother, are crazy. In our places, the Russians will come. The Russians will come.” \n\nFormer Prime Minister Einars Repše, a member of the opposition New Era party, argued that a yes vote of the majority of the electorate would be in accordance with basic democratic principles and that many contemporary Latvian politicians were working not for the state interest but for the interest of “Godfathers.” Civic Union party leader Sandra Kalniete also called for a yes vote on the grounds that the amendments could force MPs “to finally listen to the will of their voters.” For Human Rights in United Latvia MP Juris Sokolovskis supported a yes vote on the basis of perceived alienation of the electorate from their MPs and on the grounds that, even if the 50% quorum was not reached, a large yes majority would still be difficult for politicians to ignore.\n\nFollowing the anticipated large yes vote, President Valdis Zatlers said the support shown was strong enough to prompt Parliament to adopt similar amendments on its own. \"The rights of the people to dissolve the Parliament have to be included in the Constitution as soon as possible,\" Zatlers was quoted as saying by local news agency BNS. \"If 40% want that, the duty of the Parliament is making it possible.\" \n"}
{"id": "4773762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4773762", "title": "List of law schools in Massachusetts", "text": "List of law schools in Massachusetts\n\nThis is a list of law schools in Massachusetts, arranged in alphabetical order.\n\nIn addition, Tufts University has a school of \"Law and Diplomacy\", which, besides offering M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in Law and Diplomacy (international affairs), offers an LL.M. in international law.\n\n"}
{"id": "10203988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10203988", "title": "Loss of use", "text": "Loss of use\n\nLoss of use is the inability, due to a tort or other injury to use a body part, animal, equipment, premises, or other property. Law.com defines it as \"the inability to use an automobile, premises or some equipment due to damage to the vehicle, premises or articles caused by the negligence or other wrongdoing of another.\"\n\nUnder workers' compensation law, a schedule loss of use is the set amount of compensation an employee may receive for the inability to use a particular body member, such as an arm, hand, finger, leg, foot, or toe. An injured employee will receive monetary benefits for the loss of use of such a body member during periods of temporary disability associated therewith, and/or at the time a judicial finding is made of permanent impairment. These monetary benefits are in addition to other benefits for compensation such as medical benefits. An essential basis for calculating a Schedule Loss of Use (\"SLU\") is often a multiple of the injured employee's pre-injury average weekly wage, or some percentage thereof, as determined by a state's Workers' Compensation Law. This wage information is utilized in conjunction with a medical assessment by an evaluating physician, together with a schedule which standardizes the value of particular injuries. This standardization is necessary to ensure Equal Protection while applying a Workers' Compensation scheme. The physician's loss assessment is converted to a period of weeks, utilizing the schedule published in law, and then this number of weeks is multiplied by the wage basis to determine the total value of the SLU. Due to the complexity of the calculations involved in determining an SLU, it may be useful to utilize an SLU calculator, such as may be provided on legal, public service, academic, or informational websites. \nThe etymology of tort is from the French word for twisted—as in wrongful, trespassing, sick, perverted, or disturbed. Unlike in other aspects of tort law, rather than being figurative, the meaning is sometimes literal, whereby a worker's arm has been twisted by machinery, and is rendered useless for work.\n\nUnder property law, almost any possible property can be the subject of loss of use. This might include equipment, goods, inventory, a residence, a farm, a motor vehicle, office building, or commercial property. For example, the real property can not be used due to a chemical spill, or the car can not be driven because it was damaged in a motor vehicle accident.\n\nWhen business equipment is damaged the injured business is entitled to a loss of use claim for the damaged property. In the trucking industry this is often referred to as downtime. Downtime claims indemnify for loss of earnings resulting from inability to operate because of damage to a tractor or trailer from an insured peril such as a collision or a fire. These claims can be made against the adverse party’s insurance policy. The loss must be established by presenting the previous income for the damaged equipment. \n\nInsurance companies may use various formulas to calculate downtime losses. A common method is to determine gross income for 90 days before the accident, then subtract all variable expenses such as fuel, tolls, oil, etc. to figure a net income amount. Next, divide net income by the days actually driven during the 90 days before the truck was disabled in order to get a daily net loss figure. Finally, multiply the daily income times the number of days the truck is in the repair shop to arrive at your lost income amount.\n\nCar rental companies charge renters for loss of use in case of accidents, though the charges have been controversial. Insurers want to see the rental company's fleet utilization logs. If the rental company had other unused similar cars at the time, insurers argue the rental company suffered no loss from the unavailability of the damaged car. The Florida Supreme Court supported that interpretation in 2008. The Colorado Supreme Court disagreed, saying a car rental company (originally National) was \"entitled to recover loss of use damages irrespective of its actual lost profits\" in 2012. California, New York, and some other states restrict loss of use charges\n\nSome rental company terms say they will \"charge for loss of use, regardless of fleet utilization\" (Alamo, Avis, Hertz—adding the words in October 2016, National). \n\nA property owner may purchase insurance to indemnify against the loss of use of property, especially real property, such as a home, office, or business premises.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "107765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=107765", "title": "Mammoth Lakes, California", "text": "Mammoth Lakes, California\n\nMammoth Lakes is a town in Mono County, California, the county's only incorporated community. It is located northwest of Mount Morrison, at an elevation of . As of the 2010 United States Census, the population was 8,234, reflecting an increase of 1,141 from the 7,093 counted in the 2000 Census.\n\nThe Mono people were the first settlers of the Mammoth Lakes area, thousands of years ago. They settled in the valley but traveled by foot to other lands when trading with different tribes.\n\nThe European history of Mammoth Lakes started in 1877, when four prospectors staked a claim on Mineral Hill, south of the current town, along Old Mammoth Road. In 1878, the Mammoth Mining Company was organized to mine Mineral Hill, which caused a gold rush. By the end of 1878, 1500 people settled in the mining camp called Mammoth City. By 1880, the company had shut down, and by 1888, the population declined to less than 10 people. By the early 1900s, the town of Mammoth was informally established near Mammoth Creek. The economics of the original town was based on logging and tourism. The first post office at Mammoth Lakes opened in 1923.\n\nIn 2004, the Mammoth Ski Museum opened in town. The museum featured many vintage artifacts, photographs, and posters. A movie documenting the life of the founder of the ski resort (Dave McCoy) and those of early famous skiers in the area is shown. In 2010, photographs taken by Dave McCoy were featured in an exhibit at the museum.\n\nIn 2008, after a jury trial, the Mono County Superior Court entered a $43 million judgment against the Town of Mammoth Lakes for breach of a development agreement. The California Court of Appeal, Third District, affirmed the judgment in December 2010, and the California Supreme Court declined to hear the appeal on March 23, 2011. On Monday July 2, 2012, Mammoth Lakes filed for bankruptcy in the face of the judgement. Later the same year, the bankruptcy was dismissed as a result of a settlement between the town and their largest creditor.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , of which are land, and (1.74%) water.\n\nMammoth Lakes lies on the edge of the Long Valley Caldera. The area around the town is geologically active, with hot springs and rhyolite domes that are less than 1000 years old.\n\nVisitors can take State Route 203 from the town of Mammoth Lakes to the Mammoth Mountain Ski Area, over Minaret Summit, then down to Devils Postpile National Monument, with access to the Ansel Adams Wilderness.\n\nThe area has natural hot springs which are sometimes used after skiing. Other features include lakes, a soda springs, and an obsidian dome. Mammoth Lakes is north of the Owens Valley, a scenic area with extensive hiking opportunities.\n\nThe town is surrounded by mountains: on the west, Mammoth Mountain looms over the town, while to the south, the Sherwin Range dominates the view. This hilly terrain and the high altitude makes the area great for high-altitude athletic training, including among elite long-distance runners, who live and train in the thin air.\n\nThe town is surrounded by acres of forest and is bordered by the Ansel Adams and John Muir Wilderness Areas. The eastern entrance of Yosemite National Park is located north of town. The town is situated in the southwestern, mountainous part of Mono County, California.\n\nDue to its high elevation, Mammoth Lakes has a dry-summer humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dsb\"), with long, very snowy winters, and warm, dry summers. Snowfall is particularly heavy from December through March, and averages per season. On average, there are 21 days of + highs, twenty-one days of highs under and 4.6 nights of sub- lows annually.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Mammoth Lakes had a population of 8,234. The population density was 325.4 people per square mile (125.6/km²). The racial makeup of Mammoth Lakes was 6,643 (80.7%) White, 29 (0.4%) African American, 49 (0.6%) Native American, 128 (1.6%) Asian, 5 (0.1%) Pacific Islander, 1,151 (14.0%) from other races, and 229 (2.8%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2,772 persons (33.7%).\n\nThe Census reported that 8,076 people (98.1% of the population) lived in households, 158 (1.9%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 3,229 households, out of which 942 (29.2%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 1,401 (43.4%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 177 (5.5%) had a female householder with no husband present, 144 (4.5%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 293 (9.1%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 13 (0.4%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 899 households (27.8%) were made up of individuals and 153 (4.7%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.50. There were 1,722 families (53.3% of all households); the average family size was 3.14.\n\nThe population was spread out with 1,719 people (20.9%) under the age of 18, 1,050 people (12.8%) aged 18 to 24, 2,833 people (34.4%) aged 25 to 44, 2,100 people (25.5%) aged 45 to 64, and 532 people (6.5%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 32.6 years. For every 100 females, there were 121.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 127.0 males.\n\nThere were 9,626 housing units at an average density of 380.4 per square mile (146.9/km²), of which 1,502 (46.5%) were owner-occupied, and 1,727 (53.5%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 3.4%; the rental vacancy rate was 33.6%. 3,464 people (42.1% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 4,612 people (56.0%) lived in rental housing units.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 7,093 people, 2,814 households, and 1,516 families residing in the town. The population density was 286.2 people per square mile (110.5/km²). There were 7,960 housing units at an average density of 321.1 per square mile (124.0/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 83.21% White, 0.41% African American, 0.49% Native American, 1.27% Asian, 0.13% Pacific Islander, 12.35% from other races, and 2.14% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 22.20% of the population.\n\nThere were 2,814 households out of which 28.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 43.3% were married couples living together, 6.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 46.1% were non-families. 28.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 2.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.44 and the average family size was 3.09.\n\nIn the town the population was spread out with 22.5% under the age of 18, 13.3% from 18 to 24, 38.4% from 25 to 44, 21.5% from 45 to 64, and 4.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 32 years. For every 100 females, there were 131.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 141.2 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $44,570, and the median income for a family was $52,561. Males had a median income of $31,280 versus $25,106 for females. The per capita income for the town was $24,526. About 8.7% of families and 14.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14.9% of those under age 18 and none of those age 65 or over.\n\nMammoth Lakes' economy is primarily tourism-based. For example, Mammoth Mountain Ski Resort is the top ski destination in California. A 13% tax is added to the rental of any lodging facility and campgrounds for stays of less than a month. There are more than 4,599 rental units in Mammoth Lakes and the lodging industry generates around two-thirds of the gross revenue of the Town of Mammoth Lakes. As well as the pull from winter extreme sports, Mammoth Lakes also benefits greatly from tourism in the summer from people who visit to camp, hike and fish.\n\nThe Mammoth Lakes real estate market has gone through ups and downs over the past few decades. In 1980, an earthquake with magnitude of 6.1 on the Richter scale sent area property values plummeting on fears of a potential volcanic eruption similar to the 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens. A significant real estate surplus formed after this, during which Mammoth Lakes had a total of over 1200 properties on the market. The development of the Mammoth Mountain ski area has had a direct effect on housing in more recent years. The tourist market has led to an explosion of property values. This peaked in 2003 when the median property value reached $750,000. Another peak occurred in 2006 with the sale of the Mammoth Mountain ski area to Starwood Capital Group.\nAs of February 2010, the median listing price was $460,000. This represents a drop of over 38% from the peak reached in 2006.\n\nMammoth Lakes is home to Mammoth Brewing Company and Black Doubt Brewing Company.\n\nThe municipal government of Mammoth Lakes is of the council-manager type. The town council consists of five members serving staggered four-year terms. A mayor and a mayor pro tem are selected from town council on an annually rotating basis. Law enforcement is provided by the Mammoth Lakes Police Department and fire protection is provided by the Mammoth Lakes Fire Protection District. Emergency medical service is provided by Mono County operating out of Mammoth Lakes Fire Station #1.\n\nIn the California State Legislature, Mammoth Lakes is in , and in .\n\nIn the United States House of Representatives, Mammoth Lakes is in .\n\nThe Mammoth Unified School District includes the following schools: Mammoth Elementary School, Mammoth Middle School, Mammoth High School, Sierra High School, and Mammoth High School ILC.\n\nThe Mono County Office of Education offers an alternative high school, the Jan Work Community School, where highly motivated students are allowed to earn credits more quickly than may be earned in a traditional semester.\n\nThe Mammoth Lakes Campus of Cerro Coso Community College is also known as the Eastern Sierra College Center. It was established in 1998 and is accredited by the Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges (ACCJC) \n\nThe Mammoth Lakes Library opened in December 2007.\n\nMammoth Lakes receives scheduled passenger airline service year via the Mammoth Yosemite Airport with nonstop propjet flights operated to Los Angeles and seasonally to San Diego by Horizon Air. In addition, United Express operated by SkyWest Airlines operates nonstop regional jet service to San Francisco (SFO) on a seasonal basis.\n\nLocal and intercity bus service is provided by Eastern Sierra Transit Authority. Yosemite Area Regional Transportation System provides summer bus connections to Yosemite.\n\nVarious western films have been shot by Mammoth Lakes. Examples include \"Thundering Hoofs\" (1924), \"The Border Legion\" (1924), \"Beyond the Rockies\" (1932), \"Flaming Guns\" (1932), \"The Trail Beyond\" (1934), \"Call of the Wild\" (1935), \"Moonlight on the Prairie\" (1935), \"Royal Mounted\" (1936), \"God's Country and the Woman\" (1937), \"Cassidy of Bar 20\" (1938), \"Hawk of the Wilderness\" (1938), \"Knights of the Range\" (1940), \"Melody Ranch\" (1940), \"Sierra Sue\" (1941), \"The Return of Frank James\" (1940), \"Flame of the Barbary Coast\" (1945), \"Frontier Gal\" (1945), and \"Rose Marie\" (1954).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14092511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14092511", "title": "New Markets Tax Credit Program", "text": "New Markets Tax Credit Program\n\nThe New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program incentivizes business and real estate investment in low-income communities of the United States via a federal tax credit. The program is administered by the US Treasury Department's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund and allocated by local Community Development Entities (CDEs) across the United States.\n\nThe New Markets Tax Credit Program was established as part of the Community Renewal Tax Relief Act of 2000. The goal of the program is to spur revitalization efforts of low-income and impoverished communities across the United States and Territories. The NMTC Program provides tax credit incentives to investors for equity investments in certified Community Development Entities, which invest in low-income communities. The credit equals 39% of the investment paid out (5% in each of the first three years, then 6% in the final four years, for a total of 39%) over seven years (more accurately, six years and one day of the seventh year). A Community Development Entity must have a primary mission of investing in low-income communities and persons.\n\nThe concept behind the NMTC emerged in the late 1990s, when numerous foundations and think tanks were working to popularize the idea of using business-oriented mechanisms to help disadvantaged communities increase wealth and jobs. For example, business, community, academic, and public sector participants at the 1997 American Assembly meeting issued a report urging business leaders to reinvest in urban areas in the U.S. The final report also pushed nonprofit and government\nofficials to help lead this new effort to open untapped markets through a fostering of \"community capitalism.\" It defined community capitalism as a \"for-profit, business-driven expansion of investment, job creation, and economic opportunities in distressed communities, with government and the community sectors playing key supportive roles.\" To accomplish this revival, participants called for improving access to capital (especially through equity investment) and ensuring greater technical assistance for businesses. These were seen as the two key ways of \"energizing community capitalism in distressed areas\". The report set out crucial components of the future New Markets initiative. The American Assembly disseminated the final report widely, including sending it to the White House and Congress. Vice President Al Gore, in support of the conference conclusions, stated that, \"The greatest untapped markets In the world are right here at home, in our distressed communities.\"\n\nThe Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund in the Department of the Treasury has been authorized to administer the program. Community Development Entities (CDEs) apply to the CDFI Fund each year not for tax credits directly, but for an award of \"allocation authority\"—that is, the authority to raise a certain amount of capital, or Qualified Equity Investments (QEIs) from investors. In the first year of the program (2001), the CDFI Fund awarded $1 billion in allocation authority to CDEs, enabling those CDEs to raise $1 billion in QEIs from investors, which enabled those investors to reduce their federal tax liability by $390 million (or 39% of the amount they invested in the CDEs) over seven years. For the investors to be able to claim the credits over the seven-year compliance period, the CDEs must use \"substantially all\" (\"Sub All\") of the QEIs from investors to make Qualified Low Income Community Investments (QLICIs) in Qualified Active Low Income Community Businesses (QALICBs) located in Low Income Communities (LICs). (Each of the previous terms—CDE, QEI, \"Substantially All,\" QLICI, QALICB, and LIC—are defined in the Internal Revenue Code and other federal guidance.)\n\nThrough 2010, there have been eight NMTC allocation rounds. Allocation awards for a prior round are typically made within the first quarter of the calendar year after a round. In the eighth round (2010), the CDFI fund awarded the $3.5 billion allocation authority pool (which would generate $1.365B in tax credits for investors; $3.5B x 39% = $1.365B) to 99 CDEs out of a pool of 250 applicants, who had requested allocations totaling $23.5 billion.\n\nFrom the CDFI Fund website:\n\nA QEI is a Qualified Equity Investment. An investor with a QEI is entitled to claim the NMTC, if a credit allowance date occurs during the investor's taxable year. For each equity investment in the CDE, examiners should determine whether the investment is a QEI for purposes of IRC §45D.\n\nA QLICI is a Qualified Low-Income Community Investment. The CDE must invest the QEIs in QLICIs. The investments can be:\n\nQALICB is a Qualified Active Low-Income Community Business. QALICBs are any for-profit or non-profit corporation or partnership if;\n\nLow Income community (LIC) is any population census tract that meets one of the following criteria (as reported in the most recently completed decennial census published by the U.S. Bureau of the Census):\n\nThe New Markets Tax Credit is outlined in Section 45D of the Internal Revenue Code. Unlike many other tax credit programs (such as the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Program, which was made a permanent part of the Internal Revenue Code in 1993 under the Clinton administration), as a non-permanent program, the New Markets Tax Credit has required renewal during each session of Congress. Most recently, the New Markets Tax Credit program was extended as part of Section 733 of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010.\n\nThe NMTC program expired on December 31, 2011, along with several dozen of the so-called \"tax extenders\". It was retroactively renewed in H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 for another 2 years until January 2014.\n\nU.S. Senators Jay Rockefeller (D-West Virginia) and Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) introduced S.B. 1133, \"New Markets Tax Credit Extension Act of 2013\" in June 2013 to permanently add New Market Tax Credits to the Internal Revenue Code, however the program expired in January 2014 without the bill's passing.\n\n\n^ Brief Overview of NMTC Program\n\n"}
{"id": "31509861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31509861", "title": "Orphans' Decree", "text": "Orphans' Decree\n\nThe Orphans' Decree was a law in Yemen mandating the forced conversion of Jewish orphans to Islam promulgated by the Zaydi. Although the law stipulated that any pre-pubescent dhimmi whose parents had died when he or she was a minor could be seized by the state and converted to Islam, it applied only to Jews because Jews were the only resident dhimmi in Yemen when the decree was issued, or revived, in the 17th century. According to one source, the decree has \"no parallel in other countries\".\n\nThis law, like all laws applying to dhimmi, was applied more or less ruthlessly depending upon the inclination local and royal officials. It was aggressively enforced at least some of the time and in some regions under Imam Yahya (1918–1948).\n\nAlthough forced conversion is not widely recognized under Islamic laws, historian and Arabist Shelomo Dov Goitein believes that a forced conversion of orphans could have been justified by the revelation attributed to Muhammad that states: \"Every person is born to the natural religion [Islam], and only his parents make a Jew or a Christian out of him.\"\n\nThere are only some fragmentary and isolated accounts about the enforcing of the decree before Ottoman rule. It was not enforced equally in every part of Yemen. There were places where Jews were able to hide orphaned children and protect them from being forcibly converted to Islam. Still there are several accounts about the enforcement of the decree.\n\nShalom Shabazi, a Jewish poet who lived in 17th century Yemen, wrote in one of his poems about \"stealing orphans\". A translation of the poem runs thus: \"Thousands of orphaned souls, both boys and girls, were wrested from the arms of their parents, grandfather and grandmother, by force by the nations all the days of the many kings of Yemen.\"\n\nRabbi Hayyim Habshush writes that by the end of Al-Mansur Ali I's rule in 1809 the Imam built palaces for his sons \"and when he settled his sons in those palaces he ordered that the orphaned Jewish children be seized and converted and made servants and scribes in the palaces.\" In the same account Habshush testifies that there were some \"who concealed the children in their homes until they were fully grown.\"\n\nOne more account is dated to 1850. Jewish scholar Amram Qorah recalls a story about his orphaned father, who was hidden by a Jewish family in their home and thereby escaped a forced conversion.\n\nTudor Parfitt compares the Orphans' Decree to \"draconian measures introducing the forced conscription of Jewish children into the Czarist's army\" in Russia. Concerning the reintroduction of the Orphans' Decree in Yemen in 1921, after the end of Ottoman rule, Parfitt says that \"in the first ten years\" it \"was implemented with great rigour.\"\n\nOnce again the decree was not implemented equally in every part of Yemen. In some places the authorities turned \"a blind eye\" to escaped and hidden children, but, in the places the Decree was implemented, troops were sent to search for escaped children, and the leaders of Jewish communities that were suspected of hiding the children were \"imprisoned and tortured\".\n\nIn 1923 the Jewish community of Al Hudaydah suffered the abduction of 42 orphaned children, some of whom managed to escape.\n\nA witness account from Sana'a recalls an abduction of two fatherless siblings, a brother and a sister. The children were forcibly taken from their mother's arms and beaten to make them convert to Islam. The Jewish community offered to pay for the children's release to their family, but Islamic law prohibits accepting money to avert such a conversion. The witness compares the ceremony of the conversion of the siblings to a \"funeral procession\".\n\nAfter getting out of the orphanage, converted Jewish boys were often enlisted as soldiers. The girls made a valuable asset as brides because there were no relatives who needed to be paid a bride price in order to marry them.\n\nJewish communities responded by acting quickly when children were orphaned, sometimes taking children and placing them with Jewish families living in dense Jewish settlements, especially Sana, large enough that a Jewish family might lack Muslim neighbors who would notice the addition of a child to a family. However, because \"hidden\" children might be discovered and forcibly converted, relatives or the Jewish community sometimes arranged to take them out of the Yemen; cases are recorded of Jews making the arduous journey to settle in the Land of Israel with orphaned relatives or unrelated children they had adopted in order to escape the threat that the children might be taken for conversion. In the first-half of the twentieth-century, the Chief Rabbi of Yemen, Yihya Yitzhak Halevi, worked tirelessly to save Jewish orphans from falling into the hands of Muslims. From about 1920, British imperial control of Aden provided a safe haven to which orphaned children could be taken; clandestine caravans carrying orphans and traveling by night are known to have gone from various parts of Yemen to take orphaned children to the sanctuary of the British Empire.\n\nAn orphaned boy or boy or girl could also be very quickly married, since married people had the legal status of adults and could not be taken for forcible conversion.\n\nThe \"Orphans' Decree\" has left its imprint in Modern Israel, where playwright, Shlomo Dori, in his play \"A New Life\" (1927), raises the concern of being imprisoned for hiding two Jewish orphans, and where actor and composer, Sa'adia Dhamari, in the musical \"The Bearer [of Good Tidings]\" (1957), makes his chief protagonists Jewish orphans who had converted to Islam.\n\n"}
{"id": "46190522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46190522", "title": "Pao v. Kleiner Perkins", "text": "Pao v. Kleiner Perkins\n\nEllen Pao v. Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers LLC and DOES 1-20 is a lawsuit filed in 2012 in San Francisco County Superior Court under the law of California by executive Ellen Pao for gender discrimination against her employer, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. Overlapping with a number of condemning studies on the representation of women in venture capital, the case was followed closely by reporters, advocacy groups and Silicon Valley executives. Given the tendency for similar cases to reach settlements out of court, coverage of \"Pao v. Kleiner Perkins\" described it as a landmark trial once it began in February 2015. On March 27, 2015 the jury found in favor of Kleiner Perkins on all counts.\n\nEllen Pao is a Chinese American woman from New Jersey. She has a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering from Princeton University, a juris doctor from Harvard Law School and an MBA from Harvard Business School.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1996, Pao worked as a corporate attorney at Cravath, Swaine & Moore. In 1998, Pao worked at WebTV. Pao worked at several companies in Silicon Valley including BEA Systems as Senior Director, Corporate Business Development from 2001 until 2005.\n\nIn 2005 Pao joined Kleiner Perkins as technical chief of staff for John Doerr, a senior partner, a job that required degrees in engineering, law, and business, and experience in enterprise software. In 2007 she became a junior investing partner with Ted Schlein as her boss but was eventually passed over for a senior partner position. According to Pao, she had the job title of junior partner from her date of hiring and was promised an opportunity to move into an investing role. Doerr, who has expressed awareness of the gender gap at venture capital firms, mentored Pao, liberally providing feedback, but, in the end, agreed with the other senior partners who had made negative evaluations of her work at the firm. It was Pao's contention that men with similar profiles were, nevertheless, promoted.\n\nOn May 10, 2012, Pao filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against her employer alleging workplace retaliation by a married junior partner, Ajit Nazre, with whom she had an affair. She planned to continue working at the firm but left on October 1 claiming that she was terminated. Her lawyer said she was fired in retaliation for her lawsuit and the complaint was amended to add that cause of action.\n\nPao joined Reddit in 2013 and became interim CEO in November 2014 after Yishan Wong resigned.\n\nKleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers is a venture capital firm located in Menlo Park in Silicon Valley. \"The Wall Street Journal\" and other media have called it one of the \"largest and most established\" venture capital firms and it has been called \"one of Silicon Valley's top venture capital providers\" by \"Dealbook\".\n\nThe firm specializes in investments in incubation and early stage companies. Since its founding in 1972, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers has backed entrepreneurs in more than 500 ventures including AOL, Amazon.com, Navigenics, Citrix, Compaq, Electronic Arts, Genentech, Genomic Health, Geron Corporation, Google, Intuit, Juniper Networks, Nebula, Netscape, Sun Microsystems, Symantec, Verisign, WebMD and Zynga. KPCB focuses its global investments in three practice areas – digital, green tech and life sciences.\n\nAlthough there are fewer women than men in both junior and senior positions employed by Kleiner Perkins, its gender gap is smaller than that of most other venture capital firms and its most prominent female partner, Mary Meeker, has called it \"the best place to be for a woman in the business.\"\n\nRepresentatives for Kleiner Perkins stated that they had offered Pao a five-month transition, with pay, to an operating role, and only fired her effective October 31, 2012 when she rejected the offer. They claimed that the decision to reassign her was made for performance reasons unrelated to the lawsuit.\n\nThe original case was filed under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act and contained three causes of action: \n\n\n\n\nFollowing her termination the complaint was amended and a second count of retaliation, termination, was added. The actual damages demanded by the suit totalled $16 million. This is approximately the amount that Pao floated in a conversation with COO Eric Keller when asked what it would take to change her mind about staying at the company. Pao explained that she \"wanted my payment to be enough so it was a meaningful amount to Kleiner Perkins, so they saw it would be painful to not fix problems.\" The plaintiff also made a plea for punitive damages. Although Judge Harold Kahn initially leaned toward denying this motion, he approved it on March 21, 2015.\n\nThe matter went to trial in late February 2015 with jury selection on Monday, February 23, and opening statements on Tuesday, February 24. The trial, lasting 24 days, resulted in a verdict for Kleiner Perkins. It was covered by the national media and elicited broad comment regarding the issues raised. The case was live blogged and tweeted, to the point that the constant coverage provided both humorous and serious feedback to lawyers and witnesses.\n\nThe trial was heard before a jury of 6 women and 6 men drawn from diverse employment and ethnic backgrounds and Judge Harold E. Kahn at San Francisco Superior Court. Kleiner Perkins was principally represented by Lynne Hermle of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe. It was also supported by Jessica Perry of the same firm and by its own counsel Paul Vronsky. Pao was represented by Alan Exelrod of Rudy Exelrod Zieff & Lowe and by Therese Lawless of Lawless & Lawless.\n\nIt was a trial to a jury of 12 who, under the rules of the court, were permitted to submit written questions to witnesses. The judge was also permitted to question witnesses. Witnesses were disclosed and deposed prior to the trial and transcripts of their depositions were available to counsel for the opposing sides and could be compared to the testimony of the witness in the courtroom. There were hundreds of exhibits consisting of documents and emails which the court had audio-visual equipment to display to the witness, jury, and audience.\n\nThe plaintiff presented her case first, arguing that men were promoted ahead of women, that ideas coming from women were more quickly dismissed and that women who experienced sexual harassment received little support. Pao claimed that Ajit Nazre, the partner who initiated a sexual relationship with her, was responsible for much of this harassment. Pao said that he began excluding her from important meetings and emails after she ended the relationship. To characterize the company's response, her case explained that $22,000 was deducted from his paycheck once and that there was no strong desire to reprimand him until an outside investigation was able to link him to multiple instances of harassment. Additionally Pao said that she felt the need to move from green tech to the digital division to avoid him. Pao was asked if she objected to having Nazre's office moved to the same corridor as her own. However, she claimed that when she said \"yes\", the company responded by trying to move her office rather than cancelling the move of Nazre's.\n\nIt was explained that Pao sourced an investment in RPX Corporation, a company designed to fight patent trolls, which led to an IPO. While arguing that this was adequate reason for a promotion, her side disputed KPCB's rationale for keeping her off the board of directors. They argued that the policies for how many investments and how many board seats could involve junior partners were unevenly applied between women and men. Performance reviews were raised to show contradictory evaluations such as \"too bold\" and \"too quiet\". As further evidence that Pao's work for the company was not appreciated, they pointed to potential investments in Twitter and The Climate Corporation which were turned down after Pao proposed them, both of which were seen to be profitable later on.\n\nA number of incidents were described in the plaintiff's case including a Valentine's day gift that she considered inappropriate, a conversation in a company jet that she felt objectified women, a dinner in Al Gore's apartment to which no women were invited and a ski trip which invited one woman on a technicality. Pao stated that she did not speak out about these when they occurred because she did not want a \"reputation as a complainer\". Issues with her last year at Kleiner Perkins concerned a memorandum she sent on January 4, 2012 and an alleged absence of training and policies to prevent discrimination. The plaintiff argued that the defendant took several steps to cover up aspects that reflected poorly on its record of gender equality.\n\nThe defendant's case placed emphasis on its large ratio of women compared to other venture capital firms. An example statistic was that it had 11 female partners and a 20% female staff compared to the average of 7-11% based on studies in 2011 and 2013. A 2014 study found that this number dropped to 4% when only senior partners were considered. The defense also argued that Pao was paid more than most of her male colleagues. While salaries had previously been redacted from legal documents, the trial revealed that Pao's salary after bonuses eventually reached a peak of $560,000. They also pointed to several opportunities that were afforded to Pao including a speech coach, mentorship from John Doerr and a longer career than that of many other junior partners. To argue that Pao's firing was justified, they presented several negative performance reviews that she received and frequently described her as \"entitled\" and \"not a team player\".\n\nKleiner Perkins contended that Pao's job description had been mostly managerial and that limiting her involvement in investing was not a sign of discrimination. They also said that promotions to the senior partner position were rare with 20 of the 25 people previously in Pao's position also being passed over. The defense brought in emails to show that Pao expected to be fired and suggested that some of them provided evidence that she was plotting a lawsuit. They also argued over whether her acceptance of severance pay constituted a tacit approval that the company was within its rights to fire her. The package was potentially valued at $400,000 but Pao did not receive the full amount on account of finding a job within less than a year. There are also reports that she turned it down entirely. Stating that many of the plaintiff's claims were stale, KPCB's side offered some explanations for the incidents she described and alleged that she saw discrimination where none existed. They claimed that this provided further evidence that she was an unpleasant coworker.\n\nThe defendant tried to introduce another line of argument based on Pao having a financial motive for filing the lawsuit. They stated in a sidebar that she may have done this to help alleviate the financial troubles of her husband Buddy Fletcher, a hedge fund manager who filed for bankruptcy in 2012. However, Judge Harold Kahn ruled out this defence stating that it would place undue scrutiny on the plaintiff's personal life. Additionally, Pao maintained that their money had always been separate due to a prenuptial agreement. At the time, Fletcher was reading news about the trial and not making courtroom appearances, on the advice of Pao and her lawyers.\n\nWhile most of the witnesses had some affiliation with Kleiner Perkins, many of them had left the firm by the time the trial took place. Some witnesses, such as John Doerr, were called by both the plaintiff and defense lawyers. Exelrod began by showing pictures of three male witnesses, Amol Deshpande, Chi-Hua Chien and Wen Hsieh, saying that they were promoted ahead of Pao despite joining the firm later and not investing in any companies that went public. Hermle countered that other men not shown were not promoted and that those three were seen as assets because they had started businesses before being hired.\n\nThe first witness called was Tracy \"Trae\" Vassallo who agreed to testify despite remembering a conversation in which Pao called her \"untrustworthy\". Her appearance was described as a surprise. Having received a promotion to senior partner after Pao's termination, Vassallo testified that she still enjoyed working for KPCB but had problems with Chien and Nazre. About Nazre, she said he accosted her while in a bath robe and propositioned her at a dinner after lying that it would involve other contacts of theirs. She testified that her boss Ray Lane told her that she \"should be flattered\" by his advances and asked her to \"talk to her husband\" before deciding what to do. Lane denied making the former comment. Along with explaining that she confided in Pao and filed the complaint which eventually led to Nazre's termination, Vassallo mentioned the seating plan of a meeting in which she and Pao were told to sit in the back. Her description was \"it sounds petty, but people were arranged in the room around how much input they'd have in the discussion.\"\n\nThe second witness was Chi-Hua Chien who confirmed that he organized the ski trip and the Al Gore dinner, both of which had only male guests. For the ski trip, he said this was done to ease the logistics of condo sharing and that if the trip were repeated in another year, it would have involved more women to make up for this. He denied the plaintiff's claim that he said \"women kill the buzz.\" Regarding the dinner, a deposition video was brought up in which Aileen Lee testified that she and John Doerr complained about the lack of women. Pao said she felt humiliated because she lived in the building where the event was being held and had to explain to the guests passing by that she was not one of them. Pao's side presented emails that showed Chien complaining about her in a vulgar way. Chien stated that he was collegial at first and only developed problems with Pao later on. The defense also argued that Chien would not have been named as a trustee of Lee's firm Cowboy Ventures if his respect for women had been doubted.\n\nKleiner Perkins CFO Susan Biglieri testified that Mary Meeker and Beth Seidenberg were the first two women in the firm's history to reach its highest rank of \"managing member\". Pao's legal team argued that these promotions in 2011 and 2012 were made to save face in the wake of Pao's discrimination complaints. Biglieri also testified that the firm's anti-discrimination policy, though distributed internally, was not posted on the website until after Ellen Pao filed her lawsuit. The plaintiff also showed that an Equal Opportunity Employment policy had to be written in 2012 after COO Eric Keller failed to find one.\n\nRejecting claims that she was hired into an operating role, Pao explained that she initially turned down the job offer from Kleiner Perkins but arranged with John Doerr to make it \"more senior\". Some of Pao's duties included reviewing 1,800 iFund applications, writing part of Mary Meeker's USA Inc report and ghostwriting many of Doerr's speeches including a TED Talk. Doerr testified that he praised Pao's writing skills from her date of hiring but only learned that she resented this work much later. Doerr also recalled that before convincing her to stay, Pao wanted to leave in 2007 due to frustration with Ajit Nazre. Another of Pao's attempts to leave was protested by Ted Schlein, her boss after Doerr. Although Schlein testified that he \"reluctantly\" hired Pao, he also said that he convinced her to stay at the firm when she was being considered for one of the original jobs in Google Ventures. Schlein's testimony covered reviews that were frequently critical of Pao, using \"entitled\", \"passive\" and \"territorial\" to describe her. He was criticized for a comment that venture capital skills were \"not part of Ellen's genetic makeup.\" Doerr claimed that he frequently defended Pao and advocated for the reviews to be rewritten until eventually supporting her termination. He said \"the junior partner is an up-or-out role. We have no lifetime junior partners.\" When Hermle presented a list of female partners to Doerr, he described playing a role in all of their careers. However, Exelrod argued that Doerr was responsible for some sexism as well by playing a video where he stated that \"white male nerds\" were a safe investment. Although Pao spoke positively of Doerr, she commented that he often raised issues of pregnancy and suggested that her three-month maternity leave was the real reason she did not receive a board seat at RPX. Doerr stated that having junior partners sit on only one board was a guideline, not a rule. Pao contended that Chien had \"five or six\" board seats as a junior but the defense replied that he may have shortened \"board observer seat\" to \"board seat\" as a form of bragging and stated that Matt Murphy took five years to join a board.\n\nTestimony of the plaintiff occupied most of the second week. She described mentoring Wen Hsieh and recalled hearing about three administrative assistants who were harassed by Nazre. When questioned about this, Pao knew only that one of their first names was Tina, inviting theories that the women had settled with Kleiner Perkins and signed non-disclosure agreements. On cross-examination, Hermle found an inconsistency with Pao's deposition video on the question of whether she asked to see an Equal Opportunity Employment policy. She also sought to show evidence of plotting in 2011 and 2012 by bringing up emails in which Pao discussed her options with friend and Google engineer Lori Park. These revealed that Pao had applied for jobs at YouTube and Menlo Ventures and was considering starting her own firm. Some issues with how Pao responded to termination were also raised. Pao said that it made sense for her to break the news to the CEOs of the three companies in her immediate network but revealed that Ted Schlein chastised her for doing so. On the stand, Pao objected to the way Employment Law Alliance investigator Stephen Hirschfeld responded to the discrimination complaints by Trae Vassallo and herself. She alleged that the reports used biased language, softened the airplane incident by changing the name of a pornographic show to \"Entourage\" and focused on eliminating KPCB's liability rather than addressing the concerns of employees. When Hirschfeld was questioned by Lawless, he revealed that his reports did not include a matrix which Vassallo used to tabulate discrepancies between male and female partners. This criticism was repeated by Allison West of Employment Practices Specialists who testified that the firm's investigation of gender issues was insufficient. She also commented that it was circular for the defendant to rely heavily on performance reviews to discredit Pao's allegations against the people writing them.\n\nContrasting Pao's statement that she discussed gender bias with Aileen Lee and Trae Vassallo, the defendant named three female witnesses who stated that they never felt discriminated against: Mary Meeker, Beth Seidenberg and Juliet de Baubigny. Private human resources consultant Rhoma Young defended the attention to detail in KPCB's review process and Harvard Business School professor Paul Gompers spoke favorably of its commitment to diversity. Another professor testifying for Kleiner Perkins, David Lewin of UCLA, alleged that Pao's claim to $16 million was invalid because she could have secured a lucrative salary with a more thorough job search. When Mary Meeker testified, she described Pao as \"insecure\" and \"quiet\" and recalled being invited to a second Al Gore dinner. Beth Seidenberg compared venture capital to her background in the medical field and said she was optimistic that it would see an influx of female talent as well. Juliet de Baubigny testified more directly about Ellen Pao and condemned her habit of making complaints against coworkers. She also denied using the word \"sex addict\" to describe Ajit Nazre, something that the plaintiff cited as evidence that his hostility was common knowledge.\n\nTestifying in the final week was an investor witness from outside Kleiner Perkins named Andrew Jody Gessow, a passenger of the private flight that Pao described as offensive. He claimed that there was no discussion of pornography but Lawless pressed that his memory may have lapsed due to medication he was taking. Senior partner Randy Komisar also testified that week about why he received the board seat at RPX despite his investment in it being a joint effort with Ellen Pao. He stated that Pao described her respect for John Doerr's decision in an email and interpreted that as meaning she agreed with it. Komisar said that his friendship with Pao deteriorated over the word \"hate\" when she wrote in a later email that the board of RPX \"hated him\". He also testified that a book described as making Pao feel uneasy was a Valentine's day gift from him. Specifically it was the \"Book of Longing\" by Leonard Cohen with whom Pao claimed to be unfamiliar. One of the last people to testify was senior partner Matt Murphy who described Pao as \"pushy\" and \"aggressive\". He also recalled being embarrassed when Pao fell asleep at a board meeting. Although admitting that he began taking detailed notes about Pao four days after her suit was filed, he maintained that he had wanted to fire her for years and that only resistance from Doerr stood in the way. Discussing a negative performance review, Exelrod asked Murphy to explain why Pao was able to receive high praise from Mike McCue. Murphy's response was that McCue was known for saying overly positive things.\n\nThe jury was reminded of the plaintiff's claims in which number 1 had to be proven before number 3 could be considered:\nThere were no sexual harassment claims. The standard of proof was preponderance of the evidence, met if a proposition is more likely to be true than not.\n\nDespite the title of \"junior partner,\" Ellen Pao was an at-will employee who could be fired without warning at any time for any reason or for no reason but not for the wrong reasons such as a statutory exception where \"actions or inactions were substantially motivated by gender discrimination and/or retaliation\". \"Substantial motivating reasons and factors are more than remote or trivial motivating reasons and factors.\"\n\nIt was explained that compensatory damages are an estimate of the plaintiff's past and future lost earnings. Other, more complicated and technical, compensatory damages were reserved for future determination in the event of a favorable verdict for plaintiff.\n\nIf the jury felt the defendant's actions involved malice, fraud and oppression they could have considered punitive damages after the initial verdict was returned. There was a 7-page verdict form.\n\nAlan Exelrod made the closing argument for plaintiff, saying that the defendant's leaders \"ran Kleiner Perkins like a boys' club.\" Lynne Hermle made the closing statement for defendant, focusing on the issues of the numbers of women employed and the allegedly discriminatory events. According to her, the plaintiff was fired because, while she is an excellent executive, she was not able to perform in venture capital at a senior level. Therese Lawless presented the rebuttal on behalf of the plaintiff, saying \"women will be judged in one way and men in another. That's not how it works in this country.\" She also thanked an anonymous member of the jury whose question revealed that an evaluation, deemed to be negative based on its long comments from Matt Murphy and Ted Schlein, actually received input from 7 people, 5 of whom reviewed Pao positively.\n\nThe case was submitted to the jury about noon on March 25, 2015. A unanimous verdict was not required, only support of 9 of the 12 jurors, 75%. It was reported that when deliberations began, impressions of the jurors were 8 siding with Kleiner Perkins, 2 siding with Ellen Pao and 2 undecided with all groups split evenly by gender.\n\nThe initial verdict was announced shortly after 2 p.m. on Friday, March 27. The jury found 10-2 in favor of Kleiner Perkins on the first 3 claims. The jury, which found 8 to 4 in favor of Kleiner Perkins on the fourth claim of retaliation by termination, was directed to continue to deliberate as the finding did not meet the required threshold of 75%. The jury deliberated for about two hours then returned a final verdict in favor of Kleiner Perkins on all claims as one juror changed his vote from yes to no on the 4th claim. According to the three jurors who talked to the media the jury focused on Pao's performance reviews in arriving at their verdict.\n\nOn the same day, jurors Steve Sammut and Marshallette Ramsey revealed what their votes had been. Ramsey supported the plaintiff and said that she encouraged other women in Pao's situation to stand up for themselves. Her reason was that it \"seemed that the men, with the same character flaws that Ellen was cited with, were able to propel and continue.\" Although Sammut was not convinced that what Pao experienced was gender discrimination, he expressed a hope that Kleiner Perkins would still be punished for how it treated employees in general.\n\nThe defendant requested costs of $972,814, 90% of which was for expert witness fees. Kleiner Perkins stated that the fee would be waived if the plaintiff chose not to appeal. On June 18, 2015 the court awarded $275,966 to Kleiner Perkins, stating that the disparity in economic resources between the parties was too great to justify the original amount. Pao's side claimed that this was an unfair response to a loss in a discrimination case and filed a notice of appeal on June 1, 2015, 7 days before the deadline. The appeal, which would have been held in the First District Court of Appeal, was to focus on the verdict since most procedural rulings by the judge were made in favor of the plaintiff.\n\nOn September 10, 2015, sources reported that Pao was dropping her appeal, citing an inability to afford further litigation. In a Re/code post on the topic, Pao wrote about the importance of discussing gender bias publicly and stated that she was rejecting requests from KPCB to sign a non-disparagement agreement. She stated that this would make her responsible for court costs after the appeal was dropped. However, on September 17, Kleiner Perkins accepted the dropping of Pao's appeal without the $276,000 cost reimbursement.\n\nFollowing the case, a number of other people filed discrimination suits against high-profile companies, as with \"Chia Hong v. Facebook\" and \"Tina Huang v. Twitter\". A number of publications credited Pao and her case with focusing attention on the issue of gender discrimination and workplace sexism, especially in the venture capital and technology industries, and for inspiring others to act. The impact of Pao and the case became known as \"the Pao effect\". Afterwards, \"Pao v. Kleiner Perkins\" was again credited with inspiring a discrimination case when security researcher Katie Moussouris filed a suit against Microsoft.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42627781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42627781", "title": "Perry O. Hooper Jr.", "text": "Perry O. Hooper Jr.\n\nPerry Oliver Hooper Jr. (born October 5, 1954), is an insurance agent from his native Montgomery, Alabama, who is a Republican former member of the Alabama House of Representatives, having served in the District 73 seat from 1984 until 2003. After five terms, he was defeated in the primary election held on June 4, 2002.\n\nHooper is the oldest of four sons of late Perry O. Hooper Sr., the former Chief Justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, and the former Marilyn Yost. He received his undergraduate degree from Auburn University at Montgomery and his Juris Doctor from the Thomas Goode Jones School of Law, affiliated with Faulkner University, also in Montgomery.\n\nHooper is a vice president of the Palomar Insurance Corporation. He is married to the former Judy McKissick, the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Jefferson Clement McKissick, formerly of Montgomery. Judy Hooper is a teacher at the Trinity Presbyterian School in Montgomery, affiliated with the Trinity Presbyterian Church. Hooper is United Methodist.\n\nThe couple has three sons: (1) Perry Hooper III, D.O., who is married to Dr. Marsa True Beck, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Steven Taylor Beck of Richmond, VirginiaVirginia, named for her aunt, Marsa Susan Beck of Jacksonville, Florida, (2) Davis Shaw Hooper of Auburn, Alabama, and (3) Thomas Clement Hooper of Montgomery.\n\nIn 1982, Hooper ran for the District 81 state House seat vacated by the Democrat Larry Dixon, who was elected to the Alabama State Senate and switched to Republican affiliation in 1984. He was narrowly defeated by another Democrat, Ham Wilson Jr., who received 7,996 votes (50.9 percent) to Hooper's 7,725 (49.1 percent). In a special election in District 73 in 1983, a result of redistricting, he narrowly unseated Wilson, 4,518 (51.1 percent) to 4,328 (48.9 percent) to fill the remaining three years of the term. Hooper was unopposed for reelection in 1986 and won with 64.1 percent in 1990 over the Democrat Robert Finley. Hooper increased his margin in 1994 to 73.3 percent over another Democrat, Ray Vaughan. He won re-nomination in 1998 over fellow Republican Donald Blair Little (1954–2012), an attorney in Montgomery and a son of Republican former state Representative Tandy Little. Hooper had no Democratic opponent in 1998 for what turned out to be his last four-year term in the state House. Hooper lost in the 2002 primary to fellow Republican David Grimes, 3,582 (52.3 percent) to 3,273 (47.8 percent). Grimes was then unopposed in the general election of 2002 but lost the Republican primary in 2008.Hooper's defeat by Grimes is attributed in part to a $12,000 fine in 2001 from the Alabama Ethics Commission.\n\nHooper was a delegate to the Republican national conventions of 1984 (Dallas), 1992 (Houston), and 1996 (San Diego). He served on the Platform Committee in 1992, with the re-nomination of the Bush-Quayle ticket, and the Rules Committee in 1996, when the party turned to Bob Dole. \n\nHooper failed in a political comeback in 2006 though he won the Republican nomination with 58 percent of the vote for the Place 2 seat on the Alabama Public Service Commission vacated by Democrat-turned Republican George Wallace Jr. Hooper defeated a former state senator, Democrat-turned-Republican John Amari, a lawyer from the Birmingham suburb of Trussville, to win the Republican nomination for the Public Service Commission. Hooper was thereafter defeated in the general election by the Democratic former state auditor, Susan Parker, 633,584 (53.5 percent), to 550,435 (46.4 percent). Amari served twenty years in both houses of the legislature and was elected in 2008 as a judge of the Alabama 10th Judicial Circuit Court. In the 2006 campaign, Hooper called Amari a \"RINO, a Republican in name only.\" Amari replied that Hooper \"might have been born in a Republican family, but [by] his conduct ... he has 'left his raising' as they say.\" \n\nIn 1987 at the age of thirty-three, Hooper was named \"Outstanding Young Man of Alabama\" by the Junior Chamber International. He received the Thomas Jefferson Free Enterprise Award from the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), a group of conservative lawmakers and businesses. A coach of youth athletics, Hooper is a former \"Man of the Year\" by the YMCA of Montgomery. He is affiliated with Kiwanis International, the Southern Development Council, and the Montgomery County Republican Committee.\n"}
{"id": "12696357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12696357", "title": "Protect America Act of 2007", "text": "Protect America Act of 2007\n\nThe Protect America Act of 2007 (PAA), (, enacted by ), is a controversial amendment to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) that was signed into law by U.S. President George W. Bush on August 5, 2007. It removed the warrant requirement for government surveillance of foreign intelligence targets \"reasonably believed\" to be outside the United States. The FISA Amendments Act of 2008 reauthorized many provisions of the Protect America Act in Title VII of FISA.\n\nIn December 2005, the \"New York Times\" published an article that described a surveillance program of warrantless domestic wiretapping ordered by the Bush administration and carried out by the National Security Agency in cooperation with major telecommunications companies since 2002 (a subsequent Bloomberg article suggested that this may have already begun by June 2000). Many critics have asserted that the Administration's warrant-free surveillance program is a violation of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution against warrantless search, and, a criminal violation of FISA.\n\nThe Bush administration maintained that the warrant requirements of FISA were implicitly superseded by the subsequent passage of the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists, and that the President's inherent authority under Article II of the Constitution to conduct foreign surveillance trumped the FISA statute. However, the Supreme Court decision in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" placed the legitimacy of this argument into question.\n\nOn July 28, 2007, President Bush announced that his Administration had submitted a bill to Congress to amend FISA. He suggested that the current law was \"badly out of date\" – despite amendments passed in October 2001 – and did not apply to disposable cell phones and Internet-based communications. The bill he submitted to Congress would address these new technologies, Bush said, as well as restore FISA's \"original focus\" on protecting the privacy of people within the United States, \"so we don't have to obtain court orders to effectively collect foreign intelligence about foreign targets located in foreign locations.\" He asked that Congress pass the legislation before its August 2007 recess, stating that \"Every day that Congress puts off these reforms increases the danger to our nation. Our intelligence community warns that under the current statute, we are missing a significant amount of foreign intelligence that we should be collecting to protect our country\".\n\nOn August 3, 2007, the Senate passed the bill (S. 1927) in a vote of 60 to 28(110th Congress 1st Session Vote 309). The House followed by passing the bill, 227–183 (House Roll Call 836) on August 3, 2007.\n\nThe bill altered the original 1978 law in many ways, including:\n\nThe bill amended FISA to substitute the requirement of a warrant to conduct surveillance with a system of NSA (National Security Agency) internal controls.\n\nThe bill required notification to the FISA Court of warrantless surveillance within 72 hours of any authorization. The bill also required that \"a sealed copy of the certification\" be sent which would \"remain sealed unless the certification is needed to determine the legality of the acquisition.\"\n\nThe bill allowed the monitoring of all electronic communications of \"Americans communicating with foreigners who are the targets of a U.S. terrorism investigation\" without a court's order or oversight, so long as it is not targeted at one particular person \"reasonably believed to be\" inside the country.\n\nThe Act removed the requirement for a FISA warrant for any communication which was foreign-related, even if the communication involved a U.S. location on the receiving or sending end of communication; all foreign-foreign communications were removed from warrant requirements, as well.\n\nExperts claimed that this deceptively opened the door to domestic spying, given that many domestic U.S. communications passed via non-US locations, by virtue of old telephony network configurations.\n\nIn the bill, the monitoring of data related to Americans communicating with persons (U.S citizens and non-citizens) outside the United States who are the targets of a U.S. government \"intelligence information gathering\" efforts was addressed. The Protect America Act differed from the FISA in that no discussion of actions or character judgment of the target was required for application of the statute (i.e., to receive a FISA surveillance warrant, a FISC foreign agent definition was required). This data could be monitored only if intelligence officials acted in the context of intelligence information gathering.\n\nNo mention of foreign agent status is made in the Protect America Act of 2007. Under prior FISA rules, persons targeted for surveillance must have been declared as foreign agents before a FISA warrant would be accorded by the FISC court.\n\nVastly marketed by U.S. federal and military agencies as a law to prevent terror attacks, the Protect America Act was actually a law focused on the 'acquisition' of desired intelligence information, of unspecified nature. The sole requirement is geolocation outside the United States at time of Directive invocation; pursuant to Authorization or Order invocation, surveillance Directives can be undertaken towards persons targeted for intelligence information gathering. Implementation of Directives can take place inside the United States or outside the United States.\n\nNo criminal or terrorism investigation of the person need be in play at time of the Directive. All that need be required is that the target be related to an official desire for intelligence information gathering for actions on part of persons involved in surveillance to be granted full immunity from U.S. criminal or civil procedures, under Section 105B(l) of the Act.\n\nUnder the bill, the director of national intelligence and the attorney general could authorize the surveillance of all communications involving persons outside the United States (U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens). The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, normally the venue for intelligence-related warrants, was limited in power by the Protect America Act to an accept or reject power for government guidelines related to persons (U.S. and non-U.S. citizens) targeted for \"intelligence information gathering\".\n\nThe Attorney General would report to Congress semi-annually with:\n\nSenator Mitch McConnell introduced the act on August 1, 2007, during the 110th United States Congress. On August 3, it was passed in the Senate with an amendment, 60–28 (record vote number 309). On August 4, it passed the House of Representatives 227–183 (roll number 836). On August 5, it was signed by President Bush, becoming Public Law No. 110-055. On February 17, 2008, it expired due to the sunset provision.\n\nThe Act provided for six months of time for new Directives to be issued;\n\nWhereas it is generally understood that the FISA Amendments of 2008 repealed the Protect America Act, this is not the case for existing directives and authorizations.\n\nSection 404 (Transition Procedures) allows for continuance of Protect America Act Sections 105A, 105B and 105C for all existing orders. So for authorizations for intelligence information and directives issued under such authorizations, Protect America Act application continues to apply.\n\nSection 404 (Continuance Procedures) allows for continued authorizations and directives to be renewed under same circumstances indefinitely; It also allowed for continuance of Immunities for persons and corporations (including but not limited to telecoms) under FISA 2008 Amendments.\n\nThe Protect America Act generated a great deal of controversy. Constitutional lawyers and civil liberties experts expressed concerns that the Act authorized massive, wide-ranging information gathering with no oversight. Whereas much focus was placed on communications, the Act allowed for information gathering of all shapes and forms. The ACLU called it the \"Police America Act\" – \"authorized a massive surveillance dragnet\", calling the blank-check oversight provisions \"meaningless,\" calling them a \"phony court review of secret procedures.\"\n\nIn January 2009, a United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review ruling was made in favor of the warrantless wiretapping role of the Protect America Act 2007, in a heavily redacted opinion released on January 15, 2009, which was only the second such public ruling since the enactment of the FISA Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "794242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794242", "title": "Public health law", "text": "Public health law\n\nPublic health law examines the authority of the government at various jurisdictional levels to improve the health of the general population within societal limits and norms. Public health law focuses on the duties of the government to achieve these goals, limits on that power, and the population perspective.\n\nPublic health law also focuses on legal issues in public health practice and on the public health effects of legal practice.\n\nPolice power can be defined as the inherent power of a government to exercise reasonable control over persons and property within its jurisdiction in the interest of the general security, health, safety, morals, and welfare except where legally prohibited. These areas perpetuate are employed by governmental agencies. Bioterrorism is a growing focus of this practice area in some jurisdictions; for example, public health lawyers in the United States have worked in the creation of the Model State Emergency Health Powers Act and the Model State Public Health Act.\n\nThis broader area of public health law applies legal tools to public health problems associated with disease and injury. Practitioners apply legislation, regulation, litigation (private enforcement), and international law to public health problems using the law as an instrument of public health. Litigation against tobacco companies in the United States provides an excellent example.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52179334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52179334", "title": "R (Miller) v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union", "text": "R (Miller) v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union\n\nR (Miller) v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union [2017] UKSC 5 is a legal case decided by the United Kingdom Supreme Court on 24 January 2017, which ruled that the UK Government (the executive) may not initiate withdrawal from the European Union by formal notification to the Council of the European Union as prescribed by Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union without an Act of the UK Parliament permitting the government to do so. Two days later, the government responded by bringing to Parliament the European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Bill 2017 for first reading in the House of Commons on 26 January 2017. The case is informally referred to as \"the \"Miller\" case\" or \"Miller's case\". \n\nThe Supreme Court's decision was given on appeal from the High Court's ruling that the Crown's foreign affairs prerogative, which is exercised by the government led by the Prime Minister, may not be used to nullify rights that Parliament has enacted through primary legislation. The case was seen as having constitutional significance in deciding the scope of the royal prerogative in foreign affairs. The Supreme Court also ruled that devolved legislatures in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have no legal right to veto the act. \n\nThe government's appeal was against the High Court order dated 7 November 2016 that formally declared: \"The Secretary of State does not have power under the Crown's prerogative to give notice pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union.\" The Supreme Court heard the appeal from 5 December 2016 to 8 December 2016, and, by a majority of 8–3, upheld the High Court ruling, finding that authorisation by Parliament was required for the invocation of Article 50.\n\nThe case was intervened by the Lord Advocate and the Counsel General for Wales for the Scottish and Welsh governments (respectively as \"the Scottish\" and \"Welsh Ministers\"), and applicants for judicial review in Northern Ireland also had their three separate applications considered together with this case, all of whom argued that the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales and the Northern Ireland Assembly all had to consent to the invocation of Article 50. In each case this was unanimously rejected by the court.\n\nFollowing a referendum held on 23 June 2016, in which 51.9% of votes cast were in favour of leaving the EU, the UK government stated its intention to invoke Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union (the formal procedure for withdrawing) on 29 March 2017. A week after the referendum, a columnist for \"The Times\", David Pannick QC, asked whether parliamentary approval was needed before notification could lawfully be given of the UK's intention to leave, and answered that an Act of Parliament is required. The government argued that the use of prerogative powers to enact the referendum result was constitutionally proper and consistent with domestic law whereas the opposing view was that prerogative powers could not be used to set aside rights previously established by Parliament.\n\nGina Miller and other claimants had sought permission to bring an action in the High Court for judicial review on whether the UK government was entitled to notify an intention to leave the European Union under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union (TEU), as amended (the Maastricht and Lisbon Treaties), without a vote or deliberative debate in Parliament. \n\nDavid Davis, the Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, argued that the possibility to trigger article 50 was based on the royal prerogative and so any consultation of elected members of parliament was unnecessary. Miller contended that, if notification under Article 50 were to be invoked to leave the European Union, it would effectively nullify a series of Acts of Parliament. It was a constitutional principle that Acts of Parliament could not be changed without the consent of Parliament.\n\nThe Secretary of State did not contend that the Referendum Act 2015 supplied a statutory power for the Crown to give notice under Article 50. The Court observed that he was right not to do so, because any argument to that effect would have been untenable as a matter of statutory interpretation of the 2015 Act and stated: \n\nThere was dispute over whether the decision to invoke Article 50 was the prerogative of the government, as the Cameron government argued, or whether it required Parliamentary approval. Article 50 states that \"Any Member State may decide to withdraw from the Union in accordance with its own constitutional requirements\".\n\nAs Professor Kenneth Armstrong (Professor of EU law at Cambridge University) points out this is a decision solely for domestic law: whether constitutional requirements have been met is a matter solely for the domestic law of member states. The UK's constitutional requirements for the valid invocation of Article 50 was the entire basis of this litigation, even though this was undertaken without explicit reference to that phrase as in Art 50(1) in the judgments. As will be seen below, it was held that the UK constitutional requirements were that an Act of Parliament needs be passed in order to bestow the power on the Secretary of State to invoke Article 50, as the European Communities Act 1972 had displaced the Royal prerogative to take the UK outside of the EU treaties.\n\nThe first of the parties to lodge a complaint in the proceedings against the government's intention to trigger Article 50 without a parliamentary vote was Deir Dos Santos, who launched his action four days after the referendum of 23 June. Miller's claim form was served on 29 July 2016. The law firm Mishcon de Reya announced that it had been retained by a group of clients to challenge the constitutionality of invoking Article 50 without Parliament debating it. However a spokesman for the law firm would not name any other businesses or individuals who were said to be backing her claim. In the proceedings, all parties accepted that withdrawal from the European Union will have profound consequences in terms of changing domestic law in each of the jurisdictions of the United Kingdom.\n\nAt the preliminary hearing on 19 July 2016 Sir Brian Leveson, President of the Queen's Bench Division, stated that the court gave leave to Dos Santos to stay his proceedings and join as an interested party in Miller's case, and others, such as a group of unnamed clients who were separately represented, would have the option to be interested parties in the claim or interveners. At the hearing lawyers for the government confirmed that the government would not issue an Article 50 notification before the end of 2016. In the court proceedings, the government contended that it would be constitutionally impermissible for the court to make a declaration in terms that the government could not lawfully issue notification under Article 50 unless authorised by an act of Parliament, and stated that the declaration now being opposed would trespass on proceedings in Parliament.\n\nQuestions were also raised over the impartiality of Lord Neuberger by Brexit MPs and \"The Daily Telegraph\" and the \"Daily Mail\", as his wife had made a series of tweets criticising Brexit. These allegations were countered by his spokesman, who said that Neuberger's wife's personal views had no effect on Neuberger's ability to interpret the law.\n\nAt the full hearing in October, before three judges sitting as a divisional court (the Lord Chief Justice, the Master of the Rolls and Lord Justice Sales), it was argued for the lead claimant (Miller) that notification under Article 50 would commit the UK to the removal of rights existing under the European Communities Act 1972 and later ratification acts, and that it is not open to the government, without Parliament's approval, to use the prerogative power to take action affecting rights which Parliament had recognised in that way. An argument put for the \"expat\" Interveners at the hearing was that by the 1972 Act, Parliament had conferred a legislative competence on the EU institutions, and in that way had changed the constitutional settlement in the UK.\n\nResponding in the opening submissions for the government, the Attorney-General (Jeremy Wright) outlined how the decision had been reached. In support of the contention that when passing the 2015 Act Parliament well knew of the Article 50 procedure for leaving the European Union if that was voted for in the referendum, he said that Parliament had previously dealt with it when the Lisbon Treaty was included in domestic law by the 2008 Act, and he took the court through the legislation dealing with the European Union and its predecessor, namely:\n\nIn further submissions for the government, the lead claimant's primary argument was said by Treasury Counsel (James Eadie) to be that it is not open to the executive to use the prerogative power in such a way as to affect or change current economic law, principally statute law; but the government contended that the leading case \"Attorney General v De Keyser's Royal Hotel\" meant that the question about the use of the royal prerogative depended on Parliament's legislative intention. The treaty ratification provisions of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 were in force from 11 November 2010, that is, after the Lisbon Treaty, including Article 50, was ratified for UK on 16 July 2008, and had come into force on 1 December 2009. While the Act describes \"treaty\" as an agreement between states, or between states and international organisations, which is binding under international law, including amendments to a treaty, and defines \"ratification\" as including acts (such as notification that domestic procedures have been completed) which establish as a matter of international law the United Kingdom's consent to be bound by the treaty, ratification of an amendment to a European Union treaty may involve compliance with the European Union (Amendment) Act 2008, and there are further provisions under the European Union Act 2011. The Lord Chief Justice described the statutory procedure as \"of critical importance\".\n\nThe hearing was concluded on 18 October, when the Lord Chief Justice said the judges would take time to consider the matter and give their judgments as quickly as possible.\n\nIn the meantime, the applications of other parties challenging the government in legal proceedings in Northern Ireland's High Court were dismissed on 28 October, but the court was prepared to grant leave to appeal in respect of four out of the five issues.\n\nThe court's unanimous judgment was delivered and published on 3 November. The decision was against the government's contention that the Crown's prerogative allowed giving Article 50 notice, and the court would later decide on the form of declaration it would make. The court described the passing of the European Communities Act 1972 as the major step of \"switching on the direct effect of EU law in the national legal systems\", and reasoned that it is implausible that Parliament's intention was that the Crown should be able to switch it off unilaterally by exercise of its prerogative powers.\n\nThe judgment stated that the question for the court's decision involved the constitutional law of the United Kingdom: it was whether the Crown's executive government is entitled to use the Crown's prerogative powers to give notice under Article 50 for the United Kingdom to cease to be a member of the European Union. The court held that the Government had no power to trigger notification under article 50 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU), because it would remove a series of rights created by Acts of Parliament. The principle of parliamentary sovereignty required that only Parliament could take away those rights. This is expressed in the \"Case of Proclamations\" (1608), the Bill of Rights 1688 section 1, and continually confirmed since in cases including \"Burmah Oil Co Ltd v Lord Advocate\", and \"R (Jackson) v Attorney General\". The Crown may not alter the domestic law of the UK or modify rights conferred by Parliament.\n\nThree categories of rights were\n\nWhile the Secretary of State accepted that category (iii) rights would be nullified, the High Court also ruled that all rights in categories (i) and (ii) would also be jeopardised in their effectiveness.\n\nThe case had come before the court as a \"rolled up\" hearing, so that both the application for permission to seek judicial review and the substantive merits of the claim were considered at the hearing. Formally, this meant that permission for full judicial review on the substantive merits was granted.\n\nThe High Court order dated 7 November 2016 declared: \"The Secretary of State does not have power under the Crown's prerogative to give notice pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union for the United Kingdom to withdraw from the European Union.\"\n\nThe High Court decision was met with mixed views in the daily press. \"The Daily Telegraph\" commented that the High Court ruling increased the prospect of an early general election, while the \"Financial Times\" and \"The Guardian\" reported the case as a \"blow\" or a \"setback\" to the UK government plans. The financial markets reacted by an increasing exchange rate for the pound sterling against the euro and the dollar, on speculation of a delayed or softer Brexit.\n\nOther news media attacked the presiding judges and questioned their impartiality, the \"Daily Mail\" calling them \"enemies of the people\", and on its website describing one judge as \"an openly gay ex-Olympic fencer\". \"The Guardian\" reported that MPs condemned newspaper attacks on the judges after their Brexit ruling.\n\nShadow Justice Secretary Richard Burgon condemned personal attacks from newspapers on the judges, describing them as \"hysterical\", and called on Lord Chancellor Liz Truss to speak out and protect them. Former attorney general Dominic Grieve described the attacks as \"entirely unjustified\", and said that \"[t]here seems to be a paranoid hysteria around that this is being done [to reverse] the referendum. But it's simply that there has to be a process followed if parliament is to give effect to and express the wish of the electorate.\" Brendan Cox, widower of Jo Cox, also expressed concern. The General Council of the Bar also called on Truss to condemn the attacks.\n\nThe oath of office (prescribed by the Constitutional Reform Act 2005) obliges a Lord Chancellor to respect the rule of law and defend the independence of the judiciary. On 5 November 2016, Truss issued a statement in which she said: \"The independence of the judiciary is the foundation upon which our rule of law is built and our judiciary is rightly respected the world over for its independence and impartiality.\" Her statement was in turn criticised as belated and inadequate. The oath of office for judges obliges them to \"well and truly serve\" the Queen and \"do right to all manner of people after the laws and usages\" of the realm \"without fear or favour, affection or ill will\".\n\nThe \"Telegraph\", in an editorial on 5 December 2016, expressed its regret that the High Court had heard the application at all, \"instead of deciding that it was not the business of the judiciary to get involved in what is essentially a political matter\" and its concern that \"by upholding the lower court's ruling, the Supreme Court justices could find themselves dictating to Parliament – an inversion of the normal constitutional order, with potential consequences for the notion that Parliament is sovereign and thus supreme\". \"The Guardian\" commented on 5 December 2016 that the unprecedented number of the panel of eleven justices who would be hearing the appeal and deciding the case was recognition of the constitutional significance and political sensitivity of the appeal.\n\nThe case, involving the government's appeal from the High Court of England and Wales and two references from Northern Ireland, was the first ever to be heard \"en banc\" by the full court (eleven justices, there being one vacancy). The Court scheduled the four days between 5 and 8 December 2016 for the hearing. Judgment was delivered on 24 January 2017. By a majority of the justices, the Supreme Court, with three dissenting, dismissed the government's appeal from the High Court, finding that an Act of Parliament was required to invoke Article 50.\n\nFor the Scottish government, Scotland's First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon, told the Lord Advocate to apply to join the case. Sturgeon maintained it \"simply cannot be right\" for EU rights to be \"removed by the UK Government on the say-so of a Prime Minister without parliamentary debate, scrutiny or consent\". She argued further that \"legislation should be required at Westminster and the consent of the Scottish Parliament should be sought before Article 50 is triggered\". On 18 November the Supreme Court announced that the Attorney General for Northern Ireland had made a reference to the court regarding devolution issues relating to that jurisdiction and that the court had granted the applications of four interveners to take part in the appeal, namely:\n\nThe BBC reported that the Lord Advocate would be addressing the court on Scots law, and the Welsh Counsel General's submissions would be addressing the court on the rule of law and parliamentary sovereignty.\n\nSpeaking on 9 November, Lady Hale, deputy president of the Supreme Court, stated that the issue in the case to be heard on appeal by the Court in December was whether giving Article 50 notification was within the Crown's prerogative powers for the conduct of foreign relations or whether the prerogative cannot be used in a way that undermines an act of the United Kingdom Parliament.\n\nIn the appeal the government argued that, while Parliament's enactment of the European Communities Act 1972 was necessary to prevent the UK breaching the EEC treaties when they came into force on 1 January 1973, the 1972 act was a legal precondition neither for the signature nor for the ratification of the Treaty of Accession, nor for the treaty coming into force in respect of the UK.\n\nIntervening for the Scottish government, the Lord Advocate stated as background that the UK \"acceded to the constitutional order of the Communities\" when joining on 1 January 1973 and argued that \"[t]he purported giving of notification under Article 50 TEU by unilateral act of [the UK government] would be unlawful\" because it would (\"inter alia\")\n\nBefore the hearing, the Supreme Court invited the public to view video footage of the entire proceedings, and provided on its website a page headed \"Article 50 'Brexit' Appeal\" with multiple links, giving a brief explanation of the issues to be considered and other information, and stating that in addition to live video feeds and 'on demand' catch-up video of each court session, transcripts would be available at the website on a half-daily basis (morning session by 4 pm, afternoon session around 7 pm).\n\nThe government's written case, prepared in advance of the hearing of the appeal, and subscribed by the Attorney General for England and Wales and the Advocate General for Scotland, included footnotes referring to legal comment, critical of the High Court's judgment, on pages of UK Constitutional Law Association and two other websites:\n\nA \"Daily Mail\" article published on 2 December drew attention to the part of the government's appeal case (paragraph 86) which stated that the reasoning of the High Court's judgment was wrong \"to relegate, almost to a footnote, the outcome of the referendum and to dismiss it as merely \"a political event\" which was of no significance to the question\" before the court. The next day \"The Daily Telegraph\" commented that ministers had accused the judges of relegating the referendum vote to a footnote and backing the claim that a vote from the House of Commons and House of Lords was now needed before UK and EU talks began. An opinion stated in a BBC website article (3 December 2016) was that there was little expectation of the High Court's ruling being reversed by the Supreme Court. Another BBC webpage summed up the Scottish government's contention, against the UK government's appeal, as arguing that the triggering of Article 50 will affect Scotland in a way that requires the involvement of the Scottish Parliament in the process.\n\nThe Supreme Court listed the appeal as \"R (on the application of Miller and Dos Santos) (Respondents) v Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union (Appellant)\" to be heard together with \"Reference by the Attorney General for Northern Ireland – In the matter of an application by Agnew and others for Judicial Review (Northern Ireland)\" and \"Reference by the Court of Appeal (Northern Ireland) – In the matter of an application by Raymond McCord for Judicial Review (Northern Ireland).\" The daily sessions of the hearing began on Monday, 5 December.\n\nIn the UK government's appeal from the High Court, the UK law officers and others, acting for the Secretary of State as the appellant, were instructed by the Government Legal Department; and the two respondents, Miller and Dos Santos, were represented by barristers and solicitors acting for them separately. Others listed as participating in the hearing were:\n\nThe Court published a table setting out the time allotted for the hearing of the oral arguments of the parties' advocates in the four days, Monday 5 to Thursday 8 December:\n\nBefore calling on the Attorney General to open the case for the government as Appellant, the Supreme Court President stated the justices were aware of the strong feelings associated with the many wider political questions surrounding the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union, but the appeal was concerned with the legal issues, and their duty was to consider those issues impartially and decide according to the law. He mentioned that all the parties involved in the proceedings had been asked whether they wished any of the justices to stand down, and each of them had stated that they had no objection to any of the eleven sitting on the appeal.\n\nAt the start of the government's oral submissions, the Attorney-General said the claimants had brought High Court proceedings perfectly properly and it was now perfectly proper for the Supreme Court to decide the appeal. The Appellant's submissions, apart from devolution issues to be addressed later by the Advocate General for Scotland, were summed up on the morning of the second day in a series of points:\nFollowing on, the Advocate General for Scotland ended his oral submissions for the Appellant by saying that if an exercise of the royal prerogative to take the UK out of the EU were seen as an abuse of power after the 1972 Act, there could be no such abuse after the Referendum Act 2015 and the result of the referendum was known: \"It is simply a question of whether it would be proper and appropriate for the executive to exercise the prerogative in particular circumstances, and the circumstances that we have to address are those which exist today in light of the 2015 Act, which is of considerable constitutional importance and the decision made in the referendum, knowing that if Parliament wanted to intervene and limit the exercise of that prerogative right, it is free to do so and has chosen to remain silent.\"\n\nFor the Respondent Miller it was argued that the Court should not accept that the legal limits on ministers' powers are to be left to or influenced by political control, or parliamentary control, short of an act of Parliament. For the Respondent Dos Santos it was submitted that the legislature could easily have said what effect the 2015 referendum was if it wanted to tell us, but it has not told us, and the courts should not try and guess what the legislature intended, but instead leave it to the legislature to decide; and that, as there is no parliamentary authorisation for the loss of rights resulting from withdrawal from the EU, whether under the 2015 Act, or any other legislation which has been passed by Parliament, the government's appeal should be dismissed.\nThe Welsh Government submitted that the UK Government's proposed Article 50 notification would be an unlawful dispensation by the Crown of the provisions establishing the competence of the Welsh Assembly.\n\nIn response to submissions of parties opposing the appeal and questions put by the Justices, it was said for the government that the question before the court was about \"the present state of the division of responsibility between our pillars of state, legislative, executive, and indeed judicial, and that demands a current answer and not a historic one\"; and that parliament's legislation was to implement UK treaty obligations, not to control the government's exercise of the royal prerogative on the international plane.\n\nClosing the hearing, the Court President said that the appeal raised important constitutional issues, and the Justices would take time to give full consideration to the many arguments presented to them, orally and in writing, and they would do their best to resolve the case as quickly as possible.\n\nThe Supreme Court held by eight judges to three that only Parliament could authorise a notification under TEU Article 50 to be given to the European Commission, upholding the High Court. However, all judges found unanimously that neither the Sewel Convention, nor the Northern Ireland Act 1998 and the Good Friday Agreement, legally required the consent of the Scottish Parliament, the National Assembly for Wales or the Northern Ireland Assembly to trigger article 50.\n\nThe majority judgment said the following.\n\nAfter the government's appeal was dismissed, the Secretary of State for Exiting the EU formally introduced in Parliament, on 26 January 2017, a bill that, on 16 March, was enacted without amendment as the European Union (Notification of Withdrawal) Act 2017. The act's long title is \"To Confer power on the Prime Minister to notify, under Article 50(2) of the Treaty on European Union, the United Kingdom's intention to withdraw from the EU\". The act's two sections are to confer on the Prime Minister the power of giving the notice that the Treaty requires to be given when a member state decides to withdraw.\n\n"}
{"id": "11095055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11095055", "title": "Routing Assets Database", "text": "Routing Assets Database\n\nRouting Assets Database (RADb), also expanded as Routing Arbiter Database, run by Merit Network, is a lookup database designed to make fundamental information about networks available. The RADb is a public registry of routing information for networks in the Internet. It was developed in the early 1990s as part of the National Science Foundation (NSF)-funded Routing Arbiter Project. The acronym is frequently seen written in all caps (RADB) but its official usage is the following mixed case (RADb).\n\nSome Internet service providers require customers to be registered in some RADb prior to making BGP announcements.\n\nAmong other things, the registry validates the origin of each announcement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "197742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197742", "title": "Sambucus", "text": "Sambucus\n\nSambucus is a genus of flowering plants in the family Adoxaceae. The various species are commonly called elder or elderberry. The genus was formerly placed in the honeysuckle family, Caprifoliaceae, but was reclassified as Adoxaceae due to genetic and morphological comparisons to plants in the genus \"Adoxa\".\n\nThe oppositely arranged leaves are pinnate with 5–9 leaflets (rarely 3 or 11). Each leaf is long, and the leaflets have serrated margins. They bear large clusters of small white or cream-colored flowers in late spring; these are followed by clusters of small black, blue-black, or red berries (rarely yellow or white).\n\nThe genus occurs in temperate to subtropical regions of the world. More widespread in the Northern Hemisphere, its Southern Hemisphere occurrence is restricted to parts of Australasia and South America. Many species are widely cultivated for their ornamental leaves, flowers and fruit.\n\nSpecies recognized in this genus are:\n\nOrnamental varieties of \"Sambucus\" are grown in gardens for their showy flowers, fruits and lacy foliage. Native species of elderberry are often planted by people wishing to support native butterfly and bird species.\n\nElderberry fruit or flowers are used as dietary supplements for minor diseases such as flu, colds, constipation, and other conditions, often served as a tea, extract, or in a capsule. There is insufficient research to know its effectiveness for such uses, or its safety profile - however, no illnesses caused by elderflower have been reported.\n\nRaw elderberries are 80% water, 18% carbohydrates, and less than 1% each of protein and fat (table). In a 100 gram amount, elderberries supply 73 calories and are a rich source of vitamin C, providing 43% of the Daily Value (DV). Elderberries also have moderate contents of vitamin B6 (18% DV) and iron (12% DV), with no other nutrients in significant content (table).\n\nThe French, Austrians and Central Europeans produce elderflower syrup, commonly made from an extract of elderflower blossoms, which in central Europe is added to Palatschinken filling instead of blueberries. People throughout much of Central, Eastern, and Southeastern Europe use a similar method to make a syrup which is diluted with water and used as a drink or as a flavoring in several food products. Fruit pies and relishes are produced with berries. Romanians produce a traditional soft drink in May and June called \"socată\" or \"suc de soc\". It is produced by letting the flowers macerate with water, yeast and lemon for 2–3 days. The last stage of fermentation is done in a closed pressure proof bottle to produce a fizzy drink. The beverage has also inspired Coca-Cola to launch an elderflower-based drink, Fanta Shokata.\n\nThe flowers of \"Sambucus nigra\" are used to produce elderflower cordial. St-Germain, a French liqueur, is made from elderflowers. Hallands Fläder, a Swedish akvavit, is flavoured with elderflowers. Despite the similarity in name, the Italian liqueur sambuca is mostly made with star anise and fennel essential oils extracted by vapor distillation. It also contains elderflower extracts with which it is flavored to add a floral note, to smooth and round off the strong licorice flavor.\n\nHollowed elderberry twigs have traditionally been used as spiles to tap maple trees for syrup.\n\nAlthough the ripe, cooked berries (pulp and skin) of most species of \"Sambucus\" are edible, uncooked berries and other parts of plants from this genus are poisonous. Leaves, twigs, branches, seeds, roots, flowers, and berries of \"Sambucus\" plants produce cyanidin glycosides and alkaloids, which have toxic properties. Ingesting a sufficient quantity of cyanidin glycosides and alkaloids from berry juice, flower tea, or beverages made from fresh leaves, branches, and fruit has been shown to cause illness, including nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and weakness. In August 1983, a group of twenty-five people in Monterey County, California became suddenly ill by ingesting elderberry juice pressed from fresh, uncooked \"Sambucus mexicana\" berries, leaves, and stems. The density of flavonoids (including cyanidin glycosides) is higher in tea made from flowers than it is in berries, and overall density of cyanidin glycosides is lower in flowers and berries collected from low-altitude trees compared to those at higher elevations.\n\nElderberries are rich in anthocyanidins that combine to give elderberry juice an intense blue-purple coloration that turns reddish on dilution with water. These pigments are used as colorants in various products, and \"elderberry juice color\" is listed by the USFDA as allowable in certified organic food products. In Japan, elderberry juice is listed as an approved \"natural color additive\" under the Food and Sanitation Law. Fibers can be dyed with elderberry juice (using alum as a mordant) to give a light \"elderberry\" color.\n\nAlthough practitioners of traditional medicine have used black elderberry for hundreds of years, including as wine intended for treating rheumatism and pain from traumatic injury, there is no scientific evidence that such practices have any beneficial effect. Additionally, black elderberry has been utilized as a treatment for flu symptoms. While some preliminary research indicates that elderberry may relieve flu symptoms, the evidence is not strong enough to support its use for this purpose.\n\nIn Northern California, elderberries are a food for migrating band-tailed pigeons. Elders are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including brown-tail, buff ermine, dot moth, emperor moth, engrailed moth, swallow-tailed moth and the V-pug. The crushed foliage and immature fruit have a strong fetid smell. Valley elderberry longhorn beetles in California are very often found around red or blue elderberry bushes. Females lay their eggs on the bark. The pith of elder has been used by watchmakers for cleaning tools before intricate work.\n\nElder commonly grows near farms and homesteads. It is a nitrogen-dependent plant and thus is generally found near places of organic waste disposal. Elders are often grown as a hedgerow plant in Britain since they take very fast, can be bent into shape easily and grow quite profusely, thus having gained the reputation of being 'an instant hedge'. It is not generally affected by soil type or pH level and will virtually grow anywhere sufficient sunlight is available.\n\nFolklore related to elder trees is extensive and can vary according to region. In some myths, the elder tree is thought to ward off evil and give protection from witches, while other beliefs say that witches often congregate under the plant, especially when it is full of fruit. If an elder tree was cut down, a spirit known as the Elder Mother would be released and take her revenge. The tree could only safely be cut while chanting a rhyme to the Elder Mother.\n\nMade from the branch of an elder tree, the Elder Wand plays a pivotal role in the final book of the \"Harry Potter\" series, which was nearly named \"Harry Potter and the Elder Wand\" before author J. K. Rowling decided on \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1365173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1365173", "title": "Sewage regulation and administration", "text": "Sewage regulation and administration\n\nSewage disposal regulation and administration describes the governance of sewage disposal and treatment.\n\nSewage treatment systems in the United States are subject to the Clean Water Act (CWA) and are regulated by federal and state environmental agencies. In most states, local sewage plants receive discharge permits from state agencies; in the remaining states and territories, permits are issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The treatment plants, known as publicly owned treatment works (POTW) in CWA parlance, must protect the health and welfare of the local population by ensuring that wastewater does not contaminate the local potable water supply, nor violate additional water quality standards that protect the ecological health of the water body. \n\nThe basic national standard for U.S. municipal treatment plants is the Secondary Treatment Regulation. Most plants in the U.S. must meet this secondary treatment standard. The permit authority (state agency or EPA) can compel a POTW to meet a higher standard, if there are applicable water quality standards for the receiving water body. For water bodies with stringent standards, such as Lake Tahoe, POTWs must treat their discharges to tertiary treatment levels, and then pump all treated water out of the drainage basin so that no effluent ever drains to a certain body of water. Such higher standards may require the POTW to construct improvements to its plant(s). If not in compliance with its permit and regulations, POTWs may be subject to heavy fines. Regulation is therefore often the driving force behind increasing sewage treatment costs in the United States, and is directly linked to the high cost of constructing or expanding a sewage treatment facility.\n\nMany large cities in the U.S. operate combined sewers, which collect sewage and stormwater runoff in a single pipe system leading to the treatment plant. Combined sewers can cause serious water pollution problems due to combined sewer overflows, which are caused by large variations in flow between dry and wet weather. These overflows can lead to violation of the Secondary Treatment Regulation and/or water quality standards. Discharge permits for these POTWs typically have additional requirements that require facility improvements to reduce or eliminate the overflows.\n\nIn England and Wales, Ofwat regulates charges and service standards. In England environmental standards and their achievement for sewage disposal are regulated by the Environment Agency. In Wales environmental regulation is undertaken by Natural Resources Wales. In Scotland the Scottish Environment Protection Agency fulfils the environmental regulation role and the Water Industry Commission for Scotland undertakes the economic regulatory role.\n\nSewer systems are usually administered on the local level, usually citywide, and usually by the city itself. These systems, which may operate independently or as a subdivision of a city or other municipal agency, are typically operated as \"Enterprises\", meaning that they produce enough revenues to fund their own activities.\n\nRevenues are usually generated through two charges to customers: \"connection fees\" and \"use charges\". Connection fees are charged once to new customers as they connect to the sanitary sewer collection system, and are usually designed to recover capital investments made by the enterprise to serve its customers. Use charges are periodic charges for ongoing use of the system, and are designed to recover operations and maintenance expenses. Both connection fees and use charges are typically proportionate to the amount and strength of wastewater expected to be generated by each customer. Therefore, a single family residence would pay much smaller fees and charges than a food processing plant.\n\nSome POTWs are eligible for low-interest loans to finance system improvements, from the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. This program is administered by EPA and state agencies, using a combination of federal and state funds.\n\nIn England sewerage and sewage disposal is undertaken by relatively few large private companies, including several multi-national companies. In Wales and Scotland a \"not for profit\" company is the responsible body, however in Wales almost all the operational work is sub-contracted by others. Charges to domestic users are based either on the metered volume of incoming water or on the notional value of the property (rateable basis).\n\n"}
{"id": "39379049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39379049", "title": "Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925", "text": "Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925\n\nThe Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 was a piece of legislation in British India which legally defined Sikh identity and brought Sikh gurdwaras (houses of worship) under the control of an elected body of orthodox Sikhs.\n\nPrior to 1925, a large proportion of the gurdwaras in India were under the control of clergy of the Udasi denomination of Sikhism. The Udasi differed from their mainline Sikh congregants, and due to differences in theology (such as syncretic Hindu practises) as well as some instances of malfeasance were seen as allowing or committing behaviours unsuitable for a gurdwara. By the 1920s, resentment of this perceived corruption led to the foundation of the Akali Movement which negotiated or forced Udasi mahants (religious heads) out of control of key gurdwaras.\n\nAmong the issues addressed by the legislation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "455771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455771", "title": "Subsidiarity", "text": "Subsidiarity\n\nSubsidiarity is a principle of social organization that holds that social and political issues should be dealt with at the most immediate (or local) level that is consistent with their resolution. \n\nSubsidiarity is perhaps presently best known as a general principle of European Union law.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines subsidiarity as \"the principle that a central authority should have a subsidiary function, performing only those tasks which cannot be performed at a more local level\". The concept is applicable in the fields of government, political science, neuropsychology, cybernetics, management and in military command (mission command). Subsidiarity is a general principle of European Union law. In the United States of America, the principle of States' Rights is enshrined in the constitution. Although the principle is older, its expression in the term \"subsidiarity\" was first coined in 1891 by the Roman Catholic Church for its social teaching.\n\nThe OED adds that the term \"subsidiarity\" in English follows the early German usage of \"Subsidiarität\". More distantly, it is derived from the Latin verb \"subsidio\" (to aid or help), and the related noun \"subsidium\" (aid or assistance). The concept as discussed here was first described formally in Catholic social teaching. Coupled with another Christian democratic principle, sphere sovereignty, subsidiarity is said to have led to the creation of corporatist welfare states throughout the world.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville's classic study, \"Democracy in America\", may be viewed as an examination of the operation of the principle of subsidiarity in early 19th century America. De Tocqueville noted that the French Revolution began with \"a push towards decentralization ... in the end, an extension of centralization\". He wrote that \"Decentralization has, not only an administrative value, but also a civic dimension, since it increases the opportunities for citizens to take interest in public affairs; it makes them get accustomed to using freedom. And from the accumulation of these local, active, persnickety freedoms, is born the most efficient counterweight against the claims of the central government, even if it were supported by an impersonal, collective will.\"\nAs Christian Democratic political parties were formed, they adopted the Catholic social teaching of subsidiarity, as well as the neo-Calvinist theological teaching of sphere sovereignty, with both Protestants and Roman Catholics agreeing \"that the principles of sphere sovereignty and subsidiarity boiled down to the same thing\".\n\nThe term \"subsidiarity\" is also used to refer to a tenet of some forms of conservative or libertarian thought in the United States. For example, conservative author Reid Buckley writes:\nWill the American people never learn that, as a principle, to expect swift response and efficiency from government is fatuous? Will we never heed the principle of subsidiarity (in which our fathers were bred), namely that no public agency should do what a private agency can do better, and that no higher-level public agency should attempt to do what a lower-level agency can do better – that to the degree the principle of subsidiarity is violated, first local government, the state government, and then federal government wax in inefficiency? Moreover, the more powers that are invested in government, and the more powers that are wielded by government, the less well does government discharge its primary responsibilities, which are (1) defence of the commonwealth, (2) protection of the rights of citizens, and (3) support of just order.\n\nThe United Nations Development Programme's 1999 report on decentralisation noted that subsidiarity was an important principle. It quoted one definition:\n\nDecentralization, or decentralising governance, refers to the restructuring or reorganisation of authority so that there is a system of co-responsibility between institutions of governance at the central, regional and local levels according to the principle of subsidiarity, thus increasing the overall quality and effectiveness of the system of governance, while increasing the authority and capacities of sub-national levels.\nAccording to Richard Macrory, the positive effects of a political/economic system governed by the principle of subsidiarity include:\n\n\nHe writes that the negative effects of a political/economic system governed by the principle of subsidiarity include:\n\n\nSubsidiarity is perhaps presently best known as a general principle of European Union law. According to this principle, the EU may only act (i.e. make laws) where action of individual countries is insufficient. The principle was established in the 1992 Treaty of Maastricht. However, at the local level it was already a key element of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, an instrument of the Council of Europe promulgated in 1985 (see Article 4, Paragraph 3 of the Charter) (which states that the exercise of public responsibilities should be decentralised). Subsidiarity is related in essence to, but should not be confused with, the concept of a margin of appreciation.\n\nSubsidiarity was established in EU law by the Treaty of Maastricht, which was signed on 7 February 1992 and entered into force on 1 November 1993. The present formulation is contained in Article 5(3) of the Treaty on European Union (consolidated version following the Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009):\nUnder the principle of subsidiarity, in areas which do not fall within its exclusive competence, the Union shall act only if and in so far as the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, either at central level or at regional and local level, but can rather, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at Union level.\n\nA more descriptive analysis of the principle can be found in Protocol 2 to the European Treaties.\n\nThe Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg is the authority that has to decide whether a regulation falls within the exclusive competence of the Union, as defined by the Treaty of European Union and its predecessors. As the concept of subsidiarity has a political as well as a legal dimension, the Court of Justice has a reserved attitude toward judging whether EU legislation is consistent with the concept. The Court will examine only marginally whether the principle is fulfilled. A detailed explanation of the legislation is not required; it is enough that the EU institutions explain why national legislation seems inadequate and that Union law has an added value.\n\nAn example is the judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a legal action taken by the Federal Republic of Germany against the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union concerning a Directive on deposit guarantee schemes (13 May 1997). Germany argued that the Directive did not explain how it was compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The Court answered:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52133214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52133214", "title": "TD Trump Deutschland", "text": "TD Trump Deutschland\n\nTD Trump Deutschland AG (German for \"TD Trump Germany AG\") was a venture by Donald Trump planning to trade and build skyscrapers in Germany. In cooperation with Hamburg, The Trump Organization agreed in August 2000 to found TD Trump Deutschland AG with a common capital stock of , split equally as 2 million for each partner company.\n\nTD Trump Deutschland AG initially planned to build a residential tower in Berlin's central Alexanderplatz area. Trump's German business partner Hans Ulrich Gruber described Trump's aim as \"to build a bridge between Berlin and New York.\" However, his plan for the tallest building in Germany in the capital city was stymied by Berlin's relatively low (150 m) limit for new building height. \n\nThe company settled on (Stuttgart) for the construction of what was to be a 55-story (220 m tall) building named Trump Tower, which would have been the highest building in south Germany. The project investment was estimated at 250 million Euro. Plans by architect for the project were presented in October 2001.\n\nIn January 2003, the city of Stuttgart finally refused the permission to build the tower, foreseeing that TD Trump Deutschland AG could not solve its difficulties in securing necessary financing.\n\nThe company was dissolved in April 2005.\n\n\nTD Trump Deutschland AG brought a suit against the city of Stuttgart for compensation following the city's decision to rescind permission to build the tower. The company lost that lawsuit in 2004.\n\nOn 22 December 2004, Marseille-Kliniken AG filed a lawsuit against the Trump Organization in the regional court of Landgericht Berlin. In the initial formation of the two companies' partnership, payment of the share capital of EUR 2 million by Trump Organization Inc. was pre-financed by Marseille-Kliniken AG. Subsequently, the suit claimed, the Trump Organization did not comply with its contractual obligations of the partnership formation. Marseille-Kliniken AG thus asked for repayment of the EUR 2 million it had pre-financed for Trump. The lawsuit was filed in New York.\n\nIn June 2005 the German state attorney prosecuted TD Trump Deutschland AG for alleged accounting fraud.\n\n"}
