{"id": "58036137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58036137", "title": "Anthony Steinbock", "text": "Anthony Steinbock\n\nAnthony J. Steinbock is an American philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at Southern Illinois University Carbondale. He is the Director of the Phenomenology Research Center and Editor-in-Chief of \"Continental Philosophy Review\". Steinbock is known for his research on phenomenology.\n\n• Translation of Edmund Husserl, Analyses Concerning Passive and Active Syntheses: Lectures on Transcendental Logic, Husserliana Collected Works, IX (Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001), pp. 659 + lx “Translator’s Introduction.”\n\n"}
{"id": "39156806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39156806", "title": "Armand Laroche", "text": "Armand Laroche\n\nArmand Laroche (1826 – 1903), also known as Amand Laroche, was a French painter, who specialized in portraits and genre painting.\n\nBorn in Saint-Cyr-l'École (Seine-et-Oise). Arman Laroche was studying at and École des beaux-arts de Paris, he was student of and Michel Martin Drolling. He took part in the Paris Salon every year from 1846 up to 1903. He was awarded a bronze medal at the Exposition Universelle (1889), and an honourable mention at the Exposition Universelle (1900).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22462670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22462670", "title": "Bookwars", "text": "Bookwars\n\nBookWars is an award-winning independent film from New York City by Jason \"Jack RO\" Rosette produced by Camerado, about the life and times of New York City street booksellers. Made on an ultra-low budget in a jazzy, impressionistic style reminiscent of the films of Robert Frank and poetry of the Beat Generation, \"BookWars\" is the only first-person documentary made during then-New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's controversial \"Quality of Life\" campaign, which sought to limit and control individuals engaged in informal economic activities on the streets of New York City.\n\n\"BookWars\" was released in June 2000, winning the Best Documentary Award at the 2000 New York Underground Film Festival IndieWire and premiering theatrically at New York's Cinema Village . Despite its minuscule budget (estimated at $10,000, prerelease) \"BookWars\" enjoyed numerous domestic and international TV sales and has to date generated revenue of several hundred thousand dollars.\n\nThe movie is currently available on DVD, VOD, VCD (Asia), digital download, YouTube, theatrical film prints, and other formats.\n\n\"\"BookWars\" is: The gritty, untamed world of street booksellers, exposed in a remarkable feature film that chronicles their lives and loves and their unique perspectives on life. Shot entirely on location by fellow street bookseller and filmmaker Jason Rosette, and produced by James and John Montoya, Alan Fulford and filmmaker Michel Negroponte, \"BookWars\" explores the other side of the book tables that line the streets of New York City’s Greenwich Village, the Lower East Side, 6th avenue, and elsewhere in New York City.\"\n\n\"BookWars\" is a creative documentary which is told in an unconventional, narrative style. The film opens with the narrator (who is also the film's director) driving out West along a desert highway, relating to the audience his previous experiences as a streetside bookseller in New York City. The entire documentary – including the central events involving his experiences among the street booksellers in New York – is thus \"told\" as a long conversation.\n\nThe narrator describes his post-graduation years in New York, and how he ended up at one point virtually penniless. Driven by a desperate need to pay the rent, he resorts to wheeling his own books out to the street to try to sell them. He reveals that he was not only successful in making a significant amount of cash on that first day, but he has also met a variety of interesting and strange characters of the streets of New York – including other street booksellers.\n\nA motley assortment of street booksellers on West 4th street, in Greenwich Village, New York City, are first introduced. Among them: “Slick” Rick Sherman, a semi-professional magician; Al Mappo, so named because he only sells maps and atlases; Emil, who says only he \"escaped”, though we do not know from where; and Pete Whitney: King of the booksellers, toad collector, and collage artist.\n\n\"BookWars\" next introduces another group of street booksellers who hawk their trade on nearby 6th Avenue. Mainly black and minority individuals, they ply books and magazines in parallel fashion to the nearby West 4th street booksellers, who are primarily white. The booksellers on 6th Avenue suffer greater exposure to the law, with many claiming this to be due to racial profiling.\n\nSome of the significant personalities that are introduced on 6th Avenue include: Marvin, always wearing his trademark black hat; and Ron, from Jamaica – charismatic, streetwise and outspoken.\n\nAfter the introduction of the primary characters (including the narrator bookseller himself), \"BookWars\" discusses, mainly through informal testimony, the various aspects of the street bookseller’s life in chapter-by-chapter fashion.\n\nThe tools and tricks of the street bookseller's trade are revealed: ways and techniques to maximize income; how to deal with difficult, and sometimes dangerous customers; where and how to get more books; how the booksellers have a right to distribute literature (commercially or otherwise) in public, as per the First Amendment to the United States Constitution; and so on.\n\n\"BookWars\" is structured as a “year in the life” style movie, although it was actually produced over several seasons, from 1995 to 1999. When Winter comes, and the streets are too snow-filled and cold to hawk books, the booksellers are shown in their various off-season modes and occupations. “Slick” Rick performs card and magic tricks at parties; Pete Whitney grooms cats for old ladies; and the narrator heads out to New Mexico to work on a Western*.\n\nMarv and Ron, however, continue to sell books throughout the winter on busy 6th Avenue, and the film follows them as they scour for books and pornographic magazines in the trash in Soho.\n\nFinally, Spring comes, and the booksellers emerge from their off-season to sell books as usual for another season – or so they think. \"BookWars\" proceeds to reveal the street-level effects of then-New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani’s controversial “Quality of Life” campaign, which sought to remove informal, unregistered entrepreneurs and other individuals from the streets of New York City.\n\nThe NYPD begins to enforce obscure technicalities which govern the uses and dimensions of the sidewalks, thereby making it more difficult to earn a livelihood. A new tax identification number requirement is introduced, creating bureaucratic obstacles, especially for those street booksellers who are marginal or virtually homeless. Nearby New York University unlawfully places imposing, massive planters on the sidewalk in an attempt to drive the street booksellers away; and finally, especially on 6th Avenue where the majority of black street booksellers are active, the NYPD comes to haul away books.\n\nThe street booksellers resist and assemble to form an unlikely common front to protest against the actions of the city. Others, who have had their books confiscated, wait for hours at the police station to get them back. Still others, like Ron, rail against the futility of the city's efforts to stop New Yorkers from reading, because of their virtual addiction to books.\n\nIn the end, the street booksellers stand their ground against the Mayor, and are able to continue selling with minor adjustments to their way of life.\n\nIn the closing moments of \"BookWars\", the narrator admits that after all the recent problems with the city, he has grown restless; he realizes that he wants to do something different, and wants to change his occupation at last. A single massive rainstorm is enough to convince him to give up his street bookselling activities.\n\nHe sells the last of his books off to his fellow street booksellers, and heads out West, on a cross-country road trip, with the audience in the passenger seat sharing the ride.\n\nThe Street Booksellers of New York City\n\nThe concept for \"BookWars\" was developed after a chance meeting between filmmaker Jason Rosette—who had been selling used and out of print books at a streetside bookstand to generate cash between film production and editing jobs—and Emmy Award-winning New York-based documentary filmmaker Michel Negroponte, at Mr. Rosette’s sidewalk bookstand in 1995. \n\nMr. Rosette and fellow bookseller 'Slick' Rick Sherman had already been bringing a video camera on occasion to the book stand to document fellow booksellers and day-to-day life on the streets and sidewalks of New York. With a documentary concept in place, he began to bring a video camera daily to document the sights and sounds of the city of New York as seen from the perspective of a sidewalk bookseller. Because this initial phase of shooting was funded completely out of pocket, \"BookWars\" was produced in a variety of film and video formats depending on whatever camera was available at the time. Formats included: Mini DV, Super 8 film, Regular 8 and Hi-8 video, and Super VHS. The aesthetic goals of immediacy and a natural, unobtrusive presence of the camera also demanded the use of small format film and video.\n\nInitial shooting was financed by the sale of the various used and out-of-print books at the filmmaker's bookstand. As more books were sold, more film and video stock could be bought, and production would continue.\n\nFollowing the initial stage of shooting in New York, the director drove from New York to New Mexico where he had edited an earlier movie at a colleague's Albuquerque-based production studio. In New Mexico in 1996, the first assembly of the movie, called \"The Book Wars\", was edited on a tape-to-tape analogue system; that rough assembly was screened for the first time in on Super Bowl Sunday as part of an exhibition produced by Basement Films of Albuquerque.\n\nGiven that desktop editing solutions were not widely used or available at the time - and were expensive to rent - the filmmaker next drove out to Los Angeles with the assembly edit in hand, in order to attempt to secure access to one of the two primary nonlinear systems available at the time – an Avid or Media 100 system.\n\nWhile the filmmaker sought post-production equipment in Los Angeles, a San Francisco- based production company, S.A.I.D. Communications, viewed the assembly edit of \"BookWars\" and agreed to provide additional editing and production in order to complete the picture. Mr. Rosette subsequently departed Los Angeles for San Francisco, and commenced to work on editing the documentary there full-time.\n\nThere was no up-front money to continue editing and still no funding, so the director worked a variety of jobs to sustain himself and production of the movie, working as a freelance film editor, voice-over artist, and an assortment of temporary and odd jobs.\n\nA rough cut of \"BookWars\" was finally achieved in 1998. However, additional material was required to create a coherent feature edit. S.A.I.D Communications provided a camera on loan, and the director headed back to New York to spend time once again with his fellow booksellers to continue documenting their lives.\n\nAfter this second stage of shooting in New York was complete, in 1998, the director returned to San Francisco to include the additional essential sequences in the final edit. While the filmmaker was away, however, S.A.I.D. had already commenced postproduction on another documentary called \"Live Nude Girls Unite\", and the \"BookWars\" team had to defer to their stripper-activist production colleagues.\n\nThe filmmaker had by now spent nearly three years in San Francisco, endeavoring to complete \"BookWars\" without having received any grants or external funding. A grant administrator from The Pacific Pioneer Fund explained that, while he considered \"BookWars\" to be a worthy and compelling project, he felt that the filmmaker “would have to be a genius to pull it off” (funding was denied).\n\nAt the same time, Beat writer and publisher Lawrence Ferlinghetti of City Lights Bookstore viewed the cut of \"BookWars\", and applauded it as being “Anarchistic”.\n\nDelays continued and post production paused while an online editing system in the San Francisco area was sought, unsuccessfully. Finally, co-producer Michel Negroponte contacted the filmmaker regarding an editing station that had become available in New York City; payment to the machine’s owners at Copacetic Pictures could be deferred until the movie was completed and sold.\n\nThe filmmaker thus drove back to New York to complete the final edit of the documentary. During this time, German-French broadcasting group Arte/ZDF received the nearly-completed cut of the \"BookWars\" and committed to purchasing the hour-long broadcast version for airing, while providing an advance to enable completion of the final edit, mix, narration, and postproduction of the program. Shortly after announcing this key initial TV sale, The Playboy Foundation and the Experimental TV Center subsequently awarded modest postproduction grants.\n\nThe work in progress of \"BookWars\" screened at the Independent Feature Project’s Independent Feature Film Market, while the nearly complete fine cut of \"BookWars\" screened at the New Filmmakers, New York series at Anthology Film Archives in the Spring of 2000.\n\nSeveral months later, the final theatrical version of \"Bookwars\" was completed. The movie had its world premiere at the 2000 New York Underground Film Festival, where it won the Best Documentary Award. Though the filmmaker was subsequently banned from the festival venue (Anthology Film Archives) due to over-zealous guerilla promotional activities, the \"BookWars\" nonetheless soon enjoyed a New York theatrical premiere at the Cinema Village Cinema Village Website, and went on to screen theatrically and air at numerous international and domestic channels and venues.\n\nIn total, production of \"BookWars\" had taken five years and 20,000 miles of driving across the USA to complete.\n\nThere are no formal interviews in \"BookWars\" although the booksellers at times speak informally to the filmmaker. There are no subtitles or title cards within the film itself either, except for the opening titles and credits. Rather, the narrator's voiceover is designed to take over this role while conveying a more intimate, personal quality to the story.\n\nPrimary influences in the making of the movie were the Beat classic film, Pull My Daisy and other street-level compositions by filmmaker Robert Frank and various works from the New American Cinema. The narration style was adopted from 1930-40’s American gangster and film noir movies, and some Western genre elements were included as well – particularly in the conceptual story component of a “man heading out West to start anew”.\n\n\"BookWars\" veers stylistically from straight or journalistic documentaries through its use of creative devices. Slow motion is often employed, the narration is non-standard, the movie follows a distinct narrative structure, and dream sequences are utilized. Often, the subjects of the documentary take over as camera operators and record themselves and their surroundings at will.\n\nOriginal soundtrack elements were provided by swamp-blues practitioner, Little Muddy , while pre-recorded compositions by legendary Jazz players, Willis Jackson and Jack McDuff were licensed from the 32 Jazz label.\n\n\"BookWars\" has screened at festivals, theatrical venues, and broadcast outlets including: NHK (Japan), SVT (Sweden) Sveriges Television, PBS, (US), Metrochannels (US) MSG Metro Channels, Book Television (Canada), Arte/ZDF Arte (France and Germany), The Florida Film Festival, The Kansas City Film Jubilee , Facets , the Museum of Modern Art (New York) , the Danish National Film Institute /, Brotfabrik (Berlin) , the 911 Media Arts Center in Seattle, amongst others.\n\nThe feature version also pioneered internet releases when they were still uncommon (in 2001), streaming on a pay per view basis on the Cinemapop media portal.\n\n\"BookWars\" received the Best Documentary Award upon its world premiere at the 2000 New York Underground Film Festival. The movie was also nominated for an IFP Gotham Award.\n\n\"BookWars\" garnered generally positive reviews, starting with its first review by New York Film Critics Circle reviewer Matt Zoller Seitz in the New York Press . The film was met with hostility, however, by the participant of another unaffiliated street bookseller book project, who claimed that the director of \"BookWars\" had manipulated the (mainly black & minority) 6th avenue booksellers in order to film them getting drunk – an allegation which proved not to be true. Nonetheless, a New York Times review by critic Elvis Mitchell soon followed which was not supportive of the film. Numerous other positive reviews followed, however, which cast doubt on some motivations behind the early critiques of \"BookWars\".\n\nUltimately, most of the street booksellers appearing in the movie – as well as those not appearing - welcomed it as an agreeable depiction of their lives, and several street booksellers to this day continue to keep copies of the film on their sidewalk bookstands as a grass-roots, participatory distribution mechanism.\n\n"}
{"id": "47147950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47147950", "title": "Carmen, Baby", "text": "Carmen, Baby\n\nCarmen, Baby is a 1967 American-German-Yugoslav romantic drama film directed by Radley Metzger, based on the novella \"Carmen\" by Prosper Mérimée (which also inspired Bizet popular opera, \"Carmen\").\n\nA liberated woman tempts a local police officer into a romantic entanglement with unpleasant consequences.\n\nThe film \"Carmen, Baby\", according to one reviewer, was the beginning of Metzger's successful style in his later films: that is, adapting \"a literary classic in a gorgeous European locale with high polish and a goodly helping of sophisticated sex and seduction.\" Film critic Jesse Vogel noted that the film is an example of Metzger's signature style, \"cool, classy, distant, with a distinctively European sensibility\". According to film reviewer Gary Morris, \"Carmen\" was \"well played\" by Uta Levka; lighting and camerawork by Hans Jura was \"first-rate\".\nAnother reviewer wrote that the film had \"a rather classy look\" and that the performers were \"attractive\" and the setting \"beautiful\".\n\nIn the case of \"Rabe v. Washington\", 405 U.S. 313 (1972), the Supreme Court of the United States decided that the manager of a drive-in movie theater could not be charged with obscenity for showing the film which was not wholly determined to be obscene, but only parts were, holding that the citizens of Washington State had no notice under the Sixth Amendment that the place where a film was shown was an element of the offense. \n\nWally Lamb mentioned the bottle dance scene from \"Carmen, Baby\" in his 2016 book \"I'll Take You There\".\n\n"}
{"id": "47301598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47301598", "title": "Clarke &amp; Howe", "text": "Clarke &amp; Howe\n\nClarke & Howe was an American architectural firm from Providence, Rhode Island that was active from 1893 to 1928.\n\nThe firm was established in 1893 as Clarke & Spaulding, with Prescott O. Clarke and Arthur R. Spaulding. Wallis E. Howe was added as a partner in 1901, with the firm becoming Clarke, Spaulding & Howe. This association was short-lived, as Spaulding retired from architecture later that year. From 1907 to 1913 the firm was known as Clarke, Howe & Homer, with Eleazer B. Homer, a former MIT professor of architecture. Clarke & Howe was dissolved upon Clarke's retirement in 1928, with Howe continuing the practice as Howe & Church.\n\nPrescott Orloff Clarke was born in Providence in 1858. He attended private schools, and graduated from Brown University, class of 1880. He then worked for Brown & Sharpe, and was later with Clarke, Black & Co., if which his father, George L. Clarke, was the senior partner. George Clarke died in 1890, and Prescott decided to pursue architecture. He moved to Boston, where he attended MIT. Soon after his return in 1893 he partnered with Spaulding. They continued in partnership together until 1901, Spaulding's retirement. Clarke himself retired in 1928, and died in 1935.\n\nThe life of Arthur R. Spaulding is unknown.\n\nWallis Eastburn Howe was born in 1868 in Bristol, as the youngest of 18 children. Howe attended Lehigh University and MIT. He returned to Rhode Island by 1894, and may have established his own office. In 1895 he begn working for Martin & Hall, noted Providence architects. There he attained a high rank, and was permitted to accept his own commissions. He remained with Martin & Hall until 1901, when he was accepted into the partnership of Clarke, Spaulding & Howe. He remained with Clarke until his 1928 retirement. After 1928, he embarked on a series of successful partnerships, beginning with Howe & Church and ending with Howe & Prout. He died in 1960.\n\nEleazer Bartlett Homer was born in Somerville, Massachusetts in 1864. He graduated from MIT in 1885. For a few years he worked for Hartwell & Richardson, and opened his own practice in 1889. From 1887 to 1900 he was a professor at MIT, and was a lecturer there from then until at least 1915. He was also the director of RISD from 1900 to 1907. That year he associated himself with Clarke and Howe as Clarke, Howe & Homer. In 1913 he reestablished his own practice in Providence, maintaining it until his death in 1929.\n\nSoon after their 1893 formation, Clarke & Spaulding began publishing their designs in the American Architect and Building News. These are best represented by a series of four Tudor Revival designs. The first of these was the \"Proposed Inn at Nayatt, RI\", published in January 1894. Apparently not built, what is shown is a sprawling seaside resort complex, positioned somewhere in southern Barrington. In 1896, Prescott Clarke built himself a large house at 203 Blackstone Boulevard in Providence. Already well off from his prior industrial pursuits, the house was one of the largest then built in that part of the city. It was published in 1897. In June 1897, a design for a residence for Dr. Frederick Danne in Bristol was published. This house, built in 1896 near the foot of Smith Street, showcased a hybrid mix of the Tudor Revival as well as the Shingle Style. It no longer stands. In 1897 the architects designed a large double house at 184-186 Upton Avenue in Providence. It was commissioned by Courtney Langdon, a Brown University professor of languages. The two halves are designed to contrast enough to be seen as different residences, but still cooperate as a single building. This design was published in 1898.\n\nAnother important commission was the Fletcher Building (1895), at Union and Westminster in Downtown Providence. It is a large, Classical Revival building, built for the Fletcher heirs. Originally a three story building, in 1902 Clarke & Howe were commissioned to add three additional floors. Later, in 1900, the architects designed a large clubhouse for Francis Kinney in Narragansett. Known as Kinney's Casino, it was based on an East Indian bungalow.\n\nOther designs include:\n\nThe association of the three architects together was extremely short, lasting only for part of a year. When Howe arrived from Martin & Hall, he brought a commission for a mill in Pawtucket. This, the American Textile Mill at 250 Esten Avenue, is noted especially for its Renaissance Revival tower. The other known commission from this period is St. George's School in Middletown. It came to the firm because the school's founder and headmaster, John B. Diman, was Clarke's cousin. For the school, the architects designed a reserved red brick building, which used elements from both the Colonial and Dutch Renaissance revivals. Clarke would design for the school until 1927, and Howe until at least 1957.\n\nBefore 1903, Clarke & Howe were known primarily for their residential designs. This changed that year, when they won the commission for the U. S. Federal Building on Kennedy Plaza in downtown Providence. Construction began on this major Beaux-Arts building in 1904, and it was completed four years later in 1908. The design competition attracted ten entries, from New England and New York, but this design by a local firm was selected unanimously. Clarke & Howe was assisted in the design by Harvey Wiley Corbett, who had been working in their office after returning from Europe.\n\nAlso in 1903, the firm completed two other non-residential designs. The first of these was the Portsmouth Savings Bank in downtown Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Begun in 1902, this was actually an overhaul of a much earlier bank building, and the resulting design was typical of temple-front twentieth century banks. The other was for the Engineering Building at Brown University. Unlike the other two buildings, this is a plainer Colonial Revival building. Today, known as the Lincoln Field Building, it is home to the department of geological science.\n\nThey also designed many residences during this period, most prominent of which are a 1903 house at 102 Prospect Street in Providence, built for Dr. Henry A. Whitmarsh, and another at 140 Blackstone Boulevard for Charles D. Dunlop in 1907-08.\n\nOther designs include:\n\nConcurrent to the addition of Eleazer B. Homer, the architects began receiving commissions for more civic structures. The first of these was the Benjamin Church Home for Aged Men on Hope Street in Bristol. The building was commissioned by the family of Samuel W. Church, a draftsman with the firm who would become a partner upon Clarke's retirement. Built to a residential scale, it is considered a \"very pure example\" of Colonial Revival architecture.\n\nIn 1909, they designed the Veazie Street Grammar School, at Veazie and Douglas Avenue in Providence. Now an elementary school, it was designed by Homer in the Jacobethan style. This was followed the following year by the former South Kingstown High School in Wakefield. This was a more purely Tudor Revival design. Donated by the Hazard family of Peace Dale, it is now named for them. In 1912, the architects were commissioned to design Ranger Hall on the campus of the University of Rhode Island. It is a large but plain academic building, vaguely Jacobethan in design. Completing this group of educational commissions was McVickar Hall at St. Andrew's School in Barrington. This, the administration building for a former industrial school, is based on the Wakefield school, but uses a more rural English vocabulary.\n\nThey also designed several buildings more commercial in nature. In 1911 they built the Blackstone Hotel on Westminster Street in Providence. Like many early twentieth century hotels, it is designed in a red brick Beaux-Arts manner. It is today known as the Hotel Providence. That same year, they built a library and clubhouse for the Rhode Island Medical Society. It has been occupied as commercial space for several years. In 1912, they designed a building for the Peoples Savings Bank on Market Square. This building, now owned by RISD, is a typical Classical, temple-front bank. It was completed in 1913. In 1949, the bank moved to a new building on Kennedy Plaza, designed by Cram & Ferguson.\n\nResidential commissions remained an important part of the firm's work. Two important houses are that for Ella R. M. Phillips (1909, 236 George Street) and Mary B. L. Steedman (1912, 271 Angell Street), both Colonial Revival houses on Providence's east side. Also, in 1911, Eleazer Homer built himself a house at 270 Blackstone Boulevard. That house, like other known Homer designs, is heavily influenced by English architecture. This one, specifically, looks to the Arts and Crafts movement.\n\nOther designs include:\n\nSoon before the breakup of Clarke, Howe & Homer, the Newport Public Library hired the firm to design their new quarters. As Clarke & Howe, they remodeled the noted Edward King House, a large Italianate mansion designed by Richard Upjohn. The library later moved into a purpose-built building, and the King house is now a senior center. Two years later, in 1915, they designed St. Elizabeth's Home on Melrose Street in Providence, another Jacobethan production. Also in 1915 they were hired to design a house for Howe's old fraternity at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. The resulting building, Briarfield House, is a Tudor Revival design, complemented by a wooded site. It was completed in 1922. In 1925, they designed the Guiteras Memorial School in Bristol. The conservative Classical design was based on a Greek Revival house that had recently burned. During the 1920s, Clarke & Howe was commissioned by the Providence Public Library to design a standard design for the city's branch libraries. Only the Wanskuck Branch Library (1926–28) on Veazie Street was built to that original plan. Howe later designed several other branches, but to different designs each time. Also in 1926, they designed for St. Andrew's School a new building called Gardner Hall. The architects also designed the now-demolished Marvel Gymnasium for Brown University in 1927.\n\nDuring this latter period, they designed several churches. In 1916 they built St. Martin's Episcopal Church, all told one of their most important commissions. The prototype for the church was a typical English village church, a common source for a great deal of American churches. In 1925, they would add a parish house to the rear of the church. They designed another Providence church, the Church of the Redeemer, on Hope Street in 1917. In 1920, they completed the spire of St. Luke's in East Greenwich. The church itself was designed in 1878 by A. R. Esty. In 1922-23, they built St. George's on Clinton Street in Central Falls. Their final church commission was in 1928, when they designed a new sanctuary for the Fourth Baptist Church of Providence. The new building was built on Hope Street, placed alongside the old church, which became a parish house. The church is now occupied by the Mt. Hope Community Baptist Church.\n\nAs before, they continued to receive several commissions for commercial buildings, including one of Providence's first skyscrapers. This was the Telephone Building, built in 1917 as the headquarters of the Providence Telephone Company. At eight stories, it was the tallest commercial building outside of the financial district. In 1920, they designed the central branch of Citizens Savings Bank at Hoyle Square. An impressive temple-front bank, it remains a Citizens branch to this day. A third large building was the Providence Gas Company Building, at 100 Weybosset Street, built in 1924. This office building is especially noted for its distinctive ogee gable, first used in Rhode Island on the Joseph Brown House.\n\nClarke & Howe also designed many large residences during this period. The first of these was that for Edward I. Watson (1915), at 140 Nayatt Road in Barrington. This was a large, Colonial Revival summer residence for a Providence businessman. In the 1920s, they designed a great deal of large houses in Providence. These included those for Thomas A. Francis (1922, 156 Hope Street), Frank B. Lisle (1923, 59 Manning Street), Archie W. Merchant (1924, 48 Barberry Hill), and Paul C. DeWolf (1925, 25 Freeman Parkway). These all showed different variants of Colonial Revival design as it developed through the 1920s. Also, in 1926, they designed a stern, brick Jacobethan house for Alfred M. Coats at 175 Upton Avenue.\n\nOther designs include:\n"}
{"id": "765652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765652", "title": "Cloisonné", "text": "Cloisonné\n\nCloisonné () is an ancient technique for decorating metalwork objects. In recent centuries, vitreous enamel has been used, and inlays of cut gemstones, glass and other materials were also used during older periods. The resulting objects can also be called \"cloisonné\". The decoration is formed by first adding compartments (\"cloisons\" in French) to the metal object by soldering or affixing silver or gold wires or thin strips placed on their edges. These remain visible in the finished piece, separating the different compartments of the enamel or inlays, which are often of several colors. Cloisonné enamel objects are worked on with enamel powder made into a paste, which then needs to be fired in a kiln.\n\nIn antiquity, the cloisonné technique was mostly used for jewellery and small fittings for clothes, weapons or similar small objects decorated with geometric or schematic designs, with thick cloison walls. In the Byzantine Empire techniques using thinner wires were developed to allow more pictorial images to be produced, mostly used for religious images and jewellery, and by then always using enamel. By the 14th century this enamel technique had spread to China, where it was soon used for much larger vessels such as bowls and vases; the technique remains common in China to the present day, and cloisonné enamel objects using Chinese-derived styles were produced in the West from the 18th century.\n\nCloisonné first developed in the jewellery of the ancient Near East, typically in very small pieces such as rings, with thin wire forming the cloisons. In the jewellery of ancient Egypt, including the pectoral jewels of the Pharaohs, thicker strips form the cloisons, which remain small. In Egypt gemstones and enamel-like materials sometimes called \"glass-paste\" were both used. The Byzantines perfected a unique form of cloisonné icons. Byzantine enamel spread to surrounding cultures and a particular type, often known as garnet cloisonné is widely found in the Migration Period art of the \"barbarian\" peoples of Europe, who used gemstones, especially red garnets, as well as glass and enamel, with small thick-walled cloisons. Red garnets and gold made an attractive contrast of colours, and for Christians the garnet was a symbol of Christ. This type is now thought to have originated in the Late Antique Eastern Roman Empire and to have initially reached the Migration peoples as diplomatic gifts of objects probably made in Constantinople, then copied by their own goldsmiths. Glass-paste cloisonné was made in the same periods with similar results – compare the gold Anglo-Saxon fitting with garnets (right) and the Visigothic brooch with glass-paste in the gallery. Thick ribbons of gold were soldered to the base of the sunken area to be decorated to make the compartments, before adding the stones or paste. Sometimes compartments filled with the different materials of cut stones or glass and enamel are mixed to ornament the same object, as in the Sutton Hoo purse-lid. In the Byzantine world the technique was developed into the thin-wire style suitable only for enamel described below, which was imitated in Europe from about Carolingian period onwards.\n\nThe earliest surviving cloisonné pieces are rings in graves from 12th century BC Cyprus, using very thin wire. Subsequently, enamel was just one of the fillings used for the small, thick-walled cloisons of the Late Antique and Migration Period style described above. From about the 8th century, Byzantine art began again to use much thinner wire more freely to allow much more complex designs to be used, with larger and less geometric compartments, which was only possible using enamel. These were still on relatively small objects, although numbers of plaques could be set into larger objects, such as the Pala d'Oro, the altarpiece in Saint Mark's Cathedral, Venice. Some objects combined thick and thin cloisons for varied effect. The designs often (as at right) contained a generous background of plain gold, as in contemporary Byzantine mosaics. The area to be enamelled was stamped to create the main depression, pricked to help the enamel adhere, and the cloisons added.\n\nTwo different techniques in Byzantine and European cloisonné enamel are distinguished, for which the German names are still typically used in English. The earliest is the Vollschmelz (\"full\" enamel, literally \"full melt\") technique where the whole of a gold base plate is to be covered in enamel. The edges of the plate are turned up to form a reservoir, and gold wires are soldered in place to form the \"cloisons\". The enamel design therefore covers the whole plate. In the Senkschmelz (\"sunk\" enamel, literally \"sunk melt\") technique the parts of the base plate to hold the design are hammered down, leaving a surrounding gold background, as also seen in contemporary Byzantine icons and mosaics with gold glass backgrounds, and the saint illustrated here. The wires and enamels are then added as before. The outline of the design will be apparent on the reverse of the base plate. The transition between the two techniques occurs around 900 in Byzantine enamel, and 1000 in the West, though with important earlier examples. The plaques with apostles of around the latter date on the Holy Crown of Hungary show a unique transitional phase, where the base plaque has hammered recesses for the design, as in \"senkschmelz\" work, but the enamel covers the whole plaque except for thick outlines around the figures and inscriptions, as in the \"vollschmelz\" technique (see the gallery below for examples of this technique and \"vollschmelz\" work). Some 10th-century pieces achieve a \"senkschmelz\" effect by using two plates superimposed on each other, the upper one with the design outline cut out and the lower one left plain. \nFrom Byzantium or the Islamic world the technique reached China in the 13–14th centuries; the first written reference is in a book of 1388, where it is called \"Dashi ware\". No Chinese pieces clearly from the 14th century are known, the earliest datable pieces being from the reign of the Xuande Emperor (1425–35), which however show a full use of Chinese styles suggesting considerable experience in the technique. It was initially regarded with suspicion by Chinese connoisseurs, firstly as being foreign, and secondly as appealing to feminine taste. However, by the beginning of the 18th century the Kangxi Emperor had a cloisonné workshop among the many Imperial factories. The most elaborate and highly valued Chinese pieces are from the early Ming Dynasty, especially the reigns of the Xuande Emperor and Jingtai Emperor (1450–57), although 19th century or modern pieces are far more common. The Chinese industry seems to have benefited from a number of skilled Byzantine refugees fleeing the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, although based on the name alone, it is far more likely China obtained knowledge of the technique from the middle east. In much Chinese cloisonné blue is usually the predominant colour, and the Chinese name for the technique, \"jingtailan\" (\"Jingtai blue ware\"), refers to this, and the Jingtai Emperor. Quality began to decline in the 19th century. Initially heavy bronze or brass bodies were used, and the wires soldered, but later much lighter copper vessels were used, and the wire glued on before firing. The enamels compositions and the pigments change with time.\n\nIn Byzantine pieces, and even more in Chinese work, the wire by no means always encloses a separate color of enamel. Sometime a wire is used just for decorative effect, stopping in the middle of a field of enamel, and sometimes the boundary between two enamel colors is not marked by a wire. In the Byzantine plaque at right the first feature may be seen in the top wire on the saint's black sleeve, and the second in the white of his eyes and collar. Both are also seen in the Chinese bowl illustrated at top right.\n\nChinese cloisonné is amongst the best known enamel cloisonné in the world.\n\nThe Japanese also produced large quantities from the mid-19th century, of very high technical quality. In Japan cloisonné enamels are known as \"shippō-yaki\" (七宝焼). Early centres of cloisonné were Nagoya during the Owari Domain. Companies of renown were the Ando Cloisonné Company. Later centres of renown were Edo and Kyoto. In Kyoto Namikawa became one of the leading companies of Japanese cloisonné. The Namikawa Yasuyuki Cloisonné Museum is specifically dedicated to it.\n\nRussian cloisonné from the Tsarist era is also highly prized by collectors, especially from the House of Fabergé or Khlebnikov, and the French and other nations have produced small quantities. Chinese cloisonné is sometimes confused with Canton enamel, a similar type of enamel work that is painted on freehand and does not use partitions to hold the colors separate.\n\nIn medieval Western Europe cloisonné enamel technique was gradually overtaken by the rise of champlevé enamel, where the spaces for the enamel to fill are created by making recesses (using various methods) into the base object, rather than building up compartments from it, as in cloisonné. Later techniques were evolved that allowed the enamel to be painted onto a flat background without running. Plique-à-jour is a related enameling technique which uses clear enamels and no metal backplate, producing an object that has the appearance of a miniature stained glass object - in effect cloisonné with no backing. Plique-a'-jour is usually created on a base of mica or thin copper which is subsequently peeled off (mica) or etched away with acid (copper).\n\nOther ways of using the technique have been developed, but are of minor importance. In 19th century Japan it was used on pottery vessels with ceramic glazes, and it has been used with lacquer and modern acrylic fillings for the cloisons. A version of cloisonné technique is often used for lapel badges, logo badges for many objects such as cars, including BMW models, and other applications, though in these the metal base is normally cast with the compartments in place, so the use of the term cloisonne', though common, is questionable. That technique is correctly referred by goldsmiths, metalsmiths and enamellists as champlevé.\n\nA large collection of 150 Chinese cloisonné pieces is at the G.W. Vincent Smith Art Museum in Springfield, Massachusetts.\n\nFirst the object to be decorated is made or obtained; this will normally be made by different craftspeople. The metal usually used for making the body is copper, since it is cheap, light and easily hammered and stretched, but gold, silver or other metals may be used. Cloisonné wire is made from fine silver or fine gold and is usually about .010 x .040 inches in cross section. It is bent into shapes that define the colored areas. The bends are all done at right angles, so that the wire does not curve up. This is done with small pliers, tweezers, and custom-made jigs. The cloisonné wire pattern may consist of several intricately constructed wire patterns that fit together into a larger design. Solder can be used to join the wires, but this causes the enamel to discolour and form bubbles later on. Most existing Byzantine enamels have soldered cloisons, however the use of solder to adhere the cloison wires has fallen out of favor due to its difficulty, with the exception of some \"purist contemporary enamellists\" who create fine watch faces and high quality very expensive jewelry. Instead of soldering the cloisons to the base metal, the base metal is fired with a thin layer of clear enamel. The cloisonné wire is glued to the enamel surface with gum tragacanth. When the gum has dried, the piece is fired again to fuse the cloisonné wire to the clear enamel. The gum burns off, leaving no residue.\n\nVitreous enamels in the different colors are ground to fine powders in an agate or porcelain mortar and pestle, then washed to remove the impurities that would discolor the fired enamel. The enamel is made from silica, niter, and lead oxide to which metallic oxides are added for coloring. These ingredients are melted together, forming a glassy frit which is ground again before application. Each color of enamel is prepared this way before it is used and then mixed with a very dilute solution of gum tragacanth. Using fine spatulas, brushes or droppers, the enameler places the fine colored powder into each cloison. The piece is left to dry completely before firing, which is done by putting the article, with its enamel fillings, in a kiln. The enamel in the cloisons will sink down a lot after firing, due to melting and shrinkage of the granular nature of the glass powder, much as sugar melting in an oven. This process is repeated until all cloisons are filled to the top of the wire edge.\n\nThree styles of cloisonné are most often seen: concave, convex, and flat. The finishing method determines this final appearance. With concave cloisonné the cloisons are not completely filled. Capillary action causes the enamel surface to curve up against the cloisonné wire when the enamel is molten, producing a concave appearance. Convex cloissoné is produced by overfilling each cloison, at the last firing. This gives each color area the appearance of slightly rounded mounds. Flat cloisonné is the most common. After all the cloisons are filled the enamel is ground down to a smooth surface with lapidary equipment, using the same techniques as are used for polishing cabochon stones. The top of the cloisonné wire is polished so it is flush with the enamel and has a bright lustre. Some cloisonné wire is electroplated with a thin film of gold, which will not tarnish as silver does.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2015787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015787", "title": "Crossroads, Kansas City", "text": "Crossroads, Kansas City\n\nThe Crossroads (officially the Crossroads Arts District) is a historic neighborhood near Downtown Kansas City, Missouri. It is centered at approximately 19th Street and Baltimore Avenue, directly south of the Downtown Loop and north of Crown Center. It is the city's main art gallery district and center for the visual arts. Dozens of galleries are located in its renovated warehouses and industrial buildings. It is also home to numerous restaurants, housewares shops, architects, designers, an advertising agency, and other visual artists. The district also has several live music venues.\n\nNumerous buildings in the neighborhood are listed on the National Register of Historic Places, including the TWA Corporate Headquarters Building, Western Auto Building, and Firestone Building. There are two historic groups of buildings also on the Register—Working Class Hotels at 19th & Main Streets (Midwest Hotel, Monroe Hotel, and Rieger Hotel) and Crossroads Historic Freight District (industrial buildings clustered along the tracks north of Union Station).\n\nThe Crossroads district is also home to one of the county's largest remaining examples of a Film Row district. The Film Row district consists of 17 buildings. Following the demolition of a Film Row building, the Film Row district was placed on Missouri Preservation's 2013 list of \"watched properties.\"\n\n\"The Kansas City Star\" and \"The Pitch\" maintain offices in the neighborhood, along with HOK and Barkley. The Belger Arts Center is also located in the district.\n\nArt galleries generally open new shows on the first Friday of each month from 6 to 9 pm. This has become one of the region's most popular regular events as thousands of people flock to the Crossroads for gallery \"open houses\" amidst the Crossroads's unique atmosphere.\n\nThere are more than 60 galleries in the Crossroads district, making it one of the five largest arts districts in the US.\n\nFirst held in late August 2005, the Crossroads Music Festival is an annual event organized by Spice of Life Productions, which features local music artists. The 2005 event was held at Grinder's Sculpture Park (CrossroadsKC) at 18th Street and Locust Street. In addition to concert performances, offerings include short films by local independent filmmakers and booths offering apparel by local designers, local independent print media, and carnival games.\n\nIn 2007, one of Kansas City's development agencies began a program to allow property tax abatements for art-related business who would otherwise be priced out of the neighborhood by fast-rising property values. Neighborhood leaders lobbied for the program to prevent the \"Soho Effect\" of gentrification. Tax abatements had been granted to developers to attract new residents to the neighborhood with high-end condominiums and lofts next to the galleries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "910240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=910240", "title": "Cup and ring mark", "text": "Cup and ring mark\n\nCup and ring marks or cup marks are a form of prehistoric art found mainly in the Atlantic seaboard of Europe (Ireland, Wales, Northern England, Scotland, France (Brittany), Portugal, and Spain (Galicia) – and in Mediterranean Europe – Italy (in Alpine valleys and Sardinia) and Greece (Thessalia), as well as in Scandinavia (Denmark, Sweden, and Finland) and in Switzerland (at Caschenna in Grisons).\n\nSimilar forms are also found throughout the world including Australia, Gabon, Greece, Hawaii, India (Daraki-Chattan), Israel, Mexico and Mozambique. The oldest known forms are found from the Fertile Crescent to India.\n\nThey consist of a concave depression, no more than a few centimetres across, pecked into a rock surface and often surrounded by concentric circles also etched into the stone. Sometimes a linear channel called a gutter leads out from the middle. \nThe decoration occurs as a petroglyph on natural boulders and outcrops and also as an element of megalithic art on purposely worked megaliths such as the slab cists of the Food Vessel culture, some stone circles and passage graves such as the clava tombs and on the capstones at Newgrange.\n\nThe site of Atlit Yam, abandoned circa 6300 BCE and now under Israel's Mediterranean Sea coast south of Haifa, features cup marks engraved into megalithic stones, some of which are set upright to form a semi-circle which has been referred to as resembling the UK's stonehenge but smaller, with ceremonially buried bodies at the site, and potential alignments to the solstice, and/or to other stars, still being hypothesized as the site was only discovered in 2009 and undersea sites are difficult and expensive to explore. Further inland, dating to \"at least\" 3000 BCE (exposed) and estimated \"up to\" 4000 BCE (unexcavated layer, under the layer which is exposed), is Rujm el-Hiri, a cairn (tumulus) type of megalith, consisting of concentric circles (as cup marks also are \"concentric\" circles, but much smaller than Rogem Hiri) estimated to contain 40,000,000 kg of stones moved by humans, with an opening in the outer circle which aligns to the summer solstice (just as sites throughout Eurasia also align to solstices) and which has a burial chamber in the center, with thousands of dolmens nearby, a \"dolmen\" being a 3rd and younger type of megalith found elsewhere in Eurasia, the oldest of which, thus far, are found in the UK, but date only to the 3rd millennium BCE in Israel.\n\nThe cup marks are still present in other proto-Canaanite sites as recently as the Chalcolithic Age, for example at several sites in and around modern-day Modiin dated to the fourth millennium BCE and the third millennium BCE, and in the City of David, Old Jerusalem. Tel Gezer has more up-ended megaliths dating to only 1550 BCE which are aligned to Earth's north and south physical poles, but Tel Gezer's cupmarks have only recently been surveyed (2012) and do not appear to have been dated (as to whether they were made before, concurrent to or after the 1550 BCE megaliths) yet; however, excavations at Gezer are ongoing as of 2014.\n\n\nNumerous cup-marked stones have been found in quite all the alpine valleys, comprising Val Camonica (Italy), associated with rock drawings. Regarding western alps (Piedmont), the best known are distributed along the Chisone, Susa and Viù valleys; also the La Bessa site is to be cited.\nStrictly referring to cup-and-rings, it is possible to cite in the western Alps only the Novalesa stone, in the Cenischia Valley, near the Italian-French border. Found in 1988, it shows 4 concentric circles, with a central cup-mark; all around a network of 20 cup-marks and channels.\n\nSardinia is rich in cup-and-rings stones: the best known is the so-called \"Perda Pintà\" (the \"painted stone\", in fact it's carved and not painted) or Stele di Boeli, at Mamoiada: an impressive stela or menhir 2,67 m high with various concentric circles patterns crossed by engraved channels and central cup-marks.\n\nSimilar patterns are known in Galicia, which has given them the name of 'Galician style'. These types, the cup-and-ring, cup-and-ring with gutter and the gapped concentric circles motifs are shared between this part of Iberia and the British Isles, manifesting, together with other cultural expressions like megaliths or Bronze Age culture, a cultural link along the coasts of Atlantic Europe.\n\nPrecisely dating megalithic art is difficult: even if the megalithic monument can be dated, the art may be a later addition. The Hunterheugh Crags cup and ring marks near Alnwick in Northumberland have recently been demonstrated to date back into the Early Neolithic era through their stratigraphic relationship with other, datable features. Some cup marks have been found in Iron Age contexts but these may represent re-used stones.\n\nWhere they are etched onto natural, flat stone it has been observed that they seem to incorporate the natural surface of the rock. Those at Hunterheugh are mostly connected to one another by gutters that can channel rainwater from one to the next, down the sloping top of the stone.\nIt has been suggested by archaeologist Clive Waddington that the initial Early Neolithic impetus to create the marks was forgotten and that the practice fell into abeyance until a second phase of creation continued the basic tradition but with less precision and more variability in design. The markers of this second phase moved the art from natural stones to megaliths as its symbolism was reinterpreted by Later Neolithic and Early Bronze Age people.\n\nTheir purpose is unknown although some may be connected with natural stone outcrops exploited by Neolithic peoples to make polished stone axes. A religious purpose has been suggested.\nAlexander Thom suggested in a BBC television documentary, \"Cracking the Stone Age Code\", in 1970, \"I have an idea, entirely nebulous at the moment, that the cup and ring markings were a method of recording, of writing, and that they may indicate, once we can read them, what a particular stone was for. We have seen the cup and ring markings on the stone at Temple Wood, and that's on the main stone but we can't interpret them ...yet.\" He created diagrams and carried out analysis of over 50 of the cup and ring markings from which he determined a length he termed the Megalithic Inch (MI).\n\nThis whole idea has been ignored almost completely apart from a critical analysis carried out by Alan Davis in the 1980s, who tested Thom's hypothesis on cup and ring sites in England by examining the separations of neighbouring cupmark centres. He found some weak evidence for the \"Megalithic Inch\" but it was not statistically significant, and he suggested \"strongest indications...towards the use of a quantum close in value to 5 MI at certain sites\" and that \"the apparent quantum seems strongly associated with ringed cups.\" Davis made an initial effort to build on Thom's start, and to answer the question he posed: \"Why should a man spend hours – or rather days – cutting cups in a random fashion on a rock? It would indeed be a breakthrough if someone could crack the code of the cups.\"\n\nSubsequently, Davis investigated the idea that the prehistoric carvers used an elementary method of diameter-construction in laying out the carvings. This investigation (incorporating both Scottish and English sites) suggested a possible explanation for many of the characteristic shapes of carved rings, and also produced evidence in the ring diameters for the use of a unit of measurement close to Thom's MI (and 5 MI) that was of high statistical significance. The evidence is consistent with the use of rough measures such as hand- and finger-widths (rather than the formal, accurate system proposed by Thom), but the important conclusion is that a similar design ritual, apparently involving a consistent measurement system of some kind, was in use over a wide geographical area.\n\nSites with cup and ring marks include:\n\n\nWork at Drumirril in County Monaghan has uncovered Neolithic and early Bronze Age occupation evidence around the rock carvings there and this dating is generally accepted for most of the art. Another particularly rich source of cup-marked boulders is the Derrynablaha townland on the Iveragh peninsula in County Kerry.\n\nAn open air Rock Art site in the Swiss Alps is situated at , Rethic Alps (in Grisons, Switzerland), where Latin derived languages mingle with German. The first engraved rocks were discovered in 1965, during the building of an iron electricity framework. Carschenna engravings are mainly characterized by cup-marks with from 1 to 9 concentric circles. Spirals, sun-like figures, riding scenes, and schematic horses are also present.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13926049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13926049", "title": "Dallas ArtsPartners", "text": "Dallas ArtsPartners\n\nDallas ArtsPartners (AP) is a program run by the 501(c)3 nonprofit organization Big Thought and is a community collaboration between the Dallas Independent School District (DISD), the City of Dallas Office of Cultural Affairs, and more than 60 professional arts and cultural organizations.\n\nBig Thought’s responsibilities to the program include program design and implementation, private sector fund raising, governance, and fiscal management. Dallas ArtsPartners, recognized as an exemplary program by the Texas School Performance Review, was established in 1998. The initiative was born soon after the Dallas Cultural Affairs Commission Long Range Planning Committee commissioned a study to determine the availability and accessibility of educational outreach programming offered by the city’s arts and cultural institutions. \nThe data collected indicated that while some public schools received multiple performances, residencies, and field trips, many received none. In response to these findings, and recognizing the potential educational benefits of these programs, the City of Dallas teamed with the Dallas Independent School District to create Dallas ArtsPartners.\n\nThe Dallas ArtsPartners was designed to:\n\nDallas ArtsPartners coordinates both school day programs that integrate programming across the curriculum, and after school (21st Century Community Learning Centers) and summer (Summer in the City) programs that provide curriculum support. All AP programs directly support the state curriculum standards, Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS) and offer links to every core curriculum subject. Fine Arts TEKS were informed by the National Standards for the Arts.\n\nThe estimated 15,000 programs provided by AP’s cultural partners incorporates dozens of arts and cultural disciplines each year and include:\n\nAP promotes educators’ success in integrating arts and cultural resources into curricula by providing a tiered Professional Development System that employs multiple trainings and educational materials. Every DISD elementary teacher receives AP’s services. \nAP’s three-year plus longitudinal study examines the effects of AP on students, teachers, and cultural organizations. The study is longitudinal, rigorous, intensive, collaborative and literacy-focused.\n\nDallas ArtsPartners serves every public elementary school in the city of Dallas; a total of 156 schools, 101,000 children and 6,000 elementary educators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41531114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41531114", "title": "Earthquake in Chile (film)", "text": "Earthquake in Chile (film)\n\nEarthquake in Chile () is a 1975 West German television drama film directed by Helma Sanders-Brahms. The film is an adaptation of the Heinrich von Kleist novella \"The Earthquake in Chile\".\n\nHandsome Jeronimo Rugera is hired to tutor the rich heiress, Josephe Asteron. They fall in love, yet the church forbids their relationship, and Josephe is hidden in a convent. When the church discovers she is pregnant, Josephe is sentenced to death by decapitation. Jeronimo tracks her down, yet is jailed before he can rescue her. When fate intervenes in the form of a massive earthquake, the two lovers have no idea what is in store for them. Sanders-Brahms uses a voice-over of the first and final sentences of the book, placing them in the beginning and end of the film.\n\nAccording to critic Elaine Martin, author of the scholarly article \"Rewrites and Remakes: Screen Adaptations of Romantic Works,\" the film director \"erases the uncanny aspect of Kleist's tale and replaces it with a socio-political explanation\" and intended to politicize the earthquake narrative's context in a higher degree compared to the original work. For the adaptation Sanders-Brahms uses parallel plotlines that intersect in the end instead of the flashbacks used in the original work. Sanders-Brahms created story segments referred to by Martin as \"pre-stories, as it were.\" Martin states that the new segments \"locate\" the characters \"socially and temperamentally.\" In addition Sanders-Brahms removed the nineteenth century Prussia context, what Martin calls \"the stage that represents Kleist's narrative filter.\" The author added that the ending of the film is \"less sanguine\" compared to the novella because the director added a \"veiled reference\" to the \"economic value\" of the surviving child. The child is scheduled to inherit the wealth of the parents, who are dead. She further wrote that in the film Don Fernando is \"a cooly calculating businessman, shaped by a bourgeois business mentality\" instead of a \"divine hero.\"\n\n\nThe film was released on DVD by Facets Multi-Media in 2009.\n\nFilm critic Greg Titian wrote a generally negative review of the film in which he stated that \"\"Earthquake in Chile\" throws the audience into the story with scant setup. Narration at the opening sets the scene in a way that was dissatisfying to this reviewer [...] I felt that \"Earthquake in Chile\" made emotional demands on the audience without properly establishing an emotional attachment in the audience to those characters [...] Perhaps I missed the point, or the historical significance of this particular piece of German cinema, but the predictable storyline, in my estimation, ultimately falls a bit flat,\" though he nevertheless praised the fact that the \"DVD sports a very high quality transfer.\" \"Der Spiegel\"'s critic Siegfried Schober's review made similar negative remarks.\n\nThe director made the 1976 film \"Heinrich\" because, during work on \"Earthquake in Chile\", she developed an interest in the work's original author.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38702850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38702850", "title": "Gaspard de la Nuit (poetry collection)", "text": "Gaspard de la Nuit (poetry collection)\n\nGaspard de la Nuit — Fantaisies à la manière de Rembrandt et de Callot () is a compilation of prose poems by Italian-born French poet Aloysius Bertrand. Considered one of the first examples of modern prose poetry, it was published in 1842, one year after Bertrand's death from tuberculosis, from a manuscript dated 1836, by his friend David d'Angers. The text includes a short address to Victor Hugo and another to Charles Nodier, and a Memoir of Bertrand written by Sainte-Beuve was included in the original 1842 edition.\n\nThe poems themselves are expressed with a strong romanticist verve, and explore fantasies of medieval Europe.\n\nThe author tells an introductory story of how he sat in a garden in Dijon, and fell into conversation with a dishevelled old man who sat near him leafing through a book. The stranger recognizes him to be a poet, and speaks of how he has spent his life searching for the meaning of Art ('L'art est la science du poète'), and for the elements or principles of Art. The first principle, what was \"sentiment\" in Art, was revealed to him by the discovery of some little book inscribed Gott - Liebe ('Dieu et Amour', God and Love): to have loved and to have prayed.\n\nThen he became preoccupied by what constituted \"idea\" in Art, and, having studied nature and the works of man through thirty years, at the cost of his youth, he wondered if the second principle, that of idea, might be Satan. But after a night of storm and colic in the church of Notre-Dame of Dijon, in which clarity shone through the shadows ('Une clarté piqua les ténèbres'), he concluded that the devil did not exist, that Art existed in the bosom of God, and that we are merely the copyists of the Creator.\n\nThen the old stranger thrusts into the poet's hand the book, his own manuscript, telling all the attempts of his lips to find the instrument which gives the pure and expressive note - every trial upon the canvas before the subtle dawn-glow of the 'clair-obscur' or clarity in shadow appeared there - the novel experiments of harmony and colour, the only products of his nocturnal deliberations. The old man goes off to write his Will, saying he will come back to collect his book tomorrow. The manuscript is, naturally, \"Gaspard de la Nuit. Fantaisies à la manière de Rembrandt et de Callot\". The next day the poet returns to restore the book to its owner, who does not come: he asks after M. Gaspard de la Nuit, to which the answer is that he is probably in Hell unless he is out on his travels - for he is, of course, the devil. 'May he roast there!' says the poet. 'I shall publish his book.'\n\nA short preface attributed to Gaspard himself explains that the artists Paul Rembrandt and Jacques Callot represent two eternally reverse or antithetic faces of Art: one the philosopher absorbed in meditation and prayer upon the spirits of beauty, science, wisdom and love, seeking to penetrate the symbols of nature, and the other the showy figure who parades about the street, rows in the taverns, caresses bohemian girls, always swears by his rapier, and whose main preoccupation is waxing his moustache. But in considering Art under this double personification he has included studies upon other artists among his poetic meditations, which he has not presented as a formal literary theory because M. Séraphin has not explained to him the mechanism of his Chinese shadow-plays, and Punchinello conceals from curious viewers the thread which makes his arm move.\n\nThe \"Fantaisies\" of Gaspard de la Nuit, each of a few short paragraphs or extended strophes (and every one of them prefaced by a short literary quotation), are then arranged in six short books entitled 'Ecole Flamande' (Flemish School) (9 pieces), 'Le Vieux Paris' (Old Paris) (10), 'La Nuit et ses Prestiges' (The Night and its Marvels) (11), 'Les Chroniques' (The Chronicles) (8), 'Espagne et Italie' (Spain and Italy) (8), and 'Silves' (6). There is also a group of 13 separate pieces not in the finished collection but found among the author's manuscripts, which include 'Le Gibet', the received version of 'Scarbo', and a piece addressed to the sculptor M. David.\n\nThe book had an important influence upon other poets, mostly French, including Charles Baudelaire, through whom the importance of the work came to be recognized. The most famous tribute was the Suite, \"Gaspard de la Nuit: Trois poèmes pour piano d'après Aloysius Bertrand\", of three piano pieces by Maurice Ravel based on three items, namely 'Ondine', 'Scarbo' and 'Le Gibet'. This was first performed in 1909. 'Le Gibet' was one of the supplementary pieces not included in the original 1836 manuscript, and the version of 'Scarbo' alluded to by Ravel was in the same category. The original 'Scarbo' (a different text), and 'Ondine', are numbers (ii) and (ix) respectively of the third book of Fantaisies, \"La Nuit et ses Prestiges\". When Ravel wrote his music, the 1925 edition based on the manuscript had not yet been published.\n\nThe book has been largely unknown outside France, particularly in English-speaking countries, owing mostly to the lack of translations. Translated excerpts from the book appeared early on in various publications. Paul Zweig's 1964 compilation entitled \"A Selection from Gaspard of the Night\" is one example. However, there was no complete English translation of \"Gaspard\" until that in 1977 by John T. Wright, a professor of French and English at the University of South Carolina, based on the 1925 Bertrand Guégan edition of the 1836 manuscript. A translation and adaptation by the poet Donald Sidney-Fryer published in 2004 includes notes and introductory studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "22369867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22369867", "title": "Giants, Monsters &amp; Dragons", "text": "Giants, Monsters &amp; Dragons\n\nGiants, Monsters & Dragons: An Encyclopedia of Folklore, Legend and Myth is an encyclopedia of monsters, folklore, myths, and legends compiled by Carol Rose. The book features small entries about monsters, folklore, myths and legends from around the world, and includes many illustrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "12327583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12327583", "title": "Girls Like Us", "text": "Girls Like Us\n\nGirls Like Us is a 1997 documentary film directed byTina Di Feliciantonio and Jane C. Wagner. It follows the lives of four teenage girls of Philadelphia for four years.\n\n"}
{"id": "157393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157393", "title": "Guy Debord", "text": "Guy Debord\n\nGuy Louis Debord (; ; 28 December 1931 – 30 November 1994) was a French Marxist theorist, philosopher, filmmaker, member of the Letterist International, founder of a Letterist faction, and founding member of the Situationist International (SI). He was also briefly a member of \"Socialisme ou Barbarie\".\n\nGuy Debord (also known as \"Debord Guy\") was born in Paris in 1931. Debord's father, Martial, was a pharmacist who died due to illness when Debord was young. Debord's mother, Paulette Rossi, sent Guy to live with his grandmother in her family villa in Italy. During World War II, the Rossis left the villa and began to travel from town to town. As a result, Debord attended high school in Cannes, where he began his interest in film and vandalism. As a young man, Debord actively opposed the French war in Algeria and joined in demonstrations in Paris against it. Debord studied Law at the University of Paris, but left early and did not complete his university education. After ending his stint at the University of Paris, he began his career as a writer.\n\nDebord joined the Letterist International when he was 19. The Letterists were led dictatorially by Isidore Isou until a widely agreed upon schism ended Isou's authority. This schism gave rise to several factions of Letterists, one of which was decidedly led by Debord upon Gil Wolman's unequivocal recommendation. In the 1960s, Debord led the Situationist International group, which influenced the Paris Uprising of 1968, during which he took part in the occupation of the Sorbonne. Some consider his book \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967) to be a catalyst for the uprising, although perhaps a more immediately significant text was Mustapha Khayati's \"On the Poverty of Student Life\", published in November 1966.\n\nIn 1957, the Letterist International, the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus, and the London Psychogeographical Association gathered in Cosio d'Arroscia (Cuneo), Italy, to found the Situationist International, with Debord having been the leading representative of the Letterist delegation. Initially made up of a number of well-known artists such as Asger Jorn and Pinot Gallizio, the early days of the SI were heavily focused on the formulation of a critique of art, which would serve as a foundation for the group's future entrance into further political critiques. The SI was known for a number of its interventions in the art world, which included one raid against an international art conference in Belgium during 1958 that included a large pamphlet drop and significant media coverage, all of which culminated in the arrest of various situationists and sympathizers associated with the scandal. In addition to this action, the SI endeavored to formulate industrial painting, or, painting prepared en masse with the intent of defaming the original value largely associated with the art of the period. In the course of these actions, Debord was heavily involved in the planning and logistical work associated with preparing these interventions, as well as the work for \"Internationale Situationniste\" associated with theoretical defense of the Situationist International's actions.\n\nIn the early 1960s Debord began to direct the SI toward an end of its artistic phase, eventually expelling members such as Jorn, Gallizio, Troche, and Constant—the bulk of the \"artistic\" wing of the SI—by 1965. Having established the situationist critique of art as a social and political critique, one not to be carried out in traditional artistic activities, the SI began, due in part to Debord's contributions, to pursue a more concise theoretical critique of capitalist society along Marxist lines.\n\nWith Debord's 1967 work, \"The Society of the Spectacle\", and excerpts from the group's journal, \"Internationale Situationniste\", the Situationists began to formulate their theory of the spectacle, which explained the nature of late capitalism's historical decay. In Debord's terms, situationists defined the spectacle as an assemblage of social relations transmitted via the imagery of class power, and as a period of capitalist development wherein \"all that was once lived has moved into representation\". With this theory, Debord and the SI would go on to play an influential role in the revolts of May 1968 in France, with many of the protesters drawing their slogans from Situationist tracts penned or influenced by Debord.\n\nIn 1972, Debord disbanded the Situationist International after its original members, including Asger Jorn and Raoul Vaneigem, quit or were expelled. (Vaneigem wrote a biting criticism of Debord and the International.) Debord then focused on filmmaking with financial backing from the movie mogul and publisher, Gérard Lebovici (éditions Champ Libre), until Lebovici's mysterious death. Debord was suspected of Lebovici's murder. Distraught by the accusations and his friend's death, Debord took his films and writings out of production until after his death. He had agreed to have his films released posthumously at the request of the American researcher, Thomas Y. Levin. Debord's two most recognized films are \"Society of the Spectacle\" (1973) and \"\" (1978).\n\nAfter dissolving the Situationist International, Debord spent his time reading, and occasionally writing, in relative isolation in a cottage at Champot with Alice Becker-Ho, his second wife. He continued to correspond on political and other issues, notably with Lebovici and the Italian situationist Gianfranco Sanguinetti. He focused on reading material relating to war strategies, e.g. Clausewitz and Sun Tzu, and he designed a war game with Alice Becker-Ho.\n\nDebord married twice, first to Michèle Bernstein and then Alice Becker-Ho. Debord had affairs with other women, including Michèle Mochot-Bréhat. Bernstein wrote a vaguely fictional but detailed account of the open relationships Mochot and she had with Debord in her novel \"All The King's Horses\".\n\nJust before Debord's death, he filmed (although did not publish) a documentary, \"Son art et son temps\" (\"His Art and His Times\"), an autobiography of sorts that focused primarily on social issues in Paris in the 1990s. It has been suggested that his dark depiction of this period was a suicide note of sorts. Both Debord's depression and alcohol consumption had become problematic, resulting in a form of polyneuritis. Perhaps in order to end the suffering caused by these conditions, Debord committed suicide by shooting himself in the head (or possibly heart) on 30 November 1994. This was not the first time he attempted to end his life.\n\nDebord's suicide is as controversial as it is unclear. Some assert it was a revolutionary act related to his career. Due to his involvement with the radical Situationist International (SI), as well as his sadness at 'the society as a spectacle' being considered a cliché in later life, many think that Debord felt hopeless about the very society he was trying to shed light on. Debord was said to be \"victim of the Spectacle he fought\". Among the many commentaries on Debord's demise, one scholar noted: \"Guy Debord did not kill himself. He was murdered by the thoughtlessness and selfishness of so-called scholars (primarily trendy lit-criters) who colonized his brilliant ideas and transformed his radical politics into an academic status symbol not worth the pulp it's printed on…\"\n\nOn 29 January 2009, fifteen years after his death, Christine Albanel, Minister of Culture, classified the archive of his works as a \"national treasure\" in response to a sale request by Yale University. The Ministry declared that \"he has been one of the most important contemporary thinkers, with a capital place in history of ideas from the second half of the twentieth century.\" Similarly, Debord once called his book, \"The Society of the Spectacle\", \"the most important book of the twentieth century\". He continues to be a canonical and controversial figure particularly among European scholars of radical politics and modern art.\n\nGuy Debord's best known works are his theoretical books, \"The Society of the Spectacle\" and \"Comments on the Society of the Spectacle\". In addition to these he wrote a number of autobiographical books including \"Mémoires\", \"Panégyrique\", \"Cette Mauvaise Réputation...\", and \"Considérations sur l'assassinat de Gérard Lebovici\". He was also the author of numerous short pieces, sometimes anonymous, for the journals \"Potlatch\", \"Les Lèvres Nues\", \"Les Chats Sont Verts\", and \"Internationale Situationniste\". The \"Society of the spectacle\" was written in an \"interesting prose\", unlike most writings in that time or of that nature. For Debord, the Spectacle is viewed as false representations in our real lives. The Spectacle is a materialized worldview. The spectacle 'subjects human beings to itself'.\n\nDebord was deeply distressed by the hegemony of governments and media over everyday life through mass production and consumption. He criticized both the capitalism of the West and the dictatorial communism of the Eastern bloc for the lack of autonomy allowed to individuals by both types of governmental structure. Debord postulated that Alienation had gained a new relevance through the invasive forces of the 'spectacle' - \"a social relation between people that is mediated by images\" consisting of mass media, advertisement, and popular culture. The spectacle is a self-fulfilling control mechanism for society. Debord's analysis developed the notions of \"reification\" and \"fetishism of the commodity\" pioneered by Karl Marx and Georg Lukács. Semiotics was also a major influence, particularly the work of his contemporary, Roland Barthes, who was the first to envisage bourgeois society as a spectacle, and to study in detail the political function of fashion within that spectacle. Debord's analysis of \"the spectaclist society\" probed the historical, economic, and psychological roots of the media and popular culture. Central to this school of thought was the claim that alienation is more than an emotive description or an aspect of individual psychology: rather, it is a consequence of the mercantile form of social organization that has reached its climax in capitalism, as theorized by Herbert Marcuse of the Frankfurt School. \n\nThe Situationist International (SI), a political/artistic movement organized by Debord and his colleagues and represented by a journal of the same name, attempted to create a series of strategies for engaging in class struggle by reclaiming individual autonomy from the spectacle. These strategies, including \"dérive\" and \"détournement,\" drew on the traditions of Lettrism. As founder of the SI, it has been suggested that Debord felt driven to generalize and define the values, ideas, and characteristics of the entire group, which may have contributed to his hand-picking and expulsion of members. The hierarchical and dictatorial nature of the SI existed, however, in the groups that birthed it, including the Letterists and the Surrealists.\n\nDebord's first book, \"Mémoires\", was bound with a sandpaper cover so that it would damage other books placed next to it.\n\nDebord has been the subject of numerous biographies, works of fiction, artworks, and songs, many of which are catalogued in the bibliography by Shigenobu Gonzalves, \"Guy Debord ou la Beauté du Negatif.\"\n\nOften, it is suggested that Debord was opposed to the creation of art, however, Debord writes in the Situationist International magazine (\"Contre le Cinema\") that he believes that \"ordinary\" (quotidian) people should make \"everyday\" (quotidian) art; art and creation should liberate from the spectacle, from capitalism, and from the banality of everyday life in contemporary society. In \"The Society of the Spectacle,\" Debord argues that it is the price put on art that destroys the integrity of the art object, not the material or the creation itself. It is important to note that Debord does not equate art to \"the spectacle.\"\n\nDebord began an interest in film early in his life when he lived in Cannes in the late 1940s. Debord recounted that, during his youth, he was allowed to do very little other than attend films. He said that he frequently would leave in the middle of a film screening to go home because films often bored him. Debord joined the Lettrists just as Isidore Isou was producing films and the Lettrists attempted to sabotage Charlie Chaplin's trip to Paris through negative criticism.\n\nOverall, Debord challenged the conventions of filmmaking; prompting his audience to interact with the medium instead of being passive receivers of information. As a matter of fact, his film \"Hurlements\" exclusively consists of a series of black and white screens and silence with a bit of commentary dispersed throughout. Debord directed his first film, \"Hurlements en faveur de Sade\" in 1952 with the voices of Michèle Bernstein and Gil Wolman. The film has no images represented; instead, it shows bright white when there is speaking and black when there is not. Long silences separate speaking parts. The film ends with 24 minutes of black silence. People were reported to have become angry and left screenings of this film. The script is composed of quotes appropriated from various sources and made into a montage with a sort of non-linear narrative.\n\nLater, through the financial support of Michèle Bernstein and Asger Jorn, Debord produced a second film, \"Sur le passage de quelques personnes à travers une assez courte unité de temps\", which combined scenes with his friends and scenes from mass media culture. This integration of Debord's world with mass media culture became a running motif climaxing with \"The Society of the Spectacle\". Debord wrote the book \"The Society of the Spectacle\" before writing the movie. When asked why he made the book into a movie, Debord said, \"I don't understand why this surprised people. The book was already written like a script\". Debord's last film, \"Son Art et Son Temps\", was not produced during his lifetime. It worked as a final statement where Debord recounted his works and a cultural documentary of \"his time\".\n\n\"Complete Cinematic Works\" (AK Press, 2003, translated and edited by Ken Knabb) includes the scripts for all six of Debord's films, along with related documents and extensive annotations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2015165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2015165", "title": "Hagia Sophia, Trabzon", "text": "Hagia Sophia, Trabzon\n\nHagia Sophia (, meaning \"Holy Wisdom\" ) is a museum, formerly Greek Orthodox church which was converted into a mosque in 1584, and located in Trabzon, in the north-eastern part of Turkey. It dates back to the thirteenth century when Trabzon was the capital of the Empire of Trebizond. It is located near the seashore and two miles west of the medieval town's limits. It is one of a few dozen Byzantine sites still extant in the area. It has been described as being \"regarded as one of the finest examples of Byzantine architecture.\"\n\nHagia Sophia was built in Trebizond during the reign of Manuel I between 1238 and 1263. The oldest graffiti carved in the apses of the church contain the dates 1291 and 1293. After Mehmed II conquered the city in 1461, the church was possibly converted into a mosque and its frescos covered in whitewash. Other scholars suggest it was not converted until 1584, being spared the initial transformation because it stood several kilometers outside the city walls. The monastery next door continued to be used by monks as late as 1701, when Tournefort found them still in residence. It is likely that the monks gradually abandoned a building that failed to protect them from harassment and predation, and the Turks assumed its use without needing to expel them. \n\nDuring World War I and for a brief period afterward, the city was occupied by the Russian military and used as a makeshift hospital and depot. Afterwards it was put back into use as a mosque, until 1964 when it was turned into a museum - which it remains to this day. Between 1958 and 1964 the surviving frescoes were uncovered and the church consolidated with the help of experts from the University of Edinburgh and the General Directorate of Foundations; one expert involved in the work estimated no more than one-sixth of the original decorations had survived. All that did survive, however, are thought to be original works done just after its construction, and are considered part of the Byzantine 'Palaiologic Renaissance'.\n\nThe Hagia Sophia church is an important example of late Byzantine architecture, being characterised by a high central dome and four large column arches supporting the weight of the dome and ceiling. Below the dome is an \"Opus sectile\" pavement of multicolored stones. The church was built with a cross-in-square plan, but with an exterior form that takes the shape of a cross thanks to prominent north and south porches. The structure is 22 metres long, 11.6 metres wide and 12.7 metres tall. The late 13th-century frescos, revealed during the University of Edinburgh restoration, illustrate New Testament themes. External stone figurative reliefs and other ornamenting is in keeping with local traditions found in Georgia. 24 metres to the west of the church is a tall bell tower, 40 metres high. It was built in 1427 and houses a small chapel on its second floor. The internal walls of the bell tower are covered in frescoes. It was also used as an observatory by local astronomers.\n\nIn 2012, the religious authorities (Diyanet) filed a lawsuit against the ministry of culture, claiming the ministry had been 'illegally occupying' the church for some decades. The Diyanet won the case, getting ownership of the building. On 5 July 2013, the former church was partially converted for a while into a mosque according to the local Vakif Direction of Trabzon, which is the owner of the estate. The reconstruction works have already been started. Some frescoes were veiled and the floor covered by a carpet. The mufti of the Turkish province Trabzon said that “the works for opening the Hagia Sophia mosque in the city to practice prayers again are going on,” and that “during the prayer the mural paintings will be covered by curtains\". The local union of architects from Trabzon filed a lawsuit against the ministry of religious affairs' conversion plan. A local judge ruled the transformation of the former church to be illegal, and ordered it to be maintained as a museum.\n\nThe church figures prominently and has key significance for the author's spiritual development in Rose Macaulay's novel \"The Towers of Trebizond\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44886087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44886087", "title": "Hanelle Culpepper", "text": "Hanelle Culpepper\n\nHanelle M. Culpepper is an American filmmaker, best known for her work in television directing episodes of \"90210\", \"Parenthood\", \"Criminal Minds\", \"Revenge\" and \"Grimm\" along with other series. In addition, she also directed the feature films \"Within\" (2009), \"Deadly Sibling Rivalry\" (2011), \"Murder on the 13th Floor\" (2012) and \"Hunt for the Labyrinth Killer\" (2013). Prior to working in television, she worked as a production assistant and directed and produced short films.\n\nA native of Alabama, she is an alumna of Indian Springs School and Lake Forest College, where she majored in economics and French. She earned her M.A. from USC Annenberg School for Communication.\n\nCulpepper was nominated for an NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Directing in a Drama Series for her episode of \"Criminal Minds\", \"The Edge of Winter.\" Shemar Moore won the Image Award for Best Actor for the episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2769352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2769352", "title": "Japanese painting", "text": "Japanese painting\n\nAreas of subject matter where Chinese influence has been repeatedly significant include Buddhist religious painting, ink-wash painting of landscapes in the Chinese literati painting tradition, calligraphy of ideographs, and the painting of animals and plants, especially birds and flowers. However distinctively Japanese traditions have developed in all these fields. The subject matter that is widely regarded as most characteristic of Japanese painting, and later printmaking, is the depiction of scenes from everyday life and narrative scenes that are often crowded with figures and detail. This tradition no doubt began in the early medieval period under Chinese influence that is now beyond tracing except in the most general terms, but from the period of the earliest surviving works had developed into a specifically Japanese tradition that lasted until the modern period.\n\nThe official List of National Treasures of Japan (paintings) includes 158 works or sets of works from the 8th to the 19th century (though including a number of Chinese paintings that have long been in Japan) that represent peaks of achievement, or very rare survivals from early periods.\n\nThe origins of painting in Japan date well back into Japan's prehistoric period. Simple figural representations, as well as botanical, architectural, and geometric designs are found on Jōmon period pottery and Yayoi period (300 BC – 300 AD) \"dōtaku\" bronze bells. Mural paintings with both geometric and figural designs have been found in numerous tumuli dating to the Kofun period and Asuka period (300–700 AD).\n\nAlong with the introduction of the Chinese writing system (\"kanji\"), Chinese modes of governmental administration, and Buddhism in the Asuka period, many art works were imported into Japan from China and local copies in similar styles began to be produced.\n\nWith the further establishment of Buddhism in 6th- and 7th-century Japan, religious painting flourished and was used to adorn numerous temples erected by the aristocracy. However, Nara-period Japan is recognized more for important contributions in the art of sculpture than painting.\n\nThe earliest surviving paintings from this period include the murals on the interior walls of the at the temple Hōryū-ji in Ikaruga, Nara Prefecture. These mural paintings, as well as painted images on the important Tamamushi Shrine include narratives such as \"jataka\", episodes from the life of the historical Buddha, Shakyamuni, in addition to iconic images of buddhas, bodhisattvas, and various minor deities. The style is reminiscent of Chinese painting from the Sui dynasty or the late Sixteen Kingdoms period. However, by the mid-Nara period, paintings in the style of the Tang dynasty became very popular. These also include the wall murals in the Takamatsuzuka Tomb, dating from around 700 AD. This style evolved into the (Kara-e) genre, which remained popular through the early Heian period.\n\nAs most of the paintings in the Nara period are religious in nature, the vast majority are by anonymous artists. A large collection of Nara period art, Japanese as well as from the Chinese Tang dynasty is preserved at the Shōsō-in, an 8th-century repository formerly owned by Tōdai-ji and currently administered by the Imperial Household Agency.\n\nWith the development of the Esoteric Buddhist sects of Shingon and Tendai, painting of the 8th and 9th centuries is characterized by religious imagery, most notably painted . Numerous versions of mandala, most famously the \"Diamond Realm Mandala\" and \"Womb Realm Mandala\" at Tōji in Kyoto, were created as hanging scrolls, and also as murals on the walls of temples. A noted early example is at the five-story pagoda of Daigo-ji, a temple south of Kyoto.\n\nWith the rising importance of Pure Land sects of Japanese Buddhism in the 10th century, new image-types were developed to satisfy the devotional needs of these sects. These include , which depict Amida Buddha along with attendant bodhisattvas Kannon and Seishi arriving to welcome the souls of the faithful departed to Amida's Western Paradise. A noted early example dating from 1053 are painted on the interior of the Phoenix Hall of the Byōdō-in, a temple in Uji, Kyoto. This is also considered an early example of so-called , insofar as it includes landscape elements such as soft rolling hills that seem to reflect something of the actual appearance of the landscape of western Japan. Stylistically, however, this type of painting continues to be informed by Tang Dynasty Chinese \"blue and green style\" landscape painting traditions. \"Yamato-e\" is an imprecise term that continues to be debated among historians of Japanese art.\n\nThe mid-Heian period is seen as the golden age of \"Yamato-e,\" which were initially used primarily for sliding doors (\"fusuma\") and folding screens (\"byōbu\"). However, new painting formats also came to the fore, especially towards the end of the Heian period, including \"emakimono\", or long illustrated handscrolls. Varieties of \"emakimono\" encompass illustrated novels, such as the \" Genji Monogatari \", historical works, such as the \" Ban Dainagon Ekotoba \", and religious works. In some cases, \"emaki\" artists employed pictorial narrative conventions that had been used in Buddhist art since ancient times, while at other times they devised new narrative modes that are believed to convey visually the emotional content of the underlying narrative. \"Genji Monogatari\" is organized into discreet episodes, whereas the more lively \"Ban Dainagon Ekotoba\" uses a continuous narrative mode in order to emphasize the narrative's forward motion. These two \"emaki\" differ stylistically as well, with the rapid brush strokes and light coloring of \"Ban Dainagon\" contrasting starkly to the abstracted forms and vibrant mineral pigments of the \"Genji\" scrolls. The \" Siege of the Sanjō Palace \" is another famous example of this type of painting.\n\n\"E-maki\" also serve as some of the earliest and greatest examples of the \"onna-e\" (\"women's pictures\") and \"otoko-e\" (\"men's pictures\") and styles of painting. There are many fine differences in the two styles. Although the terms seem to suggest the aesthetic preferences of each gender, historians of Japanese art have long debated the actual meaning of these terms, and they remain unclear. Perhaps most easily noticeable are the differences in subject matter. \"Onna-e\", epitomized by the \"Tale of Genji\" handscroll, typically deals with court life and courtly romance while \"otoko-e\", often deal with historical or semi-legendary events, particularly battles.\n\nThese genres continued on through Kamakura period Japan. \"E-maki\" of various kinds continued to be produced; however, the Kamakura period was much more strongly characterized by the art of sculpture, rather than painting.\n\nAs most of the paintings in the Heian and Kamakura periods are religious in nature, the vast majority are by anonymous artists.\n\nDuring the 14th century, the development of the great Zen monasteries in Kamakura and Kyoto had a major impact on the visual arts. \"Suibokuga,\" an austere monochrome style of ink painting introduced from the Song and Yuan dynasty China largely replaced the polychrome scroll paintings of the previous period, although some polychrome portraiture remained – primary in the form of \"chinso\" paintings of Zen monks. Typical of such painting is the depiction by the priest-painter Kaō of the legendary monk Kensu (Hsien-tzu in Chinese) at the moment he achieved enlightenment. This type of painting was executed with quick brush strokes and a minimum of detail.\n\n\"Catching a Catfish with a Gourd\" (located at Taizō-in, Myōshin-ji, Kyoto), by the priest-painter Josetsu, marks a turning point in Muromachi painting. In the foreground a man is depicted on the bank of a stream holding a small gourd and looking at a large slithery catfish. Mist fills the middle ground, and the background, mountains appear to be far in the distance. It is generally assumed that the \"new style\" of the painting, executed about 1413, refers to a more Chinese sense of deep space within the picture plane.\n\nBy the end of the 14th century, monochrome landscape paintings (山水画 \"sansuiga\") had found patronage by the ruling Ashikaga family and was the preferred genre among Zen painters, gradually evolving from its Chinese roots to a more Japanese style. A further development of landscape painting was the poem picture scroll, known as shigajiku.\n\nThe foremost artists of the Muromachi period are the priest-painters Shūbun and Sesshū. Shūbun, a monk at the Kyoto temple of Shōkoku-ji, created in the painting \"\" (1446) a realistic landscape with deep recession into space. Sesshū, unlike most artists of the period, was able to journey to China and study Chinese painting at its source. \"Landscape of the Four Seasons\" (\"Sansui Chokan\"; c. 1486) is one of Sesshu's most accomplished works, depicting a continuing landscape through the four seasons.\n\nIn the late Muromachi period, ink painting had migrated out of the Zen monasteries into the art world in general, as artists from the Kanō school and the Ami school () adopted the style and themes, but introducing a more plastic and decorative effect that would continue into modern times.\n\nImportant artists in the Muromachi period Japan include:\n\nIn sharp contrast to the previous Muromachi period, the Azuchi–Momoyama period was characterized by a grandiose polychrome style, with extensive use of gold and silver foil, and by works on a very large scale. The Kanō school, patronized by Oda Nobunaga, Toyotomi Hideyoshi, Tokugawa Ieyasu, and their followers, gained tremendously in size and prestige. Kanō Eitoku developed a formula for the creation of monumental landscapes on the sliding doors enclosing a room. These huge screens and wall paintings were commissioned to decorate the castles and palaces of the military nobility. This status continued into the subsequent Edo period, as the Tokugawa bakufu continued to promote the works of the Kanō school as the officially sanctioned art for the \"shōgun\", \"daimyōs\", and Imperial court.\n\nHowever, non-Kano school artists and currents existed and developed during the Azuchi–Momoyama period as well, adapting Chinese themes to Japanese materials and aesthetics. One important group was the Tosa school, which developed primarily out of the \"yamato-e\" tradition, and which was known mostly for small scale works and illustrations of literary classics in book or \"emaki\" format.\n\nImportant artists in the Azuchi-Momoyama period include:\n\nMany art historians show the Edo period as a continuation of the Azuchi-Momoyama period. Certainly, during the early Edo period, many of the previous trends in painting continued to be popular; however, a number of new trends also emerged.\n\nOne very significant school which arose in the early Edo period was the Rinpa school, which used classical themes, but presented them in a bold, and lavishly decorative format. Sōtatsu in particular evolved a decorative style by re-creating themes from classical literature, using brilliantly colored figures and motifs from the natural world set against gold-leaf backgrounds. A century later, Korin reworked Sōtatsu's style and created visually gorgeous works uniquely his own.\n\nAnother important genre which began during Azuchi–Momoyama period, but which reached its full development during the early Edo period was \"Namban\" art, both in the depiction of exotic foreigners and in the use of the exotic foreigner style in painting. This genre was centered around the port of Nagasaki, which after the start of the national seclusion policy of the Tokugawa shogunate was the only Japanese port left open to foreign trade, and was thus the conduit by which Chinese and European artistic influences came to Japan. Paintings in this genre include Nagasaki school paintings, and also the Maruyama-Shijo school, which combine Chinese and Western influences with traditional Japanese elements.\n\nA third important trend in the Edo period was the rise of the \"Bunjinga\" (literati painting) genre, also known as the Nanga school (Southern Painting school). This genre started as an imitation of the works of Chinese scholar-amateur painters of the Yuan dynasty, whose works and techniques came to Japan in the mid-18th century. Master Kuwayama Gyokushū was the greatest supporter of creating the \"bunjin\" style. He theorised that polychromatic landscapes were to be considered at the same level of monochromatic paintings by Chinese literati. Furthermore, he included some Japanese traditionalist artists, such as Tawaraya Sōtatsu and Ogata Kōrin of the Rinpa group, among major Nanga representatives. Later \"bunjinga\" artists considerably modified both the techniques and the subject matter of this genre to create a blending of Japanese and Chinese styles. The exemplars of this style are Ike no Taiga, Uragami Gyokudō, Yosa Buson, Tanomura Chikuden, Tani Bunchō, and Yamamoto Baiitsu.\n\nDue to the Tokugawa shogunate's policies of fiscal and social austerity, the luxurious modes of these genre and styles were largely limited to the upper strata of society, and were unavailable, if not actually forbidden to the lower classes. The common people developed a separate type of art, the \"fūzokuga,\" (風俗画, Genre art) in which painting depicting scenes from common, everyday life, especially that of the common people, \"kabuki\" theatre, prostitutes and landscapes were popular. These paintings in the 16th century gave rise to the paintings and woodcut prints of ukiyo-e.\n\nImportant artists in the Edo period include:\n\nThe prewar period was marked by the division of art into competing European styles and traditional indigenous styles.\n\nDuring the Meiji period, Japan underwent a tremendous political and social change in the course of the Europeanization and modernization campaign organized by the Meiji government. Western-style painting (\"yōga\") was officially promoted by the government, who sent promising young artists abroad for studies, and who hired foreign artists to come to Japan to establish an art curriculum at Japanese schools.\n\nHowever, after an initial burst of enthusiasm for western style art, the pendulum swung in the opposite direction, and led by art critic Okakura Kakuzō and educator Ernest Fenollosa, there was a revival of appreciation for traditional Japanese styles (Nihonga). In the 1880s, western style art was banned from official exhibitions and was severely criticized by critics. Supported by Okakura and Fenollosa, the \"Nihonga\" style evolved with influences from the European pre-Raphaelite movement and European romanticism.\n\nThe Yōga style painters formed the \"Meiji Bijutsukai\" (Meiji Fine Arts Society) to hold its own exhibitions and to promote a renewed interest in western art.\n\nIn 1907, with the establishment of the\" Bunten\" under the aegis of the Ministry of Education, both competing groups found mutual recognition and co-existence, and even began the process towards mutual synthesis.\n\nThe Taishō period saw the predominance of \"Yōga\" over \"Nihonga\". After long stays in Europe, many artists (including Arishima Ikuma) returned to Japan under the reign of Yoshihito, bringing with them the techniques of impressionism and early Post-Impressionism. The works of Camille Pissarro, Paul Cézanne and Pierre-Auguste Renoir influenced early Taishō period paintings. However, \"yōga\" artists in the Taishō period also tended towards eclecticism, and there was a profusion of dissident artistic movements. These included the Fusain Society (\"Fyuzankai\") which emphasized styles of post-impressionism, especially fauvism. In 1914, the \"Nikakai\" (Second Division Society) emerged to oppose the government-sponsored Bunten Exhibition.\n\nJapanese painting during the Taishō period was only mildly influenced by other contemporary European movements, such as neoclassicism and late post-impressionism.\n\nHowever, it was resurgent \"Nihonga\", towards mid-1920s, which adopted certain trends from post-impressionism. The second generation of \"Nihonga\" artists formed the Japan Fine Arts Academy (\"Nihon Bijutsuin\") to compete against the government-sponsored \"Bunten\", and although \"yamato-e\" traditions remained strong, the increasing use of western perspective, and western concepts of space and light began to blur the distinction between \"Nihonga\" and \"yōga\".\n\nJapanese painting in the prewar Shōwa period was largely dominated by Sōtarō Yasui and Ryūzaburō Umehara, who introduced the concepts of pure art and abstract painting to the \"Nihonga\" tradition, and thus created a more interpretative version of that genre. This trend was further developed by Leonard Foujita and the Nika Society, to encompass surrealism. To promote these trends, the Independent Art Association (\"Dokuritsu Bijutsu Kyokai\") was formed in 1931.\n\nDuring the World War II, government controls and censorship meant that only patriotic themes could be expressed. Many artists were recruited into the government propaganda effort, and critical non-emotional review of their works is only just beginning.\n\nImportant artists in the prewar period include:\n\nIn the postwar period, the government-sponsored Japan Art Academy (\"Nihon Geijutsuin\") was formed in 1947, containing both \"nihonga\" and \"yōga\" divisions. Government sponsorship of art exhibitions has ended, but has been replaced by private exhibitions, such as the \"Nitten\", on an even larger scale. Although the \"Nitten\" was initially the exhibition of the Japan Art Academy, since 1958 it has been run by a separate private corporation. Participation in the \"Nitten\" has become almost a prerequisite for nomination to the Japan Art Academy, which in itself is almost an unofficial prerequisite for nomination to the Order of Culture.\n\nThe arts of the Edo and prewar periods (1603–1945) was supported by merchants and urban people. Counter to the Edo and prewar periods, arts of the postwar period became popular. After World War II, painters, calligraphers, and printmakers flourished in the big cities, particularly Tokyo, and became preoccupied with the mechanisms of urban life, reflected in the flickering lights, neon colors, and frenetic pace of their abstractions. All the \"isms\" of the New York-Paris art world were fervently embraced. After the abstractions of the 1960s, the 1970s saw a return to realism strongly flavored by the \"op\" and \"pop\" art movements, embodied in the 1980s in the explosive works of Ushio Shinohara. Many such outstanding avant-garde artists worked both in Japan and abroad, winning international prizes. These artists felt that there was \"nothing Japanese\" about their works, and indeed they belonged to the international school. By the late 1970s, the search for Japanese qualities and a national style caused many artists to reevaluate their artistic ideology and turn away from what some felt were the empty formulas of the West. Contemporary paintings within the modern idiom began to make conscious use of traditional Japanese art forms, devices, and ideologies. A number of \"mono-ha\" artists turned to painting to recapture traditional nuances in spatial arrangements, color harmonies, and lyricism.\n\nJapanese-style or \"nihonga\" painting continues in a prewar fashion, updating traditional expressions while retaining their intrinsic character. Some artists within this style still paint on silk or paper with traditional colors and ink, while others used new materials, such as acrylics.\n\nMany of the older schools of art, most notably those of the Edo and prewar periods, were still practiced. For example, the decorative naturalism of the \"rimpa\" school, characterized by brilliant, pure colors and bleeding washes, was reflected in the work of many artists of the postwar period in the 1980s art of Hikosaka Naoyoshi. The realism of Maruyama Ōkyo's school and the calligraphic and spontaneous Japanese style of the gentlemen-scholars were both widely practiced in the 1980s. Sometimes all of these schools, as well as older ones, such as the Kanō school ink traditions, were drawn on by contemporary artists in the Japanese style and in the modern idiom. Many Japanese-style painters were honored with awards and prizes as a result of renewed popular demand for Japanese-style art beginning in the 1970s. More and more, the international modern painters also drew on the Japanese schools as they turned away from Western styles in the 1980s. The tendency had been to synthesize East and West. Some artists had already leapt the gap between the two, as did the outstanding painter Shinoda Toko. Her bold sumi ink abstractions were inspired by traditional calligraphy but realized as lyrical expressions of modern abstraction.\n\nThere are also a number of contemporary painters in Japan whose work is largely inspired by anime sub-cultures and other aspects of popular and youth culture. Takashi Murakami is perhaps among the most famous and popular of these, along with and the other artists in his Kaikai Kiki studio collective. His work centers on expressing issues and concerns of postwar Japanese society through what are usually seemingly innocuous forms. He draws heavily from anime and related styles, but produces paintings and sculptures in media more traditionally associated with fine arts, intentionally blurring the lines between commercial and popular art and fine arts.\n\nImportant artists in the postwar period include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37855901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37855901", "title": "Jeff Liu", "text": "Jeff Liu\n\nJeff Liu is an Asian-American writer, screenwriter, theater director, composer, and film director. \n\nHis theatrical productions include the world premieres of: \"Texas\", \"Solve for X\" by Judy Soo Hoo, \"Murderabilia\", \"Terminus Americana\" (Ovation Award nominee for Best World Premiere) by Matt Pelfrey, \"The Golden Hour\", \"Grace Kim and the Spiders from Mars\" by Philip W. Chung, \"The Chinese Massacre\" (ANNOTATED) by Tom Jacobson, and \"Ixnay\", \"Wrinkles and Slice\" by Paul Kikuchi.\n\nLiu wrote and directed a two-part film entitled \"Yellow Face\", based on the David Henry Hwang play of the same name, which is considered a hybrid of the stage drama, a YouTube sketch, and a short film. It premiered at the 2013 Los Angeles Asian Pacific Film Festival.\n\nHis comedic short films include: \"Great Moments in Asian American History\", \"Qi Lime Pie\", and \"A Super Duper Exotic Erotic Fetish Sexy Must-See Story\", which premiered with other \"naughty\" shorts at the 2012 San Diego Asian American Film Festival. \n\nLiu co-wrote \"Charlotte Sometimes\", a feature film directed by Eric Byler that explores the complex relationships among four Asian Americans which won the Audience Award for Best First Feature at the 2002 South by Southwest Film Festival and was nominated for two Independent Spirit Awards. \n\nPreviously, Liu was the Literary Manager at East West Players and the David Henry Hwang Writer's Institute at East West Players, and Resident Director for Lodestone Theatre Ensemble during its ten year run. \n\nLiu graduated Phi Beta Kappa from UC Berkeley in Dramatic Art and earned his MFA in Theatre Direction from the UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television.\n\n"}
{"id": "7629953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7629953", "title": "Laying Down the Law", "text": "Laying Down the Law\n\nTrial by Jury, or Laying Down the Law as it is commonly known, is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1840 by the English painter Sir Edwin Landseer, which satirises the legal profession. It depicts dogs in the roles of members of the court with a French poodle centre stage as the judge. The painting was inspired by a chance comment by a judge, while at dinner with Landseer, that the French poodle belonging to amateur artist and renowned socialite, the Count d'Orsay, \"would make a capital Lord Chancellor\".\n\nLandseer was a member of the Royal Academy and had become famous for his paintings and drawings of animals. His later works include \"The Monarch of the Glen\", an iconic and much-reproduced painting of a stag in the Highlands, and the sculptures of the lions at the foot of Nelson's Column in Trafalgar Square, London.\n\nHe completed \"Trial by Jury\" in 1840 — it was exhibited at the Royal Academy in the same year and was acquired by William Cavendish, 6th Duke of Devonshire, who had Landseer add his Blenheim spaniel, Bony, into the scene behind the greyhound. Early copies of the painting can be seen with Bony absent. The original now hangs in the Sculpture Gallery at Chatsworth House. The poodle has been variously identified as representing Lord Brougham, who had been Lord Chancellor from 1830 to 1834, or Lord Lyndhurst, who had held the post three times (1827–1830, 1834–1835, and 1841–1846).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27753", "title": "List of science fiction themes", "text": "List of science fiction themes\n\nThe following is a list of articles about recurring themes in science fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55591483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55591483", "title": "List of songs recorded by Beastie Boys", "text": "List of songs recorded by Beastie Boys\n\nAmerican hip hop group Beastie Boys recorded many songs during their career. Between 1982 and 2012, the group released eight studio albums, four compilation albums, seven extended plays, and forty singles. Beginning in 1981 as a four-piece hardcore punk group, Beastie Boys consisted of Michael \"Mike D\" Diamond, Adam \"MCA\" Yauch, Kate Schellenbach, and John Berry. In 1982, after the release of the EP, \"Polly Wog Stew\", Berry left the group and was replaced by Adam \"Ad-Rock\" Horovitz. A year later, the group released their debut single, \"Cooky Puss\", which marked a change in style to a more hip-hop oriented sound. The single garnered the attention of New York University student Rick Rubin, who, in 1984, would form Def Jam Recordings with Russell Simmons and ask Beastie Boys to join his label. Afterwards, Schellenbach left the group and the remaining three, Ad-Rock, Mike D, and MCA, decided to focus their attention on rap.\n\nWith Rubin's assistance on writing and producing, Beastie Boys released the singles \"Rock Hard\" in 1984 and \"She's on It\" in 1985, before releasing their debut studio album, \"Licensed to Ill\", in November 1986. The album was a huge commercial success, and received critical acclaim. Due to financial disagreements, Beastie Boys broke away from Def Jam and signed with Capitol Records in California. Produced by the Dust Brothers, they released their second album, \"Paul's Boutique\", in 1989. While commercially unsuccessful on release, \"Paul's Boutique\"'s reputation has grown significantly, with it being calling \"the \"Sgt. Pepper\" of hip-hop\" by \"Rolling Stone\" in 2013. After \"Paul's Boutique\", Beastie Boys released their next album, \"Check Your Head\", in 1992. More diverse than their previous albums, it was a commercial success and was supported by the singles \"Jimmy James\", \"Pass the Mic\", and \"So What'cha Want\". Their next album, \"Ill Communication\", topped the charts in the US. The music video for the album's lead single, \"Sabotage\", received extensive play on MTV. In 1995, the group saw a brief return to their hardcore punk roots with the EP \"Aglio e Olio\". The recurrence would be short-lived however, as, in 1998, their next studio album, \"Hello Nasty\", reverted to rap and featured bombastic beats, samples, and more experimentation than their previous albums. \"Hello Nasty\" topped the US charts was critically well-received. The album, as well as the lead single, \"Intergalactic\", earned the group two Grammy Awards in 1999. That same year, the group released the two-disc anthology compilation album, \"\", containing previously unreleased songs, B-sides, and greatest hits. The compilation was backed by the previously unreleased song, \"Alive\"; the single reached number eleven on the \"Billboard\"'s Modern Rock chart.\n\nThe group's first studio album in six years, \"To the 5 Boroughs\" was released in June 2004. The album was a commercial success, and received positive reviews from critics. The group's next album, the entirely instrumental \"The Mix-Up\", was released in 2007 and earned the group a Grammy Award for Best Pop Instrumental Album in 2008. In 2009, the group announced their next studio album, \"Hot Sauce Committee\", as a two-part album. The first part, \"Hot Sauce Committee Pt. 1\", was scheduled to be released in September 2009 but was delayed after Adam \"MCA\" Yauch was diagnosed with cancer. In 2010, \"Hot Sauce Committee Pt. 1\" was shelved indefinitely and would be replaced by \"Hot Sauce Committee Pt. 2\" in 2011. Released in 2011, \"Hot Sauce Committee Part Two\" received critical acclaim and debuted at number two on the \"Billboard\" 200. The album was supported by the singles, \"Lee Majors Come Again\", \"Too Many Rappers\", featuring American rapper Nas, \"Don't Play No Game That I Can't Win\", featuring American singer Santigold, and \"Make Some Noise\". A year later, on May 4, 2012, Adam Yauch died of cancer. After Yauch's death, Diamond and Horovitz announced that they would be open to making more music. However, in 2014, Diamond announced he and Horovitz ultimately decided they would no longer make music as Beastie Boys out of respect for Yauch.\n"}
{"id": "58969183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58969183", "title": "Minaret Kabir", "text": "Minaret Kabir\n\nMinaret Kabir belongs to Seljuk Empire. This relic was recorded as one of Iran’s National Heritage in the city of Tabas (north east of Iran), on 7 December 1935.\n"}
{"id": "49119237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49119237", "title": "Monnickendam Diamonds", "text": "Monnickendam Diamonds\n\nMonnickendam Diamonds Limited, with its main offices at Ely Place, London, carries out the business of diamond cutting and the selling of polished diamonds.\n\nMonnickendam Diamonds is a fourth generation family business that was founded in 1890 by Louis Monnickendam in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.\n\nIn 1914, Louis Monnickendam moved the business to the United Kingdom and established the head office in Hatton Garden, London.\n\nIn 1920, Albert (orse. Abraham) Monnickendam, the second president of the business, changed the name of the business to A. Monnickendam.\n\nIn 1941, the business became incorporated as A. Monnickendam Limited.\n\n\"Secrets of the Diamond\", by Abraham Monnickendam, was published by F. Muller Limited in 1941.\n\n\"The Magic of Diamonds\", by Abraham Monnickendam, was published by Hammond, Hammond & Company in 1955.\n\nIn 1966, A. Monnickendam Limited was awarded the Queen's Award for Industry for export achievement.\n\nArthur Monnickendam, the third president of the business, represented the diamond industry in the London Chamber of Commerce and became a member of CIBJO, the World Jewellery Confederation, representing the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1995, the business became incorporated as Monnickendam Diamonds Limited.\n\nGary Monnickendam is the current and fourth president of the business.\n\nIn May 2009 Gary Monnickendam cut a 7.03ct Fancy Vivid Blue Internally Flawless Diamond on behalf of Petra Diamonds. This diamond achieved the then highest price per carat ever paid for a diamond when it was sold at auction by Sotheby's in Geneva for 10.5 million Swiss francs (US$9.5 million at the time) which is in excess of US$1.3 million per carat.\n\nFrom the 1940s to the 1990s the business operated its diamond workshop at Medina House, in Hove, neighboring Brighton, on the south coast of England.\n\n"}
{"id": "1946204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946204", "title": "Music industry", "text": "Music industry\n\nThe music industry consists of the companies and individuals that earn money by creating new songs and pieces and selling live concerts and shows, audio and video recordings, compositions and sheet music, and the organizations and associations that aid and represent music creators. Among the many individuals and organizations that operate in the industry are: the songwriters and composers who create new songs and musical pieces; the singers, musicians, conductors and bandleaders who perform the music; the companies and professionals who create and sell recorded music and/or sheet music (e.g., music publishers, music producers, recording studios, engineers, record labels, retail and online music stores, performance rights organizations); and those that help organize and present live music performances (sound engineers, booking agents, promoters, music venues, road crew).\n\nThe industry also includes a range of professionals who assist singers and musicians with their music careers (talent managers, artists and repertoire managers, business managers, entertainment lawyers); those who broadcast audio or video music content (satellite, Internet radio stations, broadcast radio and TV stations); music journalists and music critics; DJs; music educators and teachers; musical instrument manufacturers; as well as many others. In addition to the businesses and artists who work in the music industry to make a profit or income, there is a range of organizations that also play an important role in the music industry, including musician's unions (e.g., American Federation of Musicians), not-for-profit performance-rights organizations (e.g., American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers) and other associations (e.g., International Alliance for Women in Music, a non-profit organization that advocates for women composers and musicians).\n\nThe modern Western music industry emerged between the 1930s and 1950s, when records replaced sheet music as the most important product in the music business. In the commercial world, \"the recording industry\"—a reference to recording performances of songs and pieces and selling the recordings–began to be used as a loose synonym for \"the music industry\". In the 2000s, a majority of the music market is controlled by three major corporate labels: the French-owned Universal Music Group, the Japanese-owned Sony Music Entertainment, and the US-owned Warner Music Group. Labels outside of these three major labels are referred to as independent labels (or \"indies\"). The largest portion of the live music market for concerts and tours is controlled by Live Nation, the largest promoter and music venue owner. Live Nation is a former subsidiary of iHeartMedia Inc, which is the largest owner of radio stations in the United States.\n\nIn the first decades of the 2000s, the music industry underwent drastic changes with the advent of widespread digital distribution of music via the Internet (which includes both illegal file sharing of songs and legal music purchases in online music stores). A conspicuous indicator of these changes is total music sales: since 2000, sales of recorded music have dropped off substantially while live music has increased in importance. In 2011, the largest recorded music retailer in the world was now a digital, Internet-based platform operated by a computer company: Apple Inc.'s online iTunes Store. Since 2011, the Music Industry has seen consistent sales growth with streaming now generating more revenue per annum than digital downloads. Spotify and Apple lead the way with online digital streaming. \n\nPrinted music in Europe:\n\nMusic publishing using machine-printed sheet music developed during the Renaissance music era in the mid-15th century. The development of music publication followed the evolution of printing technologies that were first developed for printing regular books. After the mid-15th century, mechanical techniques for printing sheet music were first developed. The earliest example, a set of liturgical chants, dates from about 1465, shortly after the Gutenberg Bible was printed. Prior to this time, music had to be copied out by hand. To copy music notation by hand was a very costly, labor-intensive and time-consuming process, so it was usually undertaken only by monks and priests seeking to preserve sacred music for the church. The few collections of secular (non-religious) music that are extant were commissioned and owned by wealthy aristocrats. Examples include the Squarcialupi Codex of Italian Trecento music and the Chantilly Codex of French Ars subtilior music.\n\nThe use of printing enabled sheet music to reproduced much more quickly and at a much lower cost than hand-copying music notation. This helped musical styles to spread to other cities and countries more quickly, and it also enabled music to be spread to more distant areas. Prior to the invention of music printing, a composer's music might only be known in the city she lived in and its surrounding towns, because only wealthy aristocrats would be able to afford to have hand copies made of her music. With music printing, though, a composer's music could be printed and sold at a relatively low cost to purchasers from a wide geographic area. As sheet music of major composer's pieces and songs began to be printed and distributed in a wider area, this enabled composers and listeners to hear new styles and forms of music. A German composer could buy songs written by an Italian or English composer, and an Italian composer could buy pieces written by Dutch composers and learn how they wrote music. This led to more blending of musical styles from different countries and regions.\n\nThe pioneer of modern music printing was Ottaviano Petrucci (born in Fossombrone in 1466 – died in 1539 in Venice ), a printer and publisher who was able to secure a twenty-year monopoly on printed music in Venice during the 16th century. Venice was one of the major business and music centers during this period. His \"Harmonice Musices Odhecaton\", a collection of chansons printed in 1501, is commonly misidentified as the first book of sheet music printed from movable type. Actually that distinction belongs to the Roman printer Ulrich Han's \"Missale Romanum\" of 1476. Nevertheless, Petrucci's later work was extraordinary for the complexity of his white mensural notation and the smallness of his font. He printed the first book of polyphony (music with two or more independent melodic lines) using movable type. He also published numerous works by the most highly regarded composers of the Renaissance, including Josquin des Prez and Antoine Brumel. He flourished by focusing on Flemish works, rather than Italian, as they were very popular throughout Europe during the Renaissance music era. His printing shop used the triple-impression method, in which a sheet of paper was pressed three times. The first impression was the staff lines, the second the words, and the third the notes. This method produced very clean and readable results, although it was time-consuming and expensive.\n\nUntil the 18th century, the processes of formal composition and of the printing of music took place for the most part with the support of patronage from aristocracies and churches. In the mid-to-late 18th century, performers and composers such as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart began to seek more commercial opportunities to market their music and performances to the general public. After Mozart's death, his wife (Constanze Weber) continued the process of commercialization of his music through an unprecedented series of memorial concerts, selling his manuscripts, and collaborating with her second husband, Georg Nissen, on a biography of Mozart.\nIn the 19th century, sheet-music publishers dominated the music industry. Prior to the invention of sound recording technologies, the main way for music lovers to hear new symphonies and opera arias (songs) was to buy the sheet music (often arranged for piano or for a small chamber music group) and perform the music in a living room, using friends who were amateur musicians and singers. In the United States, the music industry arose in tandem with the rise of \"black face\" minstrelsy. Blackface is a form of theatrical makeup used predominantly by non-black performers to represent a black person. The practice gained popularity during the 19th century and contributed to the spread of negative racial stereotypes of African-American people.\n\nIn the late part of the century the group of music publishers and songwriters which dominated popular music in the United States became known as Tin Pan Alley. The name originally referred to a specific place: West 28th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenue in Manhattan, and a plaque (see below) on the sidewalk on 28th Street between Broadway and Sixth commemorates it. The start of Tin Pan Alley is usually dated to about 1885, when a number of music publishers set up shop in the same district of Manhattan. The end of Tin Pan Alley is less clear-cut. Some date it to the start of the Great Depression in the 1930s when the phonograph and radio supplanted sheet music as the driving force of American popular music, while others consider Tin Pan Alley to have continued into the 1950s when earlier styles of American popular music were upstaged by the rise of rock & roll.\n\nAt the dawn of the early 20th century, the development of sound recording began to function as a disruptive technology to the commercial interests which published sheet music. During the sheet music era, if a regular person wanted to hear popular new songs, he or she would buy the sheet music and play it at home on a piano, or learn the song at home while playing the accompaniment part on piano or guitar. Commercially released phonograph records of musical performances, which became available starting in the late 1880s, and later the onset of widespread radio broadcasting, starting in the 1920s, forever changed the way music was heard and listened to. Opera houses, concert halls, and clubs continued to produce music and musicians and singers continued to perform live, but the power of radio allowed bands, ensembles and singers who had previously performed only in one region to become popular on a nationwide and sometimes even a worldwide scale. Moreover, whereas attendance at the top symphony and opera concerts was formerly restricted to high-income people in a pre-radio world, with broadcast radio, a much larger wider range of people, including lower and middle-income people could hear the best orchestras, big bands, popular singers and opera shows.\n\nThe \"record industry\" eventually replaced the sheet music publishers as the music industry's largest force. A multitude of record labels came and went. Some noteworthy labels of the earlier decades include the Columbia Records, Crystalate, Decca Records, Edison Bell, The Gramophone Company, Invicta, Kalliope, Pathé, Victor Talking Machine Company and many others. Many record companies died out as quickly as they had formed, and by the end of the 1980s, the \"Big six\" — EMI, CBS, BMG, PolyGram, WEA and MCA — dominated the industry. Sony bought CBS Records in 1987 and changed its name to Sony Music in 1991. In mid-1998, PolyGram Music Group merged with MCA Music Entertainment creating what we now know as Universal Music Group. Since then, Sony and BMG merged in 2004, and Universal took over the majority of EMI's recorded music interests in 2012. EMI Music Publishing, also once part of the now defunct British conglomerate, is now co-owned by Sony as a subsidiary of Sony/ATV Music Publishing.\n\nGenre-wise, music entrepreneurs expanded their industry models into areas like folk music, in which composition and performance had continued for centuries on an ad hoc self-supporting basis. Forming an independent record label, or \"indie\" label, or signing to such a label continues to be a popular choice for up-and-coming musicians, especially in genres like hardcore punk and extreme metal, despite the fact that indies cannot offer the same financial backing of major labels. Some bands prefer to sign with an indie label, because these labels typically give performers more artistic freedom.\n\nIn the first decade of the 2000s, digitally downloaded and streamed music became more popular than buying physical recordings (e.g. CDs, records and tapes). This gave consumers almost \"friction-less\" access to a wider variety of music than ever before, across multiple devices. At the same time, consumers spent less money on recorded music (both physically and digitally distributed) than they had in the 1990s. Total \"music-business\" revenues in the U.S. dropped by half, from a high of $14.6 billion in 1999 to $6.3 billion in 2009, according to Forrester Research.\nWorldwide revenues for CDs, vinyl, cassettes and digital downloads fell from $36.9 billion in 2000 to $15.9 billion in 2010 according to IFPI. \"The Economist\" and \"The New York Times\" reported that the downward trend was expected to continue for the foreseeable future. This dramatic decline in revenue has caused large-scale layoffs inside the traditional industry, driven some more venerable retailers (such as Tower Records) out of business and forced record companies, record producers, studios, recording engineers and musicians to seek new business models.\nIn response to the rise of widespread illegal file sharing of digital music-recordings, the record industry took aggressive legal action. In 2001 it succeeded in shutting down the popular music-website Napster, and threatened legal action against thousands of individuals who participated in sharing music-song sound-files. However, this failed to slow the decline in music-recording revenue and proved a public-relations disaster for the music industry. Some academic studies have even suggested that downloads did not cause the decline in sales of recordings. The 2008 British Music Rights survey showed that 80% of people in Britain wanted a legal peer-to-peer (P2P) file-sharing service, however only half of the respondents thought that the music's creators should be paid. The survey was consistent with the results of earlier research conducted in the United States, upon which the Open Music Model was based.\nLegal digital downloads became widely available with the debut of the Apple iTunes Store in 2003. The popularity of music distribution over the Internet has increased, and by 2011 digital music sales topped physical sales of music.\nAtlantic Records reports that digital sales have surpassed physical sales.\nHowever, as \"The Economist\" reported, \"paid digital downloads grew rapidly, but did not begin to make up for the loss of revenue from CDs\".\nAfter 2010, Internet-based services such as Deezer, Pandora, Spotify, and Apple's iTunes Radio began to offer subscription-based \"pay to stream\" services over the Internet. With streaming services, the user pays a subscription to a company for the right to listen to songs and other media from a library. Whereas with legal digital download services, the purchaser owns a digital copy of the song (which they can keep on their computer or on a digital media player), with streaming services, the user never downloads the song file or owns the song file. The subscriber can only listen to the song for as long as they continue to pay the streaming subscription. Once the user stops paying the subscription, they cannot listen to audio from the company's repositories anymore. Streaming services began to have a serious impact on the industry in 2014.\n\nSpotify, together with the music-streaming industry in general, faces some criticism from artists claiming they are not being fairly compensated for their work as downloaded-music sales decline and music-streaming increases. Unlike physical or download sales, which pay a fixed price per song or album, Spotify pays artists based on their \"market share\" (the number of streams for their songs as a proportion of total songs streamed on the service). Spotify distributes approximately 70% to rights-holders, who will then pay artists based on their individual agreements. The variable, and (some say) inadequate nature of this compensation, has led to criticism. Spotify reports paying on average US$0.006 to US$0.008 per stream. In response to concerns, Spotify claims that they are benefiting the music business by migrating \"them away from piracy and less monetised platforms and allowing them to generate far greater royalties than before\" by encouraging users to use their paid service.\n\nThe Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) revealed in its 2015 earnings report that streaming services were responsible for 34.3 percent of the year's U.S. recorded-music-industry revenue, growing 29 percent from the previous year and becoming the largest source of income, pulling in around $2.4 billion. US streaming revenue grew 57 percent to $1.6 billion in the first half of 2016 and accounted for almost half of industry sales. This contrasts with the $14.6 billion in revenue that was received in 1999 by the U.S. music industry from the sale of CDs.\nThe turmoil in the recorded-music industry in the 2000s altered the historically anomalous twentieth-century balance between artists, record companies, promoters, retail music-stores and consumers. , big-box stores such as Wal-Mart and Best Buy sell more records than music-only CD stores, which have ceased to function as a major player in the music industry. Music-performing artists now rely on live performance and merchandise sales (T-shirts, sweatshirts, etc.) for the majority of their income, which in turn has made them more dependent - like pre-20th-century musicians - on patrons, now exemplified by music promoters such as Live Nation (which dominates tour promotion and owns or manages a large number of music venues). In order to benefit from all of an artist's income streams, record companies increasingly rely on the \"360 deal\", a new business-relationship pioneered by Robbie Williams and EMI in 2007.\nAt the other extreme, record companies can offer a simple manufacturing- and distribution-deal, which gives a higher percentage to the artist, but does not cover the expenses of marketing and promotion.\nCompanies like Kickstarter help independent musicians produce their albums through fans funding bands they want to listen to. Many newer artists no longer see a record deal as an integral part of their business plan at all. Inexpensive recording-hardware and -software make it possible to record reasonable-quality music on a laptop in a bedroom and to distribute it over the Internet to a worldwide audience. This, in turn, has caused problems for recording studios, record producers and audio engineers: the \"Los Angeles Times\" reports that as many as half of the recording facilities in that city have failed.\nChanges in the music industry have given consumers access to a wider variety of music than ever before, at a price that gradually approaches zero. However, consumer spending on music-related software and hardware increased dramatically over the last decade, providing a valuable new income-stream for technology companies such as Apple Inc. and Pandora Radio.\n\nThe music industry is a complex system of many different organizations, firms and individuals. It has undergone dramatic changes in the first decades of the 21st century. However, the majority of the participants in the music industry still fulfill their traditional roles, which are described below. There are three types of property that are created and sold by the recording industry: compositions (songs, pieces, lyrics), recordings (audio and video) and media (such as CDs or MP3s, and DVDs). There may be many recordings of a single composition and a single recording will typically be distributed via many media. For example, the song \"My Way\" is owned by its composers, Paul Anka and Claude François, Frank Sinatra's recording of \"My Way\" is owned by Capitol Records, Sid Vicious's recording of \"My Way\" is owned by Virgin Records, and the millions of CDs and vinyl records that can play these recordings are owned by millions of individual consumers.\n\nSongs, instrumental pieces and other musical compositions are created by songwriters or composers and are originally owned by the composer, although they may be sold or the rights may be otherwise assigned. For example, in the case of work for hire, the composition is owned immediately by another party. Traditionally, the copyright owner licenses or \"assigns\" some of their rights to publishing companies, by means of a publishing contract. The publishing company (or a collection society operating on behalf of many such publishers, songwriters and composers) collects fees (known as \"publishing royalties\") when the composition is used. A portion of the royalties are paid by the publishing company to the copyright owner, depending on the terms of the contract. Sheet music provides an income stream that is paid exclusively to the composers and their publishing company. Typically (although not universally), the publishing company will provide the owner with an advance against future earnings when the publishing contract is signed. A publishing company will also promote the compositions, such as by acquiring song \"placements\" on television or in films.\n\nRecordings are created by recording artists, which includes singers, musicians (including session musicians) and musical ensembles (e.g., backing bands, rhythm sections, orchestras, etc.) usually with the assistance and guidance from record producers and audio engineers. They were traditionally made in recording studios (which are rented for a daily or hourly rate) in a recording session. In the 21st century, advances in digital recording technology have allowed many producers and artists to create \"home studios\" using high-end computers and digital recording programs like Protools, bypassing the traditional role of the commercial recording studio. The record producer oversees all aspects of the recording, making many of the logistic, financial and artistic decisions in cooperation with the artists. The record producer has a range of different responsibilities including choosing material and/or working with the composers, hiring session musicians, helping to arrange the songs, overseeing the musician performances, and directing the audio engineer during recording and mixing to get the best sound. Audio engineers (including recording, mixing and mastering engineers) are responsible for ensuring good audio quality during the recording. They select and set up microphones and use effects units and mixing consoles to adjust the sound and level of the music. A recording session may also require the services of an arranger, orchestrator, studio musicians, session musicians, vocal coaches, or even a discreetly-hired ghostwriter to help with the lyrics or songwriting.\nRecordings are (traditionally) owned by record companies. Some artists own their own record companies (e.g., Ani DiFranco). A recording contract specifies the business relationship between a recording artist and the record company. In a traditional contract, the company provides an advance to the artist who agrees to record music that will be owned by the company. The A&R department of a record company is responsible for finding new talent and overseeing the recording process. The company pays for the recording costs and the cost of promoting and marketing the record. For physical media (such as CDs), the company also pays to manufacture and distribute the physical recordings. Smaller record companies (known as \"indies\") will form business relationships with other companies to handle many of these tasks. The record company pays the recording artist a portion of the income from the sale of the recordings, also known as a \"royalty\", but this is distinct from the publishing royalties described above. This portion is similar to a percentage, but may be limited or expanded by a number of factors (such as free goods, recoupable expenses, bonuses, etc.) that are specified by the record contract. Session musicians and orchestra members (as well as a few recording artists in special markets) are under contract to provide work for hire; they are typically only paid one-time fees or regular wages for their services, rather than ongoing royalties.\n\nPhysical media (such as CDs or vinyl records) are sold by music retailers and are owned by the consumers after they buy them. Buyers do not typically have the right to make digital copies from CDs or other media they buy, or rent or lease the CDs, because they do not own the recording on the CD, they only own the individual physical CD. A music distributor delivers crates of the packaged physical media from the manufacturer to the retailer and maintains commercial relationships with retailers and record companies. The music retailer pays the distributor, who in turn pays the record company for the recordings. The record company pays mechanical royalties to the publisher and composer via a collection society. The record company then pays royalties, if contractually obligated, to the recording artist. In the case of digital downloads or online streaming of music, there is no physical media other than the consumer's computer memory on his or her portable media player or laptop. For this reason, artists such as Taylor Swift, Paul McCartney, Kings of Leon, and others have called for legal changes that would deny social media the right to stream their music without paying them royalties. In the digital and online music market of the 2000s, the distributor becomes optional. Large online shops may pay the labels directly, but digital distributors do exist to provide distribution services for vendors large and small. When purchasing digital downloads or listening to music streaming, the consumer may be required to agree to record company and vendor licensing terms beyond those which are inherent in copyright; for example, some services may allow consumers to freely share the recording, but others may restrict the user to storing the music on a specific number of hard drives or devices.\n\nWhen a recording is broadcast (either on radio or by a background music service such as Muzak), performance rights organisations (such as the ASCAP and BMI in the US, SOCAN in Canada, or MCPS and PRS in the UK), collect a third type of royalty known as a performance royalty, which is paid to songwriters, composers and recording artists. This royalty is typically much smaller than publishing or mechanical royalties. Within the past decade, more than \"15 to 30 percent\" of tracks on streaming services are unidentified with a specific artist. Jeff Price says \"Audiam, an online music streaming service, has made over several hundred thousand dollars in the past year from collecting royalties from online streaming. According to Ken Levitan, manager from Kings of Leon, Cheap Trick and others, \"Youtube has become radio for kids\". Because of the overuse of YouTube and offline streaming, album sales have fallen by 60 percent in the past few years. When recordings are used in television and film, the composer and their publishing company are typically paid through a synchronization license. In the 2000s, online subscription services (such as Rhapsody) also provide an income stream directly to record companies, and through them, to artists, contracts permitting.\n\nA promoter brings together a performing artist and a venue owner and arranges contracts. A booking agency represents the artist to promoters, makes deals and books performances. Consumers usually buy tickets either from the venue or from a ticket distribution service such as Ticketmaster. In the US, Live Nation is the dominant company in all of these roles: they own most of the large venues in the US, they are the largest promoter, and they own Ticketmaster. Choices about where and when to tour are decided by the artist's management and the artist, sometimes in consultation with the record company. Record companies may finance a tour in the hopes that it will help promote the sale of recordings. However, in the 21st century, it has become more common to release recordings to promote ticket sales for live shows, rather than book tours to promote the sales of recordings.\n\nMajor, successful artists will usually employ a road crew: a semi-permanent touring organization that travels with the artist during concert series. The road crew is headed by a tour manager. Crew members provides stage lighting, live sound reinforcement, musical instrument tuning and maintenance, bodyguard for the artist and transportation of the equipment and music ensemble members. On large tours, the road crew may also include an accountant, stage manager, hairdressers, makeup artists and catering staff. Local crews are typically hired to help move equipment on and off stage. On a small tour with less financial backing, all of these jobs may be handled by just a few roadies or by the musicians themselves. Bands signed with small \"indie\" labels and bands in genres such as hardcore punk are more likely to do tours without a road crew, or with minimal support.\n\nArtists such as singers and musicians may hire a number of people from other fields to assist them with their career. The artist manager oversees all aspects of an artist's career in exchange for a percentage of the artist's income. An entertainment lawyer assists them with the details of their contracts with record companies and other deals. A business manager handles financial transactions, taxes and bookkeeping. Unions, such as AFTRA and the American Federation of Musicians in the U.S. provide health insurance and instrument insurance for musicians. A successful artist functions in the market as a brand and, as such, they may derive income from many other streams, such as merchandise, personal endorsements, appearances (without performing) at events or Internet-based services. These are typically overseen by the artist's manager and take the form of relationships between the artist and companies that specialize in these products. Singers may also hire a vocal coach, dance instructor, acting coach, personal trainer or life coach to help them.\n\nIn the 2000s, traditional lines that once divided singers, instrumentalists, publishers, record companies, distributors, retail and consumer electronics have become blurred or erased. Artists may record in a home studio using a high-end laptop and a digital recording program such as Protools or use Kickstarter to raise money for an expensive studio recording session without involving a record company. Artists may choose to exclusively promote and market themselves using only free online video sharing services such as YouTube or using social media websites, bypassing traditional promotion and marketing by a record company. In the 2000s, consumer electronics and computer companies such as Apple Computer have become digital music retailers. New digital music distribution technologies and the trends towards using sampling of older songs in new songs or blending different songs to create \"mashup\" recordings have also forced both governments and the music industry to re-examine the definitions of intellectual property and the rights of all the parties involved. Also compounding the issue of defining copyright boundaries is the fact that the definition of \"royalty\" and \"copyright\" varies from country to country and region to region, which changes the terms of some of these business relationships.\n\nAccording to IFPI, the global digital album sales grew by 6.9% in 2014.\nSource: Nielsen SoundScan, Official Charts Company/BPI, GfK and IFPI estimate.\n\nPrior to December 1998, the industry was dominated by the \"Big Six\": Sony Music and BMG had not yet merged, and PolyGram had not yet been absorbed into Universal Music Group. After the PolyGram-Universal merger, the 1998 market shares reflected a \"Big Five\", commanding 77.4% of the market, as follows, according to MEI World Report 2000:\n\nIn 2004, the joint venture of Sony and BMG created the 'Big Four' at a time the global market was estimated at $30–40 billion. Total annual unit sales (CDs, music videos, MP3s) in 2004 were 3 billion. Additionally, according to an IFPI report published in August 2005, the big four accounted for 71.7% of retail music sales:\n\nNielsen SoundScan in their 2011 report noted that the \"big four\" controlled about 88% of the market:\n\nAfter the absorption of EMI by Sony Music Entertainment and Universal Music Group in December 2011 the \"big three\" were created and on January 8, 2013 after the merger there were layoffs of forty workers from EMI. European regulators forced Universal Music to spin off EMI assets which became the Parlophone Label Group which was acquired by Warner Music Group. Nielsen SoundScan issued a report in 2012, noting that these labels controlled 88.5% of the market, and further noted:\n\nNote: the IFPI and Nielsen Soundscan use different methodologies, which makes their figures difficult to compare casually, and impossible to compare scientifically.\nCurrent Markets shares as of September 2018 are as follows:\n\nThe largest players in this industry own more than 100 subsidiary record labels or sublabels, each specializing in a certain market niche. Only the industry's most popular artists are signed directly to the major label. These companies account for more than half of US market share. However, this has fallen somewhat in recent years, as the new digital environment allows smaller labels to compete more effectively.\n\nTotal album sales have declined in the early decades of the 21st century, leading some music critics to declare the death of the album. (For instance, the only albums that went platinum in the US in 2014 were the soundtrack to the Disney animated film \"Frozen\" and Taylor Swift's \"1989\", whereas several artists did in 2013.) The following table shows album sales and market value in the world in 2014.\n\nSource: IFPI 2014 annual report.\n\nIn its June 30, 2000 annual report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Seagram reported that Universal Music Group made 40% of the worldwide classical music sales over the preceding year.\n\nInterim physical retail sales in 2005. All figures in millions.\n\nApproximately 21% of the gross CD revenue numbers in 2003 can be attributed to used CD sales. This number grew to approximately 27% in 2007. The growth is attributed to increasing on-line sales of used product by outlets such as Amazon.com, the growth of used music media is expected to continue to grow as the cost of digital downloads continues to rise. The sale of used goods financially benefits the vendors and online marketplaces, but in the United States, the first-sale doctrine prevents copyright owners (record labels and publishers, generally) from \"double dipping\" through a levy on the sale of used music.\n\nIn mid-2011, the RIAA trumpeted a sales increase of 5% over 2010, stating that \"there's probably no one single reason\" for the bump.\n\nThe Nielsen Company & Billboard's 2012 Industry Report shows overall music sales increased 3.1% over 2011. Digital sales caused this increase, with a Digital Album sales growth of 14.1% and Digital Track sales growth of 5.1%, whereas Physical Music sales decreased by 12.8% versus 2011. Despite the decrease, physical albums were still the dominant album format. Vinyl Record sales increased by 17.7% and Holiday Season Album sales decreased by 7.1%.\n\nGlobal trade revenue according to the IFPI.\n\n\n\nIn the 15 or so years of the Internet economy, the digital music industry has come a long way, but there are still major hurdles to cross. Platforms like iTunes, Spotify, and Google Play are major improvements over the early illegal file sharing days, but the multitude of service offerings and revenue models make it difficult to understand the true value of each and what they can deliver for musicians and music companies. These difficulties are further compounded by the fact that, according to a new study from the Berklee College of Music and its Rethink Music initiative, there are major transparency problems throughout the music industry caused by outdated technology. With the emerging of new business models as streaming platforms, and online music services, a large amount of data is processed. Access to big data may increase transparency in the industry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55656241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55656241", "title": "P4W: Prison for Women", "text": "P4W: Prison for Women\n\nP4W: Prison for Women is a Canadian documentary film, directed by Janis Cole and Holly Dale and released in 1981. The film profiles several female inmates at the Prison for Women of Kingston Penitentiary.\n\nThe film premiered at the 1981 Festival of Festivals, and was broadcast by CBC Television in 1982. The film won the Genie Award for Best Feature Length Documentary at the 3rd Genie Awards in 1982.\n\nWhen the Prison for Women closed in 2000, Cole wrote a piece for the Toronto newspaper \"Now\" about her experiences making the film and her hopes for prison reform.\n"}
{"id": "2137053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2137053", "title": "Parable of the Ten Virgins", "text": "Parable of the Ten Virgins\n\nThe Parable of the Ten Virgins, also known as the Parable of the Wise and Foolish Virgins or the Parable of the ten bridesmaids, is one of the well known parables of Jesus. According to the Gospel of Matthew , the five virgins who are prepared for the bridegroom's arrival are rewarded, while the five who are not prepared are disowned. The parable has a clear eschatological theme: be prepared for the Day of Judgment. It was one of the most popular parables in the Middle Ages, with enormous influence on Gothic art, sculpture and the architecture of German and French cathedrals.\n\nIn the Parable of the Ten Virgins, Jesus tells a story about a party of virgins, perhaps bridesmaids or torchbearers for a procession, chosen to participate in a wedding. Each of the ten virgins is carrying a lamp or torch as they await the coming of the bridegroom, which they expect at some time during the night. Five of the virgins are wise and have brought oil for their lamps. Five are foolish and have only brought their lamps.\n\nAt midnight, all the virgins hear the call to come out to meet the bridegroom. Realising their lamps have gone out, the foolish virgins ask the wise ones for oil, but they refuse, saying that there will certainly not (Greek \"ou mē\") be enough for them to share. While the foolish virgins are away trying to get more oil, the bridegroom arrives. The wise virgins then accompany him to the celebration. The others arrive too late and are excluded.\n\nThe parable is one of a sequence of responses to a question in Matthew :\n\nOther parables in this sequence include the parable of the budding fig tree (Matthew 24:32–35) and the parable of the Faithful Servant (Matthew 24:42–51). The parable of the Ten Virgins reinforces the call for readiness in the face of the uncertain time of this second \"coming.\" It has been described as a \"watching parable.\" Like the parable of the Lost Coin, it is a parable about women which immediately follows, and makes the same point as, a preceding parable about men.\nIn this parable, Jesus Christ is the bridegroom, echoing the Old Testament image of God as the bridegroom in Jeremiah and similar passages. The awaited event is the Second Coming of Christ. R. T. France writes that the parable is \"a warning addressed specifically to those inside the professing church who are not to assume that their future is unconditionally assured.\"\n\nThe parable does not criticise the virgins for sleeping, since both groups do that, but for being unprepared as they brought no oil (it is unclear as to whether the foolish virgins succeed in purchasing any oil that night: most shops would not have been open).\n\nThe parable is not written in praise of virginity, and indeed Louis of Granada, in his \"The Sinner's Guide\" of 1555, writes \"No one makes intercession with the Bridegroom for the five foolish virgins who, after despising the pleasures of the flesh and stifling in their hearts the fire of concupiscence, nay, after observing the great counsel of virginity, neglected the precept of humility and became inflated with pride on account of their virginity.\"\n\nSpencer W. Kimball gave an LDS perspective on the difference between the wise and the foolish virgins, and why they could not share the oil: \"This was not selfishness or unkindness. The kind of oil that is needed to illuminate the way and light up the darkness is not shareable. How can one share obedience to the principle of tithing; a mind at peace from righteous living; an accumulation of knowledge? How can one share faith or testimony? How can one share attitudes or chastity... Each must obtain that kind of oil for himself ... In the parable, oil can be purchased at the market. In our lives the oil of preparedness is accumulated drop by drop in righteous living.\"\n\nWhile \"a considerable number of exegetes in fact suppose that the parable of 'The Wise and Foolish Virgins' ultimately goes back to Jesus,\" some Bible commentators, because of its eschatological nature, doubt that Jesus ever told this parable and that, instead, it is a parable created by the very early church. A large majority of fellows on the Jesus Seminar, for example, designated the parable as merely similar to something Jesus might have said or simply inauthentic (\"gray\" or \"black\"). Other scholars believe that this parable has only been lightly edited, and is an excellent example of Jesus' skill in telling parables. The parable occurs in all ancient New Testament manuscripts, with only slight variations in some words.\n\nIn the Catholic Church, the parable is the Gospel reading for the 32nd Sunday in Ordinary Time in Cycle A; in the extraordinary form of the Roman rite (Tridentine Mass), the parable is the Gospel reading for Masses of virgins and virgin martyrs (including, by coincidence, St. Cecily on November 22 and St. Catherine on November 25, giving it a certain prominence at the fitting time of the end of the liturgical year). The parable is the Gospel reading for the 27th Sunday after Trinity in the traditional Lutheran lectionary. In the Revised Common Lectionary, the parable is read in \"Proper 27 (32nd Sunday in Ordinary Time)\". \n\nIn the Armenian Orthodox Church the parable is the main theme of Holy Monday. A special Church service enacting the parable of the ten virgins is celebrated on Tuesday evening of the Holy Week.\n\nIn the Syriac Orthodox Church, the parable is used to commemorate the Sunday vespers service of Nahire. Nahire symbolizes our lives in accordance with the 10 virgins that only through a life of dedication, vigilance, fasting and prayer can we be ready for the Bridegroom himself.\n\nThis parable has been a popular subject for painting, sculpture, music, and drama.\n\nThe parable has been depicted in several paintings, including altarpieces in Northern Europe. A recent example, from 1954, is by Tove Jansson. In the 19th century, the artists of the Nazarene movement also took up this theme.\n\nSculptures of the wise and foolish virgins were a common motif in mediaeval ecclesial architecture in Europe, especially for the decoration of doorways, and carved figures representing them appear on many of the mediaeval churches and cathedrals of the Gothic style, including:\n\n\nThe virgins are also depicted on cathedrals in Switzerland and other countries; the portal leading into the main church of Hovhannavank (1216-1221) in Armenia has carved scenes from the Parable of the Wise and Foolish Virgins.\n\nThe ubiquity of such sculptures has inspired fictional descriptions, such as the carvings on the doors of Kingsbridge cathedral in Ken Follett's novel \"World Without End\", set in the Late Middle Ages.\n\nSeveral religious musical compositions have been inspired by the parable. Its message was formed into a hymn, \"Wachet auf, ruft uns die Stimme\", by Philipp Nicolai, which Johann Sebastian Bach used for his chorale cantata \"Wachet auf, ruft uns die Stimme\", BWV 140. The parable forms the theme for several hymns, including the 19th century hymn \"Behold the Bridegroom Cometh\" by George Frederick Root, which begins:\nOur lamps are trimmed and burning,<br>\nOur robes are white and clean;<br>\nWe’ve tarried for the Bridegroom,<br>\nOh, may we enter in?\nThe Wise Virgins is a one-act ballet, written in 1941 by William Walton, based on the music of Johann Sebastian Bach, with choreography by Frederick Ashton. It is based on the biblical Parable of the Ten Virgins.\n\n\"Keep Your Lamp Trimmed and Burning\" is a gospel blues song based on the parable. It has been recorded by such artists as Blind Willie Johnson, Reverend Pearly Brown, and Rev. \"Blind\" Gary Davis.\n\nNon-religious music has also used the parable as a theme, such as the ballet \"The wise and the foolish virgins\" by Swedish composer Kurt Atterberg (1887–1974), written in 1920.\n\nA reference is made to the parable in the 2002 Johnny Cash song \"The Man Comes Around,\" which draws heavily on the Bible.\n\nOn the 1974 album by Genesis - \"The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway\", a reference to the parable is made in the song \"The Carpet Crawlers\": \"and the wise and foolish virgins giggle with their bodies glowing bright.\"\n\nAmerican composer Emily Freeman-Brown has also composed an oratorio based on the parable. \n\nFrom early Christian times, the story of the ten virgins has been told as a mystery play. St Methodius wrote the \"Banquet of the Ten Virgins\", a mystery play in Greek. \"Sponsus\", a mid-11th-century play, was performed in both Latin and Occitan. The German play \"Ludus de decem virginibus\" was first performed on 4 May 1321. There was also a Dutch play of the late Middle Ages.\n\n"}
{"id": "10541572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10541572", "title": "Parsian style", "text": "Parsian style\n\nThe \"Parsian style\" (New Persian:شیوه معماری پارسی) is a style of architecture (\"sabk\") when categorizing the history of Persian/Iranian architectural development. Although the Median and Achaemenid architecture fall under this classification, the pre-Achaemenid architecture is also studied as a sub-class of this category.\n\nThis style of architecture flourished from eighth century BCE from the time of the Median Empire, through the Achaemenid empire, to the arrival of Alexander III of Macedonia in the third century BCE\n\n"}
{"id": "55911855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55911855", "title": "Pavilion by the Lake", "text": "Pavilion by the Lake\n\nPavilion by the Lake (Chinese: \"\") is a painting during Korean peninsula’s Joseon dynasty period. Created in the late 18th century AD, this painting measures 45.4 cm in height and 27.6 cm in width. This painting is created by an unknown artist whose style name is \"Samoje\" (literally, \"Studio of Three-Five\"). The artist, probably a professional painter from the \"jungin\" (middle people) class of Joseon dynasty cannot be ascertained due to lack of documentation. So it is difficult to confirm the identity and the given name of the artist. The composition of the \"Pavilion by the Lake\" were likely adapted from popular painting manuals of Ming dynasty (1368–1644) imported from China. One of the most prominent examples for those painting manuals was the \"Mustard Seed Garden\" (, Jieziyuan Huazhuan) manual of painting.\n\nWith Chinese influence, Korean peninsula’s painting originated during the Three Kingdoms period in the form of mural painting. It eventually developed into monochrome painting or light painting. Naturalistic themes became popular subjects for Korean painting. The \"Pavilion by the Lake‍\", belonging to the late 18th century, was created during Korean peninsula’s Joseon dynasty period. It might be painted by a professional painter belonging to \"jungin\" or the middle people of Joseon. This painting measures 45.4 cm in height and 27.6 cm in width. The painter has used the term \"Samoje\" (literally, \"Studio of Three-Five\") as his style name. But neither definite identity nor the given name of the painter has ascertained. Current view is that \"Pavilion by the Lake\" was probably adapted from a popular Ming dynasty painting manual imported from China, such as the famous \"Mustard Seed Garden\" painting manual. In 1915, the painting was donated to Metropolitan Museum of Art by Rogers foundation. The painting was exhibited at the Korean Art exhibition of Metropolitan Museum in 2006 and 2010 respectively.\n"}
{"id": "9393546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9393546", "title": "Petäjävesi Old Church", "text": "Petäjävesi Old Church\n\nThe Petäjävesi Old Church () is a wooden church located in Petäjävesi, Finland. It was built between 1763 and 1765, when Tavastia was still a part of Sweden. The bell tower was built in 1821. It was inscribed in 1994 on the UNESCO World Heritage List. \n\nThe church is located about to the west of the centre of Petäjävesi. The church went out of use in 1879 when the new church was built. The old church has retained its original appearance and its interior decoration exceptionally well. It is a popular church for weddings in the summer, and there is a church service on most Sundays.\n\nThe church was built as the chapel for the area of Petäjävesi, which has belonged to the congregation of Jämsä. The local people had been given the permission to build a graveyard and a small village church at their own expense by the crown as early as in 1728 because the trip to Jämsä was long, however it took about 35 years until the construction began. The church was planned and built by Jaakko Klemetinpoika Leppänen, a church builder from Vesanka. In 1821 the windows were enlarged and the sacristy was moved from the northern part of the church to the east. The bell tower was also added by Erkki Leppänen, the grandson of the original builder.\n\nThe cross-type floor plan of the church came into use in the Nordic countries at the end of the 17th century and became common in the 18th century in the countryside churches . The high roof resembles the earlier gothic style.\n\nAfter the new church was built, the old remained abandoned for a long time. Only the cemetery around the church and the belltower were in use. In the 1920s an Austrian art historian Josef Strzygowski noticed the architectural and historical value of the church and since 1929 it has been restored several times. In 1994 it was approved in the UNESCO's World Heritage Sites representing typical eastern Scandinavian wooden church tradition.\n\n"}
{"id": "34507539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34507539", "title": "Pia de' Tolomei (Rossetti painting)", "text": "Pia de' Tolomei (Rossetti painting)\n\nPia de' Tolomei is an oil painting on canvas by English artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, painted around 1868 and currently housed at the Spencer Museum of Art, on the campus of the University of Kansas in Lawrence, Kansas. \n\nThis work was painted at the start of Rossetti's affair with Jane Morris, who modelled for the picture. As he was to do with \"Beata Beatrix\" (1870), Rossetti chose a tale by Dante Aligheri (from \"Purgatorio\") to illustrate his love for his model. The story tells of a woman whose husband imprisoned and later poisoned her: Rossetti wanted the world to believe the fantasy with which he was deluding himself - that William Morris kept Jane against her will. He continued this theme, as shown in \"Proserpine\".\n\nRossetti not only drew Jane exhaustively, he also choreographed photographic sessions of her and used the photographs as preliminary sketches for drawings. Amongst other representations of her, Rossetti depicts Jane as Proserpine, Queen Guinevere and Desdemona - all of whom were at the mercy of men.\n\nJane appears disproportionately large in most of Rossetti's pictures. The background is immaterial as long as the viewer focuses on the beauty of her face. In \"Pia de' Tolomei\" her elongated neck seems almost dislocated, and the whiteness of her skin shines out, defying the viewer to pay attention to any other aspects of the painting. Miller's hair colour is misrepresented in the painting. Her natural colour was dark brown, yet Rossetti paints it with an auburn tinge - closer to Lizzie Siddal's hair colour than Miller's. Also, her hands are twisted and intertwined in a peculiar way.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3466658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3466658", "title": "Plateresque", "text": "Plateresque\n\nPlateresque, meaning \"in the manner of a silversmith\" (\"plata\" being silver in Spanish), was an artistic movement, especially architectural, developed in Spain and its territories, which appeared between the late Gothic and early Renaissance in the late 15th century, and spread over the next two centuries. It is a modification of Gothic spatial concepts and an eclectic blend of Mudéjar, Flamboyant Gothic and Lombard decorative components, as well as Renaissance elements of Tuscan origin. \n\nExamples of this syncretism are the inclusion of shields and pinnacles on facades, columns built in the Renaissance neoclassical manner, and facades divided into three parts (in Renaissance architecture they are divided into two). It reached its peak during the reign of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, especially in Salamanca, but also flourished in other such cities of the Iberian Peninsula as León and Burgos and in the territory of New Spain, which is now Mexico. \n\nPlateresque has been considered down to current times a Renaissance style by many scholars. To others, it is its own style, and sometimes receives the designation of \"Protorenaissance\". Some even call it \"First Renaissance\" in a refusal to consider it as a style in itself, but to distinguish it from non-Spanish Renaissance works.\n\nThe style is characterized by ornate decorative facades covered with floral designs, chandeliers, festoons, fantastic creatures and all sorts of configurations. The spatial arrangement, however, is more clearly Gothic-inspired. This fixation on specific parts and their spacing, without structural changes of the Gothic pattern, causes it to be often classified as simply a variation of Renaissance style. In New Spain the Plateresque acquired its own configuration, clinging tightly to its Mudéjar heritage and blending with Native American influences.\n\nIn Spain its development is most remarkable in the city of Salamanca although examples are found in most regions of the country.\n\nIn the 19th century with the rise of historicism, the Plateresque architectural style was revived under the name of Monterrey Style.\n\nThe name Plateresque came from the silversmith trade. Diego Ortiz de Zúñiga used it for the first time, applying it to the Royal Chapel of the Cathedral of Seville in the 17th century.\n\nTraditionally Plateresque has been considered a style exclusively \"Spanish\", a term also applied to architecture in the Spanish territories held by the Spanish Crown between the 15th and 17th centuries. But by the mid-20th century this geographical connotation was questioned under the arguments of several authors, especially Camón Aznar (1945) and Rosenthal (1958), who defined Plateresque generically as a unitary amalgam of elements – Gothic, Muslim, and Renaissance. Aznar does not regard it as a style properly denoted as Renaissance, and Rosenthal emphasizes its association with certain buildings in other European countries, mainly France and Portugal, but also Germany and others.\n\nThis problem highlights the imprecision of the name Plateresque and the difficulties inherent in using it to describe productions from a period of confusion and transition between styles, especially since they are characterized by decorative profusion suggesting an attempt to disguise the failure of Spanish architects to develop new structural and spatial ideas. It has even been suggested that this problem could be solved by identifying what is called Plateresque as the replacement of Gothic decoration with grotesques inspired by the works of the Italian Sebastiano Serlio.\n\nAny persuasive argument, however, must admit that the Plateresque or Protorenaissance was an artistic movement that responded to the demands of the ruling classes of imperial Spain, which had just completed the Reconquista and begun the colonization of the Americas. The Spanish were developing a consciousness of their growing power and wealth, and in their exuberance launched a period of construction of grand monuments to symbolize these with what are now considered national treasures.\n\nTypical Plateresque facades, like those of altarpieces, were made as carefully as if they were the works of goldsmiths, and decorated as profusely. The decoration, although of various inspirations, was mainly of plant motifs, but also had a profusion of medallions, heraldic devices and animal figures, among others. Plateresque utilized a wealth of materials: gold plates on crests and roofs, vases, etc. There is evidence of more polychrome works at the conclusion of the first third of the 16th century, when there appeared heraldic crests of historical provenance and long balustrades, to mention one kind of less busy decoration.\n\nThe proliferation of decoration for all architectural surfaces led to the creation of new surfaces and subspaces, which were in turn decorated profusely, such as niches and aediculas.\n\nItalian elements were also being developed progressively as decoration: rustications, classical capitals, Roman arches and especially grotesques.\n\nThe decoration had specific meanings and can not be read as merely decorative; thus laurels, military shields and horns-of-plenty were placed in the houses of military personnel. In a similar vein, Greek and Roman myths were depicted elsewhere to represent abstract humanist ideals, so that the decorative became a means to express and disseminate Renaissance ideals.\n\nPlataresque implemented and preferred new spatial aspects, so \"caustrales\", or stairs of open boxes, made their appearance. However, there were few spatial changes with respect to the Gothic tradition.\n\nIn America, especially in today's Mexico, various indigenous cultures were in certain stages of development that can be considered Baroque when the Spanish brought with them the Plateresque style. This European phenomenon mixed symbiotically with local traditions, so that pure Gothic architecture was not built in America itself, but the Plateresque mixed with Native American influences, soon evolving into what came to be called American Baroque.\n\nThe Plateresque style follows the line of Isabelline, where decorative elements of Italianate origin combine with Iberian traditional elements to form ornamental complexes that overlay the Gothic structures. We can speak of Plateresque that retains Gothic forms as a basis until 1530. After that date, although it continued to be used and Plateresque ornaments were still evolving, it became part of an architecture that was beginning to incorporate Renaissance ideas. In 1563, with the start of construction of the monastery of San Lorenzo de El Escorial, the Renaissance architecture was purified through the interventions of Juan de Herrera, which ended the splendor and spread of the Plateresque in the Iberian Peninsula. But in Mexico it was not forgotten, leading to a Neo-Plateresque style in the 18th century.\n\nIn any case the Plateresque, considered or not as a style, and whether exclusively Spanish or more broadly European, represents the transition between Gothic and Renaissance styles.\n\nIn the 15th century a tendency to decorate with flamboyance began to develop in the Crown of Castile from Flemish, Islamic and Castilian architecture, which received the name of Isabelline Gothic because most of the construction was done at the command of Isabella I of Castile. These ornaments, which were of progressive complexity, did not influence the internal structure of the buildings.\n\nSomething similar happened in the same period in Portugal, resulting in what became known as the Manueline style.\n\nA movement began in late 15th century Spain to disguise Gothic buildings with florid decoration, especially grotesques, but the superficial application of this principle did not change the spatial qualities or architectural structure of those buildings. This process began when the Renaissance arrived in Spain and architects began copying Renaissance architectural features without understanding the new ideas behind them, that is, without letting go of medieval forms and ideas.\n\nMany of the Plateresque buildings were already built, to which were added only layers of Renaissance ornamentation, especially around openings (windows and doors), and in general, all non-architectural elements, with some exceptions.\n\nAlthough the appellation 'Plateresque' is usually applied to the act of superimposing new Renaissance elements on forms governed by medieval guidelines in architecture, this trend is also seen in the Spanish painting and sculpture of the time.\n\nThis is the period in which the Renaissance had taken hold on the Iberian Peninsula, although it had not yet reached its peak there. That event occurred with the amendments by Juan de Herrera and Philip II of Spain to the design of the monastery of El Escorial, whose construction began in 1563.\n\nBy that time the decoration, though still profuse, is completely within Italianate parameters and applied to buildings designed according to the logic of Renaissance ideas.\n\nThe Monterrey style arose in the 19th century. It was named after the Palace of Monterrey in Salamanca, which was built in a Neo-Plateresque style, an historicism of the Plateresque.\n\nThe style survived until the early 20th century, featured in national and regional 'revivals'. It spread widely, and though not accepted in the critical circles of academia, some examples can be found on the Gran Vía of Madrid.\n\nIn Mexico there was also a new iteration of Plateresque which spread to the Southwestern United States, beginning in the first half of the 18th century. This Neo-plateresque is not to be confused with that of Spain at the end of 19th and early 20th centuries, the so-called Monterrey style.\n\n\n\nIn the Spanish Colonial Revival architecture style centuries later, it was differentiated from the earlier and plainer Mission Revival style with the additional refinement of Plateresque and Churrigueresque detailing. Bertram Goodhue and Carleton Winslow Sr. studied Spanish Colonial structures in Mexico before designing the 1915 Panama-California Exposition in San Diego, California, that introduced this style to the United States and subsequent widespread popularity. In Mexico there are other examples, such as the Palacio de Correos de Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "4884359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884359", "title": "Political cinema", "text": "Political cinema\n\nPolitical cinema in the narrow sense of the term is a cinema which portrays current or historical events or social conditions in a partisan way in order to inform or to agitate the spectator. Political cinema exists in different forms such as documentaries, feature films, or even animated and experimental films.\n\nPolitical cinema in the narrow sense of the term refers to political films which do not hide their political stance. This does not mean that they are necessarily pure propaganda. The difference to other films is not that they are political but how they show it.\n\nEven ostensibly \"apolitical\" escapist films, which promise \"mere entertainment\" as an escape from everyday life, however, fulfill a political function. The authorities in Nazi Germany knew this very well and organized a large production of deliberately escapist movies.\n\nIn other entertainment movies, for example westerns, the ideological bias is evident in the distortion of historical reality. A \"classical\" western would rarely portray black cowboys, although there were a great many of them. Hollywood Cinema or more generally speaking so called Dominant Cinema, was often accused of misrepresenting black, women, gays and working-class people.\n\nMore fundamentally not only the content of individual films is political but also the institution of cinema itself. A huge number of people congregate not to act together or to talk to each other but, after having paid for it, to sit silently, to be spectators separated from each other. (Of course the behaviour of the public is not always the same in all countries.) Guy Debord, a critic of the society of the spectacle, for whom \"separation is the alpha and omega of the spectacle\" was therefore also violently opposed to Cinema, even though he would make several movies portraying his ideas.\n\nBefore World War I French cinema had a big share of the world market. Hollywood used the collapse of the French production to establish its hegemony. Ever since it has dominated world film production not only economically but has transformed cinema into a means to disseminate American values.\n\nIn Germany the Universum Film AG, better known as UFA, was founded to counter the perceived dominance of western propaganda. During the Weimar Republic many films about Frederick II of Prussia had a conservative nationalistic agenda, as Siegfried Kracauer and other film critics noted.\n\nCommunists like Willi Münzenberg saw the Russian cinema as a model of political cinema. Soviet films by Sergei Eisenstein, Dziga Vertov and others combined a partisan view of the bolshevist regime with artistic innovation which also appealed to western audiences.\n\nLeni Riefenstahl has never been able or willing to face her responsibility as a chief propagandist for National Socialism. Almost unlimited resources and her undeniable talent led to results which despite their hideous aims still fascinate some film aficionados. There is much controversy around her work, but it is generally accepted that Riefenstahl's main commitment was to moviemaking, rather than to the Nazi party. Proof of that might be seen by the portrayal of Jesse Owens' victory on the movie \"Olympia\" (about the Olympic games in Germany) and in her later work, mostly on her photographic expeditions to Africa.\n\nThe same is certainly not true of the violently antisemite films of Fritz Hippler. Other Nazi political films made propaganda for so-called euthanasia.\n\nForm has always been an important concern for political film makers. While some, like pioneering Lionel Rogosin, argued that radical films, in order to liberate the imagination of the spectator, have to break not only with the content but also with the form of Dominant cinema, the falsely reassuring clichés and stereotypes of conventional narrative film making, other directors such as Francesco Rosi, Costa Gavras, Ken Loach, Oliver Stone, Spike Lee or Lina Wertmüller preferred to work within mainstream cinema to reach a wider audience.\n\nThe subversive tradition dates back at least to the French avant-garde of the 1920s. Even in his more conventional films Luis Buñuel stuck to the spirit of outright revolt of L'Âge d'or. The bourgeoisie had to be expropriated and all its values destroyed, the surrealists believed. This spirit of revolt is also present in all films of Jean Vigo.\n\nEspecially in the last decades of the twentieth century, many film makers considered focusing on remembrance of and reflection upon major collective crimes such as The Holocaust, slavery and disasters such as the Chernobyl disaster to be their political and moral duty.\n\nPolitical cinema of the twenty-first century seems to focus on controversial topics such as globalization, AIDS and other health-care concerns, issues pertaining to the environment, such as world energy resources and consumption and climate change, and other complex matters pertaining to terrorism, war, peace, religious and related forms of intolerance, and civil and political rights and other human rights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34025057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34025057", "title": "Projection mapping", "text": "Projection mapping\n\nProjection mapping, similar to video mapping and spatial augmented reality, is a projection technology used to turn objects, often irregularly shaped, into a display surface for video projection. These objects may be complex industrial landscapes, such as buildings, small indoor objects or theatrical stages. By using specialized software, a two- or three-dimensional object is spatially mapped on the virtual program which mimics the real environment it is to be projected on. The software can interact with a projector to fit any desired image onto the surface of that object. This technique is used by artists and advertisers alike who can add extra dimensions, optical illusions, and notions of movement onto previously static objects. The video is commonly combined with, or triggered by, audio to create an audio-visual narrative.\n\nAlthough the term \"projection mapping\" is relatively new, the technique dates back to the late 1990s, where it was referred to as video mapping, spatial augmented reality, or shader lamps. One of the first public displays of projections onto 3D objects was debuted in 1969, when Disneyland opened their Haunted Mansion ride, which featured singing busts. Head shots of the singers were filmed on 16mm film and then projected onto busts of their faces to make them appear animated. Another early example of projection mapping was in the 1967 TV movie Magical Mystery Tour during the Blue Jay Way scene, where images are projected onto George Harrison, including a cat's face and a headless male torso with the words \"Magical Mystical Boy\" written on its chest.\n\nThe next record of projection mapping is from 1980, when installation artist Michael Naimark filmed people interacting with objects in a living room and then projected it in the room, creating illusions as if the people interacting with the objects were really there. The first time the concept of projection mapping was investigated academically was at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in the late 1990s, where a team led by Ramesh Raskar worked on a project called \"Office of the Future\" to connect offices from different locations by projecting people into the office space as if they were really there. By 2001, more artists began using projection mapping in artwork, and groups such as Microsoft began experimenting with it as a means of technological advancement.\n\nAfter the object which will be projected on is chosen or created, software is used to map the corners of the video to the surfaces. First, one must choose the images or video to project. Then, place each video on to its designated surface. Alternatively, one may choose to map the entire scene in 3D and attempt to project and mask the image back onto its framework. The next step is defined as \"masking,\" which means using opacity templates to actually \"mask\" the exact shapes and positions of the different elements of the building or space of projection. In 3D Mapping, coordinates need to be defined for where the object is placed in relation to the projector, the XYZ orientation, position, and lens specification of the projector have to result to a determined virtual scene. One such tool to help achieve this end is BLAM! add-on for blender 3D's open source 3D animation suite. Adjustments are commonly needed and made by manually tweaking either the physical or virtual scene for best results. Large projectors with 20,000 lumens output or greater are used for large-scale projections such as on city skyscrapers. Otherwise, for smaller productions, smaller projectors with less output will work. A 2200 lumen projector is adequate for projections under indoor light or theatrical lighting in most cases. Video mapping software such as MadMapper, Qlab, Troixatronix's Isadora, FaçadeSignage, ArKaos MediaMaster and GrandVJ and VPT 6.0 are all downloadable for use in projects like these, though Adobe Photoshop, Adobe After Effects, Blender Blam!, and other packages can also be used by a creative artist. Also, extensible open-source software frameworks such as MPM (Multi-Projector-Mapper) are available among others. Projection mapping can be separated into four categories:\n\n\nProjection mapping first came to prominence through guerrilla advertising campaigns and video jockeys for electronic musicians. Large companies such as Nokia, Samsung, Unilever Pakistan, Pakistan Tobacco company, Bank Alfalah, Brighto Paints, Benson & Hedges, John Players Gold Leaf and BMW have since used video projections to create campaigns for their products in major cities across the world. These advertising campaigns commonly use mapping techniques to project scenes onto the sides of buildings. Projection mapping can also be interactive, as Nokia Ovi Maps did a project in which the projections would mimic people's movements. Projection mapping has been used at conferences as a means of decoration or immersing audience members in an experienced-based theme. This can be as elaborate as projecting onto a flat surface, or projecting onto an unusual object such as a car or a chair.The festival Fête des Lumières in Lyon, a festival to honour the Virgin Mary, has recently also started incorporating 3D mapping into their productions, creating the illusion of a giant pinball machine on the side of a building. Common techniques for these performances included both 3-D mapping techniques and 3D projection to create the illusion of depth, as well as motion such as crumbling buildings.\n\nThe use of projection mapping in TV and films is becoming more popular. For the sci-fi flick Oblivion, the directors used projection mapping to create an immersive environment. For a 2016 TV commercial, Audi used projection mapping to showcase the technology of the Audi Q7 model. The ad, titled Projection of Greatness, was filmed with no CGI and used only content that was caught live in camera. \n\nIn the electronic dance music (EDM) community, it is becoming increasingly common for DJs to accompany their music with synced visuals. Though normal projection screens are commonly used, some visual artists are beginning to create custom made, 3D installations to project onto. Many EDM artists employ projection mapping techniques at many of their shows. Artists who are solely visual also use projection mapping as a means of creative expression, believing that it can enhance existing creative mediums such as painting and drawing.\n\nArtists may use it as an avant garde form of expression as it is new technology that can turn their creative ideas into 3D projections, connecting with audiences in a new way. Video projections have appeared in urban centres such as New York City and London, where artists have used guerilla projections in public without any necessary approval. This way, artists can show their work in any location as anything and anywhere can be a canvas. Often people also use it as a means of activism; the group Occupy Wall Street has used it to project onto the Verizon Wireless building in New York City as a means to visually spread the word that Occupy Wall Street is still alive. The Japanese theatre play \"Mysteries of Yoshitsune I&II\" (2012-14) is notable for the first major use of projection mapping in Japanese theatre stage play.\n\nRecently, projection mapping has been used more and more frequently by Walt Disney Imagineering and Walt Disney Creative Entertainment in the Disney Parks. Examples of this include, but are not limited to, \"The Magic, the Memories and You\", \"Disney Dreams!\", \"Celebrate the Magic\", \"Once Upon a Time\", \"Disneyland Forever\", \"Halloween Screams\", \"Believe... In Holiday Magic\", \"Remember... Dreams Come True\", \"Happily Ever After\" and most recently Sunset Seasons Greetings at Disney's Hollywood Studios.\n\n"}
{"id": "666772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666772", "title": "Queen Mab", "text": "Queen Mab\n\nQueen Mab is a fairy referred to in William Shakespeare's play \"Romeo and Juliet\", where \"she is the fairies' midwife.\" In the play, she is a symbol for freedom and also becomes Romeo's psyche after he realizes that he is also a floating spirit. Later, she appears in other poetry and literature, and in various guises in drama and cinema. In the play, her activity is described in a famous speech by Mercutio written originally in prose and often adapted into iambic pentameter, in which she is described as a miniature creature who performs midnight pranks upon sleepers. Being driven by a team of atomies, she rides her chariot over their noses and \"delivers the fancies of sleeping men.\" She is also described as a midwife to help sleepers \"give birth\" to their dreams. She may be a figure borrowed from folklore, and though she is often associated with the Irish Medb in popular culture, and has been suggested by historian Thomas Keightley to be from \"Habundia\", a more likely origin for her name would be from Mabel and the Middle English derivative \"Mabily\" (as used by Chaucer) all from the Latin \"amabilis\" (\"lovable\").\n\n\"O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you. <br>\nShe is the fairies' midwife, and she comes <br>\nIn shape no bigger than an agate-stone <br>\nOn the fore-finger of an alderman, <br>\nDrawn with a team of little atomies <br>\nAthwart men's noses as they lies asleep; <br>\nHer wagon-spokes made of long spinners' legs,<br>\nThe cover of the wings of grasshoppers, <br>\nThe traces of the smallest spider's web, <br>\nThe collars of the moonshine's wat'ry beams, <br>\nHer whip of cricket's bone; the lash of film; <br>\nHer waggoner a small grey-coated gnat, <br>\nNot half so big as a round little worm <br>\nPricked from the lazy finger of a maid:<br>\nHer chariot is an empty hazelnut <br>\nMade by the joiner squirrel or old grub,<br>\nTime out o’ mind the fairies’ coachmakers. <br>\nAnd in this state she gallops night by night <br>\nThrough lovers’ brains, and then they dream of love;<br>\nO’er courtiers’ knees, that dream on court'sies straight,<br>\nO’er lawyers’ fingers, who straight dream on fees,<br>\nO’er ladies' lips, who straight on kisses dream, <br>\nWhich oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues, <br>\nBecause their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are: <br>\nSometime she gallops o’er a courtier's nose, <br>\nAnd then dreams he of smelling out a suit; <br>\nAnd sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail <br>\nTickling a parson's nose as a’ lies asleep, <br>\nThen dreams, he of another benefice: <br>\nSometime she driveth o’er a soldier's neck,<br>\nAnd then dreams he of cutting foreign throats, <br>\nOf breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades, <br>\nOf healths five-fathom deep; and then anon <br>\nDrums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,<br>\nAnd being thus frighted swears a prayer or two<br>\nAnd sleeps again. This is that very Mab <br>\nThat plaits the manes of horses in the night,<br>\nAnd bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs, <br>\nWhich once untangled, much misfortune bodes: <br>\nThis is the hag, when maids lie on their backs, <br>\nThat presses them and learns them first to bear, <br>\nMaking them women of good carriage: <br>\nThis is she—\"\n\n— Mercutio in \"Romeo and Juliet\", Act I, scene IV\nAfter her literary debut (as far as we can tell by examining the surviving literature) in \"Romeo and Juliet\", she appears in works of seventeenth-century poetry, notably Ben Jonson's \"The Entertainment at Althorp\" and Michael Drayton's \"Nymphidia\". In Poole's work \"Parnassus\", Mab is described as the Queen of the Fairies and consort to Oberon, Emperor of the Fairies.\n\n\"Queen Mab\" is a 1750 pantomime by actor Henry Woodward.\n\n\"Queen Mab: A Philosophical Poem\" (1813) is the title of the first large poetic work written by the famous English Romantic poet, Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792–1822).\n\nHerman Melville's epic American novel \"Moby Dick\" (1851) includes a chapter called \"Queen Mab\". The 31st chapter of Melville's work is entitled such because it describes a dream by Captain Ahab's second mate, Stubb.\n\nIn J. M. Barrie's \"The Little White Bird\" (1902) Queen Mab lives in Kensington Gardens and grants Peter Pan – who has learned he is a boy, and thus can no longer fly – his wish to fly again.\n\nAmerican philosopher George Santayana wrote a short piece entitled \"Queen Mab\" which appeared in his 1922 book \"Soliloquies in England and Later Soliloquies\". This particular soliloquy considers English literature as an indirect form of self-expression in which the English writer \"will dream of what Queen Mab makes other people dream\" rather than revealing him or herself.\n\nIn Jim Butcher's \"The Dresden Files\" series, Queen Mab of The Winter Court (also known as 'The Queen of Air and Darkness') is an important recurring character with mysterious motives. Ruler of the Unseelie Sidhe, Mab lives in a dark castle of ice located in the fey worlds of The Nevernever and is generally considered to be incredibly cruel, cold, and a maker of unbreakable pacts.\n\nQueen Mab is the queen of the Unseelie Court in Julie Kagawa's \"The Iron Fey\" series.\n\nQueen Mab is one of the three ancient Fae queens, sister to Maeve and Mora, in Sarah J. Maas's \"Throne of Glass\" series.\n\nQueen Mab is one of the primary villains in the late story arcs of the \"Hellboy\" comic book series.\n\nIn Stephen and Owen King’s book \"Sleeping Beauties\", under the alias Evie Black, the main antagonist of the book suggests she is the one being addressed in the Queen Mab speech by Mercutio in \"Romeo and Juliet\".\n\nIn Andrzej Sapkowski's short story \"Złote popołudnie\" (\"The Golden Afternoon\") which is postmodern retelling of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland the Queen of Hearts is revealed to be really Queen Mab.\n\nIn the first episode of season four of HBO's original series \"True Blood\", Queen Mab (portrayed by Rebecca Wisocky) is the Queen of Faerie who centuries ago ordered the fae to retreat to the Plane of Faerie in the wake of vampire aggression. Under her orders, humans with fae blood (including Sookie Stackhouse) are being drawn into Faerie as well. When Sookie rebels against her and escapes back to the mortal realm, Queen Mab seals the Faerie portals for good, trapping the half-fae with her and a handful of true fae in Bon Temps.\n\nAlthough not connected with him in the original source material, Queen Mab has been featured in media series featuring Merlin. She is portrayed by Miranda Richardson in the 1998 TV miniseries \"Merlin\", serving as prominent antagonist to the title character; she is the dark twin to the Lady of the Lake. In an episode of \"\" from the same year, she is an evil enchantress who has corrupted Arthur; Merlin sends the pair back in time to learn a lesson in humility from Hercules. The 2008 TV series \"Merlin\" features Queen Mab as a character in an episode of the show's fifth season, which portrays her as a diminutive green fairy.\n\nThe composer Hector Berlioz wrote a spectacular “Queen Mab” scherzo in his Romeo et Juliette symphony (1839). Hugh Macdonald describes this piece as \"Berlioz's supreme exercise in light orchestral texture, a brilliant, gossamer fabric, prestissimo and pianissimo almost without pause... The pace and fascination of the movement are irresistible; it is some of the most ethereally brilliant music ever penned.\"\n\nThe song by the British rock band Queen \"The Fairy Feller's Master-Stroke\", based on a painting by Richard Dadd and included in the album Queen II, mentions Queen Mab and many other characters such as Oberon and Titania.\n\nSongwriter Becca Stevens set the first half of the text to music on her 2017 album \"Regina\".\n\nQueen Mab is the name of a fae (a faerie) painted by American artist Amy Brown in 1999. Queen Mab is a Fall faerie, in a flowing brown and black dress with a centerpiece of roses on a white background. In her right hand she holds a tree branch staff adorned with pearls, in her left hand, a \"magic glowing orb\" - Amy Brown; which she further says in a letter to me: \"I was always painting fae holding magic orbs back then\".\n"}
{"id": "13462164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13462164", "title": "Royal entry", "text": "Royal entry\n\nThe Royal Entry, also known by various names, including Triumphal Entry, Joyous Entry, consisted of the ceremonies and festivities accompanying a formal entry by a ruler or his representative into a city in the Middle Ages and Early Modern Period in Europe. The entry centred on a procession carrying the entering prince into the city, where he was greeted and paid appropriate homage by the civic authorities. A feast and other celebrations would follow.\n\nThe Entry began as a gesture of loyalty and fealty by a city to the ruler, with its origins in the \"adventus\" celebrated for Roman emperors, which were formal entries far more frequent than triumphs. The first visit by a new ruler was normally the occasion, or the first visit with a new spouse. For the capital they often merged with the Coronation festivities, and for provincial cities they replaced it, sometimes as part of a Royal Progress, or tour of major cities in a realm. (See also Itinerant court, about this.)\n\nFrom the late Middle Ages entries became the occasion for increasingly lavish displays of pageantry and propaganda. The devising of the iconography, aside from highly conventional patterns into which it quickly settled, was managed with scrupulous care on the part of the welcoming city by municipal leaders in collaboration with the chapter of the cathedral, the university, or hired specialists. Often the greatest artists, writers and composers of the period were involved in the creation of temporary decorations, of which little record now survives, at least from the early period.\n\nThe contemporary account from Galbert of Bruges of the unadorned \"Joyous Advent\" of a newly installed Count of Flanders into \"his\" city of Bruges, in April 1127, shows that in the initial stage, undisguised by fawning and triumphalist imagery that came to disguise it, an Entry was similar to a parley, a formal truce between the rival powers of territorial magnate and walled city, in which reiteration of the city's \"liberties\" in the medieval sense, that is its rights and prerogatives, were set out in clear terms and legitimated by the presence of saintly relics:\n\"On April 5... at twilight, the king with the newly elected Count William, marquis of Flanders, came into our town at Bruges. The canons of Saint Donatian had come forth to meet them, bearing relics of the saints and welcoming the king and new count joyfully in a solemn procession worthy of a king. On April 6... the king and count assembled with their knights and ours, with the citizens and many Flemings in the usual field where reliquaries and relics of the saints had been collected. And when silence had been called for, the charter of the liberty of the church and of the privileges of Saint Donatian was read aloud before all... There was also read the little charter of agreement between the count and our citizens... Binding themselves to accept this condition, the king and count took an oath on the relics of saints in the hearing of the clergy and people\".\n\nThe procession of a new Pope to Rome was known as a \"possesso\". A ruler with a new spouse would also receive an Entry. The entry of Queen Isabeau of Bavaria into Paris in 1389 was described by the chronicler Froissart. The Entries of Charles IX of France and his Habsburg queen, Elizabeth of Austria, into Paris, March 1571, had been scheduled for Charles alone in 1561, for the \"entrate\" were typically celebrated towards the beginning of a reign, but the French Wars of Religion had made such festivities inappropriate, until the peace that followed the Peace of Saint-Germain-en-Laye signed in August 1570.\n\nUntil the mid-14th century, the occasions were relatively simple. The city authorities waited for the prince and his party outside the city walls, and after handing over a ceremonial key with a \"loyal address\" or speech, and perhaps stopping to admire \"tableaux vivants\" such as those that were performed at the entry into Paris of Queen Isabeau of Bavaria, described in detail by the chronicler Froissart, conducted him through the streets which were transformed with colour, with houses on the route hanging tapestries and embroideries or carpets or bolts of cloth from their windows, and with most of the population lining the route. At Valladolid in 1509\n\nHeraldic displays were ubiquitous: at Valladolid in 1509, the bulls in the fields outside the city were caparisoned with cloths painted with the royal arms and hung with bells. Along the route the procession would repeatedly halt to admire the set-pieces embellished with mottoes and pictured and living allegories, accompanied by declamations and the blare of trumpets and volleys of artillery. The procession would include members of the three Estates, with the nobility and gentry of the surrounding area, and the clergy and guilds of the city processing behind the prince. From the mid-14th century the guild members often wore special uniform clothes, each guild choosing a bright colour; in Tournai in 1464 three hundred men wore large embroidered silk fleur de lys (the royal badge) on their chests and backs, at their own expense. The prince reciprocated by confirming, and sometimes extending, the customary privileges of the city or a local area of which it was the capital. Usually the prince also visited the cathedral to be received by the bishop and confirm the privileges of the cathedral chapter also. There a \"Te Deum\" would be customary, and music written for the occasion would be performed.\n\nDuring the 14th century, as courtly culture, with the court of Burgundy in the lead, began to stage elaborate dramas re-enacting battles or legends as entertainment during feasts, the cities began to include in entry ceremonies small staged pageant \"tableaux\", usually organised by the guilds (and any communities of foreign merchants resident), and drawing on their growing experience of medieval theatre and pageantry. Initially these were on religious themes, but \"gradually these tableaux developed, through the fifteenth and into the sixteenth century, into a repertory of archways and street-theatres which presented variants of a remarkably consistent visual and iconographical vocabulary.\" Fortune with her wheel, Fame and Time, the seven Virtues, both Christian and Classical, and the Nine Worthies and other Classical, Biblical and local heroes, among whose number the honoree was now to be counted. As the tradition developed, the themes became more specific, firstly stressing the legitimacy of the prince, and his claim by descent, then setting before him the princely virtues and their rewards, which especially included the benefits to him of encouraging prosperous cities and provinces.\n\nThe procession might pause for allegorical figures to address it, or pass beside a genealogical tree or under a temporary classical-style triumphal arch with either painted figures or posed actors perching on it, standing in for statuary in the case of arches. Still more elaborate entertainments began to be staged during or after the civic feast, and by the mid-17th century these could be as spectacular as the staged naval battles, masques, operas and ballets that courts staged for themselves. The court now often had a major role in both designing and financing entries, which increasingly devoted themselves to the glorification of the absolute monarch as hero, and left the old emphasis on his obligations behind; \"any lingering possibilities of its use as a vehicle for dialogue with the middle classes vanished\". At the third \"triumph\" at Valladolid in 1509, a lion holding the city's coat-of-arms shattered at the King's arrival, revealing the royal arms: the significance could not have been lost, even on those unable to hear the accompanying declamation.\n\nDuring the 16th century, at dates differing widely by location, the tableau vivant was phased out and mostly replaced by painted or sculpted images, although many elements of street-theatre persisted, and small masques or other displays became incorporated into the programmes. The entry in 1514 of Mary Tudor to Paris, as Louis XII's new Queen, was the first French entry to have a single organizer; ten years before Anne of Brittany's entry had been \"largely medieval\", with five stops for mystery plays in the streets.\n\nDuring the Hundred Years' War, the entry of the ten-year-old Henry VI of England, to be crowned king of France in Paris, 2 December 1431, was marked with great pomp and heraldic propaganda. Outside the city he was welcomed by the mayor in a blue velvet \"houppelande\", his retinue in violet with scarlet caps, and representatives of the Parlement de Paris in red trimmed with fur. At the porte Saint-Denis the royal party were greeted with a grand achievement of the French arms that Henry claimed, gold fleurs de lis on an azure ground. The king was offered large red hearts, from which doves were released, and a rain of flowers pelted the procession. At the symbolic gateway, a canopy of estate embroidered with more gold lilies was erected over the young king, who was carried in a litter supported on six lances carried by men dressed in blue. Through the city there were welcoming pageants and allegorical performances: before the Church of the Innocents, a forest was erected, through which a captured stag was released and \"hunted\".\n\nEducated folk of the Middle Ages had close at hand an example of an allegorical series of entries at a wedding, in the frame story that opens Martianus Capella's encyclopedic introduction to all one needed to know of the arts, \"On the Wedding of Philology and Mercury and of the Seven Liberal Arts.\" With the revival of Classical learning, Italian entries became influenced by literary descriptions of the Roman triumph. Livy's account was supplemented by detailed descriptions in Suetonius and Cassius Dio of Nero's Greek Triumph, and in Josephus of the Triumph of Titus.\n\nMore recherché sources were brought to bear; Aulus Gellius' \"Noctes Atticae\" furnished a detail that became part of the conventional symbolism: coronation with seven crowns. Boccaccio's long poem \"Amorosa visione\" (1342–43), following the schema of a triumph, offered a parade of famous personages, both historical and legendary, that may have provided a model for Petrarch, who elaborated upon Livy in an account of the triumph of Scipio Africanus and in his poem \"I Trionfi\". Castruccio Castracani entered Lucca in 1326 riding in a chariot, with prisoners driven before him. Alfonso V of Aragon entered Naples in 1443 seated on a triumphal car under a baldachin, as is shown by a surviving bas-relief on the earliest, and still perhaps the most beautiful, permanent post-classical Triumphal arch, which he built the same year. In Italian, specific meanings developed for \"trionfo\" as both the whole procession, and a particular car or cart decorated with a display or tableau; although these usages did not spread exactly to other languages, they lie behind terms such as \"triumphal entry\" and \"triumphal procession\".\n\nThe emphasis began to shift from the displays as static tableaux that were passed by a procession in festive but normal contemporary dress, to the displays' being incorporated in the procession itself, a feature also of the religious medieval pageant; the tableaux were mounted on \"carri\", the precursors of the float, and were now often accompanied by a costumed throng. The carnival parades of Florence that were refined to a high pitch in the late quattrocento set a high standard; they were not without a propaganda element at times, as in the lavish parades of Carnival 1513, following the not-universally welcomed return of the Medici the previous year; the theme of one pageant, more direct than subtle: \"The Return of the Golden Age\". With the French invasions of Italy from 1494, this form of entry spread north. Cardinal Bibbiena reported in a letter of 1520 that the Duke of Suffolk had sent emissaries to Italy to buy horses and bring back to Henry VIII of England men who knew how to make festal decorations in the latest Italian manner.\nCharles V was indulged in a series of Imperial \"entrate\" in Italian cities during the Habsburg consolidation after the Sack of Rome, notably in Genoa, where Charles and his heir Philip made no less than five triumphal entries. Impressive occasions like Charles V's Royal Entry into Messina in 1535 have left few concrete survivals, but representations were still being painted on Sicilian wedding-carts in the 19th century.\n\nAfter Mantegna's great mural of the Triumphs of Caesar rapidly became known throughout Europe in numerous versions in print form, this became the standard source, from which details were frequently borrowed, not least by Habsburg rulers, who especially claimed the Imperial legacy of Rome. Although Mantegna's elephants were difficult to copy, chained captives, real or acting the part, were not, and elaborate triumphal carts, often pulled by \"unicorns\" might replace the earlier canopy held over the prince on horseback. The woodcuts and text of the \"Hypnerotomachia Poliphili\" of 1499 were another well-known source, and Petrarch's \"I Trionfi\" was printed in many illustrated editions; both were works of mythological allegory, with no obvious political content. Entries became displays of conspicuous learning, often with lengthy Latin addresses, and the entertainments became infused with matter from the abstruse worlds of Renaissance emblems and hermeticism, to which they were very well suited. In the world of Renaissance Neo-Platonism, the assertion and acting-out of the glory and power of the prince might actually bring it about.\n\nA precocious example of the Entrata with a consistent and unified allegorical theme was the Entry of Medici pope Leo X into Florence, November 1515. All the city's artistic resources were drawn upon to create this exemplary Entry, to a planned programme perhaps devised by the historian Jacopo Nardi, as Vasari suggested; the Seven Virtues represented by seven triumphal arches at stations along the route, the seventh applied as a temporary façade to the Duomo, Santa Maria del Fiore, which still lacked a permanent one.\n\nApart from the permanent theme of the reciprocal bonds uniting ruler and ruled, in times of political tension the political messages in Entries became more pointed and emphatic. A disputed succession would produce a greater stress on the theme of legitimacy. After the Reformation, tension became a permanent condition, and most Entries contained a sectarian element. After about 1540 French entries and Habsburg ones in the Low Countries were especially freighted with implication, as the rulers' attempts to suppress Protestantism brought Protestant and Catholic populations alike to the edge of ruin. But initially this increased the scale of displays, whose message was now carefully controlled by the court.\nThis transformation happened much earlier in Italy than in the North, and a succession of entries for Spanish Viceroys to the blockaded city of Antwerp, once the richest in Northern Europe and now in steep decline, were \"used by the city fathers to combine increasingly eulogistic celebrations of their Habsburg rulers with tableaux to remind them of the commercial ruin over which they presided.\" The \"Pompa Introitus\" of the Cardinal-Infante Ferdinand into Antwerp in 1635, devised by Gaspar Gevartius and carried out under the direction of Rubens, was made unmistakably pointed, and included a representation of the god of commerce, Mercury, flying away, as a lamenting figure representing Antwerp points at him and looks imploringly out at the Viceroy, whilst beside her lie a sleeping sailor and a river god, representing the wrecked trade of the city from the blockading of the river Scheldt. Eventually the Viceroy managed to obtain the lifting of the ban on trade with the Indies which the entry had represented as Antwerp's only hope of escaping ruin; but by then the Spanish had agreed to the permanent blockade of the river.\nIn 1638, the occasion of the French queen mother Marie de Medici's triumphal entry into Amsterdam lent \"de facto\" international recognition of the newly formed Dutch Republic, though she actually traveled to the Netherlands as an exile. Spectacular displays and water pageants took place in the city's harbor; a procession was led by two mounted trumpeters; a large temporary structure erected on an artificial island in the Amstel River was built especially for the festival. This building was designed to display a series of dramatic tableaux in tribute to her once she set foot on the floating island and entered its pavilion. The distinguished poet and classicist Caspar Barlaeus wrote the official descriptive booklet, \"Medicea Hospes, sive descriptio publicae gratulationis, qua ... Mariam de Medicis, excepit senatus populusque Amstelodamensis\". Published by Willem Blaeu, it includes two large folding engraved views of the ceremonies.\n\nAlthough the essence of an entry was that it was supposed to be a peaceful, festive occasion, very different from the taking of a town by assault, several entries actually followed military action by the town against their ruler, and were very tense affairs. In 1507 the population of Genoa revolted against the French who had conquered them in 1499, and restored their Republic. Louis XII of France defeated the Genoan army outside the city, which then agreed a capitulation, including an entry which was followed by the execution of the Doge and other leaders of the revolt. The gestural content was rather different from a peaceful entry; Louis entered in full armour, holding a naked sword, which he struck against the portal as he entered the city, saying \"Proud Genoa! I have won you with my sword in my hand\".\n\nCharles V entered Rome in splendour less than three years after his army had sacked the city. The famously troublesome citizens of Ghent revolted against Philip the Good in 1453 and Charles V in 1539, after which Charles arrived with a large army and was greeted with an entry. A few weeks later he dictated the programme of a deliberately humiliating anti-festival, with the burghers coming barefoot with nooses round their necks to beg forgiveness from him which, after imposing a huge fine, he consented to do. The entries of Charles and his son Philip in 1549 were followed the next year by a ferocious anti-Protestant edict that began the repression that led to the Revolt of the Netherlands, in the course of which Antwerp was to suffer a terrible sack in 1576 and a long siege in 1584–85, which finally ended all prosperity in the city.\n\nDuring the 17th century the scale of entries began to decline. There was a clear trend, led from Medici Florence, to transfer festivities involving the monarch into the private world of the court. The \"intermezzi\" developed in Florence, the \"ballet de cour\" that spread from Paris, the English masque, and even elaborate equestrian ballets all increased as entries declined. In 1628, when Marie de' Medici commissioned from Rubens a \"Triumphal Entry of Henri IV into Paris\", it was for a suite of grand decorations for her own palace, the Luxembourg; Rubens did not recreate historic details of the 1594 Royal Entry, but overleapt them to render the allegory itself (\"illustration\").\n\nThe cultural atmosphere of Protestantism was less favourable to the Royal Entry. In the new Dutch Republic entries ceased altogether. In England, part of the Accession Day festivities in 1588, following the defeat of the Spanish Armada were especially joyous and solemn. Delaying the event a week to 24 November, Elizabeth rode in triumph, \"imitating the ancient Romans\" from her palace of Whitehall in the city of Westminster to enter the city of London at Temple Bar. She rode in a chariot\n\"made with four pillars behind, to have a canopie, on the top whereof was made a crowne imperiall, and two lower pillars before. whereon stood a lyon and a dragon, supporters of the armes of England, drawn by two white horses\"\n\nThe Earl of Essex followed the triumphal car, leading the caparisoned and riderless horse of estate, followed by the ladies of honour. The windows of houses along the procession route up the Strand were hung with blue cloth. At Temple Bar, the official gate to the City, there was music and the Lord Mayor handed over the mace and received it again. In a \"closet\" constructed for the occasion, the Queen heard a festive service celebrated by fifty clergymen at St. Paul's Cathedral and returned in a torchlit procession in the evening.\n\nNevertheless, the entry of James I into London in 1604 was the last until the Restoration of his grandson in 1660, after the English Civil War. The court of Charles I intensified the scale of private masques and other entertainments, but the cities, increasingly at odds with the monarchy, would no longer play along. The Duchy of Lorraine, a great centre of all festivities, was swallowed up in the Thirty Years War, which left much of Northern and Central Europe in no mood or condition for celebrations on the old scale. In France the concentration of power in royal hands, begun by Richelieu, left city elites distrustful of the monarchy, and once Louis XIV succeeded to the throne, royal progresses stopped completely for over fifty years; in their place Louis staged his elaborate court fêtes, redolent of cultural propaganda, which were memorialised in sumptupously illustrated volumes that the \"Cabinet du Roi\" placed in all the right hands.\n\nChanges in the intellectual climate meant the old allegories no longer resonated with the population. The assassinations of both Henry III and Henry IV of France, of William the Silent and other prominent figures, and the spread of guns, made rulers more cautious about appearing in slow-moving processions planned and publicised long in advance; at grand occasions for fireworks and illuminations, rulers now characteristically did no more than show themselves at a ceremonial window or balcony. The visit of Louis XVI to inspect the naval harbour works at Cherbourg in 1786 seems, amazingly, to have been the first French entry of a King designed as a public event since the early years of Louis XIV well over a century before. Though considered a great success, this was certainly too little and too late to avoid the catastrophe awaiting the French monarchy.\n\nIdeologues of the French Revolution took the semi-private fête of the former court and made it public once more, in events like the \"Fête de la Raison\". Under Napoleon, the Treaty of Tolentino (1797) requisitioned from the Papacy a mass of works of art, including most of the famous sculptures of Roman antiquity in the Vatican. A Joyous Entry under the name of a fête was arranged for the arrival of the cultural loot in Paris, the carefully prepared \"Fête de la Liberté\" of 1798. With the increased sense of public security of the 19th century, Entries became grander again, on such occasions as the Visit of King George IV to Scotland, where medieval revivalism makes its first appearance, along with much Highland romanticism, Queen Victoria's visits to Dublin and elsewhere, or the three Delhi Durbars. On these occasions, though ceremonial acts remained meaningful, overt allegories never regained the old prominence, and the decorations receded into festive, but simply decorative affairs of flags, flowers and bunting, the last remnant of the medieval show of rich textiles along the processional route.\n\nToday, though many parades and processions have quite separate, independent origins, civic or republican equivalents of the Entry continue. They include Victory parades, New York's traditional ticker-tape parades and the Lord Mayor's Show in London, dating back to 1215 and still preserving the Renaissance car, or float model. It is not frivolous to add that the specific occasion of the contemporary American Thanksgiving Day Parade or the Santa Claus parade is the triumphal entry into the city of Santa Claus in his sleigh.\n\nTo the occasional irritation of modern art historians, many of the great artists of the time spent a good deal of time on the ephemeral decorations for entries and other festivities, including Jan van Eyck, Leonardo da Vinci, Albrecht Dürer, Holbein, Andrea del Sarto, Perino del Vaga, Polidoro da Caravaggio, Tintoretto, Veronese and Rubens. For some court artists, such as Inigo Jones or Jacques Bellange, it seems to have been their major occupation, and both Giulio Romano and Giorgio Vasari were very heavily engaged in such work. Composers from Lassus and Monteverdi to John Dowland, and writers such as Tasso, Ronsard, Ben Jonson and Dryden also contributed. Shakespeare does not seem to have written anything for such an occasion, but with Jonson he was one of a group of twenty gentlemen processing in \"The Magnificent Entertainment\", as the published record called the first entry of James I of England into London.\n\nArt historians also detect the influence of the tableau in many paintings, especially in the late Middle Ages, before artists had trained themselves to be able to develop new compositions readily. In the Renaissance, artists were often imported from other cities to help with, or supervise, the works, and entries probably helped the dissemination of styles.\n\nA festival book is an account of festivities such as entries, of which there are many hundreds, often surviving in very few copies. Originally manuscripts, often illustrated, compiled for prince or city, with the arrival of print they were frequently published, varying in form from short pamphlets describing the order of events, and perhaps recording speeches, to lavish books illustrated with woodcuts or engravings showing the various tableaux, often including a fold-out panorama of the procession, curling to and fro across the page. The pamphlets were ephemera themselves; a printed description of two leaves describing the entry of Ferdinand into Valladolid, 1513, survives in a single copy (at Harvard) because it was bound with another text. A lost description of the ceremonious reception given by Louis XII to Ferdinand at Savona (June 1507) is only known from a purchase receipt of Ferdinand Columbus.\n\nThese \"livrets\" are not always to be trusted as literal records; some were compiled beforehand from the plans, and others after the event from fading memories. The authors or artists engaged in producing the books had by no means always seen the entry themselves. Roy Strong finds that they are \"an idealization of an event, often quite distant from its reality as experienced by the average onlooker. One of the objects of such publications was to reinforce by means of word and image the central ideas that motivated those who conceived the programme.\" One Habsburg entry was all but called off because of torrential rain, but the book shows it as it should have been. Thomas Dekker, the playwright and author of the book on \"The Magnificent Entertainment\" for James I is refreshingly frank:\n\nThe Holy Roman Emperor, Maximilian I, went a step further, creating enormous virtual triumphs that existed solely in the form of print. The \"Triumphs of Maximilian\" (begun in 1512 and unfinished at Maximilian's death in 1519) contains over 130 large woodcuts by Dürer and other artists, showing a huge procession (still in open country) culminating in the Emperor himself, mounted on a huge car. \"The Triumphal Arch\" (1515), the largest print ever made, at 3.57 x 2.95 metres when the 192 sheets are assembled, was produced in an edition of seven hundred copies for distribution to friendly cities and princes. It was intended to be hand-coloured and then pasted to a wall. Traditional tableau themes, including a large genealogy, and many figures of Virtues, are complemented by scenes of Maximilian's life and military victories. Maximilian was wary of entries in person, having been locked up by his loyal subjects in Bruges in 1488 for eleven weeks, until he could pay the bills from his stay.\n\nAn early meeting between the festival book with travel literature is the account of the visit in 1530 of the future Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor, then King of Hungary and Bohemia to Constantinople.\n\nIn Habsburg territories in the New World, the \"entradas\" of the Viceroy of Mexico were celebrated at his landing at Veracruz and at Mexico City; on the way, the ceremonial entry at the \"second city\", Puebla de los Ángeles, which were presented as late as 1696, served to promote an elite that self-identified strongly with Spain, and incurred expenses, which were borrowed from the ecclesiastic \"cabildo\", that exceeded the annual income of the city. Printed commemorative pamphlets spelled out in detail the elaborately artificial allegories and hieroglyphic emblems of the Entry, often drawn from astrology, in which the Viceroy would illuminate the city as the sun. In the 18th century, the Bourbon transformation of \"entrées\" into semi-private \"fêtes\" extended to Spanish Mexico: \"While the event continued to be extravagant under Bourbon rule, it became more privatized and took place to a larger degree indoors, losing its street theater flavor and urban processional character.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35427471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35427471", "title": "Samoo Architects &amp; Engineers", "text": "Samoo Architects &amp; Engineers\n\nSamoo Architects & Engineers (SAMOO), headquartered in Seoul, South Korea, is a multinational professional services firm which provides architectural design, engineering, interior design, urban design, sustainable design, construction management, and \nbuilding information modeling services. Currently the firm has over 760 employees based in offices located in Seoul, South Korea, New York, NY, U.S.A., Abu Dhabi, UAE, Doha, Qatar, Shanghai, China, Hanoi, Vietnam, Austin, TX, U.S.A.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12896747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12896747", "title": "Silpathorn Award", "text": "Silpathorn Award\n\nThe Silpathorn Award, , is an honour for living Thai contemporary artists presented annually by the Office of Contemporary Art and Culture, Ministry of Culture of Thailand. The awards were established in 2004 to promote Thai contemporary artists who are considered to be in their mid-career and who have already made notable contributions to Thai fine arts and culture.\n\nArtists are honored in the fields of visual arts, literature, music, film, performing arts, design and architecture.\n\nEducation and promotion of fine arts in the Kingdom of Thailand was under the auspices of the Department of Fine Arts of the Ministry of Palace Affairs. In 1943, the department's schools became Silpakorn University, founded by Silpa Bhirasri, an Italian sculptor who was named Corrado Feroci, but became a Thai citizen during World War II and is considered the father of fine arts in Thailand.\nOther offices promoting fine arts included the Office of the National Culture Commission and the Religious Affairs Department.\n\nIn 1985, the Office of the National Culture Commission established the Thailand National Artist designation, which is conferred on notable Thai artists as a lifetime achievement award.\n\nThe Office of Contemporary Art and Culture (OCAC), under the Ministry of Culture, was formed in 2001 and was tasked with supporting, and promoting contemporary art and culture. While the National Artist programme has been generally aimed at veteran artists, especially those in the areas of Thai traditional arts, the OCAC recognised that younger artists needed support, promotion and recognition as well. In 2004, the Silpathorn Award was created, with honorees in the fields of visual art, literature, music, film and performing arts. In 2008, an award for the field of design was added.\n\nSilpathorn Award honorees must meet the following qualifications:\n\nIn 2008, a Distinguished (\"Kitikhun\") category was created for senior artists over 50 years of age who, because of controversy or unconventional works, would likely never be considered for the more conservative Thailand National Artist honor. At first this category was known in English as the \"Honorary\" category, but the translation was changed to \"Distinguished\" at the time the awards were actually given. This is because it was felt that in English an \"honorary\" award might be considered to be less \"real\" whereas the intent of the committee was to create a senior grade of the award.\n\nSilpathorn in Thai language is a combination of two words: \"Silpa\", meaning \"Art\", and \"Thorn\" (or \"Torn\"), meaning \"the Upholder\", thus Silpathorn means \"Upholder of Art\".\n\nThe Silpathorn Award is in the form of a brooch, modeled on the emblem of the Office of Contemporary Art and Culture, and made of white and yellow gold and decorated with diamonds and emeralds. There is also a cash prize, which was 100,000 baht.\n\nThe Distinguished Silpathorn Award was created in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24633759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24633759", "title": "Sirena chilota", "text": "Sirena chilota\n\nLa Sirena chilota is an aquatic creature belonging to the Chilote mythology. Perhaps its origin is due to binding of the myths of the Sumpall of the Mapuche mythology and the Mermaid of European mythology. Like to the mermaids, the siren chilota is characterized by a body half fish and half woman, with blond hair and golden scales; and her human side would look like a very beautiful teen. She would be the youngest daughter of Millalobo (king of sea, in chilote mythology) and the human Huenchula. Commissioned by her father, she has the task of caring for all fish. Also helps her siblings (the Pincoya and Pincoy) to carry the bodies of drowned sailors, toward the Caleuche, for the purpose of reviving the sailors and to be happy. Sirena Chilota have very large flukes and strong tails so they can swim long distances while carrying victims of tragedies. It is also said that a Sirena Chilota's tears are very delicate and, if used in a spell, is very powerful.\n\n"}
{"id": "52548686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52548686", "title": "Société du Jing-lar", "text": "Société du Jing-lar\n\nThe Société du Jing-lar, or Jing-lar Club, was a club of Japonists founded by Philippe Burty in Paris in 1867.\n\n"}
{"id": "52562096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52562096", "title": "St Mary Magdalene (Piero di Cosimo)", "text": "St Mary Magdalene (Piero di Cosimo)\n\nSt Mary Magdalene Reading is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Piero di Cosimo. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Antica of Palazzo Barberini, Rome. \n\nThe work depicts Mary Magdalene at a window-like table, reading a bible. On the shelf is a bottle of unguent. She is dressed in a contemporary multicolor gown and cape; she is distinguished by her long curled hair draping over her shoulders. She wears a ring of pearls in her hair. Around her hair a filigree of a halo. On the sill is the painter's signature. The use of shadows to give dimension to the face, and the settled pose of the Magdalen, identify the work as emerging from Piero di Cosimo's late works, influence by Leonardo da Vinci.\n"}
{"id": "18305454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18305454", "title": "São João National Theatre", "text": "São João National Theatre\n\nThe São João Theatre (), commonly referred to as the \"São João National Theatre\" is a Portuguese theatre and concert venue in civil parish of Cedofeita, Santo Ildefonso, Sé, Miragaia, São Nicolau e Vitória, in the municipality of Porto, in northern Portugal.\n\nThe primitive theatre was constructed at the end of the 18th century (1796) by Italian Vicente Mazzoneschi, and inaugurated on 13 May 1798, as the \"Teatro do Príncipe\" (\"Prince's Theatre\"). It was named in honour of the prince-regent John VI, who later became King. The construction firm of Francisco de Almada Mendonça was charged with the project, and produced a four-story building with its principal facade decorated with the royal coat-of-arms under an inscription.\n\nBut, on 11 April 1908, there was a fire, destroying the theatre interior, and a new structure was built on its former site. Before its destruction, the theatre had a markedly horseshoe-shaped plan. Its rounded ceiling was painted by Joaquim Rafael and had in 1856 received a new painting by Paulo Pizzi. The building included four rows of booths, with the booth for the royal family located centrally on the second floor. The large atrium, and the corridors large supported by access from large staircases. Along the second floor was a magnificent concert hall. Generally, the theatre had excellent acoustics. The stage wall was painted by Sequeira, but was later replaced in 1825 by paintings contracted to the Spaniard João Rodrigues, and later, Palucci. Until 1838, the theatre was lit by tallow candles, and later by similar candles lit by oil.\n\nOn 11 April 1908, the Civil Governor nominated a commission to promote the construction of a new theatre. \n\nA competition opened on October 8, presided by engineer Basílio Alberto de Sousa Pinto, Xavier Esteves, Casimiro Jerónimo de Faria, architect José Marques da Silva and the director of public works, Isidro de Campos, whom immediately denounced the conditions of the tender. A new competition was announced a week later, based on slight alterations to the original provisions. Preliminary project proposals were accepted on 22 February 1910. It was Marques da Silva who obtained the first prize and João de Moura Coutinho de Almeida d'Eça, the runner-up. Before the competition was held, the winning project was designated to Moura Coutinho, then director of the \"Direcção das Obras Públicas\" (\"Directorate of Public Works\") in Braga. The winning project was approved on 6 May, during a municipal session, with the work awarded to the company Soconstroi. \n\nWork began in 1911 under the direction of Porto architect José Marques da Silva. The inner, horseshoe-shaped concert hall included a ceiling painted by the artists José de Brito and Acácio Lino, while the entrance hall was decorated with sculptural work by Henrique Araújo Moreira, Diogo de Macedo and José Fernandes de Sousa Caldas. On the main facade, of sober design, are four reliefs representing four feelings: \"Kindness\", \"Pain\", \"Hatred\" and \"Love\", created by Diogo de Macedo and Sousa Caldas. The building was complete in 1918. Its inauguration was held on 7 March 1920, with the presentation of Giuseppe Verdi's Aida.\n\nA projection area was constructed in 1932, and the theatre began to operate a cinema, then designated \"São João Cine\".\n\nOn 26 February 1982, the building was designated a \"Imóvel de Interesse Público\" (\"Property of Public Interest\"), under Decree 28/82 (Diário da República, Série 1, 47).\n\nIn 1992, the theatre was acquired by the State from the family of Pinto da Costa. At that time, the work on the installation of security features and public services were undertaken on site. These were elaborated the following year with upgrades to dressing rooms, the stage, washrooms and remodelling of the electrical systems, which included the installation of an electrical generator.\n\nTwo years later (23 November) a proposal was issued by the DRPorto, to reclassify the Theatre as a Portuguese National Monument. Following a period of remodelling, the theatre began to function regularly, under the designation the \"Teatro Nacional de São João\" (\"São João National Theatre\"). In addition to general cleaning, the work included the consolidation and restoration of the exterior facades, recuperation of the decorative sculptures, treatment of surfaces in pigmented mortar and the installation of new woods and iron. \n\nDuring the course of this transition, attempts to reclassify the institution continued; on 22 April 1996, a dispatch by the Vice-President of IPPAR, devolved to the DRPorto its proposal for reformulation. On 12 September 2005, a new proposal was issued by that entity. This new proposal was favourably accepted by the deliberative council of IGESPAR (the successor to IPPAR), which also proposed that no special protection area should be needed, owing to the sites inclusion with the broader Historical Zone of Porto (an area already designated). The process was ratified by the \"Secretário de Estado da Cultura\" (Secretary of State for Culture\")\" on 14 October 2010.\n\nThe theatre is centrally located in Porto, occupying a complete block, in front of the \"Praça da Batalha\", between the \"Rua de Augusto Rosa\" (on its left) and the \"Travessa do Cativ\" (on its right), with the \"Rua do Cativo\" to the rear.\n\nThe rectangular plan is covered in tile roofing, with its principal facade found on one of the two smaller sides, framed laterally by rustic cornerstones and accentuated by capricious urns and garlands. The \"noble floor\" with three arches on steeped pilasters is inscribed under columns with broad shafts and Ionian capitals, while the doors of the lodges are topped by interrupted pediments.\n\nThree loggias exist on extended balconies, over sills in the thickness of the walls and interconnected by a balcony running on 4 strong consoles in the same alignment as the ordering columns. The arches have a shutter in support and transition to the entablature, which opens a frieze corresponding to a mezzanine of three openings and bas-reliefs alluding to the human passions (\"Pain\", \"Hate\", \"Kindness\" and \"Love\"), subtitled on the architrave. Above, the denticulated cord ends at the frieze and the beginning of a strong cornice based on rebound corbels, which are dense, in a repetitive rhythm that runs throughout the building. Crowning the facade is the gable, rising over a high platform, with rhythmic fenestration and formal, ornamented balustrades. The lateral facades are symmetrical. On the ground floor, there are 3 arched doorways (topped by a running balcony and supported by 4 consoles), flanked by 2 small doors, with an interrupted curvilinear pediment. Here, 3 doors (that are repeated in the two successive upper floors) with balconies and sills, are interspersed between four, embedded Ionic pilasters. The set is flanked by strong masks, on intermediate floor, on which a window opens at the top, with small gap at the bottom. Corresponding to the stage area, there are high, open slits; in this area, the body of the theatre rises above the entablature, accompanying the broken forms or gables, underlined by the frame and ornamental strip. \n\nOn the ground floor, the vestibule occupies the whole width of the building, with access through the 3 doors of the main facade and lateral entranceways. From this space you can access the corridors leading to the audience seating or, to the side, the stairs to the upper floors. The avant-foyer and foyer are located on the first floor and occupy the entire width of the building, with two rooms for a restaurant and smoking room. With its double height, corresponding to the main hall and facade, the interior is profusely decorated along the windows and balustrades, with a wide oculus on the transition doors to the \"avant-foyer\". The two floors correspond to the first-order royal boxes, and, on the second floor, the second-order boxes. The \"avant-foyer\" and \"foyer\" allow circulation with its balconies. On the last floors are the galleries and the amphitheater, forming a single group of places, but with different accesses (one at the level of the lower floors and another at the level of the highest). On the first floor of the amphitheater is a storage room and a paint shop. From the ground floor, the stairs lead to the galleries and amphitheatres, by two direct, exterior entrances, along the lateral facades. The layout of the horseshoe-shaped hall holds 1328 seats, including the 6 large boxes, with one at the height of the first floor, intended as an alternative to a royal box. Between the audience and the stage is the orchestra pit, with independent entrances from the side facades. The stage and dressing rooms have side and rear entrances, that can be divided by a metallic cloth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46253805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46253805", "title": "The Attributes of Civilian and Military Music", "text": "The Attributes of Civilian and Military Music\n\nThe Attributes of Civilian Music and The Attributes of Military Music are a pair of paintings by Jean Siméon Chardin, commissioned in 1766 by Charles-Nicolas Cochin for the pediments above the doors to the music room in his Château de Bellevue at Meudon (Hauts-de-Seine). They were exhibited at the Salon in 1767 and installed in the Château the following year. The Château's goods were later confiscated by the state and the paintings were sold at auction. They were acquired by the portrait painter Jean-Sébastien Rouillard, then by François Marcille and his son Eudoxe. Via a gift from Eudoxe's descendents and from the Société des amis du Louvre, the Louvre Museum was able to purchase them in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "20260124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20260124", "title": "The Mothers of Plaza de Mayo", "text": "The Mothers of Plaza de Mayo\n\nThe Mothers of Plaza de Mayo () is a 1985 Argentine documentary film directed by Susana Blaustein Muñoz and Lourdes Portillo about the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30508758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30508758", "title": "The Old Beauty and Others", "text": "The Old Beauty and Others\n\nThe Old Beauty and Others is a collection of short stories by Willa Cather, published in 1948.\n\nThis collection contains the following stories:\n"}
{"id": "13224391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13224391", "title": "The Red Room Company", "text": "The Red Room Company\n\nThe Red Room Company (also Red Room Poetry) is a non-profit organisation based in Sydney, Australia whose vision is to make poetry a meaningful part of everyday life. It was established by Johanna Featherstone in 2002, emerging from The Red Room Radio Show, which broadcast on 89.7FM Eastside Radio from 2001.\n\nRed Room Poetry creates poetic projects and learning programs in collaboration with a spectrum of poets, schools, communities and partners for positive social impact. Their mission is to make poetry accessible to all, especially those who face the greatest barriers to creative opportunities.\n\nRed Room Poetic Learning is The Red Room Company's poetry education program. It sends contemporary Australian poets into primary and secondary schools all across Australia. It was launched in 2007 with support from the Keir Foundation and the Ian Potter Foundation, initially piloting in four NSW high schools. In 2008 it expanded into Victoria and in 2009-2010 moved further interstate to Norfolk Island and Queensland schools. Red Room Poetic Learning is now a national program, servicing schools everywhere in Australia. Red Room Poetic Learning collaborates with students, teachers and communities to deepen their encounters with poetry. Our learning programs connect poets with students to unlock poetic ways of seeing, writing and responding. Red Room is committed to publishing these outcomes and providing a platform for young poets to share their work with wider audiences.\n\nRed Room Poetry Object is a free poetry writing competition inviting young writers and their teachers to submit poems about special and curious objects. It is open to students in Years 3-10 and teachers from Australia and New Zealand. In 2017, Poetry Object published over 3400 student and teacher poems from over 190 school communities. Migrant and refugee students benefit from the opportunity to positively express their story through poetry. \n\nAs part of Red Room Poetry Object, each year six Australian poets have been commissioned to write new poems about their own talismanic objects.\n\nUnlocked is an educational arts program developed and run by The Red Room Company in collaboration with educational staff from NSW Correctional Centres, which 'unlocks' the potential of inmates through poetry. The initiative's goal is to encourage self-expression and reflection while improving inmates' literacy. Introduced in Sydney in 2010, the project has entered its third year.\n\nAt correctional centres across NSW, Australian poets run intensive writing workshops, collaborating with students on every stage of the writing process: from the initial exercises and experimentations, through the editing and rewriting process, to recording, performing and publishing their work in a professionally designed print anthology.\n\nThe project was developed in collaboration with Corrections NSW Audiovisual Unit and education staff, 2SER's Jailbreak radio show, Blood & Thunder Publishing Concern and Boccalatte. \n\nThe most recent Unlocked project was held at the Balund-a Project, a residential diversionary programme for male and female offenders between 18 and 40. Indigenous poet Lionel Fogarty led the workshops, and the students responded with great enthusiasm to Lionel's work and stories. There was a particular interest in Lionel's use of language, his mixing of English and Bandjalang dialect.\n\nIn October 2012 Red Room Company poets Lionel Fogarty and Nick Bryant-Smith will travel to South Coast Correctional Centre to run an intensive, three-day workshop.\n\nAccording to The Red Room Company, Unlocked offers a range of potential outcomes and benefits for the students involved. Through Unlocked, poets work with both with the vocational education providers working in NSW Correctional Centres, as well as education providers such as ACE Community Colleges, an Adult Education provider and Registered Training Organisation which runs accredited courses in the Balund-a Project.\n\nAt the completion of each project, a limited-edition anthology of work created during the project is published. These publications are made available to inmates who participated in workshops, and is distributed among libraries in correctional centres around Australia.\n\nThrough Unlocked, students can return to their community with recognised qualifications, as a part of the study that they have completed inside. In this way the value of the project is not only supporting students to come to terms with emotions, past experiences or relationships, but to build practical literacy and communication skills, and the confidence to apply them.\n\nThe Red Room Company regularly runs major public creative projects whose goal is to commission new works by contemporary Australian poets, then publicise this new work as widely as possible. Past Projects include:\n\n\nThe Red Room Company's directors include chairperson Bret Walker and Artistic Director Johanna Featherstone.\n\nRed Room Poetry has collaborated with many poets including Judith Beveridge, Bonny Cassidy, Eileen Chong, Tricia Dearborn, Brook Emery, Kate Fagan, Mike Ladd, David Malouf, Greg McLaren, Derek Motion, Andy Quan, Craig Sherborne, Sandra Thibodeaux, John Tranter and Fiona Wright.\n\nA full list of poets can be found on Red Room Poetry's website.\n"}
{"id": "27340225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27340225", "title": "VFX creative director", "text": "VFX creative director\n\nThe VFX creative director is a position common in films, television programs, and computer games using a large amount of visual effects.\n\nFor movies which are fully or partly computer generated, a VFX creative director works closely with the director. On smaller VFX-intensive productions such as music videos or some television commercials, a VFX creative director may also assume the responsibilities of the director. They are charged with making creative and aesthetic choices for visual effects. Although the role is generally more creative in nature, most VFX creative directors have a technical background and may exert a strong practical hand in production.\n\nThe responsibilities of a VFX creative director are very much like those of an art director, production designer, or chief creative officer, though with a particular focus on the computer-generated imagery of their projects. They are primarily responsible for directing and supervising the creative and technical execution of visual effects sequences, from concept to completion, including:\n\nThe VFX creative director may delegate responsibilities to visual effects supervisors, visual effects editors, film compositors, rotoscope artists, matte painters, and 3D animators.\n\nVFX creative directors may therefore have input on various aspects of production, including:\n\nAs with much of the film industry, merit is awarded on the quality of work produced and not on academic qualifications. Bachelor's or master's degrees in film and television, digital media, design, or animation may be beneficial. There are a suite of skills and conditions that predispose an individual to successful operation as a VFX creative director:\n\n"}
{"id": "8689126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8689126", "title": "Viaje del Parnaso", "text": "Viaje del Parnaso\n\nViaje del Parnaso (sometimes called \"Viaje al Parnaso\") () is a poetic work by Miguel de Cervantes. It was first published in 1614, two years before the author's death.\n\nThe chief object of the poem is to survey contemporary poets, assembled on an imaginary boat to Parnassus, and ridicule (and sometimes throw overboard) those who, in Cervantes' opinion, are deficient. This satire is of a peculiar character: an effusion of sportive humour, leaving it a matter of doubt whether Cervantes intended to praise or to ridicule the individuals whom he points out as being particularly worthy of the favour of Apollo. He himself says: \"Those whose names do not appear in this list may be just as well pleased as those who are mentioned in it.\" Cervantes' aims in composing the poem seem to have been to characterise true poetry according to his own poetic feelings, to manifest in a decided way his enthusiasm for the art even in his old age, and to hold up a mirror for the conviction of those who were only capable of making rhymes and inventing extravagances. Concealed satire and open jesting are the combined elements of this work. \n\nThe poem is divided into eight chapters, and the versification is in tercets. The composition is half comic and half serious. After many humorous incidents, Mercury appears to Cervantes (who is represented as travelling to Parnassus in the most miserable condition), saluting him with the title of the \"Adam of poets\". Mercury, after addressing to him many flattering compliments, conducts him to a ship entirely built of different kinds of verse, which is intended to convey a cargo of Spanish poets to the kingdom of Apollo. The description of the ship is a comic allegory. Mercury shows him a list of the poets with whom Apollo wishes to become acquainted and this list, owing to the problematic nature of its half ironical and half serious praises, has proved a stumbling block to commentators. In the midst of the reading, Cervantes suddenly drops the list. The poets are now described as crowding on board the ship in numbers as countless as drops of rain in a shower, or grains of sand on the seacoast; and such a tumult ensues, that, to save the ship from sinking by their pressure, the sirens raise a furious storm. The flights of imagination become more wild as the story advances. Thy storm subsides, and is succeeded by a shower of poets, that is to say poets fall from the clouds. One of the first who descends on the ship is Lope de Vega, on whom Cervantes seizes this opportunity of pronouncing an emphatic praise. The remainder of the poem, a complete analysis of which would occupy too much space, proceeds in the same spirit.\n\nOne of the pieces of verse written by Cervantes, is his description of the goddess Poesy, whom he sees in all her glory in the kingdom of Apollo. To this picture the portrait of the goddess Vain-Glory, who afterwards appears to the author in a dream, forms a companion. Among the passages, which for burlesque humour vie with \"Don Quixote\" is the description of a second storm, in which Neptune vainly endeavours to plunge the poetasters to the bottom of the deep. Venus prevents them from sinking, by changing them into gourds and leather flasks. At length a formal battle is fought between the real poets and some of the poetasters. \n\nThe poem is interspersed throughout with singularly witty ideas; and only a few passages fail to live up to the general standard. It had no prototype. The language is classical throughout, but Cervantes added to the poem a comic supplement in prose, praising his own ability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9859017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9859017", "title": "Windows Color System", "text": "Windows Color System\n\nWindows Color System (WCS) is a platform for color management, first included with Windows Vista, that aims to achieve color consistency across various software and hardware, including cameras, monitors, printers and scanners. Different devices interpret the same colors differently, according to their software and hardware configurations. As a result, they must be properly calibrated to reproduce colors consistently across different devices. WCS aims to make this process of color calibration automatic and transparent, as an evolution of ICC profiles.\n\nWindows Color System features a \"Color Infrastructure and Translation Engine\" (CITE) at its core. It is backed up by a color processing pipeline that supports bit-depths more than 32 bits per pixel, multiple color channels (more than three), alternative color spaces and high dynamic range coloring, using a technology named \"Kyuanos\" developed by Canon. The color processing pipeline allows device developers to add their own gamut mapping algorithm into the pipeline to customize the color response of the device. The new pipeline also supports floating point calculations to minimize round-off errors, which are inherent in integer processing. Once the color pipeline finishes processing the colors, the CITE engine applies a color translation according to a color profile, specific to a device to ensure the output color matches to what is expected.\n\nWCS features explicit support for LCD as well as CRT monitors, projectors, printers, and other imaging devices and provides customized support for each. WCS uses color profiles according to CIECAM02, defined using XML, to define how the color representation actually translates to a visible color. ICC V4 color profiles are also supported. Windows Photo Gallery and Photo Viewer only support the deprecated V2 standard and show dark images when used with V4 profiles, Windows Imaging Component, the HD Photo format, XPS print path and XPS documents all support color management.\n\n"}
{"id": "6207535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6207535", "title": "Women of Color Film Festival", "text": "Women of Color Film Festival\n\nThe Women of Color Film Festival was founded in 1992 and takes place at the University of California at Santa Cruz.\n\nAs the longest running event of its kind, the UCSC Women of Color Film and Video Festival has sparked dialogue across communities locally, nationally, and trans-nationally by providing a platform for critical explorations of race, nation, class, gender, ethnicity, and sexuality. It has become a much-anticipated and acclaimed event for its commitment to visual expression, scholarship, and activism.\n\nTo date it has shown close to 300 films by women of color as well as hosted workshops and panel discussions with filmmakers, artists, and activists. Past festival participants have included Julie Dash, Cheryl Dunye, Lourdes Portillo, Alma Lopez, and Osa Hidalgo de la Riva.\n"}
