{"id": "948020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948020", "title": "2,4-Dinitrophenol", "text": "2,4-Dinitrophenol\n\n2,4-Dinitrophenol (2,4-DNP or simply DNP) is an organic compound with the formula HOCH(NO). It is a yellow, crystalline solid that has a sweet, musty odor. It sublimes, is volatile with steam, and is soluble in most organic solvents as well as aqueous alkaline solutions. It is a precursor to other chemicals and is biochemically active, inhibiting energy (adenosine triphosphate, ATP) production in cells with mitochondria. Its use in high doses as a dieting aid has been identified with severe side-effects, including a number of deaths.\n\nDNP is produced by hydrolysis of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene.\n\nCommercial DNP is used as an antiseptic and as a non-selective bioaccumulating pesticide. It is a chemical intermediate in the production of sulfur dyes, wood preservatives and picric acid. DNP has also been used to make photographic developers and explosives (see shellite). DNP is classified as an explosive in UK and USA.\n\nDNP is particularly used as a herbicide alongside with other closely related dinitrophenol herbicides like 2,4-dinitro-\"o\"-cresol (DNOC), dinoseb and dinoterb.\n\nDust explosion possible if in powder or granular form, mixed with air. May explosively decompose on shock, friction or concussion. May explode on heating. DNP forms explosive salts with strong bases and ammonia, and emits toxic fumes of nitrogen dioxide when heated to decomposition. DNP explosive strength is 81% of TNT according to Trauzl lead block test.\n\nIn living cells, DNP acts as a proton ionophore, an agent that can shuttle protons (hydrogen cations) across biological membranes. It dissipates the proton gradient across mitochondria and chloroplast membranes, collapsing the proton motive force that the cell uses to produce most of its ATP chemical energy. Instead of producing ATP, the energy of the proton gradient is lost as heat.\n\nDNP is often used in biochemistry research to help explore the bioenergetics of chemiosmotic and other membrane transport processes.\n\nDNP is considered to have high acute toxicity. Acute oral exposure to DNP has resulted in increased basal metabolic rate, nausea, vomiting, sweating, dizziness, headache, and loss of weight. Chronic oral exposure to DNP can lead to the formation of cataracts and skin lesions and has caused effects on the bone marrow, central nervous system, and cardiovascular system.\n\nDNP was used extensively in diet pills from 1933 to 1938 after Cutting and Tainter at Stanford University made their first report on the drug's ability to greatly increase metabolic rate. After only its first year on the market Tainter estimated that at least 100,000 people had been treated with DNP in the United States, in addition to many others abroad. DNP acts as a protonophore, allowing protons to leak across the inner mitochondrial membrane and thus bypass ATP synthase. This makes ATP energy production less efficient. In effect, part of the energy that is normally produced from cellular respiration is wasted as heat. The inefficiency is proportional to the dose of DNP that is taken. As the dose increases and energy production is made more inefficient, metabolic rate increases (and more fat is burned) in order to compensate for the inefficiency and to meet energy demands. DNP is probably the best known agent for uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation. The \"phosphorylation\" of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) by ATP synthase gets disconnected or \"uncoupled\" from oxidation.\n\nThe factor that limits ever-increasing doses of DNP is not a lack of ATP energy production, but rather an excessive rise in body temperature due to the heat produced during uncoupling. Accordingly, DNP overdose will cause fatal hyperthermia, with body temperature rising to as high as shortly before death. In light of this, when it was used clinically, the dose was slowly titrated according to personal tolerance, which varies greatly.\n\nCase reports have shown that an acute administration of 20–50 mg per kilogram of body weight in humans can be lethal. The lowest published fatal ingested dose is 4.3 mg/kg. Concerns about dangerous side-effects and rapidly developing cataracts resulted in DNP being discontinued in the United States by the end of 1938. DNP, however, continues to be used by some bodybuilders and athletes to rapidly lose body fat. Fatal overdoses include cases of accidental exposure, suicide, and excessive intentional exposure (overdose). The substance's use as a dieting aid has also led to a number of accidental fatalities. In England and Wales alone, between 2007 and 2016 dinitrophenol was mentioned on the death certificate as being involved in 15 deaths. The Food Standards Agency are aware about 8 deaths involving DNP between 1 January 2017 and 30 June 2018.\n\nAlthough DNP is widely considered too dangerous for clinical use, its mechanism of action remains under investigation as a potential approach for treating obesity. Currently, research is being conducted on uncoupling proteins naturally found in humans.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Food Standards Agency identifies DNP as \"an industrial chemical known to have serious short-term and long-term effects, which can be extremely dangerous to human health.\" and advises \"consumers not to take any product containing DNP at any level. This chemical is not suitable for human consumption.\"\n\nInformation about pharmacokinetics of DNP in humans is limited and conflicting. The EPA states that \"Data on the elimination kinetics of the dinitrophenols or their metabolic products in humans were not found.\" The ATSDR's Toxicological Profile for Dinitrophenols also states that \"No studies were located regarding distribution in humans after oral exposure to 2,4-DNP. Limited information is available regarding distribution in animals after oral exposure to 2,4-DNP.\" However, they do state that \"Elimination from the body appears to be rapid, except possibly in cases of compromised liver function.\" This coincides with a review in the NEJM on the biological actions of dinitrophenol, which stated that \"Judging from the metabolic response, DNP appears to be eliminated entirely in three or four days; in the presence of liver or kidney damage it is possible that the drug will be retained over a longer period.\" Oddly, more recent papers give an array of possible half-lives, ranging from 3 hours, to 5–14 days. Other recent papers maintain that the half-life in humans is unknown.\n\nAlthough further investigation is needed, one case report notes that dinitrophenol-induced hyperthermia has been successfully resolved with dantrolene administration. \"Dinitrophenol uncouples oxidative phosphorylation, causes release of calcium from mitochondrial stores and prevents calcium re-uptake. This leads to free intracellular calcium and causes muscle contraction and hyperthermia. Dantrolene inhibits calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum which reduces intracellular calcium. The resulting muscle relaxation allows heat dissipation. There is little risk to dantrolene administration. Since dantrolene may be effective in reducing hyperthermia caused by agents that inhibit oxidative phosphorylation, early administration may improve outcome.\"\n\nIn 2003, a vendor of DNP was sentenced to prison for mail fraud, with the FDA's OCI investigators having gathered evidence that the vendor's encapsulation of DNP was neither accurate nor sanitary. In 2018, a seller in United Kingdom was convicted of manslaughter for selling DNP as \"fatburner\" for human consumption.\n\nDNP is considered an important environmental contaminant by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. It has been found in 61 of 1400 priority sites that need clean-up of industrial waste. It can enter the air from automobile exhaust, burning of certain industrial substances, and from reaction of nitrogen in air with other atmospheric chemicals. The major site of degradation is the soil, where microorganisms metabolize it.\n\nHowever, the effects of DNP on anaerobic micro-organisms are still largely undetermined. Some studies suggest that there is anaerobic toxicity due to a reduced methane production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30970761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30970761", "title": "2011–12 Moroccan protests", "text": "2011–12 Moroccan protests\n\nThe Moroccan protests are a series of demonstrations across Morocco which occurred from 20 February 2011 to the spring of 2012. They were inspired by other protests in the region. The protests were organized by the 20 February Movement.\n\nThe protests in Morocco were inspired by the Arab Spring protests and revolutions in other North African countries. They were centred around demands for political reform, which included reform against police brutality, electoral fraud, political censorship and high unemployment.\n\nOn 20 February, thousands of Moroccans rallied in the capital, Rabat, to demand that King Mohammed give up some of his powers, chanting slogans such as \"Down with autocracy\" and \"The people want to change the constitution.\" They were heading towards the parliament building, and police did not halt them, although Moroccan Finance Minister Salaheddine Mezouar said that people should not join the march. A separate protest was underway in Casablanca and one was planned for Marrakesh. Looting and major disorder were widespread in Tangier, Marrakesh, Al Hoceima, Chefchaouen, Larache, Ksar-el-Kebir, Fez, Guelmim, Tétouan, and Sefrou.\n\nThousands took to the streets of Rabat, Casablanca, Tangier and Marrakech in peaceful protests demanding a new constitution, a change in government and an end to corruption. During a march on Hassan II Avenue in the capital, Rabat, demonstrators demanded a new constitution to bring more democracy to the country. They shouted slogans calling for economic opportunity, education reform, better health services, and help in coping with the rising cost of living.\n\nThe Associated Press estimated the turnout in Rabat at 4,000, while organisers put the crowd outside Parliament at 20,000. The Interior Ministry estimated that the total number of protesters was about 37,000 people.\n\nOn 26 February, about 1,000 people demonstrated in Casablanca demanding political reforms, according to AFP.\n\nOn 13 March, several hundred demonstrators gathered in Casablanca demanding reforms. Riot police broke up the rally with batons, injuring dozens in what was described as the most violent intervention since the start of the protests.\n\nOn 20 March, an estimated 35,000 citizens of diverse backgrounds and interests participated in peaceful protests in more than 60 cities across the country, some demanding more political changes than those announced by King Mohammed in his 9 March address, with others wanting to keep up the pressure so that the reforms come about. The police did not intervene and no violent acts were reported.\n\nOn 24 April, thousands of people protested across Morocco, demanding an end to corruption, an independent judiciary, constitutional reforms, legislative elections as well as more jobs for university graduates.\n\nOn 8 May, thousands of Moroccans marched in Marrakesh to demand reforms and express their opposition towards terrorist attacks, like the one on 28 April.\n\nOn 22 May, Moroccan police spent hours chasing hundreds of pro-democracy activists through the streets of the capital in an effort to prevent any pro-reform demonstrations. The government appeared to be implementing a new zero-tolerance policy for protesters.\n\nOn 5 June, nearly 60,000 protesters convened in Rabat and Casablanca to demonstrate, many carrying a picture of Kamal Amari, who died from police brutality. The death highlighted escalating police brutality directed at demonstrators.\n\nOn 28 July, a few dozen 20 February Movement protesters gathered in front of a courthouse in Safi to demand authorities to free two unfairly arrested Sebt Gzoula demonstrators. Those two were arrested under false claims of attacking government forces.\n\nProtests have continued nearly every Sunday, with thousands marching in cities around Morocco calling for governmental reform.\n\nOn 18 September, 3,000 protesters marched through the streets of Casablanca in the largest such demonstration in months.\n\nOn 27 May, tens of thousands of Moroccans took to the streets of Casablanca protesting against the government’s alleged failure to tackle unemployment and other social woes, accusing Prime Minister Abdelilah Benkirane of failing to deliver promised reforms.\n\nOn 22 July, hundreds of protesters led by 20 February Youth Movement marched in the working class area of Sidi Bernoussi in Casablanca and chanted against government policies, social marginalisation, and corruption. They also took aim at the wealthy clique of Moroccans known as the Makhzen, the governing elite centred around monarch King Mohammed VI. They were later met with violence by police; suddenly at the very end, police started beating street vendors and passers-by and later started chasing and apprehending protesters.\n\nOn 11 August, nearly 1,000 people gathered in Casablanca chanting anti-corruption slogans, denouncing the sharp rise in prices, and calling for the release of jailed activists, with another 300 people gathered near the main boulevard in Rabat chanting slogans criticising Prime Minister Abdelilah Benkirane and King Mohammed VI, while waving anti-government banners. Activists blame the ruling Justice and Development Party (PJD) for a surge in fuel prices — petrol jumped by 20% in June 2012 when the government moved to cut its unaffordable subsidies bill — that has driven up the cost of food and other basic goods. They also accuse the moderate Islamist party of not fulfilling its campaign pledges to address social grievances and fight corruption.\n\nDozens of activists gathered on 23 August outside Parliament to call for the abolition of the ceremony of the Bay'ah, in which government officials bow down before King Mohammed VI in an elaborate ritual at the palace in Rabat, an annual event normally held on 30 July to commemorate the king's coronation 13 years ago. Opposition activists say the event perpetuates a \"backwardness\" and \"servitude\" in Morocco that is inappropriate for the 21st century, touching on a highly sensitive issue in the North African country. Most of those attending demonstration were members of the 20 February Youth Movement.\n\nAbout 500 demonstrators marched in Rabat on 23 September to protest against corruption and political detentions. The marchers, mostly youths, chanted slogans urging the authorities to release from prison members of the 20 February Youth Movement. There were no reports of unrest and the march ended peacefully.\n\nOn 9 March, in a live televised address, King Mohammed VI announced his decision to undertake a comprehensive constitutional reform aimed at improving democracy and the rule of law, and underlined his \"firm commitment to giving a strong impetus to the dynamic and deep reforms... taking place\". The monarch announced the formation of a commission to work on the constitutional revisions, with proposals to be made to him by June after which a referendum would be held on the draft constitution.\n\nThe commission was widely criticised by the protest movement leaders, which refused to participate in the commission's work, despite being invited to do so by the government.\n\nOn 14 April, King Mohammed VI pardoned or reduced the sentences of 190 prisoners, including Islamists and Sahrawi independence activists.\n\nIn a televised speech on 17 June, King Mohammed VI announced a series of constitutional reforms, passed through a national referendum on 1 July. The newly proposed reforms were largely supported by Moroccans, and popular celebrations were observed throughout the country, although the leaders of the 20 February Movement rejected the proposals as insufficient and called for continuing protests on 19 June 2011 demanding \"truly democratic constitution and a parliamentary monarchy\", while calling for a mass boycott of the poll. On 29 June 2011, the protesters called for a boycott of the referendum.\n\nThe proposed reforms passed and gave the prime minister and parliament more executive authority, and made Berber an official language in Morocco, together with Arabic, as well as the Arab-Hassani Language spoken among the Saharawi tribes of Morocco. The proposal empowered the prime minister with the authority to appoint government officials and to dissolve the parliament - the powers previously held by the king. However, the king remains the military commander-in-chief and retains his position as the chair of the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Security Council, the primary bodies responsible for the security policy. A new constitutional provision also confirms the king's role as the highest religious authority in the country.\n\nIn a televised speech on 30 July the king said the constitutional changes should be implemented swiftly, starting with parliamentary elections, adding that \"any delay may jeopardise this dynamic of trust and squander opportunities offered by the new reform\". After negotiations between the interior ministry, which oversees elections, and some 20 political parties, the government proposed that parliamentary elections should take place on 11 November instead of the scheduled date of September next year.\n\nA large number of protesters went onto the streets again on 11 September 2011 and on 18 September 2011.\n\nOne of the media platforms that advertised the movement was Mamfakinch, a collaborative website that published content mainly in French and Arabic, but also English. \"Mamfakinch\" means \"no concession.\" The website was started by young Moroccans who were excited by the 20 February demonstrations, which sought sweeping social, economic, and political reform in Morocco. The designers claim diverse political persuasions but share a common belief in the democratic values of freedom and humans rights. The site is not afraid to be critical of the Moroccan government and promotes the rights to free speech and access to information. Mamfakinch is a citizen media source endeavoring to provide accurate information that other, mainstream media sources misrepresent, intentionally distort, or completely ignore.\n\nIn 2012, Mamfakinch received the Google/Global Voices Breaking Borders Award for \"defending and promoting freedom of speech rights on the internet.\"\n\nOn 20 February 2011, five bodies had been found in Al Hoceima, within a bank that had been destroyed by protesters who set it on fire during the 20 February protests. According to eyewitnesses, the bodies belonged to rioters that were trying to loot the bank.\n\nOn 2 June 2011, a man died of injuries he had allegedly received during the riots the city of Safi witnessed three days before. Official reports state that the man's participation to the protest in precarious health conditions led to the complications which caused his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46900163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46900163", "title": "2016 GCC Champions League", "text": "2016 GCC Champions League\n\nThe GCC Champions League (), is an annually organized football league tournament for club of the Arabian Peninsula.\n\nThe 2016 edition was set to be the 31st edition.\n\nOn August 6th 2015 it was announced that the competition would be postponed until February 2016 due to the suspension of Kuwait from FIFA. Later in January 2016 it was announced that the competition would not take place at all due to a lack of sponsorship. The next edition would therefore be held in 2017.\n\nThe group stage was drawn before the tournament got cancelled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "425011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425011", "title": "591 BC", "text": "591 BC\n\nThe year 591 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 163 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 591 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\n"}
{"id": "38390735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38390735", "title": "ASEAN-India Car Rally 2012", "text": "ASEAN-India Car Rally 2012\n\nASEAN-India Car Rally is a rally car that took place in 2012. To mark the occasion of the 20th commemorative year of India-ASEAN relations, the 2nd edition of the ASEAN-India Car Rally took place from 26 November - 21 December 2012. The rally began in Yogyakarta Indonesia, with a ceremonial flag-off in Singapore and wind its way through 8 of the 10 ASEAN countries before finally ending in New Delhi, India. 31 Mahindra XUV 500 took part in this rally covering about 8000 km through 8 Asian countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "682513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682513", "title": "Abderraouf Jdey", "text": "Abderraouf Jdey\n\nAbderraouf bin Habib bin Yousef Jdey (, Abd ar-Rawūf Jday) (also known as Farouk al-Tunisi and Al-Rauf Al-Jiddi) (born May 30, 1965) is a Canadian citizen, who was found swearing to die as a shaheed (martyr) on a series of videotapes found in the rubble of Mohammed Atef's house in Afghanistan in 2002.\n\nThe United States has issued three separate alerts that Jdey was about to attack inside the country, in January 2002, September 2003 and May 2004. Three years later, the United States announced that he was one of a handful of terrorists actively plotting to attack the country, although none of their predictions ever panned out.\n\nJdey moved to Canada, using a false passport and seeking asylum, from Tunisia in 1991 and became a Canadian citizen in 1995.\n\nHe rented a C$217 monthly apartment in Rosemont–La Petite-Patrie (a borough of Montreal), and studied biology at the Université de Montréal. In 1999, he wrote a pair of letters to unknown Muslims overseas, explaining how he found religion and speaking with contempt of the United States and United Nations.\n\nAmerican authorities allege that he \"may\" have trained at Mes Aynak alongside hijackers Khalid al-Mihdhar and Nawaf al-Hazmi in Afghanistan, before being assigned to a second wave of attacks. A letter written by Saif al-Adl, and later found by American forces, suggested that Jdey may have originally been slated to have participated in the original September 11 attacks\n\nJdey returned to Montreal, Quebec, Canada in early 2001. Khalid Sheikh Mohamed, while being harshly interrogated, said that Jdey then backed out of the plan. According to a 2010 Harvard report on al Qaeda by a former CIA officer, Jdey was detained in summer 2001 together with Zacarias Moussaoui. Moussaoui was carrying textbooks on cropdusting; Jdey was carrying textbooks on biology. Jdey was evidently subsequently released. In November 2001, he left Canada, several months after obtaining a replacement passport for one he'd received two years earlier which he claimed to have lost. He was believed to be bound for Europe.\n\nLess than three months after the crash of American Airlines Flight 587 in Queens, New York, rumors were already suggesting that it had been destroyed by an unknown terrorist with a shoe bomb similar to the one found on Richard Reid.\n\nFour months later, Mohammed Mansour Jabarah agreed to cooperate with American authorities in exchange for a reduced sentence. A known colleague of Khalid Sheikh Mohamed, he stated that Mohamed's lieutenant had told him that Reid and Jdey had both been enlisted by the al-Qaeda chief to carry out identical plots as part of a \"second wave\" of attacks against the United States.\n\nOn January 14, 2002, a series of five videocassettes were recovered from the rubble of the destroyed home of Mohammad Atef outside of Kabul, Afghanistan. The tapes showed Jdey, Ramzi bin al-Shibh, Muhammad Sa'id Ali Hasan, Abd Al-Rahim, and Khalid Ibn Muhammad Al-Juhani vowing to die as martyrs. It was the first time authorities had reason to suspect him of any wrongdoing. NBC News said the videos had been recorded after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.\n\nThree days later, the FBI released to the public the first FBI Seeking Information – Terrorism list in order to profile the five wanted terrorists about whom very little was known, but who were suspected of plotting additional terrorist attacks in martyrdom operations. Already under fire for issuing \"excessive and somewhat alarmist\" warnings about terrorists plotting against the United States, Attorney General John Ashcroft stated that Jdey and Faker Boussora were likely traveling together and should be considered \"extremely dangerous\".\n\nA month after Jdey and Boussora were declared fugitives, the Republic of Turkey announced that the pair may be within their borders.\n\nRamzi bin al-Shibh was interrogated at an American black site in 2003 about his knowledge of Jdey, and confessed that Jdey had recruited by al-Qaeda. The following year Walid bin 'Attash, similarly interrogated under harsh circumstances at The Dark Prison, confirmed that Jdey had been known to him.\n\nIn September 2003, the FBI issued an alert for four people they alleged \"pose a threat to U.S. citizens\", including Jdey, Adnan G. El Shukrijumah and the previously unknown Zubayr al-Rimi and Karim el-Mejjati.\n\nOn May 26, 2004, Attorney General John Ashcroft and FBI Director Robert Mueller announced that reports indicated that Jdey was one of seven al-Qaeda members who were planning terrorist actions for the summer or fall of 2004. The other six named were Shukrijumah, Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, Amer El-Maati, Aafia Siddiqui and Adam Yahiye Gadahn. American Democrats labeled the warning \"suspicious\" and said it was held solely to divert attention from President Bush's plummeting poll numbers and to push the failings of the Invasion of Iraq off the front page. CSIS director Reid Morden voiced similar concerns, saying it seemed more like \"election year\" politics, than an actual threat, and \"The New York Times\" pointed out that one day before the announcement, they had been told by the Department of Homeland Security that there were no current risks.\n\nThe day after the announcement, there was a reported sighting of Jdey and Shukrijumah at a Denny's restaurant in Colorado. The following year, another tip suggested that the pair had been seen driving a car with a Massachusetts license plate in Maine.\n\nIn April 2005, the U.S. State Department Rewards for Justice Program offered a reward of up to US$5 million for information leading to the capture of Jdey, even though he has not been indicted.\n"}
{"id": "52001800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52001800", "title": "Anatole Jenkins", "text": "Anatole Jenkins\n\nAnatole Jenkins is an American political strategist and political staffer. He served on Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign. He currently serves as the Deputy National Field Director for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.\n\nJenkins spent much of his career working with groups related to President Barack Obama, including his political organization Organizing for America, Barack Obama's 2012 presidential campaign, and Organizing for Action, Obama's nonprofit built from his campaign infrastructure. He served as Coordinated Campaign Field Director for the Nevada Democratic Party in 2014.\n\nIn October 2013, Barack Obama's Twitter and Facebook accounts were hacked. In the same hacking, Jenkins' email was hacked revealing details of Barack Obama's political organization. At the time, he was the Fundraising Manager for Obama. Official representatives of the Syrian Electronic Army, a loose group of hackers who support Syrian President Bashar Al Assad, claimed responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "58552927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58552927", "title": "Atlantis 35th Anniversary Show", "text": "Atlantis 35th Anniversary Show\n\nThe Atlantis 35th Anniversary Show, or more properly Funcion Homenaje a Atlantis por 35 Años de carrera luchistica (Spanish for \"Tribute to Atlantis for his 35 year career in wrestling\") was a professional wrestling super card held on July 13, 2018. The show was produced and scripted by the Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL: Spanish for \"World Wrestling Council\") and took place at Arena México in Mexico City, Mexico. The special edition of CMLL's Super Viernes show honored CMLL wrestler Atlantis for reaching his 35th anniversary as a professional wrestler.\n\nWhile the event honored Atlantis he did not work the main event match, instead he teamed up with old partners Octagón and Rayo de Jalisco Jr. to defeat the team of Fuerza Guerrera, Máscara Año 2000 and Último Guerrero. The main event saw Los Ingobernables (Rush and El Terrible) defeat the Sky Team (Valiente and Volador Jr.) to with the CMLL World Tag Team Championship. The show featured four additional matches.\n\nProfessional wrestler Atlantis made his in ring debut in the summer of 1983. Over the years the young, highly skilled wrestler rose through the ranks of CMLL, winning his first major \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or \"bet match\", just over a year after his debut as he defeated Talismán in the main event of the EMLL 51st Anniversary Show. He would later main event the EMLL 56th Anniversary Show, teaming up with El Satánico to win the masks of Tierra Viento y Fuego and MS-1. He won his third anniversary show main event in 1991 when he defeated and unmasked Mano Negra at CMLL 60th Anniversary Show. In 2000 he deafted and unmasked Villano III in the main event of \"Juicio Final\", in a match that was voted the Wrestling Observer match of the year. His list of high profile mask victories later included long-time rival Último Guerrero at CMLL 81st Anniversary Show and La Sombra at CMLL 82nd Anniversary Show.\n\nThe event featured six professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nThe fifth match of the night honored Atlantis as he teamed up with his old partners Octagón and Rayo de Jalisco Jr., neither of whom worked for CMLL on a regular basis at that point in time. To honor his partner Octagón wore an outfit where his traditional red color was replaced with the blue color associated with Atlantis. The trio faced off against Fuerza Guerrera, Máscara Año 2000 and Último Guerrero. For the night both Máscara Año 2000 and Último Guerrero wore their old wrestling masks that they had both lost years ago. After his team won Atlantis introduced his sons, Atlantis Jr. and El Hijo de Atlantis, to the CMLL crowd.\n\nThe ongoing rivalry between Los Ingobernables and the Ibarra family (Volador Jr., L.A. Park, El Hijo de L.A. Park and Flyer) continued past the championship change, focusing more on Rush and Volador Jr. than previously. After the Negro Casas 40th Anniversary Show, Matt Taven and Bárbaro Cavernario were added to the mix, the latter stepping in to take El Terrible's place when he was injured. That feud that became the main event of CMLL's biggest show of 2018, the CMLL 85th Anniversary Show. Rush and Bárbaro Cavernario won the tag team \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or bet match, when Taven attacked Volador Jr., forcing both Volador Jr. and Taven to be shaved bald as a result.\n"}
{"id": "5301254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5301254", "title": "Best of Eurovision", "text": "Best of Eurovision\n\nThe Best of Eurovision (Die Grand Prix Hitliste) was a unique one-off contest, held in Hamburg, Germany, on 20 May 2006. Its aim was to determine the best from the Eurovision Song Contest, by means of an opinion poll. Eurovision winners and German Eurovision entries competed. Only entries from 1960 to 2005 were included in the contest.\n\nOn the television programme \"Best of Eurovision\", Ruslana's \"Wild Dances\" was presented as the winner, ahead of famous songs, such as \"Waterloo\" and Germany's \"Ein bisschen Frieden\", which finished sixth and twelfth, respectively. The programme was viewed by a television audience of approximately six million people in Germany.\n\nThe top nineteen Eurovision acts voted for in an online poll participated in the live show. No acts were performed live but their original performances in their respective years was shown to viewers instead. After all nineteen songs were shown the voting lines opened by televote and once again via online poll. All votes were combined and counted as the final results. At the end of the show Ruslana was announced as the winner with a 7251 vote lead over runner-up Sertab Erener.\n\n"}
{"id": "22253786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22253786", "title": "Bonville–Courtenay feud", "text": "Bonville–Courtenay feud\n\nThe Bonville–Courtenay feud of 1455 engendered a series of raids, sieges, and attacks between two major Devon families, the Courtenays and the Bonvilles, in south west England, in the mid-fifteenth century. One of many such aristocratic feuds of the time, it became entwined with national politics due to the political weight of the protagonists. The Courtenay earls of Devon were the traditional powerbrokers in the region, but by this time a local baronial family, the Bonvilles, had become more powerful and rivalled the Courtenays for royal patronage. Eventually this rivalry spilled over into physical violence, including social disorder, murder and siege.\n\nThe Bonville-Courtenay feud is often given as an example of the degree to which law and order and respect for the king had broken down in the provinces. As a result, modern historians have often considered it a cause of the later Wars of the Roses; and indeed, the course of the feud often closely followed the sectarian politics of the day. The feud is perhaps most well known for culminating in an armed encounter at Clyst (called the fight, or sometimes the battle, of Clyst), near Exeter, which resulted in loss of life.\n\nThe events at Clyst resulted in government intervention in the politics of the west country. This was unusual, as the government did not have a good track-record of settling local disputes among the nobility. However, it is likely that this was done for reasons of higher politics; William Bonville was by 1455 a Yorkist, and Richard, Duke of York had been made Lord Protector. Although in the short term it resulted in Thomas de Courtenay, Earl of Devon's incarceration, the Bonville–Courtenay feud did not come to an effective end until the protagonists were all killed in the early years of the civil wars.\n\nThe mid-fifteenth century suffered greatly from the private feuds of the nobility, and the Wars of the Roses in general. Devonshire, whilst experiencing none of the pitched battles, was still ravaged by a private feud. This was between Thomas Courtenay, Earl of Devon, whose family had been earls of that county since 1335 and William Bonville, 1st Baron Bonville. Their feud became inextricably tied to the national political scene, but originated in regional Devon society. In 2003, historian Martin Cherry agreed that the south west was to a great degree lawless at this time. However, he suggested that the Bonville-Courtenay feud, whilst being the best-known, is not the sole example of political upheaval in the region, which was common throughout the century.\n\nIn 1966, historian R. L. Storey suggested that the civil wars which racked England for much of the fifteenth century had their origins in the breakdown of both the king's ability to govern, and law and order in the localities, and gave the Courtenay-Bonville feud as one such example. The king, Henry VI, had been incapacitated by mental illness in August 1453. This led to the recall to court of the recalcitrant Richard, Duke of York, his closest adult relative and a potential claimant to the throne. York had been banished to his estates after a failed rebellion in 1452. The following year, with the king still incapacitated, York was appointed Lord Protector and First Councillor of the realm, for the duration of the king's illness. He used this position to move against his chief rival, the hitherto dominant Edmund Beaufort, Duke of Somerset, who was imprisoned. By Christmas of 1454, King Henry had recovered from his illness, removing the basis for York's authority. Henry and a select council of nobles decided to hold a great council at Leicester. York and his closest allies, his brother-in-law Richard Neville, Earl of Salisbury and Salisbury's son Richard, Earl of Warwick, anticipated that charges might be brought against them at this assembly. They gathered an armed retinue and marched to stop the royal party from reaching Leicester, intercepting them at St Albans. Both militarily and politically it was a complete victory for York and the Nevilles. On 22 May 1455, at the First Battle of St Albans they captured the king and retook their places in government, while York's and the Nevilles' rivals, the Duke of Somerset, the Earl of Northumberland, and Lord Clifford were killed. Among the royalists wounded were the Duke of Buckingham and Somerset's son the Earl of Dorset, the Earl of Devon, and the king's half-brother Jasper Tudor, Earl of Pembroke. York was appointed Protector of England, for the second time, by parliament a few months later.\n\nProfessor Ralph A. Griffiths places the fault for the feud between the Courtenays and Bonvilles firmly in the lap of King Henry VI, through whose \"thoughtless liberality and government carelessness ... personal jealousies in the west country had been exacerbated.\" However, more recently, Martin Cherry warned against seeing the feud as the same as the later civil wars writ small; they were, he says, \"qualitatively\" different, resulting in the ultimate disintegration of the earl's affinity, rather than symptomatic of his violence. Michael Hicks has pointed out that although there were many other regional feuds at this time (including the Lisle-Berkeley dispute, also waged in the west country), they did not have the same causes, or were necessarily caused by weak government at all: for instance, whereas the Bonville–Courtenay feud had territorial domination at its root, others, such as the Berkeley–Lisle dispute, were begun over contested inheritances. Cherry has also suggested that the main cause of the Bonville–Courtenay dispute was the desperation of the earl to \"gain access to crown patronage for himself and his clients\" – something he was gradually failing to do in the face of competition.\n\nAs noted, the feud between the Bonvilles and Courtenays was rooted in local Devonshire politics. The rivalry between them stemmed from the fact that they were major estate holders in the south west, and further, because both had claims to crown patronage. For example, William Bonville had fought in the Hundred Years' War for both Henry VI and his father, Henry V, whilst Devon through his wife was the king's cousin. Although the earl was both the greatest landowner and the highest ranking nobleman in the county, he had in recent years seen members of the lesser gentry and nobility (such as William Bonville) receive advancement in his stead. Bonville had also furthered his own advancement by successively marrying into the lower nobility (a daughter of the Lord Grey of Ruthin) and then to an aunt of the Earl of Devon himself. The main royal office in the area – and therefore the main source of royal patronage – was the stewardship of the highly profitable Duchy of Cornwall. Both men had held the office alternately over recent years. Tensions between the two have been traced back to 1437, when the stewardship was taken from Courtenay and granted to William Bonville. Courtenay did receive a royal grant of £100 \"per annum\" life annuity at this time. But, says Griffiths, this is unlikely to have made up for loss of the main royal office in the county. Certainly, within two years, severe attacks were being launched on Bonville's property, and by 1440, relations between the two were, Griffiths says, \"at breaking point.\" This tension became apparent in open manifestations of military strength; manifestations worrying enough to government to lead to them both being summoned before council. In 1441 the stewardship was returned to the Earl of Devon, although Radford questions whether Bonville actually ever physically surrendered the office, as in November that year an arbitration took place between them to \"end all [of their] differences.\"\n\nThere followed a four-year period of peace; but this could simply be accounted for by the fact that Bonville spent that time in service in Gascony, which, it has been suggested, may have been one of the conditions of the arbitration. It was, though, only a temporary peace for the region as by 1449 the earl besieged Bonville (now promoted to the baronage in recognition of his success in France) in his castle of Taunton for a year. Courtenay supported Richard, Duke of York in his 1452 rebellion at Dartford, even joining him in the field against the king. This treason resulted in him forfeiting his royal offices in the south west, including not only the stewardship of the duchy – which was finally granted to Bonville for life – but Lydford Castle, the Forest of Dartmoor, and the Water of Exe. Hence, as his ally the duke was eclipsed in government, Courtenay was eclipsed by Bonville in the south west. Courtenay had – in imitation of his ally – waged a local war against Bonville and Bonville's ally, the Earl of Wiltshire, between 1451–5. Raising an army of 5–6,000 men, he forced Wiltshire to desert his manor of Lackham, and then returned to the siege of Taunton. The siege was only lifted when the Duke of York arrived unannounced three days later, and took the castle into his own hands, forcing a peace upon the two parties.\n\nBonville had, then, by April 1455, received much royal favour, including all the offices the earl had lost, as well as the constableship of Exeter Castle. He was – as one historian has called him – \"the King's lieutenant in the west.\" The Earl of Devon had already reacted against this hegemony during the Duke of York's first protectorate (1454–5) and joined the royal council. However, it appears that even the council itself did not trust him to keep the King's peace, as they placed him under a bond of £1,000 to do so. This he had disregarded, and commenced another campaign against Bonville. This time, the Earl of Devon was accompanied by his sons, and, bringing a force of men into Exeter in April 1455, he attempted to ambush Bonville. This resulted in further government-imposed undertakings of good behaviour between the two parties. As the government was now headed by Courtenay's old ally, the Duke of York, it is likely that it was now that the earl decided to reject his alliance with York and give his support to the crown. He fought (and was wounded) at St Albans on 22 May that year, on the side of the king. Bonville, meanwhile, through his wife, was related to the Harrington family of Hornby, Lancashire, who had close links to the Nevilles – his father-in-law was Thomas Harrington, a feoffee and retainer to the Earl of Salisbury. Bonville's new-found Yorkist sympathies seem to have driven the Earl of Devon to even greater violence in the county.\n\nFrom October 1455, Devon and his sons were committing acts of social disorder, seemingly intending to disrupt the administrative machinery of the county (of which Bonville, of course, was a part), for instance by preventing the local justices of the peace from holding quarterly sessions by force; they then proceeded to raise a small army at Tiverton under the leadership of Devon's eldest son, Thomas Courtenay. It was this force that was to be guilty of what R. L. Storey has called \"the most notorious private crime of the century,\" due not only to the violence involved but the fact that it was \"so obviously premeditated.\" This force made its way to Upcott on 23 October 1455, the home of Nicholas Radford, a close associate and legal advisor to Bonville, and a respected member of the community who had previously been recorder of the city of Exeter and member of parliament. Storey has suggested that being an experienced lawyer, he was most probably targeted by Devon and his sons for the very reason that he had aided Bonville's escape from Devon's litigation in the past; and in January 1455 he had enfeoffed Bonville (and others) for land valued at £400.\n\nThomas Courtenay's force attacked Radford's manor that night; they set fire to the wall and gates to draw him out. On their word, including Courtenay's solemn promise to do him no harm if he would speak with them, Radford let them in – although apparently he commented upon their large number. Whilst Radford and Devon's son drank wine, the latter's followers \"ransacked\" Radford's house, stealing goods up to the value of 1,000 marks, including all his horses and the sheets off his invalid wife's bed. On a pretext of meeting his father the earl, Courtenay persuaded Radford to accompany him when his force withdrew; however, he abandoned Radford on the road a short distance from the house, and six of Courtenay's men killed him. Devon subsequently dispatched a force to the chapel where Radford's body was; they performed, says Storey, a \"mock inquest, one of them acting as coroner and others, with assumed names, as jurors. They brought in a verdict of suicide.\" They then forced Radford's servants to convey his corpse as if he had been a heretic to the graveyard, where it was deposited unceremoniously into an open grave; the stones laid ready to build his memorial were then dropped on the body, crushing it. By making recognition of the body impossible, this prevented an official inquest being held into Radford's death.\n\nThe murder of Nicholas Radford, says R. L. Storey, was only \"the curtain raiser\" for further military activities. Devon proceeded to raise a force and occupy Exeter – \"as if they were the city's lawful garrison\" – until just before Christmas, seizing the keys of the city; various houses in the city belonging to Bonville and his supporters were ransacked, and members of the Cathedral were arrested and forced to buy their freedom. In one case, a man was bodily removed from the choir whilst celebrating Mass. Both Bonville and Courtenay had 'extensive relations' with the Cathedral, dating back to the 1430s, but the Courtenays had greatly contributed to its expansion in the previous century. Their actions in 1455 were probably inspired by the fact that Radford had entrusted much of his wealth to the safe-keeping of the church, and Devon saw an opportunity to enrich himself; possibly, says Storey, he was forced to take such action to be able to pay his men. Martin Cherry has pointed to the lack of references to any martial expenses on the earl's behalf in the extant accounts, as indicating that his campaign effectively paid for itself. During the same period, Devon, \"in warlike fashion and like an insurrection\" also besieged Powderham Castle, which belonged to his distant cousin and Bonville ally, Sir Philip Courtenay; the latter resisted, and Bonville came to his assistance. Prior to doing this, however, he raided the Earl of Devon's house at Colcombe Castle and proceeded to ransack it. Bonville attempted to lift the siege at Powderham on 19 November, but was repulsed by Devon, and lost two men in the fight, which may have involved up to a thousand men. Meanwhile, Devon continued his attempts to persuade the city of Exeter to raise a force on his behalf – which they refused to do – before leaving Exeter on 15 December, as Bonville approached, on his way to Powderham. The two forces met at Clyst, just south west of Exeter.\n\nDevon marched from Exeter to encounter Bonville at Clyst Heath; there are very few extant sources for the event, and only one chronicler provides any details, saying he \"departed out of the city with his people into the field of Clyst, and there bickered and fought with the Lord Bonville and put them to flight, and so returned again that night into the city.\" Many bones were discovered when the site was excavated in 1800, although some, Storey points out, must belong to those killed in the 1549 engagement on the same site. Although difficult to assess the extent to which the engagement can be described as a battle (one chronicler estimated the dead at twelve men) it does appear to have been decisive in Devon's favour. The earl returned to Exeter, where the mayor had \"tactfully\" laid on a celebration. Hannes Kleineke has described the mayor's decision to illuminate the city walls on the earl's return as \"pragmatic\", whilst Cherry explains the mayor's behaviour as being due to the fact that the earl, \"in his peculiar manner, [had behaved] punctiliously\" to the mayor. The earl subsequently sent a sortie led by Thomas Carrew to attack Bonville's manor at Shute where they faced no resistance and pillaged freely, stealing Bonville's cattle, furnishings, and food. The weeks preceding the battle had been accompanied by what has been called \"exchange[s] of formal declarations of war disguised in the chivalric mode of challenges to a duel.\" Michael Hicks has suggested that, in spite of the earl's clear superiority in numbers, it was Bonville who \"goaded the earl into a fair fight,\" and that \"in the spirit of chivalry\" the confrontation at Clyst was his fault. Cherry too has suggested that Bonville and Courtenay of Powderham deliberately attempted to recruit members of the earl's historical tenantry, further poisoning relations, and also that, although doubtless the earl has deserved the 'universally bad press' he has received from modern historians, he was still \"reluctant to go to war,\" and that he did so \"only after all other methods of achieving his aims ... had failed.\"\n\nHowever decisive the Earl of Devon's victory had been, it had also drawn the attention of the government. This was still under the control of Bonville's allies, York, Salisbury, and Warwick, but had up until that point the Yorkists had failed to intervene in this local feud. The feud has been described as an example of local activities influencing parliament itself, and Griffiths said it was used as \"a pretext for demanding York's appointment as protector.\" When parliament reassembled on 12 November it was presented with reports that Devon was leading an army of about 4,000 men and including 400 cavalry to London. The king was still incapacitated. Unable to manage the situation; the Duke of York used the immediate necessity for intervention as a mechanism for being formally appointed Protector. He did not immediately hasten to the south west to punish the Earl of Devon, though. The earl was merely dismissed from his role on the commission of the peace in early December. Soon after, the local gentry were ordered to be ready to assist York. The duke did not set out until news was received of the Clyst confrontation. One chronicler states that following his defeat, Bonville \"fled, and came to Grenewiche to the kyng, and the kyng sent him agayne to the lord protectour;\" although it is also possible that he was committed to the Fleet Prison for a short time. When finally York left for the south west, he summoned the Earl of Devon to Shaftesbury where the earl was arrested and sent to the Tower of London.\n\nThe Earl of Devon remained imprisoned for only a few months. It is possible that an attempt was made to bring him to trial in February, but if so, it was probably – in Storey's words – \"countermanded.\" This could have been, he suggests, indicative of York's \"waning\" position, as the protectorate was soon to come to an end: Cherry has said that the king's resumption of personal power in February 1456 must have come as \"a considerable relief\" to the earl. He seems to have taken the Yorkists' eclipse as a further opportunity to continue the feud, which provoked governmental admonishment in March, when his son John Courtenay, with 500 armed men, again prevented the Exeter justices of the peace from sitting, and evicted them. Commissions of \"oyer and terminer\" were issued in August, being led by Bonville's ally the Earl of Wiltshire. Although Bonville presented a long list of offences committed by Devon to the council (whilst mitigating his own involvement), the crown \"was obviously unimpressed\" by this, and eventually not only restored Devon to commission of the peace (12 September 1456) but also pardoned him and his sons for any involvement in the murder of Radford, eventually even appointing him to the lucrative office of keeper of the forest and park of Clarendon. The region subsequently remained quiet; Bonville was of advanced age and Devon was possibly unwell, as he died in Abingdon within eighteen months. His will was executed by some of the most important men on the Queen's council.\n\nThe region took no active part in the ensuing civil wars until the Battle of Tewkesbury in 1471, but both parties to the feud were killed in the civil wars over the next few years. The new Earl of Devon, who had killed Radford, was a thorough supporter of the Lancastrian regime. After the Yorkist victory at the Battle of Northampton in June 1460, he took his troops northwards to Margaret of Anjou in York, where, in April 1461, he was executed by the new king, Edward IV after the Battle of Towton. Bonville's son and grandson had been killed with the Duke of York and the Earl of Salisbury at the Battle of Wakefield in December 1460, and Bonville himself, captured after the Second Battle of St Albans was summarily beheaded – probably, so the chroniclers tell us, after a mock trial directly instigated by the Earl of Devon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2697165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2697165", "title": "Central City Opera", "text": "Central City Opera\n\nCentral City Opera is the fifth-oldest opera company in the United States, founded in 1932 by Julie Penrose and Anne Evans. Each festival is presented in the 550-seat historic Central City Opera House built in 1878 in the gold mining era town of Central City, Colorado. Pelham G. Pearce was selected in 1996 as Managing Director for Central City Opera, and he was named General/Artistic Director in May 1998, when John Moriarty became Artistic Director Emeritus.\n\nMost recent six-week summer festivals have included traditional and progressive works. About forty performances, including those specifically for young people, are presented each season. 2007 marked the 75th anniversary of the company and a single-season move from 3 to 4 opera productions. \"Short Works\" (selected ten-minute opera scenes), selected one-acts, and \"Lunch & a Song\" (solo luncheon performances), are produced alongside the main opera season by assistant directors and apprentice singers as part of the Bonfils-Stanton Foundation Artists Training Program.\n\nSuccessful commissions for the company include the American classic \"The Ballad of Baby Doe\" by Douglas Moore, premiered in 1956, the popular one-act opera \"The Face on the Barroom Floor\" by Henry Mollicone, premiered in 1978 and the 2003 world premiere of \"Gabriel's Daughter\", also composed by Henry Mollicone. The World Premiere of Chinese opera, \"Poet Li Bai\", commissioned by the Asian Performing Arts of Colorado, was presented in 2007.\n\nCentral City Opera's prestigious Bonfils-Stanton Foundation Artists Training Program, founded by Artistic Director Emeritus John Moriarty, has served for more than two decades as a national model for training young singers. The rigorous 10-week program integrates daily training in diction, movement, and stage combat with individual coaching, sessions in career management and rehearsals and performance opportunities in the summer's mainstage and auxiliary productions. The program selects 30-32 participants from nearly 1,000 applicants each year.\n\nNoteworthy Opera traditions include the annual Yellow Rose Ball, Colorado's oldest debutante ceremony, on opening day.\n\nThe Ushers Song (sung by the Usher Corps as they march up the street to open the theatre for each mainstage performance). The Usher Corps, composed of collegiate and young professional interns from all production and administrative departments, includes the traditional Bell Ringer to announce the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10862721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10862721", "title": "Coal Glen mine disaster", "text": "Coal Glen mine disaster\n\nThe Coal Glen mine disaster was a coal mine explosion that occurred on May 27, 1925, in Coal Glen, Oakland Township, Chatham County, North Carolina, United States. It is located just north of the city of Sanford, North Carolina. Fifty-three miners died in the explosion. Attempts at re-opening the mine were made sporadically until the 1950s, but were never financially viable. The mine was permanently closed in 1951.\n\nA historical marker was dedicated June 3, 2017 at Farmville Community Church at U.S. 15-501 and Walter Bright Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "57204051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57204051", "title": "Colorado Renaissance Festival", "text": "Colorado Renaissance Festival\n\nThe Colorado Renaissance Festival is a Renaissance fair in Colorado located in Larkspur, Colorado 39 miles south of Denver and 32 miles north of Colorado Springs. The Renaissance Festival typically runs between the months of June and August. It is based on a 16th-century Tudor village.\n\nThe renaissance festival was begun in 1975 as a tear down event in Morrison, Colorado with 60 artisan booths. After two years, the grounds moved to Castle Rock before settling in its current location of Larkspur. It was founded by a man named Jim Paradise. His son, Jim Paradise Jr. is the current director of the faire.\n\nThe festival features over 200 artisan shops and hundreds of costumed performers. The festival also hosts weddings in accordance to the themed weekends.\n\nEach of the eight weekends of the festival take on a different theme, influencing the performances, costumes, food, drink, art, shops, contests, and games throughout the festival grounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "38073006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38073006", "title": "Death of Esther Mwikamba", "text": "Death of Esther Mwikamba\n\nEsther Wanjiru Mwikamba was a Kenyan woman who died on March 20, 2012 following a coma state since February 18, 2012 when she was brutally assaulted for questioning the molestation of her friend, while she with her friends were leaving a night club in Dubai.\n\nThe incident happened in the early hours of February 18, 2012 at the car park behind the Crowne Plaza Hotel on Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai.\n\nEsther with two other women were walking to a waiting taxi during dark early morning when a group of young men in their early twenties approached them uninvited. Eyewitnesses alleged that unwarranted advances by one male led to the violence. They claimed that he groped one of the women on her buttocks. One of the women, Susan Wanjiru, said she immediately protested in very clear terms and told the offending man to leave her friend alone. The unidentified man answered with a punch to Susan's face, she claimed. When Susan was knocked from her feet, Esther attempted to defend her friend, throwing one of her shoes in the direction of the assailant. \n\nAccording to Susan, the group of men quickly gathered up their male friend and placed him in a four-wheel-drive vehicle to defuse the scene and apologized saying that he was drunk. But the man left the vehicle, then allegedly punched Esther in the face, knocking her to the ground, and began kicking her in the head. \n\nHer friends said that the assailant repeatedly kicked Esther in the head, even though her friends resisted, while she was lying on the ground defenseless, bleeding from her ears, nose, and mouth.\n\nThe victim, Esther was 26 at the time of attack and was working in a retail store and was formerly a sales clerk at a major store in the Dubai mall.\nShe was described by her friends as a \"petite young woman full of life and strong mind with a personality and zest for life leads her to speak her mind and often help friends\".\n\nEsther was immediately rushed to Rashid Hospital, Dubai by an ambulance and eyewitnesses said that she was bleeding from her ears, nose and mouth. She was admitted to intensive care unit where she remained in coma stage till her death.\n\nKenyan community in the UAE, supported by the Kenyan Embassy, Abu Dhabi and the Kenyan Welfare Association, Dubai helped her mother Hanna Mwikama to come to Dubai and spend at her daughter's bedside during her last 3 weeks in coma.\nShe succumbed to death on March 20, 2012 early morning after being in coma stage for 30 days.\n\nA 23-year-old jobless Emirati was arrested following the incident and was charged with 'assault leading to death' and for sexually molesting Esther's friend.\n\nThe Dubai court convicted the Emirati perpetrator of assault leading to death and handed down the three-year sentence. The defendant was given another year behind bars for sexually molesting Esther’s friend. According to UAE law the maximum penalty for assault leading to death is 10 years in jail.\n\n"}
{"id": "34255929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34255929", "title": "Dola Puja", "text": "Dola Puja\n\nDola Puja is a Hindu festival popular in Odisha.\n\nThe Dola puja happens in the Chaitra month of the Hindu calendar. It comes before the festival Holi, and ends with Holi.\n"}
{"id": "52727265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52727265", "title": "Edward C. Macfarlane", "text": "Edward C. Macfarlane\n\nEdward Creamor Macfarlane (October 8, 1848 – February 16, 1902), also known as Ned Macfarlane, was a politician of the Kingdom of Hawaii. He served as Minister of Finance during the reign of Queen Liliuokalani, and was one of her trusted political advisor during the Overthrow of the Kingdom of Hawaii.\n\nHe was born in October 8, 1848 in Hawaii. His parents were Richard (or Henry) Macfarlane (died 1860) and Eliza Macfarlane (1828–1904). His father was Scottish, of the Highland Clan MacFarlane, while his mother was of English descent from Devonshire. His parents married in Auckland and were early settlers of Hawaii arriving to the islands in 1846 via New Zealand. His brothers were: Henry R. Macfarlane, George W. Macfarlane, who served on as Chamberlain of King Kalākaua, Frederick W. Macfarlane and Clarence W. Macfarlane. A younger sister Helen Blanche Macfarlane married William H. Cornwell. All were born in the island with the exception of Henry who was born at sea.\n\nHe moved to California and worked for \"The Wasp\", a San Francisco magazine, owned by Frank J. Ballinger, for a time before returning to Hawaii.\n\nIn the legislative election of 1890, Macfarlane ran and was successfully elected to the House of Nobles, the upper house of the Legislature of the Kingdom of Hawaii, for a four-year term. He sat in the legislative assembly of 1890 during the reign of King Kalākaua and during the 1892–93 session under his successor Queen Liliʻuokalani. He was a member of the Hawaiian National Reform Party in the 1890 session and remain so in the following session.\n\nFrom May 28, 1892 to January 14, 1893, the legislature of the Kingdom convened for an unprecedented 171 days, which later historian Albertine Loomis dubbed the \"Longest Legislature\". This session was characterized by a divided legislature with no party holding control.\nOn September 12, 1892, Macfarlane became the head of the so-called “Macfarlane Cabinet” and was appointed Minister of Finance after the previous cabinet under Hermann A. Widemann resigned. He formed his cabinet consisting of Samuel Parker, retaining him from the previous cabinet as minister of foreign affairs; Charles T. Gulick, as minister of the interior; and Paul Neumann, as attorney general. Serving a mere five weeks, he and his colleagues were voted out by the legislature on a resolution of want of confidence, on October 17. The queen asked them to retain their position until she appointed a new cabinet on November 1.\n\nAfter the overthrow of the monarchy, Macfarlane accompanied Neumann and Prince David Kawānanakoa to represent the deposed queen's case to the United States government. Queen Liliuokalani regarded Macfarlane as a trusted advisor and confided with him during the overthrow. Writing in her 1898 memoir \"Hawaii's Story by Hawaii's Queen\", she noted:\nThe Macfarlane cabinet was one of the greatest popularity amongst the Hawaiian people on account of the stand Mr. Macfarlane took in the House, and his courage in replying to the false and uncalled-for speeches of J. L. Stevens, the American Minister resident.\n\nAfter the establishment of the Territory of Hawaii, he ran as a candidate of the Democratic Party for the first Hawaii Territorial Legislature, although he was not elected. Besides politic, he also engaged in business in Hawaii. He managed E. C. Macfarlane & Company and was involved in the investment of Royal Hawaiian Hotel (not the current Waikiki hotel) with his brother George. On February 6, 1902, he married, in San Francisco, Florence Ballinger, the sister of Frank J. Ballinger, his former business partner. During their honeymoon, Macfarlane caught a cold and died of pleuropneumonia in Chicago, on February 16, 1902; contradictory reports claimed he was either 53 or 49.\nHis remains were taken back to Honolulu for his funeral. After a Catholic ceremony, he was interred at the Macfarlane family plot in the Oahu Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "48646033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48646033", "title": "Enab Baladi", "text": "Enab Baladi\n\nEnab Baladi () is a Syrian nonprofit media organization established in Darayya, Syria in 2011.\n\n\"Enab Baladi\" newspaper was first launched in 2011 by a group of citizen journalists and activists from Daraya, a Syrian town in Damascus suburbs. In January 29, 2012, issue #0 was published marking the beginning of a revolutionary newspaper. Since then, it has been printed each week on Sundays, with one two-week stoppage in August 2012 due to Darayya massacre committed by Assad forces.\n\nEnab Baladi's mission is to serve a role in educating Syrian citizens through in-depth public interest reporting, including investigative journalism and news reports to elevate important social topics at the local level. Enab Baladi helps advance a democratic society in Syria by producing independent and credible journalism that informs the Syrian public about important issues.\n\nEvery week, a new issue of Enab Baladi newspaper is published. The publishing process takes two forms: print and digital. The print version is distributed in Syria as Enab Baladi currently prints around 7,000 copies every week and distributes them in northern parts of Syria (Aleppo and suburbs, Latakia and suburbs, and Idlib and suburbs) and in Turkey to Syrian refugees. The printing takes place in Turkey and then shipped to Syria. Enab Baladi used to print and distribute in the southern parts of Syria but after Assad forces destroyed its office and equipment in Daraya, the team was forced to start printing and distributing in northern Syria. The PDF version of the newspaper reaches hundreds of thousands of subscribers and fans, whether through electronic distribution list, Enab Baladi website and/or social media pages including over 0.65 million Facebook fans.\n\nSince its establishment during the first year of the Syrian uprising, late 2011, EB has focused on promoting the peaceful resistance methods to counter the sectarian and violence narratives of the Syrian regime. Enab Baladi succeeded in providing the Syrian people with trusted information about events in Syria through its weekly newspaper. EB coverage included the human rights violations perpetrated by the Syrian regime, as well as the inception of the nascent Syrian civil society, in addition to various news and topics in the fields of politics, economy, and social affairs.\n\nThe newspaper grew from amateur-run organization into becoming one of the most prominent Syrian media organizations according to BBC Syria profile page. Currently, Enab Baladi produces several products, Enab Baladi Weekly Newspaper, the Enab Online News Service Website, The Syrian Print-Media Archive, and its latest English news website. These projects are supported by a network of reporters and journalists who strive to give credible reports from the ground in Syria.\n\nEnab Baladi succeeded in drawing the attention of many local and international media. Its story appeared on BBC, France 24 Channel, Spiegel Online International, The Guardian, Al-Arabiya, and Al-Jazeera among many others. The French famous magazine “ELLE” published a story about EB’s women team, “THE \"GANG OF GIRLS\" RISKS THEIR LIVES TO REPORT FROM INSIDE A WAR ZONE”. Around ten women are working as reporters, editors, and translators for EB. ELLE article tells the story of one of them, Kholoud Waleed, and highlights the role that women played in the establishment of the newspaper, the challenges they faced during their work as citizen journalists in Syria and the success they achieved.\n\nEnab Baladi built relationships with many international organizations such as National Endowment for Democracy, Internews, Free Press Unlimited, European Endowment for Democracy, l’Association de Soutien aux Médias Libres, Adopt a Revolution, L'agence française de coopération médias, Norwegian People’s Aid, and International Media Support.\n\nEnab Baladi also joined many alliances and coalitions:\n\nThe newspaper won two awards through two of its co-founders, Majd Sharbaji who won the U.S. State Department Women of Courage Award, and Kholoud Helmi who won the 2015 Anna Politkovskaya Award \n\n"}
{"id": "28140010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28140010", "title": "Failure to obey a police order", "text": "Failure to obey a police order\n\nFailure to obey a police officer, or failure to obey a police order, is typically a misdemeanor in the United States. In Washington, DC, this law is utilized primarily for purposes of ensuring that officers tasked with directing traffic have the authority to direct motorists and pedestrians in a proper and safe manner. In Virginia, it is a misdemeanor to refuse to assist an officer in responding to a breach of the peace or in executing his office in a criminal case.\n\nIn Canada, the Criminal Code makes it illegal for a motor vehicle driver to disobey an order to stop for a police officer. This includes . Such a charge, other than those involving death or bodily harm, can be prosecuted either summarily or by indictment. Flight from police causing injury or death is always indictable, with maximum penalties of 14 years and life imprisonment, respectively. A conviction also comes with a mandatory driver licence suspension by the relevant provincial or territorial Ministry of Transportation (e.g. minimum 5-year suspension of Ontario-wide driving privileges).\n\n"}
{"id": "12244764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12244764", "title": "GT4 European Series", "text": "GT4 European Series\n\nThe GT4 European Series is a sports car championship created by the Stéphane Ratel Organisation (SRO) and organised by GT-Future GmbH. It is an amateur championship which followed a formula similar to the FIA GT3 European Championship, which was itself derived from the FIA GT Championship which utilized the GT1 and GT2 classes. The GT4 class cars are the least powerful of the four classes, yet are equalised in order to allow driving skill to become key.\n\nFollowing the successful introduction of the FIA GT3 European Championship in 2006, the formula was expanded to include usage by other nationally based professional championships such as the British GT Championship, Belcar, Australian GT Championship and German ADAC GT Masters. While the FIA GT3 European Championship continues, the SRO felt that a true amateur championship was needed in order to complement GT3 which allowed a certain level of professional driver to compete. Many national series also adopted the GT4 regulations as a lower class, and the European Cup eventually lacked the competitors needed to continue. During the 2016 24 Hours of Spa, the Stéphane Ratel Organisation (SRO) announced that the European Cup will be divided in 2 different series starting from 2017.. They are called the GT4 European Series Northern Cup and the GT4 European Series Southern Cup. The Northern Cup will be the same as the European Cup, while the Southern Cup will collect forces with the FFSA GT Championship. Since Stéphane Ratel spoke out about his firm belief in this class, many championships and constructors have followed. \n\nGT4 class cars are mostly what can be referred to as track day cars, which are factory-built race cars available to the public. However, custom-built cars based on production models can also be built by teams. All cars are test driven by the FIA and then modified so that they all have near identical performance levels. Once a car has been approved by the FIA, it cannot be modified by the teams, eliminating continual development costs for constructors. All cars run on regulated Pirelli tires and Continental tires to further equalize performance.\n\nThe following cars are currently homologated for GT4:\n\nLike GT3, GT4 drivers have a set of criteria which would automatically eliminate them from competition based on their level of experience. Since GT4 class drivers are meant to be true amateurs, these criteria are tighter than that seen in GT3.\n\nDrivers under the age of 30 are not allowed to have had a top-ten finish in any national or international single-seater championship, nor to have had a distinguishable career in a national or international GT championship. These drivers are known as Silver drivers. Drivers over the age of 30 who did not receive their racing licenses until after turning 30 and having no single-seater experience at all are also allowed in the series, under the term Bronze drivers.\n\nJust as in GT3, each event would consist of two races of equal distance, usually held on different days. Teams were not required to have two drivers and could use the same driver for each race.\n\nThe championship used the standard FIA point scheme for the top ten finishers: 25-18-15-12-10-8-6-4-2-1. If a team used different drivers for each race in a single event, both drivers would receive points. A driver and team championship were both held.\n\nIf at least five cars of the same make participate in a race, then a manufacturer cup would also be awarded, similar to the style used in GT3.\n\nSince the introduction of the GT4 European Cup, the GT4 class of cars have been expanded to various national series. The British GT Championship and Belgian GT Championship allow GT4 and Super Sport class cars to compete alongside the GT3 class, while the stand-alone Dutch GT4 Championship ran its first season of competition 2009. A GT4 championship plans to be run in Brazil in 2010. Norway introduced a national championship called GTF in 2014 featuring GT4 regulated cars.\n\n"}
{"id": "24097540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24097540", "title": "Genocide law (Albania)", "text": "Genocide law (Albania)\n\nThe law \"On Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity Committed in Albania during the Communist Regime for Political, Ideological and Religious Motives\" (Nr. 8001, September 22, 1995)) was enacted in Albania with the purpose of expediting the prosecution of the violations of the basic human rights and freedoms by the former communist governments of the Socialist People's Republic of Albania. The law has also been referred to in English as the \"Genocide law\" and the \"Law on Communist Genocide\".\n\nThe law excluded, until December 31, 2001, from government, parliament and judiciary, and mass media positions any higher political officials who held office in Albania prior to March 31, 1991, i.e., who held higher positions in Communist Albania: members of politburo, Central Committee, parliament, as well as former secret police agents and informers. It was similar to decommunization efforts in other former communist states.\n\nA person may run for an office after an investigation of their \"moral character\" by a special state commission. The commission decision may be appealed before the Cassation Court. The law was effected a short time before the elections, and many candidates were prevented from standing, simply because the verification stages could not be carried out on time.\n\nThe affected politicians claimed that it was intended to strengthen the hold of Sali Berisha on power.\n\nAn attempt to repeal the law basing on its alleged unconstitutionality was rejected by the constitutional court on January 31, 1996. However some provisions of the law were stricken out.\n\nBasing on this law, former President Ramiz Alia, previously amnestied, was imprisoned again, now on charges for crime against humanity. Some decried this application of the law as an example of double jeopardy.\n\nThe law lasted only two years, because it was repealed during the 1997 rebellion in Albania, and eventually formerly banned politicians entered the coalition government.\n"}
{"id": "54553988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54553988", "title": "Greater Gulf State Fair", "text": "Greater Gulf State Fair\n\nThe Greater Gulf State Fair is an annual fair and agricultural show that is held at the Greater Gulf State Fairgrounds in Mobile, Alabama. It features livestock competitions, rides, concessions, motor contests, and concerts. It has been held every year since 1955, and moved to its current location in 1974. The event's name stems from its serving of people from Lower Alabama, Lower Mississippi, and the Panhandle of Florida. It is the largest fair in the state of Alabama.\n\nThe Greater Gulf State Fair began as a fund-raising initiative for the Mobile Jaycees, a group of members of the Mobile Junior Chamber of Commerce. It was first held at Blakeley Island in 1955, and drew 60,000 people in its inaugural year. Elvis Presley was the first concert performer, and offered them a four-year contract to return, but the Fair declined. With the event gaining success, the Jaycees hired a president to oversee planning in 1958. During these years, the event took place at Ladd Stadium, and later at Hartwell Field in Mobile. In 1974, the Fair moved to its permanent residence at the Greater Gulf State Fairgrounds in west Mobile. It was renamed \"the Grounds\" in 2014.\n\nThe rides present at each Fair are a combination of the Fair that begins in Canada, travels down opposite seaboards, and regroups in Mobile.\n"}
{"id": "19092475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19092475", "title": "Grim Sleeper", "text": "Grim Sleeper\n\nGrim Sleeper is the nickname for convicted serial killer Lonnie David Franklin Jr., responsible for at least ten murders and one attempted murder in Los Angeles, California. The attacker was dubbed the \"Grim Sleeper\" because he appeared to have taken a 14-year break from his crimes, from 1988 to 2002. In July 2010, Franklin was arrested as a suspect, and, after many delays, his trial began in February 2016. On May 5, 2016, the jury convicted him of killing nine women and one teenage girl. On June 6, 2016, the jury recommended the death penalty, and on August 10, 2016, Los Angeles Superior Court sentenced him to death for each of the ten victims named in the verdict.\n\nLonnie Franklin, Jr. was born on August 30, 1952. He grew up in South Central Los Angeles, California. He married and had two children. He was given a general discharge from the United States Army on July 24, 1975.\n\nFranklin's criminal record dates back to 1989. He was convicted of two charges of theft, one charge of misdemeanor assault, and one charge of battery. He served time for one of the theft charges.\n\nIn the 1980s, the LAPD marked the deaths of several women in South Los Angeles with the identification “NHI”, meaning No Humans Involved - which was used for cases involving chronic drug users and prostitutes. Margaret Prescod formed the \"Black Women Count\" movement with community members to pressure the LAPD into acknowledging the deaths as serial killings and forming a task force in response. The coalition launched a media campaign and set a monetary reward aiming to capture the killer. The joint LAPD-Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department investigation determined that the crimes were committed by a single person labeled the \"Southside Slayer\". Their results were announced to the public on September 23, 1985.\n\nAccording to investigators, evidence was found suggesting that several serial killers were murdering women in South Los Angeles. Louis Craine committed at least two of the \"Southside Slayer\" murders, and Michael Hughes, Daniel Lee Siebert, Chester Turner, and Ivan Hill committed at least one each. A separate series of killings commenced with the murder of Debra Jackson and a different \"modus operandi\" involving a firearm. These became known, misleadingly, as the \"Strawberry Murders.\" Sheriff's Detective Rickey Ross was wrongfully arrested due to a ballistics error. Two decades later, the perpetrator of these crimes was dubbed the \"Grim Sleeper\" due to the long period of apparent inactivity between murders.\n\nIn May 2007, the slaying of Janecia Peters, 25, was linked through DNA analysis to at least eleven unsolved murders in Los Angeles, the first of which occurred in 1985. This same year, in secrecy, the LAPD formed the \"800 Task Force,\" composed of six detectives and overseen by the Robbery-Homicide Unit. After a four-month investigation, \"LA Weekly\" investigative reporter Christine Pelisek broke the news of the task force's existence, the link between Peters' killing and the earlier murders, and the silence of Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Police Chief William J. Bratton regarding the killer's existence. Villaraigosa and Bratton neither issued a press release nor warned the community. In some cases, \"LA Weekly\" was the first to inform the families that their daughters had long been confirmed as victims of a serial killer.\n\nIn early September 2008, Los Angeles officials announced that they were offering a $500,000 reward to help catch the killer. On November 1, the case was featured on the Fox program \"America's Most Wanted\". On February 25, 2009, Bratton addressed the press for the first time regarding the case, at which time the police formally gave the killer the \"Grim Sleeper\" nickname chosen by \"LA Weekly\". Bratton also released a 9-1-1 call from the 1980s in which a man reported seeing a body being dumped by the Grim Sleeper, giving a detailed description and license plate number of a van connected with the now-closed Cosmopolitan Church. In March 2009, Pelisek conducted an extensive interview with Enietra Washington, the sole survivor of the Grim Sleeper's attacks. Washington described him as \"a black man in his early 30s...He looked neat. Tidy. Kind of geeky. He wore a black polo shirt tucked into khaki trousers.\" She also described the interior and exterior of his vehicle.\n\nOn July 7, 2010, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that an arrest had been made. Los Angeles District Attorney Steve Cooley identified the suspect as 57-year-old Lonnie David Franklin Jr., a mechanic who worked between 1981 and 1988 for the City of Los Angeles in the sanitation department and briefly for the LAPD. Franklin was identified for arrest, at least in part, on familial DNA analysis.\n\nPolice had found no exact match between DNA found at the crime scenes and any of the profiles in California's DNA profile database, so they searched the database for stored profiles that demonstrated sufficient similarity to allow police to infer a familial relationship. They found similar DNA belonging to Franklin's son, Christopher, who had been convicted of a felony weapons charge. According to Cooley, detectives then used a piece of discarded pizza with Franklin's DNA to make the link. One undercover police officer pretended to be a waiter at a restaurant where Franklin ate, collecting dishes, silverware, glasses, and pizza crusts to obtain DNA. The identification was used to arrest Franklin after his DNA was obtained and deemed a match. Saliva found on the victims established a DNA match linking Franklin to the deaths.\n\nLaw enforcement missed an opportunity to catch Franklin because his DNA was never collected. In 2003, Franklin was convicted of a felony and was serving three years of supervised probation. In 2004, voters passed Proposition 69, which requires that DNA must be collected from all felons and everyone arrested on some specified charges. It also requires the expansion of the DNA database. Authorities collected and sorted through thousands of DNA samples. While he was on probation, Franklin's DNA was supposed to be entered in the system, but was not as probation officers did not collect samples from people who were on unsupervised probation between November 2004 and August 2005. The probation department did not have the resources to collect samples until August 2005.\n\nOn December 16, 2010, the LAPD released 180 photos of women found in Franklin's home after unsuccessful attempts to identify the individuals, possibly additional victims. \"These people are not suspects, we don't even know if they are victims, but we do know this: Lonnie Franklin's reign of terror in the city of Los Angeles, which spanned well over two decades, culminating with almost a dozen murder victims, certainly needs to be investigated further,\" said Police Chief Charlie Beck. In all, investigators found over 1,000 photos and several hundred hours of video in his home. The images show mainly black women of a wide age range, from teenagers to middle-aged and older, often nude. Police believe Franklin took many of the pictures, which show both conscious and unconscious individuals, dating back 30 years. The photos were released to the public in an effort to identify the women.\n\nOn November 3, 2011, Reuters reported that the police were considering Franklin as a suspect in six more slayings of additional female victims. The police were investigating two of the six as potential victims killed during a 14-year lapse between an initial spate of Grim Sleeper murders that ended in 1988 and several more that began in 2002. Of the remaining four victims, two bodies were discovered in the 1980s and two were reported missing in 2005 but the remains of the other two were never found, police said. Detectives said they linked Franklin to the six additional killings after reviewing hundreds of old case files and seeking the public's help in identifying a collection of 180 photographs of women and girls that were found in his possession.\n\nFranklin was charged with ten murders and one attempted murder. He was held without bail until he received his death sentence. He is not charged in the death of an eleventh suspected victim, a black man, a crime for which DNA evidence was not found. On May 5, 2016, after nearly three months of trial and a day and a half of jury deliberation, Franklin was convicted of ten counts of murder and one count of attempted murder. On June 6, 2016, a Los Angeles County jury sentenced Franklin to death.\n\nThe known killings began in 1985 in South Los Angeles. The \"Grim Sleeper\" apparently took a 14-year hiatus after his last known crime in 1988 and the murders that resumed in 2002 (leading to the epithet by which he is known), but this history may be only an accident of the evidence collected. The last confirmed slaying was in January 2007. All of his victims were found outdoors, often in alleys a short distance from downtown Los Angeles.\n\nAll but one of his victims were black women. One of his suspected victims was a black man. Many of his victims were prostitutes. One witness recalls that Franklin frequently brought prostitutes into his home. He shot all of his victims with a .25 caliber gun. Franklin took many photographs of nude women and kept the records in his garage.\n\nThe Grim Sleeper's victims are as follows:\n\nOn July 7, 2010, Lonnie David Franklin Jr., 57, was arrested. The Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office charged him with ten counts of murder, one count of attempted murder, and special circumstance allegations of multiple murders in the case.\n\nAfter a lengthy pretrial discovery and several delays, the trial opened on February 16, 2016. Closing arguments began May 2, 2016 and the jury began deliberating May 4, 2016. The jury convicted Franklin on all counts on May 5, 2016. On June 6, 2016, the jury rendered a verdict of death.\nOn August 10 the Superior Court sentenced Franklin on each count, naming the individual victims.\n\nIn 2014, British filmmaker Nick Broomfield created a documentary film about this serial killer, \"Tales of the Grim Sleeper.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22729155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22729155", "title": "Imagina", "text": "Imagina\n\nIMAGINA is the name of an annual festival on computer graphics (CG) that takes place in Monte-Carlo, Monaco. It was created by The Institut national de l'audiovisuel (or INA, the French for National Audiovisual Institute). The first IMAGINA festival was held in 1981, while the actual name IMAGINA was only introduced in 1986. It is sometimes compared to the CG festival part of SIGGRAPH. In 2000, the festival was sold to the Monte-Carlo television festival, which decided to switch towards a meeting targeting professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "22024384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22024384", "title": "International monetary systems", "text": "International monetary systems\n\nAn international monetary system is a set of internationally agreed rules, conventions and supporting institutions that facilitate international trade, cross border investment and generally the reallocation of capital between nation states. It should provide means of payment acceptable to buyers and sellers of different nationalities, including deferred payment. To operate successfully, it needs to inspire confidence, to provide sufficient liquidity for fluctuating levels of trade, and to provide means by which global imbalances can be corrected. The system can grow organically as the collective result of numerous individual agreements between international economic factors spread over several decades. Alternatively, it can arise from a single architectural vision, as happened at Bretton Woods in 1944.\n\nThroughout history, precious metals such as gold and silver have been used for trade, sometimes in the form of bullion, and from early history the coins of various issuers – generally kingdoms and empires – have been traded. The earliest known records of pre-coinage use of precious metals for monetary exchange are from Mesopotamia and Egypt, dating from the third millennium BC. Early money took many forms, apart from bullion; for instance bronze spade money which became common in Zhou dynasty China in the late 7th century BC. At that time, forms of money were also developed in Lydia in Asia Minor, from where its use spread to nearby Greek cities and later to many other places.\n\nSometimes formal monetary systems have been imposed by regional rulers. For example, scholars have tentatively suggested that the Roman king Servius Tullius created a primitive monetary system in the early history of Rome. Tullius reigned in the sixth century BC - several centuries before Rome is believed to have developed a formal coinage system.\n\nAs with bullion, early use of coinage is believed to have been generally the preserve of the elite. But by about the 4th century BC coins were widely used in Greek cities. They were generally supported by the city state authorities, who endeavoured to ensure they retained their values regardless of fluctuations in the availability of whatever base or precious metals they were made from. From Greece the use of coins spread slowly westwards throughout Europe, and eastwards to India. Coins were in use in India from about 400 BC; initially they played a greater role in religion than in trade, but by the 2nd century they had become central to commercial transactions. Monetary systems that were developed in India were so successful that they spread through parts of Asia well into the Middle Ages.\n\nAs a variety of coins became common within a region, they were exchanged by moneychangers, the predecessors of today's foreign exchange market, as mentioned in the Biblical story of Jesus and the money changers. In Venice and the other Italian city states of the early Middle Ages, money changers would often have to struggle to perform calculations involving six or more currencies. This partly led to Fibonacci writing his Liber Abaci which popularised the use of Indo-Arabic numerals, which displaced the more difficult Roman numerals then in use by western merchants.\nWhen a given nation or empire has achieved regional hegemony, its currency has been a basis for international trade, and hence for a \"de facto\" monetary system. In the West – Europe and the Middle East – an early such coin was the Persian daric. This was succeeded by Roman currency of the Roman Empire, such as the denarius, then the Gold Dinar of the Ottoman Empire, and later – from the 16th to 20th centuries, during the Age of Imperialism – by the currency of European colonial powers: the Spanish dollar, the Dutch guilder, the French franc and the British pound sterling; at times one currency has been pre-eminent, at times no one dominated. With the growth of American power, the US dollar became the basis for the international monetary system, formalised in the Bretton Woods agreement that established the post–World War II monetary order, with fixed exchange rates of other currencies to the dollar, and convertibility of the dollar into gold. The Bretton Woods system broke down, culminating in the Nixon shock of 1971, ending convertibility; but the US dollar has remained the \"de facto\" basis of the world monetary system, though no longer \"de jure\", with various European currencies and the Japanese yen also being prominent in foreign exchange markets. Since the formation of the Euro, the Euro has also gained use as a reserve currency and a medium of transactions, though the dollar has remained the most important currency.\n\nA dominant currency may be used directly or indirectly by other nations: for example, English kings minted the gold mancus, presumably to function as dinars to exchange with Islamic Spain; colonial powers sometimes minted coins that resembled those already used in a distant territory; and more recently, a number of nations have used the US dollar as their local currency, a custom called dollarization.\n\nUntil the 19th century, the global monetary system was loosely linked at best, with Europe, the Americas, India and China (among others) having largely separate economies, and hence monetary systems were regional. European colonization of the Americas, starting with the Spanish empire, led to the integration of American and European economies and monetary systems, and European colonization of Asia led to the dominance of European currencies, notably the British pound sterling in the 19th century, succeeded by the US dollar in the 20th century. Some, such as Michael Hudson, foresee the decline of a single base for the global monetary system, and the emergence instead of regional trade blocs; he cites the emergence of the Euro as an example. See also Global financial systems, world-systems approach and polarity in international relations. It was in the later half of the 19th century that a monetary system with close to universal global participation emerged, based on the gold standard.\n\nFrom the 1816 to the outbreak of World War I in 1914, the world benefited from a well-integrated financial order, sometimes known as the \"first age of globalisation\".\n\nThere were monetary unions which enabled member countries to accept each others' currencies as legal tender. Such unions included the Latin Monetary Union (Belgium, Italy, Switzerland, France) and the Scandinavian monetary union (Denmark, Norway and Sweden). In the absence of shared membership of a union, transactions were facilitated by widespread participation in the gold standard, by both independent nations and their colonies. Great Britain was at the time the world's pre-eminent financial, imperial, and industrial power, ruling more of the world and exporting more capital as a percentage of her national income than any other creditor nation has since.\n\nWhile capital controls comparable to the Bretton Woods system were not in place, damaging capital flows were far less common than they were to be in the post 1971 era. In fact Great Britain's capital exports helped to correct global imbalances as they tended to be counter-cyclical, rising when Britain's economy went into recession, thus compensating other states for income lost from export of goods.\nAccordingly, this era saw mostly steady growth and a relatively low level of financial crises. In contrast to the Bretton Woods system, the pre–World War I financial order was not created at a single high level conference; rather it evolved organically in a series of discrete steps. The Gilded Age, a time of especially rapid development in North America, falls into this period.\n\nThe years between the world wars have been described as a period of \"de-globalisation\", as both international trade and capital flows shrank compared to the period before World War I. During World War I, countries had abandoned the gold standard. Except for the United States, they later returned to it only briefly. By the early 1930s, the prevailing order was essentially a fragmented system of floating exchange rates.\nIn this era, the experience of Great Britain and others was that the gold standard ran counter to the need to retain domestic policy autonomy. To protect their reserves of gold, countries would sometimes need to raise interest rates and generally follow a deflationary policy. The greatest need for this could arise in a downturn, just when leaders would have preferred to lower rates to encourage growth. Economist Nicholas Davenport\n\nhad even argued that the wish to return Britain to the gold standard \"sprang from a sadistic desire by the Bankers to inflict pain on the British working class.\"\n\nBy the end of World War I, Great Britain was heavily indebted to the United States, allowing the USA to largely displace it as the world's foremost financial power. The United States, however, was reluctant to assume Great Britain's leadership role, partly due to isolationist influences and a focus on domestic concerns. In contrast to Great Britain in the previous era, capital exports from the US were not countercyclical. They expanded rapidly with the United States' economic growth in the 1920s until 1928, but then almost completely halted as the US economy began slowing in that year. As the Great Depression intensified in 1930, financial institutions were hit hard along with trade; in 1930 alone, 1345 US banks collapsed.\nDuring the 1930s, the United States raised trade barriers, refused to act as an international lender of last resort, and refused calls to cancel war debts, all of which further aggravated economic hardship for other countries. According to economist John Maynard Keynes, another factor contributing to the turbulent economic performance of this era was the insistence of French premier Clemenceau that Germany pay war reparations at too high a level, which Keynes described in his book The Economic Consequences of the Peace.\n\nBritish and American policy makers began to plan the post-war international monetary system in the early 1940s. The objective was to create an order that combined the benefits of an integrated and relatively liberal international system with the freedom for governments to pursue domestic policies aimed at promoting full employment and social wellbeing.\nThe principal architects of the new system, John Maynard Keynes and Harry Dexter White, created a plan which was endorsed by the 42 countries attending the 1944 Bretton Woods conference, formally known as the United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference. The plan involved nations agreeing to a system of fixed but adjustable exchange rates so that the currencies were pegged against the dollar, with the dollar itself convertible into gold. So in effect this was a gold – dollar exchange standard. There were a number of improvements on the old gold standard. Two international institutions, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank were created. A key part of their function was to replace private finance as a more reliable source of lending for investment projects in developing states. At the time the soon to be defeated powers of Germany and Japan were envisaged as states soon to be in need of such development, and there was a desire from both the US and Britain not to see the defeated powers saddled with punitive sanctions that would inflict lasting pain on future generations. The new exchange rate system allowed countries facing economic hardship to devalue their currencies by up to 10% against the dollar (more if approved by the IMF) – thus they would not be forced to undergo deflation to stay in the gold standard. A system of capital controls was introduced to protect countries from the damaging effects of capital flight and to allow countries to pursue independent macro economic policies\n\nwhile still welcoming flows intended for productive investment. Keynes had argued against the dollar having such a central role in the monetary system, and suggested an international currency called bancor be used instead, but he was overruled by the Americans. Towards the end of the Bretton Woods era, the central role of the dollar became a problem as international demand eventually forced the US to run a persistent trade deficit, which undermined confidence in the dollar. This, together with the emergence of a parallel market for gold in which the price soared above the official US mandated price, led to speculators running down the US gold reserves. Even when convertibility was restricted to nations only, some, notably France, continued building up hoards of gold at the expense of the US. Eventually these pressures caused President Nixon to end all convertibility into gold on 15 August 1973. This event marked the effective end of the Bretton Woods system; attempts were made to find other mechanisms to preserve the fixed exchange rates over the next few years, but they were not successful, resulting in a system of floating exchange rates.\n\nAn alternative name for the post Bretton Woods system is the Washington Consensus. While the name was coined in 1989, the associated economic system came into effect years earlier: according to economic historian Lord Skidelsky the \"Washington Consensus\" is generally seen as spanning 1980–2009 (the latter half of the 1970s being a transitional period). \nThe transition away from Bretton Woods was marked by a switch from a state led to a market led system. The Bretton Wood system is considered by economic historians to have broken down in the 1970s: crucial events being Nixon suspending the dollar's convertibility into gold in 1973, the United States' abandonment of capital controls in 1974, and the UK's ending of capital controls in 1979 which was swiftly copied by most other major economies.\n\nIn some parts of the developing world, liberalisation brought significant benefits for large sections of the population – most prominently with Deng Xiaoping's reforms in China since 1978 and the liberalisation of India after its 1991 crisis.\n\nGenerally the industrial nations experienced much slower growth and higher unemployment than in the previous era, and according to Professor Gordon Fletcher in retrospect the 1950s and 60s when the Bretton Woods system was operating came to be seen as a golden age.\n\nFinancial crises have been more intense and have increased in frequency by about 300% – with the damaging effects prior to 2008 being chiefly felt in the emerging economies. On the positive side, at least until 2008 investors have frequently achieved very high rates of return, with salaries and bonuses in the financial sector reaching record levels.\n\nFrom 2004, economists such as Michael P. Dooley, Peter M. Garber, and David Folkerts-Landau began writing papers describing the emergence of a new international system involving an interdependency between states with generally high savings in Asia lending and exporting to western states with generally high spending. Similar to the original \"Bretton Woods\", this included Asian currencies being pegged to the dollar, though this time by the unilateral intervention of Asian governments in the currency market to stop their currencies appreciating. The developing world as a whole stopped running current account deficits in 1999\n– widely seen as a response to unsympathetic treatment following the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis. The most striking example of east-west interdependency is the relationship between China and America, which Niall Ferguson calls Chimerica. From 2004, This supposed \"New Bretton Woods\", as a \"fiction\", and called for the elimination of the structural imbalances that underlie it, viz, the chronic US current account deficit.\n\nHowever, since at least 2007 those authors have also called for a new \"de jure\" system: for key international financial institutions like the IMF and World Bank to be revamped to meet the demands of the current age, \nand between 2008 and mid-2009 the term \"New Bretton Woods\" was increasingly used in the latter sense. By late 2009, with less emphases on structural reform to the international monetary system and more attention being paid to issues such as re-balancing the world economy.\n\nSince 2011, Sanjeev Sanyal, a colleague of Dooley, Garber and Folkerts-Landau has taken the framework a step further to argue that periods of global economic expansions are almost always underpinned by symbiotic imbalances. Such imbalances cause distortions but are an inevitable part of expanding economic ecosystems. Thus, he argues that the next round of economic growth will again be underpinned by a return to global imbalances, probably with China supplying capital and the US again running deficits to absorb it. He names this relationship Bretton Woods III.\n\nLeading financial journalist Martin Wolf has reported that all financial crises since 1971 have been preceded by large capital inflows into affected regions. While ever since the seventies there have been numerous calls from the global justice movement for a revamped international system to tackle the problem of unfettered capital flows, it was not until late 2008 that this idea began to receive substantial support from leading politicians. On September 26, 2008, French President Nicolas Sarkozy, then also the President of the European Union, said, \"We must rethink the financial system from scratch, as at Bretton Woods.\"\n\nOn October 13, 2008, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown\nsaid world leaders must meet to agree to a new economic system: \nHowever, Brown's approach was quite different from the original Bretton Woods system, emphasising the continuation of globalization and free trade as opposed to a return to fixed exchange rates.\nThere were tensions between Brown and Sarkozy, who argued that the \"Anglo-Saxon\" model of unrestrained markets had failed.\nHowever European leaders were united in calling for a \"Bretton Woods II\" summit to redesign the world's financial architecture.\nPresident Bush was agreeable to the calls, and the resulting meeting was the 2008 G-20 Washington summit. International agreement was achieved for the common adoption of Keynesian fiscal stimulus, an area where the US and China were to emerge as the world's leading actors.\nYet there was no substantial progress towards reforming the international financial system, and nor was there at the 2009 meeting of the World Economic Forum at Davos \nDespite this lack of results leaders continued to campaign for \"Bretton Woods II\". Italian Economics Minister Giulio Tremonti said that Italy would use its 2009 G7 chairmanship to push for a \"New Bretton Woods.\" He had been critical of the U.S.'s response to the global financial crisis of 2008, and had suggested that the dollar may be superseded as the base currency of the Bretton Woods system.\n\nChoike, a portal organisation representing Southern Hemisphere NGOs, called for the establishment of \"international permanent and binding mechanisms of control over capital flows\" and as of March 2009 had achieved over 550 signatories from civil society organisations.\nMarch 2009 saw Gordon Brown continuing to advocate for reform and the granting of extended powers to international financial institutions like the IMF at the April G20 summit in London,\nAlso during March 2009, in a speech entitled \"Reform the International Monetary System\", Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China came out in favour of Keynes's idea of a centrally managed global reserve currency. Dr Zhou argued that it was unfortunate that part of the reason for the Bretton Woods system breaking down was the failure to adopt Keynes's bancor. Dr Zhou said that national currencies were unsuitable for use as global reserve currencies as a result of the Triffin dilemma – the difficulty faced by reserve currency issuers in trying to simultaneously achieve their domestic monetary policy goals and meet other countries' demand for reserve currency. Dr Zhou proposed a gradual move towards increased use of IMF special drawing rights (SDRs) as a centrally managed global reserve currency \nHis proposal attracted much international attention. In a November 2009 article published in Foreign Affairs magazine, economist C. Fred Bergsten argued that Dr Zhou's suggestion or a similar change to the international monetary system would be in the United States' best interests as well as the rest of the world's.\n\nLeaders meeting in April at the 2009 G-20 London summit agreed to allow $250 Billion of SDRs to be created by the IMF, to be distributed to all IMF members according to each countries voting rights. In the aftermath of the summit, Gordon Brown declared \"the Washington Consensus is over\". However, in a published during September 2009, Professor Robert Skidelsky, an international expert on Keynesianism, argued it was still too early to say whether a new international monetary system was emerging.\n\nOn Jan 27, in his opening address to the 2010 World Economic Forum in Davos, President Sarkozy repeated his call for a new Bretton Woods, and was met by wild applause by a sizeable proportion of the audience.\n\nIn December 2011, the Bank of England published a paper arguing for reform, saying that the current International monetary system has performed poorly compared to the \"Bretton Woods system\". \nIn August 2012 in an \"International Herald Tribune\" op-ed, Harvard University professor and director of the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation Hal S. Scott called for a global response to the Euro-zone crisis. He wrote that two failures to address European problems around German power had led to world wars in the 20th century and that the current crisis was also beyond the capacity of Europe, with Germany again at the center, to solve on their own. Accepting that leadership transitions were underway in both China and America, Scott called on all concerned—with Japan included with China and America—to begin organizing a global restructuring through the International Monetary Fund with possibly a Bretton Woods II conference as part of the process.\n\"MarketWatch\" commentator Darrell Delamaide endorsed Scott's idea but concluded \"unfortunately it’s not likely to happen\". He added first the example of the failure of Europe to address successfully the breakup of Yugoslavia without outside assistance as a reason for his endorsement. But he found U.S. presidential and Treasury Department leadership and IMF leadership dramatically lacking in the capacity to mount an initiative such as Scott proposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "9245257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9245257", "title": "John Fare", "text": "John Fare\n\nJohn Fare (sometimes John Charles Fare or John Fahey or John Faré) is a fictional performance artist who allegedly used robotic surgery to remove parts of his body onstage as part of his act. His final performance was allegedly suicide by beheading. The story originated in 1968 and is generally considered an urban legend.\n\nThe original version was \"The Hand\" by N.B. Shein, published in \"Insect Trust Gazette\" in 1968. In November 1972, Tim Craig published a plagiarized and embellished version of Shein's original story in reply to a letter to the editor of \"Studio International\". The reader was inquiring about an artist named Fahey who ended his career by having his head amputated onstage.\n\nIn Craig's embellished and plagiarized version of Shein's original, John Charles Fare was born in 1936 in Toronto and attended Forest Hill College. In 1959 he moved to London to study architecture at the Bartlett School of Architecture, but soon left to live in Copenhagen. He was briefly held in a mental health facility for exposing himself in public at performances. After his release, he was re-arrested for gluing objects to a car. The car's owner, musician and inventor Golni Czervath, did not press charges and befriended Fare. The two developed a robotic operating table with painter Gilbert Andoff. The first performance was a lobotomy on Fare in June 1964. All performances were performed on a Friday. By the time Fare performed at the Isaacs Gallery in Toronto on 17 September 1968, he \"was short one thumb, two fingers, eight toes, one eye, both testicles, and several random patches of skin.\" The amputated parts were preserved in alcohol. That evening, he had his right hand amputated. Fare's body was fitted with small microphones, which transmitted his pulse and breathing frequency in a distorted fashion. Craig said Fare had performed six more shows between 1968 and 1972.\n\nIn 1985 Danny Devos wrote to Isaacs Gallery founder Avrom Isaacs enquiring about John Fare and his supposed performance in 1968. The response included a statement in writing that the story of John Fare \"has no factual basis,\" adding \"there was no such person as John Fare as far as I know.\"\n\nThe story was reprinted in a fanzine made in collaboration with the band Coil in 1987. That publication included more correspondence with Isaacs, who said, \"I know of no such person as John Fare. In the sixties I had a series of mixed media concerts in my gallery, and out of this came the myth of John Fare. Every five years or so, someone rediscovers the myth and writes me a letter such as yours.\" Fare's alleged performance was emulated during a Nocturnal Emissions concert in London in 1997. Writing about the event, a British music journalist recounts: \"Fare cuts an eccentric figure. He wears trousers made from zips and has a diagram of a brain tattooed onto his shaven scalp. The performance artist placed his left hand on a chopping board with the fingers spread. Fare’s assistant, Jill Orr, is partially sighted and she slammed an axe between her boyfriend’s pinkies with increasing speed. Eventually the axe severed Fare’s little finger. This was the end of the performance art element within the evening’s entertainment\". Fare has been mentioned in connection with body art, industrial culture, and the practices of Rudolf Schwarzkogler and Bob Flanagan, and, like other performance artists, has been seen as a successor of the Christian martyrs. He has also been mentioned in the \"Guardian\" in connection with the German artist Gregor Schneider Critic Audrone Zukauskaite examined the durability of this legend in \"Art Lies\" magazine. Artists Gabriel Lester, Mariana Castillo Deball, \"the estate of John Fare,\" René Gabri, Mario Garcia Torres, and Juozas Laivys explored themes of the story in a 2007 Gallery GB Agency exhibit in France. While Lester acknowledged Fare was \"an apparition, an artist thought to have existed,\" he said Fare embodied the culmination of romantic myth of the artist cursed, \"someone who has probably never existed, and yet lives forever.\"\nChristopher Priest wrote the short story \"The Head and the Hand\" with a similar plot in 1972.\n"}
{"id": "479464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479464", "title": "Lianne Dalziel", "text": "Lianne Dalziel\n\nLianne Audrey Dalziel (; born 7 June 1960) is the Mayor of Christchurch. Prior to this position, she was a member of the New Zealand Parliament for 23 years, serving as Minister of Immigration, Commerce, Minister of Food Safety and Associate Minister of Justice in the Fifth Labour Government. She resigned from Cabinet on 20 February 2004 after apparently lying about a leak of documents to the media, but was reinstated as a Minister following Labour's return to office after the 2005 election. She resigned from Parliament effective 11 October 2013 to contest the Christchurch mayoral election. The incumbent, Bob Parker, decided not to stand again, and she was widely regarded as the top favourite and won with a wide margin to become the 46th Mayor of Christchurch.\n\nDalziel was born in 1960 raised in Christchurch, and attended Canterbury University. She graduated with a law degree and was admitted to the Bar. She served as the legal officer for the Canterbury Hotel and Hospital Workers' Union, and later became the union's Secretary. She also participated in national groups such as the Federation of Labour and the New Zealand Council of Trade Unions.\n\nDalziel entered Parliament as a Labour Party MP for Christchurch Central in 1990, replacing outgoing former Prime Minister Geoffrey Palmer. She held this seat until the 1996 election (being replaced by Tim Barnett), when she became a list MP under the new MMP electoral system. In the 1999 election, she chose to contest an electorate again, and won the Christchurch East seat. She held the seat in the 2002, 2005, 2008 and 2011 elections. In 2011 she opted not to go on the Labour list.\n\n\"Time\" magazine picked her as a future leader in its December 1994 edition.\n\nIn the new government formed by Labour, Dalziel became Minister of Immigration, Minister for Senior Citizens, and Minister for Disability Issues. When Labour won re-election in the 2002 election, Dalziel also became Minister of Commerce (while ceasing to be Minister for Disability Issues). In 2003, she ceased to be Minister for Senior Citizens. As Minister of Immigration, Dalziel was often in the spotlight. In particular, she often clashed with Winston Peters, leader of the anti-immigration New Zealand First party.\n\nAfter the 2005 election, Dalziel was re-elected by her caucus colleagues to Cabinet and was given the portfolios of Commerce, Small Business, and Women's Affairs.\n\nMike Williams, President of the Labour Party from 2000 to 2009, states that he was surprised by Clark appointing Dalziel Minister of Commerce and thought of it as an \"odd choice\". But she worked herself into the portfolio, paid attention to detail, and within a year had \"proved herself\". Williams believes this is due to her high intelligence and her ability to listen. Tim Barnett, MP for Christchurch Central from 1996 to 2008, and today General Secretary of the Labour Party (equivalent to CEO), credits her training as a lawyer and \"having a bigger brain than most of us\" for her success. Williams states that as Minister of Commerce, Dalziel worked closely with National's Simon Power and built \"cross-party unity on various issues\".\n\nDalziel's position became difficult after she was accused of giving certain documents to the press to bolster the case for a decision her Associate Minister had made. The decision, concerning the deportation of a Sri Lankan teenager who was seeking asylum but who had originally lied about the reasons, was controversial, and Dalziel leaked the notes of the teenager's lawyer to TV3, attempting to discredit the teenager's case for asylum. Dalziel tried to avoid admitting to being the source of the documents, but was forced to admit that the leak had been at her direction. There was also significant controversy about how Dalziel had obtained the documents in the first place. Dalziel offered her resignation which Prime Minister Helen Clark accepted.\n\nAfter Labour was defeated in the 2008 general election, Dalziel became the Opposition spokesperson on Justice and Commerce and, from 2011, the spokesperson for the Christchurch Earthquake Recovery, Civil Defence & Emergence Management, Consumer Rights & Standards, and associate spokesperson for Justice.\n\nRumours of Dalziel standing as Mayor of Christchurch go back to at least 2009. Since the February 2011 earthquake, the rumours that Dalziel would contest the 2013 Christchurch mayoralty became more consistent. In May 2012, Dalziel tried to put an end to these rumours by announcing: \"The job I really want is Gerry Brownlee's, rather than Bob Parker's.\" Brownlee is Earthquake Recovery Minister, and Parker was the Mayor of Christchurch at the time. In the February 2013 reshuffle of opposition portfolios, Dalziel dropped out of the top 20 (only the first 20 positions are ranked by the Labour Party). An editorial in \"The Press\" presumed that her strong support for David Cunliffe was part of the reason for her demotion. The editorial also speculated that she might reconsider her political future:\n\nThe demotion is bound to concentrate Dalziel's mind on whether she should run for the Christchurch mayoralty. As things stand, a place for her in a Labour cabinet as minister for the earthquake recovery looks unlikely, but she would be a strong candidate for mayor.\n\nFollowing months of speculation, \"The Press\" reported on 20 April 2013 that Lianne Dalziel would challenge Parker for the mayoralty, and that she had asked 24-year-old Student Volunteer Army organiser Sam Johnson to be her running mate, with a view of Johnson becoming deputy mayor. The newspaper expressed surprise by this pairing, given that Dalziel was a Labour Party member, and Johnson a member of the Young Nats, the youth arm of the National Party. Saying that: \"It was a really difficult decision to make, but I don't think it is the right thing for me right now\", Johnson eventually decided against running. On 19 June, Dalziel formally confirmed that she would contest the mayoralty, also announcing that she would resign from Parliament, which would trigger a by-election in the Christchurch East electorate. Dalziel delivered her resignation letter on 17 September and delivered her valedictory speech the following day with her resignation taking effect on Friday, 11 October; the day before the local body election so that the by-election campaign did not interfere with the local body election. In a later interview, Dalziel confirmed that she would have left Parliament even if Shearer had put her onto the front bench.\n\nAlthough some expressed concerns about Dalziel's Labour Party background, including central city property developer Antony Gough, who talked of her \"red apron strings\" getting in the way of working with local business owners, she also nevertheless open support from the political right for her mayoral ambitions: Christchurch City Councillor Tim Carter, son of Christchurch property developer Philip Carter and nephew of Speaker David Carter, encouraged her to stand for the mayoralty; former National Party cabinet minister Philip Burdon was one of her nominees when she lodged her nomination for the mayoralty with the returning officer; and blogger Cameron Slater, by many considered a \"conduit for factions of the National Party\" wrote:\n\nChristchurch needs a uniter, not a divider, and the word is that National would far rather deal with Lianne and the competent councillors she is bringing with her than Bob Parker.\n\nDalziel's Earthquake Recovery portfolio in Labour's shadow cabinet was split and given to Ruth Dyson and Clayton Cosgrove.\n\nDalziel was elected Mayor of Christchurch in the October 2013 mayoral election, with a margin of almost 50,000 votes over the next candidate, businessman Paul Lonsdale. She was sworn in on 24 October, with a past mayor, Vicki Buck as her deputy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "201912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201912", "title": "List of spaceflight-related accidents and incidents", "text": "List of spaceflight-related accidents and incidents\n\nThis article lists verifiable spaceflight-related accidents and incidents resulting in fatality or near-fatality during flight or training for manned space missions, and testing, assembly, preparation or flight of manned and unmanned spacecraft. Not included are accidents or incidents associated with intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) tests, unmanned space flights not resulting in fatality or serious injury, or Soviet or German rocket-powered aircraft projects of World War II. Also not included are alleged unreported Soviet space accidents, which are considered fringe theories by a majority of historians.\n\n, there have been 18 astronaut and cosmonaut fatalities during spaceflight. Astronauts have also died while training for space missions, such as the Apollo 1 launch pad fire which killed an entire crew of three. There have also been some non-astronaut fatalities during spaceflight-related activities.\n\n, in-flight accidents have killed 18 astronauts, in four separate incidents.\n\nNASA astronauts who died on duty are memorialized at the Space Mirror Memorial at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex in Merritt Island, Florida. Cosmonauts who died on duty under the Soviet Union were generally honored by burial at the Kremlin Wall Necropolis in Moscow. No Soviet or Russian cosmonauts have died during spaceflight since 1971.\n\nThere have been a total of five fatal in-flight accidents, three of them flew above the Kármán line, and one was intended to do so. In each case, the entire crew was killed.\n\nIn addition to accidents during spaceflights, 13 astronauts, test pilots, and other personnel have been killed during training and test flights.\n\nApart from actual disasters, a number of missions resulted in some very near misses and also some training accidents that nearly resulted in deaths.\n\nSpaceflight-related accidents and incidents during assembly, testing, and preparation for flight of manned and unmanned spacecraft have occasionally resulted in injuries or the loss of craft since the earliest days of space programs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis list excludes deaths caused by military operations, either by deliberate detonations, or accidental during production - for example German V-2 rockets reportedly caused on average an estimated 6 deaths per operational rocket just during its production stages.\n\n\nBooks and journals\n\nOther online sources\n\n"}
{"id": "5447623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447623", "title": "Matthew 27:60", "text": "Matthew 27:60\n\nMatthew 27:60 is the sixtieth verse of the twenty-seventh chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. This verse describes the Entombment of Jesus by Joseph of Arimathea after the crucifixion.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible it is translated as:\n\nThe modern World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibRef Matthew 27:60\n\nJoseph of Arimathea places Jesus in his own new tomb, a sign of great loyalty by Joseph. This verse is based on , and is paralleled by and . Matthew is the only gospel writer to mention that it was Joseph's own tomb that Jesus was placed. Typically wealthy residents of Jerusalem would have a large family tomb, with space for many burials. The new tomb implies that no one has yet been entombed there, something made explicit in both Luke and John. Mentioning the newness, and emptiness, of the tomb may also be part of the body of evidence Matthew presents for the truth of the resurrection. A new tomb with only one body would prevent any confusion. Davies and Allison note that reference to the newness of the tomb might also be an allusion to the newness that emerges from it with the resurrection. The newness of the tomb may also reflect that Joseph's wealth is new found, or that his family is newly arrived in Jerusalem. This could explain why he has a tomb in Jerusalem rather than his native Arimathea.\n\nThe description of the rock hewn tomb is fully in keeping with archeological evidence from the period. Jerusalem was surrounded by soft limestone rock that was perforated by natural and artificial caves, creating a giant natural cemetery. The door also matches examples from this period. Most tombs would have a smaller stone able to keep out animals. More expensive tombs would have a stone large enough to keep out grave robbers. This and other verses make clear that a larger stone is in place. \n\nJoseph departs, not to be seen again in Matthew's narrative. Davies and Allison note that Matthew frequently treats his minor characters in this manner, giving no unnecessary details. Joseph leaving is in the next verses contrasted with the women who remain and the guards who later arrive. His departure is not mentioned in any of the other gospels, but Matthew adds the story of the guards arriving, so that could explain adding a mention of Joseph leaving.\n"}
{"id": "38861905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38861905", "title": "Metal Open Air", "text": "Metal Open Air\n\nMetal Open Air (also known simply as MOA) was an unsuccessful 2012 heavy metal festival. It took place between 20–22 April, at the Parque Independência, 25 km southeast from downtown São Luís, Maranhão, northeastern Brazil. Due to problems with the payment of artists and the accommodation and security of the audience, the festival was ultimately cancelled on its last day.\n\nOriginally, it was supposed to be a Brazilian version of the famous German Wacken Open Air. However, the promoters failed to obtain official permission to use the name, so they decided to switch it for Metal Open Air. From that moment on, several bands, including Shaman, Megadeth, Symphony X and Anthrax, started to confirm their performances, though a few have cancelled, including Shadowside, Krisiun, and Volbeat, mostly for logistical reasons.\n\nBy February/March 2012, the official announced line-up was as follows (act names in bold are headliners; El Diablo is an entertainment group that prepared rock night parties after every headliner performance):\n\nThe headliners of the second day, the Rock and Roll All Stars, were a supergroup composed of Gene Simmons, Joe Elliott, Matt Sorum, Duff McKagan , Gilby Clarke, Glenn Hughes, Ed Roland, Sebastian Bach, Steve Stevens, Mike Inez, Billy Duffy and Charlie Sheen, who was to be the festival's master of ceremonies.\n\nShortly before and even during the festival, several bands cancelled their performances. British thrash band Venom, for example, had their visas sent to Africa instead of Brazil by mistake, thus making it impossible for them to take part of MOA and two other South American festivals. Hansi Kürsch, vocalist for German power metal quartet Blind Guardian, stated:\n\nAquiles Priester, from Hangar, also cancelled his band's participation, stating:\n\nTerra Prima's members didn't receive their air tickets to São Luís nor the confirmation of their accommodations in the city.\n\nSymphony X, one of the few bands that managed to take on the stage and perform, posted a note some days later, thanking their fans for the show and criticizing the event's structure:\n\nDave Mustaine, from Megadeth, also thanked his fans and regretted the festival's organization:\n\nRicardo Confessori, drummer for Shaman, publicly contested Anthrax guitarist Scott Ian for canceling the band's performance at the festival, accusing him of not giving a good excuse for the fans, to which Ian replied that the problem was \"the whole terrible organization. We never want to cancel but they made it impossible.\"\n\nIn the end, a total of 30 of the 47 invited bands cancelled their performances due to the severe logistical, structural and financial problems regarding the festival. As for the fans, some had to camp inside stables, with almost no electricity, lack of places to buy food, beverage and hygiene products and only one public toilet.\n\nSoon after MOA was cancelled, both companies responsible for the festival (Negri Concerts and Lamparina Filmes e Produções) accused each other of breaking contractual rules.\n"}
{"id": "14938899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14938899", "title": "National Youth Day (India)", "text": "National Youth Day (India)\n\nNational Youth Day is celebrated in India on 12 January on the birthday of Swami Vivekananda. In 1984 the Government of India declared the day as the National Youth Day and since 1985 the event is celebrated in India every year.\n\nIt was a great decision of Government of India taken in the year, 1984 to celebrate the birthday of great Swami Vivekananda i.e. 12th January as a National Youth Day every year. As the Government of India had quoted and realized that ' the philosophy of Swamiji and the ideals for which he lived and worked could be a great source of inspiration for the Indian Youth.'\n\nOn 12 January 2013, Former Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh told in his address at the inauguration of four-year-long celebrations of Swami Vivekananda's 150th birth anniversary— \nWhat Gandhiji said captures the great importance of spreading Swami Vivekananda's ideas and ideals among the youth in our country today. He personified the eternal energy of the youth and their restless quest for truth. It is entirely fitting that the Government of India has declared 12th January, the birthday of Swami Vivekananda, as National Youth Day. We must work to rekindle the eternal message of this great patriot and son of India.\n\nThe National Youth Day is observed all over India at schools and colleges, with processions, speeches, recitations, music, youth conventions, seminars, Yogasanas, presentations, competitions in essay-writing, recitations and sports on 12 January every year. Swami Vivekananda's lectures and writings, deriving their inspiration from Indian spiritual tradition and the broad outlook of his Master Sri Ramakrishna Paramahansa, are the source of inspiration and have motivated numerous youth organizations, study circles and service projects involving the youth.\n\n"}
{"id": "54647419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54647419", "title": "Newborn care and safety", "text": "Newborn care and safety\n\nNewborn care and safety are the activities and precautions recommended for new parents or caregivers. It is also an educational goal of many hospital and birthing centers when it's time to bring their infant home.\n\nTaking a newborn care class during pregnancy can prepare caregivers for the real thing. But feeding and diapering a baby doll isn't quite the same. During the stay in a hospital or birthing center, clinicians and nurses help with basic baby care. These health providers will demonstrate basic infant care. Newborn care basics include:\n\n\nBefore leaving the hospital, ask about home visits by a nurse or health care worker. Many new parents appreciate somebody checking in with them and their baby a few days after coming home. If breastfeeding, a mother can ask whether a lactation consultant visit in the home to provide follow-up support, as well as providing other resources in the community, such as peer support groups.\n\nMany first-time parents also welcome the help of a family member or friend who has \"been there.\" Having a support person stay with the newborn for a few days can give the mother the confidence to go at it alone in the weeks ahead. This can be to arranged before delivery.\n\nThe baby's first doctor's visit is another good time to ask about any infant care questions. Parents can ask about reasons to call the doctor and about what vaccines baby needs and when. Young children need vaccines because the diseases they protect against can strike at an early age and can be very dangerous in childhood. This includes rare diseases and more common ones, such as the flu.\n\nCaring for a newborn also includes the health screening of the newborn, most of the times this occurs in the hospital or pediatrician's office shortly after birth. Every state screens babies for more than two dozen disorders. Early detection can help treat the disorder.\n\nHandwashing helps to prevent the spread of foodborne illnesses to children. Pathogenic microorganisms can be transmitted from other children and their diapers, and from uncooked meat, seafood, eggs, dogs, cats, turtles, snakes, birds, lizards, and soil.\n\nSince 1992, the American Academy of Pediatrics has recommended that infants be placed to sleep on their backs to reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), also called crib death. SIDS is the sudden and unexplained death of a baby under 1 year of age. Even though there is no way to know which babies might die of SIDS, recommendations include:\n\nSome mothers worry if the baby rolls over during the night. However, by the time the baby is able to roll over by herself, the risk for SIDS is much lower. During the time of greatest risk, 2 to 4 months of age, most babies are not able to turn over from their backs to their stomachs.\n\nNewborns and older infants are to use rear-facing car seats. These are required until age 2 or when they reach the upper weight or height limit of that seat. After this, a forward-facing car seat is used. Motor vehicle crashes are a leading cause of death for children in the US. Buckling up is the best way to save lives and reduce injuries. Child passenger restraint laws result in more children being buckled up. Only 2 out of every 100 children live in states that require car seat or booster seat use for newborns and infants. A third of children who died in crashes in 2011 were not buckled up. Caregivers promote the safety their newborns by: Knowing how to use car seats, booster seats, and seat belts and using them on every trip, no matter how short.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26370879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26370879", "title": "News International phone hacking scandal", "text": "News International phone hacking scandal\n\nThe News International phone-hacking scandal was a controversy involving the now defunct \"News of the World\" and other British newspapers published by News International, a subsidiary of News Corporation. Employees of the newspaper were accused of engaging in phone hacking, police bribery, and exercising improper influence in the pursuit of stories. Whilst investigations conducted from 2005 to 2007 appeared to show that the paper's phone hacking activities were limited to celebrities, politicians, and members of the British Royal Family, in July 2011 it was revealed that the phones of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler, relatives of deceased British soldiers, and victims of the 7 July 2005 London bombings had also been hacked. The resulting public outcry against News Corporation and its owner Rupert Murdoch led to several high-profile resignations, including that of Murdoch as News Corporation director, Murdoch's son James as executive chairman, Dow Jones chief executive Les Hinton, News International legal manager Tom Crone, and chief executive Rebekah Brooks. The commissioner of London's Metropolitan Police Service (MPS), Sir Paul Stephenson, also resigned. Advertiser boycotts led to the closure of the \"News of the World\" on 10 July 2011, after 168 years of publication. Public pressure shortly forced News Corporation to cancel its proposed takeover of the British satellite broadcaster BSkyB.\n\nThe prime minister David Cameron announced on 6 July 2011 that a public inquiry, known as the Leveson Inquiry, would look into phone hacking and police bribery by the \"News of the World\", consider the wider culture and ethics of the British newspaper industry and that the Press Complaints Commission would be replaced \"entirely\". A number of arrests and convictions followed, most notably of the former \"News of the World\" managing editor Andy Coulson.\n\nMurdoch and his son, James, were summoned to give evidence at the Leveson Inquiry. Over the course of his testimony, Rupert Murdoch admitted that a cover-up had taken place within the \"News of the World\" to hide the scope of the phone hacking. On 1 May 2012, a parliamentary select committee report concluded that Murdoch \"exhibited wilful blindness to what was going on in his companies and publications\" and stated that he was \"not a fit person to exercise the stewardship of a major international company\". On 3 July 2013, Channel 4 News broadcast a secret tape in which Murdoch dismissively claims that investigators were \"totally incompetent\" and acted over \"next to nothing\" and excuses his papers' actions as \"part of the culture of Fleet Street\".\n\nBy 2002, an organised trade in confidential personal information had developed in Britain and was widely used by the British newspaper industry. Illegal means of gaining information used included hacking the private voicemail accounts on mobile phones, hacking into computers, making false statements to officials, entrapment, blackmail, burglaries, theft of mobile phones and making payments to public officials.\n\nPrivate investigators who were illegally providing information to the \"News of the World\" were also engaged in a variety of other illegal activities. Between 1999 and 2003, several were convicted for crimes including drug distribution, the theft of drugs, child pornography, planting evidence, corruption, and perverting the course of justice. Jonathan Rees and his partner Sid Fillery, a former police officer, were also under suspicion for the murder of private investigator Daniel Morgan. The MPS undertook an investigation of Rees, entitled Operation Nigeria, and tapped his telephone. Substantial evidence was accumulated that Rees was purchasing information from improper sources and that, amongst others, Alex Marunchak of the \"News of the World\" was paying him up to £150,000 a year for doing so. Jonathan Rees reportedly bought information from former and serving police officers, Customs officers, a VAT inspector, bank employees, burglars, and from blaggers who would telephone the Inland Revenue, the DVLA, banks and phone companies, and deceive them into releasing confidential information. Rees then sold the information to the \"News of the World\", the \"Daily Mirror\", the \"Sunday Mirror\" and the \"Sunday Times\".\n\nThe Operation Nigeria bugging ended in September 1999 and Rees was arrested when he was heard planning to plant drugs on a woman so that her husband could win custody of their child. Rees was convicted in 2000 and served a five-year prison sentence. Other individuals associated with Rees who were taped during Operation Nigeria, including Detective Constable Austin Warnes, former detective Duncan Hanrahan, former Detective Constable Martin King and former Detective Constable Tom Kingston, were prosecuted and jailed for various offences unrelated to phone hacking.\n\nIn June 2002, Fillery had reportedly used his relationship with Alex Marunchak to arrange for private investigator Glenn Mulcaire, then doing work for \"News of the World\", to obtain confidential information about Detective Chief Superintendent David Cook, one of the police officers investigating the murder of Daniel Morgan. Mulcaire obtained Cook's home address, his internal Metropolitan police payroll number, his date of birth and figures for his mortgage payments as well as physically following him and his family. Attempts to access Cook's voicemail and that of his wife, and possibly hack his computer and intercept his post were also suspected. Documents reportedly held by Scotland Yard show that \"Mulcaire did this on the instructions of Greg Miskiw, assistant editor at \"News of the World\" and a close friend of Marunchak.\" The Metropolitan Police Service handled this apparent attempt by agents of the \"News of the World\" to interfere with a murder inquiry by having informal discussions with Rebekah Brooks, then editor for the newspaper. \"Scotland Yard took no further action, apparently reflecting the desire of Dick Fedorcio, Director of Public Affairs and Internal Communication for the Met who had a close working relationship with Brooks, to avoid unnecessary friction with the newspaper.\"\n\nNo one was charged with illegal acquisition of confidential information as a result of Operation Nigeria, even though the Met reportedly collected hundreds of thousands of incriminating documents during the investigation into Jonathan Rees and his links with corrupt officers. Fillery was convicted for child pornography offences in 2003. Upon Rees' release from prison in 2005, he immediately resumed his investigative work for the \"News of the World\", where Andy Coulson had succeeded Rebekah Brooks as editor.\n\nIn 2002, under the title Operation Motorman, the Information Commissioner's Office, raided the offices of various newspaper and private investigators, looking for details of personal information kept on unregistered computer databases. The operation uncovered numerous invoices addressed to newspapers and magazines, which detailed prices for the provision of personal information. 305 journalists, working for at least 30 publications, were identified as purchasing confidential information from private investigators. The ICO raided a private investigator named John Boyall, whose specialty was acquiring information from confidential databases. Glenn Mulcaire had been Boyall's assistant, until the autumn of 2001 when the \"News of the World's\" assistant editor, Greg Miskiw gave him a full-time contract to do work for the newspaper. When the ICO raided Boyall's premises in November 2002 they seized documents that led them to the premises of another private investigator, Steve Whittamore. There they found \"more than 13,000 requests for confidential information from newspapers and magazines.\" This established that confidential information was illegally acquired from telephone companies, the Driver & Vehicle Licensing Agency and the Police National Computer. \"Media, especially newspapers, insurance companies and local authorities chasing council tax arrears all appear in the sales ledger\" of the agency. Whittamore's network gave him access to confidential records at telephone companies, banks, post offices, hotels, theatres, and prisons, including BT Group, Crédit Lyonnais, Goldman Sachs, Hang Seng Bank, Glen Parva prison, and Stocken prison.\n\nAlthough the ICO issued two reports, \"What price privacy?\" in May 2006 and \"What price privacy now?\" in December 2006, much of the information obtained through Operation Motorman was not made public. Although there was evidence of many people being engaged in illegal activity, relatively few were questioned. Operation Motorman's lead investigator said in 2006 that \"his team were told not to interview journalists involved. The investigator...accused authorities of being too 'frightened' to tackle journalists.\" The newspaper with the highest number of requests was the \"Daily Mail\" with 952 transactions by 58 journalists; the \"News of the World\" came fifth in the table, with 182 transactions from 19 journalists. The \"Daily Mail\" rejected the accusations within the report insisting it only used private investigators to confirm public information, such as dates of birth.\n\nLearning that Steve Whittamore was obtaining information from the police national computer, the Information Commissioner contacted the Metropolitan Police and the Met's anti-corruption unit initiated Operation Glade. Whittamore's detailed records identified 27 different journalists as having commissioned him to acquire confidential information for which they paid him tens of thousands of pounds. Invoices submitted to News International \"sometimes made explicit reference to obtaining a target's details from their phone number or their vehicle registration.\" Between February 2004 and April 2005, the Crown Prosecution Service charged ten men working for private detective agencies with crimes relating to the illegal acquisition of confidential information. No journalists were charged. Whittamore, Boyall, and two others pleaded guilty in April 2005. According to ICO head Richard Thomas, \"each pleaded guilty yet, despite the extent and the frequency of their admitted criminality, each was conditionally discharged [for two years], raising important questions for public policy.\"\n\nOn 14 November 2005, the \"News of the World\" published an article written by royal editor Clive Goodman, claiming that Prince William was in the process of borrowing a portable editing suite from ITV correspondent Tom Bradby. Following the publication, the Prince and Bradby met to try to figure out how the details of their arrangement had been leaked, as only two other people were aware of it. Prince William noted that another equally improbable leak had recently taken place regarding an appointment he had made with a knee surgeon. The Prince and Bradby concluded it was likely that their voicemails were being accessed.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police set up an investigation under Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke reporting to Assistant Commissioner Andy Hayman, commander of the Specialist Operations directorate, which included royal protection. By January 2006 Clarke's team had concluded that the compromised voice mail accounts belonged to Prince William's aides, not the Prince himself, and that there was an \"unambiguous trail\" to Clive Goodman, the \"News of the World\" royal reporter, and to Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator. The detectives put Goodman and Mulcaire under surveillance and, on 8 August 2006, searched Goodman's desk at the \"News of the World\" and raided Mulcaire's home. There they seized \"11,000 pages of handwritten notes listing nearly 4,000 celebrities, politicians, sports stars, police officials and crime victims whose phones may have been hacked.\" The names included eight members of the royal family and their staff. There were dozens of notebooks, two computers containing 2,978 complete or partial mobile phone numbers and 91 PIN codes, plus 30 tape recordings made by Mulcaire. Significantly, there were at least three names of \"News of the World\" journalists other than Goodman and a recording of Mulcaire instructing a journalist how to hack into private voice mail. All this material was taken to Scotland Yard.\n\nIn August 2006, Goodman and Mulcaire were arrested by the Metropolitan Police, and later charged with hacking the telephones of members of the royal family by accessing voicemail messages, an offence under section 79 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000. The \"News of the World\" had paid Mulcaire £104,988 for his services. In addition, Goodman had paid Mulcaire £12,300 in cash between 9 November 2005 and 7 August 2006, using the code name Alexander on his expenses sheet for him. The court heard that Mulcaire had also hacked into the messages of supermodel Elle Macpherson, publicist Max Clifford, MP Simon Hughes, football agent Sky Andrew, and Gordon Taylor. On 26 January 2007, both Goodman and Mulcaire pleaded guilty to the charges and were sentenced to four and six months imprisonment respectively. On the same day, Andy Coulson resigned as editor of the \"News of the World\", while insisting that he had no knowledge of any illegal activities. In March 2007, a senior aide to Rupert Murdoch told a parliamentary committee that a \"rigorous internal investigation\" found no evidence of widespread hacking at the \"News of the World\".\n\nAfter Goodman and Mulcaire pleaded guilty, a breach of privacy claim was started by Gordon Taylor, chief executive of the Professional Footballers Association who was represented by his solicitor Mark Lewis. That claim settled for a payment of £700,000 including legal costs. James Murdoch agreed the settlement.\n\nThe Press Complaints Commission, PCC, is the organisation charged with self-regulation of the newspaper and magazine industry in Britain. The PCC's inquiry into phone hacking in 2007 concluded that the practice should stop but that \"there is a legitimate place for the use of subterfuge when there are grounds in the public interest to use it and it is not possible to obtain information through other means.\" \"News of the World\" editor Colin Myler told the PCC that Goodman's hacking was \"aberrational\", \"a rogue exception\" of a single journalist. The PCC opted not to question Andy Coulson on the grounds that he had left the industry, and not to question any other journalist or executive on the paper, apart from Myler, who had no knowledge of what had been going on there before his appointment. The PCC's subsequent report failed to uncover any evidence of any phone hacking by any newspaper beyond that revealed at Goodman's trial.\n\nIn 2009 the PCC held another inquiry, to see whether they were misled by the \"News of the World\" in 2007, and if there was any evidence that phone hacking had taken place since then. It concluded it had not been misled and that there was no evidence of ongoing phone hacking. This report and its conclusions were withdrawn on 6 July 2011, two days after it was revealed that Milly Dowler's phone had been hacked.\n\nAfter the 2006 conviction of Clive Goodman and Glenn Mulcaire, and with assurances from \"News International\", the Press Complaints Commission and the Metropolitan Police Service that no one else had been involved in phone hacking, the public perception was that the matter was closed. Nick Davies and other journalists from \"The Guardian\", and eventually other newspapers, however continued to examine evidence from court cases and use Freedom of Information Act 2000 requests to find evidence to the contrary.\n\nA small number of victims of phone hacking engaged solicitors and made civil claims for invasion of privacy. By March 2010, News International had spent over £2 million settling court cases with victims of phone hacking. As information about these claims leaked out, \"The Guardian\" continued to follow the story. On 8 & 9 July 2009, the newspaper published three articles alleging that:\n\nWhen the \"Guardian\" articles were published, Metropolitan Police Service Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson asked Assistant Commissioner John Yates to look at the phone hacking case to see if it should be reopened. Yates reportedly took just eight hours to consult with senior detectives and Crown Prosecution lawyers to conclude there was no fresh material that could lead to further convictions. His review did not include an examination of the thousands of pages of evidence seized in the 2006 Mulcaire raid. In September 2009, Yates maintained his position to the Commons Culture, Media and Sport Committee saying, \"There remain now insufficient grounds or evidence to arrest or interview anyone else and...no additional evidence has come to light.\" Upon review of the first inquiry, he concluded that there were \"hundreds, not thousands\" of potential victims.\" Yates told the Committee, \"It is very few, it is a handful\" of persons that had been subject to hacking. Although Yates was aware of the \"Transcript for Neville\" email that indicated more than a single rogue reporter was involved, he did not interview Neville Thurlbeck nor any other journalist at the \"News of the World\", nor look into the cases of victims beyond the eight named in court in 2006. The Committee's findings, released in February 2010, were critical of the police for not pursuing \"evidence that merited a wider investigation.\"\n\nThe Committee Chairman John Whittingdale also questioned whether the Committee had been misled by several of the News International executives who had testified before it in 2007 that Goodman alone was involved in phone hacking. The Committee again heard evidence from Les Hinton, by then chief executive officer of Dow Jones & Company, and Andy Coulson, by then director of communications for the Conservative Party. Their report concluded that it was \"inconceivable\" that no one, other than Goodman, knew about the extent of phone hacking at the paper, and that the Committee had \"repeatedly encountered an unwillingness to provide the detailed information that we sought, claims of ignorance or lack of recall and deliberate obfuscation\".\n\nAssistant Commissioner Yates returned to the Committee on 24 March 2011 and defended his position that only ten to twelve victims met the criteria given to the police by the Crown Prosecution Service. The CPS denied that what they had told the Met could be reasonably used to limit the scope of the investigation. Further, they claimed to have been misled by the Met during consultations on the Royal Household inquiry. Met officials reportedly \"didn’t discuss certain evidence with senior prosecutors, including the notes suggesting the involvement of other reporters.\"\n\nThe Home Affairs Select Committee also questioned Yates in 2009 about the Met's continuing refusal to reopen the investigation \"following allegations that 27 other News International reporters had commissioned private investigators to carry out tasks, some of which might have been illegal.\" Yates responded that he had only looked into the facts of the original 2006 inquiry into Goodmans activities. The Home Affairs Committee began another inquiry on 1 September 2010 and later published a report highly critical of the Met, stating, \"The difficulties were offered to us as justifying a failure to investigate further, and we saw nothing that suggested there was a real will to tackle and overcome those obstacles.\"\n\n\"The Guardian\" continued to be critical of Yates, who responded by hiring a firm of libel lawyers, paid for by the Met, to threaten legal action against anyone that claimed he had misled Parliament. Eventually, as celebrities and politicians continued asking if they had been victims of hacking, Yates directed that the evidence from the Mulcaire raid, that had been stored in bin bags for three years, finally be entered into a computer database. Ten people were assigned the task. Yates himself did not look at the evidence saying later, \"I’m not going to go down and look at bin bags. I am supposed to be an Assistant Commissioner.\" He did not re-open the investigation.\n\nDays after the settlement with Gordon Taylor was revealed by \"The Guardian\" in July 2009, Max Clifford, another of the eight victims named in 2006, announced his intentions to sue. In March 2010, News International agreed to settle his suit for £1,000,000, a much greater than expected settlement if hacking Clifford's phone was the only issue. These two awards encouraged other victims to explore legal redress, resulting in more and more phone hacking queries to the Metropolitan Police, which they were often slow to respond to. One commentator observed that \"the Goodman-Mulcaire revelations and subsequent prosecution were supposed to have settled the hacking matter forever and might have done just that, except that successful law suits... kept popping up against News of the World after the convictions.\"\n\nOn 15 December 2010, \"The Guardian\" reported that some of the documents seized from Glenn Mulcaire in 2006 by the Metropolitan Police Service and only recently disclosed in open court, implied that \"News of the World\" editor Ian Edmondson specifically instructed Mulcaire to hack voice messages of Sienna Miller, Jude Law, and several others. The documents also implied that Mulcaire was engaged by \"News of the World\" chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck and assistant editor Greg Miskiw, who had then worked directly for editor Andy Coulson. This contradicted testimony to the Culture, Media and Sport Committee by News International executives and senior Met officials that there was no evidence of hacking by anyone other than Mulcaire and Goodman.\nWithin five weeks of the article appearing,\n\nThe Metropolitan Police announced on 26 January 2011 that it would begin a new investigation into phone hacking, following the receipt of \"significant new information\" regarding the conduct of \"News of the World\" employees. Operation Weeting would take place alongside the previously announced review of phone hacking evidence by the Crown Prosecution Service. Between 45 and 60 officers began looking over the 11,000 pages of evidence seized from Mulcaire in August 2006.\n\nIn June 2011, the issue of computer hacking was addressed with the launch of Operation Tuleta.\n\nHaving failed thus far to put the phone hacking issue to rest, News International's law firm, Hickman & Rose, hired former Director of Public Prosecutions Ken Macdonald to review the emails that News International executives had used as the basis of their claim that no one at the \"News of the World\" but Clive Goodman had been involved in phone hacking. Macdonald immediately concluded, regardless of whether others had been involved, that there was clear evidence of criminal activity, including payments to serving police officers. Macdonald arranged for this evidence to be turned over to the Met, which led to their opening in July 2011 of Operation Elveden, an investigation focused on bribery and corruption within the Met's ranks.\n\nThe first arrests as part of Operation Weeting were made on 5 April 2011. Ian Edmondson and the \"News of the World\" chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck were arrested on suspicion of unlawfully intercepting voicemail messages. Both men had denied participating in illegal activities. The paper's assistant news editor, James Weatherup, was taken into custody for questioning by the Metropolitan Police on 14 April 2011. He had also dealt with some major fiscal issues, \"managing huge budgets\" and \"crisis management\" at the newspaper.\n\n\"The Guardian\", referring to the Information Commissioner's report of 2006, queried why the Metropolitan Police chose to exclude a large quantity of material relating to Jonathan Rees from the scope of its Operation Weeting inquiry. The \"News of the World\" was said to have made extensive use of Rees' investigative services, including phone hacking, paying him up to £150,000 a year. On the basis of evidence obtained during Operation Nigeria, Rees was found guilty in December 2000 of attempting to pervert the course of justice and received a seven-year prison sentence. After he was released from prison the \"News of the World\", under the editorship of Andy Coulson, began commissioning Rees' services again.\n\n\"The Guardian\" journalist Nick Davies described commissions from the \"News of the World\" as the \"golden source\" of income for Rees' \"empire of corruption\", which involved a network of contacts with corrupt police officers and a pattern of illegal behaviour extending far beyond phone hacking. Despite detailed evidence, the Metropolitan Police failed to pursue effective in-depth investigations into Rees' corrupt relationship with the \"News of the World\" over more than a decade.\n\nOn 12 July 2011, Metropolitan Police deputy assistant commissioner Sue Akers told MPs and the Home Affairs committee chairman Keith Vaz that police had contacted 170 of the 3,870 people named in Glenn Mulcaire's files to date.\n\nNews International announced on 8 April 2011 that it would admit liability in some of the breach of privacy cases being brought in relation to phone hacking by the \"News of the World\". The company offered an unreserved apology and compensation to eight claimants, but would continue to contest allegations made by other litigants.\n\nThe eight claimants were identified in media reports as:\n\nAt the time of News International's announcement, 24 individuals were in the process of taking legal action against the \"News of the World\" on breach of privacy grounds. Comic actor Steve Coogan was reported to be one of the suspected victims of phone hacking.\n\nHoppen lodged a further claim against the \"News of the World\" and one of its reporters, Dan Evans, for \"accessing or attempting to access her voicemail messages between June 2009, and March 2010\". News International has not admitted liability in relation to the claim.\n\nOn 10 April, Tessa Jowell and her former husband David Mills, Andy Gray, Sky Andrew, Nicola Phillips, Joan Hammell, and Kelly Hoppen all received the official apology and compensation, but actor Leslie Ash and John Prescott, who both had also claimed breach of privacy, did not.\n\nScottish politician Danny Alexander predicted further arrests would be made. The shadow Secretary of State for Wales Peter Hain called on the legal authorities to conduct a \"full and proper public investigation\" and then claimed the police investigation had been \"tardy\".\n\nThe first individual to accept the \"News of the World\" apology and compensation was actress Sienna Miller, who received £100,000 plus legal costs. Sports pundit Andy Gray followed in June, accepting a payout of £20,000 plus legal costs. Prior to the settlements, both individuals' litigation claims had been identified as phone hacking \"test cases\" to be heard in January 2012.\n\nIn January 2012 it was reported that Respect politician George Galloway, who was not an MP at the time, had settled out of court. Galloway had begun legal proceedings for breach of privacy in 2010 after being told by the Met that he had probably been targeted by Mulcaire. The terms of the settlement were not disclosed. Galloway said the apology was a cynical attempt to protect Rebekah Brooks.\n\nIn April, \"The Observer\" reported claims from a former minister that Rupert Murdoch tried to persuade Prime Minister Gordon Brown early in 2010 to help in resisting attempts by Labour MPs and peers to investigate the affair, and to go easy on \"News of the World\" in the run-up to the UK's general election of May 2010. News International described the report as \"total rubbish\"; a spokesperson for Brown declined to comment.\n\nThe BBC reported on 20 May 2011 that a senior \"News of the World\" executive was implicated, according to actor Jude Law's barrister in the High Court. This report also said that the number of people whose phones may have been hacked may be much larger than previously thought. The High Court was said to have been told that \"notebooks belonging to a private investigator hired by News Group Newspapers contained thousands of mobile phone numbers\" and \"police also found 149 individual personal identification numbers and almost 400 unique voicemail numbers which can be used to access voice mail\".\n\nIt was first reported by \"The Guardian\" on 4 July 2011 that police had found evidence suggesting that the private investigator Glenn Mulcaire collected personal information about the family of the missing Surrey teenager Milly Dowler, following her disappearance in March 2002 and the discovery of her body six months later. According to the paper, journalists working for the \"News of the World\" had hired private investigators to hack into Dowler's voicemail inbox shortly after her disappearance. It was alleged that they had deleted some messages, giving false hope to police and to Dowler's family, who thought that she might have deleted the messages and therefore might still be alive and potentially destroying valuable evidence about her abduction and any evidence against a potential abductor and murderer. \n\nLevi Bellfield had been convicted of the murder just two weeks before these revelations – he had already been convicted of two murders and an attempted murder which took place after Milly's disappearance and the discovery of her body. It was later established that Dowler's phone had deleted the messages automatically, 72 hours after being listened to. \"The Guardian\" commented that the \"News of the World\" did not conceal from its readers in an article on 14 April 2002 that it had intercepted telephone messages and also informed Surrey police of this fact on 27 March 2002, six days after Milly went missing.\n\nIn July 2011, it was announced that the Dowler family was preparing a claim for damages against the \"News of the World\". News Group Newspapers described the allegation as \"a development of great concern\". Reacting to the revelation, Prime Minister David Cameron said that the alleged hacking, if true, was \"truly dreadful\". He added that police ought to pursue a \"vigorous\" investigation to ascertain what had taken place. Leader of the opposition Ed Miliband called on Rebekah Brooks, the \"News of the World\" editor in 2002, and then the chief executive of News International, to \"consider her conscience and consider her position\". Brooks denied knowledge of phone hacking during her editorship.\n\nIt was in the wake of the Dowler allegations that a significant number of people, including former deputy prime minister John Prescott and other politicians, began seriously to question whether the takeover of BSkyB by News Corporation should be vetoed by the appropriate government authorities. The Media Standards Trust formed the pressure group \"Hacked Off\", to campaign for a public inquiry. Soon after launch, the campaign gained the support of suspected hacking victim, the actor Hugh Grant, who became a public spokesperson, appearing on \"Question Time\" and \"Newsnight.\"\n\nIn January 2012, it was revealed that Surrey Police had discovered during the early stages of their inquiries that News of the World staff had accessed Amanda Dowler's mobile phone messages but did not take issue with this. Instead, a senior Surrey officer invited News of the World staff to a meeting to discuss the case.\n\nOn 6 July 2011, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that the voicemail accounts of some relatives of British soldiers killed in action in Iraq since 2003 and Afghanistan since 2001 may have been eavesdropped by the \"News of the World\". The personal details and phone numbers belonging to relatives of dead service personnel were found in the Glen Mulcaire's files. In response to the allegations, The Royal British Legion announced that it would suspend all ties with the \"News of the World\", dropping the newspaper as its campaigning partner.\n\nOn the day before the sixth anniversary of the 7 July 2005 London bombings, it was reported that relatives of some victims may have had their telephones snooped on by the \"News of the World\" in the aftermath of the attacks. A man who lost two children in the bombings told the BBC that police officers investigating phone hacking had warned him that their contact details were found on a target list, while a former firefighter who helped rescue injured passengers also said he had been contacted by police who were looking into the hacking allegations. A number of survivors from the bombings revealed that police had warned them their phones may have been hacked and their messages intercepted; in some cases they were advised to change security codes and PINs.\n\nOn 28 July, \"The Guardian\" reported that the \"News of the World\" hacked into the voicemail of media campaigner Sara Payne, whose eight-year-old daughter, Sarah Payne, was murdered in West Sussex by paedophile Roy Whiting, in July 2000. This news was arguably met with even more public outrage than the Dowler revelations, given the prominent role that Rebekah Brooks and the \"News of the World\" played in the passage of Sarah's Law, which changed sex offender laws in the UK. Sara Payne has been an active campaigner in favour of such laws with News International and other media and charity organisations since her daughter's death.\n\nBrooks developed a long-standing friendship with Sara Payne in the years after her daughter's death; Payne wrote a column praising the \"News of the World\" support for Sarah's Law in its final issue, writing that the paper's staff \"supported me through some of the darkest, most difficult times of my life and became my trusted friends\". Brooks used the Sarah's Law campaign to defend the \"News of the World\" when she was questioned by the Culture, Media and Sport Committee.\n\nScotland Yard had reportedly found materials pertaining to Payne in Glenn Mulcaire's notes. They also discovered that Payne's voicemail was on a mobile phone given to her by Brooks, ostensibly to help her keep in touch with supporters. Brooks issued a statement denying that the \"News of the World\" was aware of Mulcaire's targeting of Payne, saying that such an idea was \"unthinkable\". Payne was said to be \"absolutely devastated and deeply disappointed\" at the disclosure.\n\nSome email messages were discovered suggesting Jonathan Rees made requests for sums of around £1,000 for contact details of senior members of the Royal Family and friends.\n\nFormer deputy prime minister John Prescott claimed he knew of \"direct evidence\" indicating \"The Sunday Times\" was involved in illegal news gathering activities. Former prime minister Gordon Brown alleged his bank account was accessed by \"The Sunday Times\" in 2000, and that \"The Sun\" gained private medical records about his son, Fraser, who has cystic fibrosis. Rebekah Brooks telephoned Brown to tell him that \"The Sun\" was going to reveal that his son had been diagnosed with cystic fibrosis and tried to persuade him not to spoil the newspaper's exclusive by announcing it himself first. \"The Guardian\" later ran a front-page story accusing \"The Sun\" of improperly obtaining the medical records of Brown's son, but was later forced to issue an apology upon discovering that the information came from a member of the public.\n\nOther victims of hacking included former Metropolitan Police assistant commissioner John Yates, who revealed on 12 January 2011 that his phone was hacked between 2004 and 2005. The phone of chat show host Paul O'Grady was also hacked by the \"News of the World\" after he suffered a heart attack in 2006.\n\nIn May 2012 it was reported that billionaire Robert Agostinelli had been targeted by a private detective named Steve Whitamore working for Rupert Murdoch's newspaper to gain confidential information pertaining to Agostinelli's business affairs – this evidence brought to light the fact that high-profile U.S citizens were targeted by private investigators in the UK within Rupert Murdoch's empire. This was revealed once the Information Commissioner's Office raided Steve Whittamore's offices and was subsequently convicted of illegally trading personal information.\n\nIn July 2011 it was reported that Mark Stephens had been one of a group of high-profile lawyers who may have been the victim of \"News International phone hacking scandal\".\n\nMary Ellen Field, the former business manager of model Elle Macpherson, lost her job after Field was accused of leaking confidential information to the \"News of the World\", which had published a story about Macpherson's split with Arpad Busson. Field realised their voicemails could have been intercepted after Glenn Mulcaire admitted in court to accessing Macpherson's phones.\n\nA cousin of Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian man shot dead by police who mistook him for a fugitive suspected of involvement in the 21 July 2005 attempted bombings in London, may also have had his phone hacked by the \"News of the World\" after Menezes's death. A spokesperson from the Justice4Jean campaign group said: \"The Menezes family are deeply pained to find their phones may have been hacked at a time at which they were at their most vulnerable and bereaved.\"\n\nCarole Caplin, the former fitness adviser to Prime Minister Tony Blair, announced that the Metropolitan police had told her that her mobile phone was probably hacked, dating back to 2002 – along with the Milly Dowler case in the same year, this is one of the earliest cases so far discovered.\n\nThe closure of the \"News of the World\" after 168 years in print, was the first significant effect of the scandal. In the days leading up to 7 July 2011, Virgin Holidays, The Co-operative Group, Ford Motor Company and General Motors (owner of Vauxhall Motors) had all pulled their advertisements from the \"News of the World\" in response to the unfolding controversy. Several other major advertisers also considered doing the same.\n\nJames Murdoch announced on 7 July 2011 that after 168 years in print the \"News of the World\" would publish its last-ever edition on 10 July, with the loss of 200 jobs. News Corporation said that all profits from the final edition would go to good causes. Downing Street said it had no role in the decision. James Murdoch conceded the paper was \"sullied by behaviour that was wrong\", saying \"if recent allegations are true, it was inhuman and has no place in our company.\"\n\nOther executives of the company said the phone hacking was more widespread than previously believed and that they are co-operating with investigations into the allegations. Editor Rebekah Brooks told staff at a meeting, that she recognised following an internal investigation that \"other shoes would drop\", a phrase indicating that further revelations of wrongdoing would follow.\n\nThere was immediate speculation that News International would launch a Sunday edition of \"The Sun\" to replace its sister paper \"News of the World\". \"The Sun on Sunday\" was launched on 26 February 2012.\n\nRupert Murdoch announced on 13 July 2011 that News Corporation was withdrawing its proposal to take full control of the subscription television broadcaster BSkyB, due to concerns over the ongoing furore. The announcement was made a few hours before the House of Commons was due to debate a motion, supported by all major parties, calling on News Corporation to withdraw its proposal. In a symbolic gesture the House later passed the motion unanimously by acclamation.\n\nIn the week of 22 August 2011, Wireless Generation, a subsidiary of News Corporation, lost a no-bid contract with New York State to build an information system, for tracking student performance as a consequence of the News International phone hacking scandal. Citing, \"... vendor responsibility issues with the parent company of Wireless Generation,\" state comptroller Thomas DiNapoli said that the revelations surrounding News Corporation had made the final approval of the contract \"untenable\".\n\nA number of senior employees and executives resigned from News International and its parent company, after the emergence of the new allegations, along with high-ranking officers of the Metropolitan Police Service. News International's legal manager Tom Crone left the company on 13 July. As part of his role at the publisher, Crone had served as the \"News of the World\" chief lawyer and gave evidence before parliamentary committees, that he had uncovered no evidence of phone hacking beyond the criminal offences committed by the royal editor Clive Goodman. He maintained that he did not see an internal report suggesting that phone hacking at the paper went beyond Goodman.\n\nOn 15 July, Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive of News International, quit following widespread criticism of her role in the controversy. In a statement, Brooks said that \"my desire to remain on the bridge has made me a focal point of the debate\" and stated that she would \"concentrate on correcting the distortions and rebutting the allegations about my record\". Her exit was welcomed by political leaders. Prime Minister David Cameron's office said that her departure was \"the right decision\", while Leader of the Opposition Ed Miliband agreed but suggested that she should have departed ten days earlier. Tom Mockridge, the long-time chief executive of the Italian satellite broadcaster Sky Italia, was announced as Brooks' replacement at the head of News International.\n\nLater that day, Les Hinton resigned as the chief executive of the News Corporation subsidiary Dow Jones & Company. Hinton had served as chief executive of News International between 1997 and 2005. He had told parliamentary committees that there was \"never any evidence\" of phone hacking beyond the case of Clive Goodman. In his resignation announcement, Hinton said that he was not told of \"evidence that wrongdoing went further\" but indicated that he nevertheless felt it \"proper\" to resign from his position.\n\nOn 17 July, the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police and Britain's most senior police officer, Sir Paul Stephenson, announced his resignation with immediate effect. He had faced criticism for hiring former \"News of the World\" executive editor Neil Wallis as an advisor and for having received free hospitality at a luxury health spa owned by a company for which Wallis also worked. Stephenson's resignation was followed by that of assistant commissioner John Yates on 18 July. Yates had been criticised for failing to re-open the original 2006 investigation into phone hacking at News International, despite new evidence coming to light in 2009. In the wake of the later 2012 allegations against \"The Sun\" and arrests of executives, senior reporters and other personnel, James Murdoch resigned from his posts as News International executive chairman and BSkyB chairman on 1 March 2012. Later that July, Rupert Murdoch resigned from his directorships at Times Newspaper Holdings, NewsCorp Investments and News International Group Limited.\n\nMatt Nixson was escorted by security from the Wapping headquarters of \"The Sun\" newspaper the evening of 20 July 2011. His computer was seized by News International officials and the police were said to have been informed. Nixson was a features editor at \"The Sun\". It was reported that Nixson's dismissal was related to the time he spent at the \"News of the World\" from 2006, when it was edited by Coulson. At the \"News of the World\" he reported to assistant editor Ian Edmondson.\n\nPending the result of an Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC – see below) enquiry into his dealings with Neil Wallis (see below), a former assistant editor of the News of the World, Dick Fedorcio, director of public affairs and internal communication for the Metropolitan Police, was put on extended leave 10 August 2011.\nDetails emerged 7 September 2011 that senior journalist Amelia Hill of \"The Guardian\" was questioned under caution but not arrest, for several hours by officers from Operation Weeting the previous week. Hill had reported the names of individuals linked to the phone hacking scandal minutes after their arrests and it is thought her questioning was linked to the earlier arrest of a 51-year-old detective suspected of leaking information to the newspaper.\n\nFrom 15 July, onwards, News Corp began to change its position through a series of public apologies. On 15 July, Rupert Murdoch in interview with the News Corp owned \"The Wall Street Journal\" apologised for the \"News of the World\" letting slip the group's standards of journalism. Murdoch also alleged that the group's legal advisers, Harbottle & Lewis, had made \"a major mistake\" in its part in the internal investigation into phone-hacking in 2007. On 18 July, Harbottle & Lewis issued an open letter outlining its position, and appointed Luther Pendragon to handle PR issues relating to the affair.\n\nOn 16 and 17 July, News International published two full-page apologies in many of Britain's national newspapers. The first apology took the form of a letter, signed by Rupert Murdoch, in which he said sorry for the \"serious wrongdoing\" that occurred. The second was titled \"Putting right what's gone wrong\", and gave more detail about the steps News International was taking to address the public's concerns.\n\nOn the afternoon before the ads were published, Rupert Murdoch also attended a private meeting in London with the family of Milly Dowler, where he apologised for the hacking of their murdered daughter's voicemail. The Dowler family's solicitor later said Murdoch appeared shaken and upset during the talks. He added that the Dowlers were surprised Murdoch's son James did not attend and called on the News International chairman to \"take some responsibility\" in the affair.\n\nIn March 2012 the \"Daily Mail\" published a story which it claimed was \"evidence of the incestuous relationship between the Metropolitan Police and News International\" and a political connection to David Cameron. In late 2010 the Mail had sought confirmation from the Prime Minister's office of a rumour that Cameron had been seen out riding horses with Rebekah Brooks's husband, Charlie Brooks, a horse trainer. Coulson, as Communications Director for Cameron had denied this. In March 2012, after the PM's office had denied the story again for three days, the Mail reported that Cameron had finally admitted that he had been out riding with Brooks back in 2010. He also admitted that the horse had been Raisa, a horse on loan to Rebekah Brooks from the Metropolitan Police.\n\nIn February 2013 News International expressed \"sincere\" contrition and paid undisclosed \"substantial\" damages for a total of 144 cases. Among 17 phone-hacking victims given public apologies by News International in the High Court were Sarah, Duchess of York, actors Hugh Grant and Christopher Eccleston, the Catholic parish priest of singer Charlotte Church, singer James Blunt, Uri Geller, Geoffrey Robinson, the former Labour minister, and Colin Stagg, the man wrongly accused of the murder of Rachel Nickell. Mr Stagg, one of the few to have his damages disclosed, was awarded £15,500. Others who settled but opted to keep the terms of the arrangement private, included Cherie Blair, the wife of the former prime minister, UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, TV presenters Jamie Theakston and Chris Tarrant, Ted Beckham, the father of the former England football captain, former Tory minister David Maclean, Baron Blencathra, actor James Nesbitt, footballer Wayne Rooney and BBC reporter Tom Mangold.\n\nSince 1999, over 100 people have been arrested in conjunction with illegal acquisition of confidential information. Over 90 of these have been arrested or rearrested since police investigations were renewed in 2011. Of these, 26 have been formally charged with crimes.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported on 7 July 2011, that former \"News of the World\" editor and David Cameron's former spokesman Andy Coulson was to be arrested the following day, along with a senior journalist the paper refused to name.\nSky News reported on 8 July 2011, that Coulson had been formally arrested,\nalthough the Metropolitan Police would only confirm that a \"43-year-old man\" had been arrested for \"conspiring to intercept communications\", he was then released without charge.\n\nOn 30 May 2012, Coulson was charged with perjury, and later that year his and Rebekah Brooks' trial date was set for 9 September 2013.\n\nFormer \"News of the World\" executive editor Neil Wallis was arrested in west London on 14 July, on suspicion of conspiring to intercept communications. He joined the paper in 2003 as a deputy to Coulson and in 2007, became an executive editor before leaving in 2009. Later that year his media consultancy company began to advise Paul Stephenson and John Yates, two high-ranking Metropolitan Police officers, providing \"strategic communications advice\" until September 2010. During that time, Yates made the decision that the phone hacking needed no further investigation, despite \"The Guardian\" alleging that the previous investigation had been inadequate. He was also paid to advise commissioner Stephenson and Yates.\n\nRebekah Brooks, the former editor of the \"News of the World\" and former chief executive of News International, was arrested on 17 July 2011 on suspicion of conspiring to intercept communications and on suspicion of corruption. She was arrested by appointment at a London police station by detectives working on Operation Weeting, the Metropolitan Police's phone hacking investigation, and Operation Elveden, the probe examining illicit payments to police officers.\n\nFollowing twelve hours in custody, Brooks was released on bail until late October.\n\nOn 18 July, police reported the discovery of a rubbish bag containing a laptop, documents, a phone dumped in an underground parking garage near Brooks' home. Brooks' husband had initially tried to claim the trash bag, which he said contained his property unrelated to the investigation.\n\nMs. Brooks was arrested again in March 2012, this time on suspicion of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Her husband, Charlie Brooks, was arrested with her. Two months later, on 15 May 2012, they were both charged along with four others with conspiracy to pervert the course of justice by allegedly removing documents and computers from \"News International\" offices to conceal them from investigating detectives.\n\nStuart Kuttner, the former managing editor of the \"News of the World\", was arrested on 2 August 2011 on suspicion of conspiring to intercept communications and on suspicion of corruption. He was arrested by appointment at a London police station by Operation Weeting and Operation Elveden detectives. (Kuttner was re-arrested 30 August, for further questioning.) On 24 July 2012, he was formally charged with conspiracy to intercept communications between 3 October 2000 to 9 August 2006 without lawful authority regarding communications of Milly Dowler and David Blunkett, MP.\n\nEight days later, Greg Miskiw, a former \"News of the World\" news editor, was arrested on suspicion of unlawful interception of communications and conspiring to intercept communications. He was arrested by appointment at a London police station by detectives working on Operation Weeting, the police investigation into phone hacking. On 24 July 2012, he was charged with conspiracy to intercept communications without lawful authority during the period from 3 October 2000 to 9 August 2006 from the phones of Milly Dowler, Sven-Göran Eriksson, Abigail Titmuss, John Leslie Andrew Gilchrist, David Blunkett MP, Delia Smith, Charles Clarke MP, Jude Law, Sadie Frost, Sienna Miller, and Wayne Rooney .\n\nJames Desborough was arrested after arriving, by appointment, at a south London police station the morning of 18 August 2011 for questioning concerning criminal activities at the \"News of the World\". His arrest was based on suspicion of conspiring to intercept communications. Desborough was promoted to be the newspaper's Los Angeles-based US editor in 2009. Prior to that appointment, he was an award-winning show-business reporter based in London.\nDan Evans, a former reporter for \"News of the World\", was arrested and later bailed on 19 August 2011. An unnamed 30-year-old man was arrested and later bailed on 2 September 2011.\n\nIn an early morning raid on his North London home on 7 September 2011, deputy football editor of \"The Times\" Raoul Simons (on extended leave from his job since September 2010) was arrested and held for questioning on suspicion of conspiracy to intercept voicemail messages by police officers from Operation Weeting.\n\nA reporter working for \"The Sun\" was arrested and taken to a southwest London police station at 10.30 am on 4 November 2011. The man is the sixth person to be arrested in the UK under the \"News International\"-related legal probe, Operation Elveden.\nThe 48-year-old \"The Sun\" journalist Jamie Pyatt had been arrested by detectives on 4 November 2011 investigating illegal payments to police officers by journalists and has been released on bail.\n\nOn 2 October 2012, two individuals associated with the earliest investigations (1999) into the phone hacking scandal were arrested. Private investigator Jonathan Rees and \"News of the World\" journalist Alex Marunchak were arrested for alleged offences under section 3 of the Computer Misuse Act 1990 and sections 1 and 2 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 by police officers working on Operation Kalmyk, part of Operation Tuleta dealing with computer hacking. These arrests came thirteen years after Rees' premises were raided under Operation Nigeria, during which large amounts of evidence indicating widespread illegal trafficking in confidential information was seized by the Metropolitan Police Service. Marunchak was arrested by Scotland Yard detectives on 2 October 2012 and remained on bail for 23 months until 16 September 2014 when he was released from bail. In a formal letter to him the following year, on 9 September 2015, the Crown Prosecution Service stated it had \"concluded that there is insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction in respect of offences contrary to the Computer Misuse Act (for ‘computer hacking’ offences)\", \"that there is insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction for any associated or alternative offences\" and \"that no further action be taken in relation to this matter.\" Despite Marunchak's arrest in 2012 he was never charged nor brought to court.\n\nOn 14 July, the Culture, Media and Sport Committee of the House of Commons served a summons on Rupert Murdoch, James Murdoch and Rebekah Brooks, expecting them to appear before the parliamentary committee on 19 July. After an initial invitation to give evidence to the committee, Brooks stated she would attend but the Murdochs declined. Rupert Murdoch claimed to be unavailable on that date but said he would be \"fully prepared\" to give evidence in Leveson's inquiry, while James Murdoch offered to appear on an alternative date, the earliest of which was 10 August. The Murdochs did, however, later confirm they would attend after the committee issued them a summons to Parliament.\n\nTom Watson and Martin Hickman report in their book \"Dial M For Murdoch\" that:\n\nUnbeknown to members of the Culture Committee, the NOTW established a team to investigate their private lives. For several days, as chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck would later tell Tom Watson, reporters searched for any secret lovers or extra-marital affairs that could be used as leverage against the MPs.\n\nThurlbeck said: \"All I know is that, when the DCMS [Department of Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee] was formed or rather when it got onto all the hacking stuff, there was an edict came down from the editor and it was find out every single thing you can about every single member: who was gay, who had affairs, anything we can use.\n\n\"Each reporter was given two members and there were six reporters that went on for around 10 days. I don't know who looked at you. It fell by the wayside; I think even Ian Edmondson [the news editor] realised there was something quite horrible about doing this.\"\n\nAt their appearance before the committee, Rupert Murdoch said it had been \"the most humble day of my life\" and argued that since he ran a global business of 53,000 employees and that the \"News of the World\" was \"just 1 percent\" of this, he was not ultimately responsible for what went on at the tabloid; he added that he had not considered resigning. Meanwhile, his son James described the \"illegal voicemail interceptions\" as a \"matter of great regret\" but that the company was \"determined to put things right and make sure they do not happen again\". James Murdoch stated that News International had based its \"push back\" against new allegations on the combination of three pieces of evidence: that the Metropolitan Police had closed their investigation, that the Crown Prosecution Service had closed their prosecution and that they had received written advice from their legal advisors Harbottle & Lewis, that there was nothing to suggest phone hacking was not the work of one \"rogue reporter\" working with private investigator Glenn Mulcaire. Towards the end of the Murdochs' two hours of evidence, a protestor sitting in the public gallery, identified as comedian Jonnie Marbles, threw a shaving-foam pie at Rupert Murdoch. The incident propelled Murdoch's wife, Wendi Deng Murdoch, into the media spotlight for her athletic response in defence of her husband. Marbles later said that he had \"much respect\" for Deng for fighting back. Marbles, real name Jonathan May-Bowles, was sentenced to six weeks in prison for the attack.\n\nHarbottle & Lewis later commented that it could not respond to \"any inaccurate statements or contentions\" about the 2007 letter to News International due to client confidentiality. Later on the same day, giving evidence to the Home Affairs Select Committee, former director of public prosecutions Lord MacDonald stated that it took him \"three to five minutes\" to decide that the same emails contained in the file passed to Harbottle & Lewis contained \"blindingly obvious\" evidence of corrupt payments to police officers, which had to be immediately passed to the Metropolitan Police.\n\nBrooks answered questions at the committee after the Murdochs and independently of them.\nShe began by calling the practice of phone hacking at the newspaper she edited as \"pretty horrific\". Upon questioning, she confirmed that under her editorship she knew the \"News of the World\" hired private detectives but denied having ever met Glenn Mulcaire.\n\nThe testimony of James Murdoch was questioned by two former News International executives. Murdoch had denied reading or being aware of an email, sent after he authorised an out-of-court payment to Gordon Taylor over the hacking of his phone, which suggested the practice was more widely used than just by a rogue \"News of the World\" reporter. A former editor of the newspaper, Colin Myler and Tom Crone, the former News International legal manager, both said they \"did inform\" him of the email.\n\nOn 18 July, News Corporation announced that its UK management standards committee would be removed from News International. It will now be housed in a separate building, under the chairmanship of Lord Grabiner, and reporting to News Corporation director Joel Klein. As a result, existing News International executives Will Lewis and Simon Greenberg will resign their existing positions with News International and become News Corporation employees, focused initially on the clean-up of News International. In September 2011 it was reported that the MSC was not issuing employees of News International who had had their contracts terminated with the reasons for their dismissal in case this would compromise the ongoing police inquiry.\n\nOn 18 July, former \"News of the World\" journalist Sean Hoare, who was the first reporter to tell of \"endemic\" phone hacking at the publication for which he used to work, was found dead at his home in Watford, Hertfordshire. A police spokesperson said the death was treated as \"unexplained\" but not suspicious. In November 2011, the coroner for Hertfordshire concluded that Hoare died of natural causes after suffering from liver disease.\n\nOn 20 July, \"Private Eye\" asked how the \"Sunday Mirror\" had, early in 2003, obtained a transcript of phone calls by Angus Deayton and in October 2003 had come into possession of every call and text message made by Rio Ferdinand one afternoon (when he claimed to have missed a drugs test due to having his mobile switched off). The latter story was co-written by James Weatherup, who moved to the \"News of the World\" the following year.\n\nOn 22 July, former \"Daily Mirror\" financial journalist James Hipwell spoke to \"The Independent\", claiming that the practice had been \"endemic\" at the Mirror during his time there under the editorship of Piers Morgan. \n\nHe also alleged that phone hacking took place at some of the Mirror's sister publications. Trinity Mirror, the publisher of the \"Daily Mirror\" and \"Sunday Mirror\", rejected Hipwell's claims. A spokesman said: \"Our position is clear... Our journalists work within the criminal law and the Press Complaints Commission code of conduct.\" The BBC's \"Newsnight\" programme reported other sources at the \"Sunday Mirror\" confirming use of phone hacking, with one source saying \"At one point in 2004, it seemed like it was the only way people were getting scoops.\" It was also said that the paper made use of private investigators. On 26 July Trinity Mirror announced an internal review of its editorial procedures.\n\nOn 3 August, Heather Mills alleged that a senior journalist working for Trinity Mirror had admitted to her in 2001 that the company had access to voicemail messages which they knew to have been obtained by hacking. In response Trinity Mirror repeated the statement used in rejecting James Hipwell's claims, saying \"Our position is clear. All our journalists work within the criminal law and the PCC code of conduct.\"\n\nAlso on 3 August, Piers Morgan issued a statement through CNN, his employer, that \"I have never hacked a phone, told anyone to hack a phone, nor to my knowledge published any story obtained from the hacking of a phone.\" The statement omitted comment on whether he had any knowledge of phone hacking by employees or paid contractors of the Mirror during the period he was editor there.\n\nThat Morgan did have knowledge of phone hacking is suggested in his own 2006 article in the \"Daily Mail\", regarding a phone message from Paul McCartney to his girlfriend Heather Mills in which Morgan stated, \"At one stage I was played a tape of a message Paul had left for Heather on her mobile phone. It was heartbreaking. . . The couple had clearly had a tiff, Heather had fled to India, and Paul was pleading with her to come back. He sounded lonely, miserable and desperate, and even sang 'We Can Work It Out ' into the answer phone.\" On 3 August, Heather Mills told BBC's Newsnight: \"There was absolutely no honest way that Piers Morgan could have obtained that tape ... unless they had gone into my voice messages.\"\n\nDuring the internal investigation into the unfair dismissal claim against News Group Newspapers Limited by Clive Goodman, News International hired law firm Harbottle & Lewis (H&L) and passed on hundreds of internal emails to them. Lawrence Abramson of Harbottle & Lewis wrote a letter on 29 May 2007, to News International head of legal affairs Jon Chapman which said that they had\n\nThe letter from Mr Abramson to Mr Chapman makes no mention of whether the e-mails contain evidence of wrongdoing by journalists other than Mr Goodman.\n\nIt was reported that NI executives urged H&L to give them a clean bill of health in the strongest possible terms, that earlier draft letters by H&L were rejected by NI and that lawyers on both sides seemed to struggle to find language that said the review had found no evidence of wrongdoing. This information was provided by \"two people familiar with both the contents of the e-mails and the discussions between the executives and the law firm\". This letter was used by various News International executives in their defence during a parliamentary investigation into phone hacking in 2009.\n\nIn July 2011, Rupert Murdoch alleged in interview with \"The Wall Street Journal\" that H&L made \"a major mistake\" in its part in an internal investigation into phone-hacking at News International. On 18 July 2011, H&L issued an open letter outlining its position, and appointed Luther Pendragon to handle PR issues relating to the affair. On 19 July, Lord MacDonald the former Director of Public Prosecutions engaged by News Corporation to review the emails handed to Harbottle & Lewis in 2007, said in evidence to the Home Affairs Select Committee:\n\nAt his appearance before the Culture, Media and Sport Committee on 19 July, James Murdoch stated that News International had based its \"push back\" against new allegations on the combination of three pieces of evidence and one of these was the written advice from H&L.\n\nOn 20 July, H&L issued a statement saying that they had asked News International to release them from their professional duty of confidentiality, which had been declined by News International. The company had since written to John Whittingdale MP, chairman of the Culture, Media and Sport Committee, asking to provide evidence to the committee.\n\nOn 21 July, News International authorised H&L to answer questions from the Metropolitan Police Service and parliamentary select committees in respect of what they were asked to do. Neil Rose, editor of legalfutures.co.uk, commented that the exact form of News International's waiver means H&L will not be able to declare its innocence but only answer questions by the police or parliament.\n\nOn 22 July, Tom Watson MP published a letter from the Solicitors Regulation Authority, in response to his letter expressing concerns about Harbottle and Lewis's part in the phone-hacking affair. In the letter, Anthony Townsend, chief executive of the SRA said:\n\nThe Culture, Media and Sport Committee wrote to H&L on 29 July asking a series of detailed questions about the interaction between NI and H&L. H&L replied to this request on 11 August. in what was described as \"a withering attack on News International and the Murdochs\".\n\nH&L said that it provided very narrow advice on whether the emails in question could be used to support Clive Goodman's allegations, that his illegal activities were known about and supported by other employees at NOTW. They were not retained to provide NI with a \"good conduct certificate\" which they could show to parliament. H&L state that the terms of their contract with NI explicitly stated that their advice should not be disclosed to a third party without H&L's written consent. They also state that if NI \"had approached them (as it should have done) before presenting the letter to Parliament as evidence of its corporate innocence, H&L would not have agreed to this without further discussion\". They also state that they could not have reported NI to the police even if they had found evidence of criminal activity in the emails, because of client confidentiality. Their fee for the work was £10,294 + VAT. The letter suggests that this amount be compared with James Murdoch's evidence where he said that he had been told that the litigation costs in the Gordon Taylor and Max Clifford cases were expected to be between £500,000 and £1m.\n\nCharges and a total of seven convictions concerning the illegal acquisition of confidential information were made in three separate waves in 2004–2005, 2006 and 2012. Further convictions resulted from the \"R v Coulson, Brooks and others\" trial which concluded in July 2014.\n\nBetween February 2004 and April 2005, the Crown Prosecution Service charged ten men working for private detective agencies with crimes relating to the illegal acquisition of confidential information. No journalists were charged. Three private investigators and two of their sources pleaded guilty or were otherwise convicted. Steve Whittamore and John Boyall pleaded guilty to breaching the Data Protection Act 1998. Alan King and Paul Marshall pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit misconduct in a public office. John Gunning was convicted of acquiring private subscriber information from British Telecom's database. Most of the evidence obtained during these investigations remained unevaluated at Scotland Yard for ten years. Boyall's assistant was Glenn Mulcaire until the autumn of 2001, when \"News of the World's\" assistant editor, Greg Miskiw, attracted Mulcaire away by giving him a full-time contract to do work for the newspaper.\n\nIn August 2006, private investigator Glenn Mulcaire and \"News of the World\" Royal editor Clive Goodman were arrested. During their court proceedings, a small number of other victims of Mulcaire's phone hacking were mentioned, including Sky Andrew, Max Clifford, Simon Hughes, Elle Macpherson, and Gordon Taylor. On 29 November 2006, Goodman and Mulcaire pleaded guilty to conspiracy to intercept communications without lawful authority with respect to three of the royal aides. It was clear from court testimony that Mulcaire had hacked at least five other phones and that he did work for more than just Goodman.\n\nOn 15 May 2012, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) charged six individuals with conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Charged in relation to removal of documents and computers to conceal them from investigating detectives were former News International CEO Rebekah Brooks, her husband, her personal assistant, her bodyguard, her chauffeur and the head of security at News International. These charges were made about after the Metropolitan Police Service reopened its dormant investigation into phone hacking, about three years after the then Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police Service told the Commons Culture, Media and Sport Committee that \"no additional evidence has come to light,\" five years after News International executives began claiming that phone hacking was the work of a single \"rogue reporter,\" ten years after \"The Guardian\" began reporting that the Met had evidence of widespread illegal acquisition of confidential information, and 13 years after the Met began accumulating \"boxloads\" of that evidence but kept it unexamined in bin bags at Scotland Yard.\n\nOn 24 July 2012, charges were brought against eight former employees and agents of the \"News of the World\" including editors Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson. Of the thirteen suspects that had been referred to the Crown Prosecution Service by the Metropolitan Police Service for review under Operation Weeting, eight were charged with a total of nineteen charges, three were not to be pursued due to insufficient evidence, and two were to continue to be investigated. Seven of the eight were \"charged with conspiring to intercept communications without lawful authority from 3rd October 2000 to 9th August 2006.\" All eight were charged regarding illegal interception of communications relating to specific individuals\n\nThe trial \"R v Coulson, Brooks and others\" began in October 2013. In December 2013 the trial judge announced that Ian Edmondson was unwell and that his case would be considered at a separate hearing when he recovered.\n\nOn 24 June 2014 the trial jury found Coulson guilty of one charge of conspiracy to hack phones and failed to agree a verdict on two other charges in relation to the alleged purchase of confidential royal phone directories in 2005 from a police officer. Brooks and the five remaining defendants were found not guilty. On 30 June 2014 the trial judge announced that Coulson and Clive Goodman, would face a retrial on the outstanding charges.\n\nSentences were announced on 4 July 2014, with Coulson receiving 18 months imprisonment, former chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck and news editor Greg Miskiw sentences of six months each, former reporter James Weatherup a four-month suspended sentence and former private investigator Glenn Mulcaire a six-month suspended sentence. Weatherup and Mulcaire also received 200 hours of community service.\n\nOn 3 October 2014, Ian Edmondson pleaded guilty to conspiring with Glenn Mulcaire and others to intercept private voicemails between 3 October 2000 and 9 August 2006. Edmondson was jailed for eight months on 7 November 2014.\n\nThe scandal has triggered multiple investigations from various governmental agencies looking at other News Corporation-owned media outlets in addition to \"News of the World\".\n\nWith the unfolding scandal at the \"News of the World\" came allegations that another News Corporation-owned tabloid, \"The Sun\", itself engaged in phone hacking. In February 2011, the Metropolitan Police investigated the claims of Scottish trade union leader Andy Gilchrist, who accused \"The Sun\" of hacking into his mobile phone to run negative stories about him; the stories were published shortly after Rebekah Brooks was installed as the paper's editor.\n\nOn 5 July 2011, the head of the Press Complaints Commission Baroness Buscombe said in interview with Andrew Neil on the BBC programme \"The Daily Politics\", that she had been lied to by the \"News of the World\" over phone hacking. Buscombe said that she did not know the extent of the scandal when she joined the PCC in 2009, but stated that she had been \"misled by the News of the World\" after she had previously concluded just the opposite. Buscome further admitted that her statement put out in 2009, when the PCC had reviewed the 2007 evidence, that \"Having reviewed all the information available, we concluded that we were not materially misled;\" was now in hindsight incorrect. This led to Labour leader Ed Miliband calling the PCC a \"toothless poodle,\" and in agreement with Prime Minister David Cameron proposed the creation of a new press watchdog.\n\nOn 11 July, the day after the \"News of the World\" ceased publication, \"The Guardian\" reported that Scotland Yard was investigating both \"The Sun\" and \"The Sunday Times\" for illegally gaining access to the financial, phone, and legal records of former prime minister Gordon Brown. It was also reported that \"The Sun\" improperly obtained medical information on Brown's infant son to publish stories about his diagnosis of cystic fibrosis. Brown issued a statement saying that his family was \"shocked by the level of criminality and the unethical means by which personal details have been obtained.\" On 22 July, the satirical publication \"Private Eye\" reported that sometime between 2001 and 2004, a PR man for the BBC series \"EastEnders\" had suspected his voicemail was being intercepted. The \"Eye\" said that the man's suspicions were confirmed when he had a friend leave a voicemail concerning a fake story about \"EastEnders\", and that same evening received call from a \"Sun\" reporter declaring that they had \"proof\" of the fake story.\n\nOn 6 July 2011, Prime Minister David Cameron announced to parliament that a public government inquiry would convene to further investigate the affair. On 13 July, Cameron named Lord Justice Leveson as chairman of the inquiry, with a remit to look into the specific claims about phone hacking at the \"News of the World\", the initial police inquiry and allegations of illicit payments to police by the press, and a second inquiry to review the general culture and ethics of the British media.\n\nOn 20 July 2011, Cameron announced to Parliament the final terms of reference of Leveson's inquiry, stating that it will extend beyond newspapers to include broadcasters and social media. He also announced a panel of six people who will work with the judge on the inquiry:\n\nIt was subsequently reported in the media that Leveson had attended two parties in the prior 12 months at the London home of Matthew Freud, a PR executive married to Elisabeth Murdoch, the daughter of Rupert Murdoch.\n\nThe Home Affairs Select Committee (HASC) has taken various forms of evidence and undertaking during the whole affair, and continues to investigate various aspects as part of its normal parliamentary undertakings.\n\nOn the afternoon of 19 July 2011, the HASC took evidence from both holders of the position of the Director of Public Prosecutions, for the period which covered the scandal. Lord Macdonald, in charge of the Crown Prosecution Service when prosecution of Goodman and Mulcaire was undertaken, stated that he had only been alerted to the case due to the convention that the DPP is always notified of crimes involving the royal family. Committee member Mark Reckless, the then Conservative MP for Rochester and Strood, stated that the original 2007 police investigation and the 2009 review had both been hindered by the advice from the CPS, that \"phone hacking was only an offence if messages had been intercepted before they were listened to by the intended recipient;\" which was in fact incorrect. Current DPP Keir Starmer in evidence stated that the CPS had told the Metropolitan Police that \"the RIPA legislation was untested.\" Mark Lewis, the solicitor acting for a number of phone hacking victims including the family of Milly Dowler, stated in evidence that he was sacked from his job when fellow partners at his law firm stated they no longer wished to pursue other victims' claims. Lewis stated that he, \"The Guardian\" newspaper, and Labour MP Chris Bryant had all been threatened to be sued by solicitors Carter-Ruck acting for AC John Yates, all the costs for which after the actions were dropped were picked up by the Metropolitan Police; Lewis submitted letters from Carter Ruck in evidence to the committee. In closing, Lewis stated that the reason for the investigation having taken so long was not only due to the Metropolitan Police: \"The DPP seems to have got it wrong and needs to be helped out.\"\n\nOn 20 July 2011, the HASC published their completed report on the UK Parliament website. In that report, the Committee says:\nLewis, who is not connected with the Harbotte & Lewis firm, first engaged with \"News of the World\" in 2005 when it was moving to print a story asserting marital infidelity on Gordon Taylor's part. Lewis worked for George Davies Solicitors LLP in Manchester specialising in defamation cases and was able to persuade the paper not to run the story. In 2006, in the criminal trial over the hacking of royals' voicemail accounts, it became public that the paper had also hacked, among others, Taylor's voicemail. In his \"eureka moment\", Lewis realised then that it was hacked information which had led to the earlier story about Taylor. From that insight came the realisation that the paper had a potential civil liability from its hacking practices, and that led to Taylor's civil case. In 2011, working now with Taylor Hampton Solicitors in London, Lewis seems about to close a $4.7 million settlement in the Dowler case and has \"more than 70 clients who believe \"News of the World\" illegally intercepted their cellphone voice mails\", according to a \"Wall Street Journal\" story.\n\nThe Culture, Media and Sport Committee spent 6 September 2011 questioning four witnesses: the News of the World's former editor Colin Myler, News Group Newspapers' former legal manager Tom Crone, its former group human resources director, Daniel Cloke, and News International's former director of legal affairs, Jonathan Chapman:.\n\nIn September 2016, the Commons privileges committee stated that Colin Myler and Tom Crone had misled the Culture, Media and Sport Committee during that meeting by \"answering questions falsely\", and found them found in contempt of Parliament. Myler and Crone rejected this finding.\n\nThe Independent Police Complaints Commission has been charged or filed to perform various investigations. These presently include:\n\nOn 18 July 2011, it was announced that former parliamentary commissioner for standards Elizabeth Filkin would \"recommend changes to links between the police and the media, including how to extend transparency.\"\n\nIt was revealed that both John Whittingdale and Tom Watson may need to speak to James Murdoch again as the Commons culture select committee about recalling James Murdoch. An MP has released a letter from the now jailed journalist, alleging senior \"News of the World\" figures knew that the hacking scandal was going on, when the former royal editor, Clive Goodman, wrote his letter to News International as he appealed against his dismissal in 2007.\n\n\"The \"News of the World\" legal manager Tom Crone attended virtually every meeting of my legal team and was given full access to the Crown Prosecution Service's evidence files.\" according to Clive Goodman's letter.\n\nThe effect of the phone hacking scandal originating with the \"News of the World\" also raised wider questions about the ethics employed by companies under Murdoch's ownership, as well as the effects the scandal will have on the ethics employed specifically by print journalists and to some extent the wider world of journalism.\n\nMurdoch had previously been criticised for building a media empire that lacked any ethical base and replacing responsible journalism with \"gossip, sensationalism, and manufactured controversy.\" Karl Grossman, a professor of journalism at State University of New York at Old Westbury, accused Murdoch of building the most \"dishonest, unprincipled and corrupt\" media empire in history and of \"making a travesty of what journalism is supposed to be about.\" Grossman also claimed that News Corporation changes the culture of their newly acquired news outlets, using them to promote Murdoch's political and financial interests. Once-acclaimed newspapers such as the \"New York Post\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"The Times\" have been accused of becoming an \"instrument\" to aide politicians that Murdoch favours.\n\nIn \"Newsweek\" in July 2011, one of Murdoch's former top executives was quoted as saying: \"This scandal and all its implications could not have happened anywhere else. Only in Murdoch's orbit. The hacking at \"News of the World\" was done on an industrial scale. More than anyone, Murdoch invented and established this culture in the newsroom, where you do whatever it takes to get the story, take no prisoners, destroy the competition, and the end will justify the means.\" This same executive went on to say, \"In the end, what you sow is what you reap. Now Murdoch is a victim of the culture that he created. It is a logical conclusion, and it is his people at the top who encouraged lawbreaking and hacking phones and condoned it.\"\n\nIn 2010, it was also suggested that the journalistic approach of such newspapers at the \"News of the World\" had brought into public focus that there had been a shift away from the traditional ethics of journalism, raising serious questions about privacy, freedom of speech, and confidentiality. There were also observations in the North American Press about the ethics employed by the \"News of the World\". NBC New York noted that the old journalistic maxim, \"Get it first. But, first, get it right,\" although speaking for accurate reporting does not address the situation where in the case of the \"News of the World\" information was allegedly obtained in an unethical way or by illegal means. The approach was also criticised by Stephen B. Shepard, dean of the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism, who commenting on the phone hacking scandal, said: \"It's wrong. It's not a grey area. What they did was illegal and, even if it weren't, it's just plain wrong. There's no defence for it. Even the government needs a warrant to get into a house or a computer. You can't break into something like this and get away with it.\"\n\nPrime Minister David Cameron first intimated in early July 2011 that an investigation by Parliament on media ethics and standards will be carried out. Soon after he announced that two independent enquiries, led by a senior judge would take place. This led to anxieties being expressed by newspaper editors about the impact of state media regulation on the free press. There was also concerns amongst journalists that new regulations would be enacted as a means of reining in the press—\"an attack on the power of the press itself\"—rather than more effective self-regulation and ensuring a stricter enforcement of existing legislation to deter the use of phone hacking, breaches of privacy laws and bribery of public officials. A further major concern was expressed that more stringent regulation will not assist the ordinary people who were the subject of investigative journalism, whereas powerful corporations will still have the money, power, and resources to get out of any tough situation they might encounter.\n\nThe consequences of the exposure of ethical transgressions that occurred at \"News of the World\" have also led to concerns that such practices could be happening at other News Corporation titles in Britain. Furthermore, there has been speculation that American news companies that are a part of Rupert Murdoch's media empire may have become implicated.\n\nIn July 2011 the Ethical Investment Advisory Group (EIAG) of the Church of England, England's Established church, issued a statement stating that \"The behaviour of the News of the World has been utterly reprehensible and unethical.\" In August 2012 the EIAG further announced that it had no confidence in News Corporation's stated intention of returning to ethical practices, and that as a result all Church of England organisations would cease investment in News Corporation. In practical terms this involved the Church Commissioners and the Church of England Pensions Board in selling shareholdings valued at around £1.9 million.\n\nIn light of News Corporations global review, John Hartigan, the CEO of News Corporation's Australian company News Limited, announced a review of all payments in the previous three years, and that he was personally willing to co-operate with any Australian Government led inquiry. The Australian Green party called for a parliamentary inquiry into News Limited, but Hartigan directly denied allegations by both the Greens and the governing Labor party that News Limited has been running a campaign against them, describing his group's journalism as \"aggressive but fair.\"\n\nWhile the scope of the enquiry was yet to be finalised, a spokesman for the Communications Minister, Stephen Conroy, said that the current administration under the Labor Party had decided that an investigation was required.\n\nThe News Limited chairman, John Hartigan, vowed full co-operation with the government inquiry.\n\nIn the United States, where News Corporation is headquartered and operates multiple media outlets, the Federal Bureau of Investigation launched a probe on 14 July 2011, to determine whether News Corporation accessed voicemails of victims of the 9/11 attacks. On 15 July, US Attorney General Eric Holder announced an additional investigation by the Department of Justice, looking into whether the company had violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.\n\nNews Corporation owns a multitude of news outlets in the United States, including the \"New York Post\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and the Fox News Channel. Several media critics have called for investigations into whether they too engaged in phone hacking activities. In addition to any possible illegal activities in the US, News Corporation and/or its executives might also face civil and criminal liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.\n\nIn 2005 US Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) wrote to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales after a small New Jersey marketing company called FLOORgraphics alleged that News America Marketing engaged in illegal computer espionage by breaking into password protected computer systems and obtaining confidential information.\n\nFurther controversy was aroused by an unsigned editorial in the News Corporation-owned \"Wall Street Journal\" which lashed out against the company's critics, specifically mentioning the BBC, \"The Guardian\" and the news website ProPublica. At the same time, the editorial praised former \"Journal\" publisher Les Hinton, who had just resigned in the wake of the phone hacking scandal. Many observers were frustrated by \"The Wall Street Journal\" comments. In tweets, Jay Rosen, professor of journalism at New York University, referred to the \"deluded dishonest whining victimology delivered in the form of a Wall Street Journal editorial on the phone hacking crisis\" and Sarah Ellison of \"Vanity Fair\" commented: \"Tonite's WSJ Editorial is sad. I've always defended the Edit page, but now It's a PR arm.\"\n\nKey events in the scandal to date:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16509633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16509633", "title": "Nostalgia Night", "text": "Nostalgia Night\n\nIn Uruguay, the Nostalgia Night (Spanish: \"Noche de la Nostalgia\") is celebrated every 24th of August. Every dancing club, broadcasting station and many other events play \"nostalgic music\" (oldies).\n\nIts origins are somehow disputed. It started in the 24 August 1978. According to José Fernández, owner of the Disco Ton Ton Metek, as every 24 August is the day before Uruguayan Independence Day, a national holiday, once he proposed to Pablo Lecueder (director of the broadcast program Old Hits, in the then CX32 Radiomundo) to do something in a night that could be commercially profitable.\n\nThat same year, the 24 August at night (disputed) in Ton Ton was held the first Nostalgia Night. The night repeated its success and become part of Uruguayan folklore.\n\nUruguayans are said to be typically nostalgic. Be it for that or for whatever reason, the Nostalgia Night is such a success that it was officially named by the Ministry of Tourism.\n"}
{"id": "6350277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6350277", "title": "Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival (formerly Summer Shakespeare) at the University of Notre Dame is an annual festival that seeks to combine professional productions of the works of William Shakespeare with community outreach and educational programs. The Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival is a part of the University of Notre Dame's Shakespeare initiative entitled \"Shakespeare at Notre Dame\", a program that recognizes the centrality of the study of Shakespeare in humanistic pedagogy at the University. Its fifteenth season (summer of 2014) was known as the 15/150, also celebrating the 450th birthday of William Shakespeare, and the 150th anniversary of the first full production of Shakespeare at the university in 1864 (Records indicate the first performance of Shakespeare at the University of Notre Dame took place in 1847, a collection of scenes also from \"Henry IV).\" The anniversary season consisted of the Professional Company production of \"Henry IV\" (directed by Michael Goldberg), the Young Company performance of \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\" (directed by West Hyler), and the annual ShakeScenes shows featuring actors of all ages from South Bend and the surrounding community.\n\nThe Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival, (the professional theatre in residence at the University of Notre Dame), is a direct outgrowth of an experimental course called \"Shakespeare in Performance\" created in 1989 by Dr. Paul Rathburn, NDSF's founder. The premise of this course was that Shakespeare's works are both theatrical scripts and literary texts and are illuminated best through work in both the theater and in the classroom. It began in the summer of 2000 with the program's inaugural production, \"The Taming of the Shrew\", but has since evolved to include guest artists and productions, the ShakeScenes community program, and a Young Company production produced and staffed entirely by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Following the 2005 production of \"Henry V\", Dr. Paul Rathburn retired from his role as Producing Artistic Director. The company's Artistic Director from 2006 - 2012 was Jay Paul Skelton. The current Ryan Producing Artistic Director for the Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival is Grant Mudge. The resident lighting designer for the festival since its inception has been ND Associate Professor Kevin Dreyer.\n\nArguably the centerpiece of the annual festival, the professional company production consists of a professionally mounted performance of one of the plays of William Shakespeare. The production is always directed and designed by theatrical professionals, typically from either the Chicago theatre world or the University's own faculty and staff. A number of professional actors are also employed, as well as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and South Bend community members. The integration of professional actors and designers with students creates a unique opportunity for those students who wish to pursue theatre as a profession following their graduation. In recent years, students and professionals from other universities such as Ball State University, the University of Minnesota's BFA program affiliated with the Guthrie Theater, and Northwestern University have participated in NDSF.\n\n\"The Taming of the Shrew\", 2000\n\n\"Much Ado About Nothing\", 2001\n\n\"The Tempest\", 2002\n\n\"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", 2003\n\n\"Romeo and Juliet\", 2004 (directed by William Brown)\n\n\"Henry V\", 2005 (directed by William Brown)\n\n\"The Comedy of Errors\", 2006 (directed by William Brown)\n\n\"Love's Labor's Lost\", 2007 (directed by Jay Paul Skelton)\n\n\"Macbeth\", 2008 (directed by Karen Kessler)\n\n\"Twelfth Night\", 2009 (directed by David H. Bell)\n\n\"Cymbeline\", 2010 (directed by Jay Paul Skelton)\n\n\"The Merchant of Venice\", 2011 (directed by David H. Bell)\n\n\"Hamlet\", 2012 (directed by David H. Bell)\n\n\"Richard III\", 2013 (directed by Laura Gordon)\n\n\"Henry IV\", 2014 (directed by Michael Goldberg)\n\n\"The Winter's Tale\", 2015 (directed by Drew Fracher)\n\nBeginning with 2003's production, the student actors and technicians in the professional company production were given the chance to perform in a production produced entirely by them (though directed by a senior company member). The roles in the Young Company performance are necessarily larger both on and offstage - the professional company's Assistant to the Technical Director may become the Young Company Technical Director, while a student playing First Soldier may have a chance to play King Richard III. Although in the past Young Company performances have taken place on the same set used for the professional company performance, 2006 saw the introduction of \"green shows\", performances in which Young Company members traveled to local parks in South Bend and the surrounding community.\n\n\"Shakespeare on Love\", adapted by R. John Roberts, 2003\n\n\"Shakespeare on Comedy: A Vaudeville\", adapted by R. John Roberts, 2004\n\n\"Falstaff's Dream\", adapted by Susan Hart, 2005 (directed by Susan Hart)\n\n\"The Brothers Menaechmus\", by Plautus, translated by Richard Pryor with further adaptation by Jay Paul Skelton, 2006, (directed by Jay Paul Skelton)\n\n\"The Learned Ladies\", by Molière, directed by Kevin Asselin, 2007\n\n\"The Witch\", by Thomas Middleton, directed by Kevin Asselin, 2008\n\n\"The Deceived\" or \"Gl'ingannati\", by Accademia degli Intronati of Siena (translation by Ken Rea), directed by Kevin Asselin, 2009\n\n\"The Taming of the Shrew\", by William Shakespeare, directed by Kevin Asselin, 2010\n\n\"As You Like It\", by William Shakespeare, directed by Kevin Asselin, 2011\n\n\"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", by William Shakespeare, directed by Kevin Asselin, 2012\n\n\"The Comedy of Errors\", by William Shakespeare, directed by Kevin Asselin, 2013\n\nShakeScenes is NDSF's community outreach program, employing local theatre troupes and schools to perform selected scenes from Shakespeare's works. The coordinating director for ShakeScenes from its inception until 2012 was Deborah Girasek-Chudzynski of South Bend's Stanley Clark School. In 2012, the baton was passed to Christy Burgess, the Shakespeare Outreach Program Director at Notre Dame's Robinson Community Learning Center. Participants range in age from 7 to 70, and scene directors are usually educators from local grade schools, high schools, colleges, and directors of area civic theatres. These individuals cast and direct their respective scenes as well as facilitate costumes, props, and choreography. All members of the ShakeScenes company attend acting workshops taught by local and national theatre artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "43980262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43980262", "title": "Oulu International Children's and Youth Film Festival", "text": "Oulu International Children's and Youth Film Festival\n\nOulu International Children's and Youth Film Festival () is an annual children's film festival held in November in Oulu, Finland. The festival has been founded in 1982 by the Oulu Film Centre.\n\nThere has been Children's Film competition at the festival since 1992. The jury of ten children chooses the best film and the Starboy Award is granted to the director of the film. Other awards are the ECFA Award for the best European film, the For Tomorrow Award to the best youth film and a prize of the Media Foundation of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland for a Finnish feature or short film at the film festival. The main venue for the festival is the Cultural Centre Valve in the city centre, films are also shown in the Finnkino cinema.\n"}
{"id": "35141816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35141816", "title": "Outlook festival", "text": "Outlook festival\n\nOutlook Festival is a musical event, started as a subsidiary of Leeds event SubDub, hosting all kinds of bass music held just outside the city of Pula, Croatia. Although held in Croatia, many of the attendees come from the United Kingdom as do much of the team involved in organizing the festival. Held in Fort Punta Christo and the surrounding beaches the festival is unique in its setting, with sound systems and stages being erected in various tunnels and even the moat of the abandoned ruins.\n\nThe festival also plays host to a number of boat parties which feature artists from the festival and sail around the Adriatic coastline playing more individual selections of music that other stages around the festival.\n\nThe 2011 edition of the festival saw an increase of almost double the capacity and the introduction of a number of new stages. This led to mixed reviews from attendees of the previous festival, some of whom preferred the more intimate setting, however the larger audience allowed festival organisers to book some relatively exclusive artists who perhaps may not have been within the budget otherwise.\n\nPast performers include Skream, Benga, Digital Mystikz, Johnny Clarke, Pharoahe Monch, Horace Andy, David Rodigan, Jamie xx, Shy FX, Friction, Dawn Penn, Iration Steppas, P Money, Plastician, Phi Life Cypher, Phaeleh, Channel One, Eksman, Gentleman's Dub Club, Congo Natty, Jehst and Foreign Beggars.\n\nThe UK Festival Awards gave Outlook the title of ‘Best Overseas Festival’ in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1187635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1187635", "title": "Party plan", "text": "Party plan\n\nThe party plan is a method of marketing products by hosting what is presented as a social event at which products will be offered for sale. It is a form of direct selling. The primary system for generating sales leads for home party plan sales is the home party itself: the salesperson uses the home party business model as a source for future business by asking attendees if they would like to host selling parties, too.\n\nDirect selling through the party plan typically uses multi-level marketing (salesperson is paid for selling and for sales made by people he recruits or sponsors) rather than single-level marketing (salesperson is paid only for the sales he makes himself).\n\nThis plan has been used primarily to sell items whose main appeal is to women by women, such as kitchen utensils, home decor items, jewelry, cosmetics, handbags, and similar products. Recent additions to the field include lingerie, wine, and sex toys. Sometimes a combination party is held, at which a wide variety of such merchandise is offered for sale.\n\nIn this system, representatives of the sales organization, almost invariably women, approach other women about hosting a social event in their homes during which a product will be demonstrated and offered for sale to guests. In consideration, they will be given hostess gifts and a portion of the proceeds from the amount of goods sold. Frequently all in attendance will be given a token item of nominal value as an incentive to attend.\n\nAt the event, the salesperson displays and demonstrates various products. She then takes orders from attendees. The salesperson is almost always paid solely a commission on sales. If the salesperson has recruited other sales people into the organization, then she also receives a commission based on her recruits' sales.\n\nThe party plan is regarded as primarily the invention of Norman W. Squires, who developed it for Stanley Home Products in Westfield, MA, which company was founded by Stanley Beveridge and Catherine O'Brien in the mid-1930s. Mr. Beveridge and Ms. O'Brien were former employees of the Fuller Brush Company, which sold its products with door-to-door salespersons.\n\nThe party plan is criticized for exploiting social conventions and pressuring \"guests\" into buying things they do not want.\n\nPurse parties that are not done through a dedicated program by the manufacturer differ, however, from these other parties in that the merchandise at these parties often consists of counterfeit knock-offs of popular, name-brand purses. Merchandise at American purse parties is usually bought in bulk from smugglers in New York's Chinatown or in Los Angeles' garment district and sold to unsuspecting customers at a significantly higher price, although still lower than the retail price of the legitimate product. These inferior smuggled goods have been linked to organized crime and the funding of terrorism, so purse parties have become of interest to law enforcement. Selling such purses, with an imitation designer label, is a US federal crime called trafficking in counterfeit goods, even if the seller tells the buyer that the purse is a fake.\n"}
{"id": "61207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61207", "title": "Potsdam Declaration", "text": "Potsdam Declaration\n\nThe Potsdam Declaration or the Proclamation Defining Terms for Japanese Surrender was a statement that called for the surrender of all Japanese armed forces during World War II. On July 26, 1945, United States President Harry S. Truman, United Kingdom Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and Chairman of the Nationalist Government of China Chiang Kai-shek issued the document, which outlined the terms of surrender for the Empire of Japan as agreed upon at the Potsdam Conference. This ultimatum stated that, if Japan did not surrender, it would face \"prompt and utter destruction\".\n\nOn July 26, the United States, Britain, and China released the Potsdam Declaration announcing the terms for Japan's surrender, with the warning, \"We will not deviate from them. There are no alternatives. We shall brook no delay.\" For Japan, the terms of the declaration specified:\n\nOn the other hand, the declaration offered that:\n\nThe mention of \"unconditional surrender\" came at the end of the declaration:\n\nContrary to what had been intended at its conception, which was to disenfranchise the Japanese leadership so the people would accept a mediated transition, instead the declaration made no direct mention of the Emperor at all. It did, however, insist that \"the authority and influence of those who have deceived and misled the people of Japan into embarking on world conquest must be eliminated for all time\". Allied intentions on issues of utmost importance to the Japanese, including the extent and number of Allied \"occupation points\", the fate of Japan's minor islands, and the extent to which the Allies planned to \"control\" Japan's \"raw materials\", as well as whether Hirohito was to be regarded as one of those who had \"misled the people of Japan\" or whether the Emperor might potentially become part of \"a peacefully inclined and responsible government\", were thus left unstated, essentially a blank check for the Allies.\n\nThe \"prompt and utter destruction\" clause has been interpreted as a veiled warning about American possession of the atomic bomb which had been successfully tested in New Mexico on July 16, 1945, the day before the Potsdam Conference opened. Although the document warned of further destruction like the \"Operation Meetinghouse\" raid on Tokyo and other carpetbombing of Japanese cities, it did not mention anything about the atomic bomb.\n\nA major aspect relating to the Potsdam Declaration was that it was intended to be ambiguous. It is not clear from the document itself whether a Japanese government was to remain under Allied occupation or whether the occupation would be run by a foreign military government. In the same manner, it was not clear whether after the end of the occupation Japan was to include any territory other than the four main Japanese islands, i.e., whether the set or sets of islands potentially satisfying the description \"such minor islands as [the Allies] determine\" included the empty set. This ambiguity was intentional on the part of the U.S. government in order to allow the Allies a free hand in running the affairs of Japan afterwards.\n\nThe Declaration was released to the press in Potsdam on the evening of July 26 and simultaneously transmitted to the Office of War Information (OWI) in Washington. By 5 p.m. Washington time, OWI's West Coast transmitters, aimed at the Japanese home islands, were broadcasting the text in English, and two hours later began broadcasting it in Japanese. Simultaneously, American bombers dropped over 3 million leaflets describing the declaration over Japan. The Declaration was never transmitted to the Japanese government through diplomatic channels. Although picking up enemy propaganda leaflets and listening to foreign radio broadcasts (in Japan) was illegal, the American propaganda efforts were successful in making the key points of the declaration known to most Japanese.\n\nThe terms of the declaration were hotly debated within the Japanese government. Upon receiving the declaration, Foreign Minister Shigenori Tōgō hurriedly met with Prime Minister Kantarō Suzuki and Cabinet Secretary Hisatsune Sakomizu. Sakomizu recalled that all felt the declaration must be accepted. Despite being sympathetic to accepting the terms, Tōgō felt it was vague concerning the eventual form of government for Japan, disarmament, and the fate of accused war criminals, and still had hope that the Soviet Union would agree to mediate negotiations with the Western Allies to obtain clarifications and revisions of the declaration's terms. Shortly afterwards, Tōgō met with Emperor Hirohito, and advised him to treat the declaration with the utmost circumspection, but that a reply should be postponed until the Soviet response to the Japanese request to mediate peace. Hirohito stated that the declaration was \"acceptable in principle\". Meanwhile, the Supreme Council for the Direction of the War met the same day to discuss the declaration. War Minister Korechika Anami, General Yoshijirō Umezu, and Admiral Teijirō Toyoda opposed accepting the declaration, arguing that the terms were \"too dishonorable\", and advised that the Japanese government openly reject it. Suzuki, Tōgō, and Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai leaned towards accepting it, but agreed that clarification was needed over the status of the Emperor. Tōgō's suggestion that the government not respond until it received the Soviet response was accepted.\n\nAt a press conference with the Japanese press in Tokyo, Suzuki stated that the Japanese policy towards the declaration would be one of , which the United States interpreted as meaning \"rejection by ignoring\", leading to a decision by the White House to carry out the threat of destruction. Subsequent to the White House decision, the United States Army Air Forces dropped the first atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, and then the second atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Nagasaki three days later on August 9, 1945. These two bombings devastated the two cities, killing an estimated 129,000–246,000 people and destroying much of the cities' infrastructure as well as military bases and war industries in a matter of seconds in a radius that stretched for more than 1 mile (1.6 kilometers).\n\nHowever, the word \"mokusatsu\" can also mean \"withholding comment\". Since World War II, it has been alleged that the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were attributable to English translations of \"mokusatsu\" having misrepresented Suzuki as rejecting the terms of the Potsdam Declaration; however, this claim is not universally accepted.\n\nIn a widely broadcast speech after the bombing of Hiroshima, which was picked up by Japanese news agencies, President Truman warned that if Japan failed to accept the terms of the Potsdam Declaration it could \"expect a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth\". As a result, Prime Minister Suzuki felt compelled to meet the Japanese press, to whom he reiterated his government's commitment to ignore the Allies' demands and fight on. The extent of the Allies' demands brought home to the Japanese leaders and people the extent of the success Japan's enemies had achieved in the war. Subsequent to the receipt of the Potsdam Declaration, the Japanese Government attempted to maintain the issue of the Emperor's administrative prerogative within the Potsdam Declaration through its surrender offer of August 10, but in the end had to take comfort with Secretary of State James F. Byrnes' reply \"From the moment of surrender the authority of the Emperor and the Japanese Government to rule the state shall be subject to the Supreme Commander of the Allied powers who will take such steps as he deems proper to effectuate the surrender terms.\" Thus, at 1200 JST on August 15, 1945, the Emperor announced his acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration, which culminated in the surrender documents signature on board the on September 2, 1945. The radio announcement to the Japanese people was the first time many of them had actually heard the voice of the Emperor.\n\nOn August 9, 1945, Stalin, based on a secret agreement at the Yalta Conference in February, unilaterally abrogated the USSR's Neutrality Treaty with Japan (1941) and declared war on Japan on August 9, 1945, beginning the Soviet–Japanese War. The Soviets invaded Manchuria on three fronts. \n\nThe Potsdam Declaration was intended from the start to serve as legal basis for handling Japan after the war. Following the surrender of the Japanese government and the landing of General McArthur in Japan in September 1945, the Potsdam Declaration served as legal basis for occupation reforms.\n\n"}
{"id": "540172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540172", "title": "Quickstep", "text": "Quickstep\n\nThe quickstep is a light-hearted dance of the standard ballroom dances. The movement of the dance is fast and powerfully flowing and sprinkled with syncopations. The upbeat melodies that quickstep is danced to make it suitable for both formal and informal events. Quickstep was developed in the 1920s in New York City and was first danced by Caribbean and African dancers. Its origins are in combination of slow foxtrot combined with the Charleston, a dance which was one of the precursors to what today is called swing dancing.\n\nThe quickstep evolved in the 1920s from a combination of the foxtrot, Charleston, shag, peabody, and one-step. The dance is English in origin and was standardized in 1927. While it evolved from the foxtrot, the quickstep now is quite separate. Unlike the modern foxtrot, the man often closes his feet, and syncopated steps are regular occurrences (as was the case in early foxtrot). Three characteristic dance figures of the quickstep are the chassés, where the feet are brought together, the quarter turns, and the lock step.\n\nThis dance gradually evolved into a very dynamic one with a lot of movement on the dance floor, with many advanced patterns including hops, runs, quick steps with a lot of momentum, and rotation. The tempo of quickstep dance is rather brisk, as it was developed to ragtime era jazz music, which is fast-paced when compared to other dance music.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century the complexity of quickstep as done by advanced dancers had increased, with the extensive use of syncopated steps with eighth note durations. While in older times quickstep patterns were counted with \"quick\" (one beat) and \"slow\" (two beats) steps, many advanced patterns today are cued with split beats, such as \"quick-and-quick-and-quick, quick, slow\", with there being further steps on the 'and's.\n\nThe quickstep is elegant like the foxtrot and should be smooth and glamorous. The dancers should appear to be very light on their feet. It is very energetic and form-intensive.\nThe quickstep is danced to 4/4 music of 48-52 measures per minute.\n\nThe two International Style syllabi of ISTD and IDTA for quickstep differ very little.\n\nThe American Style dance competition program does not include quickstep, but a limited version of the dance is taught and danced socially in some American dance venues.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47018448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47018448", "title": "Red Earth Festival", "text": "Red Earth Festival\n\nThe Red Earth Festival is a Native American cultural festival that takes places every June in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, United States. Red Earth, Inc. is the nonprofit organization that hosts the festival and maintained the Red Earth Art Center, which houses temporary exhibits and a permanent collection of Native American art in downtown Oklahoma City.\n\nRed Earth, Inc., was founded in 1987, when art advocates planned a Native art market and powwow. The organization grew out of the Native-run Center of the American Indian, a cultural center and art museum founded in 1978. The two groups merged in 1992 to create Red Earth.\n\nThe festival is a multi-day event beginning with a parade through downtown Oklahoma City. It features an art market open to Native American members of federal and state recognized tribes. The festival also features nonprofit and educational booths, gourd dancing, and a powwow. Typically it takes place in the Cox Convention Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "185264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185264", "title": "Star Wars Holiday Special", "text": "Star Wars Holiday Special\n\nThe Star Wars Holiday Special is a 1978 American musical science fiction television film set in the \"Star Wars\" galaxy. It stars the original film's main cast, Chewbacca's family, and introduces Boba Fett, who would appear in later films. It is the first official \"Star Wars\" spin-off film and was directed by Steve Binder.\n\nIn the storyline that ties the special together, following the events of the original film, Chewbacca and Han Solo attempt to visit the Wookiee home world to celebrate \"Life Day\". They are pursued by agents of the Galactic Empire, who are searching for members of the Rebel Alliance on the planet. The special introduces three members of Chewbacca's family: his father Itchy, his wife Malla, and his son Lumpy.\n\nThe program also features the rest of the main \"Star Wars\" characters, including Luke Skywalker, C-3PO, R2-D2, Darth Vader and Princess Leia, all portrayed by the original cast. The program includes footage from the 1977 film, and a cartoon produced by Toronto-based Nelvana featuring the bounty hunter Boba Fett. A few scenes take place in space and in spacecraft including the \"Millennium Falcon\" and a Star Destroyer. The variety show segments and cartoon also take place in a few other locales, such as the Mos Eisley cantina seen in the original film, and a newly introduced red ocean planet known as Panna.\n\nThe special is notorious for its extremely negative reception and has never been rebroadcast or officially released on home video. It has, therefore, become something of a cultural legend, because of the underground quality of its existence. It has been viewed and distributed in off-air recordings made from its original telecast by fans as bootleg copies, and later adapted to content-sharing websites.\n\nOn Life Day, Chewbacca, accompanied by Han Solo, is headed home to see his family. Along the way, the duo are chased by two Star Destroyers, but they escape into hyperspace.\n\nMeanwhile, on Kashyyyk, Chewbacca's family is preparing for his return. Hoping to find the \"Millennium Falcon\", his wife, Malla, runs a computer scan for starships in the area but is unsuccessful. Malla contacts Luke Skywalker, who, along with R2-D2, is working on his X-wing starfighter. Luke tells her that he does not know what happened. Malla contacts Saun Dann, a local human trader. He tells her through a carefully worded message that Han and Chewbacca are on their way and should be arriving soon. Malla then attempts (unsuccessfully) to prepare a meal, the instructions of which are being aired via a local cooking show by an eccentric four-armed alien cook, Chef Gormaanda (Harvey Korman).\n\nSaun arrives with Life Day gifts for everyone, including a virtual reality fantasy program (featuring Diahann Carroll) for Itchy. Back on the \"Falcon\", Chewbacca and Han have just come out of hyperspace not far from Kashyyyk. Han notices an increased Imperial presence, so they decide to land in an unguarded area to the north. As they enter the atmosphere, Lumpy hears the roaring of the ship. Believing Han and Chewie might be arriving, Malla opens the door, but instead finds two stormtroopers and officers.\n\nThe Imperials force their way into the house. An officer orders a search for Chewbacca. As they search, Saun and the others attempt to distract them with food and Malla's music video box (which features a video by Jefferson Starship). When the music finishes, the head officer orders the search to continue. The head officer tells Malla to keep Lumpy busy while they search his room, so Lumpy (and the viewing audience) watches a cartoon on a viewscreen of one of his father's many adventures:\n\nWhen the cartoon finishes, Lumpy works to create a translation device from his Amorphian machine that will fool the Imperials into returning to their base by faking their commander's voice. To do so, he first must watch the manual for the device, being presented by a malfunctioning, incompetent robot (also played by Korman).\n\nWhile the Imperials are searching downstairs, the living room viewscreen activates, announcing that Tatooine is now being put under curfew by the Empire, because of \"subversive forces\". The video is announced as required viewing for all Imperial forces and much of it features Ackmena (Bea Arthur) running the Mos Eisley cantina. Ackmena is approached by an admirer: Krelman, an amorous alien, who has misunderstood something she said to him recently. When the Empire announces the curfew, Ackmena announces last call, and when she is ignored, sings \"Good Night, But Not Goodbye\".\n\nLumpy uses this opportunity to put his plan into motion, faking a repeated call for the Imperials to \"return to base.\" They leave, but one stormtrooper stays behind and realizes they were tricked. He finds Lumpy and destroys the machine, then chases Lumpy outside.\n\nAs they both run onto the deck, Han and Chewbacca arrive. Chewie protects Lumpy as Han dispatches the stormtrooper. After they are reunited, an Imperial officer appears on the viewscreen, giving a general alert for the missing stormtrooper. Saun quickly responds that the trooper stole supplies and deserted. The danger averted, the family prepares to go to the festival at the great Tree of Life. They hold glowing orbs, and appear in space wearing red robes.\n\nWookiees walk into a bright star and arrive at the Tree of Life, where many are gathered, including C-3PO and R2-D2. Luke, Leia, and Han also appear. Leia gives a short speech and sings a song in celebration. Chewie remembers his adventures during the events of the original film. Finally, the Wookiee family sits around a table and bows their heads.\n\n\nKenny Baker, who played in the films, was not involved in the special. The droid was performed entirely by a radio-controlled unit, operated by Mick Garris (Lucas's receptionist). In the credits, R2-D2 is credited by announcer Art James as playing himself.\n\nBecause James Earl Jones was originally uncredited in \"Star Wars\", the special marked the first time he was credited as the voice of Darth Vader.\n\nMalla's mask was repurposed from a Chewbacca mask from the original film. The names of Chewbacca's family were later explained to have been nicknames, their full names being Mallatobuck (Malla), Attichitcuk (Itchy), and Lumpawarrump or Lumpawaroo (Lumpy).\n\nWhile outlining the original \"Star Wars\" and planning its potential sequels, Lucas imagined a \"film just about Wookiees, nothing else.\" After the original film's success, its cast made a few appearances on TV variety shows. According to Charles Lippincott, who was head of marketing of the Star Wars Corporation, CBS brought the idea of doing a TV special to him and Lucas, although there is some internal dispute about this claim. According to J.W. Rinzler, \"Everybody agreed that a television special was a good idea.\" Lucas was busy moving his production company to a new location, which was not heavily involved in the special. Though Lucas is uncredited, it was his idea to build the narrative around Chewbacca's family.\n\nCBS hired experienced variety show writers and producers. Writer Bruce Vilanch was concerned about the decision to center the special on a species who grunt in a fictional language without subtitles, and feared that the special would turn into \"one long episode of \"Lassie\".\" Regardless, Lucas would not budge on his vision. The special went through two directors. The first, David Acomba, was brought in through an attempt to \"make us different in variety shows\", according to Lippencott. Acomba, a classmate of George Lucas at USC film school, was unfamiliar with a multiple-camera setup, which caused some problems. Acomba also felt that there was a divide between himself and the producers, and chose to leave the project after finishing only a few scenes, including the cantina and Jefferson Starship. He was replaced by Steve Binder, whose only contact with Lucasfilm was a \"Wookiee bible\" detailing how the species should look and behave. Stan Winston was hired to design the Wookiee family.\n\nThe special was broadcast in its entirety in the United States only once, on Friday, November 17, 1978 (the week before Thanksgiving), on the television network CBS from 8:00 pm to 10:00 pm, Eastern Standard Time (EST), pre-empting \"Wonder Woman\" and \"The Incredible Hulk\". It was also broadcast on the Canadian television network CTV from 7:00 pm to 9:00 pm, Eastern Standard Time., in New Zealand on TVNZ, and in Australia on the Seven Network.\n\nThe \"Star Wars Holiday Special\" has become notorious for its extremely negative reception, both by \"Star Wars\" fans and the general public. Anthony Daniels, in a documentary promoting the worldwide tour of \"Star Wars: In Concert\", notes with a laugh that the \"Star Wars\" universe includes \"The horrible \"Holiday Special\" that nobody talks about\". Nathan Rabin of \"The A.V. Club\" wrote, \"I'm not convinced the special wasn’t ultimately written and directed by a sentient bag of cocaine.\" George Lucas did not have significant involvement with the film's production and was reportedly unhappy with the results; however, Patty Maloney, who played Lumpy, stated in 2008 that Lucas was sent dailies of each day's shooting for approval.\n\nDavid Hofstede, author of \"What Were They Thinking?: The 100 Dumbest Events in Television History\", ranked the holiday special at number one, calling it \"the worst two hours of television ever\". Shepard Smith, a news anchor for the Fox News Channel, referred to it as a \"'70s train wreck, combining the worst of \"Star Wars\" with the utter worst of variety television.\" On the review-aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film received a 33% approval rating, based on nine reviews, with an average rating of 3.5/10.\n\nIn December 2018, a comedy play will be released about the special's production, entitled \"Special\".\n\nThe special was ranked at #3 in \"The Five Goofiest Moments of the Star Wars Mythos\" in the 62nd issue of UK's \"Star Wars\" magazine. \"TV Guide\" ranked it at number 11 on their \"25 Most Hilarious Holiday TV Moments\", mentioning that it was \"unintentionally hilarious.\" Both \"TV Guide\" and TV Land ranked the special at #59 on their \"Top 100 Unexpected Television Moments\" in a five-part special that aired from December 5 until December 9, 2005. In a 2008 online poll on Christmas specials by the Paley Center for Media, \"The Star Wars Holiday Special\" was selected to be shown at the Center by 59% of the voters (who selected 5 titles each). It beat \"A Charlie Brown Christmas\" (34.6%), \"How the Grinch Stole Christmas!\" (31.3%) and \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\" (28.4%), among others.\n\nGeorge Lucas himself disliked the special. In a May 2005 interview, Lucas was asked if the film had soured him on working in television. He replied:\nThe official \"Star Wars\" site states that the special \"delivered mixed results\" and states that its highlight was the Boba Fett animated segment. The official site also says, when referring to the fan interest in seeing the Wookiees on screen, \"the 1978 Holiday Special didn't cut it.\" The official site also refers to the Boba Fett animated segment as \"a cult classic\". In 2006, Harrison Ford made an appearance on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", and claimed to have never seen it.\n\nOn the 2010 television program \"Times Talk\", \"New York Times\" columnist David Carr asked Carrie Fisher about the special; she said that she made George Lucas give her a copy of the special in exchange for recording commentary for the \"Star Wars\" trilogy so that she would \"have something for parties...when [she] wanted everyone to leave.\" In 2018, Mark Hamill admitted to not having seen the entire special.\n\nAll the acts were loosely linked together with material which involves the Wookiees' preparation for Life Day on Kashyyyk, Han and Chewie's attempt to bypass the Imperial blockade and make it to Chewie's family, and the Imperial garrison's search for rebels. The plot strings together a series of musical numbers, celebrity cameos and other variety show acts. These include songs and comedy routines by such 1970s talents as Jefferson Starship, Diahann Carroll, Art Carney, Harvey Korman and Bea Arthur, and a circus-style acrobatics routine including uneven bars and juggling. The most notable segment is an animated cartoon featuring the onscreen debut of Boba Fett.\n\nOriginal music was composed for \"The Star Wars Holiday Special\" by Ken and Mitzie Welch, while Ian Fraser was brought in to adapt John Williams' orchestral themes from \"Star Wars\". The special features four songs:\n\nHarvey Korman provides comedy in three of the special's skits, including the cantina skit with Bea Arthur where he plays a barfly who drinks through a hole in the top of his head. He also performs two solo routines: one as Chef Gormanda, a four-armed parody of Julia Child (the four arms allow her to work much faster than Malla can keep up with) and one as a malfunctioning Amorphian android in an instruction video watched by Lumpy. Art Carney has a more integral role in the story, playing a trader named Saun Dann on Kashyyyk who is a member of the rebellion and helps Chewie's family. His segments are also largely played for laughs and at one point includes a scene alluding to his character Ed Norton from \"The Honeymooners\", where an Imperial officer demands that he \"get on with it\" while Carney dallies with a prop, thus introducing the Jefferson Starship performance.\n\nThe high point of the special is generally considered to be the animated segment known as \"The Faithful Wookiee\", which is the first official \"Star Wars\" cartoon ever made. It was written by Lucas and produced by Toronto animation firm Nelvana Ltd., which would later produce \"\" and \"Ewoks\", two Saturday-morning series based on the franchise in the mid-1980s. The visual style was inspired by Moebius, and it features the vocal talents of the main cast. Intended as an in-universe flashback, Luke Skywalker wears a yellow jacket similar to his outfit at the end of \"A New Hope\".\n\nThe cartoon introduces Boba Fett, whose appearance was based on footage of the unpainted costume from \"The Empire Strikes Back\", and according to Nelvana co-founder Clive Smith, their suggestion to \"scuff up his costume a little bit\" influenced the character's live-action appearance. The final costume design made a public parade appearance two months before the \"Holiday Special\" aired. The simplified color scheme for the cartoon was later repeated for Fett's appearance in \"Droids\".\n\nAccording to the official \"Star Wars\" website, Fett was voiced by Don Francks in the special. \"Inverse\" also credited the role to him based on his work in later Nelvana productions.\n\n\"The Star Wars Holiday Special\" was mostly forgotten after its only airing in 1978, until some time in the early-to-mid-1990s when individuals came forward and offered original videotape recordings of the TV airing. These have since been duplicated and reduplicated so that most copies of the special available today are based on second- to sixth-generation VHS dubs. Some of these fan-made copies include the original commercials that aired during the show, as well as the news breaks; the most notable news item was the sentencing of William Kampiles. One such recording from WCBS-TV in New York City featured anchor Rolland Smith teasing a story on \"fighting the frizzies\" for that night's 11 p.m. news, an ID which itself has gained popularity over the years on the Internet and television shows such as \"South Park\".\n\nIt soon became a cult classic among \"Star Wars\" fans. While originally shared or sold as a bootleg video at conventions or via outlets such as eBay, peer-to-peer file sharing networks have made the special more widely available to fans curious to see it for themselves. Online video sites such as YouTube have also hosted clips of the special. However, the special has not been officially released. The so-called \"Platinum Edition\" DVD mentioned in a review by Lawrence Person on Locus Online was an April Fools hoax.\n\nAnimation cels sold in the mid-1990s came from the special's animated Boba Fett segment. Segments of that cartoon appear in the 2002 \"\" web documentary \"Bucket Head\" and Jeremy Bulloch, who portrayed Fett in the original films, introduces the segment as coming from the \"Holiday Special\". In 2004, the official \"Star Wars\" site confirmed that documentary filmmaker Kevin Burns was allowed access to the original print for use in his \"Empire of Dreams\" documentary; however, the segment using footage from the holiday special was ultimately left out of the final cut.\n\nThe entire Fett cartoon would get an official home video release as an Easter Egg on the 2011 \"Star Wars: the Complete Saga\" Blu-ray set and therefore the only portion of the Holiday Special officially released in any home video format.\n\nThe program was seen in Canada on CTV on the same evening as the CBS broadcast. Toronto CTV station CFTO-TV aired the program at 7 pm, an hour earlier than seen on the nearest American outlet, WIVB-TV in Buffalo, New York. It was also distributed and seen in Australia and New Zealand. It was shown on Swedish SVT on May 31, 1979 as \"Stjärnornas krig - och fred\" (literally \"Star Wars - and Peace\", a pun on the Swedish title of the first film). The special was also broadcast in Venezuela on Venevision, Honduras on Canal 5, Brazil on TV Bandeirantes (on Christmas Day, 1981) and at least twice in Argentina. It aired in France on January 1, 1979, on TF1, in a shortened 72-minute version, dubbed in French.\n\n\nDespite the unpopularity of the special, Lucasfilm maintained its status as part of the continuity, placing it halfway between Episodes \"IV\" and \"V\". From 1978 to 2014, most elements of \"Holiday Special\" fell under the S-canon, a secondary level of canon superseded by other licensed works.\n\nThis was clarified in 2007 by Leland Chee, who maintains Lucasfilm's internal continuity database called \"the Holocron\". According to Chee, the Holocron contained at least 28 entries about \"The Star Wars Holiday Special\" by that point. These placed all elements referred to in other works, such as Life Day and Chewbacca's family members, in the . He stated that elements not subsequently referred to were given the lower rank of . Chee also confirmed that Leslie Schofield appears as an unnamed character in \"The Star Wars Holiday Special\" and not the character he played in \"A New Hope\" named Chief Bast. Previously this confusion had caused fans (drawing on a hint in the \"Customizable Card Game\") to question whether Bast's death aboard the Death Star was genuine.\n\nAfter Lucasfilm was acquired by The Walt Disney Company, the Holocron was retired. Only the episodic films and animated series beginning with \"\" were declared to be part of the new canon. However, Abrams sarcastically referred to \"The Star Wars Holiday Special\" as canon in a 2015 interview.\n\nAfter being introduced by the special, the character Boba Fett and the planet Kashyyyk have gone on to play integral roles in the franchise, making their first film appearances in \"The Empire Strikes Back\" and \"\", respectively. Apart from this, more specific references to \"The Star Wars Holiday Special\" have been made including:\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "858414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858414", "title": "Street Parade", "text": "Street Parade\n\nThe Street Parade is the most attended technoparade in the world, since the end of Love Parade 2010. It takes place in Zurich, Switzerland and is the largest annual event in Zurich. Officially a demonstration for freedom, love and tolerance attended by up to a one million people, it proceeds along the side of Lake Zurich on the second Saturday of August.\n\n\nSince 1996, the event is organized by the Verein Street Parade (Street Parade Association). Today, the Street Parade has all the character of a popular festival, however legally it is still a political demonstration. This frees the organisation of security costs, among all else that the city takes under its charge.\n\nAccording to the official website, \"The Street Parade is still a demonstration that calls on everyone to live together in peace and tolerance.\" \n\nSince 1996 the counterparade \"Antiparade\" takes place in Zurich on the same day as the Street Parade to provide an alternative to it. Similar to the Fuckparade in Berlin, the goal of this smaller technoparade is to demonstrate against the increasing commercialisation of club culture.\n\n\"This article is based on the article in the German-language Wikipedia.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12790266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12790266", "title": "The Visions of Simone Machard", "text": "The Visions of Simone Machard\n\nThe Visions of Simone Machard is a play by the German modernist playwright Bertolt Brecht. Written in 1942, the play is the second of three treatments of the Joan of Arc story that Brecht created (after \"Saint Joan of the Stockyards\" (written 1929-1931) and before \"The Trial of Joan of Arc of Proven, 1431\" (1952)). The play was jointly written with Lion Feuchtwanger and was completed during their exile in Los Angeles. Set in France in 1940, it portrays Joan as the patron saint of the resistance movement against the Germans. It was first staged in Frankfurt am Main, in 1957.\n\nIn the play, an adolescent girl named Simone works at a gas station in central France. Her older brother is a soldier in the army, and the Wehrmacht forces are approaching. While engrossed in a book about Saint Joan, she slips into a series of dreams in which the real persons in her life take on other identities. Her brother appears as an angel, her boss as the coward Connetand, and herself as Saint Joan who helps starving refugees and defies her employer. In real life she sets fire to a secret supply of gasoline before the Germans can get to it. In her dream she is captured and sentenced to death, but in real life she is not yet considered a saboteur. The Germans hand her over to the French as a mere arsonist, and she is led away by nuns to a mental institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "57486052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57486052", "title": "Turkish currency and debt crisis, 2018", "text": "Turkish currency and debt crisis, 2018\n\nThe Turkish currency and debt crisis of 2018 () is an ongoing financial and economic crisis in Turkey with international repercussions due to financial contagion. It is characterised by the Turkish lira (TRY) plunging in value, high inflation, rising borrowing costs, and correspondingly rising loan defaults. The crisis was caused by the Turkish economy's excessive current account deficit and foreign-currency debt, -for some analyists- in combination with President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's increasing authoritarianism and his unorthodox ideas about interest rate policy. Some analyists also stress the leveraging effects of the geopolitical frictions with the United States and recently enforced tariffs by Trump administration on some Turkish products such as steel and aluminum.\n\nWhile the crisis was prominent for waves of major devaluation of the currency, later stages were characterised by debt defaults and finally by contraction of the economic growth. With the inflation rate stuck in the double digits, stagflation ensued. The crisis ended a period of overheating economic growth under Erdoğan-led governments, built largely on a construction boom fuelled by easy credit and government spending.\n\nA longstanding characteristic of Turkey's economy is a low savings rate. Since Recep Tayyip Erdoğan assumed control of the government, Turkey has been running huge and growing current account deficits, $33.1 billion in 2016 and $47.3 billion in 2017, climbing to US$7.1 billion in the month of January 2018 with the rolling 12-month deficit rising to $51.6 billion, one of the largest current account deficits in the world. The economy has relied on capital inflows to fund private-sector excess, with Turkey's banks and big firms borrowing heavily, often in foreign currencies. Under these conditions, Turkey must find approximately $200 billion a year to fund its wide current account deficit and maturing debt, while being always at risk of inflows drying up; the state has gross foreign currency reserves of just $85 billion. The economic policy underlying these trends had increasingly been micro-managed by Erdoğan since the election of his AK Party in 2002, and strongly so since 2008, with a focus on the construction industry, state-awarded contracts and stimulus measures. Although, research and development expenditure of the country (% of GDP) and the government expenditure on education(% of GDP) are nearly doubled during AK Party governments, the desired outcomes could not been achieved The motive for these policies have been described as Erdoğan losing faith in Western-style capitalism since the 2008 financial crisis by the secretary general of the main Turkish business association, TUSIAD.\n\nInvestment inflows had already been declining in the period leading up to the crisis, owing to Erdoğan instigating political disagreements with countries that were major sources of such inflows (such as Germany, France, and the Netherlands). Following the 2016 coup attempt, the government seized the assets of those it considered involved, even if their ties to the coup were attenuated. Erdoğan has not taken seriously concerns that foreign companies investing in Turkey might be deterred by the country's political instability. Other factors include worries about the decreasing value of lira (TRY) which threatens to eat into investors' profit margins. Investment inflows have also declined because Erdoğan's increasing authoritarianism has quelled free and factual reporting by financial analysts in Turkey. Between January and May 2017, foreign portfolio investors funded $13.2 billion of Turkey's $17.5 billion current account deficit, according to the latest available data. During the same period this year they plugged just $763 million of a swollen $27.3 billion deficit.\n\nBy the end of 2017, the corporate foreign-currency debt in Turkey had more than doubled since 2009, up to $214 billion after netting against their foreign-exchange assets. Turkey's gross external debt, both public and private, stood at $453.2 billion at the end of 2017. As of March 2018, $181.8 billion of external debt, public and private, was due to mature within a year. Non-resident holdings of domestic shares stood at $53.3 billion in early March and at $39.6 billion in mid-May, and non-resident holdings of domestic government bonds stood at $32.0 billion in early March and at $24.7 billion in mid-May. Overall non-residents’ ownership of Turkish equities, government bonds and corporate debt has plummeted from a high of $92 billion in August 2017 to just $53 billion as of July 13, 2018.\n\nThe finance minister of the Turkish government, Albayrak unveiled a new economic program to stave off the recent financial crisis. The three-year plan aims to \"reign in inflation, spur growth and cut the current account deficit\". The plan includes reduction on the government expenditures by $10 billion and suspension of the projects whose tender have not been carried yet. The transformational phase of the plan will be focusing on value-added areas to increase the country's export volume and long-term production capacity with the goal of creating two million new jobs by 2021. The program is expected to lower economic growth substantially in the short term (from a previous forecast of 5.5% to 3.8% in 2018 and 2.3% in 2019) but with a gradual growth increase by 2021 towards 5%.\n\nTurkey has experienced substantially higher inflation than other emerging markets. In October 2017, inflation was at 11.9%, the highest rate since July 2008. In 2018, the lira's exchange rate accelerated deterioration, reaching a level of 4.0 USD/TRY by late March, 4.5 USD/TRY by mid-May, 5.0 USD/TRY by early August and 6.0 as well as 7.0 USD/TRY by mid-August. Among economists, the accelerating loss of value was generally attributed to Recep Tayyip Erdoğan preventing the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey from making the necessary interest rate adjustments. \n\nErdoğan, who claimed interest rates beyond his control to be \"the mother and father of all evil\", shared unorthodox interest rate theories in a 14 May interview with \"Bloomberg\" and said that \"the central bank can't take this independence and set aside the signals given by the president.\" Presidential interference with central bank policy comes with a general perception in international investment circles of a \"textbook institutional decline\" in Turkey, with Erdoğan seen increasingly reliant on politicians whose main qualifications for their jobs is loyalty, at the expense of more qualified and experienced options. Erdoğan also has a long history of voicing Islamist discourse of interest-based banking as \"prohibited by Islam\" and \"a serious dead-end\". He is also on record referring to interest rate increases as \"treason\". Despite Erdogan's apparent opposition, Turkey's Central Bank made sharp interest rates increases.\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" quoted leading emerging markets financial analyst Timothy Ash analyzing that \"Turkey has strong banks, healthy public finances, good demographics, pro-business culture but [has been] spoiled over past four to five years by unorthodox and loose macroeconomic management.\" By mid-June, analysts in London suggested that with its current government, Turkey would be well advised to seek an International Monetary Fund loan even before the dwindling central bank foreign exchange reserves run out, because it would strengthen the central bank's hand against Erdoğan and help gain back investor confidence in the soundness of Turkey's economic policies.\n\nEconomist Paul Krugman described the unfolding crisis as \"a classic currency-and-debt crisis, of a kind we’ve seen many times\", adding: \"At such a time, the quality of leadership suddenly matters a great deal. You need officials who understand what’s happening, can devise a response and have enough credibility that markets give them the benefit of the doubt. Some emerging markets have those things, and they are riding out the turmoil fairly well. The Erdoğan regime has none of that.\"\n\nDuring the emergence of the crisis, lenders in Turkey were hit by restructuring demands of corporations unable to serve their USD or EUR denominated debt, due to the loss of value of their earnings in Turkish lira. While financial institutions had been the driver of the Istanbul stock exchange for many years, accounting for almost half it's value, by mid-April they accounted for less than one-third. By late-May, lenders were facing a surge in demand from companies seeking to reorganise debt repayments. By early-July, public restructuring requests by some of the country's biggest businesses alone already totalled $20,000,000,000 with other debtors not publicly listed or large enough to require disclosures. The asset quality of Turkish banks, as well as their capital adequacy ratio, kept deteriorating throughout the crisis. By June Halk Bankası, the most vulnerable of the large lenders, had lost 63% of its US dollar value since last summer and traded at 40% of book value. However, it is hard to say that this is mainly due to the economic developments in Turkey since the valuation of Halkbank was largely affected by the rumors over the possible outcomes of the US investigation about the bank's alleged help Iran for evading US sanctions. \n\nBanks continuously raised interest rates for business and consumer loans and mortgage loan rates, towards 20% annually, thus curbing demand from businesses and consumers. With a corresponding growth in deposits, the gap between total deposits and total loans, which had been one of the highest in emerging markets, began to narrow. However, this development has also led to unfinished or unoccupied housing and commercial real estate littering the outskirts of Turkey's major cities, as Erdoğan's policies had fuelled the construction sector, where many of his business allies are very active, to lead past economic growth. In March 2018, home sales fell 14% and mortgage sales declined 35% compared to a year earlier. As of May, Turkey had around 2,000,000 unsold houses, a backlog three times the size of the average annual number of new housing sales. In the first half of 2018, unsold stock of new housing kept increasing, while increases in new home prices in Turkey were lagging consumer price inflation by more than 10 percentage points.\n\nWhile heavy portfolio capital outflows persisted, $883,000,000 in June, with official foreign exchange reserves declining by a $6,990,000,000 during June, the current account deficit started narrowing in June, due to the weakened exchange rate for the lira. This was perceived as a sign of getting balanced economy. Turkish Lira started recover its losses as of September 2018 and the current account deficit continued to shrink. \n\nAs a consequence of the earlier monetary policy of easy money, any newfound fragile short-term macroeconomic stability is based on higher interest rates, thus creating a recessionary effect for the Turkish economy. In mid-June, the \"Washington Post\" carried the quote from a senior financial figure in Istanbul that \"years of irresponsible policies have overheated the Turkish economy. High inflation rates and current account deficits are going to prove sticky. I think we are at the end of our rope.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe crisis has brought considerable risks of financial contagion. One aspect concerns risk to foreign lenders, where according to the Bank for International Settlements, international banks had outstanding loans of $224 billion to Turkish borrowers, including $83 billion from banks in Spain, $35 billion from banks in France, $18 billion from banks in Italy, $17 billion each from banks in the United States and in the United Kingdom, and $13 billion from banks in Germany. Another aspect concerns the situation of other emerging economies with high levels of debt denominated in USD or EUR, with respect to which Turkey may either be considered \"a canary in the coalmine\" or even by its crisis and the bad handling thereof increase international investors' retreat for increased perception of risk in such countries. On 31 May 2018, the Institute of Financial Research (IIF) reported that the Turkish crisis has already spread to Lebanon, Colombia and South Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 29th November the Turkish lira hit an 4 month high in value against the US Dollar. It recovered from 7.0738 against the dollar to 5.17 on 29 November, an increase of 36.8%. Reuters also reported in a response to a poll that it expects the inflation to decrease for the November month. The reasons that were given are the positive exchanges, discounts on products and taxt cuts.\n\nFrom a background of a long history of promoting conspiracy theories by the Turkish government of Erdoğan and the Justice and Development Party (AKP), with the emergence of the financial crisis, members of the government have claimed that the crisis were not attributable to the government's policies, but rather were the conspiratorial work of shadowy foreign actors, seeking to harm Turkey and deprive President Erdoğan of support. During the major lira sell-off on 23 May, Turkey's energy minister, Erdoğan's son-in-law Berat Albayrak, told the media that the recent sharp drop in the value of the lira was the result of the machinations of Turkey's enemies. On 30 May, foreign minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu claimed that the plunge of the lira would have been caused by an organized campaign masterminded abroad, adding that the conspiracy would include both \"the interest rate lobby\" and \"some Muslim countries\", which he however refused to name. At an election campaign rally in Istanbul on 11 June, Erdoğan claimed that the recently published 7.4 percent GDP growth figure for the January to March period would demonstrate victory against what he called \"conspirators\" whom he blamed for May's heavy falls of the Turkish lira. In August, Erdoğan started using the formula of \"the world fighting an economic war against Turkey\". Part of this idea likely had to do with a row with America regarding the case of U.S. citizen Andrew Brunson, which had a deletorious effect on Turkey-U.S. relations. Alongside sanctions on specific government figures, tariffs were also used by both countries to create economic pressure. Vox describes it as a \"trade spat\". Commentators such as Vox's Jen Kirby have pointed to the pivotal role Brunson's case plays in it.\n\nA tariff on steel and other products was placed on Turkey by the United States. However, Sarah Sanders has described the American tariffs as related to \"national defense\", and thus not changeable by circumstances, noting that only the sanctions would be lifted upon the release of Brunson. \n\nErdogan describes these tariffs as an \"economic war\" against Turkey. \n\nIn retaliation, Turkey announced tariffs on US products, most notably the iPhone. The tariffs by Turkey cover products such as American cars, and coal. At a White House Press conference, Sanders described these as \"regrettable\". Sanders claimed that the Turkish economic trouble was part of a long-term trend that wasn't related to any actions America did.\nOn August 22, 2018, John R. Bolton, speaking to Reuters, said \"the Turkish government made a big mistake in not releasing Pastor Brunson... [e]very day that goes by that mistake continues, this crisis could be over instantly if they did the right thing as a NATO ally, part of the West, and release pastor Brunson without condition.\" He went on to state that Turkey's membership in NATO was not as much of a major foreign policy issue for the US, but instead the American focus was on individuals that the United States believes Turkey is holding for non-legitimate reasons. Bolton also expressed skepticism in regard to Qatar's attempts to infuse money in the Turkish economy. \nErdogan spokesman Ibrahim Kalin, in a written statement, described these remarks as an admission that, contra Sanders, the American tariffs were, in fact, in relation to the Brunson case and proof that the US intended them to economically war against Turkey. \n\nAccording to a poll from April 2018, 42 percent of Turks, and 59 percent of Erdoğan's governing AKP voters, saw the decline in the lira as a plot by foreign powers. In another poll from July, 36 percent of survey respondents said it the AKP government was most responsible for the depreciation of the Turkish lira, while 42 percent said it was foreign governments. This was explained by the government's far-reaching control over the media via the fact that those respondents mostly reading alternative views in the Internet were more likely to see their own government responsible, at 47 percent, than foreign governments, at 34 percent.\n\nOn 16 May, a day after Justice and Development Party (AKP) president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had unsettled markets during his visit to London by suggesting he would curb the independence of the Central Bank of Turkey after the election, Republican People's Party (CHP) presidential candidate Muharrem İnce and İYİ Party presidential candidate Meral Akşener both vowed to ensure the independence of the central bank if elected.\n\nIn a 26 May interview on his campaign trail, CHP presidential candidate Muharrem İnce said on economic policy that \"the central bank can only halt the lira’s slide temporarily by raising interest rates, because it’s not the case that depreciation fundamentally stems from interest rates being too high or too low. So, the central bank will intervene, but the things that really need to be done are in the political and legal areas. Turkey needs to immediately be extricated from a political situation that breeds economic uncertainty, and its economy must be handled by independent and autonomous institutions. My economic team is ready, and we have been working together for a long time.\"\n\nIn a nationwide survey conducted between 13 and 20 May, 45 percent saw the economy (including the steadily-dropping lira and unemployment) as the greatest challenge facing Turkey, with foreign policy at 18 percent, the justice system at 7 percent and terror and security at 5 percent.\n\nİYİ Party presidential candidate Meral Akşener, supported by a strong economic team led by former Central Bank Governor Durmuş Yılmaz, had on 7 May presented her party's economic program, saying that \"we will purchase the debts from consumer loans, credit card and overdraft accounts of 4.5 million citizens whose debts are under legal supervision of banks or consumer financing companies and whose debts have been sold to collection companies as of April 30, 2018. It is our duty to help our citizens with this condition, as the state has helped big companies in difficult situations.\"\n\nOn 13 June, CHP leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu reiterated the opposition's view that the state of emergency in place since July 2016 were an impediment to Turkey's currency, investment and economy, vowing that it be lifted within 48 hours in case of an opposition victory in the elections. İYİ Party leader and presidential candidate Akşener had made the same vow on 18 May, while CHP presidential candidate İnce had said on 30 May: \"Foreign countries do not trust Turkey, thus they do not invest in our country. When Turkey becomes a country of the rule law, foreign investors will invest thus the lira will gain value.\" Early June, President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had suggested in an interview that the issue of lifting the emergency rule would be discussed the elections, however asked back: \"What's wrong with the state of emergency?\"\n\nIn early April, Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) presidential candidate Selahattin Demirtaş, writing in a letter from prison—where he has been held without conviction since 2016, accused of inciting violence with words— saying that \"the biggest problem for the youth in Turkey is corruption which has accompanied with AKP governance.\"\n\nIn late May, Republican People's Party (CHP) deputy chair Aykut Erdoğdu called the Financial Crimes Investigation Board of Turkey (MASAK) to investigate exchange rate transactions made amid rapid decline and partial recovery in the value of the lira on 23 May, alleging insider trading by market participants who knew of the 300 basis points interest rate hike by the Turkish central bank in advance.\n\nIn early July, Turkey's Capital Markets Board (SPK) said that until the end of August share purchases on the Borsa Istanbul by people party to the relevant company's internal information, or by those close to them (insider trading), would not be subject to a stock market abuse directive. Amid a public outcry, it suspended the directive some days later, without giving a reason for the move.\n\n"}
{"id": "32273530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32273530", "title": "Two Boys", "text": "Two Boys\n\nTwo Boys is an opera in two acts by American composer Nico Muhly, with an English-language libretto by American playwright Craig Lucas. The opera's story is based on real events in Manchester, England, in 2001 as described in a 2005 \"Vanity Fair\" article titled \"You Want Me 2 Kill Him?\"\n\nMuhly's opera was first performed by the English National Opera (ENO) in London on 24 June 2011, directed by Bartlett Sher. It was performed by the Metropolitan Opera in New York in October and November 2013. The ENO and the Met shared the initial production costs.\n\nUsing the narrative structure of a police investigation into a violent crime, the opera explores the world of online relationships and chatrooms, and was billed by the ENO as \"a cautionary tale of the dark side of the internet.\"\n\nNonesuch Records released the first recording of the piece, from the Metropolitan Opera production, in 2014.\n\n\"Two Boys\" opened to mixed reviews from the British press. William Hartstone in the \"Daily Express\" called it \"thoroughly modern opera, both disturbing and challenging\". Edward Seckerson writing in \"The Independent\" praised the composition, libretto and staging, calling it \"an auspicious operatic debut.\"\n\nDavid Gillard writing in the \"Daily Mail\", said, \"A compelling opera for our time inspired by real-life internet crime,\" while conceding that the overall evening was \"static\". George Hall, writing in \"The Stage\", praised the libretto, but called Muhly's music \"a commonplace and ultimately thin soundtrack accompaniment\". Rupert Christiansen, writing in \"The Daily Telegraph\", described it as \"a bit of a bore – dreary and earnest rather than moving and gripping, and smartly derivative rather than distinctively individual\". He continued, \"It sounds more intriguing than it is, because Muhly signally fails to build the narrative into a sound melodramatic structure. Although the opera isn't long, it seems so, plodding along without substantial contrast of pace or mood, and never reaching a satisfactory climax.\"\n\nIn the \"New York Times\", Zachary Woolfe wrote: \"Serious and radiant, \"Two Boys\" is a landmark in the career of an important artist. Confidently staking his claim to the operatic tradition, Mr. Muhly has added to it a work of dark beauty.\" The Bloomberg review began by quoting Muhly's PR tagline as \"the hottest composer on the planet\", concluding \"Whichever planet that is, it must be a pretty tepid one.\" The review also faulted the libretto which \"moves with such exasperating slowness, that if the audience hasn't worked things out by Act II, then they're probably asleep or sensibly diverting their mental energy elsewhere.\" The opera elicited unkind comparisons to police procedurals on TV. \"The Independent\" dismissed it as \"\"Prime Suspect\" with a soundtrack of semi-skimmed Glass.\" In \"The Guardian\", which has frequently commissioned guest columns from Muhly, Andrew Clements dismissed the opera as \"a bland mid-Atlantic compromise\" with a musical idiom \"pitched somewhere between recent Philip Glass and the John Adams of \"The Death of Klinghoffer\".\" Writing in \"The Londonist\", Sam Smith concurred, \"Muhly's music...is interesting but can feel underwhelming and derivative.\" \"So So Gay\" panned the production as \"an operatic misadventure\" and \"a dreary letdown\", and agreeing that the music \"is minimalist to the point of being unexciting\". In \"The Financial Times\", Andrew Clark felt the opera was underwhelming and that \"the fault lies in Muhly's generic minimalism. The orchestral accompaniment, rarely breaking out of a steady moderato, has the quality of a soundtrack. Vocal lines are singable but impersonal...'Accessible' hovers over every bar.\"\n\nNonesuch Records released the first recording of \"Two Boys\", from the Metropolitan Opera production, on September 30, 2014.\n"}
{"id": "69161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69161", "title": "Tết", "text": "Tết\n\nTết ( or ), or Vietnamese New Year, is the most important celebration in Vietnamese culture. The word is a shortened form of Tết Nguyên Đán(節元旦), which is Sino-Vietnamese for \"Feast of the First Morning of the First Day\". Tết celebrates the arrival of spring based on the Vietnamese calendar, which usually has the date falling in January or February.\n\nVietnamese people celebrate the Lunar New Year annually, which is based on a lunisolar calendar (calculating both the earth's movement around the sun and the moon around the earth). Tết is generally celebrated on the same day as Chinese New Year, except when the one-hour time difference between Vietnam and China results in new moon occurring on different days. It takes place from the first day of the first month of the Vietnamese calendar (around late January or early February) until at least the third day. Many Vietnamese prepare for Tết by cooking special holiday food and cleaning the house. These foods include \"bánh chưng, bánh dày,\" dried young bamboo soup (\"canh măng\"), \"giò\", and sticky rice. Many customs are practiced during Tết, such as visiting a person's house on the first day of the new year (\"xông nhà\"), ancestor worship, wishing New Year's greetings, giving lucky money to children and elderly people, and opening a shop.\n\nTết is also an occasion for pilgrims and family reunions. They start forgetting about the troubles of the past year and hope for a better upcoming year. They consider Tết to be the first day of spring, and the festival is often called \"Hội xuân \"(spring festival).\n\nVietnamese people usually return to their families during Tết. Some return to worship at the family altar or visit the graves of their ancestors in their homeland. They also clean the graves of their family as a sign of respect. Although Tết is a national holiday among all Vietnamese, each region and religion has its own customs.\n\nTết in the three Vietnamese regions can be divided into three periods, known as \"Tất Niên\" (penultimate New Year's Eve), \"Giao Thừa\" (New Year's Eve), and \"Tân Niên\" (the New Year), representing the preparation before Tết, the eve of Tết, and the days of and following Tết, respectively. \n\nThe first day of Tết is reserved for the nuclear family. Children receive a red envelope containing money from their elders. This tradition is called \"mừng tuổi\" (happy new age) in the north and \"lì xì\" in the south. Usually, children wear their new clothes and give their elders the traditional Tết greetings before receiving the money. Since the Vietnamese believe that the first visitor a family receives in the year determines their fortune for the entire year, people never enter any house on the first day without being invited first. The act of being the first person to enter a house on Tết is called \"xông đất\", \"xông nhà\" or \"đạp đất\", which is one of the most important rituals during Tết. According to Vietnamese tradition, if good things come to the family on the first day of the lunar New Year, the entire following year will also be full of blessings. Usually, a person of good temper, morality, and success will be the lucky sign for the host family and be invited first into the house. However, just to be safe, the owner of the house will leave the house a few minutes before midnight and come back just as the clock strikes midnight to prevent anyone else entering the house first who might potentially bring any unfortunate events in the new year to the household.\n\nSweeping during Tết is taboo or \"xui\" (unlucky), since it symbolizes sweeping the luck away; that is why they clean before the new year. It is also taboo for anyone who experienced a recent loss of a family member to visit anyone else during Tết.\n\nDuring subsequent days, people visit relatives and friends. Traditionally but not strictly, the second day of Tết is usually reserved for friends, while the third day is for teachers, who command respect in Vietnam. Local Buddhist temples are popular spots as people like to give donations and to get their fortunes told during Tết. Children are free to spend their new money on toys or on gambling games such as \"bầu cua cá cọp\", which can be found in the streets. Prosperous families can pay for dragon dancers to perform at their house. Also, public performances are given for everyone to watch.\n\nThese celebrations can last from a day up to the entire week, and the New Year is filled with people in the streets trying to make as much noise as possible using firecrackers, drums, bells, gongs, and anything they can think of to ward off evil spirits. This parade will also include different masks, and dancers hidden under the guise of what is known as the \"Mua Lan \"or Lion Dancing. The \"Lan\" is an animal between a lion and a dragon, and is the symbol of strength in the Vietnamese culture that is used to scare away evil spirits. After the parade, families and friends come together to have a feast of traditional Vietnamese dishes, and share the happiness and joy of the New Year with one another. This is also the time when the elders will hand out red envelopes with money to the children for good luck in exchange for Tết greetings.\n\nIt is also tradition to pay off your debts before the Lunar New Year for some Vietnamese families.\n\nTraditionally, each family displays \"cây nêu\", an artificial New Year tree consisting of a bamboo pole 5 to 6 m long. The top end is usually decorated with many objects, depending on the locality, including good luck charms, origami fish, cactus branches, etc.\n\nAt Tết, every house is usually decorated by Yellow Apricot blossoms (\"hoa mai\") in the central and southern parts of Vietnam; or peach blossoms (\"hoa đào\") in the northern part of Vietnam; or St. John's wort (\"hoa ban\") in the mountain areas. In the north, some people (especially the elite in the past) also decorate their house with a plum blossoms (also called \"hoa mai\" in Vietnamese, but referring to a totally different species from mickey-mouse blossoms). In the north or central, the kumquat tree is a popular decoration for the living room during Tết. Its many fruits symbolize the fertility and fruitfulness for which the family hopes in the coming year.\n\nVietnamese people also decorate their homes with bonsai and flowers such as chrysanthemums (\"hoa cúc\"), marigolds (\"vạn thọ\") symbolizing longevity, cockscombs (\"mào gà\") in southern Vietnam and paperwhites (\"thủy tiên\") and pansies (\"hoa lan\") in northern Vietnam. In the past was a tradition where people tried to make their paperwhites bloom on the day of the observance.\n\nThey also hung up Dong Ho paintings and \"thư pháp\" calligraphy pictures.\n\nThe traditional greetings are \"\"Chúc Mừng Năm Mới\" (Happy New Year) and \"Cung Chúc Tân Xuân\"\", (gracious wishes of the new spring). People also wish each other prosperity and luck. Common wishes for Tết include:\n\nIn Vietnamese language, to celebrate Tết is to \"ăn Tết\", literally meaning \"eat Tết\", showing the importance of food in its celebration. Some of the food is also eaten year-round, while other dishes are only eaten during Tết. Also, some of the food is vegetarian since it is believed to be good luck to eat vegetarian on Tết. Some traditional foods on Tết are:\n\nPeople enjoy traditional games during Tết, including: \"bầu cua cá cọp\", \"cờ tướng\", \"ném còn\", \"chọi trâu\", and \"đá gà\". They also participate in some competitions presenting their knowledge, strength, and aestheticism, such as the bird competition and \"ngâm thơ\" competition.\n\nFireworks displays have also become an traditional part of a Tết celebration in Vietnam. During the New Year's Eve, fireworks displays at major cities, such as Hà Nội, Ho Chi Minh City, and Da Nang, are broadcast through multiple national and local TV channels, accompanied by New Year wishes of the incumbent president. In 2017, fireworks display has been banned due to political and financial reasons.\n\n\"Gặp nhau cuối năm\" (\"Year-end Gathering\") is a national favourite comedy show broadcast during the night before the New Year's Eve.\n\nFrom 1996 to 2067.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8996132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8996132", "title": "Union of Transylvania with Romania", "text": "Union of Transylvania with Romania\n\nThe Union of Transylvania with Romania was declared on by the assembly of the delegates of ethnic Romanians held in Alba Iulia.\n\nThe national holiday of Romania, the Great Union Day (also called \"Unification Day\") occurring on December 1, celebrates this event. The holiday was established after the Romanian Revolution, and marks the unification not only of Transylvania, but also of the provinces of Banat, Bessarabia and Bukovina with the Romanian Kingdom. These other provinces had all joined with the Kingdom of Romania earlier in 1918.\n\n\nOn December 1, 1918 (November 18 Old Style), the \"National Assembly of Romanians of Transylvania and Hungary\", consisting of 1,228 elected representatives of the Romanians in Transylvania, Banat, Crișana and Maramureș, convened in Alba Iulia and decreed (by unanimous vote)\n\nThe declaration included 26 counties of the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nThe Resolution voted by the National Assembly stipulated also the \"fundamental principles for the foundation of the new Romanian State\":\n\n\nThe union was conditional, and demanded the preservation of a democratic local autonomy, the equality of all nationalities and religions.\nThe Assembly also formed from 200 of its members, plus 50 co-opted members a \"High National Romanian Council of Transylvania\", the new permanent parliament of Transylvania.\n\nThe next day, on December 2, 1918 the High National Romanian Council of Transylvania formed a government under the name of Directory Council of Transylvania (\"Consiliul Dirigent al Transilvaniei\"), headed by Iuliu Maniu.\n\nOn December 11, 1918, King Ferdinand signed the Law regarding the Union of Transylvania, Banat, Crișana, the Satmar and Maramureș with the Old Kingdom of Romania, decreeing that\n\n\n\nIn 1920, by the Treaty of Trianon, 102,813 km² of the Kingdom of Hungary became part of the Kingdom of Romania. This territory were less than that promised by the Treaty of Bucharest or claimed by the declaration of union in 1918, or demanded officially by the Romanian Government in the Peace Conference.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19284333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19284333", "title": "United Nations Command, Military Armistice Commission, Korea", "text": "United Nations Command, Military Armistice Commission, Korea\n\nThe United Nations Command Military Armistice Commission (UNCMAC) was established in July 1953 at the end of the Korean War to supervise the Korean Armistice Agreement, and which has been operating ever since.\n\nExisting slow-moving talks towards an armistice were taken up by President-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower after he visited United Nations Command forces in Korea. His diplomacy, along with the threat of a nuclear confrontation and the death of Stalin, convinced North Korea and China to sign the armistice and exchange prisoners of war. Most United Nations troops were then withdrawn. There was no peace treaty, and Korea remains divided along the Military Demarcation Line near the 38th parallel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56527387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56527387", "title": "Victory Day Parades", "text": "Victory Day Parades\n\nVictory Day Parades are celebrated on the 9th of May in various post-soviet nations, primarily Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and formerly Ukraine. The Ukrainian government in 2015 had renamed the holiday as \"Victory Day over Nazism in World War II\" as part of decommunization laws, but even after the change a vast amount of the populous still honors Ukrainian-Soviet troops who fought in World War 2 in the traditional Victory Day style.\n\nDuring the entire history of the Soviet Union, only a total of four parades ever took place in Moscow and throughout the entire Soviet Union. In December 1947 the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet under Josef Stalin, decreed that \"May 9th (Victory Day)\" would become a working day, effectively making the celebrations cancelled and ceased completely. Stalin was also not eager to see the maimed Red Army soldiers who fought victoriously during the war, parade on Red Square, as he had no need for heroes. Stalin had many of the veterans removed from the city limits, and the removal of the holiday helped build his image of being the great commander and hero of the war, effectively broadening his Cult of Personality during his reign of power.\n\nHowever, on April 26, 1965, nearly twenty years after the first parade, under Leonid Brezhnev, the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet reversed the actions made in 1947, thus making May 9 a non-working holiday, this would be the first time Victory Day was made as an actual holiday. On May 9, 1965 the second Victory Day parade took place in Moscow, this Victory Day celebration also saw veterans obtain the first jubilee medal for \"Twenty Years of Victory\" in honor of the 20th year anniversary since the Allied victory in Europe against Nazi Germany. Further parades would be held in 1985 and 1990.\n\nParades:\n\nToday, Russia, as the largest of the countries of the former Soviet Union, continues the practice of parades held in honor of the victory won in the Great Patriotic War - the Eastern Front of the Second World War as called by the Soviet Union.\n\nParades in Moscow:\n\nParades in Saint Petersburg:\n\n\nUkraine, as the second largest former Soviet republic in terms of population, suffered massive casualties during the war. Ukrainians were the largest minority ethnic group of the USSR, and had seen the full force of the Nazi invasion that struck a huge blow to the Ukrainian population. An estimated 1,377,400 Ukrainian servicemen and women of the Soviet Armed Forces lost their lives fighting against Wehrmacht troops during the war. Although Victory Day as a holiday has been altered completely and renamed as a completely different holiday (Victory Day over Nazism in World War II), many Ukrainians still honor their forefathers in the traditional Victory Day style. Only in the rebel breakaway regions of Donetsk and Luhansk do the people completely celebrate the traditional Victory Day parades with military vehicles and soldiers marching past the main squares.\n\nParades:\n\nParades:\n\nParades:\n\nParades:\n\n\nThe three Baltic republics: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania do not officially celebrate Victory Day, as all three consider it a reminder of an illegal Soviet occupation, although a shared minority in the Baltic's retains the tradition of celebrating, primarily from Latvians, Lithuanians, Estonians, and Russians who either fought in the Red Army or have family that fought in the war.\n\nAs Victory Day is the principal military holiday of Russia and of almost all member countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (except the Baltics and the Ukraine), the celebrations in Moscow and other capital cities thus serve as national events to mark such an important holiday for millions of people, marking the anniversary of the capitulation of Nazi Germany in 1945. The annual or semiannual parades mark the Allied victory in World War II on the Eastern Front, on the same day as the signing of the German act of capitulation to the victorious Allies in Berlin, at midnight of May 9, 1945 (Russian time), officially concluding the Second World War in Europe and northern parts of Africa.\n\nThe most important parade of those being held on May 9 is the one held on Moscow's Red Square, with the President of Russia as the guest of honor and keynote speaker in virtue of his constiutional mandate as Supreme Commander of the Russian Armed Forces. On the morning of the day, an estimated 14,000 military personnel, including a regiment of female cadets and youth cadets, assemble by battalions on the square together with the Massed Bands of around 1,100 bandsmen under the direction of the Senior Director of Music of the Military Band Service of the Armed Forces of Russia (an appointment bestowed to either a Colonel or a general rank officer), together with more than 178 vehicles and 3,500 vehicle crews assembled on Tverskaya Street just north of the Manezhnaya Square, Moscow, during the major parades a battalion or company of historical Red Army vehicles, estimated at around 36 vehicles and composed of just the T-34, GAZ-67 and the SU-100 plus the optional BM-13N (or at around 260 when counting other vehicles of the war which would take part just like in the parades of 1985 and 1990) assemble on the street as well with modern military hadware. At the air bases outside Moscow (in areas like Kubinka), more than 80 aircraft are assembled with their aircrews for the flypast segment.\n\nThe celebrations begin at 9:50 am Moscow Standard Time with the arrival of the President and the Prime Minister of Russia to a special grandstand in front of Lenin's Mausoleum, where 6 of the past parades were reviewed by national leaders. They greet the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces, service commanders, deputy ministers in the Ministry of Defence and commanders of the support units within the Armed Forces, together with veterans, veterans' families and representatives of the Suvorov and Nakhimov Schools assembled.To the left and right of the grandstand are the stands wherein veterans, veterans' families and descendants and families of personnel killed in action are gathered. In between the grandstand to the south of the stands are two platoons of armed linemen and markers from the 154th Preobrazhensky Independent Commandant's Regiment in the Imperial-styled military uniforms and some unarmed half-companies of the Kremlin Regiment, both of which would be later taking post to mark the distance of the troops marching past and to line the square's western side facing the Kremlin. At the square, the parade commander (usually a Colonel General with the billet of Commander of the Ground Forces or as the Deputy Chief of General Staff) takes his place in a special Zil limousine, having just received the report on the readiness of the parade from the commandant of the Combined Arms Academy.\n\nAs the Spasskaya Tower of the Kremlin sounds the chimes at 10am the parade commander orders the parade to present arms as the 154th PICR's 1st Honor Guard Company Colour Guard, to the melody of \"The Sacred War\" being played by the Massed Bands, marches into the square and past the dignitaries with guard carrying both the Flag of Russia and the Victory Banner. As the colour guards approach the grandstand, the colour officers execute eyes left. This is followed by the parade being commanded to stand at ease after the colours take their place at the northwest end of the square fronting the State Historical Museum, besides the colour of the Armed Forces. Then the Minister of Defence (usually a billet of a General of the Army) is driven on the limousine to the center of the square nearest the tribune, the parade presenting arms again at this point. The parade commander informs him of the readiness of the parade to be inspected. The report is received, and to the tune of the Massed Bands the Minister and the parade commander are driven to inspect the parading contingents each together with the bands. As the limousines stop the Minister sends Victory Day greetings to each of the parading contingents, in which they respond with a threefold loud \"Oorah\" that is heard all over the grounds. After the final greeting, the Massed Bands strike up to \"Slavsya\" from A Life for the Tsar as the PC returns to his place, the Minister driven to the grandstand amidst louds shouts of \"Oorah\" by the parade contingents where he dismounts the limousine and the Corps of Drums of the Moscow Military Music College, an affiliate of the Suvorov Military Schools, take their place behind the parade commander's car led by the Commandant of the College and the college colour guard. The parade is ordered to stand at ease after the Minister informs the President that the parade is formed up for the march past in review and its inspection officially completed. In the 1965, 1985 and 1990 parades, the limousines would inspect the personnel of the mobile column at the Manezhnaya Square, in remembrance of the mounted inspection of the original 1945 parade. When should it happen any point in the future the Iberian Gate and Chapel's gates open for the limousines to pass through and the PC and the Minister pay respects to the holy Marian icon of the Panagia Portaitissa at the small chapel, following this the Minister, together with the PC, are driven in their limousines past the Four Seasons Hotel Moscow and then proceed the south end of Tverskaya Street at the north end of the square to inspect the troops comprising the mobile column formed into battalions, after the inspection is finished then will the bands at the Red Square play \"Slavsya\" as the vehicles are driven past the east side of the Manezhnaya Square first and then into Red Square itself. In either case, following the report of the Minister of Defence, the keynote holiday address to the nation of the President follows, preceded by a fanfare by the Massed Bands, usually Govovin's \"Moscow Fanfare\". A moment of silence, since 2014, features as part of the keynote address.\n\nAs the president finishes the address and a threefold \"Oorah\" resounds all over the square by the entire parade assembled and the honor guard presents arms, the Massed Bands play the National Anthem of Russia and a ceremonial battery armed with the 76 mm divisional gun M1942 (ZiS-3) fire a 21-gun salute. As the anthem ends, the bands sound Retreat and the parade commander orders the parade to commence the march past in the following manner:\n\nAs the command is given to start the linemen take their places and the field markers also as well at the south end of the square. As the PC ends the commands with \"Eyes to the right, forward, quick march!\" the Corps of Drums of the Moscow Military Music College, as is their tradition since 1938, march first to the tune of the \"General Miloradovich\" by one of its late alumni, Lieutenant General Valery Khalilov, one of the longest serving Senior Directors of Music of the Military Band Service and conductor of the Moscow area massed bands from 2002 to 2016, being played by the drummers and fifers. As the massed bands start playing the Corps of Drums stop playing by the signal of the Corps Drum Major and swings its drumsticks while on the eyes right. The Corps is followed by the colour guard of the 154th PICR and its 1st Honor Guard Company, during jubilee parades, the colour guard is followed by a company of colour bearers carrying the front standards in the order of their marchpast in the 1945 Victory Parade and their escorts, colours from the regiments, brigades and divisions which took part in the original 1945 parade and a historical unit of servicemen in period uniforms, optionally joined by the Kuban Cossacks, in memory of their contingent which marched past on that very parade, and the Escort Cavalry Squadron of the Kremlin Regiment plus a number of international contingents. This is followed by the rest of the parade ground column, starting with the youth contingents and by the Combined Arms Academy, in the following order starting 2010:\n\n\nThe ground column ends, as the massed bands play either Victory Day or Let's Go, with the traditional marchpast of the Moscow Higher Military Command School, which has been done since the golden jubilee October Revolution Day parade of 1967 as a commemoration of the school's importance as the first military officer cadet school to be established in modern-day Russia, the first time it had been seen last in the Victory Day parade ground column was in 1985 (the two battalions of the school's Corps of Cadets also march past the square in memory of the cadets who fought in the 1941 Battle of Moscow). With the ground segment competed the bands stop playing at the signal of the senior director and the senior drum majors and, to give way to the mobile column, march towards the facade of the GUM department store, with two sections of the MMMC Corps of Drums at either side of the bands, reflecting the formations of the massed bands alongside the Corps of Drums in the Red Square parades of the 1950s and the 1960s.\n\nThe mobile column starts with the drivepast of historical vehicles in jubilee years. In non-special anniversary years only a T-34/85 medium battle tank carrying the Victory Banner leads the column of tens of military vehicles and equipment.\n\nThe parade commander (the Deputy Defense Minister bearing the rank of Major General) arrives on Victors Avenue to receive the report from the commander of the first parade formation (usually the Military Academy of Belarus). The President of Belarus then arrives at the grandstand in front of the Minsk Hero City Obelisk to await the start of the parade before 10:00 in the morning.\n\nThe parade commander gives the order to begin the review of the Minsk Garrison by the Defence Minister of Belarus, the parade presenting arms at that juncture and the Central Band of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Belarus, by itself a grouping of massed bands of the Armed Forces, beginning to play inspection music. Then as the limousines stop in front of the grandstand and the massed bands stop playing the Deputy Defense Minister of Belarus reports to the Defense Minister on the status of the parade. The Defense Minister then reviews the parading troops along the avenue. As the defense minister concludes the inspection of the troops, he reports to the president on the readiness of the parade. A minute of silence then takes place, followed by a performance of the National Anthem of Belarus (My Belarusy) by the massed bands. The president then delivers an address to the nation and congratulates the citizens on the holiday. As the president concludes the address, the parade commander then gives the order for the Minsk Garrison to get into their parade formations, and for the troops of the Honour Guard Company to take their post as linemen to mark the distance of the troops marching past the grandstand. The first unit to march, beating the snare drums, are the drummers of the Minsk Suvorov Military School, followed by a colour guard and the standards of the fronts which were involved in the 1944 Minsk Offensive.\n\nAccording to tradition, a wreath laying ceremony at the tomb of the unknown soldier takes place at Victory Park. The ceremony is presided by the President of Tajikistan and the parade commander is a deputy minister in the Ministry of Defense holding the rank of a Lieutenant General.\n\nFull order of the parade:\n\n\nMost Victory Day parades in Astana are held in connection with Defender of the Fatherland Day, which celebrates the founding of the Kazakh Armed Forces.\n\nParades:\n\nParades:\n\nParades:\n\nParades:\n\nParades:\n\n"}
{"id": "13937384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13937384", "title": "Yukon International Storytelling Festival", "text": "Yukon International Storytelling Festival\n\nThe Yukon International Storytelling Festival was held every Summer in Whitehorse, Yukon, generally in an outdoor setting. Cofounders of the storytelling festival were storytellers Louise Profeit-Leblanc and Anne Taylor. Profeit-Leblanc, from the Northern Tutchone Nation, was the niece of Angela Sidney (1902 – 1991), one the Yukon's last Tagish. Sidney had devoted her life to preserving the stories of the Tagish of Southern Yukon, Profeit-Leblanc and Taylor were motivated to found a more local venue for sharing Yukon stories when they realized that Sidney had had to travel in 1984 to the Toronto Festival of Storytelling to disseminate her peoples' stories to a world audience. In 1987 interested parties came together to plan the first Yukon Storytelling Festival in 1988. It later grew beyond the scope of Yukon and Canada to attract storytellers from all over the world with an emphasis on native peoples storytelling and circumpolar countries.\n\nIn 1984 Angela Sidney shared her stories at the Toronto Festival of Storytelling. Fellow storytellers were inspired by her to develop the Yukon International Storytelling Festival which was created in 1988.\nFirst decade. The first edition in 1988 proposed storytellers from 4 continents and 23 languages (including 16 native languages). In 1989 the festivals take flight and promotes attendance by schoolchildren and Jerry Alfred was one of the artists. In 1990 the festival grows. In 1991 the festival gains notoriety from a national festival reviewer and changes its name to \"Yukon International Storytelling Festival\". The Tagish lady who inspired the creation of the festival, Angela Sidney, died. 1992's edition experienced diplomatic problems with its scheduled Russian guests. 1993 saw record attendance and box office sales. 1994 the festival experienced severe financial losses due to a windstorm that nearly destroyed the festival tents and caused the festival to relocate. In 1995 the festival was scaled down in order to recoup past financial losses, and produced a surplus for the first time. In 1996 the festival grew once more and saw its second best attendance. The 10th anniversary edition in 1997 experienced its best attendance yet and interest from the Canada Council finally started happening.\n\nSecond decade. The 1998 edition felt a loss of attendance because of competing local events. In 1999 it proposed a new successful \"Winter tour\" and finally garnered support from the Canada Council. The 2000 edition was held in June and had great weather . 2001, rain did not impede the festivals popularity. In 2002 the festival gained much political support and moved into new offices with a new dynamic leader. The 2003 edition saw a successful Circumpolar Banquet and other workshops and events throughout the day. The many forest fires of 2004 created a unique atmosphere for the festival, the highlight storytellers were Red Sky Performance Troupe from Ontario. The largest festival in 2005 had 12 tents with many different activities. Highlighted artists were Uzume Taiko Japanese drumming ensemble, Aché Brasil performing the Brazilian martial art of capoeira and Robert Bly. 2006, with MacPap International Brigades veteran Jules Paivio as highlight remembering the Spanish Civil War, was a similarly large and well attended endeavour. Partnership with \"Harvest Fair\" and the Mongolian yurts provided cozy, warm and intimate storytelling venues. The 20th anniversary was held indoors for the first time at the Yukon Arts Center in August. Highlighted artists were SunsDrum, an interactive Inuit presentation of traditional drumming and throat singing, Jeanne Doucet Currie, an Acadian traditional storyteller and singer/songwriter, Dan Yashinsky (founder of the Toronto Festival of Storytelling) and Ida Calmagne (Tagish, Yukon), daughter of the founder of the festival.\n\nThe festival is currently on an indefinite sabbatical.\n\nJerry Alfred - Michele Emslie - Anne-Louise Genest - Backwoods Benny\n\n\n\n"}
