{"id": "20808744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20808744", "title": "2006 Chicago Big Box Ordinance", "text": "2006 Chicago Big Box Ordinance\n\nOn July 26, 2006 the Chicago City Council voted to approve an ordinance which for 7 weeks made Chicago the largest United States city that required big-box retailers to pay what the ordinance's sponsors characterized as a \"living wage.\" Formally entitled \"AMENDMENT OF TITLE 4 OF MUNICIPAL CODE OF CHICAGO BY CREATION OF NEW CHAPTER 404 ENTITLED \"LARGE RETAILERS\"\", the ordinance was popularly known as the \"Living Wage Ordinance\" or \"Big Box Ordinance.\" The ordinance defined \"Large Retailers\" as those with annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more or with stores of 90,000 square feet or more. \"Large retailers\" were required to pay $9.25 per hour in wages and $1.50 per hour in benefits, with a schedule of cost of living increases. (At the time, the minimum wage was $6.50 per hour state and $5.15 federal).\n\nThe ordinance was sponsored by Aldermen Moore, Flores, Tillman, Preckwinkle, Hairston, Lyle, Beavers, Stroger, Beale, Pope, Balcer, Cardenas, Olivo, Theodore Thomas, Coleman, Latasha Thomas, Murphy, Troutman, Munoz, Chandler, Ocasio, Ed Smith, Reboyras, Matlak, Austin, Colon, Allen, Laurino, Levar, Shiller, Schulter, Maryanne Smith and Stone.\n\nThis legislation was widely reported in the national press. More than two dozen publications, including the \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\", \"Houston Chronicle\", \"The Kansas City Star\", \"Rocky Mountain News\", \"The Seattle Times\", and \"Philadelphia Daily News\", carried the story.\n\nMayor Richard M. Daley vetoed the ordinance on September 11, 2006, and two days later the City Council sustained the veto.\n\n"}
{"id": "47012045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47012045", "title": "2015 Cash for Vote Scam", "text": "2015 Cash for Vote Scam\n\nThe 2015 cash-for-votes scam was a South Indian political scandal, the second scandal of its kind since the 2008 North Indian cash-for-votes scandal. The 2015 political scandal started off when the Telugu Desam Party Leaders of Telangana state were caught in a video footage, aired in the media, offering bribes to a nominated MLA for his vote in the 2015 elections of the Telangana Legislative Council. The Telugu Desam MLA Revanth Reddy was arrested by the Telangana Police when he was offering Rs. 50 lakhs to the nominated MLA Elvis Stephenson. Reddy was then presented before the court of justice and sent to jail. Similarly, the phone conversation, which was quoted as the voice of N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister, with the same nominated MLA was aired in the news media.\n\nThe Telugu Desam party alleged that the scandal, was a political vendetta, doctored by the Telangana State Government under the direction of K. Chandrashekhar Rao, the Chief Minister of Telangana, alongside the YSR Congress Party.But eventually proved as a false statement in investigation. In a further development, The High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the States of Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana, granted bail to Revanth Reddy and two other co-accused due to lack of substantial evidence.\n\nThe elections for the Council of Telangana Assembly were initiated and the notification for six upper house seats were released. Five candidates from TRS, one from Congress and one from Telugu Desam got ready to contest the elections. The Telugu Desam and allied BJP together does not have enough votes to win the contest. Then the news came out that they were trying to get votes from other parties. The Party President Chandrababu Naidu conducted meetings to analyze this matter, based on his suggestion the TDP Party Leaders got into action. The rival parties have sensed that they are attempting to lure their MLA’s, so the respective party leaders became cautious. In this process a high drama took place at Stephenson’s place. The TDP MLA Revanth Reddy met Stephenson with the help of an aide. Following Revanth’s suggestion this aide tried to deliver Rs.50 lakh currency bundles. The videos of Revanth Reddy during this transaction turned out to be critical and aired on TV News channels.\n\nThe video recording shows that Revanth Reddy spoke several matters with Stephenson. He mentioned that he is the active leader in Telangana and also said that his ‘Boss’ assigns crucial matters only to him. He assured that everything will be taken care by Boss. And mentioned that he reported about money matter. He stressed that everything is done based on Boss instruction. Authorities arrested Revanth Reddy and later the video was telecasted in media. Everyone understood that when a Party MLA refers someone as ‘Boss’ repeatedly, it may be none otherthan the Party President Chandrababu Naidu.\n\nAs per the arguments of nominated MLA Stephenson, it is coming to know that Chandrababu was the one who doctored the entire episode. The sequential events began on May 28 when one by name Mattaiah met Stephenson. This Mattaiah tried to offer cash in regard to MLC elections. But, Stephenson approached ACB authorities believing that it is unethical. Later Sebastian, another person from TDP and after him Revanth Reddy entered the course of events. On May 30 Sebastian along with Revanth Reddy went straight to Stephenson’s residence to negotiate the deal. The duo told him that a secret meeting with Chandrababu will be arranged. The same day evening they made him speak to Chandrababu over phone. Chandrababu assured him that he will take care of everything and mentioned that his persons informed him about the deal. He then assured him that the promises will be honored. The next day i.e., on May 31 Revanth Reddy along with his aides met Stephenson with cash. The ACB Authorities who were already on alert arrested Revanth Reddy.\n\nWhen the Telugu Desam MLA Revanth Reddy got arrested everyone’s attention fell on the party’s activities. Already in Andhra Pradesh the Telugu Desam Party is facing allegations that it has bought several MPS, independent MLAs, local body leader, primarily in the Zilla parishad and mandal parishad elections, that the party has bribed MPTCs and ZPTCs to win Mandal president and ZP chairperson. Is it moving ahead with the same strategy in Telangana?, was the suspicion that spread out. In the meanwhile an audio tape came into light, stating that Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Mr.Chandrababu Naidu spoke to Stephenson. Based on what was aired in the TV news channels, Chandrababu Naidu had a phone conversation with Stephenson which contains the message,** our men told me everything, I will look into your matter, promises will be honoured, I am with you, don’t bother, we will work together.\n\nThe Telugu Desam party has started damage control measures to handle the repeated broadcasting of the conversation in the TV news channels. To begin with, Chandrababu went to Delhi and met the top cadre leaders. There was no favorable response from them, the Central Law Minister announced that they will not interfere in this matter. Governor Narsimhan also traveled to Delhi to submit a report on this matter. Outraged by this move the TDP Ministers and leaders started abusing the Governor; this became a hot topic of discussion. In the meanwhile the Telugu Desam aggravated emotions and anger throughout the State stating that this is a matter of prestige and dignity of Andhra Pradesh. They did propaganda that there is no safety to Andhra people in Hyderabad and demanded that Section-8 must be implemented in Hyderabad which was a common capital. To some extent this was successfully driven into the public. Surprisingly there is no word on Section-8 after the so believed truce accorded between two ruling parties.\n\nThe Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu took this seriously as discussions on this issue was propagating throughout the State. He focused all his attention on this matter for several days and conducted meetings and reviews with Police higher officials. He immediately sacked the then intelligence chief Mrs.Anuradha for failing to grab information about telangana ACB plans. The word spread rapidly that the chief initiator behind this scandal was Telugu Desam President Chandrababu Naidu after the arrest of Telugu Desam MLA Revanth Reddy in Cash for Vote scandal. Though it is a matter concerned to the Party, Chandrababu took it as a matter of the Andhra Pradesh Government and deployed the government authorities to handle the issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "50536975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50536975", "title": "2016 state of emergency in Venezuela", "text": "2016 state of emergency in Venezuela\n\nOn 13 May 2016 a state of emergency was declared in Venezuela by President Nicolás Maduro. The details of this emergency condition were not explained by Maduro but he mentioned conspiracy within the country and from an OPEC country and the United States to overthrow the Caracas government. The last state of emergency occurred in 2015 due to issues near the Colombian border, resulting in the suspension of constitutional guarantees and the Venezuela–Colombia migrant crisis.\n\nMaduro accused the United States of fomenting a hidden coup against his government. On May 13, Friday night, state television broadcast statements by Maduro saying: \"Washington is activating measures at the request of Venezuela’s fascist right, who are emboldened by the coup in Brazil.\" According to Maduro's opinion, the impeachment process against Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff is a sign that shows he is the next one. In a meeting with the Council of Ministers Maduro stated that the state of emergency decree is directed against \"oligarchical parasites and speculators\".\n\nIn the lead up to the declaration, United States intelligence officials announced that Washington was worried about an economic and political crisis in Venezuela, predicting that Maduro would not complete his presidency. The officials added: \"You can hear the ice cracking. You know there's a crisis coming.\"\n\nVenezuelan opposition want to recall Maduro as president and this demand has been associated with bad conditions such as food and medicine shortages, power cuts, looting and increasing of inflation rate, summing the allegations of corruption, drug trafficking and human rights violation. Tomás Guanipa, opposition lawmaker, said: \"Today Maduro has again violated the constitution. Why? Because he is scared of being recalled.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3679014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3679014", "title": "Academy of Legal Studies in Business", "text": "Academy of Legal Studies in Business\n\nThe Academy of Legal Studies in Business is an American-based professional association for teachers and scholars in the fields of business, law, legal environment, and law-related courses outside of professional law schools. It was founded in 1924, and now has an international membership. The nearly 1,000 members teach primarily in schools of business in colleges and universities, at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. Members come from all fifty states, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, England, and a number of other nations.\n\nThe Academy provides a forum for the exchange of ideas, and encourages support and cooperation among those who teach and conduct research in the field of legal studies. The Academy publishes two top-tier journals: the American Business Law Journal (ABLJ) and the Journal of Legal Studies Education (JLSE). For new faculty members in business law fields, the organization offers a Mentorship Program that pairs new ALSB members with experienced teachers and researchers. \n\nThe ALSB hosts an annual conference for members to share their scholarly works and teaching innovations. Recent conferences have been held in St. Petersburg, FL (2006), Indianapolis, IN (2007), Long Beach, CA (2008), Denver, CO (2009), Richmond, VA (2010), New Orleans, LA (2011), Kansas City, KS (2012), Boston, MA (2013), Seattle, WA (2014), Philadelphia, PA (2015), and San Juan, PR (2016). Upcoming locations include Savannah, GA (2017), Portland, OR (2018), and Montreal, Quebec, Canada (2019). \n\nIn addition to international events, the organization has twelve related regional organizations which host annual meetings. Several of the regional organizations also sponsor academic journals. \n"}
{"id": "682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=682", "title": "Adobe", "text": "Adobe\n\nAdobe (, ; ) (\")\" is a building material made from earth and organic materials. Adobe is Spanish for mudbrick, but in some English-speaking regions of Spanish heritage, the term is used to refer to any kind of earth construction. Most adobe buildings are similar in appearance to cob and rammed earth buildings. Adobe is among the earliest building materials, and is used throughout the world.\n\nAdobe bricks are rectangular prisms small enough that they can quickly air dry individually without cracking. They can be subsequently assembled, with the application of adobe mud to bond the individual bricks into a structure. There is no standard size, with substantial variations over the years and in different regions. In some areas a popular size measured 8\" inches x 4\" inches x 12\" inches weighing about 25 pounds; in other contexts the size is 10\" x 4\" x 14\" weighing about 35 pounds. The maximum sizes can reach up to 100 pound; above this weight it becomes difficult to move the pieces, and it is preferred to ram the mud \"in situ\", resulting in a different typology known as rammed earth.\n\nIn dry climates, adobe structures are extremely durable, and account for some of the oldest existing buildings in the world. Adobe buildings offer significant advantages due to their greater thermal mass, but they are known to be particularly susceptible to earthquake damage if they are not somehow reinforced. Cases where adobe structures were widely damaged during earthquakes include the 1976 Guatemala earthquake, the 2003 Bam earthquake, and the 2010 Chile earthquake.\n\nBuildings made of sun-dried earth are common throughout the world (Middle East, Western Asia, North Africa, West Africa, South America, southwestern North America, Spain, and Eastern Europe.) Adobe had been in use by indigenous peoples of the Americas in the Southwestern United States, Mesoamerica, and the Andes for several thousand years. Puebloan peoples built their adobe structures with handsful or basketsful of adobe, until the Spanish introduced them to making bricks. Adobe bricks were used in Spain from the Late Bronze and Iron Ages (eighth century BCE onwards). Its wide use can be attributed to its simplicity of design and manufacture, and economics.\n\nA distinction is sometimes made between the smaller \"adobes\", which are about the size of ordinary baked bricks, and the larger \"adobines\", some of which may be one to two yards (1–2 m) long.\n\nThe word \"adobe\" has existed for around 4000 years with relatively little change in either pronunciation or meaning. The word can be traced from the Middle Egyptian (c. 2000 BC) word \"ɟbt\" \"mudbrick.\" Middle Egyptian evolved into Late Egyptian, Demotic or \"pre-Coptic\", and finally to Coptic (c. 600 BC), where it appeared as τωωβε . This was adopted into Arabic as \"aṭ-ṭawbu\" or \"aṭ-ṭūbu\", with the definite article \"al-\" attached. \"tuba\", This was assimilated into the Old Spanish language as \"adobe\" , probably via Mozarabic. English borrowed the word from Spanish in the early 18th century, still referring to mudbrick construction.\nIn more modern English usage, the term \"adobe\" has come to include a style of architecture popular in the desert climates of North America, especially in New Mexico, regardless of the construction method.\n\nAn adobe brick is a composite material made of earth mixed with water and an organic material such as straw or dung. The soil composition typically contains sand, silt and clay. Straw is useful in binding the brick together and allowing the brick to dry evenly, thereby preventing cracking due to uneven shrinkage rates through the brick. Dung offers the same advantage. The most desirable soil texture for producing the mud of adobe is 15% clay, 10–30% silt, and 55–75% fine sand. Another source quotes 15–25% clay and the remainder sand and coarser particles up to cobbles , with no deleterious effect. Modern adobe is stabilized with either emulsified asphalt or Portland cement up to 10% by weight.\n\nNo more than half the clay content should be expansive clays, with the remainder non-expansive illite or kaolinite. Too much expansive clay results in uneven drying through the brick, resulting in cracking, while too much kaolinite will make a weak brick. Typically the soils of the Southwest United States, where such construction has been widely used, are an adequate composition.\n\nAdobe walls are load bearing, i.e. they carry their own weight into the foundation rather than by another structure, hence the adobe must have sufficient compressive strength. In the United States, most building codes call for a minimum compressive strength of 300 lbf/in (2.07 newton/mm) for the adobe block. Adobe construction should be designed so as to avoid lateral structural loads that would cause bending loads. The building codes require the building sustain a 1 g lateral acceleration earthquake load. Such an acceleration will cause lateral loads on the walls, resulting in shear and bending and inducing tensile stresses. To withstand such loads, the codes typically call for a tensile modulus of rupture strength of at least 50 lbf/in (0.345 newton/mm) for the finished block.\n\nIn addition to being an inexpensive material with a small resource cost, adobe can serve as a significant heat reservoir due to the thermal properties inherent in the massive walls typical in adobe construction. In climates typified by hot days and cool nights, the high thermal mass of adobe mediates the high and low temperatures of the day, moderating the temperature of the living space. The massive walls require a large and relatively long input of heat from the sun (radiation) and from the surrounding air (convection) before they warm through to the interior. After the sun sets and the temperature drops, the warm wall will continue to transfer heat to the interior for several hours due to the time-lag effect. Thus, a well-planned adobe wall of the appropriate thickness is very effective at controlling inside temperature through the wide daily fluctuations typical of desert climates, a factor which has contributed to its longevity as a building material.\n\nThermodynamic material properties are sparsely quoted. The thermal resistance of adobe is quoted as having an R-value of R = 0.41 h ft °F/(Btu in) and a conductivity of 0.57 W/(m K) quoted from another source. A third source provides the following properties: conductivity=0.30 Btu/(h ft °F); heat capacity=0.24 Btu/(lb °F); density=106 lb/ft (1700 kg/m). To determine the total R-value of a wall for example, multiply R by the thickness of the wall. From knowledge of the adobe density, heat capacity and a diffusivity value, the conductivity is found to be k = 0.20 Btu/(h ft °F) or 0.35 W/(m K). The heat capacity is commonly quoted as c = 0.20 Btu/(lb F) or 840 joules/(kg K). The density is 95 lb/ft or 1520 kg/m. The thermal diffusivity is calculated to be 0.0105 ft/h or 2.72x10 m/s.\n\nPoured and puddled adobe (puddled clay, piled earth), today called \"cob\", is made by placing soft adobe in layers, rather than by making individual dried bricks or using a form. \"Puddle\" is a general term for a clay or clay and sand-based material worked into a dense, plastic state. These are the oldest methods of building with adobe in the Americas until holes in the ground were used as forms, and later wooden forms used to make individual bricks were introduced by the Spanish.\n\nBricks made from adobe are usually made by pressing the mud mixture into an open timber frame. In North America, the brick is typically about in size. The mixture is molded into the frame, which is removed after initial setting. After drying for a few hours, the bricks are turned on edge to finish drying. Slow drying in shade reduces cracking.\n\nThe same mixture, without straw, is used to make mortar and often plaster on interior and exterior walls. Some cultures used lime-based cement for the plaster to protect against rain damage.\n\nDepending on the form into which the mixture is pressed, adobe can encompass nearly any shape or size, provided drying is even and the mixture includes reinforcement for larger bricks. Reinforcement can include manure, straw, cement, rebar or wooden posts. Experience has shown straw, cement, or manure added to a standard adobe mixture can all produce a stronger, more crack-resistant brick. A test is done on the soil content first. To do so, a sample of the soil is mixed into a clear container with some water, creating an almost completely saturated liquid. The container is shaken vigorously for one minute. It is then allowed to settle for a day until the soil has settled into layers. Heavier particles settle out first, sand above, silt above that and very fine clay and organic matter will stay in suspension for days. After the water has cleared, percentages of the various particles can be determined. Fifty to 60 percent sand and 35 to 40 percent clay will yield strong bricks. The Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service at New Mexico State University recommends a mix of not more than 1/3 clay, not less than 1/2 sand, and never more than 1/3 silt.\n\nThe ground supporting an adobe structure should be compressed, as the weight of adobe wall is significant and foundation settling may cause cracking of the wall. Footing depth is to below the ground frost level. The footing and stem wall are commonly 24 and 14 inches thick, respectively. Modern construction codes call for the use of reinforcing steel in the footing and stem wall. Adobe bricks are laid by course. Adobe walls usually never rise above two stories as they are load bearing and adobe has low structural strength. When creating window and door openings, a lintel is placed on top of the opening to support the bricks above. Atop the last courses of brick, bond beams made of heavy wood beams or modern reinforced concrete are laid to provide a horizontal bearing plate for the roof beams and to redistribute lateral earthquake loads to shear walls more able to carry the forces. To protect the interior and exterior adobe walls, finishes such as mud plaster, whitewash or stucco can be applied. These protect the adobe wall from water damage, but need to be reapplied periodically. Alternatively, the walls can be finished with other nontraditional plasters that provide longer protection. Bricks made with stabilized adobe generally do not need protection of plasters.\n\nThe traditional adobe roof has been constructed using a mixture of soil/clay, water, sand and organic materials. The mixture was then formed and pressed into wood forms, producing rows of dried earth bricks that would then be laid across a support structure of wood and plastered into place with more adobe.\n\nDepending on the materials available, a roof may be assembled using wood or metal beams to create a framework to begin layering adobe bricks. Depending on the thickness of the adobe bricks, the framework has been preformed using a steel framing and a layering of a metal fencing or wiring over the framework to allow an even load as masses of adobe are spread across the metal fencing like cob and allowed to air dry accordingly. This method was demonstrated with an adobe blend heavily impregnated with cement to allow even drying and prevent cracking.\n\nThe more traditional flat adobe roofs are functional only in dry climates that are not exposed to snow loads. The heaviest wooden beams, called vigas, lie atop the wall. Across the vigas lie smaller members called latillas and upon those brush is then laid. Finally, the adobe layer is applied.\n\nTo construct a flat adobe roof, beams of wood were laid to span the building, the ends of which were attached to the tops of the walls. Once the vigas, latillas and brush are laid, adobe bricks are placed. An adobe roof is often laid with bricks slightly larger in width to ensure a greater expanse is covered when placing the bricks onto the roof. Following each individual brick should be a layer of adobe mortar, recommended to be at least thick to make certain there is ample strength between the brick's edges and also to provide a relative moisture barrier during rain.\n\nRoof design evolved around 1850 in the American Southwest. Three inches of adobe mud was applied on top of the latillas, then 18 inches of dry adobe dirt applied to the roof. The dirt was contoured into a low slope to a downspout aka a 'canal'. When moisture was applied to the roof the clay particles expanded to create a waterproof membrane. Once a year it was necessary to pull the weeds from the roof and reslope the dirt as needed.\n\nDepending on the materials, adobe roofs can be inherently fire-proof. The construction of a chimney can greatly influence the construction of the roof supports, creating an extra need for care in choosing the materials. The builders can make an adobe chimney by stacking simple adobe bricks in a similar fashion as the surrounding walls.\n\nThe largest structure ever made from adobe is the Arg-é Bam built by the Achaemenid Empire. Other large adobe structures are the Huaca del Sol in Peru, with 100 million signed bricks and the \"ciudellas\" of Chan Chan and Tambo Colorado, both in Peru.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1701254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1701254", "title": "Application Services Library", "text": "Application Services Library\n\nThe Application Services Library (ASL) is a public domain framework of best practices used to standardize processes within Application Management, the discipline of producing and maintaining information systems and applications. The term \"library\" is used because ASL is presented as a set of books describing best practices from the IT industry.\n\nASL is closely related to the frameworks ITIL (for IT Service Management) and BiSL (for Information Management and Functional Management) and to the Capability Maturity Model (CMM).\n\nThe ASL framework was developed because ITIL proved inadequate for Application Management. At that time, ITIL lacked specific guidance for application design, development, maintenance and support. Newer ITIL versions, particularly V3, have increasingly addressed the Application Development and Application Management domains; the ASL BiSL Foundation has published a white paper comparing ITIL v3 and ASL.\n\nASL was developed in the late nineties in the Netherlands, originally as the proprietary R2C model, which evolved into ASL in 2000. In 2001 it was donated by the IT Service Provider PinkRoccade to the ASL Foundation, now the ASL BiSL Foundation. The version ASL2 was published in 2009.\n\nThe ASL2 is intended to support Application Management by providing tools. Two main categories of aids are defined:\n\nASL2 contains 3 levels, 6 clusters of processes (3 on the operational level, 1 on the tactical level, 2 on the strategic level) and a totality of 26 processes.\n\nApplication Support cluster\n\nThere are 4 processes within the Application Support cluster. The processes in the Service Organisation cluster support the daily use of the information systems. The processes in this cluster are: \nThese processes have as well been defined in the ITIL framework. The processes are similar, but are viewed from another point of view, therefore the activities in each of these processes may differ from the activities in an ITIL-environment.\n\nApplication Maintenance and Renewal cluster\n\nThere are 5 processes within the Application Maintenance and Renewal cluster. Within this cluster the majority of the work of Application Development is done. A major part of the work of Application Management deals with designing, programming and testing applications and information systems. Processes are:\nThese processes are not described at all in the ITIL V1 framework, but do have their counterparts in BiSL, the model for Information management / Functional Management.\n\nConnecting Processes Operational Level cluster\n\nThere are 2 processes within the Connecting Processes Operational Level cluster. The connecting processes aim at the synchronisation of the activities between Service Organisation/operations (using the applications) and development and maintenance (changing the applications). The two processes included are: \n\nManagement Processes cluster\n\nThere are 5 processes within the Management Processes cluster. The processes in this cluster are used in the management of the activities within the clusters on the operational level. The processes are located on the tactical level, are used for steering the operational processes. The processes included are: \n\nApplication Strategy cluster\n\nThere are 5 processes within the Application Strategy cluster. Applications live for longer than expected. Systems, functionality, concepts and structure of information systems remain stable over many years. This knowledge is rarely used. It is important that, while maintaining and enhancing systems, there is a clear view needed what the demands are in the future, and based on that, what and how the future of these applications should look like. \nThis view, the application management strategies, is created within the cluster Application Strategy. The processes in this cluster are:\n\nApplication Management Organization Strategy cluster\n\nThere are 5 processes within the Application Management Organization Strategy cluster. Also the future of the Application Management organisation, with aspects as skills and capabilities, markets and customers, is very important. Creating the organisation management strategies for this is the aim of Application Management Organization Strategy cluster. Processes in this cluster include:\n\nThere is also ASL2 Maturity Model with 5 levels of process maturity:\n\nOfficial whitepapers:\n\n"}
{"id": "160773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160773", "title": "Argonne National Laboratory", "text": "Argonne National Laboratory\n\nArgonne National Laboratory is a science and engineering research national laboratory operated by the University of Chicago Argonne LLC for the United States Department of Energy located near Lemont, Illinois, outside Chicago. It is the largest national laboratory by size and scope in the Midwest.\n\nArgonne was initially formed to carry out Enrico Fermi's work on nuclear reactors as part of the Manhattan Project, and it was designated as the first national laboratory in the United States on July 1, 1946. In the post-war era the lab focused primarily on non-weapon related nuclear physics, designing and building the first power-producing nuclear reactors, helping design the reactors used by the US's nuclear navy, and a wide variety of similar projects. In 1994 the lab's nuclear mission ended, and today it maintains a broad portfolio in basic science research, energy storage and renewable energy, environmental sustainability, supercomputing, and national security.\n\nUChicago Argonne, LLC, the operator of the laboratory, \"brings together the expertise of the University of Chicago (the sole member of the LLC) with Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.\" Argonne is a part of the expanding Illinois Technology and Research Corridor. Argonne formerly ran a smaller facility called Argonne National Laboratory-West (or simply Argonne-West) in Idaho next to the Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory. In 2005, the two Idaho-based laboratories merged to become the Idaho National Laboratory.\n\nArgonne has five main areas of focus. These goals, as stated by the DOE in 2008, consist of:\n\n\nArgonne began in 1942 as the \"Metallurgical Laboratory\" at the University of Chicago, which became part of the Manhattan Project. The Met Lab built Chicago Pile-1, the world's first nuclear reactor, under the stands of a University of Chicago sports stadium. Considered unsafe, in 1943, CP-1 was reconstructed as CP-2, in what is today known as Red Gate Woods but was then the Argonne Forest of the Cook County Forest Preserve District near Palos Hills. The lab was named after the surrounding Argonne Forest, which in turn was named after the Forest of Argonne in France where U.S. troops fought in World War I. Fermi's pile was originally going to be constructed in the Argonne forest, and construction plans were set in motion, but a labor dispute brought the project to a halt. Since speed was paramount, the project was moved to the squash court under Stagg Field, the football field on the campus of the University of Chicago. Fermi told them that he was sure of his calculations, which said that it would not lead to a runaway reaction, which would have contaminated the city.\n\nOther activities were added to Argonne over the next five years. On July 1, 1946, the \"Metallurgical Laboratory\" was formally re-chartered as Argonne National Laboratory for \"cooperative research in nucleonics.\" At the request of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, it began developing nuclear reactors for the nation's peaceful nuclear energy program. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, the laboratory moved to a larger location in unincorporated DuPage County, Illinois and established a remote location in Idaho, called \"Argonne-West,\" to conduct further nuclear research.\n\nIn quick succession, the laboratory designed and built Chicago Pile 3 (1944), the world's first heavy-water moderated reactor, and the Experimental Breeder Reactor I (Chicago Pile 4), built in Idaho, which lit a string of four light bulbs with the world's first nuclear-generated electricity in 1951. A complete list of the reactors designed and, in most cases, built and operated by Argonne can be viewed in the, \"Reactors Designed by Argonne\" page. The knowledge gained from the Argonne experiments conducted with these reactors 1) formed the foundation for the designs of most of the commercial reactors currently used throughout the world for electric power generation and 2) inform the current evolving designs of liquid-metal reactors for future commercial power stations.\n\nConducting classified research, the laboratory was heavily secured; all employees and visitors needed badges to pass a checkpoint, many of the buildings were classified, and the laboratory itself was fenced and guarded. Such alluring secrecy drew visitors both authorized—including King Leopold III of Belgium and Queen Frederica of Greece—and unauthorized. Shortly past 1 a.m. on February 6, 1951, Argonne guards discovered reporter Paul Harvey near the perimeter fence, his coat tangled in the barbed wire. Searching his car, guards found a previously prepared four-page broadcast detailing the saga of his unauthorized entrance into a classified \"hot zone\". He was brought before a federal grand jury on charges of conspiracy to obtain information on national security and transmit it to the public, but was not indicted.\n\nNot all nuclear technology went into developing reactors, however. While designing a scanner for reactor fuel elements in 1957, Argonne physicist William Nelson Beck put his own arm inside the scanner and obtained one of the first ultrasound images of the human body. Remote manipulators designed to handle radioactive materials laid the groundwork for more complex machines used to clean up contaminated areas, sealed laboratories or caves. In 1964, the \"Janus\" reactor opened to study the effects of neutron radiation on biological life, providing research for guidelines on safe exposure levels for workers at power plants, laboratories and hospitals. Scientists at Argonne pioneered a technique to analyze the moon's surface using alpha radiation, which launched aboard the Surveyor 5 in 1967 and later analyzed lunar samples from the Apollo 11 mission.\n\nIn addition to nuclear work, the laboratory maintained a strong presence in the basic research of physics and chemistry. In 1955, Argonne chemists co-discovered the elements einsteinium and fermium, elements 99 and 100 in the periodic table. In 1962, laboratory chemists produced the first compound of the inert noble gas xenon, opening up a new field of chemical bonding research. In 1963, they discovered the hydrated electron.\n\nHigh-energy physics made a leap forward when Argonne was chosen as the site of the 12.5 GeV Zero Gradient Synchrotron, a proton accelerator that opened in 1963. A bubble chamber allowed scientists to track the motions of subatomic particles as they zipped through the chamber; in 1970, they observed the neutrino in a hydrogen bubble chamber for the first time.\n\nMeanwhile, the laboratory was also helping to design the reactor for the world's first nuclear-powered submarine, the U.S.S. \"Nautilus\", which steamed for more than 513,550 nautical miles (951,090 km). The next nuclear reactor model was Experimental Boiling Water Reactor, the forerunner of many modern nuclear plants, and Experimental Breeder Reactor II (EBR-II), which was sodium-cooled, and included a fuel recycling facility. EBR-II was later modified to test other reactor designs, including a fast-neutron reactor and, in 1982, the Integral Fast Reactor concept—a revolutionary design that reprocessed its own fuel, reduced its atomic waste and withstood safety tests of the same failures that triggered the Chernobyl and Three Mile Island disasters. In 1994, however, the U.S. Congress terminated funding for the bulk of Argonne's nuclear programs.\n\nArgonne moved to specialize in other areas, while capitalizing on its experience in physics, chemical sciences and metallurgy. In 1987, the laboratory was the first to successfully demonstrate a pioneering technique called plasma wakefield acceleration, which accelerates particles in much shorter distances than conventional accelerators. It also cultivated a strong battery research program.\n\nFollowing a major push by then-director Alan Schriesheim, the laboratory was chosen as the site of the Advanced Photon Source, a major X-ray facility which was completed in 1995 and produced the brightest X-rays in the world at the time of its construction.\n\nOver the course of its history, 13 eminent scientists have served as Argonne Director:\n\n\n\nArgonne builds and maintains scientific facilities that would be too expensive for a single company or university to construct and operate. These facilities are used by scientists from Argonne, private industry, academia, other national laboratories and international scientific organizations.\n\n\nArgonne welcomes all members of the public age 16 or older to take guided tours of the scientific and engineering facilities and grounds. Tours last about two and a half hours. For children under 16, Argonne offers a range of hands-on learning activities suitable for K–12 field trips and scout outings. The laboratory also hosts educational science and engineering outreach for schools in the surrounding area.\n\nArgonne scientists and engineers help advance science, engineering, and mathematics education in the United States by taking part in the training of nearly 1,000 college graduate students and post-doctoral researchers every year as part of their research and development activities.\n\nSignificant portions of the 1996 chase film \"Chain Reaction\" were shot in the Zero Gradient Synchrotron ring room and the former Continuous Wave Deuterium Demonstrator laboratory.\n\nIn the original Netflix series \"Stranger Things\", Hawkins National Laboratory is based on this facility and location.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52118689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52118689", "title": "Bangladesh Law Commission", "text": "Bangladesh Law Commission\n\nBangladesh Law Commission is an independent body, set up through an act passed in the national parliament that reviews laws and recommends reforms when necessary in Bangladesh and is located in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Former chief justice A. B. M. Khairul Haque is the present chairman of the commission.\n\nThere has a number of temporary law commissions in the history of Bangladesh, the first one being set up in 1974. On 9 September 1996 the first permanent law commission was constituted. The first chairman of the commission was Fazle Kaderi Mohammad Abdul Munim, a former chief justice of Bangladesh. In 2016 it drafted the Liberation War Denial Crimes Act, 2016 which made denying war crimes in the Bangladesh Liberation war a crime.\n"}
{"id": "3497908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3497908", "title": "Blackshirts (India)", "text": "Blackshirts (India)\n\nBlackshirts are members of the anti-religious, atheist quasi-political organization Dravidar Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu, founded by \"Periyar\" E V Ramasamy. The members wear black shirts to mock and protest the saffron vestments of Hindu religious leaders and sadhus as black is generally associated with death and bad-luck in contrast with saffron's auspicious association. This has its origins in the banning of black flags as a protest tool in Tamil Nadu. To circumvent this ban, members wore black shirts. Black shirts and black flags were also seen as a symbol of anarchy in southern India especially in Tamil Nadu during the early 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2447271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2447271", "title": "Boris Chicherin", "text": "Boris Chicherin\n\nBoris Nikolayevich Chicherin () (May 26, 1828 – February 3, 1904) was a Russian Empire jurist and political philosopher, who worked out a theory that Russia needed a strong, authoritative government to persevere with liberal reforms. By the time of the Russian Revolution, Chicherin was probably the most reputable legal philosopher and historian in Russia.\n\nChicherin was born in Tambov, where his noble ancestors had been residing for many centuries. In 1849, he matriculated from the law department of the Moscow University. On insistence of Dr. Timofey Granovsky, he continued to work in the university as a professor of Russian law. Together with his friend Konstantin Kavelin, he penned a comprehensive program of Russian liberalism which was published by Alexander Herzen in London.\n\nChicherin was a great champion of Alexander II's reforms of the 1860s, hailing them as \"the best monument of Russian legislation\". He published the \"Regional Administration of 17th-century Russia\" in 1856, followed by the treatise \"On Popular Representation\" 10 years later. Chicherin's mature works, imbued with Hegel's thought as they were, advocated the constitutional monarchy as an ideal form of government for Russia.\n\nIn 1868, Chicherin resigned his position at the university as a protest against government repressions and settled in his estate near Tambov. It was here that he wrote several volumes of his bulky \"History of Political Theories\". Its magnificent literary style was acclaimed by such masters as Ivan Turgenev and Leo Tolstoy.\n\nLater, Chicherin returned to Moscow, where he was elected the city mayor in 1882. At that period, he supported Alexander's harsh measures in Poland and the tsar's struggle against radical revolutionaries. His speech at Alexander III's coronation in the Kremlin was interpreted as too liberal, however, and he was forced to resign. He spent his last years writing 4 volumes of memoirs and some books on chemistry, zoology, and geometry.\nThe memoirs have been reprinted by Oriental Research Partners (Newtonville, MA) in 1974 with a new introduction on Chicherin's life by Prof. D. Hammer, Indiana University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4845155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4845155", "title": "Burke Act", "text": "Burke Act\n\nBurke Act (1906), also known as the Forced Fee Patenting Act, amended the Dawes Act of 1887 (formally known as the General Allotment Act (\"GAA\"), under which the communal land held by tribes on the Indian reservations was broken up and distributed in severalty to individual households of tribal members. It required the government to assess whether individuals were \"competent and capable\" before giving them fee simple patents to their allotted land.\n\nBecause the federal government believed that most Indians were not prepared for United States citizenship, the act further provided that citizenship not be granted to Native American individuals until at the time of the final validation of their trust patents, at the end of the probationary period of 25 years, instead of upon the receipt of the trust patents, as stated in the Dawes Act. It was named for U. S. Congressman Charles H. Burke.\n\nThe Burke Act amended the GAA to provide for the Secretary of the Interior to assess individual Native Americans as ‘competent and capable.’ before issuing any person receiving a land allotment a patent in fee simple. Receiving a fee simple patent meant that the land of the allotee would be removed from federal trust status and made subject to taxation. The allotee would be able to sell it on the private market.\n\nThe act reads:\n\nStudies have shown that Bureau of Indian Affairs officials tended first to classify people as 'competent and capable' if they were of mixed-race (with some European ancestry). These allotees were deemed ‘competent’ because BIA officials believed that their European ancestry made them mentally superior, that they were more likely to be assimilated culturally, and therefore they were able to take responsibility of their land.\n\nAllowing officials to assess competence made administration of the act more subjective, increasing the exclusionary power of the Secretary of Interior and inviting corruption among those with an opportunity to profit by gaining Indian-owned land. Although the act gave power to the allotee to decide whether to keep or sell the land, provided the harsh economic reality of the time, and lack of access by many Native Americans on reservations to credit and markets, liquidation of Indian-owned lands was almost inevitable. The Department of Interior officials associated with this program expected that virtually 95% of fee patented land would eventually be sold to whites.\n\nThe following passage from the 1913 annual report from the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation reveals that the supervisor of the reservation expected eventual dispossession of land after individual Lakota people had been issued fee patent. The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) reservation superintendent characterized this result as a ‘valuable lesson.’ \n\nThe Burke Act had other consequences. In some cases, individual Indians deemed \"competent\" were not notified of the status and were not informed that their land's status had shifted from trust land to fee patent. As a result, individual owners did not realize the land was subject to taxation. After a period of taxes being unpaid, local or state jurisdictions could sell the land without the owner's consent to pay past taxes. This process was known as the \"forced fee patent process.\" In this way, the Burke Act contributed to the ongoing fractionation of lands within reservation boundaries and overall loss of Tribal or Indian-owned lands.\n\nThe Dawes Act had provided for Native Americans to be granted United States citizenship (for those who did not yet have it) when they received their trust patents to the individual allotment of land. Because of a range of problems that arose during implementation of the allotment program on different reservations, federal officials had concluded that most Indians were not prepared for United States citizenship and its obligations.\n\nThe Burke Act was amended to postpone granting of citizenship to Native American individuals in cases related to land allotments until the conclusion of a 25-year probationary period, at the end of which their trust patents would receive final validation. This had numerous adverse results. For one, effectively this meant that Native Americans were given some tools to participate in United States society in an assimilated way (by holding private lands) but they were excluded as voters from the political system and could not draw on it, even to gain help from Congressional or state representatives, to help them through problems arising from the lucrative markets in land.\n\n"}
{"id": "18866363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18866363", "title": "Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd", "text": "Burnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd\n\nBurnie Port Authority v General Jones Pty Ltd, is a tort law case from the High Court of Australia, which decided it would abolish the rule in \"Rylands v Fletcher\", and the \"ignis suus\" principle, incorporating them generally into the tort of negligence.\n\nA fire, caused by an independent contractor’s employee welding negligently, began on the defendant’s premises and spread to a nearby property. The property was burnt causing A$2.5M of damages. The plaintiff sued under \"ignis suus\", nuisance, negligence and the rule in \"Rylands v Fletcher\" (a rule of absolute liability), interpreted in part through the duty of occupier to invitee.\n\nThe defendant was Burnie Port Authority (Burnie), located in Burnie Tasmania, who provided storage facilities, and the plaintiff was General Jones who stored a large quantity of frozen vegetables. General Jones suffered damage when the vegetables were ruined by fire which destroyed Burnie property.\n\n\nThe High Court held that Rylands involved ‘quite unacceptable uncertainty’. It said that Blackburn J’s formulation had been ‘all but obliterated by subsequent judicial explanations and qualifications’. And at the time of \"Rylands\", negligence liability was limited to ‘a miscellany of disparate categories of cases’ and only with \"Heaven v Pender\" and \"Donoghue v Stevenson\", was liability grounded on general foreseeability. The justices therefore felt that the rule should be done away with and so the independent contractor was not liable under that, but could only be culpable in the law of negligence.\n\nHCA Held: The appeal by Burnie was dismissed. \nBurnie, by allowing its contractor to introduce dangerous substances and activities on site, owed a duty of care to Jones to take reasonable steps to prevent fire, and the breach created liability under the normal rules of negligence. The joint judgment stated \"The rule in Rylands v Fletcher, with all its difficulties, uncertainties, qualifications, and exceptions, should now be seen ... as absorbed by the rules of ordinary negligence. Under those principles, a person who takes advantage of his or her control of premises to introduce a dangerous substance, to carry on a dangerous activity, or to allow another to do one of those things, owes a duty of reasonable care to avoid a reasonably foreseeble risk of injury or damage to the person or the property of another.\"\n\nThe \"ignis suus\" (his or her fire) rule was held to be ancient common law that was modified by statute in the UK, but never became law in Australia.\n\nDamages in the tort of nuisance were not pleaded in the HCA.\n\n"}
{"id": "25972269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25972269", "title": "California Insurance Code", "text": "California Insurance Code\n\nThe California Insurance Code are the codified California laws regarding insurance. The code not only covers requirements for home, auto, medical and business insurance policies, but also covers the licensing of bail bond agents, workers' compensation, motor club services, and other related business types. Topics include: classes of insurance, code provisions governing the insurance commissioner, laws pertaining to insurance adjusters, insurance contracts, liability limitations, and common carrier liability insurance. The California Department of Insurance oversees the enforcement of the code and execution of its policies.\n\nIn September 2000, Governor Gray Davis signed State Bill 2199 into law, adding a provision into the California Insurance Code for creation of a Slavery Era Insurance Registry. The bill was created with the intent of preserving historical information regarding slave owners and their slaves in order to provide genealogical research information for slave descendants as well as to preserve possible evidence for potential reparation claims. The bill requires insurance companies to provide the California Department of Insurance with any historical records regarding slaveholder insurance policies issued by any predecessor corporation during the era of slavery. The information collected is to be made available to the public by the Department.\n\nUnder the code sections 331 and 359, when an insured has misrepresented or concealed facts which are material to the application for insurance, the underwriter may rescind the policy. On March 8, 2005, the California Court of Appeal's 2nd Appellate District Div. Five affirmed and enforced California's Marine Rule in \"James E. Mitchell, Individually and as Trustee of the Mitchell Family Trust vs. United National Ins. Co.\". The summary finding stated:\n[A]n insurer may, under [California] Insurance Code sections 331 and 359, rescind a fire insurance policy based on an insured's negligent or unintentional misrepresentation of a material fact in an insurance application, notwithstanding the willful misrepresentation clause included in the required standard form fire insurance policy (Insurance Code sections 2070 and 2071). \n"}
{"id": "48099107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48099107", "title": "Cambridge University Act 1856", "text": "Cambridge University Act 1856\n\nThe Cambridge University Act 1856 is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom, which regulates corporate governance at the University of Cambridge. It requires that most members of full-time academic staff have voting rights over the Council of the Senate, which is ultimately the leading body in the university's administration.\n\nSection 5, states that the Council of the Senate is the top management body.\n\nSection 12, concerns \"Votes of electors.\" It states,\n\n‘In all elections of members of the Council every elector may vote for any number of persons, being heads of colleges, professors, or members of the Senate as aforesaid respectively, not exceeding the number of heads of colleges, professors, or members of the Senate respectively to be then chosen; and in case of an equality of votes for any two or more of such heads of colleges, professors, or members of the Senate respectively, the Vice-Chancellor shall name from amongst those persons for whom the number of votes shall be equal as many as shall be requisite to complete the number of heads of colleges, professors, or members of the Senate to be then chosen.’\n\n"}
{"id": "2588898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2588898", "title": "Cloud on title", "text": "Cloud on title\n\nIn United States property law, cloud on title or title defect refers to any irregularity in the chain of title of property (usually real property) that would give a reasonable person pause before accepting a conveyance of title. According to Investopedia, a cloud can be defined as: \"Any document, claim, unreleased lien or encumbrance that might invalidate or impair the title to real property or make the title doubtful. Clouds on title are usually discovered during a title search.\" Clouded title can thus be contrasted with a clear title, which indicates that a property is unencumbered. \n\nA cloud on title may reduce the value and marketability of property because any prospective buyer aware of the cloud will know that they are buying the risk the grantor may not be able to convey good title. Often, the discovery of a cloud on title will provide the grantee a reason to back out of a contract for the sale of real property. Some documents that affect title may be considered clouds, but nonetheless are unlikely to affect marketability or resale, such as with covenants, conditions and restrictions in a homeowner's association or subdivision.\n\nExamples of clouds on title include a property's address being misspelled in a deed conveying title, a mortgage lien whose repayment hasn't been officially recorded, a deed which has been signed but hasn't been properly recorded, an easement that has not been properly recorded, unpaid property taxes, a failure to transfer property rights (such as mineral rights) to a former owner of the property, and a pending lawsuit before a court of law over ownership to the property. The usual remedy for a cloud on title is to file a civil action to quiet title which resolves the outstanding or unresolved cloud. \n\n"}
{"id": "45603937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45603937", "title": "Council of Luxembourg", "text": "Council of Luxembourg\n\nThe Council of Luxembourg was the central institution in the government of the Duchy of Luxembourg from 1444 to 1795, in direct descent from the medieval council of the dukes. It was a body that had both administrative and judicial authority. The council was reorganized by Charles V in 1531–1532. Until 1782, legal decisions of the council could be appealed to the Great Council of Mechelen. On 1 August 1782 the council was made \"sovereign\", that is, the highest court in its jurisdiction.\n\nThe council was abolished on 7 June 1795.\n\n"}
{"id": "39901907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39901907", "title": "EurObserv'ER", "text": "EurObserv'ER\n\nEurObserv'ER is a consortium dedicated to the monitoring of the development of the various sectors of renewable energies in the European Union.\n\nCreated in 1999 by Observ'ER, the Observatory of renewable energies in France, it is composed of five other partners: ECN (The Energy research Centre of the Netherlands), IEO (EC BREC Institute of Renewable Energetic Ltd), RENAC (Renewables Academy AG), FS (Frankfurt School of finance and management) and IJS (Institut Jozef Stefan).\n\nEach year it publishes a number of reports, one for each sector: photovoltaic, wind energy, solid biomass, hydro, solar thermal, concentrated solar power, ocean energies, geothermal energy, biofuels, biogas and solid waste. These reports are called \"Barometers\", e.g. \"Biofuels barometer 2013\". These barometers summarises the state for each of the EU member states for the particular energy sector using both technical and socioeconomic indicators. It also publishes an annual report on the state of renewable energies in Europe.\n\nEurObserv'ER provides free information to a large public and many other actors as the policy makers, industry players and journalists. \nIt is supported by the Intelligent Energy- Europe Programme, Ademe and Caisse des Dépôts.\n\nEurObserv'ER's objective is to provide a synthetic and a very reactive picture of the energy, industry and policy trends observed in the EU 28 Member States for each RES sector. Thus, it gives a reactive measurement tool that makes up for the gap between the end of the year and the time when official statistics are released.\n\nBy monitoring the EU Member States progression towards the 2020 RES directive targets, EurObserv'ER works as a support to the fulfilment of the EU policy to develop the RES share of gross final energy consumption\nThe current project will extend the scope of indicators and analysis to the integration of Croatia and the provision of a complete set of investment indicators. In fact, because of the economic crisis, public spending on RES development are being decreased in many Member States, so the EurObserv'ER team wants to help attracting private investments in the RES sectors.\n\nSince 1999, the EurObserv'ER barometer project has been an independent tool, which provides relevant, synthetic and reliable indicators on the level of development of renewable energy sectors within countries of the European Union in support of the European legislation dedicated to the development of renewable energy production. The fields covered by EurObserv’ER are related to energy, industry, socioeconomic dimensions and, with this new phase of work, investment indicators.\nThe barometers do not only provide reliable figures on the markets but also analysis and description of the facts and trends in each RES sector. They publish comparable data by using collection and calculation methodologies that are the same for all the countries of EU.\n\nThey illustrate the contribution of RES development to European economy, activities and employment. The socio-economic indicators that are constructed on a European and national level help evidence that RES sectors have a lot of assets to help the transition to a competitive, dynamic and knowledge based economy.\n\n« The State of Renewable Energy in Europe » provides clear landmarks of where the Member States stand as a whole about the RES share of gross final energy consumption.\nAll barometers will be available in up to five languages soon: English, French, German, Polish, and Romanian. Some of them will also be available in Italian and Spanish.\n\nSet up in 1980, Observ'ER, composed of economists and policy experts, produces studies that are recognised on the national and European levels.\n\nListened to and respected for the rigour of its work, Observ'ER publishes Systèmes Solaires, Le Journal des energies renouvelables, a bi-monthly magazine about renewable energy and two special editions about the photovoltaic and wind power sectors. In this way it plays an advisory role for public authorities and decision-makers, and takes an active part in major contemporary energy debates. \nIts other mission is to quantify and qualify the progress made by renewable energies. \nObserv'ER has been successfully leading the consortium since the creation of the EurObserv’ER project.\n\nThe Energy research Centre of the Netherlands (ECN) is active within the transition area between fundamental research carried out by universities and the application of knowledge within the market. It is the largest research center in the Netherlands in the field of energy (600 people employed by the end of 2006).\n\nECN focuses on the knowledge and information required by the government to develop and evaluate policies and to achieve policy objectives in the field of energy, the environment and technological innovation.\nECN works together with national and international industry in the development and implementation of products, processes and technologies important for the transition to a sustainable energy system. The multidisciplinary project teams provide consultancy services at the national, European and global level.\n\nEC BREC Institute of Renewable Energetic Ltd is an independent consultancy company, established in 2001. In EC BREC Ltd, the personal knowledge and experience of experts is used to develop projects connected with renewable energy promotion and implementation in Poland.\n\nEC BREC Ltd provides 22 highly qualified specialists, with sound expert background in renewable energy and sustainable energy problems. Depending on the requirements, the projects are supported by experts working in various fields of utilisation of renewables. For instance, they bring support to the national government in preparation of legal regulations, policies and strategies or promotion of mechanisms and instruments supporting development of RES in the European Union.\n\nSince June 2010, RENAC is partner of the EurObserv’ER consortium. The Renewables Academy AG (RENAC), based in Berlin, is one of the leading international providers of education and training in the fields of renewable energy and energy efficiency. Since the founding of RENAC in January 2008, over two thousand participants from more than 100 countries worldwide have benefited from their expertise in the technology, financing, management and market development of renewable energy and energy efficiency.\n\nThe rapid growth of the renewable energy and energy efficiency markets has led to increased demand for expertise and qualifications throughout the industry, financial institutions and policy-setting bodies. Through training and professional services, RENAC aims to propagate the necessary know-how for the growth of renewable energy and energy efficiency markets.\n\nThe Jožef Stefan Institute is the leading Slovenian research organisation. It is responsible for a broad spectrum of basic and applied research in the fields of natural sciences and technology. The staff of around 850 specialise in research in physics, chemistry and biochemistry, electronics and information science, nuclear technology, energy utilisation and environmental science.\n\nThe Jožef Stefan Institute – Energy Efficiency Centre (JSI/EEC) basic activities are related to efficient energy use, long-term energy planning and the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions. The Centre is a focal point for the collection and transfer of energy-efficiency technologies to the energy users, the state, the energy-service and equipment providers, and other interested parties. The most significant part of the EEC’s activities is thus the co-operation with state institutions in the preparation of strategic documents and legislation relating to the efficient energy use, energy planning, distributed electricity production and emission trading. But it also continues to be strongly connected, through its consulting and training activities, with industrial companies and other institutions. Its network of contacts extends to the Czech Republic and Croatia.\n\nFrankfurt School of Finance & Management is a leading private Business School and advisory institute in Germany with more than 50 years experience in consulting, qualification, project implementation, and training services. Frankfurt School's mission is to advance national and international business practices through academic research, executive education, and advisory activities. Frankfurt School is a non-profit, limited liability company with almost 400 employees. \nThe International Advisory Services (IAS) department is committed to improve financial markets and to increase access to finance for small enterprises and low-income populations. IAS is structured in seven core competence centres, whereas one is exclusively dedicated to Sustainable Energy Finance. Accordingly, IAS assists financial institutions in developing a business segment for financing of energy efficiency measures and renewable energy investments. Besides strategy and product development, marketing, and adaptation of procedures and reporting, it puts a special focus on capacity building through classroom and on-the-job trainings. \nFurthermore, Frankfurt School is active in networking for international best practice exchange as well as applied research with regards to financing aspects of climate change mitigation, adaptation, and financial sector involvement.\n\nOver time, the EurObserv'ER barometer has become a reference in Europe (in 2012, more than 92 000 downloads were counted). Numerous actors use its indicators:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10926964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10926964", "title": "Fab 40", "text": "Fab 40\n\nThe \"Fab 40\" (\"i.e.\" \"Fabulous Forty\") was a weekly playlist of popular records used by the British \"pirate\" radio station \"Wonderful\" Radio London (also known as \"Big L\") which broadcast off the Essex coast from 1964 to 1967.\n\n\"Fab\" (short for \"fabulous\") was a very fashionable adjective in the mid-1960s, associated with the Beatles, who were known as the \"Fab Four\", and much used by such trend-setters as Cathy McGowan, who presented the weekly rock music show \"Ready Steady Go!\" on independent television. \n\nUnlike the charts published in the \"Melody Maker\", \"New Musical Express\" and other music papers (or, for that matter, used by the BBC or the rival pirate station Radio Caroline ), the Fab 40 was not based on sales of records. Thus, although it mostly contained what was current and popular, it was often ahead of movements in the authentic charts and was subject to more dramatic fluctuations. Whereas, in the sales charts of the 1960s, many records would climb in stages and then drop gradually, a record might suddenly emerge near the top of the Fab 40 one week and disappear from it the next. Equally, there was often room for records to scale the higher echelons of the Fab 40 without entering the sales charts at all (for example, the Settlers' \"Nowhere Man\" in March 1966 ). As a result, a number of records that are well remembered from the mid-1960s were not, in fact, particularly successful in commercial terms.\n\nThe Fab 40 was unveiled each week during a three-hour programme at lunchtime on Sunday (11am to 2pm), which, through such programmes as \"Family Favourites\" and \"Beyond Our Ken\", the BBC had established as a prime time for radio listening. The show, which followed the \"Colgate-Palmolive Request Hour\", was presented by the station's disc jockeys on a rotational basis. This format largely mirrored that of the BBC's \"Pick of the Pops\", which Alan Freeman had presented each Sunday on the Light Programme since 1961. \n\nThe final Fab 40 show was introduced by Tommy Vance on 6 August 1967, the number one record that week being the Beach Boys' \"Heroes and Villains\", which entered the chart in the top position (whereas, in terms of sales, it entered the British top 20 a month later and reached no higher than number eight ). Radio London closed on 14 August 1967 following enactment of the Marine Broadcasting Offences Act that, in effect, outlawed such stations. In August 2007 the final \"Fab 40\" was re-presented by former Radio London disc jockey Dave Cash as part of a celebration on BBC Radio Essex to mark the fortieth anniversary of the pirates' demise.\n\nWhen the BBC opened its own \"pop\" station Radio One in September 1967, its sales-based top 30 chart was known informally for a time as the \"Fun 30\", no doubt in imitation of London's \"Fab 40\".\n\nSome 30–40 years after they were in use, meticulous attempts were made to reconstruct the Fab 40 charts by Radio London Ltd. These drew on surviving lists prepared between 1965 and 1967, at Radio London's offices at 17 Curzon Street in London and informal ones compiled at the time by listeners, although there were sometimes discrepancies between the \"official\" list and the records that were actually delivered to the ship, the \"MV Galaxy\". Complete charts are available on the Radio London website, from 24 January 1965, five weeks after the station opened, till the final Fab 40, 6 August 1967 and are regularly updated with new information and input from featured artists. The first Fab 40 anticipated the sales chart a week later, when the Moody Blues were at number one with \"Go Now\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1080823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1080823", "title": "GSM frequency bands", "text": "GSM frequency bands\n\nGSM frequency bands or frequency ranges are the cellular frequencies designated by the ITU for the operation of GSM mobile phones and other mobile devices.\n\nA dual-band 900/1800 device is required to be compatible with most networks apart from deployments in ITU-Region 2.\n\nGSM-900 and GSM-1800 are used in most parts of the world (ITU-Regions 1 and 3): Africa, Europe, Middle East, Asia (apart from Japan and South Korea where GSM has never been introduced) and Oceania.\n\nIn common GSM-900 is most widely used. Fewer operators use GSM-1800. Mobile Communication Services on Aircraft (MCA) uses GSM-1800.\n\nIn some countries GSM-1800 is also referred to as \"Digital Cellular System\" (DCS).\n\nGSM-1900 and GSM-850 are used in most of North, South and Central America (ITU-Region 2).\nIn North America, GSM operates on the primary mobile communication bands 850 MHz and 1900 MHz. In Canada, GSM-1900 is the primary band used in urban areas with 850 as a backup, and GSM-850 being the primary rural band. In the United States, regulatory requirements determine which area can use which band.\n\nThe term \"Cellular\" is sometimes used to describe GSM services in the 850 MHz band, because the original analog cellular mobile communication system was allocated in this spectrum. Further GSM-850 is also sometimes called \"GSM-800\" because this frequency range was known as the \"800 MHz band\" (for simplification) when it was first allocated for AMPS in the United States in 1983. In North America GSM-1900 is also referred to as Personal Communications Service (PCS) like any other cellular system operating on the \"1900 MHz band\".\n\nSome countries in Central and South America have allocated spectrum in the 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands for GSM in addition to the common GSM deployments at 850 MHz and 1900 MHz for ITU-Region 2 (Americas). The result therefore is a mixture of usage in the Americas that requires travelers to confirm that the devices they have are compatible with the bands of the network at their destination. Frequency compatibility problems can be avoided through the use of multi-band (tri-band or, especially, quad-band) device.\n\nThe following countries are mixing GSM 900/1800 and GSM 850/1900 bands:\n\nAnother less common GSM version is GSM-450. It uses the same band as, and can co-exist with, old analog NMT systems. NMT is a first generation (1G) mobile system which was primarily used in Nordic countries, Benelux, Alpine Countries, Eastern Europe and Russia prior to the introduction of GSM. The GSM Association claims one of its around 680 operator-members has a license to operate a GSM 450 network in Tanzania. However, currently all active public operators in Tanzania use GSM 900/1800 MHz. There are no publicly advertised handsets for GSM-450 available.\n\nVery few NMT-450 networks remain in operation. Overall, where the 450 MHz NMT band has been licensed, the original analogue network has been closed, and sometimes replaced by CDMA. Some of the CDMA networks have since upgraded from CDMA to LTE (LTE band 31).\n\nToday, most telephones support multiple bands as used in different countries to facilitate roaming. These are typically referred to as multi-band phones. Dual-band phones can cover GSM networks in pairs such as 900 and 1800 MHz frequencies (Europe, Asia, Australia and Brazil) or 850 and 1900 (North America and Brazil). European tri-band phones typically cover the 900, 1800 and 1900 bands giving good coverage in Europe and allowing limited use in North America, while North American tri-band phones utilize 850, 1800 and 1900 for widespread North American service but limited worldwide use. A new addition has been the quad-band phone, also known as a World Phone, supporting at least all four major GSM bands, allowing for global use (excluding non-GSM countries such as Japan or South Korea).\n\nThere are also multi-mode phones which can operate on GSM as well as on other mobile phone systems using other technical standards or proprietary technologies. Often these phones use multiple frequency bands as well. For example, one version of the Nokia 6340i GAIT phone sold in North America can operate on GSM-1900, GSM-850 and legacy TDMA-1900, TDMA-800, and AMPS-800, making it both multi-mode and multi-band. As a more recent example the Apple iPhone 5 and iPhone 4S support quad-band GSM at 850/900/1800/1900 MHz, quad-band UMTS/HSDPA/HSUPA at 850/900/1900/2100 MHz, and dual-band CDMA EV-DO Rev. An at 800/1900 MHz, for a total of 'six' different frequencies (though at most four in a single mode). This allows the same handset to be sold for AT&T Mobility, Verizon, and Sprint in the U.S. as well as a broad range of GSM carriers worldwide such as Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile (Excluding-US), many of whom offer official unlocking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45677559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45677559", "title": "Garrett v A-G", "text": "Garrett v A-G\n\nGarrett v A-G [1997] 2 NZLR 332 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding claims in tort for misfeasance in public office\n\nJudith Garrett had lodged a complaint with the police that she had been raped by several off duty police officers.\n\nLater, when the police declined to prosecute the officers, Garrett sued the police for malfeasance for refusing to prosecute\n\nGarrett's claim was dismissed.\n"}
{"id": "22908772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22908772", "title": "Hague Agreement Concerning the International Deposit of Industrial Designs", "text": "Hague Agreement Concerning the International Deposit of Industrial Designs\n\nThe Hague Agreement Concerning the International Deposit of Industrial Designs, also known as the \"Hague system\" provides a mechanism for registering an industrial design in several countries by means of a single application, filed in one language, with one set of fees. The system is administered by WIPO.\n\nThe Hague Agreement consists of several separate treaties, the most important of which are: the Hague Agreement of 1925, the London Act of 2 June 1934, the Hague Act of 28 November 1960 (amended by the Stockholm Act), and the Geneva Act of 2 July 1999.\n\nThe original version of the Agreement (the 1925 Hague version) is no longer applied, since all states parties signed up to subsequent instruments. The 1934 London Act formally applied between a London act state that did not sign up to the Hague and/or Geneva Act in relation with other London act states until October 2016. Since 1 January 2010, however, the application of this act had already been frozen.\n\nCountries can become a party to the 1960 (Hague) Act, the 1999 (Geneva) Act, or both. If a country signs up to only one Act, then applicants from that country can only use the Hague system to obtain protection for their designs in other countries which are signed up to the same Act. For instance, because the Japan has only signed up to the 1999 (Geneva) Act, applicants which qualify to use the Hague system because their domicile is in the European Union can only get protection in countries which have also signed up to the 1999 Act or to both the 1999 and 1960 Acts.\n\nAll contracting parties to one or more of the instruments of the Hague Agreement are members of the Hague Union. A list is shown below:\n\n\nA list of the Contracting Parties is maintained by WIPO.\n\nApplicants can qualify to use the Hague system on the basis of any of the following criteria:\n\nAn applicant who does not qualify under one of these headings cannot use the Hague system. The Contracting Parties include not only individual countries, but also intergovernmental organisations such as the African Intellectual Property Organization (OAPI) and the European Union. This means an applicant domiciled in an EU member country that is not a Contracting Party, such as Austria or the United Kingdom, can nevertheless use the Hague system on the basis of his or her domicile in the European Union.\n\nAn application may be filed in English, French, or Spanish, at the choice of the applicant. The application must contain one or more views of the designs concerned and can include up to 100 different designs provided that the designs are all in the same class of the International Classification of Industrial Designs (Locarno Classification).\n\nThe application fee is composed of three types of fees: a basic fee, a publication fee, and a designation fee for each designated Contracting Party.\n\nThe application is examined for formal requirements by the International Bureau of WIPO, which provides the applicant with the opportunity to correct certain irregularities in the application. Once the formal requirements have been met, it is recorded in the International Register and details are published electronically in the International Designs Bulletin on the WIPO website.\n\nIf any designated Contracting Party considers that a design which has been registered for protection in that Contracting Party does not meet its domestic criteria for registrability (e.g. it finds that the design is not novel), it must notify the International Bureau that it refuses the registration for that Contracting Party. In every Contracting Party that does not issue such a refusal, the international registration takes effect and provides the same protection as if the design(s) had been registered under the domestic law of that Contracting Party.\n\nThe duration of an international registration is five years, extendable in further five-year periods up to the maximum duration permitted by each Contracting Party. For the 1934 London Act the maximum term was 15 years.\n\nRenewals are handled centrally by the International Bureau. The applicant pays a renewal fee and notifies the International Bureau of the countries for which the registration is to be renewed.\n\nThe agreement was concluded at the Dutch city The Hague.\n\n"}
{"id": "8216996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8216996", "title": "Homophobic propaganda", "text": "Homophobic propaganda\n\nHomophobic propaganda (or anti-gay propaganda) is propaganda based on homonegativity and homophobia towards homosexual and sometimes other non-heterosexual people. Such propaganda supports anti-gay prejudices and stereotypes, and promotes social stigmatization or discrimination. The term \"homophobic propaganda\" was used by the historian Stefan Micheler in his work \"Homophobic Propaganda and the Denunciation of Same-Sex-Desiring Men under National Socialism\", as well as other works treating the topic.\n\nIn some countries, some forms of homophobic propaganda are considered hate speech and are prohibited by law.\n\nPolitical attitudes towards homosexuals in Nazi Germany were based on the assumption that homosexuals were destroying the German nation as \"sexual degenerates\". Historian Erwin J. Haeberle, in his work \"Swastika, Pink Triangle and Yellow Star: The Destruction of Sexology and the Persecution of Homosexuals in Nazi Germany\", dates the first appearance of this political attitude to 14 May 1928.\n\nIn Russia, it is illegal to commit crimes against someone based on their social group, and LGBT people are considered a separate social group by law. Responsibility for it is established item 136 and item 282 of the criminal code of the Russian Federation. \n\nHowever, on June 30, 2013, President Vladimir Putin signed into law a bill banning the \"propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations\" among minors, and prohibits the equation of same-sex and straight marital relationships. \"Vice News\" claims that many LGBT rights groups have been transformed \"from being a stigmatized fringe group to full-blown enemies of the state\" in Russia following the introduction of this law, and that openly homophobic and neo-Nazi groups such as \"Occupy Paedophilia\" have been described by Russian authorities as \"civil movements fighting the sins of society\".\n\nIn 1981, Norway became the first country to establish a criminal penalty (a fine or imprisonment for up to two years) for public threats, defamations, expressions of hate, or agitation for discrimination towards the LGBT community.\n\nOn July 1, 1987 in the Netherlands joined the Dutch Penal code, which established punishment for public defamations on the basis of sexual orientation as fees or imprisonment for up to two years.\n\nIn 1989 in Ireland a resolution against anti-gay hate speech came into effect. It establishes penalty in the form of fees or imprisonment for up to two years for publication or distribution of materials which contain defamations, threats, hate speech or offenses for LGBT people. The law is occasionally taken into effect.\n\nOn 2 March 1993 in New South Wales, Australia, an amendment to the antidiscrimination law came into effect which prohibits public hate speech, despisement or ridiculing of homosexuals. A legal exclusion is any information which is distributed for educational, religious, scientific or social purposes.\n\nOn 10 December 1999 an analogous amendment was accepted by Tasmanian parliament, which permits no exclusion.\n\nIn February 2000 the South African Parliament enacted the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, which prohibits hate speech based on any of the constitutionally prohibited grounds, including sexual orientation. The definition of hate speech includes speech which is intended to \"promote or propagate hatred\".\n\nSection 28 of the Local Government Act 1988 added section 2A to the Local Government Act 1986, which forbade local authorities from being allowed to \"promote homosexuality\", or \"promote the teaching in any maintained school the acceptability of homosexuality as a pretended family relationship\". \n\nIt was repealed on 21 June 2000 in Scotland as one of the first pieces of legislation enacted by the new Scottish Parliament, and on 18 November 2003 in the rest of the United Kingdom by section 122 of the Local Government Act 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54433651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54433651", "title": "Hutchinson v. Proxmire", "text": "Hutchinson v. Proxmire\n\nHutchinson v. Proxmire, 443 U.S. 111 (1979), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that statements made by a Senator in newsletters and press releases were not protected by the Speech and debate clause.\n\nIn 1975, Senator William Proxmire created the \"Golden Fleece Award\" for governmental agencies that sponsored programs and research which Proxmire considered a waste of tax dollars. Proxmire awarded a Golden Fleece to federal agencies sponsoring the research of behavioral scientist Ronald Hutchinson. Proxmire discussed Hutchinson's work, which he called \"nonsense\", in detail on the Senate floor, in conferences with his staff, and in a newsletter sent to over 100,000 of his constituents. The newsletter, which did not use Hutchinson's name, reported that \"[t]he NSF, the Space Agency, and the Office of Naval Research won the 'Golden Fleece' for spending jointly $500,000 to determine why monkeys clench their jaws.\" Hutchinson sued Proxmire for libel, claiming that Proxmire's statements were defamatory and that he had been damaged by these libelous statements.\n\nHutchinson filed a lawsuit against Proxmire in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin claiming $8 million dollars in damages for defamation, malicious conduct or conduct with grossly negligent disregard for the truth, invasion of rights to privacy, and intentional infliction of emotional anguish. The district court considered the following questions:\n\nThe respondents moved for summary judgment. The district court held that the press release was privileged under the Speech and Debate Clause, writing the \"press release, in a constitutional sense, was no different than would have been a television or radio broadcast of his speech from the Senate floor.\" On the question of defamation, the district court considered whether Hutchinson was a public figure:\n\nGiven Dr. Hutchinson's long involvement with publicly funded research, his active solicitation of federal and state grants, the local press coverage of his research, and the public interest in the expenditure of public funds on the precise activities in which he voluntarily participated, the court concludes that he is a public figure for the purpose of this suit. As he acknowledged in his deposition, \"Certainly, any expenditure of public funds is a matter of public interest.\"\n\nFinding that Hutchinson was a public figure, the court moved on to the question of whether Proxmire had acted with actual malice. Finding that there was no \"genuine issue of material fact\" the court granted the motion for summary judgment in favor of Proxmire.\n\nUnited States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed, holding that Proxmire's statements in the press release and newsletters were protected by the Speech and Debate Clause. Though they found that comments made on television and during telephone calls were not protected by that Clause, the Court held that they were still protected by the First Amendment because the petitioner was a \"public figure\" and had not made a sufficient showing of \"actual malice.\"\n\nHaving granted certiorari the Supreme Court considered three questions:\n\nThe Supreme Court decided that statements made by Congressmen in press releases and newsletters are not protected by the Speech and Debate Clause. In the course of their analysis, they determined that, under the precedents of the court, a member of Congress may be held liable for republishing defamatory statements that were originally made during floor speeches. They also found that Hutchinson was not a public figure and that the \"actual malice\" standard established by \"New York Times Co. v. Sullivan\" for defamation claims brought by public figure did not apply to Hutchinson's case. Although Hutchinson did have access to the news media, the facts of the case do not indicate \"that he was a public figure prior to the controversy\" that resulted from the Golden Fleece award. The Court wrote: \nHis access, such as it was, came after the alleged libel, and was limited to responding to the announcement of the award. Those charged with alleged defamation cannot, by their own conduct, create their own defense by making the claimant a public figure. Nor is the concern about public expenditures sufficient to make petitioner a public figure, petitioner at no time having assumed any role of public prominence in the broad question of such concern\n\nThey reversed the lower court decision and remanded back to the appeals court for further proceedings.\n"}
{"id": "14912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14912", "title": "Incest", "text": "Incest\n\nIncest is human sexual activity between family members or close relatives. This typically includes sexual activity between people in consanguinity (blood relations), and sometimes those related by affinity (marriage or stepfamily), adoption, clan, or lineage.\n\nThe incest taboo is one of the most widespread of all cultural taboos, both in present and in past societies. Most modern societies have laws regarding incest or social restrictions on closely consanguineous marriages. In societies where it is illegal, consensual adult incest is seen by some as a victimless crime. Some cultures extend the incest taboo to relatives with no consanguinity such as milk-siblings, step-siblings, and adoptive siblings, albeit sometimes with less intensity. Third-degree relatives (such as half-aunt, half-nephew, first cousin) on average share 12.5% genes, and sexual relations between them are viewed differently in various cultures, from being discouraged to being socially acceptable. Children of incestuous relationships have been regarded as illegitimate, and are still so regarded in some societies today. In most cases, the parents did not have the option to marry to remove that status, as incestuous marriages were, and are, normally also prohibited.\n\nA common justification for prohibiting incest is avoiding inbreeding: a collection of genetic disorders suffered by the children of parents with a close genetic relationship. Such children are at greater risk for congenital disorders, death, and developmental and physical disability, and that risk is proportional to their parents' coefficient of relationship—a measure of how closely the parents are related genetically. But cultural anthropologists have noted that inbreeding avoidance cannot form the sole basis for the incest taboo because the boundaries of the incest prohibition vary widely between cultures, and not necessarily in ways that maximize the avoidance of inbreeding.\n\nIn some societies, such as those of Ancient Egypt, brother–sister, father–daughter, mother–son, cousin–cousin, aunt–nephew, uncle–niece, and other combinations of relations within a royal family were married as a means of perpetuating the royal lineage. Some societies, such as the Balinese and some Inuit tribes, have different views about what constitutes illegal and immoral incest. However, sexual relations with a first-degree relative (such as a parent or sibling) are almost universally forbidden.\n\nThe English word \"incest\" is derived from the Latin \"incestus\", which has a general meaning of \"impure, unchaste\".\nIt was introduced into Middle English, both in the generic Latin sense (preserved throughout the Middle English period) and in the narrow modern sense.\nThe derived adjective \"incestuous\" appears in the 16th century.\nBefore the Latin term came in, incest was known in Old English as \"sib-leger\" (from \"sibb\" 'kinship' + \"leger\" 'to lie') or \"mǣġhǣmed\" (from \"mǣġ\" 'kin, parent' + \"hǣmed\" 'sexual intercourse') but in time, both words fell out of use. Terms like \"incester\" and \"incestual\" have been used to describe those interested or involved in sexual relations with relatives among humans, while \"inbreeder\" has been used in relation to similar behavior among non-human animals or organisms.\n\nIn ancient China, first cousins with the same surnames (i.e., those born to the father's brothers) were not permitted to marry, while those with different surnames (i.e., maternal cousins and paternal cousins born to the father's sisters) were.\n\nSeveral of the Egyptian Pharaohs married their siblings and had several children with them. For example, Tutankhamun married his half-sister Ankhesenamun, and was himself the child of an incestuous union between Akhenaten and an unidentified sister-wife. It is now generally accepted that sibling marriages were widespread among all classes in Egypt during the Graeco-Roman period. Numerous papyri and the Roman census declarations attest to many husbands and wives being brother and sister, of the same father and mother. The most famous of these relationships were in the Ptolemaic royal family; Cleopatra VII was married to her younger brother, Ptolemy XIII, while her mother and father, Cleopatra V and Ptolemy XII, had also been brother and sister.\n\nThe fable of \"Oedipus\", with a theme of inadvertent incest between a mother and son, ends in disaster and shows ancient taboos against incest as Oedipus is punished for incestuous actions by blinding himself. In the \"sequel\" to Oedipus, \"Antigone\", his four children are also punished for their parents' incestuousness. Incest appears in the commonly accepted version of the birth of Adonis, when his mother, Myrrha has sex with her father Cinyras during a festival, disguised as a prostitute.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, Spartan King Leonidas I, hero of the legendary Battle of Thermopylae, was married to his niece Gorgo, daughter of his half-brother Cleomenes I. Greek law allowed marriage between a brother and sister if they had different mothers. For example, some accounts say that Elpinice was for a time married to her half-brother Cimon.\n\nIncest is mentioned and condemned in Virgil's \"Aeneid\" Book VI: \"hic thalamum invasit natae vetitosque hymenaeos;\" \"This one invaded a daughter's room and a forbidden sex act\".\nRoman civil law prohibited marriages within four degrees of consanguinity but had no degrees of affinity with regards to marriage. Roman civil laws prohibited any marriage between parents and children, either in the ascending or descending line \"ad infinitum\". Adoption was considered the same as affinity in that an adoptive father could not marry an unemancipated daughter or granddaughter even if the adoption had been dissolved. Incestuous unions were discouraged and considered \"nefas\" (against the laws of gods and man) in ancient Rome. In AD 295 incest was explicitly forbidden by an imperial edict, which divided the concept of \"incestus\" into two categories of unequal gravity: the \"incestus iuris gentium,\" which was applied to both Romans and non-Romans in the Empire, and the \"incestus iuris civilis,\" which concerned only Roman citizens. Therefore, for example, an Egyptian could marry an aunt, but a Roman could not. Despite the act of incest being unacceptable within the Roman Empire, Roman Emperor Caligula is rumored to have had sexual relationships with all three of his sisters (Julia Livilla, Drusilla, and Agrippina the Younger). Emperor Claudius, after executing his previous wife, married his brother's daughter Agrippina the Younger, and changed the law to allow an otherwise illegal union. The law prohibiting marrying a sister's daughter remained. The taboo against incest in Ancient Rome is demonstrated by the fact that politicians would use charges of incest (often false charges) as insults and means of political disenfranchisement.\n\nIn Norse mythology, there are themes of brother-sister marriage, a prominent example being between Njörðr and his unnamed sister (perhaps Nerthus), parents of Freyja and Freyr. Loki in turn also accuses Freyja and Freyr of having a sexual relationship.\n\nAccording to of the Hebrew Bible, the Patriarch Abraham married his half-sister Sarah. According to , Amram married his aunt Jochebed. According to 2 Samuel, Amnon, King David's son, raped his half-sister, Tamar.\n\nIn Genesis 19:30-38, living in an isolated area after the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, Lot's two daughters conspired to inebriate and seduce their father due to the lack of available partners to continue his line of descent. Because of intoxication, Lot \"perceived not\" when his firstborn, and the following night his younger daughter, lay with him. (Genesis 19:32-35)\n\nAccording to the Book of Jubilees, Cain married his sister Awan.\n\nMany European monarchs were related due to political marriages, sometimes resulting in distant cousins (and even first cousins) being married. This was especially true in the Habsburg, Hohenzollern, Savoy and Bourbon royal houses. However, relations between siblings, which may have been tolerated in other cultures, were considered abhorrent. For example, the accusation that Anne Boleyn and her brother George Boleyn had committed incest was one of the reasons that both siblings were executed in May 1536.\n\nIncestuous marriages were also seen in the royal houses of ancient Japan and Korea, Inca Peru, Ancient Hawaii, and, at times, Central Africa, Mexico, and Thailand. Like the pharaohs of ancient Egypt, the Inca rulers married their sisters. Huayna Capac, for instance, was the son of Topa Inca Yupanqui and the Inca's sister and wife.\n\nHalf-sibling marriages were found in ancient Japan such as the marriage of Emperor Bidatsu and his half-sister Empress Suiko. Japanese Prince Kinashi no Karu had sexual relationships with his full sister Princess Karu no Ōiratsume, although the action was regarded as foolish. In order to prevent the influence of the other families, a half-sister of Korean Goryeo Dynasty monarch Gwangjong became his wife in the 10th century. Her name was Daemok. Marriage with a family member not related by blood was also regarded as contravening morality and was therefore incest. One example of this is the 14th century Chunghye of Goryeo, who raped one of his deceased father's concubines, who was thus regarded to be his mother.\n\nIn the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, it is a widely practiced custom for men to marry their sisters' daughters.\n\nIncest between an adult and a person under the age of consent is considered a form of child sexual abuse that has been shown to be one of the most extreme forms of childhood abuse; it often results in serious and long-term psychological trauma, especially in the case of parental incest. Its prevalence is difficult to generalize, but research has estimated 10–15% of the general population as having at least one such sexual contact, with less than 2% involving intercourse or attempted intercourse. Among women, research has yielded estimates as high as 20%.\n\nFather-daughter incest was for many years the most commonly reported and studied form of incest. More recently, studies have suggested that sibling incest, particularly older brothers having sexual relations with younger siblings, is the most common form of incest, with some studies finding sibling incest occurring more frequently than other forms of incest. Some studies suggest that adolescent perpetrators of sibling abuse choose younger victims, abuse victims over a lengthier period, use violence more frequently and severely than adult perpetrators, and that sibling abuse has a higher rate of penetrative acts than father or stepfather incest, with father and older brother incest resulting in greater reported distress than stepfather incest.\n\nSex between an adult family member and a child is usually considered a form of child sexual abuse known as child incestuous abuse, and for many years has been the most reported form of incest. Father–daughter and stepfather–stepdaughter sex is the most commonly reported form of adult-child incest, with most of the remaining involving a mother or stepmother. Many studies found that stepfathers tend to be far more likely than biological fathers to engage in this form of incest. One study of adult women in San Francisco estimated that 17% of women were abused by stepfathers and 2% were abused by biological fathers. Father–son incest is reported less often, but it is not known how close the frequency is to heterosexual incest because it is likely more under-reported. Prevalence of incest between parents and their children is difficult to assess due to secrecy and privacy.\n\nIn a 1999 news story, \"BBC\" reported, \"Close-knit family life in India masks an alarming amount of sexual abuse of children and teenage girls by family members, a new report suggests. Delhi organisation RAHI said 76% of respondents to its survey had been abused when they were children—40% of those by a family member.\"\n\nAccording to the National Center for Victims of Crime a large proportion of rape committed in the United States is perpetrated by a family member:\nA study of victims of father–daughter incest in the 1970s showed that there were \"common features\" within families before the occurrence of incest: estrangement between the mother and the daughter, extreme paternal dominance, and reassignment of some of the mother's traditional major family responsibility to the daughter. Oldest and only daughters were more likely to be the victims of incest. It was also stated that the incest experience was psychologically harmful to the woman in later life, frequently leading to feelings of low self-esteem, very unhealthy sexual activity, contempt for other women, and other emotional problems.\n\nAdults who as children were incestuously victimized by adults often suffer from low self-esteem, difficulties in interpersonal relationships, and sexual dysfunction, and are at an extremely high risk of many mental disorders, including depression, anxiety disorders, phobic avoidance reactions, somatoform disorder, substance abuse, borderline personality disorder, and complex post-traumatic stress disorder. Research by Leslie Margolin indicates that mother-son incest does not trigger some innate biological response, but that the effects are more directly related to the symbolic meanings attributed to this act by the participants.\n\nThe Goler clan in Nova Scotia is a specific instance in which child sexual abuse in the form of forced adult/child and sibling/sibling incest took place over at least three generations. A number of Goler children were victims of sexual abuse at the hands of fathers, mothers, uncles, aunts, sisters, brothers, cousins, and each other. During interrogation by police, several of the adults openly admitted to engaging in many forms of sexual activity, up to and including full intercourse, multiple times with the children. Sixteen adults (both men and women) were charged with hundreds of allegations of incest and sexual abuse of children as young as five. In July 2012, twelve children were removed from the 'Colt' family (a pseudonym) in New South Wales, Australia, after the discovery of four generations of incest. Child protection workers and psychologists said interviews with the children indicated \"a virtual sexual free-for-all\".\n\nIn Japan, there is a popular misconception that mother-son incestuous contact is common, due to the manner in which it is depicted in the press and popular media. According to Hideo Tokuoka, \"When Americans think of incest, they think of fathers and daughters; in Japan one thinks of mothers and sons\" due to the extensive media coverage of mother-son incest there. Some western researchers assumed that mother-son incest is common in Japan, but research into victimization statistics from police and health-care systems discredits this; it shows that the vast majority of sexual abuse, including incest, in Japan is perpetrated by men against young girls.\n\nWhile incest between adults and children generally involves the adult as the perpetrator of abuse, there are rare instances of sons sexually assaulting their mothers. These sons are typically mid adolescent to young adult, and, unlike parent-initiated incest, the incidents involve some kind of physical force. Although the mothers may be accused of being seductive with their sons and inviting the sexual contact, this is contrary to evidence. Such accusations can parallel other forms of rape, where, due to victim blaming, a woman is accused of somehow being at fault for the rape. In some cases, mother-son incest is best classified as acquaintance rape of the mother by the adolescent son.\n\nChildhood sibling–sibling incest is considered to be widespread but rarely reported. Sibling–sibling incest becomes child-on-child sexual abuse when it occurs without consent, without equality, or as a result of coercion. In this form, it is believed to be the most common form of intrafamilial abuse. The most commonly reported form of abusive sibling incest is abuse of a younger sibling by an older sibling. A 2006 study showed a large portion of adults who experienced sibling incest abuse have \"distorted\" or \"disturbed\" beliefs (such as that the act was \"normal\") both about their own experience and the subject of sexual abuse in general.\n\nSibling abusive incest is most prevalent in families where one or both parents are often absent or emotionally unavailable, with the abusive siblings using incest as a way to assert their power over a weaker sibling. Absence of the father in particular has been found to be a significant element of most cases of sexual abuse of female children by a brother. The damaging effects on both childhood development and adult symptoms resulting from brother–sister sexual abuse are similar to the effects of father–daughter, including substance abuse, depression, suicidality, and eating disorders.\n\nSexual activity between adult close relatives is sometimes ascribed to genetic sexual attraction. This form of incest has not been widely reported, but evidence has indicated that this behavior does take place, possibly more often than many people realize. Internet chatrooms and topical websites exist that provide support for incestuous couples.\n\nProponents of incest between consenting adults draw clear boundaries between the behavior of consenting adults and rape, child molestation, and abusive incest. However, even consensual relationships such as these are still legally classified as incest, and criminalized in almost all jurisdictions . James Roffee, a senior lecturer in criminology at Monash University and former worker on legal responses to familial sexual activity in England and Wales, and Scotland, discussed how the European Convention on Human Rights deems all familial sexual acts to be criminal, even if all parties give their full consent and are knowledgeable to all possible consequences. He also argues that the use of particular language tools in the legislation manipulates the reader to deem all familial sexual activities as immoral and criminal, even if all parties are consenting adults.\n\nAccording to one incest participant who was quoted for an article in \"The Guardian\":\n\nIn \"Slate\", William Saletan drew a legal connection between gay sex and incest between consenting adults. As he described in his article, in 2003, U.S. Senator Rick Santorum commented on a pending U.S. Supreme Court case involving sodomy laws (primarily as a matter of constitutional rights to privacy and equal protection under the law):\n\nSaletan argued that, legally and morally, there is essentially no difference between the two, and went on to support incest between consenting adults being covered by a legal right to privacy. UCLA law professor Eugene Volokh has made similar arguments. In a more recent article, Saletan said that incest is wrong because it introduces the possibility of irreparably damaging family units by introducing \"a notoriously incendiary dynamic—sexual tension—into the mix\".\n\nIn the Netherlands, marrying one's nephew or niece is legal, but only with the explicit permission of the Dutch Government, due to the possible risk of genetic defects among the offspring. Nephew-niece marriages predominantly occur among foreign immigrants. In November 2008, the Christian Democratic (CDA) party's Scientific Institute announced that it wanted a ban on marriages between nephews and nieces.\n\nConsensual sex between adults (persons of 18 years and older) is always lawful in the Netherlands and Belgium, even among closely related family members. Sexual acts between an adult family member and a minor are illegal, though they are not classified as incest, but as abuse of the authority such an adult has over a minor, comparable to that of a teacher, coach or priest.\n\nIn Florida, consensual adult sexual intercourse with someone known to be your aunt, uncle, niece or nephew constitutes a felony of the third degree. Other states also commonly prohibit marriages between such kin. The legality of sex with a half-aunt or half-uncle varies state by state.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, incest includes only sexual intercourse with a parent, grandparent, child or sibling, but the more recently introduced offence of \"sex with an adult relative\" extends also as far as half-siblings, uncles, aunts, nephews and nieces. The term 'incest' however remains widely used in popular culture to describe any form of sexual activity with a relative.\nIn Canada marriage between uncles and nieces and between aunts and nephews is legal\n\nThe most public case of consensual adult sibling incest in recent years is the case of a brother-sister couple from Germany, Patrick Stübing and Susan Karolewski. Because of violent behavior on the part of his father, Patrick was taken in at the age of 3 by foster parents, who adopted him later. At the age of 23 he learned about his biological parents, contacted his mother, and met her and his then 16-year-old sister Susan for the first time. The now-adult Patrick moved in with his birth family shortly thereafter. After their mother died suddenly six months later, the siblings became intimately close, and had their first child together in 2001. By 2004, they had four children together: Eric, Sarah, Nancy, and Sofia. The public nature of their relationship, and the repeated prosecutions and even jail time they have served as a result, has caused some in Germany to question whether incest between consenting adults should be punished at all. An article about them in \"Der Spiegel\" states that the couple are happy together. According to court records, the first three children have mental and physical disabilities, and have been placed in foster care. In April 2012, at the European Court of Human Rights, Patrick Stübing lost his case that the conviction violated his right to a private and family life. On September 24, 2014, the German Ethics Council has recommended that the government abolish laws criminalizing incest between siblings, arguing that such bans impinge upon citizens.\n\nSome societies differentiate between full sibling and half sibling relations. In ancient societies, full sibling and half sibling marriages occurred.\n\nMarriages and sexual relationships between first cousins are stigmatized as incest in some cultures, but tolerated in much of the world. Currently, 24 US states prohibit marriages between first cousins, and another seven permit them only under special circumstances.\nThe United Kingdom permits both marriage and sexual relations between first cousins.\n\nIn some non-Western societies, marriages between close biological relatives account for 20% to 60% of all marriages.\n\nFirst- and second-cousin marriages are rare, accounting for less than 1% of marriages in Western Europe, North America and Oceania, while reaching 9% in South America, East Asia and South Europe and about 50% in regions of the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia. Communities such as the Dhond and the Bhittani of Pakistan clearly prefer marriages between cousins as belief they ensure purity of the descent line, provide intimate knowledge of the spouses, and ensure that patrimony will not pass into the hands of \"outsiders\". Cross-cousin marriages are preferred among the Yanomami of Brazilian Amazonia, among many other tribal societies identified by anthropologists.\n\nThere are some cultures in Asia which stigmatize cousin marriage, in some instances even marriages between second cousins or more remotely related people. This is notably true in the culture of Korea. In South Korea, before 1997, anyone with the same last name and clan were prohibited from marriage. In light of this law being held unconstitutional, South Korea now only prohibits up to third cousins (see Article 809 of the Korean Civil Code). Hmong culture prohibits the marriage of anyone with the same last name – to do so would result in being shunned by the entire community, and they are usually stripped of their last name. Some Hindu communities in India prohibit cousin marriages.\n\nIn a review of 48 studies on the children parented by cousins, the rate of birth defects was twice that of non-related couples: 4% for cousin couples as opposed to 2% for the general population.\n\nSome cultures include relatives by marriage in incest prohibitions; these relationships are called affinity rather than consanguinity. For example, the question of the legality and morality of a widower who wished to marry his deceased wife's sister was the subject of long and fierce debate in the United Kingdom in the 19th century, involving, among others, Matthew Boulton and Charles La Trobe. The marriages were entered into in Scotland and Switzerland respectively, where they were legal. In medieval Europe, standing as a godparent to a child also created a bond of affinity. But in other societies, a deceased spouse's sibling was considered the ideal person to marry. The Hebrew Bible forbids a man from marrying his brother's widow with the exception that, if his brother died childless, the man is instead required to marry his brother's widow so as to \"raise up seed to him\" (per ). Some societies have long practiced sororal polygyny, a form of polygamy in which a man marries multiple wives who are sisters to each other (though not closely related to him).\n\nIn Islamic law, marriage among close blood relations like parents, stepparent, parents in-law, siblings, stepsiblings, the children of siblings, aunts and uncles is prohibited, while first or second cousins may marry. Marrying the widow of a brother, or the sister of deceased or divorced wife is also allowed.\n\nOffspring of biologically related parents are subject to the possible impact of inbreeding. Such offspring have a higher possibility of congenital birth defects (see Coefficient of relationship) because it increases the proportion of zygotes that are homozygous for deleterious recessive alleles that produce such disorders (see Inbreeding depression). Because most such alleles are rare in populations, it is unlikely that two unrelated marriage partners will both be heterozygous carriers. However, because close relatives share a large fraction of their alleles, the probability that any such rare deleterious allele present in the common ancestor will be inherited from both related parents is increased dramatically with respect to non-inbred couples. Contrary to common belief, inbreeding does not in itself alter allele frequencies, but rather increases the relative proportion of homozygotes to heterozygotes. This has two contrary effects.\nThe closer two persons are related, the higher the zygosity, and thus the more severe the biological costs of inbreeding. This fact likely explains why inbreeding between close relatives, such as siblings, is less common than inbreeding between cousins.\n\nThere may also be other deleterious effects besides those caused by recessive diseases. Thus, similar immune systems may be more vulnerable to infectious diseases (see Major histocompatibility complex and sexual selection).\n\nA 1994 study found a mean excess mortality with inbreeding among first cousins of 4.4%. Children of parent-child or sibling-sibling unions are at increased risk compared to cousin-cousin unions. Studies suggest that 20-36% of these children will die or have major disability due to the inbreeding. A study of 29 offspring resulting from brother-sister or father-daughter incest found that 20 had congenital abnormalities, including four directly attributable to autosomal recessive alleles.\n\nLaws regarding sexual activity between close relatives vary considerably between jurisdictions, and depend on the type of sexual activity and the nature of the family relationship of the parties involved, as well as the age and sex of the parties. Prohibition of incest laws may extend to restrictions on marriage rights, which also vary between jurisdictions. Most jurisdictions prohibit parent-child and sibling marriages, while others also prohibit first-cousin and uncle-niece and aunt-nephew marriages. In most places, incest is illegal, regardless of the ages of the two partners. In other countries, incestuous relationships between consenting adults (with the age varying by location) are permitted, including in the Netherlands, France, Slovenia and Spain. Sweden is the only country that allows marriage between half-siblings and they must seek government counseling before marriage.\n\nWhile the legality of consensual incest varies by country, sexual assault committed against a relative is usually seen as a very serious crime. In some legal systems, the fact of a perpetrator being a close relative to the victim constitutes an aggravating circumstance in the case of sexual crimes such as rape and sexual conduct with a minor – this is the case in Romania.\n\nAccording to the Torah, per Leviticus 18, \"the children of Israel\"—Israelite men and women alike—are forbidden from sexual relations between people who are \"near of kin\" (cf. verse 6), who are defined as:\n\n\nAnd Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the word of the LORD, saying: 'The tribe of the sons of Joseph speaketh right. This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying: Let them be married to whom they think best; only into the family of the tribe of their father shall they be married. So shall no inheritance of the children of Israel remove from tribe to tribe; for the children of Israel shall cleave every one to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers. And every daughter, that possesseth an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may possess every man the inheritance of his fathers. So shall no inheritance remove from one tribe to another tribe; for the tribes of the children of Israel shall cleave each one to its own inheritance.' Even as the LORD commanded Moses, so did the daughters of Zelophehad. For Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married unto their father's brothers' sons.\n\nIncestuous relationships are considered so severe among \"chillulim HaShem\", acts which bring shame to the name of God, as to be, along with the other forbidden relationships that are mentioned in Leviticus 18, punishable by death as specified in Leviticus 20.\n\nIn the 4th century BCE, the Soferim (\"scribes\") declared that there were relationships within which marriage constituted incest, in addition to those mentioned by the Torah. These additional relationships were termed \"seconds\" (Hebrew: \"sheniyyot\"), and included the wives of a man's grandfather and grandson. The classical rabbis prohibited marriage between a man and any of these \"seconds\" of his, on the basis that doing so would act as a \"safeguard\" against infringing the biblical incest rules, although there was inconclusive debate about exactly what the limits should be for the definition of \"seconds\".\n\nMarriages that are forbidden in the Torah (with the exception of uncle-niece marriages) were regarded by the rabbis of the Middle Ages as invalid – as if they had never occurred; any children born to such a couple were regarded as bastards under Jewish law, and the relatives of the spouse were not regarded as forbidden relations for a further marriage. On the other hand, those relationships which were prohibited due to qualifying as \"seconds\", and so forth, were regarded as wicked, but still valid; while they might have pressured such a couple to divorce, any children of the union were still seen as legitimate.\n\nThe Catholic Church does not generally permit the marriage if a doubt exists on whether the potential spouses are related by blood relations in any degree of the direct line or in the second degree of the collateral line.\n\nDefinitions of incest varied throughout history. The Fourth Lateran Council held in 1215 attempted to codify that marriage was forbidden up to and including third cousins, though permissible beyond this for fourth cousins, third cousins once removed, etc.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, marriages are banned between second cousins or closer and between second uncles / aunts and second nieces / nephews (between first cousins once removed) or closer. Marrying one's godparent or deceased spouse's sibling is also prohibited, although marrying one's stepchild is not – e.g. Vyacheslav Ivanov exercised his right to marry his stepdaughter after her mother's (his first wife's) death.\n\nThe Book of Common Prayer of the Anglican Communion allows marriages up to and including first cousins.\n\nIn Augustine of Hippo's book \"The City of God\", a 5th Century AD book of Christian philosophy, he claimed that the children of Adam and Eve must have married each other in order to produce offspring.\n\nThe Quran gives specific rules regarding incest, which prohibit a man from marrying or having sexual relationships with:\n\nCousin marriage finds support in Islamic scriptures and is widespread in the Middle East.\n\nAlthough Islam allows cousin marriage, there are Hadiths attributed to Muhammad calling for distance from the marriage of relatives.\n\nIn Ancient Persia, incest between cousins is a blessed virtue although in some sources incest is believed to be related to that of parent-child or brothers-sisters. Under Zoroastrianism both royalty, priestly and commoners practiced incest. This tradition was called Xwedodah (). The tradition was considered so sacred, that the bodily fluids produced by an incestuous couple were thought to have curative powers. For instance, the Vendidad advised corpse-bearers to purify themselves with a mixture of urine of a married incestuous couple. Friedrich Nietzsche, in his book \"The Birth of Tragedy\", cited that among Zoroastrians a wise priest is born only by Xvaetvadatha. \n\nTo what extent Xvaetvadatha was practiced in Sasanian Iran and before, especially outside the royal and noble families (“dynastic incest”) and, perhaps, the clergy, and whether practices ascribed to them can be assumed to be characteristic of the general population is not clear. Evidence from Dura-Europos, however, combined with that of the Jewish and Christian sources citing actual cases under the Sasanians, strengthen the evidence of the Zoroastrian texts. In the post-Sasanian Zoroastrian literature, Xvaetvadatha is said to refer to marriages between cousins which have always been relatively common. When Anquetil Duperron visited the Parsis in the mid-18th century, he was told the term referred to marriage with cousins, and according to James Darmesteter, it was rare for a Parsi to marry out of the family; marriage between cousins (a marriage made in heaven) was both practical and normal, while other incestuous marriages were taboo and illegal.\n\nRigveda regard incest to be \"evil\". Hinduism speaks of incest in abhorrent terms. Hindus believe there are both karmic and practical bad effects of incest and thus practice strict rules of both endogamy and exogamy, in relation to the family tree (\"gotra\") or bloodline (\"Pravara\").\nMarriage within the \"gotra\" (\"swagotra\" marriages) are banned under the rule of exogamy in the traditional matrimonial system. People within the \"gotra\" are regarded as kin and marrying such a person would be thought of as incest. Marriage with paternal cousins (a form of parallel-cousin relationship) is strictly prohibited. \n\nAlthough generally marriages between persons having the same \"gotra\" are prohibited, how this is defined may vary regionally.\nDepending on culture and caste of the population in the region, marriage may be restricted up to seven generations of \"gotra\" of father, mother, and grandmother. In a few rural areas, marriage is banned within same local community is only allowed with those from outside of the community, as they consider a small village to be like brothers and sisters of one large family. These rules are strictly enforced and a couple breaking them is violently punished sometimes. The seven-generation prohibition in some areas is only applied to paternal descent, with \"gotra\" is transferred down the male lineage; in these areas, the \"gotra\" of a female changes upon marriage (i.e., upon marriage a woman would belong to her husband's lineage).\n\nIn the \"Mahabharata\", one of the two great Hindu Epics, Arjuna took as his fourth wife his first and cross cousin Subhadra, the sister of Krishna. Arjuna had gone into exile alone after having disturbed Yudhishthira and Draupadi in their private quarters. It was during the last part of his exile, while staying at the Dvaraka residence of his cousins, that he fell in love with Subhadra. While eating at the home of Balarama, Arjuna was struck with Subhadra's beauty and decided he would obtain her as his wife. Subhadra and Arjuna's son was the tragic hero Abhimanyu. According to Andhra Pradesh oral tradition, Abhimanyu himself married his first cross cousin Shashirekha, the daughter of Subhadra's brother Balarama. Cross-cousin marriages are evident from Arjuna's marriage with Subhadra, Pradyumna's (Eldest son of Krishna) marriage with Rukmi's (brother of Rukmini) daughter. Also, Krishna married his cross cousin Mitravinda (daughter of Vasudeva's sister Rajadhi who was queen of Avanti) and Bhadra (daughter of Vasudeva's sister Shrutakirti who was the queen of Kekaya Kingdom.)\n\nMany mammal species, including humanity's closest primate relatives, tend to avoid mating with close relatives, especially if there are alternative partners available. However, some chimpanzees have been recorded attempting to mate with their mothers. Male rats have been recorded engaging in mating with their sisters, but they tend to prefer non-related females over their sisters.\n\nLivestock breeders often practice controlled breeding to eliminate undesirable characteristics within a population, which is also coupled with culling of what is considered unfit offspring, especially when trying to establish a new and desirable trait in the stock.\n\nBed bugs: North Carolina State University found that bed bugs, in contrast to most other insects, tolerate incest and are able to genetically withstand the effects of inbreeding quite well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23177005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23177005", "title": "Judicial review in Malaysia", "text": "Judicial review in Malaysia\n\nAlthough Malaysia inherited the political system of British India based on the Westminster system, which made no provision for judicial review, the Federal Constitution of Malaysia instituted a system based on that of India which was in turn influenced by other constitutions including that of the United States. Judges are empowered to declare laws or executive actions \"ultra vires\" if they clashed with the Constitution and/or the parent legislation. However, this power was curbed after the 1988 Malaysian constitutional crisis by then Prime Minister Mahathir bin Mohamad through amendments to the Federal Constitution. A particularly significant amendment was the removal of the judicial power and subjecting the judiciary to such jurisdiction and powers as may be conferred by or under federal law. The merits of detentions made under the Internal Security Act are also not subject to judicial review, but the procedures are.\n"}
{"id": "519158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519158", "title": "LGBT adoption", "text": "LGBT adoption\n\nLGBT adoption is the adoption of children by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people. This may be in the form of a joint adoption by a same-sex couple, adoption by one partner of a same-sex couple of the other's biological child (step-child adoption) and adoption by a single LGBT person. Joint adoption by same-sex couples is legal in 27 countries and in some sub-national territories. Furthermore, 5 countries have legalized some form of step-child adoption. Given that constitutions and statutes usually do not address the adoption rights of LGBT persons, judicial decisions often determine whether they can serve as parents either individually or as couples.\n\nSome scientific research indicates that the children of same-sex couples fare just as well or even better than the children of opposite-sex couples.\n\nThe existing body of research on outcomes for children with LGBT parents includes limited studies that consider the specific case of adoption. Moreover, where studies do mention adoption they often fail to distinguish between outcomes for unrelated children versus those in their original family or step-families, causing research on the more general case of LGBT parenting to be used to counter the claims of LGBT-adoption opponents. One study has addressed the question directly, evaluating the outcomes of adoptees less than 3-years old who had been placed in one of 56 lesbian and gay households since infancy. Despite the small sample, and the fact that the children have yet to become aware of their adoption status or the dynamics of gender development, the study found no significant associations between parental sexual orientation and child adjustment!\n\nAdoption of children by LGBT people is an issue of active debate. In the United States, for example, legislation to stop the practice has been introduced in many jurisdictions; such efforts have largely been defeated. Prior to 1973, state courts commonly barred gay and lesbian individuals from holding a parenting role, especially through adoption.\n\nThere is agreement between the debating parties, however, that the welfare of children alone should dictate policy. Supporters of LGBT adoption suggest that many children are in need of homes and claim that since parenting ability is unrelated to sexual orientation, the law should allow them to adopt children. Opponents, on the other hand, suggest that the alleged greater prevalence of depression, drug use, promiscuity and suicide among homosexuals (and alleged greater prevalence of domestic violence) might affect children or that the absence of male and female role models during a child's development could cause maladjustment. Catholic Answers, a Catholic religious group, in its 2004 report on gay marriage addressed parenting by homosexual partners via adoption or artificial insemination. It pointed to studies finding higher than average abuse rates among heterosexual stepparent families compared with same-sex parents. The American Psychological Association notes that an ongoing longitudinal study found that none of the lesbian mothers had abused their children. It states that fears of a heightened risk of sexual abuse by gay parents are not supported by research.\n\nSeveral professional organizations have made statements in defense of adoption by same-sex couples. The American Psychological Association has supported adoption by same-sex couples, citing social prejudice as harming the psychological health of lesbians and gays while noting there is no evidence that their parenting causes harm. The American Medical Association has issued a similar position supporting second parent adoption by same-sex partner, stating that lack of formal recognition can cause health-care disparities for children of same-sex parents.\n\nBritain's last Catholic adoption society announced that it would stop finding homes for children if forced by legislation to place children with same-sex couples. The Muslim Council of Britain also sided with Catholic adoption agencies on this issue. Catholic Charities of Boston also ended its founding mission of adoption work rather than comply with Massachusetts state law requiring non-discrimination by adoption agencies.\n\nThe following arguments are made in support of adoption by LGBT parents:\n\nA 2006 poll by the Pew Research Center found a close divide on gay adoption among the United States public, while a 2007 poll by CNN and Opinion Research Corp. said 57% of respondents felt gays should have the right to adopt and 40% said they should not. In the United Kingdom in 2007, 64% of people said they thought gay couples should be allowed to adopt and 32% said they should not. 55% of respondents thought that male couples should be able to adopt and 59% of people thought that lesbian couples should be able to adopt. In Brazil, a 2010 poll asked, \"Do you support or oppose allowing gay couples to adopt children?\" The poll found that 51% opposed adoption by same-sex couples and 39% supported it. An opinion poll conducted in late 2006 at the request of the European Commission indicated that Polish public opinion was generally opposed to both same-sex marriage and to adoption by gay couples. The Eurobarometer 66 poll found that 74% of Poles were opposed to same-sex marriage and 89% opposed adoption by same-sex couples.\n\n, there are national debates on LGBT parenthood in the following countries:\n\nFull joint adoption by same-sex couples is currently legal in 26 countries:\n\nFull joint adoption by same-sex couples is currently legal in the following subnational jurisdictions:\n\nThe following countries permit \"step-child adoption\" in which the partner in a relationship can adopt the natural and the adopted child of his or her partner:\n\n\nSince 2014 in Croatia, a similar institution called partner-guardianship exists. It allows a life partner who is not a biological parent of their partner's child or children to gain parental responsibilities on a temporary or permanent basis.\n\nSouth Africa is the only African country to allow joint adoption by same-sex couples. The 2002 decision of the Constitutional Court in the case of \"Du Toit v Minister of Welfare and Population Development\" amended the Child Care Act, 1983 to allow both joint adoption and stepparent adoption by \"permanent same-sex life partners\". The Child Care Act has since been replaced by the Children's Act, 2005, which allows joint adoption by \"partners in a permanent domestic life-partnership\", whether same- or opposite-sex, and stepparent adoption by a person who is the \"permanent domestic life-partner\" of the child's current parent. Same-sex marriage has been legal since 2006, and is equivalent to opposite-sex marriage for all purposes, including adoption.\n\nIn Chile, same-sex couples are allowed to apply to adopt a child. If applicants are approved as suitable to adopt, legally only one of them would be the legal parent of the child. A 2017 survey, shows that 45% of Chileans support same sex adoption, whilst 50% are opposed.\n\nOn 4 November 2015, in a 6-2 Constitutional Court ruling, Colombia decided to allow adoption by LGBT peoples. The ruling came before same-sex marriage became legal in the country on 28 April 2016.\n\nIn Mexico City, the Legislative Assembly of the Federal District passed legislation on 21 December 2009 enabling same-sex couples to adopt children. Eight days later, Head of Government (\"Mayor\") Marcelo Ebrard signed the bill into law, which officially took effect on 4 March 2010.\n\nOn 24 November 2011, the Coahuila Supreme Court struck down the state's law barring same-sex couples from adopting, urging the state's legislature to amend the adoption law as soon as possible. On 12 February 2014, the state's congress overwhelmingly approved the measure more than two years following the supreme court decision.\n\nOn 3 February 2017 the SCJN emitted tesis 08/2017 in which it is stated that the family of the LGBT community doesn't end with a couple, but that it also extends onto the right to have and raise children. Therefore, LGBT couples wishing to form a family and adopt children will be legally protected and can't be limited by any governmental entity.\n\nA government-sponspored adoption law in Uruguay allowing LGBT adoption was approved by the lower house on 28 August 2009, and by the Senate on 9 September 2009. In October 2009, the law was signed by President and took effect. According to Equipos Mori Poll's, 53% of Uruguayans are opposed to same sex adoption against 39% that support it. Interconsult's Poll made in 2008 says that 49% are opposed to same sex adoption against 35% that support it.\n\nLGBT rights for adoption of children in Asia are almost inexistent, except in Israel. Some Asian countries still criminalise same-sex activities, do not have anti-discrimination laws, which are an obstacle from legislating for LGBT adoption.\n\nA January 2005 ruling of the Israeli Supreme Court allowed stepchild adoptions for same-sex couples. Israel previously allowed limited co-guardianship rights for non-biological parents. In February 2008, a court in Israel ruled that same-sex couples were now permitted to adopt a child regardless of whether the child is biologically related or not to either parent. This marked a watershed in granting equal rights to all gay people in Israel.\n\nIn February 2006, France's Court of Cassation ruled that both partners in a same-sex relationship can have parental rights over one partner's biological child. The result came from a case where a woman tried to give parental rights of her two daughters to her partner, with whom she was in a civil union. In the case of adoption, however, in February 2007, the same court ruled against a lesbian couple where one partner tried to adopt the child of the other partner. The court stated that the woman's partner cannot be recognized unless the mother withdrew her own parental rights. On 17 May 2013, French President François Hollande signed into law the bill that opened marriage and adoption rights linked to it for same sex couples.\n\nIn 1998, a nursery school teacher from Lons-le-Saunier, living as a couple with another woman, had applied for an authorization to adopt a child from the \"département\" (local government) of Jura. The adoption board recommended against the authorization because the child would lack a paternal reference, and thus the president of the \"département\" ruled against the authorization. The case was appealed before the administrative courts and ended before the Council of State, acting as supreme administrative court, which ruled against the woman. The European Court of Human Rights concluded that these actions and this ruling were a violation of Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights taken in conjunction with Article 8.\n\nOn 2 June 2006, the Icelandic Parliament unanimously passed a proposal accepting adoption, parenting and assisted insemination treatment for same-sex couples on the same basis as heterosexual couples. The law went into effect on 27 June 2006.\n\nIn Bulgaria, according to the Ministry of Justice the laws regarding adoption \"lack a norm, concerning the sexual orientation of the individuals\". Therefore, a single gay person or same-sex couples may adopt.\n\nOn 17 May 2013, the Portuguese parliament approved a bill in first reading allowing \"co-adoption\" of the biological or adopted child of the same-sex spouse or partner, where that spouse or partner is the only legally recognized parent of the child (e.g. the mother with the natural father not being registered). However, in October 2013 members of parliament opposed to the bill proposed a referendum on the issue and killed a motion to have the second vote in the plenary; the motion on the possible referendum was then considered, but the Constitutional Court declared it unconstitutional. On 14 March 2014, the original bill was rejected in second reading. On 20 November 2015, 5 proposals from several left-wing parties were voted favourably by the new parliament as result of 4 October General Elections.\n\nIn July 2014 through Life Partnership Act Croatia recognized an institution similar to step-child adoption called partner-guardian. A partner who is not a biological parent of a child can share parental responsibilities with a biological parent or parents if they agree to it, or if the court decides it is in the best interest of a child. Additionally, a biological parent or parents can temporarily give a partner who is not a biological parent full parental responsibilities. A partner who is not a biological parent can also gain permanent parental responsibilities through an institution of partner-guardian if both biological parents of a child have died, or exceptionally if a second biological parent of a child is unknown, and if the court decides it is in the best interest of a child.\n\nIn January 2015, the Constitutional Court of Austria found the existing laws on adoption to be unconstitutional and ordered the laws to be changed by 31 December 2015 to allow joint adoption by same-sex couples in Austria.\n\nOn 6 April 2015, the Children and Family Relationships Bill 2015 passed by Parliament in March 2015 which extends full adoption rights to cohabiting couples and those in civil partnerships was promulgated by the President of Ireland. The law went into effect a year later on 6 April 2016.\n\nOn 20 November 2015 the Portuguese Parliament approved; by 141 votes against 87 with 2 abstentions; a diploma presented by all the parties (except the right-wing PàF) to allow same-sex adoption. On 26 January 2016, the conservative Portuguese President Anibal Cavaco Silva vetoed the bill and a week later the Portuguese Parliament overridden the veto. The law went into effect on 1 March 2016.\n\nOn 22 June 2016 the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation upheld a lower court's decision to approve a request for a lesbian to adopt her partner's daughter. Prosecutors had appealed against the decision by the Rome court of appeal. Decisions by the supreme court set a precedent.\n\nIn Australia, same-sex adoption is legal in all states and territories since April 2018.\n\nThe Marriage (Definition of Marriage) Amendment Act 2013, which came into force on 19 August 2013, allowed same-sex marriage and permitted married same-sex couples to jointly adopt children. Previously, an LGBT individual was able to adopt children, but same-sex couples could not adopt jointly.\n\nCurrently there are no specific barriers preventing an LGBT individual from adopting children, except that a male individual cannot adopt a female child. The same-sex marriage law became effective from 19 August 2013, and since then married same-sex couples were able to adopt children jointly. Unmarried couples of any sex and couples in a civil union can now jointly adopt children, under a New Zealand High Court ruling in December 2015. The ban breached the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990. The minimum age to adopt in New Zealand is 20 years for a related child, and 25 years or the child's age plus 20 years (whichever is greater) for an unrelated child.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2054766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2054766", "title": "Latent defect", "text": "Latent defect\n\nIn the law of the sale of property (both real estate and personal property or chattels) a latent defect is a fault in the property that could not have been discovered by a reasonably thorough inspection before the sale.\n\nThe general law of the sale of property is caveat emptor (let the buyer beware) and buyers are under a general duty to inspect their purchase before taking possession. However, it is understood at law that inspection is often not sufficient to detect certain deficiencies in the product that can only be discovered through destructive testing or other means that a seller could not reasonably be expected to allow under normal conditions. For example, wood beams and interior brickwork often cannot be fully assessed without destructive testing, and it would be unreasonable for the seller to allow the buyer to destroy part of the property in order to discover such defects.\n\nAs such, the law expects that buyers will protect themselves in the sales contract against defects they cannot possibly be expected to assess prior to purchase. As such, the term \"latent defect\" is often used as part of the guarantee clauses in a sales contract so that the buyer can recover damages from the seller if defects turn up in the property after the sale. For example, the seller may be required to pay for repairs of any such damage.\n\nIn Common Law, there is no automatic right for a buyer to claim against a seller for such latent defects when they are discovered, absent an agreement in contract. Civil Law in some jurisdictions (Quebec, Canada) does provide for such an automatic right unless a property is sold \"without guarantee\" as to its quality. However, if a latent defect is discovered, there is often a presumption against the seller when a claim is made in misrepresentation that the seller knew about the latent defect. As such, the seller is required to show that he or she could not possibly have known of the defect, rather than the buyer having to show that the seller did know about the defect. However, if it can be shown the seller could not have known about the defect (and was not wilfully blind to the possibility) then the buyer's claim will not succeed.\n\nHowever, when the defect could have been discovered by the buyer by a thorough inspection (a \"patent defect\"), the buyer cannot possibly succeed in a claim against the seller unless the seller actively took steps to hide the defect from a normal inspection.\n\nIn all cases, where a seller actively misrepresents the condition of the property, such as by taking steps to make an inspection impossible or by lying about problems when directly asked, the buyer will almost always succeed unless it can be shown that the buyer was independently aware of the defect and completed the transaction nevertheless.\n\nIn construction contracting a latent defect is defined as a defect which exists at the time of acceptance but cannot be discovered by a reasonable inspection.\n"}
{"id": "41224297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41224297", "title": "Leximetrics", "text": "Leximetrics\n\nLeximetrics is a field which attempts to rank the strength or weaknesses of laws, by assigning a numerical value to each type of law in a particular field. The law's numbers are then used to compare the efficacy of different legal systems, and how these numbers correlate with particular goals such as economic growth or employment.\n\nThe term leximetrics was first coined by Robert Cooter and Tom Ginsburg, drawing on their comparative law studies. The first attempt to assign numerical values to rules in different legal systems, to evaluate their perceived strength or weakness, was made by a group of finance economists called Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez de Silanes, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert W. Vishny. In work that was commissioned by the World Bank, and with views consistent with the Washington Consensus, they collated information on a select number of shareholder rights. They believed they could show that the protection of shareholder rights correlated with, and probably caused, more efficient market economies. They also argued that, according to their legal origins theory, common law systems were better at protecting shareholder rights than civil law jurisdictions, on the whole. With other people involved later, these studies were extended to labour law, and constitutional law protections for property, and other issues which concerned the researchers.\n\nLa Porta, Lopez, Shleifer and Vishny's studies, although picked up by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, were widely criticised for failing to disclose their methodology adequately, misunderstanding the law in multiple jurisdictions, oversimplifying complex legal problems, and bias. Before long other researchers, such as those at the Cambridge Judge Business School, Centre for Business Research, led by Simon Deakin, began undertaking parallel studies. These sought to do the same work but more accurately, and usually came to the opposite conclusions. For example, it was found that when measured more accurately, and over time, common law countries were not outperformed by civil law countries in various shareholders protection measures, and that labour law was in fact positive for economic development in most cases.\n\nThe field of work has continued to attract substantial academic interest.\n\nA common criticism of leximetrics, particularly among the legal profession, is that it fails to capture the complexity of legal issues, and by reducing the \"strength\" of laws to a numerical value, may well miss the practical effects of the law. For example, as the corporate law Professor John C. Coffee has put it, put it, public enforcement of directors' duties remains necessary despite the work carried out by Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez de Silanes, Andrei Shleifer and Robert W. Vishny, because it is more effective. \"This is a description,\" says Coffee, \"quite at odds with LLS and V, who favor private enforcement (but do not understand it)...\"\n\nLeximetric studies usually involve researchers with limited amounts of time to spend on each country's law that they examine, the researchers may or may not be lawyers, and may or may not be acquainted with the dozens of jurisdictions they study, even if the person leading the research is themselves a highly qualified lawyer. Even then, the assessment of whether a law is strong or not depends on an independent judgement. Numbers tend to indicate an objective quality, when in fact they are all subjective assessments of the relative efficacy of a law, and open to reinterpretation. Once the aggregated data and number have been determined by the researcher, and these are correlated with data on a country's economic development, it is then also criticised that no normative conclusions can be drawn. Correlations do not mean causation, and even very close correlations in the understanding of econometrics is not the same as causation. Regression analysis which shows, for example, a country raising its minimum wage has coincided exactly with a period of economic growth would neither demonstrate that a minimum wage ought to be raised in a different country.\n\nDefenders of the leximetrics methodology contend that although there may be many qualifications and limitations, the work can nevertheless be useful despite its abstracted nature. It is preferable to have some information and basis for comparison rather than none at all, and the only question is whether or not the work is carried out accurately or with integrity. The more transparent the researchers' choices are, the better the work is likely to be. As more data is released, other researchers can build on and perfect the work which is done.\n\n"}
{"id": "4109448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109448", "title": "List of law journals", "text": "List of law journals\n\nThis list of law journals includes periodical academic publications on law. The law reviews are grouped by jurisdiction or country and then into subject areas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34420614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34420614", "title": "Louis Franklin Bache", "text": "Louis Franklin Bache\n\nLouis Franklin Bache (7 October 1779 – 4 October 1818) was the son of Richard Bache and Sarah Franklin Bache, the daughter of the American statesman Benjamin Franklin and his wife Deborah Read. Bache served as a lieutenant colonel in the Pennsylvania State Militia during the War of 1812 between the United States and Great Britain.\n\nBache was the commander of a detachment of 351 men in the Pennsylvania State Militia Volunteers which was assigned by Pennsylvania Governor Simon Snyder to defend the City of Philadelphia against the British in the War of 1812. In October 1814, Lt. Col. Bache refused to submit to federal military takeover of his Pennsylvania State Militia detachment because his soldiers originally joined the state militia pursuant to a later-disputed agreement with U.S. Brigadier General Joseph Bloomfield that Bache's soldiers would always serve under their state (and not federal) militia officers.\n\nStanding firm on principle, Bache and his five subordinate officers were arrested. Bache was court-martialed and was dismissed from U.S. military service. The military court decided not to punish Bache further because the court believed Bache's closing arguments...that he acted in good faith based upon Governor Snyder's orders, his motives were pure, and that trust was placed in him by his soldiers and the soldiers' parents who allowed their sons to volunteer only under the command of trusted state militia officers. The Bache court-martial case and the related U.S. Supreme Court case of \"United States v. Peters\" has been the subject of historical discussion regarding federal-state relations and balance of power.\n\nBache married Margaret Riley (1781–1806) in 1802. They had two children together:\n"}
{"id": "35054909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35054909", "title": "METI Handmade School", "text": "METI Handmade School\n\nThe METI Handmade School, a primary school for 168 students located in Rudrapur in Dinajpur district of Bangladesh, was built with the assistance of local craftsmen making use of traditional materials, primarily mud and bamboo. An example of sustainable architecture, the project received the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 2007, not only for its simple, humane approach and beauty but also for the level of cooperation achieved between architects, craftsmen, clients and users.\n\nIn 1997, Anna Heringer from Bavaria in southern Germany, visited Bangladesh to work as a volunteer with the Bangladeshi NGO, Dipshikha, which assists marginalized communities in areas such as education, agriculture and skills development. While studying architecture in Linz, Austria, she returned to Rudrapur with three other students. As part of their university research, they made a proposal under Dipshikha's programme for Modern Education and Training (METI). In 2004, after graduating with a thesis titled \"School: handmade in Bangladesh\", Anna Heringer again visited the village, maintaining the contacts she had enjoyed over the years. Unable to find suitable local expertise, Paul Cherwatigga of Dipshikha appointed her as architect for a project to build new classrooms for the village school with a mandate to make use of local materials. Heringer began her involvement by coordinating fund-raising with the German NGO, Shanti, which had initially introduced her to Dipshikha, successfully raising the USD 35,000 needed for the project. While the original requirement had simply been to build additional classrooms for the Dipshikha school, Cherwatigga and Heringer persuaded those responsible to use local materials rather than adopting the usual concrete construction.\n\nCommissioned in January 2004, design work started in March 2004 and was approved in August 2005. The construction was completed over a period of four months from September 2005 to December 2005.\n\nAnna Heringer worked together with her colleague Eike Roswag, developing a design based on regional construction methods and local materials but introducing new approaches for efficiency and structural integrity. As a result of improvements to the bamboo structures and lashing, it was possible to add a second storey to the building. Brick foundations were used to minimize the effects of moisture on the earthen walls. The bricks were made by local craftsmen while the remaining construction work was a collaborative effort by the architects, teachers, students and locals. In addition to the classrooms required, there are also spaces where the children can interact. The classrooms on the ground floor are enclosed by a mud wall while those on the first floor have slatted bamboo walls providing diffused light and natural ventilation. \nThe regularly spaced vertical bamboo support connected to horizontal slats create a powerful decorative effect enhanced by the sunlight.\n\nAmong the notable advances made in the use of local materials were the introduction of a dampproof course and a brick foundation as well as the addition of straw to the loam mixture of earth and water. In regard to the use of bamboo, progress was made in constructing a layered ceiling of bamboo sticks, bamboo boards and earth, and in building the first floor walls and roof with a frame consisting of beams (four layers of joined bamboo sticks) and vertical and diagonal poles.\n\nIn 2007, the building received the Aga Khan award. There was special mention of the way in which \"easily available local materials\" had been used \"to create a new model for school construction that is beautiful, simple and humane.\"\n\nIn 2009, the Curry Stone Design Prize was awarded to Anna Heringer for the METI Handmade School and two related projects in Rudrapur. Reference was made to a \"new handmade approach to sustainable building\" under which local materials are used by local laborers \"who learn new construction methods, offering an elegant alternative to the trend toward buildings made from western materials such as cement and steel.\"\n"}
{"id": "21583340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21583340", "title": "Maldivian constitutional referendum, 1952", "text": "Maldivian constitutional referendum, 1952\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Maldives on 17 and 18 April 1952. The new constitution would convert the country from a monarchy to a republic. \n\nAfter the death of Sultan Abdul Majeed Didi on 21 February 1952, the members of the country's parliament chose Mohamed Amin Didi to be the next Sultan. However, he stated that \"for the sake of the people of Maldives I would not accept the crown and the throne\".\n\nThe People's Majlis voted on 13 April to form a commission with Amin Didi as its chairman to determine the country's future governance structure. Other members included Famuladeyri Kaleygefan, Chief Justice Abdullah Jalaludeen, Majlis Speaker Malim Moosa Mafaiy Kilegefan, Deputy Vazirul-Auzam Ibrahim Mohamed Didi, Kolhumadulu Atoll MP Ibrahim Shihab, Galolhu MP Bucha Hassan Kaleygefan and Faadhippolhu Atoll chief Kaannaa Kaleygefan. On 16 April the People's Majlis affirmed the commission's decision to form a republic, and to hold a referendum on a new constitution over the following two days. However, the referendum would only be held in Malé.\n\nThe results of the referendum were announced at 16:00 on 18 April. A large majority had voted in favour, and the new constitution came into force on 1 January 1953. Didi became the country's first President after winning almost 96% of the vote in an election. However, he was overthrown on 21 August that year. Following a referendum in the same month, the country reverted to monarchy status on 7 March 1954, with Muhammad Fareed Didi as sultan. \n\nIn 1968 a third referendum on the issue was held, resulting in the country becoming a republic for the second time.\n"}
{"id": "34998619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34998619", "title": "National Association of Drug Court Professionals", "text": "National Association of Drug Court Professionals\n\nThe National Association of Drug Court Professionals (NADCP) is an American 501(c)(3) non-profit organization devoted to furthering the treatment court model and criminal justice reform worldwide. \n\nNADCP is the premier training, membership and advocacy organization representing the more than 3,000 drug courts and other treatment courts, including DWI courts and veterans treatment courts across the United States. Through its divisions, the National Drug Court Institute, the National Center for DWI Courts and Justice For Vets, NADCP trains and provides technical assistance to thousands of treatment court professionals each year. NADCP regularly publishes evidence-based materials and guides designed to give treatment courts the tools needed for an effective program. In addition, NADCP takes the lead in advocating for treatment courts in the United States Congress and other governmental bodies nationwide.\n\nNADCP operates its training and technical support services through three divisions:\n\nThe National Drug Court Institute is the division of NADCP charged with administering training and technical assistance to adult drug courts, tribal healing to wellness courts and statewide treatment court conferences.\n\nThe National Center for DWI Courts provides training to new and established DWI courts. NCDC also works to promote awareness of DWI courts and impaired driving nationally. \n\nJustice For Vets provides training to veterans treatment courts and works to bring awareness to the unique challenges veterans face when returning from service. The division also operates the Justice For Vets National Veteran Mentor Corps, a group of veterans trained to be mentors to fellow veterans participating in a veterans treatment court program. \n\nIn 2013 and 2015 NADCP released volumes I and II of the Adult Drug Court Best Practice Standards. Representing 25 years of empirical study on addiction, pharmacology, behavioral health, and criminal justice, the standards are the foundation upon which all adult drug courts should operate. \n\nNADCP works at a local, state and federal level to ensure the standards are universally implemented.\n\nThe Adult Drug Court Best Practice Standards:\n\n\nIn July 2017, NADCP launched Advancing Justice, an initiative to lead evidence-based justice reform. Advancing Justice seeks to identify and promote the proven and promising solutions for the justice system that are fair, affective and actionable at every intervention point – from entry into the justice system to reentry into society. For its first two projects, the initiative partnered with Sesame Street in Communities to connect their evidence-based tools for children in crisis to justice professionals; and released the inaugural edition of the Journal for Advancing Justice focusing on \"Identifying and Rectifying Racial, Ethnic, and Gender Disparities in Treatment Courts.\" \n\nNADCP’s Annual Training Conference is the world’s largest on mental health, substance use and criminal justice. It annually hosts nearly 6,000 attendees from across the world in nearly every discipline within the criminal justice field as well as clinicians, treatment providers and veterans. \n\nThe 2019 Annual Training Conference is July 14-17 in National Harbor, Maryland. \n\n"}
{"id": "48606927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48606927", "title": "Notice of Intent to Lien", "text": "Notice of Intent to Lien\n\nIn Mechanics lien law a \"Notice of Intent to Lien\" (also known as a Notice of Intent, a Notice of Intent to File a Mechanics Lien, an intent notice, an NOI, or a notice of non-payment) is a type of preliminary notice that warns the property owner, prime contractor, and/or other party on a construction that a mechanics lien or bond claim will be filed unless overdue payments are made within a certain period of time.\n\nA Notice of Intent to Lien is formally required in nine states. In these states, notices of intent must be sent prior to the filing of a mechanics lien claim. These requirements only exist for private projects, there are no notice of intent requirements on state, federal, and other public works projects. The following states require the sending of a Notice of Intent to Lien.\n\nSending a Notice of Intent is often helpful even if it is not required because it motivates top-of-chain parties to make payment in order to avoid facing a claim of lien. Delayed payment on construction projects often results from a lack of communication, so sending Notices of Intent and other preliminary notices can help inform parties higher up the payment chain of who is working for them and who has not been paid.\n"}
{"id": "26289198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26289198", "title": "Ombudsman", "text": "Ombudsman\n\nAn ombudsman, ombudsperson, ombud, or public advocate is an official who is charged with representing the interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints of maladministration or a violation of rights. The ombudsman is usually appointed by the government or by parliament, but with a significant degree of independence. In some countries an inspector general, citizen advocate or other official may have duties similar to those of a national ombudsman, and may also be appointed by a legislature. Below the national level an ombudsman may be appointed by a state, local or municipal government. Unofficial ombudsmen may be appointed by, or even work for, a corporation such as a utility supplier, newspaper, NGO, or professional regulatory body.\n\nThe typical duties of an ombudsman are to investigate complaints and attempt to resolve them, usually through recommendations (binding or not) or mediation. Ombudsmen sometimes also aim to identify systematic issues leading to poor service or breaches of people's rights. At the national level, most ombudsmen have a wide mandate to deal with the entire public sector, and sometimes also elements of the private sector (for example, contracted service providers). In some cases, there is a more restricted mandate, for example with particular sectors of society. More recent developments have included the creation of specialized Children's Ombudsman and Information Commissioner agencies.\n\nIn some jurisdictions an ombudsman charged with handling concerns about national government is more formally referred to as the \"Parliamentary Commissioner\" (e.g. the United Kingdom Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, and the Western Australian state Ombudsman). In many countries where the ombudsman's responsibility includes protecting human rights, the ombudsman is recognized as the national human rights institution. The post of ombudsman had by the end of the 20th century been instituted by most governments and by some intergovernmental organizations such as the European Union.\n\nA prototype of an ombudsman may have flourished in China during the Qin Dynasty (221 BC), and in Korea during the Joseon Dynasty. The position of secret royal inspector, or Amhaeng-eosa (암행어사, 暗行御史) was unique to the Joseon Dynasty, where an undercover official directly appointed by the king was sent to local provinces to monitor government officials and look after the populace while travelling incognito. The Roman Tribune had some similar roles, with power to veto acts that infringed upon the Plebeians. Another precursor to the ombudsman was the Turkish Diwan-al-Mazalim which appears to go back to the second caliph, Umar (634–644) and the concept of Qadi al-Qudat. They were also attested in Siam, India, the Liao dynasty (Khitan Empire), Japan, and China.\n\nAn indigenous Swedish, Norwegian, and Danish term, \"ombudsman\" is etymologically rooted in the Old Norse word \"umboðsmaðr\", essentially meaning \"representative\" (with the word \"umbud/ombud\" meaning \"proxy\", \"attorney\", that is someone who is authorized to act for someone else, a meaning it still has in the Scandinavian languages). In the Danish Law of Jutland from 1241, the term is \"umbozman\" and means a royal civil servant in a hundred. From 1552, it is also used in the other Scandinavian languages such as the both Icelandic and Faroese \"umboðsmaður\", the Norwegian \"ombudsmann\"/\"ombodsmann\" and the Swedish \"ombudsman\". The Swedish-speaking minority in Finland uses the Swedish terminology.\n\nUse of the term in modern times began in Sweden, with the Swedish Parliamentary Ombudsman instituted by the Instrument of Government of 1809, to safeguard the rights of citizens by establishing a supervisory agency independent of the executive branch.\nThe predecessor of the Swedish Parliamentary Ombudsman was the Office of Supreme Ombudsman (\"Högste Ombudsmannen\"), which was established by the Swedish King, Charles XII, in 1713. Charles XII was in exile in Turkey and needed a representative in Sweden to ensure that judges and civil servants acted in accordance with the laws and with their duties. If they did not do so, the Supreme Ombudsman had the right to prosecute them for negligence. In 1719 the Swedish Office of Supreme Ombudsman became the Chancellor of Justice. The Parliamentary Ombudsman was established in 1809 by the Swedish Riksdag, as a parallel institution to the still-present Chancellor of Justice, reflecting the concept of separation of powers as developed by Montesquieu.\n\nThe Parliamentary Ombudsman is the institution that the Scandinavian countries subsequently developed into its contemporary form, and which subsequently has been adopted in many other parts of the world. The word ombudsman and its specific meaning have since been adopted in various languages, such as Dutch. The German language uses \"Ombudsmann\", \"Ombudsfrau\" and \"Ombudsleute\". Notable exceptions are French and Finnish, which use translations instead. Modern variations of this term include \"ombud,\" \"ombuds,\" \"ombudsperson,\" or \"ombudswoman,\" and the conventional English plural is \"ombudsmen\". In Nigeria, the ombudsman is known as the \"Public Complaints Commission\" or the \"ombudsman\"\n\nIn general, an ombudsman is a state official appointed to provide a check on government activity in the interests of the citizen, and to oversee the investigation of complaints of improper government activity against the citizen. If the ombudsman finds a complaint to be substantiated, the problem may get rectified, or an ombudsman report is published making recommendations for change. Further redress depends on the laws of the country concerned, but this typically involves financial compensation. Ombudsmen in most countries do not have the power to initiate legal proceedings or prosecution on the grounds of a complaint. This role is sometimes referred to as a \"tribunician\" role, and has been traditionally fulfilled by elected representatives – the term refers to the ancient Roman \"tribunes of the plebeians\" (\"tribuni plebis\"), whose role was to intercede in the political process on behalf of common citizens.\n\nThe major advantage of an ombudsman is that he or she examines complaints from outside the offending state institution, thus avoiding the conflicts of interest inherent in self-policing. However, the ombudsman system relies heavily on the selection of an appropriate individual for the office, and on the cooperation of at least some effective official from within the apparatus of the state. The institution has also been criticized: \"Ombudsmen are relics of absolutism, designed to iron out the worst excesses of administrative arbitrariness while keeping the power structures intact.\"\n\nMany private companies, universities, non-profit organisations and government agencies also have an ombudsman (or an ombuds office) to serve internal employees, and managers and/or other constituencies. These ombudsman roles are structured to function independently, by reporting to the CEO or board of directors, and according to International Ombudsman Association (IOA) Standards of Practice they do not have any other role in the organisation. Organisational ombudsmen often receive more complaints than alternative procedures such as anonymous hot-lines.\n\nSince the 1960s, the profession has grown in the United States, and Canada, particularly in corporations, universities and government agencies. The organizational ombudsman works as a designated neutral party, one who is high-ranking in an organization, but who is not part of executive management. Using an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) or \"appropriate\" dispute resolution approach, an organisational ombudsman can provide options to whistleblowers or employees and managers with ethical concerns; provide coaching, shuttle diplomacy, generic solutions (meaning a solution which protects the identity of one individual by applying to a class of people, rather than just for the one individual) and mediation for conflicts; track problem areas; and make recommendations for changes to policies or procedures in support of orderly systems change.\n\nThe People's Advocate (Ombudsman) of the Republic of Albania () was envisaged in Chapter VI of the Albanian Constitution approved in November 1998 (articles 60–63 and 134). Article 60 states that \"The People’s Advocate defends the rights, freedoms and lawful interests of individuals from unlawful or improper actions or failures to act of the organs of public administration.\" The Parliament passed the Law on the People’s Advocate, Law No. 8454, in February 1999. The People’s Advocate is elected by three-fifths of all members of the Assembly for a five-year period, with the right of re-election. The Law has since been amended by Law No. 8600, of 10 April 2000, and Law No. 9398, of 12 May 2005.\n\nThe current Ombudsman is Erinda Ballanca, elected on 22 May 2017, succeeding Igli Totozani, elected on 23 December 2011, and Dr Emir Dobjani who had served since February 2000.\n\nIn the Principality of Andorra, the ombudsman is called \"Raonador del Ciutadà\".\n\nThe Defensor del Pueblo de la Nación Argentina (\"The People's Defender of The Nation of Argentina\"), established in Article 86 of the Constitution, is an independent body related to the Argentine National Congress with functional autonomy, as it does not receive instructions from any authority and enjoys same immunities and privileges as a legislator.\n\nThe principal functions are, first, the defense of human rights and other rights, guarantees and interests protected by the Constitution, to acts or omissions of public administration, and secondly, the control of public administrative functions. The Defender is elected by the vote of 2/3 of the members present in each branch of Congress for a period of five years and may be reappointed.\n\nThe office of Human Rights Defender, or Ombudsman, of Armenia was created by law in October 2003. The official website describes the goal of the office as the protection and restoration of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It receives complaints against state and local officials. In February 2004 Larisa Alaverdyan was appointed to the office by presidential decree. The second ombudsman was Armen Harutyunyan, who was elected by the National Assembly under article 83.1 of the Constitution on 17 February 2006, obtaining more than 3/5 votes of deputies, for what was intended to be a six-year term commencing on 20 February. The 2003 law governing the office was amended later in 2006, 2008 and 2010. Karen Andreasyan was the third human rights defender in Armenia. On 2 March 2011, the National Assembly of Armenia elected the new Armenian Ombudsman, with 83 parliamentarians voting for and 13 against. Karen Andreasyan assumed his responsibilities as Human Rights Defender of the Republic of Armenia as of 3 March 2011. \n\nThe current Human Rights Defender, Arman Tatoyan, was elected by the National Assembly in February 2016, and became the fourth ombudsman of the Republic of Armenia. Arman Tatoyan was the former deputy Minister of Justice. \n\nThe Commonwealth Ombudsman in Australia was established in 1976. The Ombudsman can investigate complaints about the actions and decisions of Australian Government departments and agencies, the services delivered by most private contractors for the Australian Government, and oversee complaint investigations conducted by the Australian Federal Police.\n\nThere are also ombudsman agencies in each state, a number of industry based ombudsmen, children's commissioners and many other complaint-handling and review agencies, as detailed in the main article.\n\nThe three-member Ombudsman Board (, literally People's Representative) was created in 1977 as an independent authority monitoring Austria’s entire public administration. It checks the legality of decisions by authorities and examines possible cases of maladministration. The members are appointed by parliament for six-year terms.\n\nThere are also children's ombudsman offices.\n\nThe Commissioner for Human Rights (Ombudsman) of the Republic of Azerbaijan is also the country's national human rights institution, accredited with A status by the International Co-ordinating Committee of NHRIs. The first ombudsman, Elmira Suleymanova, was elected by the Parliament on 2 July 2002, and was reappointed in 2010 for a second term. Suleymanova (born 1937), formerly a professor of chemistry, had been active in the women’s movement in Azerbaijan.\n\nUnder the Ombudsman Act 1980, the Ombudsman of Barbados is appointed by the Governor-General with the approval of both houses of the legislature. The current Ombudsman of Barbados is Valton Bend, a former Magistrate.\n\nThe Bahraini Ombudsman (Arabic: الأمانة العامة للتظلمات ) is an independent secretariat, financially and administratively, in the Ministry of Interior Bahrain established to ensure compliance with professional standards of policing set forth in the Code of Conduct for the Police, as well as in the administrative regulations governing the performance of civil servants.\nIt operates within a general framework that includes respect for human rights and the consolidation of justice, the rule of law and the public confidence, in line with Recommendation 1717 and Recommendation 1722 Paragraph (d) in the report by the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry (BICI).\nThe Ombudsman assumes its authority and mission in full independence with respect to the complaints it receives against any civilian or public security personnel in the Ministry of Interior Bahrain for alleged criminal offense because of, during or as result of their scope of responsibilities.\nIn addition, the Ombudsman informs the competent authority in the Ministry of Interior to take disciplinary action against violators employed by the ministry. It also informs the public prosecutor in the cases that constitute criminal offenses. It updates both the complainant and the defendant about the steps taken to investigate the complaints and the conclusions of the investigations.\nhttp://www.ombudsman.bh/en/about/\n\nBelgium has one federal and four regional statutory ombudsman agencies, all covering the normal range of complaint-handling, investigation and mediation within the respective jurisdictions of their founding legislature.\nBelgium also has separate children's commissioners for the French and Flemish communities.\nThere is a Pensions Ombudsman service (\"Ombudsdienst Pensioenen\", \"Service de médiation Pensions\", \"Ombudsmann für Pensionen\") at the federal level.\n\nThe Office of the Ombudsman for Bermuda was established by the Bermuda Constitution and is governed by the Ombudsman Act 2004. The first National Ombudsman for Bermuda, Arlene Brock, was appointed on 1 August 2005 by the Governor after consultation with the Premier who first consulted with the Opposition Leader. The Ombudsman investigates complaints about the administrative actions of Public Authorities, including Government Departments, Boards and Bodies established or funded by the Legislature.\n\nThe Institution of Human Rights Ombudsman/Ombudsmen of Bosnia and Herzegovina is also the country's UN-accredited national human rights institution. It was created by law in 2004.\n\nWhile the ombudsman's Child Rights Section is a member of the Children's Ombudsman network, there is a separate children's ombudsman in Republika Srpska.\n\nIn Brazil the nearest equivalent to the office of ombudsman is the Procuradoria Federal dos Direitos do Cidadão, part of Public Ministry of Brazil, which is independent.\nGovernment agencies have Hearing Officer (), usually heading a service called \"Ouvidoria\", and each government agency defines its own service. These Hearing Officer usually lack full independence. Examples of public service ombudsmen are the \"Ouvidoria da Polícia do Estado de São Paulo\" — São Paulo State Police Ombudsman — and the \"Ouvidoria da Secretaria de Defesa Social do Estado do Rio Grande do Norte\" — Ombudsman of the Social Security Ministry of the State of Rio Grande do Norte.\n\nThe Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria () is the national human rights institution, in addition to the normal range of functions in relation to maladministration. The institution was created as the 'Citizen's Defender' (Граждански защитник) in 1998 but the first Ombudsman was elected in April 2005. Since October 2015 the office has been held by Maya Manolova. There are also regional ombudsmen (Citizen's Mediators, Граждански посредници) in most parts of the country.\n\nIn Canada, ombudsman offices are present in most departments of the federal government, in many provincial and municipal governments as well as in Crown Corporations such as CBC and Canada Post. There is an Ombudsman for the Department of National Defence and the Canadian Forces, an Office of the Procurement Ombudsman, an Office for the Ombudsman for the Victims of Crimes, an Office of the Taxpayers Ombudsman and an Office of the Veterans Ombudsman.\n\nThere are also several independent ombuds offices in Canada, including the Ombudsman for Banking Services and Investments and various child advocate offices.\n\nWhile Canada has no single national legislative ombudsman, nine Canadian provinces and one territory have parliamentary ombudsmen (sometimes called \"citizens' protector\" or \"citizens' representative\") in the classical/legislative tradition, who oversee the provincial government and receive and investigate public complaints. They are:\n\nChile remains in 2012 the only country in South America without a national ombudsman office, although one was envisaged in a constitutional reform proposed in the Senate by the President in 2000. Indeed, Chile is not listed as having an ombudsman on the website of the Ibero-American Federation of Ombudsmen. There exists, however, a 'Capítulo Chileno del Ombudsman', or 'Chilean Ombudsman Chapter', an organisation lobbying for the introduction of a national ombudsman.\n\nSome other public bodies, such as the (\"Instituto Nacional de Derechos Humanos\") or the (\"Consejo para la Transparencia\"), have quasi-ombudsman functions, in that their statutes allow them to appeal to the legislature and judiciary for protection and development of fundamental rights. However, unlike many other ombudsman agencies, they do not have constitutional status, but were created by ordinary statutes.\n\nThe People's Defender () or Ombudsman's Office of Colombia is the national agency in charge of overseeing the protection of civil and human rights within the legal framework of the state of Colombia.\n\nThe ombudsman office in Costa Rica, which is also the national human rights institution, is unique in bearing the name Defender of the Inhabitants (). In 1993 it absorbed a former children's ombudsman office.\n\nThe Commissioner for Administration (), usually referred to as the Ombudsman, is an Independent Authority in Cyprus and was established οn 15 March 1991. The office is currently held by Maria Stylianou-Lottides.\n\nThere is also a Commissioner for Children’s Rights.\n\nThe Public Defender of Rights () of the Czech Republic is more frequently referred to simply as \"ombudsman\". The office was established in 1999. It has the traditional ombudsman role of mediating between complainants and officials in public bodies, but has no direct means or mechanisms of enforcement. Should the relevant body fail to provide a remedy, the ombudsman may refer the matter to the government. Following the death in office of the first ever Czech ombudsman, Otakar Motejl, in May 2010, former Constitutional Court judge Pavel Varvařovský was elected to the office by the lower house of parliament in September 2010. After his resignation in December 2013, Anna Šabatová, a deputy-ombudswoman from 2001 to 2007, was elected and sworn to the office in February 2014.\n\n\nIn Ecuador, the officer known as People's Defender () performs the functions of an ombudsman.\n\nThe country of El Salvador has a Human Rights Procurator, also referred to as ombudsman ().\n\nThe Chancellor of Justice () of Estonia is an independent supervisor of the basic principles of the Constitution of Estonia and the protector of individual rights. The function of ombudsman was entrusted to the Chancellor of Justice in 1999. The Chancellor of Justice monitors whether state agencies comply with people’s fundamental rights and freedoms and with the principles of good governance. In 2004 the ombudsman functions expanded to cover local governments, legal persons in public law and private persons who exercise public functions.\n\nThe European Ombudsman was established by the Maastricht treaty, the treaty establishing the European Union. The current European Ombudsman, holding office since October 1, 2013, is Emily O'Reilly, former national ombudsman of Ireland. The European Union Ombudsman investigates claims by individuals or companies which reside or have their interests within the European Union against incidents of bad administration by bodies or institutions of the European Union.\n\nIn Finland the office of Parliamentary Ombudsman (, ), modelled after the Swedish Ombudsman, was established by the Constitution of 1919. The Ombudsman is appointed by Parliament, and has the task of ensuring that all government departments and officials follow the law. The Parliamentary Ombudsman shares many duties with the Chancellor of Justice. The Ombudsman has wide-ranging oversight and investigative powers, has access to all government facilities, documents and information systems and can order a police investigation if necessary. If the Ombudsman determines that a government official has not acted in accordance with the law she or he can advise on the proper application of the law, reprimand the official or in extreme cases order a criminal prosecution. Partly because of the prosecutorial powers, the office enjoys considerable respect and the Ombudsman's legal opinions are usually strictly followed, carrying a lot of weight in the absence of a court precedent.\n\nThere are also special ombudsmen for gender equality (\"Tasa-arvovaltuutettu\"/\"Jämställdhetsombudman\"), children's welfare (\"Lapsiasiavaltuutettu\"/\"Barnombudsman\"), rights of ethnic minorities (\"Vähemmistövaltuutettu\"/\"Minoritetsombudsman\"), data protection, and consumer protection, operating under the auspices of various ministries and other government agencies. Every health care provider in Finland is legally obliged to have a patients' rights ombudsman.\n\nIn 1973, the French Government created an office of Ombudsman (). A reform in May 2011 merged that office with the Children's Ombudsman (\"Défenseur des enfants\"), the equality authority (\"Haute autorité de lutte contre les discriminations et pour l’égalité\", HALDE) and the body supervising the conduct of police and other security agencies, the \"Commission nationale de déontologie de la sécurité\" (CNDS), creating a new body named the Defender of Rights (\"Défenseur des droits\"). In July 2011 Dominique Baudis was appointed to the office by the Council of State on the nomination of the Prime Minister, for a single six-year term but died in April 2014. In June 2014, former minister Jacques Toubon was chosen for the following six years.\n\nThe Public Defender (Ombudsman) of Georgia () is a national human rights institution. The office was established by Parliament in 1997. The Public Defender is elected for a five-year term by a parliamentary majority, and must follow the Constitution and the law, as well as the universally recognized principles and rules of international law, and international treaties and agreements concluded by Georgia.\n\nThe Public Defender supervises the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, investigates violation of human rights and assists in securing redress. The office supervises the activities of national or local public authorities, public officials and legal persons, evaluates all acts passed by them and gives recommendations and proposals. The office also conducts human rights education. The current Public Defender, George Tugushi, was elected in 2009. His mandate expires in 2014.\n\nThe nearest equivalent to a federal ombudsman service in Germany is the Parliamentary Petitions Committee (), which receives and investigates complaints of maladministration. There are a number of sectoral ombudsmen, including the Parliamentary Military-Ombudsman (\"Wehrbeauftragter des Deutschen Bundestages\") and the Ombudsman Institution for Public Transport (\"Schlichtungsstelle für den öffentlichen Personenverkehr e.V.\", SÖP).\n\nThe Gibraltar Public Services Ombudsman is an independent authority whose functions are to investigate complaints received from the general public about acts of maladministration by the Government of Gibraltar and certain public bodies and contractors. The Office of the Ombudsman came into being in April 1999 with the appointment of Henry Pinna as Gibraltar's first Public Services Ombudsman.\n\nThe Citizen's Advocate (Ombudsman) of Greece () was created in 1998 as an Independent Authority. Following the resignation of Professor Georgios Kaminis in September 2010, the duties of the Citizen's Advocate passed to Deputy Ombudsman Kalliopi Spanou. The Advocate is assisted by six Assistant Advocates, who coordinate the activities of the Advocate's office in the six thematic areas in which the office has authority: i) civil rights, ii) social protection, iii) quality of life, iv) state-citizen relationships, v) children's rights, and vi) gender equality.\n\nThe Office of The Ombudsman, known as the Commission for Administrative Complaints until 1994, is an independent statutory authority, established in 1989 under the Commissioner for Administrative Complaints Ordinance 1988, to redress grievances arising from maladministration in the public sector through independent and impartial investigations to improve the standard of public administration.\n\nAfter 1989, the end of the communist era multiple Parliamentary Commissioner (), or ombudsman, posts were created:\n\nAs of 1 January 2012, the four ombudsmen merged into one office of Commissioner for Fundamental Rights (\"Alapvető jogok biztosa\").\n\nThe post of Althing Ombudsman () was set up in 1987 under the terms of law number 13/1987, which deals with complaints against the government. The ombudsman's authority was expanded to local government levels in the 1997 law number 85/1997. The ombudsman is appointed for a four-year term by the parliament (Althing or \"Alþingi\"). The Ombudsman aims to safeguard the rights of the citizens vis-à-vis the State and local authorities, and to promote equality and good administrative practice.\n\nThe Government of India has designated several ombudsmen (sometimes called Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO)) for the redress of grievances and complaints from individuals in the banking, insurance and other sectors being serviced by both private and public bodies and corporations. The CVC (Central Vigilance Commission) was set up on the recommendation of the Santhanam Committee (1962–64).\n\nIn India, the Ombudsman is known as the Lokpal or Lokayukta. An Administrative Reforms Commission (ARC) was set up on 5 January 1966 under the Chairmanship of Shri Morarji Desai. It recommended a two-tier machinery: Lokpal at the Centre (parliamentary commissioner, as in New Zealand) and one Lokayukta each at the State level for redress of people's grievances. However, the jurisdiction of the Lokpal did not extend to the judiciary (as in case of New Zealand). The central Government introduced the first Lokpal Bill, Lokpal and Lokayuktas Bill in 1968, and further legislation was introduced in 2005. Final bill, after all the amendments, has been passed in Rajya Sabha on 17 December 2013 and passed in Loksabha on 18 December 2013.\n\nThe state-level Lokayukta institution has developed gradually. Orissa was the first state to present a bill on establishment of Lokayukta in 1970, but Maharashtra was the first to establish the institution, in 1972. Other states followed: Bihar (1974), Uttar Pradesh (1977), Madhya Pradesh (1981), Andhra Pradesh (1983), Himachal Pradesh (1983), Karnataka (1984), Assam (1986), Gujarat (1988), Delhi (1995), Punjab (1996), Kerala (1998), Chhattishgarh (2002), Uttaranchal (2002), West Bengal (2003) and Haryana (2004). The structure of the Lokayukta is not uniform across all the states. Some states have UpaLokayukta under the Lokayukta and in some states, the Lokayukta does not have \"suo moto\" powers of instigating an enquiry.\n\nKerala State has an Ombudsman for Local Self Government institutions like Panchayats, Municipalities and Corporations. He can enquire/investigate into allegations of action, inaction, corruption and maladministration. A retired Judge of the High Court is appointed by the Governor for a term of three years, under the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act.\n\nIn the State of Rajasthan, the Lokayukta institution was established in 1973 after the Rajasthan Lokayukta and Up-Lokayuktas Act, 1973 was passed by the State Legislature.\n\nThe Reserve Bank of India launched an \"Ombudsman Scheme\" for redress of complaints against non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) free of charge.\n\nThis scheme is applicable to only those NBFCs which:\n\nThe complainant can file the complaint with the NBFC Ombudsman under whose jurisdiction the branch or registered office of the NBFC falls in the following cases:\n\nThe 2011 Indian anti-corruption movement led by social activist Anna Hazare and Arvind Kejriwal includes in its demands the creation of a stronger ombudsman agency (with jurisdiction over all state institutions) through the enactment of a Jan Lokpal Bill, as an alternative to the Lokpal Bill proposed by the government in 2010.\n\nThe State Ombudsman of Iran is General Inspection Office. This office was the one of Founding Members of AOA (Asian Ombudsman Association) and hosted 4th and 13th Annual conferences of AOA at 1999 and 2013.\nIn Iran an organization called دیوان عدالت اداری or \"The Administration Justice Court\" is set to investigate the complains of any government employee/staff who has been discriminated.\n\nThe Office of the Ombudsman was set up under the terms of the Ombudsman Act 1980. The Ombudsman is appointed by the President of Ireland upon the nomination of both Houses of the Oireachtas, and is a civil servant of the State. The Ombudsman deals with complaints against Departments of State, local authorities, the Health Service Executive (Ireland), private and public nursing homes and direct provision accommodation services.\n\nThere are other ombudsmen established in Ireland. The first Pensions Ombudsman, Paul Kenny, was appointed in 2003. Emily Logan became Ireland’s first Ombudsman for Children in March 2004. The Financial Services Ombudsman incorporated the older offices of the Insurance Ombudsman and Ombudsman for Credit Institutions in 2005. Also established in 2005 was the Office of the Ombudsman for the Defence Forces, the first holder being Paulyn Marrinan Quinn, formerly the founding Insurance Ombudsman. An Act of 2005 created a three-person tribunal, the Garda Síochána Ombudsman Commission, to investigate complaints about the country's police force. All these offices are statutory and their holders are public servants.\n\nA (non-statutory) Press Ombudsman began work in January 2008 and legislation has been published to establish a Legal Services Ombudsman. The Ombudsman (Amendment) Bill of 2008 provided for the statutory protection of the title of Ombudsman. This was passed as the Ombudsman (Amendment) Act 2012, which increased the number of State agencies under the Ombudsman's remit, and also designated the Ombudsman as Director (Chief Executive) of the Office of the Commission for Public Service Appointments.\n\nIrish Ombudsmen to date have been Michael Mills from 1984 to 1994, Kevin Murphy from 1994 to 2003, Emily O'Reilly from 2003 to 2013, and Peter Tyndall, who was appointed in December 2013.\n\nThe State Comptroller also serves, by law, as Ombudsman. She or he discharges this function by way of a special unit in the Office of the State Comptroller, known as the Office of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman investigates complaints against bodies that are statutorily subject to audit by the State Comptroller, including government ministries, local authorities, state enterprises and institutions and government companies, as well as their employees.\n\nThere is no generic national ombudsman office, but by Law no. 112 of 12 July 2011, an Ombudsman for childhood and adolescence was set up as an independent institute. Many units of sub-national government (regions, provinces and communes) have their own ombudsman (), who are elected by regional, provincial or communal councils.\n\nThe Office of the Public Defender was created in 2000 by the Public Defender Act 1999, replacing the Office of the Parliamentary Ombudsman which had existed since 1978. The Public Defender (currently Earl Witter) has the typical ombudsman function of investigating and remedying maladministration, with additional jurisdiction to investigate alleged violations of constitutional rights.\n\nThe Commissioner for Human Rights (), or National Ombudsman of the Republic of Kazakhstan, is Askar Shakirov, appointed in 2007. The office was created by presidential decree in 2002 as a national human rights institution, with support from the OSCE.\n\nThe Commission on Administrative Justice was established by the Commission on Administrative Justice Act 2011(hereafter referred to as the Act) pursuant to Article 59 (4) of the Constitution of Kenya. CAJ is a Commission within the meaning of chapter 15 of the constitution and has the status and powers of a commission under that chapter.\n\nThe Ombudsperson Institution in Kosovo (OIK) accepts and investigates complaints of human rights violations or abuses of authority by any public authority in Kosovo. The institution is currently led by Ombudsperson Sami Kurteshi, a former opposition activist, political prisoner and human rights activist, who was elected to the post by the Assembly of Kosovo on 4 June 2009. In October 2011 the Assembly elected five deputy Ombudspersons: Isa Hasani, Bogoljub Staletovic [from the Serb community], Shqipe Malaj-Ibra, Ibrahim Arslan (from the Turkish community) and Basri Berisha.\n\nThe first Ombudsperson, Marek Antoni Nowicki, was appointed in July 2000 by the then Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General (SRSG), Bernard Kouchner; Nowicki's appointment was renewed in 2002, 2004 and 2005 by subsequent SRSGs Michael Steiner, Harri Holkeri and Søren Jessen-Petersen. With effect from 1 January 2006 Jessen-Petersen appointed a Kosovar lawyer, Hilmi Jashari, as Acting Ombudsperson and he remained in post until Kurteshi took office.\n\nThe OIK has several offices throughout Kosovo, and participates (although not yet accredited) in the global network of national human rights institutions, as well as in the European ombudsman network.\n\nThe Ombudsman of the Kyrgyz Republic ( - Akyikatchy) carry out parliamentary control over the observance of the rights and freedoms of man and citizen.\n\nSince 2007, the Latvian ombudsman is a personalized institution literally called Rights Defender (). Previously, similar functions were carried by National Human Rights Office (1995—2006).\n\nIn Lithuania, the nearest equivalent to the position of ombudsman is that of Parliamentary Controller (), an office appointed by the Seimas (Parliament of Lithuania).\n\nThere is also a children's ombudsman.\n\nSince 1997 Macedonia has an Ombudsman for protection of citizens rights (). The ombudsman is appointed by the Parliament and performs her or his work under the Constitution and the Law of the Ombudsman.\n\nSince 1995, Malta has a Commissioner for Administrative Investigations known as the Ombudsman. The Office of the Ombudsman is a constitutional body established by the Constitution of Malta and is regulated by the Ombudsman Act. The Ombudsman may investigate, \"suo motu\" or on foot of a complaint, the actions of State bodies or other public entities. In Malta, the Ombudsman is also an Officer of Parliament and is appointed by the House of Representatives of Malta through a resolution supported by votes of not less than two-thirds of all members of the House. The Ombudsman may be assisted by other Commissioners appointed for specialised areas in accordance to the law. The recommendations issued by the Maltese Office of the Ombudsman are not binding legally but do have a persuasive value.\n\nArticle 78 of the Constitution of the Netherlands, as revised in 1983, established an office of National Ombudsman. The Ombudsman may investigate, \"suo motu\" or on foot of a complaint, the actions of State bodies or other public entities. The ombudsman and deputy are appointed by the House of Representatives for a fixed period or until reaching retirement age. The office includes a children's ombudsman.\n\nThe post of Ombudsman was established in New Zealand in 1962, to investigate complaints against government departments. In 1975 the post was expanded, with a Chief Ombudsman and several other ombudsmen. In 1983 his responsibilities were extended to include investigation of agencies that fail to provide information requested in accordance with the Official Information Act. The Ombudsman also has responsibility to protect 'whistleblowers' and investigate the administration of prisons and other places of detention.\n\nThere is also a Children's Commissioner. New Zealand also has three industry ombudsmen – the New Zealand Banking Ombudsman, the Insurance and Savings Ombudsman, and the Electricity and Gas Complaints Commissioner who is an ombudsman in all but name.\n\n\nIn Pakistan, the establishment of an ombudsman institution had been advocated for some time before Article 276 of the Interim Constitution of 1972 provided for the appointment of a Federal Ombudsman () and Provincial Ombudsmen. The Constitution of 1973 also provided for a Federal Ombudsman, and the institution was eventually created through the Establishment of the Office of \"Wafaqi Mohtasib\" (Ombudsman) Order, 1983 (President’s Order No. 1 of 1983), which is now a part of the Constitution of Pakistan by virtue of Article 270-A. It started functioning on 8 August 1983. The office of Ombudsman is currently held by Salman Farooqi. The Ombudsman has headquarters in Islamabad and Regional Offices in Lahore, Sukkur, Quetta, Faisalabad, Multan, Dera Ismail Khan, Peshawar and Karachi.\n\nOther ombudsman agencies in Pakistan include Provincial Ombudsman (\"Mohtasib-e-Aala\") offices in Punjab, Balochistan and Sindh; a banking ombudsman, the Banking Mohtasib Pakistan; a Federal Insurance Ombudsman and a Federal Tax Ombudsman. The disputed region of Azad Jammu and Kashmir also has an Ombudsman office. Under the Protection of Women against Harassment at Workplace Act 2010, Musarrat Hilali was appointed in the same year to be the first Federal Ombudsperson for Protection of Women against Harassment at Workplace. The Act provides for similar offices at the provincial level.\n\nThe various ombudsman agencies participate in a Forum of Pakistan Ombudsman (FPO), and the federal bodies are affiliated to the Asian Ombudsman Association (AOA) and the International Ombudsman Institute (IOI).\n\nThe Peruvian ombudsman agency is called the Public Defender (). The functions of the institution, which was envisaged by the 1993 Constitution and was created in 1996, include combating maladministration, human rights violations and discrimination. It has 36 offices throughout the country. The current \"Defensora\" (ombudsman), Beatriz Merino, was elected by Congress on 29 September 2005 for a five-year term. The \"Defensoría\" is accredited with 'A' status as the national human rights institution. There is also a specialised Police Ombudsman (\"Defensoría de la Policia\").\n\nThe Office of the Ombudsman of the Philippines is empowered by the 1987 Constitution to safeguard both the government and government-owned corporations from corruption and dispense justice in the case of such offenses.\n\nThe Polish Ombudsman is called the \"Rzecznik Praw Obywatelskich\", usually translated as the Commissioner for Protection of Civil Rights, or Commissioner for Human Rights. The office also functions as the national human rights institution, and is accredited with A status by the ICC. The holder of the office from 2006, Dr Janusz Bogumił Kochanowski, died in the April 2010 Smolensk air disaster. He was succeeded by Irena Lipowicz. Since 2015, this position has been held by Adam Bodnar.\n\nThe Portuguese Ombudsman is called the \"\" (lit. \"Justice Provider\"), and its role is defined in article 23 of the Constitution of Portugal:\n\nBesides the traditional routes, complaints can be filed online and there are toll-free lines for children and one for senior citizens. The first Ombudsman was Manuel da Costa Brás (Tenente-Coronel). \n\nThe ombudsman office is the People's Advocate (). Since 15 April 2014, the current ombudsman is Victor Ciorbea.\n\nThe Russian Federation's Commissioner for Human Rights (ombudsman) position is currently held by Tatyana Moskalkova. The Commissioner is appointed for a fixed term by the Parliament. The ombudsman cannot be dismissed before the end of his term, and is not subordinate to any body of power, including the President or the Government.\n\nRussia’s 83 administrative regions have the right to elect a local ombudsman whose authority is limited to that region. Fewer than half have done so.\n\nThere is also a Children's Rights Commissioner post, appointed by the President, currently held by Anna Kuznetsova.\n\nIn June 2012 Vladimir Putin signed Executive Order on the Presidential Commissioner for Entrepreneurs’ Rights – Boris Titov.\n\nIn Serbia, the Protector of Citizens of the Republic of Serbia (Ombudsman) is an independent state authority, mandated to protect human rights and freedoms. It was introduced into the legal system in 2005 by the Law on Ombudsman and confirmed by the Constitution of Serbia in 2006. Ombudsman is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a five-year-term and is accountable to the Assembly for his work. The Ombudsman enjoys the same immunity as a member of the parliament.\n\nThe first Serbian Ombudsman, Saša Janković, was elected by the National Assembly in July 2007. He has four deputies, who are specialized in several fields, especially the protection of rights of persons deprived of liberty, gender equality, children rights, minority rights and rights of people with disabilities.\n\nThe Ombudsman has competence to oversee the work of government agencies, the bodies authorized for legal protection of property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia and other bodies and organizations, enterprises and institutions which have been delegated public authority. He has no jurisdiction over the National Assembly, the President, the Government, the Constitutional Court, courts and Public Prosecutor’s Office. The Ombudsman initiates proceedings following the complaint of a citizen or on his own initiative. State administration bodies are legally obliged to cooperate with the Ombudsman and to provide him access to their premises and all data in their possession, regardless of the degree of secrecy, when of interest to the investigation in process or the Ombudsman’s preventive actions. As a result of an investigation, the Ombudsman may recommend dismissal of an official considered responsible for violation of the rights of citizens, may initiate disciplinary procedures against public administration employees, and may require initiation of penal, offence or other adequate procedure.\n\nThe Ombudsman can also act preemptively, by offering advice and opinion on issues within his competence, to enhance the operation of the administration authorities and strengthen the protection of human liberties and rights. The Ombudsman is entitled to propose laws within its scope of competence, give opinions to the Government and the National Assembly on regulations under preparation and address the Constitutional Court to challenge the constitutionality of laws.\n\nThe Ombudsman provides the National Assembly with an annual report on his work and findings as well as with other special reports.\n\nThe Ombudsman has full membership in the European Ombudsman Institute (EOI), the International Ombudsman Association (IOA), the European Network of Ombudspersons for Children (ENOC) and the Association of Mediterranean Ombudsmen (AMO). In May 2010, it was accredited with 'A' status as the national human rights institution.\n\nOmbudsman role was established as a result of the Ombudsman Act (564/2001). National assembly approves candidate to this position with function term 5 years and maximum of two consecutive terms is allowed. Ombudsman provides national assembly with annual report as a minimum. In case of severe violation of fundamental rights or large number of people affected, ombudsman provides special or extraordinary report anytime. This has happened already three times between 2013-2017, but because of \"opposition background\" of the last but one ombudsman, judge , her concerns were actually ignored by assembly majority, lot of members of parliament were missing during her speeches and public institutions were allowed to ignore the report, so actually no actions were taken to correct the situation. Most recent ombudsman, lawyer and university teacher , was elected in March 2017. \n\nThe institution of the Human Rights Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia was introduced into the Slovenian constitutional order through the new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in December 1991. The Human Rights Ombudsman is defined in Article 159 of the Constitution, which provides that in order to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in relation to state authorities, local self-government authorities and bearers of public authority, the office of the Ombudsman for the rights of citizens shall be established by law.\n\nThe Human Rights Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia is a constitutional category that does not fall under the executive, judicial or legislative branch of authority. The Ombudsman is therefore not part of any mechanism of authority, but rather acts as an overseer of authority since as an institution it restricts its capricious encroachment of human rights and fundamental freedoms.\n\nThe Ombudsman is in his work not only limited to handling direct violations defined as human rights and freedoms in the constitution, moreover, he may act in any case whatsoever dealing with a violation of any right of an individual arising from a holder of authority. He can intervene also in the case if unfair and poor state administration in relation to the individual. If the aforementioned is considered, it can have a significant impact on the development and increase in legal and administrative culture between holders of authority and the individual.\n\nHuman rights ombudsman is in relation towards the state bodies, autonomous and independent agency.\n\nThe Ombudsman can caution violators that they should put right their violation or eliminate irregularities committed, or can even propose compensation. On your behalf, and with your authorisation, he can lodge with the Constitutional Court a request for assessment of the constitutionality and legality of regulations or official documents, or he may submit a constitutional complaint owing to the violation of some right. He may submit to the government or parliament initiatives for the amendment of laws and other regulations. He may also suggest to all bodies that fall within his competence that they improve their dealings and relations with clients.\nThe Ombudsman may also communicate his opinion to anyone regarding cases that are linked to the violation of rights and freedoms. Here it is not important what kind of procedure is involved, nor the stage of processing it has reached at the body in question.\n\nThe Ombudsman cannot perform work or remove violations or irregularities in place of the specific state body, local community body or holder of public authorisation. Those that committed the violation or irregularity are bound also themselves to putting right the violation or\nirregularity. Equally, the Ombudsman cannot deal with cases that are subject to court proceedings, except in exceptional cases.\n\n\nThe state ombudsman of Spain is the Defensor del Pueblo (Defender of the People), dealing with complaints of maladministration and having the capacity to bring cases at the Constitutional Court. The office is prominent in the international networks of ombudsmen and national human rights institutions, particularly through the Ibero-American Ombudsman Federation (FIO).\n\nThere are comparable offices in the autonomous communities of Spain, as follows:\n\n\nSee also Syndic for more uses of the word \"síndic\" in the Catalan linguistic area.\n\nThe office of the Parliamentary Ombudsman (, or \"Justitieombudsmannen\") was established with the Instrument of Government in 1809, originally under the title of \"Ombudsmannen för Riksens ständer\".\n\nThe office was modelled after Chancellor of Justice (), and according to the principle of separation of powers. The Chancellor of Justice was installed in 1714 as a proxy for King Charles XII of Sweden, to act as a representative for the Royal Government. Today it acts as an ombudsman, mainly to oversee that Swedish authorities comply with laws on behalf of the Government, but also to handle indemnity claims from persons suffered from imprisonment but later acquitted, or other damages caused by authorities.\n\nThe Parliamentary Ombudsman was in turn appointed to represent the parliament; to oversee that all public authorities comply with the laws and decrees. The latter had the specific duty to protect the citizens and as a public attorney prosecute unlawful government or actions by authorities and criticise problematic laws, to ensure equality in the court of law, with inspections and handling of complains.\n\nWith growing attention to discrimination issues in the latter part of the 20th century a number of new anti-discriminatory Ombudsmen was appointed, to later be gathered under one roof, with the establishment of the Equality Ombudsman () in 2009.\n\nThe Ombudsman for Children () was established in 1993, and is tasked with matters affecting the rights and interests of children and young people.\n\nThe Director-General of the Swedish Consumer Agency is the designated Consumer Ombudsman ().\n\nNon-government appointed entities are the Pressombudsmannen, supervising compliance with the code of ethics of the Swedish printed media industry, and \"Sameombudsmannen\", an advocate for the rights of the native Sami minority in Sweden, appointed by the Saami Council until 1997.\n\nThe Office of the Human Rights Ombudsman was established in 2009, and receives support from the OSCE. The current Ombudsman is Zarif Alizoda, appointed by President Emomalii Rahmon and approved by Parliament in May 2009. The functions of his office include human rights education, on which it co-operates with other public bodies and NGOs. It also works with a coalition of NGOs on monitoring places of detention.\n\nThe Office of the Ombudsman Thailand (; ) was created in the 1997 Constitution of Thailand or the \"people's constitution\". The name was shortened to the Ombudsmen (; ) by the 2007 Constitution of Thailand. The idea for such an office first appeared in the 1974 constitution. However it was not until 1997 that the concept was acted upon.\n\nOmbudsmen are appointed by the King of Thailand upon the advice of the Senate of Thailand. The ombudsmen investigate complaints by the public against public officials and agencies. They have the power to prosecute, but not to enforce judgments.\n\nOmbudsmen are appointed to a six-year non-renewable term. Thailand's ombudsmen are:\n\n\nThe Ombudsman's Office was created after the constitutional referendum of 2010 was approved. The Ombudsman's Office is responsible for examining and investigating all manner of administrative acts, actions, attitudes and behavior in terms of respect for human rights and freedoms, conformity with the law and fairness and appropriateness within the framework of the character of the Republic of Turkey as enshrined in its Constitution. It performs its functions as part of the Parliament Speaker's Office. The Ombudsman's Office is called the Public Monitoring Institution (KDK) and has an independent and autonomous budget.\n\nThe office of ombudsman, or Commissioner for Human Rights, in Ukraine was instituted in 1998. The first ombudsman was Nina Karpachova until 2012. Valeriya Lutkovska was elected to the office for a five-year term by secret ballot in the Ukrainian Parliament on 24 April 2012. Under Article 55 of the 1996 Constitution, \"Everyone has the right to appeal for the protection of his her rights to the Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights\". Article 101 provides \"The Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights exercises parliamentary control over the observance of constitutional human and citizens’ rights and freedoms.\" The legal basis of the office, which is also Ukraine's national human rights institution, is set out in Law 767/97, which refers to the office as the \"Authorised Human Rights Representative\" of the Parliament.. Lyudmyla Denisova was elected to the office by secret ballot in the Ukrainian Parliament on 15 March 2018.\n\nIn the United Kingdom a post of Ombudsman is attached to the Westminster Parliament, jurisdiction extending to all departments of the central government and other government institutions. The office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration was created in 1967, covering the activities of central government departments. A separate (National) Health Service ombudsman was subsequently created, but this office has to date always been held by the same person and the two offices are usually referred to as the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman. This Ombudsman will usually investigate complaints referred to him or her by a Member of Parliament where there has been evidence of \"maladministration\" having occurred which has resulted in an \"unremedied injustice\". Complaints to the Ombudsman are subject to a \"time bar\" – this means that the Ombudsman may determine a complaint to be out of jurisdiction if too much time has passed between the event or course of events being complained about and the complaint being received by the Ombudsman.\n\nSeparate agencies exist to handle complaints relating to departments and agencies of the devolved administrations. These are the Northern Ireland Ombudsman, the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales and the Scottish Public Services Ombudsman, answerable respectively to the Northern Ireland Assembly, the Welsh Assembly and the Scottish Parliament.\n\nThe Local Government Ombudsman (formally the Commission for Local Government Administration – there are two Commissioners) for England and Wales was created in 1973, and a similar office for Scotland in 1974; since then, a variety of other public and private sector-specific ombudsmen have been created, along with the Northern Ireland Ombudsman.\n\n\n\nMembers of the United States Congress serve as federal-level ombudsmen in their oversight capacity over federal agencies, and employ staff specifically dedicated to legal compliance enforcement and investigations of maladministration on behalf of constituents.\n\nIn 2012 the Uruguayan Ombudsman was appointed. The Ombudsman was created in 2010 as a Parliamentary Officer. The formal name of the institution is Institute for Human Rights and Ombudsman (Instituto para los Derechos Humanos y Defensoria del Pueblo). It is composed of 5 members appointed by the Uruguayan Parliament.\n\nThe office of the Authorized Person of the \"Oliy Majlis\" of the Republic of Uzbekistan for Human Rights, or Ombudsman, was created in 1995, by an initiative of the President of Uzbekistan, but subsequently through legislation enacted in 1997, reinforced by a constitutional reform in 2003 and a new ombudsman statute in 2004. The current Authorised Person, appointed by the Supreme Assembly of Uzbekistan (\"Oliy Majlis\"), is Ulugbek Muhammadiev. The office was one of the first ombudsmen established in the Commonwealth of Independent States, and receives technical support from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.\n\nIn the science fiction television series \"Babylon 5\", the arbiters aboard space station \"Babylon 5\" who preside over cases stemming from public complaints are referred to as \"ombuds\" (this is both the singular and plural designation), the gender-neutral title for an ombudsman. Just as with their modern European counterparts, the ombuds only preside over public cases, including robbery, assault, and murder, and do not interpret law as a regular judiciary does.\n\nOpus the penguin was an ombudsman in the strip Bloom County until he was fired.\n\nJohn Perry, the protagonist of \"The Last Colony\", written by John Scalzi starts off the novel as an ombudsman for a newly settled human colony.\n\nThe webcomic \"PvP\" ran a story arc starting at the beginning of March 2009 parodying the comic series and movie \"Watchmen\" called \"The Ombudsmen.\"\n\nThe Fox News parody show, Red Eye with Greg Gutfeld, meets three times per episode with \"TV's Andy Levy, Ombudsman\"...\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36652012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36652012", "title": "One share, one vote", "text": "One share, one vote\n\nOne share, one vote is a standard found in corporate law and corporate governance, which suggests that each person who invests money in a company has one vote per share of the company they own, equally with other shareholders. Often, shares with one vote each are referred to as common stock. Most systems of corporate law discourage shares without votes unless they have preferential dividends or liquidation rights, and shares with multiple voting rights are discouraged altogether so as to prevent the concentration of corporate power.\n\n\nHistorically, more corporations followed the rule of one person, one vote, so that the corporate power of wealthy investors was capped. This practice declined over the late 19th century. During the 1920s and 1930s, the practice of multiple voting shares, and voteless shares, without any preferential rights became widespread, resulting in the disenfranchisement of many ordinary investors. This was halted by stock exchange regulation and corporate law amendments in most countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "23727901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23727901", "title": "Parity (law)", "text": "Parity (law)\n\nPrinciple of parity is a legal concept used in codecision procedure disabling one European institution from making decision without obtaining assent of the other institution engaged in the procedure.\n\n"}
{"id": "298961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298961", "title": "Passing off", "text": "Passing off\n\nIn common law countries such as England, Australia and New Zealand, passing off is a common law tort which can be used to enforce unregistered trade mark rights. The tort of passing off protects the goodwill of a trader from misrepresentation.\n\nThe law of passing off prevents one trader from misrepresenting goods or services as being the goods and services of another, and also prevents a trader from holding out his or her goods or services as having some association or connection with another when this is not true.\n\nA cause of action for passing off is a form of intellectual property enforcement against the unauthorised use of a get-up (the whole external appearance or look-and-feel of a product, including any marks or other indicia used) which is considered to be similar to that of another party's product, including any registered or unregistered trademarks. Passing off is of particular significance where an action for trade mark infringement based on a registered trade mark is unlikely to be successful (due to the differences between the registered trade mark and the unregistered mark). Passing off is a common law cause of action, whereas statutory law such as the United Kingdom Trade Marks Act 1994 provides for enforcement of registered trademarks through infringement proceedings.\n\nPassing off and the law of registered trade marks deal with overlapping factual situations, but deal with them in different ways. Passing off does not confer monopoly rights to any names, marks, get-up or other indicia. It does not recognize them as property in its own right.\n\nInstead, the law of passing off is designed to prevent misrepresentation in the course of trade to the public, for example, that there is some sort of association between the businesses of two traders.\n\nOne recent example of its application by the United Kingdom Intellectual Property Office can be found in a Trade Mark Opposition Decision in 2001. It was held that two brands of confectionery both named \"Refreshers\", one made by Swizzels Matlow and one by Trebor Bassett, which had coexisted since the 1930s, would deceive a consumer as to their source for some items but not for others. Both coexist in the marketplace.\n\nWhen coming to Court, there are three elements, often referred to as the Classic Trinity, in the tort which must be fulfilled. In \"Reckitt & Colman Products Ltd v Borden Inc,\" Lord Oliver reduced the five guidelines laid out by Lord Diplock in \"Erven Warnink v. Townend & Sons Ltd.\" (the \"Advocaat Case\") to three elements:\n\n\nThe plaintiff has the burden of proving goodwill in its goods or services, get-up of goods, brand, mark or the thing standing for itself.\n\nThe plaintiff also has the burden of proof to show false representation (intentional or otherwise) to the public to have them believe that goods/services of the defendant are that of the Plaintiff. There must be some connection between the plaintiff's and defendant's goods, services or trade. They must show likelihood or actual deception or confusion by the public. Deception or confusion, however, does not consider a \"moron in a hurry\".\n\nIt is the Court's duty to decide similarity or identity of the marks, goods or services. The criteria are often: aural, visual and conceptual similarity (often applied in trademark infringement cases).\n\nFor the element of damage to goodwill, there may be a loss or diversion of trade or dilution of goodwill. The plaintiff need not prove actual or special damage; real and tangible probability of damage is sufficient. This damage should however be reasonably foreseeable. It is not enough just to show likelihood or actual deception or confusion.\n\nUltimately, the Court must use common sense in determining the case, based on evidence and judicial discretion, and not witnesses.\n\nDisclaimers may not be enough to avoid passing off or cause of action.\n\nOne of the instances where passing off is actionable is the extended form of passing off, where a misrepresentation as to the particular \"quality\" of a product or service causes harm to another's goodwill. An example of this is \"Erven Warnink v. Townend & Sons Ltd.\", in which the makers of advocaat sued a manufacturer of a drink similar but not identical to advocaat, but which was successfully marketed as being advocaat.\n\nThe extended form of passing off is used by celebrities as a means of enforcing their personality rights in common law jurisdictions. Common law jurisdictions (with the exception of Jamaica) do not recognise personality rights as rights of property. Accordingly, celebrities whose images or names have been used can successfully sue if there is a representation that a product or service is being endorsed or sponsored by them or that the use of their likenesses was authorised when this is not true.\n\nAnother variety, somewhat rarer is so-called 'reverse passing off'. This occurs where a trader markets another's product or service as being his own (see John Roberts Powers School v Tessensohn [1995] FSR 947). It is usually covered by the same court rulings as straight passing off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2925007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2925007", "title": "Queen's Regulations and Orders for the Canadian Forces", "text": "Queen's Regulations and Orders for the Canadian Forces\n\nThe Queen's Regulations and Orders for the Canadian Forces (QR&O) are regulations having the force of law for the governance of the Canadian Forces. They are regarded as the primary document of military law and regulations in Canada – aside from the National Defence Act.\n\nThe QR&O are issued under the authority of Section 12 of the National Defence Act (NDA), the governing statute of the Canadian Forces. Section 12 provides the Governor in Council (i.e., the Governor-General acting on the advice of Cabinet) and the Minister of National Defence with the power to make \"regulations\" for the \"organization, training, discipline, efficiency, administration, and government of the Forces\", so long as such regulations are not inconsistent with the NDA, common-law principles of natural justice, the Canadian Bill of Rights or the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms; it also permits the Treasury Board to make regulations concerning pay, allowances, forfeitures, deductions, etc.\n\nQR&O 1.23 further authorizes the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) to issue \"orders\" and instructions \"not inconsistent with the National Defence Act or with any regulations made by the Governor in Council, the Treasury Board or the Minister\" in the discharge of his duties or in implementation/explanation of regulations.\n\nEach regulation or order within the QR&O is, as noted above, issued under the authority of the Governor in Council, the Minister, Treasury Board, or CDS; the issuing authority is indicated by a letter in parentheses following each regulation or order, namely (G), (M), (T), and (C), respectively.\n\nThe QR&O is divided into four volumes, containing the indicated chapters:\n\nVolume I contains the most wide-ranging subject matter. It contains regulations and orders for the CF to cover almost every aspect of military life, from enrolment to release, and all items in between. It comprises the following chapters:\n\nVolume II amplifies the Code of Service Discipline and is the authoritative manual for military law in Canada. It contains the regulations governing the commission of service offences (ranging from treason to negligent discharges) and the prosecution and punishment thereof, from summary trials to the various kinds of court-martial. It comprises the following chapters:\n\nVolume III lays out the framework of regulations that govern the financial issues of the CF, including pay, allotments, deductions, expenses, etc. It comprises the following chapters:\n\nVolume IV contains supplementary rules and regulations. It also contains the texts of the NDA, the Security of Information Act, and other applicable Acts of Parliament. It comprises the following appendices:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4275950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4275950", "title": "R v Dyment", "text": "R v Dyment\n\nR v Dyment, [1988] 2 S.C.R. 417 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision on the constitutional right to privacy under section 8 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\".\n\nIn April 1982, Brandon Dyment was in an auto accident on a highway. A doctor soon came to the scene, and Dyment was taken to the hospital by a Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officer. At the hospital a blood sample was taken from him for medical purposes while unconscious. When Dyment woke up, and while still suffering from a concussion from the accident, he told the doctor that he had been drinking and had taken antihistamine tablets. The doctor talked with a RCMP officer and handed over the blood sample. Police analysis of the blood found that the alcohol level was above the legal limit and so Dyment was charged with being in care or control of a motor vehicle having consumed alcohol in such quantity that the proportion in his blood exceeded 80 milligrams of alcohol in 100 milliliters of blood contrary to section 236 of the Criminal Code.\n\nAt trial, Dyment was convicted.\n\nThe issue before the Supreme Court was whether:\n\nThe Supreme Court upheld the lower court decision that the RCMP's seizing of blood taken for medical purposes was a violation of section 8 of the \"Charter\" and should be excluded under section 24(2).\n\nLa Forest, writing concurring reasons, examined the scope of protection provided by section 8. He found that underlying section 8 is a right to privacy, which he described as a constitutionally protected value, stating that:\n\n"}
{"id": "5858078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5858078", "title": "Reconstruction Amendments", "text": "Reconstruction Amendments\n\nThe Reconstruction Amendments are the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth amendments to the United States Constitution, adopted between 1865 and 1870, the five years immediately following the Civil War. The last time the Constitution had been amended was with the Twelfth Amendment more than 60 years earlier in 1804. The Reconstruction amendments were important in implementing the Reconstruction of the American South after the war. Their proponents saw them as transforming the United States from a country that was (in Abraham Lincoln's words) \"half slave and half free\" to one in which the constitutionally guaranteed \"blessings of liberty\" would be extended to the entire populace, including the former slaves and their descendants.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment (proposed in 1864 and ratified in 1865) abolished slavery and involuntary servitude, except for those duly convicted of a crime. The Fourteenth Amendment (proposed in 1866 and ratified in 1868) addresses citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws for all persons. The Fifteenth Amendment (proposed in 1869 and ratified in 1870) prohibits discrimination in voting rights of citizens on the basis of \"race, color, or previous condition of servitude\". All races, regardless of prior slavery, could vote in some states of the early United States, such as New Jersey, provided that they could meet other requirements, such as property ownership.\n\nThese amendments were intended to guarantee freedom to former slaves and to establish and prevent discrimination in certain civil rights to former slaves and all citizens of the United States. The promise of these amendments was eroded by state laws and federal court decisions over the course of the 19th century. In 1876 and later, some states passed Jim Crow laws that limited the rights of African-Americans. Important Supreme Court decisions that undermined these amendments were the \"Slaughter-House Cases\" in 1873, which prevented rights guaranteed under the Fourteenth Amendment's privileges or immunities clause from being extended to rights under state law; and \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" in 1896 which originated the phrase \"separate but equal\" and gave federal approval to Jim Crow laws. The full benefits of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth amendments were not realized until the Supreme Court decision in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" in 1954 and laws such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.\n\nThe Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution abolished slavery and involuntary servitude, except as punishment for a crime. It was passed by the U.S. Senate on April 8, 1864, and, after one unsuccessful vote and extensive legislative maneuvering by the Lincoln administration, the House followed suit on January 31, 1865. The measure was swiftly ratified by all but three Union states (the exceptions were Delaware, New Jersey, and Kentucky), and by a sufficient number of border and \"reconstructed\" Southern states, to be ratified by December 6, 1865. On December 18, 1865, Secretary of State William H. Seward proclaimed it to have been incorporated into the federal Constitution. It became part of the Constitution 61 years after the Twelfth Amendment. This is the longest interval between constitutional amendments to date.\n\nSlavery had been tacitly enshrined in the original Constitution through provisions such as Article I, Section 2, Clause 3, commonly known as the Three-Fifths Compromise, which detailed how each state's total slave population would be factored into its total population count for the purposes of apportioning seats in the United States House of Representatives and direct taxes among the states. Although many slaves had been declared free by Lincoln's 1863 Emancipation Proclamation, their legal status after the Civil War was uncertain.\nThe Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution was proposed by Congress on June 13, 1866. By July 9, 1868, it had received ratifications by the legislatures of the required number of states in order to officially become the Fourteenth Amendment. On July 20, 1868, Secretary of State William Seward certified that it had been ratified and added to the federal Constitution. The amendment addresses citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws, and was proposed in response to issues related to treatment of freedmen following the war. The amendment was bitterly contested, particularly by Southern states, which were forced to ratify it in order to return their delegations to Congress. The Fourteenth Amendment, particularly its first section, is one of the most litigated parts of the Constitution, forming the basis for landmark decisions such as \"Roe v. Wade\" (1973), regarding abortion, and \"Bush v. Gore\" (2000), regarding the 2000 presidential election.\n\nThe second, third, and fourth sections of the amendment are seldom, if ever, litigated. The fifth section gives Congress enforcement power. The amendment's first section includes several clauses: the Citizenship Clause, Privileges or Immunities Clause, Due Process Clause, and Equal Protection Clause. The Citizenship Clause provides a broad definition of citizenship, overruling the Supreme Court's decision in \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" (1857), which had held that Americans descended from Africans could not be citizens of the United States. The Privileges or Immunities Clause has been interpreted in such a way that it does very little. While \"Section 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment reduces congressional representation for states that deny suffrage on racial grounds,\" it was not enforced after southern states disfranchised blacks in the late 19th and early 20th centuries (see below, at Fifteenth Amendment). While Northern Congressmen in 1900 raised objections to the inequities of southern states being apportioned seats based on total populations when they excluded blacks, Southern Democratic Party representatives formed such a powerful block that opponents could not gain approval for change of apportionment.\n\nThe Due Process Clause prohibits state and local government officials from depriving persons of life, liberty, or property without legislative authorization. This clause has also been used by the federal judiciary to make most of the Bill of Rights applicable to the states, as well as to recognize substantive and procedural requirements that state laws must satisfy.\n\nThe Equal Protection Clause requires each state to provide equal protection under the law to all people within its jurisdiction. This clause was the basis for the US Supreme Court's ruling in \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954), that racial segregation in public schools was unconstitutional, and its prohibition of laws against interracial marriage, in its ruling in \"Loving v. Virginia\" (1967).\n\nThis amendment was the foundation of elements of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (this also relied on the 15th Amendment), legislation to end legal segregation in the states and to provide for oversight and enforcement by the federal government of citizens' rights to vote without discrimination. It has also been referred to for many other court decisions rejecting unnecessary discrimination against people belonging to various groups.\n\nThe Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal and state governments from denying a citizen the right to vote based on that citizen's \"race, color, or previous condition of servitude\". It was ratified on February 3, 1870, as the third and last of the Reconstruction Amendments.\n\nBy 1869, amendments had been passed to abolish slavery and provide citizenship and equal protection under the laws, but the narrow election of Ulysses S. Grant to the presidency in 1868 convinced a majority of Republicans that protecting the franchise of black voters was important for the party's future. After rejecting more sweeping versions of a suffrage amendment, Congress proposed a compromise amendment banning franchise restrictions on the basis of race, color, or previous servitude on February 26, 1869. The amendment survived a difficult ratification fight and was adopted on March 30, 1870. After blacks gained the vote, the Ku Klux Klan directed some of their attacks to disrupt their political meetings and intimidate them at the polls, to suppress black participation. In the mid-1870s, there was a rise in new insurgent groups, such as the Red Shirts and White League, who acted on behalf of the Democratic Party to violently suppress black voting. While white Democrats regained power in southern state legislatures, through the 1880s and early 1890s, numerous blacks continued to be elected to local offices in many states, as well as to Congress as late as 1894.\n\nFrom 1890 to 1910, all the states of the former Confederacy passed new constitutions and other laws that incorporated methods to disfranchise blacks, such as poll taxes, residency rules, and literacy tests administered by white staff, sometimes with exemptions for whites via grandfather clauses. When challenges reached the Supreme Court, it interpreted the amendment narrowly, ruling based on the stated intent of the laws rather than their practical effect. The results in voter suppression were dramatic, as voter rolls fells: nearly all blacks, as well as tens of thousands of poor whites in Alabama and other states, were forced off the voter registration rolls and out of the political system, effectively excluding millions of people from representation. Democratic state legislatures passed racial segregation laws for public facilities and other types of Jim Crow restrictions. During this period of political struggle, the rate of lynchings in the South reached an all-time high.\n\nIn the twentieth century, the Court interpreted the amendment more broadly, striking down grandfather clauses in \"Guinn v. United States\" (1915). It took a quarter century to finally dismantle the white primary system in the \"Texas primary cases\" (1927–1953). With the South having become a one-party region after the disfranchisement of blacks, Democratic Party primaries were the only competitive contests in the states. But Southern states reacted rapidly to Supreme Court decisions, often devising new ways to continue to exclude blacks from voter rolls and voting; most blacks in the South did not gain the ability to vote until after passage of the mid-1960s federal civil rights legislation and beginning of federal oversight of voter registration and district boundaries. The Twenty-fourth Amendment (1964) forbade the requirement for poll taxes in federal elections; by this time five of the eleven southern states continued to require such taxes. Together with the US Supreme Court ruling in \"Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections\" (1966), which forbade requiring poll taxes in state elections, blacks regained the opportunity to participate in the American political system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10358366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10358366", "title": "Robert Edwards (pirate)", "text": "Robert Edwards (pirate)\n\nRobert Edwards (died 1762) was a Welsh buccaneer given of largely unsettled Manhattan by Queen Anne of the Kingdom of Great Britain for his services in disrupting Spanish sea lanes. After Edwards' death, the property passed in 1877, via a 99-year lease, to the brothers John and George Cruger, with the understanding that it would revert to his heirs after the lease expired. Apparently, this never happened. It is alleged that the Crugers were wardens of Trinity Church, an Episcopal Church—today, one of New York City's biggest land owners. Maybe everything was tangled in a muddle of colonial Manhattan land giveaways. But, according to family lore, the whole tract wound up in Trinity's hands.\n\nTrinity indeed got a large slice of the land that seems to be described in the Edwards family account. But the church got the last of the ground in 1705, all of it directly from Queen Anne, according to a church pamphlet published in 1955, at a time when Trinity was bedeviled by Edwards family claims.\n\nThe legend has since proved persistent, and indeed some high-profile claims of rightful ownership to the fortune, now estimated to be worth around 650 billion dollars. The most recent of these was a claim from a Cleoma Foore, whose research led to the foundation of the 'Pennsylvania Association of Edwards Heirs', a body funded by donations in a bid to finally prove that they were entitled to the vast fortune through direct ancestry. This fund attracted around $1.5m at its peak, but no firm evidence was forthcoming. Indeed, the end result was an embezzlement case tried at the federal court in Pittsburgh before Chief Judge Donald E. Ziegler in 1999.\n\nMore recently, this ancient claim has been the subject of many multimedia productions including books, TV shows and radio reports and a 1998 primetime UK TV show called 'Find a Fortune' and hosted by Carol Vorderman amongst others, attempting to shed new light on the topic.\n\nA document held at the Glamorgan Record Office in Cardiff, Wales, entitled \"THE EDWARDS MILLIONS\" outlines the case as it stood in 2002, with claims and counter claims further muddying the issue. Tales of unscrupulous lawyers and fraudulent claims have also hampered attempts by amateur researchers to get to the truth. Finally, the introduction of the 'Statute of Limitations' in NY State, which sets a time limit for all claims, to be commenced within fifteen years of the expiration of a lease, appears to have all but buried the claim with the death of Robert Edwards himself.\n\nThe only document that could prove the matter would be the original of the 99-year lease signed over to the brothers Cruger, but that would now be statute barred.\n\n"}
{"id": "3895702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3895702", "title": "Shaliah", "text": "Shaliah\n\nA shaliaḥ (, ; pl. , \"sheliḥim\" or \"sheliah\" in Halakha is a Jewish legal emissary or agent. Accordingly, a shaliaḥ performs an act of legal significance for the benefit of the sender, as opposed to him or herself. It is a comparable Hebrew term of the Greek word ἀπόστολος (\"apostolos\", whence the English \"apostle\").\n\nThe term does not occur in the Bible. The first \"shaliaḥ\" inferred in the Bible is the unnamed servant in Genesis 24 who was sent by Abraham to find a wife for Isaac. Although the term is not used and the servant is not named, later rabbinical interpretation interprets this as Eliezer.\n\nThe Talmud, or Oral Torah, in tractate Gittin learns from that any Jewish male or female may appoint an agent, as can servants and maidservants working under a Jew's care. A shaliaḥ however, may only be appointed for a mitzvah or other halakhic Jewish legal affairs that he or she is obligated in.\n\n\"Mitzvot\" that are performed on one's own body, such as wearing \"tefillin\", cannot be performed on one's own behalf by a shaliah.\n\nMany of the halakhic Jewish legal affairs that may be performed through a shaliah:\n\n"}
{"id": "272778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272778", "title": "Shipwreck", "text": "Shipwreck\n\nA shipwreck is the remains of a ship that has wrecked, which are found either beached on land or sunken to the bottom of a body of water. Shipwrecking may be deliberate or accidental. In January 1999, Angela Croome estimated that there have been about three million shipwrecks worldwide (an estimate rapidly endorsed by UNESCO and other organizations).\n\nHistoric wrecks are attractive to maritime archaeologists because they preserve historical information: for example, studying the wreck of revealed information about seafaring, warfare, and life in the 16th century. Military wrecks, caused by a skirmish at sea, are studied to find details about the historic event; they reveal much about the battle that occurred. Discoveries of treasure ships, often from the period of European colonisation, which sank in remote locations leaving few living witnesses, such as , do occur as well.\nSome contemporary wrecks, such as the oil tankers \"Prestige\" or , are of interest primarily because of their potential harm to the environment. Other contemporary wrecks are scuttled in order to spur reef growth, such as and \"Ocean Freeze\". Wrecks like \"Adolphus Busch\" and historic wrecks such as are of interest to recreational divers that dive to shipwrecks because they are interesting to explore, provide large habitats for many types of marine life, and have an interesting history.\n\nWell known shipwrecks include the catastrophic , , , , , , or . There are also thousands of wrecks that were not lost at sea but have been abandoned or sunk. These abandoned, or derelict ships are typically smaller craft, such as fishing vessels. They may pose a hazard to navigation and may be removed by port authorities.\n\nPoor design, improperly stowed cargo, navigation and other human errors leading to collisions (with another ship, the shoreline, an iceberg, etc.), bad weather, fire, and other causes can lead to accidental sinkings. Intentional reasons for sinking a ship include forming an artificial reef; due to warfare, piracy, mutiny or sabotage; as part of target practice; or to remove a menace to navigation. A ship can be also used as breakwater structure.\n\nMany factors determine the state of preservation of a wreck:\n\nThe above-mentioned, especially the stratification (silt/sand sediments piled up on the shipwrecks) and the damages caused by marine creatures is better described as \"stratification and contamination\" of shipwrecks. The stratification not only creates another challenge for marine archaeology but also a challenge to its primary state, the state that it had when it sank.\n\nStratification includes several different types of sand and silt, as well as tumulus and encrustations. These \"sediments\" are tightly linked to the type of currents, depth, and the type of water (salinity, pH, etc.), which implies any chemical reactions that would lead to affecting the hypothetical/possible main cargo (such as wine, olive oil, spices, etc.).\n\nBesides this geological phenomenon, wrecks also face the damage of marine creatures that create a home out of them; primarily being octopuses and crustaceans. These creatures affect the primary state because they move, or break, any parts of the shipwreck that are in their way, thereby affecting the original condition of amphorae, for example, or any other hollow places. Finally, in addition to the slight or severe destruction marine animals can create, there are also \"external\" contaminants, such as modern-day commodities, or contemporary pollution in bodies of water, that as well severely affect shipwrecks by changing the chemical structures, or even destroying or devastating even more of what is left of a specific ship.\n\nAll the above offers great challenges to the marine archaeologist when attempting to bind the pieces of a certain shipwreck together. Despite these challenges, if the information retrieved does not appear to be sufficient, or a poor preservation is achieved, authors like J.A. Parker claim that it is the historical value of the shipwreck that counts as well as any slight piece of information or evidence that is acquired.\n\nExposed wooden components decay quickly. Often the only wooden parts of ships that remain after a century are those that were buried in silt or sand soon after the sinking. An example of this is \"Mary Rose\".\n\nSteel and iron, depending on their thickness, may retain the ship's structure for decades. As corrosion takes place, sometimes helped by tides and weather, the structure collapses. Thick ferrous objects such as cannons, steam boilers or the pressure vessel of a submarine often survive well underwater in spite of corrosion.\n\nPropellers, condensers, hinges and port holes were often made from non-ferrous metals such as brass and phosphor bronze, which do not corrode easily.\n\nShipwrecks in some freshwater lakes, such as the Great Lakes of North America, have remained intact with little degradation. In some sea areas, most notably in Gulf of Bothnia and Gulf of Finland, salinity is very low, and centuries-old wrecks have been preserved in reasonable condition. However, bacteria found in fresh water cause the wood on ships to rot more quickly than in seawater unless it is deprived of oxygen. Two shipwrecks, and , have been at the bottom of Lake Ontario since they sunk during a violent storm on August 8, 1813, during the War of 1812. They are in \"remarkably good\" condition.\n\nWrecks typically decay rapidly when in seawater. There are several reasons for this:\n\nAn important factor in the condition of the wreck is the level of destruction at the time of the loss or shortly afterwards due to the nature of the loss, salvage or later demolition.\n\nExamples of severe destruction at the time of loss are:\n\nAfter the loss, the vessel's owners may attempt to salvage valuable parts of the ship and its cargo. This operation can cause further damage.\n\nShipwrecks in shallow water near busy shipping lanes are often demolished or removed to reduce the danger to other vessels. On charts, some wreck symbols have a line under the symbol with a depth mark, which indicates the water depth above the wreck.\n\nOn the seabed, wrecks are slowly broken up by the forces of wave action caused by the weather and currents caused by tides. Also more highly oxygenated water, which promotes corrosion, reduces the strength of ferrous structural materials of the ship. Deeper wrecks are likely to be protected by less exposure to water movement and by lower levels of oxygen in water.\n\nExtreme cold (such as in a glacial-fed lake, Arctic waters, the Great Lakes, etc.) slow the degradation of organic ship materials. Decay, corrosion and marine encrustation are inhibited or largely absent in cold waters.\n\nOften, attempts are made to salvage shipwrecks, particularly those recently wrecked, to recover the whole or part of the ship, its cargo, or its equipment. An example was the salvage of the scuttled German High Seas Fleet at Scapa Flow in the 1920s and 1930s. The unauthorized salvage of wrecks is called wrecking.\n\nShipwreck law determines important legal questions regarding wrecks, perhaps the most important question being the question of ownership. Legally wrecks are divided into \"wreccum maris\" (material washed ashore after a shipwreck) and \"adventurae maris\" (material still at sea), which are treated differently by some, but not all, legal systems.\n\nWrecks are often considered separately from their cargo. For example, in the British case of \"Lusitania\" [1986] QB 384 it was accepted that the remains of the vessel itself were owned by the insurance underwriters who had paid out on the vessel as a total loss by virtue of the law of subrogation (who subsequently sold their rights), but that the property aboard the wreck still belonged to its original owners or their heirs.\n\nMilitary wrecks, however, remain under the jurisdiction–and hence protection–of the government that lost the ship, or that government's successor. Hence, a German U-boat from World War II still technically belongs to the German government, although the Third Reich (the government of the time) is long-defunct. Many military wrecks are also protected by virtue of there being war graves.\n\nHowever, many legal systems allow the rights of salvors to override the rights of the original owners of a wreck or its cargo. As a general rule, non-historic civilian shipwrecks are considered fair game for salvage. Under international maritime law, for shipwrecks of a certain age, the original owner may have lost all claim to the cargo. Anyone who finds the wreck can then file a salvage claim on it and place a lien on the vessel, and subsequently mount a salvage operation (see Finders, keepers). The State of North Carolina questionably claims \"all photographs, video recordings, or other documentary materials of a derelict vessel or shipwreck or its contents, relics, artifacts, or historic materials in the custody of any agency of North Carolina government or its subdivisions\" to be its property.\n\nSome countries assert claims to all wrecks within their territorial waters, irrespective of the interest of the original owner or the salvor. Wartime wrecks have different legal considerations, as they are often considered prizes of war, and therefore owned by the navy that sank them.\nSome legal systems regard a wreck and its cargo to be abandoned if no attempt is made to salvage them within a certain period of time. English law has usually resisted this notion (encouraged by an extremely large maritime insurance industry, which asserts claims in respect of shipwrecks which it has paid claims on), but it has been accepted to a greater or lesser degree in an Australian case and in a Norwegian case.\n\nThe American courts have been inconsistent between states and at Federal level. Under Danish law, all shipwrecks over 150 years old belong to the state if no owner can be found. In Spain, wrecks vest in the state if not salvaged within 3 years. In Finland, all property on board shipwrecks over 100 years old vests in the state.\n\nThe British Protection of Wrecks Act, enacted to protect historic wrecks, controls access to wrecks such as Cattewater Wreck which can only be visited or investigated under licence. The British Protection of Military Remains Act 1986 also restricts access to wrecks which are sensitive as war graves. The Protection of Military Remains Act in some cases creates a blanket ban on all diving; for other wrecks divers may visit provided they do not touch, interfere with or penetrate the wreck. In the United States, shipwrecks in state waters are regulated by the Abandoned Shipwrecks Act of 1987. This act is much more lenient in allowing more open access to the shipwrecks.\n\nFollowing the beaching of , as a result of severe damage incurred during European storm Kyrill, there was confusion in the press and by the authorities about whether people could be prevented from helping themselves to the flotsam which was washed up on the beaches at Branscombe. Many people took advantage of the confusion and helped themselves to the cargo. This included many BMW motorbikes and empty wine casks as well as bags of disposable nappies (diapers). The legal position under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 is that any such finds and recovery must be reported within 28 days to the Receiver of Wreck. Failure to do so is an offence under the Merchant Shipping Act and can result in a criminal record for theft by finding. After several days, the police and Receiver of Wreck, in conjunction with the landowner and the contracted salvors, established a cordon to prevent access to the beach. A similar situation occurred after the wreck of in 1997.\n\nHistoric wrecks (often but not always defined as being more than 50 years of age) are often protected from pillaging and looting through national laws protecting cultural heritage. Internationally they may be protected by a State ratifying the Unesco Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. In this case pillaging is not allowed. One such example is which is undergoing archaeological recovery by the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources near Beaufort Inlet, NC. \n\nAn important international convention aiming at the protection of underwater cultural heritage (including shipwrecks) is the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage.\nThe 2001 UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage represents the international community's response to the increasing looting and destruction of underwater cultural heritage. It forms part of a group of UNESCO standard setting instruments regarding the domain of cultural heritage, encompassing seven conventions adopted by UNESCO Member States, which constitute a coherent and complementary body guaranteeing a complete protection of all forms of cultural heritage.\n\nThe UNESCO 2001 Convention is an international treaty aimed exclusively at the protection of underwater cultural heritage and the facilitation of international cooperation in this regard. It does not change sovereignty rights of States or regulate the ownership of wrecks or submerged ruins.\n\nIn 2011, the most valuable cargo of a sunken shipwreck was identified near the western edge of the Celtic Sea. This World War II era sinking of led to a treasure almost three miles deep.\n\nA U.S. federal court and a panel from the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit have upheld the Spanish claim to the contents of the ship ; Spain took control of the treasure in February 2012. A very small number of coins and effects recovered from the ship were deposited in Gibraltar, because they showed clear signs coherent with an internal explosion on the ship and thus confirmed Spanish claims to the wreck being that of the Nuestra Señora de las Mercedes. They were not returned to Spain until 2013, when a court finally ordered Odyssey Marine to return the missing pieces.\n\nArchaeologist Valerios Stais discovered one of the most notable instruments of time keeping and prediction of celestial events off the coast of the Greek island Antikythera On May 17, 1902. The device, known as the Antikythera Mechanism is perhaps the earliest account of what would be known as today as an analog computer and the technology it encompasses predates any other recorded description by nearly hundreds and thousands of years.\n\n\nMuckenhaupt PG, \"Treasure Pirates Shipwrecks Gold and Silver\", 2018, Amazon\n\n"}
{"id": "5383973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5383973", "title": "The Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn", "text": "The Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn\n\nThe Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn (OSOGD) is an esoteric community of magical practitioners, many of whom come from pagan backgrounds. It is an initiatory teaching Order that draws upon the knowledge, experience, practices and spirit of the system of magical training and attainment developed by the original Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.\n\nThe OSOGD was founded by Sam Webster in 2002 and based on the principles of the open-source software movement. The organization grew out of a series of workshops on ceremonial magic held by Webster in 2001.\n\nAccording to Sam Webster,\nAccording to \"The Manifesto of the Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn\", the Order has undertaken to revise the teachings of the original Victorian era Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn system to work more effectively in the 21st century. This redaction of the original rituals has taken on the aspect of a number of principles, listed in the Manifesto as Open Source Magick, New Aeon, Freedom of Information, Thelema, Duty, Universalism, and Form and Function.\n\nIn temple work, the OSOGD uses Egyptian, Enochian and Thelemic godforms in preference to the Judeo-Christian Archangels typical of the original Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. According to the Manifesto, OSOGD teaches \"a progressively tiered system of spiritual development designed to invoke the Higher or Divine Genius latent in every human being.\"\n\nTo actually join the Order, a person must have regular access to its Lodge, which is located in the San Francisco Bay Area. The Order does not conduct distance initiations, and requires that all initiates attend initiation rituals in person.\n\nThe Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn draws heavily from Eastern sources, Thelema, Paganism, and the works of Aleister Crowley.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9802192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9802192", "title": "Treaty of Elche", "text": "Treaty of Elche\n\nThe Treaty of Elche was an agreement between the Crowns of Castile and Aragon signed in 1305. The treaty revised the borders put down by the Treaty of Torrellas in the previous year. The borders under dispute were those created by the conquests of James II of Aragon in Murcia between 1296 and 1300. Murcia was (before 1296) a dependency of Castile. The chief exchange effected by the new treaty of Elche was the important port city of Cartagena, which returned to Castile.\n\n"}
{"id": "1090256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1090256", "title": "Trespass to chattels", "text": "Trespass to chattels\n\nTrespass to chattels is a tort whereby the infringing party has intentionally (or, in Australia, negligently) interfered with another person's lawful possession of a chattel (movable personal property). The interference can be any physical contact with the chattel in a quantifiable way, or any dispossession of the chattel (whether by taking it, destroying it, or barring the owner's access to it). As opposed to the greater wrong of conversion, trespass to chattels is argued to be actionable \"per se\".\n\nThe origin of the concept comes from the original writ of trespass \"de bonis asportatis\". As in most other forms of trespass, remedy can only be obtained once it is proven that there was direct interference regardless of damage being done, and the infringing party has failed to disprove either negligence or intent.\n\nIn some common-law countries such as the United States and Canada, a remedy for trespass to chattels can only be obtained if the direct interference was sufficiently substantial to amount to dispossession, or alternatively where there had been an injury proximately related to the chattel. (See Restatement (Second) of Torts, 1965.)\n\nThe Restatement (Second) of Torts § 217 defines trespass to chattels as \"intentionally… dispossessing another of the chattel, or using or intermeddling with a chattel in the possession of another.\" Harm to personal property or diminution of its quality, condition or value as a result of a defendant's use can also result in liability under § 218(b) of the Restatement. \n\nCertain specific circumstances may lend themselves to liability for the action. The Restatement (Second) of Torts § 218 states further that:\n\nOne who commits a trespass to a chattel is subject to liability to the possessor of the chattel if, but only if,\nThe trespass to chattels cause of action, frequently asserted in recent years against Internet advertisers and email spammers, is often included in complaints against spyware companies. These electronic messaging cases, and their progeny, which have cropped up over the last decade, will typically turn on the situations described in (b) or (d), and, as detailed below, the question of harm caused is a big issue.\n\nIn sum, the basic elements of a claim of trespass to chattels are: 1) the lack of the plaintiff's consent to the trespass, 2) interference or intermeddling with possessory interest, and 3) the intentionality of the defendant's actions. Actual damage is not necessarily a required element of a trespass to chattels claim.\n\n\n\n\nDamages from a trespass claim are limited to the actual harm sustained by the plaintiff (which can include economic loss consequent on the trespass - e.g. loss of profit on a damaged chattel). In cases of dispossession, the plaintiff is always entitled to damages if they can prove the dispossession occurred, even if no quantifiable harm can be proven.\n\nA related tort is conversion, which involves an exercise of control over another's chattel justifying restitution of the chattel's full value. Some actions constitute trespass and conversion; in these cases, a plaintiff must choose which claim to make based on what amount of damages they seek to recover.\n\nThe common law tort of trespass to chattels has been invoked in the modern context of electronic communications to combat the proliferation of unsolicited bulk email, commonly known as spam. In addition, several companies have successfully used the tort to block certain people, usually competitors, from accessing their servers. Though courts initially endorsed a broad application of this legal theory in the electronic context, more recently other jurists have narrowed its scope. As trespass to chattels is extended further to computer networks, some fear that plaintiffs are using this cause of action to quash fair competition and to deter the exercise of free speech; consequently, critics call for the limitation of the tort to instances where the plaintiff can demonstrate actual damages.\n\nThe trespass to chattels tort punishes anyone who substantially interferes with the use of another's personal property, or chattels. Plaintiffs must show that the offender had intentional physical contact with the chattel and that the contact caused some substantial interference or damage. The courts that imported this common law doctrine into the digital world reasoned that electrical signals traveling across networks and through proprietary servers may constitute the contact necessary to support a trespass claim. Applying this common law action to computer networks, plaintiffs must first prove that they received some type of electronic communication (typically bulk e-mail or spam) that the defendant intentionally sent to interfere with the plaintiff's interest in his or her property and second that this communication caused a quantifiable harm to their tangible property, such as impaired functioning of the computer, network or server.\n\nIn the late 1990s, when the World Wide Web was in its infancy, courts were more receptive to extending the trespass to chattels tort to the electronic context. In \"CompuServe Inc. v. Cyber Promotions, Inc.\", a 1997 case that was the first to extend the trespass theory to computer networks, a federal district court held that a marketing company's mass mailing of a high volume of unsolicited advertisement emails to CompuServe subscribers constituted an actionable trespass to chattels. CompuServe customers repeatedly received unwanted advertisements from Cyber Promotions, a company that specialized in sending marketing email in bulk. Cyber Promotions also modified its equipment and falsified other information to circumvent CompuServe's anti-spam measures. Due to the high volume of email, CompuServe claimed damage to its servers as well as money lost dealing with customer complaints and dissatisfaction. CompuServe also extended its damages claim to its subscribers who spent time deleting unwanted email. The court held that Cyber Promotions's intentional use of CompuServe's proprietary server was an actionable trespass to chattels and granted a preliminary injunction enjoining the spammer from sending unsolicited advertisements to any email address maintained by CompuServe. Cyber Promotions' persistence in sending email to CompuServe's servers after receiving notification that CompuServe no longer consented to the use weighed heavily in favor of a finding of trespass. \n\nA trio of 1998 cases in the Eastern District of Virginia involving America Online more firmly established the use of the trespass to chattels tort as a spam-fighting tool. In \"America Online, Inc. v. IMS\", the court held that the owner of a marketing company committed trespass to chattels against an Internet service provider's (ISP) computer network by sending 60 million unauthorized email advertisements to the ISP's subscribers after being notified that the spam was unauthorized. The court found that the defendant, intentionally and without authorization, caused contact with the plaintiff's computer network by sending the bulk email messages. Such contact injured the plaintiff's business goodwill and diminished the functioning of its computer network. \n\nSimilarly, in \"America Online, Inc. v. LCGM, Inc.\", a company engaging in pornographic website advertising sent a deluge of spam to AOL's customers, and, in so doing, also forged the AOL domain name in an effort to trick customers into opening the emails. The court once again held that a website operators' transmission of unsolicited bulk emails to customers of an ISP, using the provider's computers and computer network, constituted trespass to chattels. \n\nIn \"America Online, Inc. v. Prime Data Systems, Inc.\", the defendants sent millions of spam emails to AOL subscribers advertising computer software programs designed to facilitate bulk emailing by allowing users to harvest email addresses from the plaintiff's member directories, chat rooms, and electronic bulletin boards. The defendants also used technology designed to avoid AOL's spam filtering mechanisms. The defendants frequently used false and deceptive \"headers\" in email messages to make it appear as if AOL had sent the messages. The increased demand on AOL's servers resulting from the spam caused substantial delays of up to 24 hours in the delivery of all email to AOL members, forcing AOL to temporarily stop accepting any new messages. As the spam problem grew worse, AOL had to purchase millions of dollars worth of additional equipment to increase the capacity of its servers to handle the volume of email. The court held that this activity constituted a trespass to chattels and awarded injunctive relief, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs, as well as damages.\n\nSince the early spam cases, courts have extended the electronic trespass to chattels theory even further to encompass screen-scraping and other data \"harvesting.\" Screen-scraping is the practice of taking information from another website, generally through the use of search agent software, and \"harvesting\" the data for one's own commercial use. For example, travel websites frequently use this tactic to offer a host of options and prices gleaned from various airlines' sites. Because the courts have entertained such litigation, some companies have specifically banned the conduct in their terms and conditions statements.\n\nIn \"eBay v. Bidder's Edge\" (2000), eBay successfully used the trespass to chattels tort to prevent Bidder's Edge from employing spiders to cull information about its auctions to display on its own website. Although Bidder's Edge's robots only consumed a small percentage of eBay's computer resources, the court noted that the plaintiff need not demonstrate current substantial interference as conduct which constituted a use of another's property is enough to sustain a trespass to chattels claim. In light of this, the court found that eBay had demonstrated a sufficient likelihood of future injury to warrant granting a permanent injunction: \"If the court were to hold otherwise, it would likely encourage other auction aggregators to crawl the eBay site, potentially to the point of denying effective access to eBay's customers.\"\n\n\"Register.com, Inc. v. Verio, Inc.\" (2000) is a further example of this temporary trend in which plaintiffs did not have to demonstrate any real interference. Register.com, a domain name registry service, sued competitor Verio for using Register.com's proprietary WHOIS look-up service to find potential leads among its customer base. The court found that, by continuing to access Register.com's online customer database after being told to stop, Verio was trespassing on Register.com's WHOIS server. Register.com had specifically withdrawn its consent to Verio's use of search robots to review Register.com's customer list. The court held that Verio caused harm to Register.com's files through the use of these search robots and that the searches improperly taxed Register.com's server capacity. \n\nThese holdings gave the court license to expand the applicability of trespass to chattels to computer networks even further. In \"Oyster Software v. Forms Processing\" (2001), the Northern District of California determined that a plaintiff need not demonstrate any physical interference with a server at all to sustain a trespass to chattels claim and consequently denied the defendant's motion for summary judgment, even though there was no evidence of damage to the plaintiff's computer system. Although Oyster conceded that there was no evidence that the defendant's activities had interfered in any way with the functioning of Oyster's computer system, the court nonetheless denied FPI's motion for summary judgment. According to the court, following the decision in \"eBay\", plaintiffs only need to demonstrate that the defendant's actions \"amounted to a 'use' of Plaintiff's computer,\" and the court determined that copying the metatags amounted to a use.\n\nThese cases indicate that, at least in California, a plaintiff did not have to demonstrate any kind of actual interference with the computer system to successfully claim trespass to chattels.\n\nHowever, some courts subsequently limited tort claims for electronic trespasses, in that a complaining party may be unable to recover for lack of real harm if the party did not suffer any tangible damage to their property. \n\nThe Supreme Court of California reversed the trend exemplified by \"Oyster\" in the seminal case \"Intel v. Hamidi\" (2003), reaffirming the need for a demonstration either of actual interference with the physical functionality of the computer system or of the likelihood that this would happen in the future. Although Intel conceded that Hamidi's emails caused neither physical damage nor any disruption to their computer system, they alleged that the economic productivity lost due to the disruption caused by the emails could sustain a trespass claim. The Supreme Court of California disagreed, holding that the tort does not extend to claims in which the electronic communication involved \"neither damages the recipient computer system nor impairs its function.\" In reaching this conclusion, the court criticized the understanding of \"eBay\" advanced in \"Oyster\", explaining that previous cases in which courts have found trespass to chattels in the electronic setting have involved either \"actual or threatened interference with the computers' function.\" To that effect, the court in \"Oyster\" misconstrued the holding in \"eBay\"; trespass requires more than use a use--it requires an actual or threatened interference with the physical functionality of the system. \n\nAlthough the vast majority of states have yet to determine the applicability of the trespass to chattels theory, the courts that have addressed the issue have applied \"Intel\" and required that the plaintiff demonstrate damage to the computer system. A supreme court in New York in School of Visual Arts v. Kuprewicz denied the defendant's motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim on the trespass to chattels claim because the plaintiff had alleged actual damage to the functionality of the computer system, which Intel requires; the defendant had sent enough e-mails that it reduced the computer system's functionality and drained the hard drive's memory. The Fourth Circuit in \"Omega World Travel v. Mummagraphics, Inc.\" also followed \"Intel\", although this resulted in granting a motion for summary judgment for the defendant because the plaintiff did not allege any actual damage on its computer system. The court clarified that Oklahoma courts have yet to recognize the validity of a trespass to chattels claim based on an electronic intrusion to a computer system, but if it were to recognize it, the plaintiff would need to allege more than nominal damages, which in this case it had not.\n\nAlthough a number of commentators have expressed enthusiasm over the increasing \"propertization\" of intellectual property (that is to say, the increased application of real property doctrines to intangible property) and the extension of the trespass to chattels doctrine to computer networks, a number of detractors have expressed concern over the ramifications of extending the theory to protect electronic communications that do not actually damage the computer systems in question but only cause nominal damage due to their content. Primarily, these critics worry that extending trespass to chattels in this fashion would stifle free speech on the internet because any unwelcome email might constitute a trespass and may subject the sender not only to civil liability under the trespass theory but to criminal liability as well. This would presumably reduce people's willingness to communicate freely on the Internet and curtail the Internet's ability to function as an open, democratic forum. Particularly in situations where the electronic communication is an email that contains speech that is of importance to the public and the communications do not hamper the functionality of the recipient's computer system, First Amendment free speech protections ought to outweigh the property right in the unharmed computer system. Similarly, critics have also expressed concerns that plaintiffs have employed the doctrine to stifle legitimate competition. For example, the screen-scraping cases indicate that courts might interpret trespass to chattels in such a way that allows major corporations to prevent price comparison sites from employing harmless bots to aggregate information that users want in a readily accessible format since it might encourage consumers to look elsewhere.\n\nCritics of the theory's extension to computer networks also note greater theoretical problems with the applicability of a real property theory to intellectual property. In order to explain why real property theories might extend to the Internet, proponents equate \"cyberspace\" with real land, arguing that owners of computer servers should have the same right of inviolability as owners of land receive to promote greater efficiency in transactions. However, even if some aspects of cyberspace resemble real space, detractors contend that cyberspace is not like real land at all because \"the 'placeness' of cyberspace is a matter of ongoing social construction.\" Furthermore, even if granting property rights might help to avoid problems of inefficiency and under-cultivation in the context of real property, critics note that nothing suggests that the same principles would also be effective in the context of computer networks—especially because the problem of under-cultivation does not tend to occur online.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8023387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8023387", "title": "University of Colorado Law School", "text": "University of Colorado Law School\n"}
{"id": "1864064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1864064", "title": "Witness tampering", "text": "Witness tampering\n\nWitness tampering is the act of attempting to alter or prevent the testimony of witnesses within criminal or civil proceedings. Laws regarding witness tampering also apply to proceedings before the U.S. Congress, executive departments, and administrative agencies. To be charged with witness tampering in the United States, the attempt to alter or prevent testimony is sufficient. There is no requirement that the intended obstruction of justice be completed.\n\nIn situations where intimidation or retaliation against witnesses is likely (such as cases involving organized crime), witnesses may be placed in witness protection to prevent suspects or their colleagues from intimidating or harming them.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, witness intimidation is covered by Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, section 51. Under this act it is an offence to perform an act which is intended to and does intimidate a person who the offender knows or believes to be involved with a criminal case with the intention of disturbing the proceedings.\n\nIn the United States, the crime of witness tampering in federal cases is defined by statute at , which defines it as \"tampering with a witness, victim, or an informant.\" The punishment for such an offense is up to 20 years if physical force was used, attempted, or threatened. The tampering need not have actually been successful in order for it to be criminal.\n\nOne of the better known cases involving Section 1512 is \"Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States\", decided by the U.S. Supreme Court in May 2005. The Supreme Court ruled that Section 1512 had been misinterpreted by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, and reversed the decision of the lower court which had found the firm guilty of violating the section. The issue had, to some extent, become moot, because in 2002 the firm had all but dissolved as a result of prosecution on this criminal charge.\n\nExamples of witness tampering include American politicians Buddy Cianci, Meg Scott Phipps and Ted Klaudt, convicted in 2001, 2003 and 2007, respectively.\n\nIn England and Wales, witness intimidation by unlawful means, such as violence, bribery, threats, or improper pressure, is known as Perverting the course of justice.\n\nSection 51 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 includes the offences of intimidating a witness and taking revenge on a witness.\n\nA current source of controversy is the lack of penalties for prosecutors who commit witness tampering or other forms of prosecutorial misconduct. In the United States, prosecutors have full immunity from civil liability regardless of how egregious their actions may be. However, prosecutors do not have immunity from criminal proceedings and can be professionally censured, but studies demonstrate that this rarely happens. \n\nIn March 2003, the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, ruled against a man named Shareef Cousin, who filed a lawsuit against New Orleans prosecutors after he was wrongfully convicted of the 1995 murder of Michael Gerardi. A number of examples of witness tampering during the trial were uncovered. In court, a friend of Cousin's was expected to testify for the prosecution that Cousin had confessed to him. Instead, he told jurors that he had been promised leniency in his own trial if he would falsely implicate Cousin for the murder. An eyewitness then testified that she saw Cousin commit the murder. Her original statement to police indicated that she had very poor vision and could not identify the killer. Her statements regarding her vision were not disclosed to the defense. Cousin also accused the state of illegally detaining many of his witnesses to prevent them from testifying in his defense.\n\n"}
{"id": "4410711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4410711", "title": "Worst Forms of Hazards faced by Children at Work", "text": "Worst Forms of Hazards faced by Children at Work\n\nThe Worst Forms of Hazards faced by Children at Work is a provision in the Worst Forms of Child Labour Recommendation (No. 190) adopted by the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 1999. It sets out the framework for examining and assessing, \"work which, by its nature or the circumstances in which it is carried out, is likely to harm the health, safety, or morals or children\" (C182, Article 3d).\n\nThis effort is an attempt to complement the earlier list of worst forms of child labour. According to the ILO, \"hazardous\" child labour is the largest category of the \"worst forms\" of child labour. An estimated 115 million children, aged 5–17, work in dangerous conditions in sectors including agriculture, mining, construction, manufacturing, service industries and domestic service. It is found in both industrialised and developing countries. Kids can take on hazardous work at very early ages. The ILO estimates that some 22,000 children are killed at work every year worldwide. The numbers of those injured or made ill because of their work are not known.\n\nThe ILO provides the following guidelines for work considered unsafe for children, such as:\n\n\n\n\n"}
