{"id": "26998521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26998521", "title": "Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984", "text": "Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984\n\nThe \"Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act\" 1984 (Cth) is legislation passed by the parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia to enable the Commonwealth to intervene and, where necessary, preserve and protect areas and objects of particular significance to Australia's Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander peoples from being desecrated or injured \n\n"}
{"id": "41671412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41671412", "title": "Advertisements in schools", "text": "Advertisements in schools\n\nAdvertisements in schools is a controversial issue that is debated in the United States. Naming rights of sports stadiums and fields, sponsorship of sports teams, placement of signage, vending machine product selection and placement, and free products that children can take home are all prominent forms of advertisements in schools.\n\nMany state laws permit advertising to be sold on the exterior and fewer permit advertising on the interior of school buses. However, many of these laws prohibit ads for political speech, tobacco, alcohol, gambling, drugs, or material of sexual nature.\n\nRestaurant and fast-food chains frequently offer free treats in the form of coupons to students who receive good grades or have good attendance on their report card. In certain districts, free cell phones are offered to students who receive text messages from companies promoting academic success. Additionally, educational materials are donated to classrooms as a way to support a curriculum. Oftentimes these materials contain the company’s logo or views that are subjective to the company.\n\nChannel One News is a program designed for and broadcast to elementary, middle and high school students. It contains commercial advertising. Its advertising regulations have changed over the years and currently restrict advertisements related to food and beverages that are inconsistent with their healthy lifestyle initiatives, gambling, motion pictures above PG-13, politics, religion, and tobacco or alcohol products.\n\nSponsorship of school sports teams and fields or stadiums is common. Many high school teams have received uniforms, shoes, and funding for upkeep of their stadiums or fields in exchange for naming rights or the team wearing the sponsor’s logo. Companies will also offer discounts to the team members they are sponsoring as a way to push sales.\n\nSponsorship also comes in the form of funds given to have the company’s logo put on report cards and supply lists. Companies know back-to-school time is a great time to increase profit. By putting their marketing material on school supply lists it encourages parents to shop at their stores instead of others.\n\nFood and beverage companies spend on average $150 million each year advertising in schools. Many of the drinks and foods are advertised and made available through vending machines. Even with regulations on what types of foods are allowed to be sold and marketed, the food and drink companies are still able to advertise their brand to students.\n\nAccording to some school administrators, states have cut funding for K-12 education consistently for the last eight years causing many districts to cut jobs, increase class size, and cut spending on supplies. Using advertisements in schools is a way to raise money for school districts. According to proponents, schools, especially in less affluent areas, need ways to raise money in order to keep school programs alive and alleviate the financial burden presented by the funding cuts.\n\nAnother argument is that some advertisements may create a positive correlation to a healthy diet or lifestyle products.\n\nAccording to critics, many advertisements endorse products that are detrimental to children's health, such as unhealthy food, and some people argue that children are more easily drawn to persuasive advertisements than adults. It has also been argued that schools should be environments where students will not be distracted from their work by advertisements.\n\nChannel One News has 2 minutes of advertising for every 12 minutes of news. Students can lose up to a full day of class time over a year for advertisements.\n\nThere is a concern that children do not understand the motivation behind ads. Children under the age of 13 are a vulnerable population that lacks the executive functioning skills to comprehend what the advertisement is trying to sell and the techniques used to persuade and frame customer decisions. Children do not possess the same knowledge of advertising tactics as adults and are more susceptible to their persuasive intent. Elementary school children are not necessarily able to comprehend the fact that advertising agencies may have a different perspective from their own.\n\nEach state in the United States of America can define additional regulations for advertising in its local schools.\n\nThe National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs: Nutrition Standards for All Foods Sold in School, as Required by the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 was updated in 2013 to reform school lunch options. This placed restrictions on what could be served in vending machines and sold on school grounds, with the exception of fundraisers (often candy bars or doughnuts) and after-school events.\n\nThis caused a shift in advertising for many companies as it phased out advertising of sugary drinks and junk foods. While the Coca-Cola Company would not be able to advertise Coca-Cola, it can advertise other product lines such as Diet Coke and Dasani.\n\nIn 2006 the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative was implemented by the Council of Better Business Bureaus as a way to encourage corporations to regulate what they advertise to children. It is not required for businesses to participate in this regulation and there are no legal ramifications if corporations do not participate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13674529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13674529", "title": "Aftermath of the Bronze Night", "text": "Aftermath of the Bronze Night\n\nAftermath of the Bronze Night refers to the reactions and consequences of the Bronze Night, the controversy and riots in Estonia surrounding the 2007 relocation of the Bronze Soldier of Tallinn, the Soviet World War II memorial in Tallinn.\n\n — President Toomas Hendrik Ilves appealed for calm and denounced the rioters as criminals due to the damage they had caused:\n\"All this had nothing to do with the inviolability of graves or keeping alive the memory of men fallen in World War II\"... \"The common denominator of last night's criminals was not their nationality, but their desire to riot, vandalize and plunder\".\n\n\"We must not let the sowers of hatred become the ones to split the nation or to plant prejudice\", he said. \"All nationalities were respected\" ... \"but violence was not\". The memory of dead soldiers was not served when \"a picture of a drunk shoplifter is being shown all over the world.\"\n\nThe dismantling of the monument on the eve of Victory Day on May 9 is \"just one aspect of the policy, disastrous for Estonians, being conducted by provincial zealots of Nazism,\"… \"These admirers of Nazism forget that politicians come and go, while the peoples in neighboring countries are neighbors for eternity. The dismantling of the monument and the mockery of the remains of the fallen soldiers is just more evidence of the vengeful policy toward Russians living in Estonia and toward Russia\".\n\nCouncil of Europe:\nOn April 27, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) René van der Linden expressed his regrets on the decision of the Estonian authorities to remove the Bronze Soldier memorial as this act is widening the rift between the country's citizens of Estonian and Russian origin. \"I understand that the monument is controversial as it symbolises, although in different ways, painful moments of Estonia and Russia's past. Precisely because of this, the soldiers that this memorial commemorates should have been left to rest in peace rather than being used as a political tool.\" The President expressed his disappointment that Estonia had not heeded the appeals for a common understanding over the issue of the Bronze Soldier that he made earlier this year to the Estonian and Russian delegations to PACE.\n\nCouncil of Europe:\nOn May 5, the Council of Europe Secretary General Terry Davis called on all sides involved to use the occasion of the 62nd anniversary of the victory against the Nazis to bring an end to the dispute about the moving of the Monument to fallen Soviet soldiers in Tallinn. Davis expressed his understanding for the reasons why the Estonian authorities have decided to move the remains of these soldiers, but also reservations about the way it has been done. He called on politicians and public in Estonia to draw conclusions from these events and accept that on such delicate and potentially divisive matters, even the best intentioned initiatives may backfire if they are not prepared, discussed and implemented with appropriate sensitivity. Davis called on the Russian authorities to be more respectful and less emotional in the way they express their opinions on such a sensitive issue. In conclusion, he welcomed the decision to commemorate the Monument at its new location on the occasion of the ceremonies marking the end of World War II. He underlined that this choice of date places the symbol of the Bronze Soldier in its proper context – the liberation of Europe and provides an ideal opportunity to end this dispute.\n\n\"In particular, Russia must speed up the construction of modern ports on Russian territory on the Baltic Sea, in the towns of Ust-Luga, Primorsk and Vysotsk. Thereby, we will handle our own cargo flow and not allow other countries, including Estonia, to benefit from its transit. I have already ordered and instructed the Minister of Transport accordingly.\"\n\n\"The future of Europe is also based on full commitment to shared and best pages of European history, whereas the victory over Nazism and fascism more than half a century ago undoubtedly ranks among those pages deserving lasting admiration among all in Europe and in the world.\"\n\nCondemning the unilateral action by Estonian authorities on the eve of 9 May as contrary to this commitment, it states: \"The highest respect for such monuments in today's Germany is noteworthy. We in Serbia shall forever place flowers on the graves of the Red Army soldiers fallen in the battles for the liberation of Serbia and Belgrade from Nazi occupiers. We shall do so also on 9 May this year.\"\n\nWe share the concern about the growing tension around Estonia's embassy, and demand that Russian authorities implement their obligations within the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations,\n\nSeveral members of the Parliament expressed their support for Estonia. E.g. Brian Crowley said\n\nI would like to join my colleagues in firstly giving our solidarity and support to the Estonian Government and to the Estonian people and, secondly, in denouncing the bully-boy tactics of the Russian Government in what they have attempted to create - the uncertainty and instability, not only within Estonia but in all the Baltic States.\n\nIn many ways what we are witnessing is a new form of totalitarianism or authoritarianism by utilisation of mobs in Moscow to attack an Embassy, by utilising the power or strength of energy to try to make people kneel to the influence of the Russian Government and, most importantly of all, by a continuing desire to keep imposing symbols of domination and of subjugation in areas that have gained their independence from totalitarian regimes. Finally, may I say, a most ardent call should go out to the citizens of Estonia to show them that now that they are part of the European Union, they will not be abandoned as they were abandoned previously.\n\nOn 10 May the EU parliament adopted by a great majority a formal resolution criticizing Russia's human rights record. Estonia's question centered the debate with MEPs representing various political groups showing strong support for Estonia. Joseph Daul, leader of the biggest European party EPP-DE claimed that the EU is united with regard to the issue:\n\n\"today, we are all Estonians\"\n\"Belarus is the country that lost every third of its citizens during the Second World War. Any outrage upon the memory of the victims of that war causes us the sentiments of deep indignation and regret. ... We believe that today it is obvious to everybody that the irresponsible actions of the authorities were the major cause for such dramatic events. We regret that the Estonian leadership has failed to have enough political wisdom not to fight the dead. ... We are also outraged with the unjustified and brutal use of force by the Estonian police towards peaceful demonstrators that led to escalated violence and unrest in the Estonian capital.\"\n\nNATO – NATO statement on Estonia:\n\nNATO is deeply concerned by threats to the physical safety of Estonian diplomatic staff, including the Ambassador, in Moscow, as well as intimidation at the Estonian Embassy. These actions are unacceptable, and must be stopped immediately; tensions over the Soviet war memorial and graves in Estonia must be resolved diplomatically between the two countries. NATO urges the Russian authorities to implement their obligations under the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations.\n\nThe Secretary-General regrets the violence and the loss of life in Tallinn, Estonia. He appeals to all concerned to deal with the issues at hand in a spirit of respect and conciliation.\n\n\"In a democratic country, any group of society which disagrees with government decisions is free to express its own opinion, however, it must not violate the law. Acts of vandalism which pose a threat to the life and health of people and damage and destroy property have nothing in common with the democratic forms of protest.\"\n\n\"There is no doubt that respect should be shown to the memory of the fallen soldiers. However, the Soviet Army didn't bring freedom to the Baltic states, so can we blame Estonia if the Soviet soldiers' remains from a central Tallinn square are reinterred in another cemetery? \"\n\n\"interference into Estonia's domestic affairs\". \"Considering the events in Tallinn, and the interior and international tension they caused, Seimas of Lithuania stands together with the Estonian government on the issue of moving the monument to Soviet soldiers from the center of Estonia's capital to a war memorial,\"\n\n\"Finland nor other countries do not have to get involved. As they are occurring in an area near Finland, then we will of course keep a very close eye on them.\"\n\"It is not part of international etiquette for politicians to request the resignation of a foreign government's ministry, it just doesn't suit\"\n\n\"[Estonia] should not be left to stand alone\" ... \"Yet again the difficult history is casting a shadow on relations between states and nations and ethnic groups\".\n\n\"If somebody had erected a statue of King Christian \"the Tyrant\" in Stockholm 500 years after [the Stockholm Bloodbath of 1520], it would also have been a subject of controversy.\n\nThe Georgian Parliament passed a resolution on May 8 condemning the attempts to provoke riots and facts of hooliganism in the streets of Estonian towns following a row over the relocation of a Soviet memorial in Tallinn. The resolution also condemned violent actions against the Estonian diplomats carried out by protesters outside the Estonian embassy in Moscow. The Georgian Parliament fully supports measures undertaken by the Estonian authorities to restore order\", the resolution reads.\n\n\"Georgia also categorically condemns Russia's inability to end assaults on the Estonian embassy in Moscow and on the Estonian Ambassador\" according to Georgian Parliament's speaker Nino Burjanadze, who added that Russia's constant intervention into Estonia's domestic affairs violates international conventions\n\nGerhard Schröder, former German Chancellor (social democratic, SPD), said that the removal was insulting to Russians who died fighting Nazi Germany:\n\n\"The way Estonia is dealing with the memory of young Russian soldiers who lost their lives in the fight against fascism is in bad taste and irreverent\"\n\n\"\"[Estonia]\" suffered from the Soviet occupation, while Soviet monuments have always been the symbol of slavery and lies, as well as Russian chauvinism. The Katyn Committee expresses solidarity with the sovereign government of Estonia and approves its decision to remove the Soviet monuments, sites of the 'Red' empire. We are indignant at Russian official statements threatening to cut off diplomatic ties with Estonia.\"\n\nInternational Helsinki Federation for Human Rights:\n\"According to media reports as well as reports received by the IHF, police in some cases used disproportionate force against riot participants. Some protesters were reportedly hit with batons, beaten and mistreated after being taken into custody in a temporary detention facility established in a terminal at the Tallinn port. Some cases of apparent police brutality were documented by TV broadcasts and cell phone recordings.\n\nThe riots in Tallinn and other Estonian cities have served to highlight remaining problems relating to the integration of the country's Russian-speaking minority, which constitutes about one third of the 1.4 million residents. Despite a number of important legislative reforms since the first years of independence, this minority is still not officially recognized as a linguistic minority and continues to face discrimination and exclusion in everyday life, thus fostering frustration and resentment among its members. Many Russian-speakers still lack Estonian citizenship, Russian-language education has gradually been reduced and stringent language requirements restrict access to the labor market for Russian-speakers. \"\n\nOn June 4, 2007, three members of the Nashi movement, clothed in tent coats, proceeded to stand in for the Bronze Soldier in its former location. Estonian authorities responded by cancelling their tourism visas for non-tourism activities and deported all three to Russia.\n\nOn June 14, 2007, Russian authorities expressed concern of the discrepancy between a 13-member list of burials and only 12 exhumed bodies, accusing Estonian archeologists of losing the thirteenth body. Estonian government has refuted the claims, based on the dig's final report concluding there were no more burials in this area, and instead proposed that captain Sysoyev was mistakenly added to the 13-member list in the postwar confusion.\n\nThe Nashi movement had planned pickets in Estonia on September 22, 2007, to commemorate \"liberation of Tallinn from fascism\". After the Estonian embassy in Moscow refused to issue visas for such purpose, pickets were instead held in front of the embassy.\n\nIn December 2007, Estonia became a party to the Schengen treaty. As a result, people banned from entering Estonia have also been banned from entry into the whole Schengen space. Several Nashi activists deported from Estonia for visa violation (including staging the \"memory guard\" pickets) before it became part of Schengen have been unable to gain entry into other Schengen countries (, ). Estonia allegedly also used its membership to deny entry to Nashi activists not involved in protests in Estonia. A Lithuanian court has convicted another similarly blacklisted activist of illegal border crossing, sentenced him to 30 days of arrest, and confiscated his night sight equipment and large amounts of cash as contraband. \n\nSome Nashi activists picketed the European Commission's Moscow offices on Tuesday to protest EU travel restrictions. Picket had been called \"anti-Estonian\" by the Estonian media.\n\nThe blacklisting lead Nashi to accuse the European Union of violating democratic principles that European officials often accuse Russia of violating, echoing sentiments by then-President of Russia Vladimir Putin who often accused European officials of applying double standards to Russia.\n\nThe secretary of the Estonian Anti-Fascist Committee and at the same time the chairman of the Constitution Party Andrei Zarenkov claimed that as detention centers are overcrowded many of the detainees were taken to a cargo terminal in Tallinn seaport. \"People were forced to squat for hours or lie on the concrete floor with their hands tied behind their backs. The police used plastic handcuffs which caused great pain\", he said. \"The security men selectively beat the detainees including women and teenagers. We have an account that they beat a 12-year-old girl lying on the floor for attempting to stand up. We have pictures of a toilet which is stained with the blood of the injured detainees\", Zarenkov said. He said that all the accounts would be collected, documented and submitted to human rights groups.\n\nThe police has denied the claims of the Anti-Fascist Committee. A spokesman for the northern police prefecture, Harrys Puusepp, refuted the charges of ill treatment of the detainees and also said that rumors of the resignation of police officers (see below) are untrue. \"Nobody has beaten them. They have been treated politely. All amenities were provided for them and medical assistance was offered. Those who spent more than 12 hours in detention were supplied with meals\", he said.\n\nThe Estonian Chancellor of Justice has checked on these claims, visited all detention centres, and found no signs of violations of Constitution, nor any detainees who would support claims of police brutality or make complaints.\n\nAs of May 22, 2007 the office of Procurator General of Estonia received more than fifty complaints on the police brutality, after checking the facts seven criminal cases against police have been opened.\n\nOn May 1 Finnish tabloid Iltalehti published an interview with German nationals Klaus and Lucas Dornemanns (65 and 35 years old). According to their story the Dornemanns were just walking in the area of Freedom Square when they were beaten and arrested by the police. However by their own later admission they attempted to cross the square between the lines of the security forces and demonstrators who were in a stand-off position. The son spent 8 hours in the terminal D and his 65-year-old father 10 hours. According to them at least half of the detainees had no connection to the vandalism on the Tallinn streets. Still they were denied access to water and toilets, they were even forbidden to move. If anybody attempted to stand up they were beaten by the police. The article provides photograph of the Dornemanns showing large hematomas over their bodies.\n\nMembers of the special fact-finding mission of Russian Federation's Duma also visited the WCs of the detention area in temporary detention area in the D terminal of Port of Tallinn, looking for blood stains caused by beatings erroneously reported by some newspapers, and found none.\n\nZarenkov also claimed that about 350 Russian-speaking police officers want to resign, or have already resigned, from Estonian police force so as not to participate in ostensibly violent actions to stop the unrest, such as mandatory beating of women and children. Such claims have been refuted by Estonian police.\n\nIn November 2007, the UN Committee Against Torture has considered Estonia's report and expressed concern over \"allegations of brutality and excessive use of force by law enforcement personnel, especially with regard to the disturbances that occurred in Tallinn in April 2007, well documented by a detailed compilation of complaints\". In 2011, the Committee for the Prevention of Torture (Council of Europe) has published its report on its 2007 visit to Estonia, stating that many of the persons detained by the police in connection with the April 2007 events in Tallinn were not granted all the fundamental safeguards (the right of those concerned to inform a close relative or another third party of their choice of their situation, the right of access to a lawyer, and the right of access to a doctor) from the outset of their detention: while many of the persons concerned were allowed to contact someone and to be assisted by a lawyer only when brought before a judge, a number of detained persons claimed that their requests to see a doctor whilst in police custody had been denied, even when they displayed visible injuries.\n\nIn the days following the relocation, the Embassy of Estonia in Moscow was besieged by protesters, including pro-Kremlin youth organisations \"Nashi\" and the \"Young Guard of United Russia\".\n\nOn Monday, April 30, Estonia's foreign minister Urmas Paet reported that \"the situation had become much worse in the previous night. The building is by now completely blocked.\" Paet says that Estonia's foreign ministry had sent a note to Russia's foreign ministry, due to Russia's apparent unwillingness and impotency to defend the embassy building and its staff (which violates Diplomatic law, especially the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations). Estonia's foreign ministry claims that the life and health of the diplomats and their family members residing in Moscow have been directly threatened.\n\nEstonia's president Toomas Hendrik Ilves expressed his astonishment that Russia has – despite the promises of foreign minister Lavrov – not taken actions to protect the diplomatic personnel. In Ilves' opinion, the ostensible powerlessness of Russia's defense services (e.g. OMON) is especially surprising, given their quick work when dispersing meetings of Russian opposition forces.\n\nOn the same day, members of the crowd protesting before the embassy declared that if Estonian authorities would not set a date for the restoration of the Bronze Soldier statue in its former prominent place, they would begin demolishing the Estonian embassy building on May 1 (traditionally also Labour Day, important in Russia and the former Soviet Union). The building itself was covered with graffiti and stones were thrown at it.\n\nDuring the night, protesters, both from pro-Putin and Communist parties, were playing and singing aloud famous Soviet war marches of the Red Army. They called the Estonians Fascists.\n\nOn May 2, the protesters attacked the Estonian ambassador, Marina Kaljurand, during a press conference, however the assailants were dispersed by security guards using pepper spray. The vehicle of the Swedish ambassador was also attacked. Family members of the embassy staff have been evacuated. During the night of May 2 – May 3, the Estonian embassy in Moscow was stoned by unknown vandals; there were also protests around the embassy of Georgia (Georgia has expressed support for Estonia).\n\nOn May 3, the ambassador Kaljurand left Moscow on a two-week vacation.\nThe protesters ended their blockade the same day. There has been speculation that the vacation\nwas suggested by\nGermany's Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier (by means of behind-the-scenes realpolitik)\nto soothe Russian-Estonian tensions.\nOn May 1, Estonian foreign minister Urmas Paet suggested to consider calling off the upcoming EU-Russia Summit that was due to take place on 18 May: \"We consider it necessary that the European Union react in the toughest way to Russia's behavior. It might imply suspending or canceling various negotiations. Postponing the EU-Russia Summit should be seriously considered\". Paet stated that \"the EU is under attack, because Russia is attacking Estonia.\"\n\nSpokesperson for German Chancellor Angela Merkel told that the summit will not be postponed, but\nEuropean Commission said that a decision to raise the issue at the EU-Russia Summit depends on the development of the current situation. Commission spokesperson Christiane Hohmann said: \"We share the concerns about the increasing violence around the Estonian embassy in Moscow and we strongly urge the Russian authorities to implement their obligations under the Vienna Convention for diplomatic relations.\"\n\nOn May 3, 2007, Russia suddenly announced plans for repairs to railway lines to Estonia, disrupting oil and coal exports to Estonia. As a result, oil companies scurried to secure alternative export routes. Normally Estonia's ports handle about a quarter of such shipments from Russia to world markets. Although Russia denied it was imposing economic sanctions or taking politically inspired action against Estonia, it is suspected that the sudden railway repair plan is connected to the row over the war memorial.\n\nThe Russian transport firm Severstaltrans says it is suspending construction of an $80m (£40m) car plant in Estonia.\n\nOne of the largest Russian dailies Komsomolskaya Pravda issued a call for Russia-wide boycott of Estonian goods, later re-newed with addition of a list of undertakings, deemed \"anti-Russian\".\n\nEven before the first riot, rumours were circulated that under cover of the tent, the monument had been demolished and the war victims buried underneath thrown out as trash. These rumours were supported with a fake photo depicting the statue sawed off above feet. Picked up by Russian media, the rumours were sometimes falsely attributed as public statements of \"Estonian government press service\".\n\nAfter the first night of rioting, the direction of the propaganda changed towards attempts to justify the rioting, declaring the rioters to be peaceful demonstrators and the arrested suspected vandals political prisoners, and making various accusations towards the government of Estonia.\n\nLeader of the Constitutional party Andrei Zarenkov claimed on Friday morning that the bones had already been dug up and thrown away and the statue cut to pieces and scrapped. He was sure, it was never going to be restored. A day later the same man claimed that more than 350 ethnic Russian police officers have already or will be resigning shortly in protest to having to discipline rioters. These claims of his were soon refuted as outright lies by police officials\n\nThe State Infosystems' Development Center has evaluated the ongoing DDoS attack on Estonian government's and infrastructural Internet servers as being partly motivated by desire to suppress flow of information regarding the events from Estonia to other countries.\n\nA number of video clips, usually taken via cellphone camera, have appeared on YouTube under the keyword 'eSStonia', ostensibly to corroborate the police brutality claims.\nAccording to Estonian newspaper Eesti Päevaleht, most of them are mislabelled, apparently in an attempt to frame the incidents recorded in the clips in a pro-rioter way. For example, the clip labelled \"eSStonia - Police car crushes pedestrians crowd\" features no pedestrian-menacing cars.\n\nDistinctly, many participants in the blockade believe that what were characterised as \"riots\" by Estonian official sources were actually a peaceful political demonstration and that Dmitri (also spelt Dmitry) Ganin, the man that died in the riots died through police brutality while attempting to defend the monument. He has been ceremonially declared a \"hero of Russia\" by activists involved in the blockade.\nOn May 4, Rambler-news reported that Mr. Linter had been taken by the Estonian law enforcement from the Mustamäe hospital under an intravenous line, and that his health and whereabouts had been withheld from his family since. These claim were soon refuted by the State Procurature, whose official release declares that \"[Linter] was taken to the hospital because he claimed to have \"various ills\", he was given a full medical and declared healthy\".\n\nThe police are treating the riots as disorderly conduct (a misdemeanor under Estonian law) or severe disorderly conduct committed in a group (a felony under Estonian law), depending on the circumstances of any particular incident, and are proceeding accordingly. About 1,000 suspected rioters were arrested. Acts of vandalism and looting are treated separately, and processed as criminal incidents separate from the rioting.\n\nThree men (Dmitri Linter, Maksim Reva and an 18-year-old school boy Mark Sirõk)have been detained under a court order for up to 6 months, pending investigation of the suspicion of organising riots (a felony under Estonian law punishable of imprisonment of up to 5 years). There were concerns about the health of Mark Sirõ, who has Haemophilia, but his attorney stated that he had no complaints.\n\nSince the riots took place in the centre of the city, after hours of tension, many thousands of frames of photographic and video material of the events are available, both from journalists and security cameras and from witnesses among general public (who usually used cellphone cameras). The police have gathered a number of such photographs depicting unidentified suspects on a website at Identification of Persons (not available from outside Estonia while a foreign DDoS attack on Estonian government servers is underway) and asked the public to identify such unidentified people.\n\nThe police have also called for rioters and looters to turn themselves in voluntarily. Aiding law enforcement in investigating one's own unlawful acts, including turning oneself in before an arrest warrant has been issued, is considered a meritorious deed and grounds for lessening punishment under Estonian law.\n\n218 out of almost 300 vandals, who were arrested during events on 26.–28. April, had a previous criminal record. Among their previous crimes are 45 drug-related violations, 91 larcenies and 18 robberies.\n\nOn June 27, 2007, the media reported of the first batch of trials involving the prosecutors requesting non-suspended sentences. Jevgeni Kazakov, 21, who was infamously pictured as the gleeful looter clutching a half-liter bottle of Sprite, a pack of Orbit chewing gum and two packs of Libresse female sanitary pads, was convicted through the \"negotiation procedure\" (comparable to plea bargain of common law legal systems) on June 27, 2007 and sentenced to one year in prison, with two months to be served immediately and the rest suspended for 18 months.\n\nOn June 26, 2007, the media reported that Artur Kivik, 19, was sentenced to 2 month \"shock incarceration\". Sven Anniko, 18, was sentenced to one year in prison suspended for 3 years. Raido, 20, had been convicted and have to pay fine of 2000 EEK. Both Sven and Raido participated in looting of Hugo Boss store and stole some wine from convenience store.\n\nAnother accused looter, one 23-year-old Jevgeni (last name not published), reached an agreement of conviction and sentence of immediate one-year imprisonment with the prosecutor, but withdrew from it in front of judge. He had a suspended four-year imprisonment from an earlier conviction; this agreed conviction would have brought him a total of five years immediate real imprisonment. According to the Estonian laws regarding criminal proceedings, his case will now be reviewed by the prosecutor and investigators, and will likely go to a full trial afterwards.\n\nA vandal, Sergei Dolgov, who has no Estonian citizenship but had been convicted before, was convicted in the felony of \"violation of public order during rioting\", over throwing rocks at policemen and vandalising lawn in front of Estonian National Library. He was sentenced to one year of imprisonment, suspended for 18 months.\n\nAs of August 2007, the harshest sentence has been that of Vjatšeslav Zjunin, who was sentenced to a year of real imprisonment for looting and had an outstanding suspended sentence from an earlier conviction. Most vandals and looters have been sentenced to community service or relatively small fines, however.\n\nFour Nochnoy Dozor activists have gone on trial in Estonia in January 2008, charged with fomenting unrest during the removal of a Bronze Soldier war memorial. Dmitri Linter, Maksim Reva, Mark Sirők and Dmitri Klenski could face up to five years in prison.\n\nOn 5 January 2009 the 4 activists, charged with organization of riots during Bronze Night, were found not guilty by the District Court of Harjumaa. The prosecutor has appealed the ruling, citing numerous legal deficiencies. The acquittal, however, was upheld.\n\nIn relation to the rioting, 1200 people were arrested and 491 declared suspects of particular crimes. As of 11 January 2009, 125 people have been convicted. For 283 suspects, the criminal cases were ended without charges.\n\nOn most of the trials, the charges pressed were plundering during riots, vandalism during riots, arson during riots and disobedience of lawful police orders. 125 people so charged were convicted, one acquitted, and 10 are pending (including Linter, Reva, Sirők and Klenski).\n\nMost of the damages caused by rioting were compensated by the government's reserve fund. While the Ministry of Treasury undertook gathering and combining the debts so as to collect on them from the convicts, collection on many of them is unlikely due to the different focus of the investigations. In particular, the Ministry of Treasury has paid out 25.6 million crowns of compensation; so far, 66 convicts have been billed for a total of 2.1 million crowns of damages. As of mid-December 2008, less than 85 000 crowns of damages had been paid by the guilty.\n"}
{"id": "5959558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5959558", "title": "American patriotism", "text": "American patriotism\n\nAmerican Patriotism is patriotism involving cultural attachment to the United States of America. Identified as related to American Nationalism, but many diverse ethnic backgrounds share the culture. Today, the United States is widely considered one of the most culturally diverse countries internationally.\n\nThe French and Indian War ended in 1765 and the British Colonials needed more money to pay for the British troops still remaining in the Colonies, so they passed the Stamp Act of 1765. After successfully getting the Stamp Act repealed, some Americans started to get suspicious of the British government. These radicals, led by Samuel Adams, \"created Committees of Correspondence in the various Colonies to begin the long, slow work toward gaining independence from England.\"\n\nSoon, however, the British passed the Tea Tax in 1773 which aggravated the majority of the Colonists. Samuel Adams took this chance to rally the Boston Tea Party; \"The taxes of Americans were being increased without any comment or input from the Colonies. Cries of 'Taxation without representation!' rang loud and clear from Savannah to Maine\" The wiser of the radicals wanted nothing more than to dump the tea into the harbor, to avoid bloodshed, which they did successfully. However, some younger radicals, such as Thomas Moore, sought a more violent reaction. The aftermath included many American ports rejecting incoming tea; though some shipments were offloaded, no one wanted to claim the tea. Resulting rotten tea after 3 years of sitting on the shore, the tea was dumped into the harbor. Ports in Philadelphia and New York refused to unload the shipments, causing the ships to turn back to England.\n\nOn July 4, 1776, the Declaration of Independence was ratified, declaring the first 13 North American colonies free from Britain's rule. It emphasizes basic human rights, such as that \"all men are created equal,\" that people have \"inalienable rights,\" and that people have the right to \"life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.\" On June 21, 1788, the principles and values of the Constitution of the United States were ratified and the first legislature was established on March 4, 1789.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40172612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40172612", "title": "Assured clear distance ahead", "text": "Assured clear distance ahead\n\nThe Assured Clear Distance Ahead (ACDA) is the distance ahead of any terrestrial locomotive device such as a land vehicle, watercraft, skates, or skis, although commonly an automobile, which can be seen to be clear of hazards by the driver, within which they should be able to bring the device to a halt. It is one of the most fundamental principles governing ordinary care and the duty of care for all methods of conveyance, and is frequently used to determine if a driver is in proper control and is a nearly universally implicit consideration in vehicular accident liability. The rule is a precautionary trivial burden required to avert the great probable gravity of precious life loss and momentous damage—the former of which has a priceless intrinsic value and a pricey to invaluable instrumental value. Satisfying the ACDA rule is necessary but not sufficient to comply with the more generalized basic speed law, and accordingly, it may be used as both a layman's criterion and judicial test for courts to use in determining if a particular speed is negligent, but not to prove it is safe. As a spatial standard of care, it also serves as required explicit and fair notice of prohibited conduct so unsafe speed laws are not void for vagueness.\n\nThis distance is typically both determined and constrained by the proximate edge of clear visibility, but it may be attenuated to a margin of which beyond hazards may reasonably be expected to spontaneously appear. The rule is the specific spatial case of the common law , and an application of \"volenti non fit injuria\". The two-second rule may be the limiting factor governing the ACDA, when the speed of forward traffic is what limits the basic safe speed, and a primary hazard of collision could result from following any closer.\n\nAs the original common law driving rule preceding statutized traffic law, it is an ever important foundational rule in today's complex driving environment. Because there are now protected classes of roadway users–such as a school bus, mail carrier, emergency vehicle, horse-drawn vehicle, agricultural machinery, street sweeper, cyclist, and pedestrian–as well as natural hazards which may occupy or obstruct the roadway beyond the edge of visibility, negligence may not depend \"ex post facto\" on what a driver happened to hit, could not have known, but had a concurrent duty to avoid. Furthermore, modern knowledge of human factors has revealed physiological limitations–such as the subtended angular velocity detection threshold (SAVT)–which may make it difficult, and in some circumstance impossible, for other drivers to always comply with right-of-way statutes by staying clear of roadway.\n\nAs with the genesis of most legal doctrine governing problems which precede a legislative solution, the ACDA principle generally originates to decisional precedent by high courts which reasoned general common sense rules of conduct of which naturally follow from the repetitive process of determining specific culpability. Legislation often subsequently followed which either superfluously codified and endorsed or revised these principles, of which courts would in turn continue to flesh out the details. By the late 1920s, the term \"assured clear distance ahead\" came into widespread use as the identity of a standard of care element in choosing safe speed, with differing jurisdictions adopting the language to carry its same effects. Much of the earliest published record naturally pertains to high stakes wrecks among vessels or vehicles as defined in those times, though the obvious principle applies to chariots and might in fact be time immemorial.\n\nHorses may still be expected to use the roadways, as well bicycles and automobiles. The former are a regular appearance in both urban areas and in the country, and are commonly exercised by commuters and Amish. Many roads are unchanged since the 1800s while controlled-access highways have been invented specifically for the automobile. Ships now have marine radar that allows one to view tens of miles beyond the eye. \"At common law a motorist is required to regulate his speed so that he can stop within the range of his vision. In numerous jurisdictions, this rule has been incorporated in statutes which typically require that no person shall drive any motor vehicle in and upon any public road or highway at a greater speed than will permit him to bring it to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.\" Decisional law usually settles the circumstances by which a portion of the roadway is assuredly clear without it being mentioned in statute. States where the judiciary has explicitly established the state's ACDA law include Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, Vermont, and Wisconsin. California maintains this duty, notwithstanding whatever the care of an ordinary person.\n\nMany states have further passed statutes which require their courts to more inflexibly weigh the ACDA in their determination of reasonable speed or behavior. Such statutes do so in part by designating ACDA violations as a citable driving offense, thus burdening an offending driver to rebut a presumption of negligence. States with such explicit ACDA standard of care provisions include: Iowa, Michigan, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and Texas.\n\nStates which apply the principle by statute to watercraft on navigable waterways include all 174 member states of the International Maritime Organization, notwithstanding membership: Great Britain and its common law inheriting Commonwealth of Nations, The United States, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, Montana, Oregon, Texas, and West Virginia.\n\nMost state issued driver handbooks either instruct or mention the ACDA rule as required care or safe practice.\n\nExplicit ACDA statutes and regulations, especially those of which create a citable driving or maritime offense, are aimed at preventing harm that could result from potentially negligent behavior—whereas the slightly more obscure common law ACDA doctrine is most easily invoked to remedy actual damages that have already occurred as a result of such negligence. Unsafe speed statutes are immune from being void for vagueness when they contain explicit ACDA clauses. Explicit and implicit ACDA rules govern millions of North American drivers.\n\nNot all jurisdictions have applied the rule uniformly, most often differing over exceptions for specific \"sudden emergencies.\" There has been an increased interest in the ACDA codified as a universal standard of care that has been brought about by recent technological and social changes such as: event data recorders, dashcams, self-driving cars, safe cities and multi-use movements, and a movement to reduce claims by speeders against governments for \"dangerous conditions\" when operating speeds exceed a roads inferred design speed.\n\nCollision liability has historically benefited the law profession by being cloaked as a mixture of fact and law, but with EDR's precisely preserving \"a state of facts\" often repeated with differing trial outcomes, collisions are less a question of fact, but of law. Electronic access to precise EDR data and rulings with new ideological modeling tools, can now expose judges as consistent political advocates for differing special road user interests. Furthermore, the law needs to be clear, precise, and uniform at a national level for the panoply of automobile manufacturers with the strict liability for their programming of law-abiding self-driving vehicles. It is foreseeable that two self-driving car makes can collide because their algorithm of the law letter is different; a resolvable issue that has been troubling human drivers for decades. The ACDA is a standard with descriptive mathematics, much of which are used in reverse by road engineers when designing or re-engineering roads to a speed criteria—for which its users were expected to follow.\n\nIn a trend epitomized by the Great American streetcar scandal, and accelerated by red scare hysteria, automobile interests became very powerful through the 1980s, even filing one-sided amicus curiae briefs to narrow precedent making it difficult for all prior types of users to exercise their easement to the roadways; its goal was towards making all roads controlled-access highways. In at least one jurisdiction, it could no longer be said \"as a matter of law\" whether a cyclist is a discernible object for which a motorist with proper lookout had a duty to see; an intolerant jury could fault a cyclist for \"being in the way\" notwithstanding that objects are less discernible and more \"sudden\" as one travels with reckless speed. Common law precedent was eroded through the creation of distinctions where none really exists (i.e. visibility of cyclist v.s. pedestrian v.s. warning triangle). These successes in-part contributed to mass congestion, smog, high fuel prices, and obesity, which waned the power of this lobby, and now green multi-modal transportation is Federally encouraged. The ACDA common law rule is more critical than ever to public safety in such multi-modal environment. A continued lack of such standard, or its effective enforcement by both police and judges may substantially diminish the legality of humans ever driving in the future.\n\nThe range of visibility of which is the \"de facto\" ACDA, is usually that distance before which an ordinary person can see small hazards—such as a traffic cone or buoy—with 20/20 vision. This distance may be attenuated by specific conditions such as atmospheric opacity, blinding glare, darkness, road design, and adjacent environmental hazards including civil and recreational activities, horse-drawn vehicle, ridden animal, livestock, deer, crossing traffic, and parked cars. The ACDA may also be somewhat attenuated on roads with lower functional classification.\nThis is because the probability of spontaneous traffic increases proportionally to the density of road access points, and this density reduces the distance a person exercising ordinary care can be assured that a road will be clear; such reduction in the ACDA is readily apparent from the conditions, even when a specific access point or the traffic thereon is not. Furthermore, even though a through-driver may typically presume all traffic will stay assuredly clear when required by law, such driver may not take such presumption when circumstances provide actual knowledge under ordinary care that such traffic cannot obey the law. During times of darkness, commercial vehicles can see ahead about 250 feet with low beams, and about 350–500 feet with high beams. This clear distance corresponds to a maximum safe speed of 52 mph and 65-81 mph respectively on dry pavement with good tires, which is attenuated further by convex and lateral road curvature; safe speed is always dynamic. Non-commercial vehicles have even shorter lighting distances. Drivers commonly drive the maximum posted speed limit at night, often in violation of the ACDA rule and this shows up in accident data.\n\nAs a corollary to the rule that drivers generally must not pose an \"immediate hazard\" upon where or when they cannot assure such distance ahead is clear, it follows that others may presume that no vehicle is posing an \"immediate hazard\" from beyond where they can see with proper lookout. Where there are cross roads or side roads with view obstructions, the assured clear distance terminates at the closest path of potential users of the roadway until there is such a view which assures the intersection will remain clear. In such situations, approach speed must be reduced in preparation for entering or crossing a road or intersection or the unmarked pedestrian crosswalks and bike paths they create because of potential hazards. This jurisprudence arises in-part because of the known difficulty in estimating the distance and velocity of an approaching vehicle, which is psychophysically explained by its small angular size and belated divergence from an asymptotically null rate of expansion, which is beyond the subtended angular velocity detection threshold (SAVT) limits of visual acuity by way of the Stevens' power law and Weber–Fechner law, until the vehicle may be dangerously close; subjective constancy and the visual angle illusion may also play a role.</math>. Given a vehicle of size formula_1 and distance formula_2, the visual angle is: formula_3. Its derivative with respect to distance is formula_4. An approaching vehicle of constant velocity formula_5 will decrease the distance at rate formula_6. The time rate of visual expansion is obtained from the rate at which the subtended angle grows with decreased distance, multiplied by the rate at which the distance lessens with time: formula_7. It follows that formula_8. Hence, an approaching vehicle's looming motion is not perceivable until formula_9, where the term is omitted with small-angle approximation. The units of measurement for size, distance, and velocity variables must be of the same system (i.e. multiply by to convert MPH to ft/s or to convert km/h to m/s or to convert deg to requisite rad). Read more about this topic|group=\"Note\"}} Vehicles that are approaching an intersection from beyond the SAVT limit cannot be reliably distinguished between moving or parked, though they may be traveling at such an imprudent speed as to pose an immediate hazard. In this circumstance, it is impossible for the entering driver to have fair notice that his or her contemplated conduct is forbidden by such hazard, and any legal expectation to the contrary would implicate violating the vagueness doctrine of the US Constitution. It is the duty of the through-driver to slow down and apply the ACDA principle specifically to the intersection.\nSee Table of detection thresholds.\n\nWhen approaching an un-signalized intersection controlled by a stop sign, the assured clear distance ahead is:\n\nNormal acceleration \"\" for a passenger vehicle from a stop up to 20 mph is about 0.15g, with more than 0.3g being difficult to exceed. The distance \"\" is the sum of the measured limit line setback distance—which is typically regulated by a Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, at often between 4 and 30 feet in the United States—and the crosswalk, parking lane, and road shoulder width. A vehicle accelerating from a stop travels this distance in time while through traffic travels a distance equal to their speed multiplied by that time. The time , for the stopped motorist, is the sum of perception time and the time required to actuate an automatic transmission or shift to first gear which is usually between to one second.\nHorizontal clearance is measured from the edge of the traveled way to the bottom of the nearest object, tree trunk or shrub foliage mass face, plant setback, or mature growth. Horizontal sight distance is not to be confused with the clear recovery zone which provides hazardous vegetation set-back to allow errant vehicles to regain control, and is exclusive to a mowed and limbed-up forest which can allow adequate sight distance, but unsafe recovery. The height and lateral distance of plants restrict the horizontal sight distance, at times obscuring wildlife which may be spooked by an approaching vehicle and run across the road to escape with their herd. This principle also applies to approaching vehicles and pedestrians at uncontrolled intersections and to a lesser degree by un-signalized intersections controlled by a yield sign. Horizontal sight distance \" affects the ACDA because the time it takes for an intercepting object, animal, pedestrian, or vehicle with speed \" to transverse this distance after emerging from the proximate edge of lateral visibility affords a vehicle with speed \"\" a clear distance of \".\" Thus, the assured clear intercept distance \"\" is:\n\nThe faster one drives, the farther down-road an interceptor must be in order to be able to transverse the horizontal sight distance in time to collide, however this says nothing of whether the vehicle can stop by the end of this type of assured clear distance. Equating this distance to the total stopping distance and solving for speed yields one's maximum safe speed as purely dictated by the horizontal sight distance.\n\nThe ACDA may also be dynamic as to the moving distance past which a motorist can be assured to be able to stay clear of a foreseeable dynamic hazard—such as to maintain a distance as to be able to safely swerve around a bicyclist should he succumb to a fall—without requiring a full stop beforehand, if doing so could be exercised with due care towards surrounding traffic. Quantitatively this distance is a function of the appropriate time gap and the operating speed: . The assured clear distance ahead rule, rather than being subject to exceptions, is not really intended to apply beyond situations in which a vigilant ordinarily prudent person could or should anticipate. A common way to violate the dynamic ACDA is by tailgating.\n\nThe most accurate way to determine the ACDA is to directly measure it. Whereas this is impractical, sight distance formulas can be used with less direct measurements as rough baseline estimates. The empirical assured clear distance ahead calculated with computer vision, range finding, traction control, and GIS, such as by properly programming computer hardware used in autonomous cars, can be recorded to later produce or color baseline ACDA and safe speed maps for accident investigation, traffic engineering, and show disparities between safe speed and 85th percentile \"operating\" speed. Self-driving cars may have a higher safe speed than human driven vehicles for a given ACDA where computer perception-reaction times are nearly instantaneous.\n\nThe Assured Clear Distance Ahead can be subjective to the baseline estimate of a reasonable person or be predetermined by law. For example, whether one should have reasonably foreseen that a road was not assuredly clear past 75–100 meters because of tractors or livestock which commonly emerge from encroaching blinding vegetation is on occasion dependent on societal experience within the locale. In certain urban environments, a straight, traffic-less, through-street may not necessarily be assuredly clear past the entrance of the nearest visually obstructed intersection as law. Within the assured clear distance ahead, there is certainty that travel will be free from obstruction which is exclusive of a failure to appreciate a hazard. Collisions generally only occur within one's assured clear distance ahead which are \"unavoidable\" to them such that they have zero comparative negligence including legal acts of god and abrupt unforeseeably wanton negligence by another party. Hazards which penetrate one's proximate edge of clear visibility and compromise their ACDA generally require evasive action.\n\nDrivers need not and are not required to precisely determine the maximum safe speed from real-time mathematical calculations of sight distances and stopping distances for their particular vehicle. Motor vehicle operators of average intelligence are constantly required to utilize their kinesthetic memory in all sorts of driving tasks including every time they brake to a full stop at a stop line in a panoply of conditions. Like throwing a softball, one does not have to mathematically calculate a trajectory or firing solution in order to hit a target with repeated accuracy. During the earliest stages of learning how to drive, one develops a memory of when to start braking (how long it takes) from various speeds in order to stop at the limit line. While there may be a degree of variance of such skill in seasoned drivers, they generally do not have the discretion in engaging in a behavior such as driving a speed above which no reasonable minds might differ as to whether it is unsafe or that one could come to a stop within the full distance ahead.\n\nDrivers and law enforcement alike can apply elementary level arithmetic towards a rule of thumb to estimate minimal stopping distance in terms of how many seconds of travel ahead at their current speed. For speed \"\" in miles per hour, this rule of thumb is as follows:\n\nIf this distance is greater than the ACDA, they need to slow down. While most experienced drivers develop a broad intuition required by everyday braking, this rule of thumb can still benefit some to recalibrate expectations for rare hard braking, particularly from high speeds. Additional simple corrections can be made to compensate for the environment and driving ability. Read more about the Seconds of Distance to Stop Rule.\n\nThe ACDA distances are a principal component to be evaluated in the determination of the maximum safe speed (V) under the basic speed law, without which the maximum safe speed cannot be determined. As mathematical statements are more precise than verbal statements alone, the relation of the ACDA as a subset of the basic speed rule for land based vehicles may be objectively quantified as follows:\n\nThe value of the variable \"e\" is the sine of the angle of inclination of the road's slope. For a level road this value is zero, and for small angles it approximates the road's percent grade divided by one hundred.\n\nThe maximum velocity permitted by the Assured Clear Distance Ahead is controlling of safe speed (V) for only the top and two cases. Safe speed may be greater or less than the actual legal speed limit depending upon the conditions along the road.\n\nSee reference V derivations for basic physics explanation.\n\nFor the top case, the maximum speed is governed by the assured clear \"line-of-sight\", as when the \"following distance\" aft of forward traffic and \"steering control\" are both adequate. Common examples include when there is no vehicle to be viewed, or when there is a haze or fog that would prevent visualizing a close vehicle in front. This maximum velocity is denoted by the case variable formula_15, the friction coefficient is symbolized by formula_16—and itself a function of the tire type and road conditions, the distance formula_17 is the static ACDA, the constant formula_18 is the acceleration of gravity, and interval formula_19 is the perception-reaction time—usually between 1.0 and 2.5 seconds.\n\nSee \n\nThe second case describes the relationship of horizontal sight distance on safe speed. It is the maximum speed at which a vehicle can come to a full stop before an object, with speed V, can intercept after having emerged and traveled across the horizontal sight distance \"d.\" Urban and residential areas have horizontal sight distances that tend to be closely obstructed by parked cars, utility poles, street furnishing, fencing, signage, and landscaping, but have slower intercepting speeds of children, pedestrians, backing cars, and domestic animals. These interceptors combined with dense usage results in collisions that are more probable and much more likely to inflict harm to an outside human life. In rural areas, swift-moving spooked wildlife such as deer, elk, moose, and antelope are more likely to intercept a roadway at over 30 mph (48 kph). Wildlife will frequently transit across a road before a full stop is necessary, however collisions with large game are foreseeably lethal, and a driver generally has a duty not to harm his or her passengers. The foreseeable intercept speed or defectively designed horizontal sight distance may vary \"reasonably\" with judicial discretion.\n\nSee \n\nThis third case regards safe speed around un-signalized intersections where a driver on an uncontrolled through street has a duty to slow down in crossing an intersection and permit controlled drivers to be able pass through the intersection without danger of collision. The driver on the through street must anticipate and hence not approach at an unsafe speed which would prevent another driver from being able to enter while traffic was some distance away, or would be unsafe to a driver who has already established control of the intersection under a prudent acceleration a, from a stop at a limit line a distance d away.\n\nThe pedantic fourth case applies when the dynamic ACDA \"following distance\" (d) is less than the static ACDA \"line-of-sight\" distance (d). A classic instance of this occurs when, from a visibility perspective, it would be safe to drive much faster were it not for a slower-moving vehicle ahead. As such, the dynamic ACDA is governing the basic speed rule, because in maintaining this distance, one cannot drive at a faster speed than that matching the forward vehicle. The \"time gap\" t or \"time cushion\" is the time required to travel the dynamic ACDA or \"following distance\" at the operating speed. Circumstances depending, this cushion might be manifested as a two-second rule or three-second rule.\n\nSee Table of 2-second following distances\n\nIn the fifth case, critical speed V applies when road curvature is the factor limiting safe speed. A vehicle which exceeds this speed will slide out of its lane. Critical speed is a function of curve radius \"r,\" superelevation or banking \"e,\" and friction coefficient \"μ;\" the constant \"g\" again is the acceleration of gravity. However, most motorists will not tolerate a lateral acceleration exceeding 0.3g (μ=0.3) above which many will panic. Hence, critical speed may not resemble loss of control speed. Attenuated \"side\" friction coefficients are often used for computing critical speed. The formula is frequently approximated without the denominator for low angle banking which may be suitable for nearly all situations except the tightest radius of highway onramps. The principle of critical speed is often applied to the problem of traffic calming, where curvature is both used to govern maximum road speed, and used in traffic circles as a device to force drivers to obey their duty to slow down when approaching an intersection.\n\nSee Table of curvatures and critical speeds\n\nThe bottom case is invoked when the maximum velocity for surface control V is otherwise reached. Steering control is independent from any concept of clear distance ahead. If a vehicle cannot be controlled so as to safely remain within its lane above a certain speed and circumstance, then it is irrelevant how assuredly clear the distance is ahead. Using the example of the previous case, the safe speed on a curve may be such that a driver experiences a lateral acceleration of less than 0.3g despite that the vehicle may not slide until it experiences 0.8g. Speed wobble, hydroplaning, roll center, fishtailing, jackknife tendencies, potholes, washboarding, frost heaving, and tire speed rating are other factors limiting V.\n\nSafe speed is the maximum speed permitted by the basic speed law and negligence doctrine. Safe speed is not the same as the 85 percentile operating speed used by traffic engineers in establishing speed zones. Fog, snow, or ice can create conditions where most people drive too fast, and chain reaction accidents in such conditions are examples of where large groups of drivers collided because they failed to reduce speed for the conditions. The speeds at which most people drive can only be a very rough guide to safe speed, and an illegal or negligent custom or practice is not in itself excusable. Safe speed approximates the inferred design speed adjusted for environmental alterations and vehicle and person specific factors when V is the limiting factor. The Solomon curve concept can create an approach-avoidance conflict within the driver who wishes neither to drive faster than is lawful and the conditions allow nor have an unsafe speed discrepancy between other vehicles on the road; it is never legal to go faster than the speed limit, and unilaterally reducing the risk of the latter can lead to a mass crash caused by the former.\nMany people are challenged by the concept of \"unsafe speed\" because they find it vague and arbitrary. It is well known that people instead resolve such challenges by attribute substitution, which in this case can mean simply emulating the behaviors of others. In accord with the cultural theory of risk, indeed a substantial part of a driver's risk perception comes from comparing their contemplated conduct to the behavior of others; this includes the safeness of a given speed, notwithstanding the actual risk. As a result of this uncorrected vagueness, group behavior can often be in opposition to safe speed and still be governing a hazardous posted speed limit. By Federal law, posted speed limits are generally within 5 mph of the 85th-percentile speed of free-flowing traffic. Functionality, this amounts to citizens \"voting\" a street's speed limit with their gas pedal from the influence of groupshift. As people generally follow explicit rules all the time of which they do not agree, it is often simply a jurisdiction's failure in their law to sufficiently quantify and disseminate fair notice of an explicit standard of care, such as the ACDA rule. Most DMV driver manuals teach the practice, but far fewer states explicitly back it up in their actual statutes and law enforcement. If drivers were mindful of the ACDA, the \"operating speed\" would by definition not exceed the \"inferred design speed\". In some cases, police focused on driving while \"influenced,\" pull over slower quartile sober night-time drivers moving no faster than they can stop within the radius of their headlights; this discourages adjusting speed downward from anything but the posted \"maximum speed\" permitted by law—which is determined as previously described. It is often unsafe or illegal to drive in excess of 40-50 mph at night.\n\nActor James Dean's 85 mph car crash, Princess Diana's death, and the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\" after colliding with an iceberg at night are all well publicized tragedies which resulted from a failure to maintain an assured clear distance ahead. It has been widely portrayed that T. E. Lawrence (of Arabia) who habitually drove his motorcycle at high speeds, ultimately crashed his motorcycle because he was riding faster than he could stop within his field of vision. The principle was amid the controversy in the 2018 death of Elaine Herzberg, the first pedestrian killed by an autonomous car; the vehicle was traveling at in a zone at night.\n\nA general principle in liability doctrine is than an accident which would not have occurred except for the action or inaction of some person or entity contrary to a duty such as the exercise of proper care was the result of negligence. The liability space from which one can recover is typically, themselves, other parties, or nobody. Jurisdictional exceptions permitting one to legally take \"assurance\" that the distance will be clear beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility and choose such a speed accordingly, transfers classic common law liability from that driver for his or her \"blind\" actions. This duty to assure clear distance ahead is inevitably transferred, as an externality to everybody or thing else who must instead warn the driver, such as the government, its road engineers, and maintainers.\n\nAs it is generally probable and foreseeable that, chance will permit, and at some point there will be an obstruction beyond some driver's line of sight, such an entitlement challenges centuries of precedent in negligence doctrine in addition to posing difficult policy and engineering challenges. It also violates the calculus of negligence because speed is an inherent factor in vehicular accidents which are a leading cause of priceless life loss and lawsuits, and the burden of a precautions speed is radically lower than the former.\n\nThe assumption of risk resulting from the unsafe activity of driving faster than one can stop within one's vision, does not depend \"ex post facto\" on what you happened to hit, for which by nature you could not have known; it could have been a moose or a luxury car. Furthermore, modern times still provide no legal remedies for Darwinian misfortune upon the entire class of unwarnable accidents where drivers and their passengers would not have collided into the likes of a moose, livestock, fallen tree, rock, jetsam, horse-drawn vehicle, stalled vehicle, school bus, garbage truck, mail carrier, snowplow, washout, snow drift, or slid off the road, were it not for their decisions to drive faster than dictated by the assured clear distance ahead. Regardless of what behavior an authority might encourage by fabricating new rights, it remains timeless that constituents cannot sue the wind for causing a wreck when it inevitably violates a \"modern right to drive faster than permitted by the ACDA\" by failing to warning them it knocked down a tree in a forest with lots of trees which all eventually fall down. In this specific regard, jurisdictions which grant drivers the liberty to be fools from their own folly, are also condoning the collateral damage and life loss which is expected to occur. Moreover, modern life-entrusting consumers of driving services and driver-less cars who suffer such caused injury are left without legal remedy for foreseeable outcome of imprudent speed; this in-turn unnecessarily transfers a substantive portion of the ACDA liability space into act of god, government claims, strict liability, or other findings from legal fiction which the justice system generally abhors. What modern times are changing is that one may assure the distance is clear ahead virtually through the Internet of Things, as smart cars connect to get information from smart highways or pass what they see ahead or measure to traffic behind. A fundamental corollary of the ACDA rule is that technology, expectations, and desires may modernize, but the laws of physics can not and do not. The deceleration coefficients and reactions times may change from conveyance by chariot, horse and buggy, internal combustion engine, electric motor, and by driver-less car, but the equations governing stopping distances are immutable. Finally, where it is the policy of the law not to fault well intending diligent citizens for innocent mistakes, human life reaps continued benefit from the ACDA duty of which instills the necessary room to survive uninjured from such foreseeable and excusable error while adding redundancy in the responsibility to avoid a collision; mere unilateral duties laid down to assure the safety of others tend to result in hazardous risk compensation by those unfettered parties resulting in a moral hazard.\n\nAllowing one to drive faster than their vision permits them to safely stop, results in there being no core standard of care regarding safe speed making unsafe speed laws void for vagueness. The ACDA minimum standard gives fair notice of what conduct is prohibited, and people of ordinary intelligence can apply their braking experience or the seconds of distance to stop rule to the distance they can see; once one is allowed to cruise-on without control beyond the edge of visibility, there is little consensus on what arbitrary speed is unsafe, or what to assume of the vague conditions there-past.\n\nTo be able to guarantee \"assurance\" beyond proximate edge of clear visibility, in doing so exempting ACDA duty, a road must be designed and maintained such that there is not a chance of obstruction in one's lane beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility. A road's vertical profile must be assured to have such a curvature as not to hide hazards close behind its crests. Discretion for drivers and pedestrians to enter onto a potentially occupied lane from a side street must be assuredly eliminated such as with fences, merge lanes, or signalized access. There must also be an assurance of no opportunity for animals and debris to enter from side lots, and that there are continuous multi-hourly maintenance patrols performed. Furthermore, such road sections must be distinguished from other roads so that the driver could clearly and immediately know when he or she may or may not take such extended \"assurance.\" Few roads might meet these requirements except some of the highest functional classification controlled-access highways such as freeways and autobahns.\n\nEven if such criteria are met, the law must also exempt driver liability for maintaining clear distance ahead. In most democracies, such liability for failures of the distance to remain clear beyond line of sight would ultimately be transferred to its taxpayers. This only generally occurs when governments have been tasked by constituents or their courts to take the responsibly to design and maintain roadways that \"assure\" the distance will be clear beyond the proximate edge of clear visibility. Pressures to make such changes may arise from cultural and unnecessary risk, misunderstanding the purpose of the road functional classification system, underestimation of increased risk, and reclamation of commute time.\n\nOne of the greatest difficulties created by such an extension of the ACDA is the frequency at which roads reduce their functional classification unbeknownst to drivers who continue unaware they have lost this extended \"assurance\" or don't understand the difference. Such nuance in applicable jurisdictions is a prolific source of accidents. In the United States, there is no explicit road marking promising clear distance beyond line of sight in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, although there are communicating \"limited sight distance,\" \"hill blocks view,\" \"crossroad ahead,\" and \"freeway ends.\" A partial solution to this challenge is to remove driver discretion in determining whether the ACDA is extended beyond line of sight, by explicitly designating this law change to certain marked high functional classification roadways having meet strict engineering criteria.\n\nThe ACDA rule is analogous to aviation visual flight rules, and its discussed exception—allowed only in a well regulated control zone—is analogous to instrument flight rules. Unlike both visual and instrumental flight rules, where federal and international administrative law applies seamlessly and uniformly across the states, the ACDA rule governing ground transportation is relatively variegated across states and judicial circuits. Primitive patchwork governance over a prominent interstate commercial subject, in a modern era where citizens quickly and more frequently travel father than ever before, creates problems for modern driver-less cars which are programmed, distributed, sold, and traded at national levels. As opposed to a strict standard of care, delegation of such standard to a jury assumes the representativeness heuristic for twelve people to determine ordinary care representative of everyone while ignoring its insensitivity to sample size, which of course when applied to multiple cases involving identical situational circumstances results in many verdicts with opposing extreme views, which works against the utility of the law by making it arbitrarily vague. A national uniformity standard which either administratively lays down the ACDA law as has been done for aircraft, or requires states to legislatively enact in order to receive federal DOT funding as has been done for the national legal drinking age, is a subject of debate for those who argue far more people die in cars than in aircraft. While group polarization towards safety has shifted the criminal blood alcohol threshold below levels for which the risk is statistically marginal, the tolerance for speeding—of which each speed unit increment carries an equatable risk relative to BAC—remains relatively neglected. Speed is responsible for more crashes and economic loss than is alcohol. The discrepancy may be partly explained by powerful special interest groups that are lobbying against drunk driving and for loser speed regulation.\n\nStarting with Newton's Second Law of Motion and the Laws of Friction:\n\nEquating the net force to mass times acceleration:\n\nInvoking the equations of motion and substituting acceleration:\n\nSmall-angle approximation:\n\nSubstituting the small angle approximations, and exploiting that the product of a small angle squared, in radians, with the friction coefficient, θμ, is insignificant (for a steep 20% slope and a good friction coef. of 0.8, this equals (.2)x0.8≈0.03):\n\nNow, the total stopping distance is the sum of the braking and perception-reaction distances:\n\nIsolating zero as preparation to solve for velocity:\n\nCompleting the square or invoking the quadratic formula to find the solution:\n\nUse small-angle approximation to obtain a more field-able version of the above solution in terms of percent grade/100 \"e\" instead of an angle θ in radians:\n\nSubstituting the angle as described produces the form of the formula of case 1 ():\n\nThe Basic Speed Law constrains the Assured Clear Distance Ahead to the total stopping distance, and the small angle value of road grades approximates the superelevation \"e.\"\n\nMany roadways are level, in which case the small angle approximations or superelevation may be dropped altogether:\n\n\"This model ignores the effects of air drag, rolling resistance, lift, and relativity as a vehicle's great momentum and weight dominate these factors; they increase the complexity of the formulas while insubstantially changing the outcomes in practically all driving situations except ultra-low-mass bicycles stopping from inherently dangerously high speeds; usability to the layman and conformance with current standard engineering assumptions is the objective and a vehicle's lift factor is often inaccessible. Learn a level ground model with most of those effects here or read about the automobile drag coefficient.\"\n\nThe time required for an obstruction with speed v to transect the horizontal sight distance d:\n\nThe time required to travel down a road at speed v to said obstruction of distance d away:\n\nEquating the two times:\n\nSolving for this distance:\n\nEquating this to the total stopping distance, which is the sum of braking and perception-reaction distances:\n\nIsolating zero, and factoring out a v:\n\nSolving for the non-trivial case (or may distribute v in equation above and apply quadratic formula for same result):\n\nThe solution to the above equation, which provides the maximum safe speed as a function of horizontal sight distance, intercept velocity, and road-tire friction coefficient:\n\nThe time required for a vehicle to enter a controlled intersection from a stop is the sum of the perception time (t), the time required to actuate an automatic transmission or shift to first gear (t), and the time to accelerate and enter or traverse the road (t). The sum of the first two quantities is t.\n\nThe time required for a vehicle entering with acceleration a to transect the sum of the setback and shoulder distances d under uniform acceleration a from a stop via the :\n\nThe time required to travel down a road at speed v to said obstruction of distance d away:\n\nEquating the two times:\n\nSolving for this distance:\n\nEquating this to the total stopping distance, which is the sum of braking and perception-reaction distances:\n\nIsolating zero, and factoring out a v:\n\nSolving for the non-trivial case (or may distribute v in equation above and apply quadratic formula for same result):\n\nThe solution to the above equation, which provides the maximum safe speed as a function of horizontal setback, intercept acceleration, and road-tire friction coefficient:\n\nFrom the :\n\nIsolating for speed:\n\nStarting with Newton's Laws of Motion, the Laws of Friction, and Centripetal force:\n\nSubstituting formulas for Centripetal force, frictional force, and gravitational force:\n\nThe normal force is equal and opposite to the sum of the gravitational and centripetal components:\n\nIsolate formula_5 terms:\n\nThen solve for formula_5:\n\nTo obtain:\nThis is the full solution, however most corners are banked at less than 15 degrees (≈28% grade), so in such conditions, a fieldable small angle approximation may be used.\n\nSubstituting small-angle approximations sinθ≈θ, cos≈1-θ/2:\n\nExploit that a small angle squared, in radians, is insignificant by substituting θ≈0 which obtains the formula used in case 5 (also tanθ≈e):\n\nThe \"seconds-of-distance-to-stop rule\" is derived as follows.\n\nWe first obtain the total stopping distance and then convert it into travel time, which is more easily applicable by the driver.\n\nInvoking the equations of motion,\n\nwhere\n\nThe time it takes to casually traverse the stopping distance at the travel speed is\n\nSubstituting the former into the latter,\n\nThis can be simplified into the rule-of-thumb form\n\nby noting that\n\nSubstituting (US Customary units)\n\nwe have\n\nThis results in a seconds-of-distance-to-stop rule (in MPH) of\n\nThe dry rule does allow one to travel faster in dry weather, but expect emergency deceleration to be a bit uncomfortable. If one desires to remember only one rule, use the wet one. However, because the difference between wet and dry is half-a-second at 30 MPH and one second at 60 MPH, and because dividing by two is easier than three, we can use a correctable rule of thumb:\n\nFor example, a speed of corresponds to stopping distance of 4 seconds' travel at 60 mph. Drivers that require additional perception-reaction time, such as novices, elderly, or those in complex or adverse environments, can benefit by adding additional seconds.\n\nThe time to traverse your stopping distance at travel speed should not be confused with the braking time to come to a full stop, which is a number nearly twice this value ( ). As one is continually slowing down while braking, it will naturally take longer to get to the stopping limit.\n\nA more correct perception-reaction time of one-and-a-half seconds is commonly used by the mathematically inclined. Doing so to obtain your \"seconds-of-distance-to-stop\" for \"dry pavement\" and then converting time to actual distance by multiplying it by the travel velocity and to convert MPH to fps will yield results in close agreement with this table.\n\nWhereas most driving is done below , \"maintaining a blanket 5 or 6 seconds of travel time to the edge of visibility\" (), \"will keep drivers in compliance with the ACDA rule in most simple highway driving conditions – day or night\" – with growing error towards safety at lower speeds.\n\nOn final note, slope has an effect on stopping distance. An additional second or so will need to be added when stopping while traveling down a steep incline, and conversely driving uphill will improve breaking. This is accounting that a level road was assumed in the rule of thumb. \n\nSee also Tire friction and rolling resistance coefficients\n\nSee Car specific accelerations\n\nSee more animal intercept speeds. See article on speed.\n\nSee article on Tire Codes\n\nThe speed values in this table are produced from the formula using an \"average\" coefficient of friction (μ) of 0.7, and a perception-reaction time of 1.5 seconds. Speed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nThis table demonstrates why alleyways, parking lots, parks, and residential areas frequently set 5-15 mph speed limits when the side clearance from the road is less than 15 feet. An urban or residential street which permits a maximum speed limit of 25 mph under its very best conditions (roadsides cleared of visual obstructions past a 20-foot maintained right of way), may in practice be unsafe to drive at more than 10 mph within sections with utilized curbside parking. This table also suggests that the safe speed could be greater than a statutory 25 mph posted speed, where roadside clearance is sufficient such that no \"foreseeable\" object could emerge from the proximate edge of roadside visibility, transect the cleared area, and intercept the lane before the driver could come to a halt. However, wary road design engineers may have differing views of foreseeable intercept speeds than that reflected by the 85th percentile speed chosen by the public. This can have unfortunate consequences where a mass commuting public is unfamiliar with or does not appreciate specific local hazards. Narrow lane widths are purposely used for traffic calming, because careful drivers universally choose their speed depending on the roadway width. Standard horizontal clearances are commonly set by AASHTO guidelines or a jurisdiction's department of transportation.\n\nThe speed values in these tables are produced from the formula using an \"average\" coefficient of friction (μ) of 0.7, and a perception-reaction time of 1.5 seconds. Speed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nSpeed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nThe speed values in this table are produced from the formula using an \"average\" coefficient of friction (μ) of 0.7 and zero superelevation. Speed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nMost motorists will not tolerate a lateral acceleration exceeding 0.3g (μ=0.3) above which many will panic.\n\nSpeed values specific to a given circumstance can be obtained with the same formula using the appropriate reference constants specific to the circumstance.\n\nFor a person with SAVT limit of formula_92, the looming motion of a directly approaching object of size , moving at velocity , is not delectable until its distance is\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34475167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34475167", "title": "Croc (magazine)", "text": "Croc (magazine)\n\nCroc was a French-language humour magazine published monthly in Montreal, Quebec, Canada from 1979 until 1995.\n\n\"Croc\" (\"Fang\" in French) was begun in October 1979 by Jacques Hurtubise, Hélène Fleury, and Roch Côté, with the help of an $80,000 grant from the \"ministère des Affaires culturelles du Québec\" (\"Québec Ministry of Cultural Affairs\"). It printed the work of many leading cartoonists of the era, many of whom were able to launch their careers through the magazine's help, including animator Claude Cloutier.\n\n\"Croc\" begat another magazine, \"Titanic\", dedicated entirely to comics. Croc's publishers briefly distributed a localised edition of MAD magazine from 1991-1992, which adapted and translated existing \"MAD\" back articles by replacing New York City references to Montréal contexts.\n\nFor a number of reasons, \"Croc\" ceased publication in April 1995 after 189 issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71792", "title": "Daniel Boone", "text": "Daniel Boone\n\nDaniel Boone (September 26, 1820) was an American pioneer, explorer, woodsman, and frontiersman, whose frontier exploits made him one of the first folk heroes of the United States. Boone is most famous for his exploration and settlement of what is now Kentucky. It was still considered part of Virginia but was on the western side of the Appalachian Mountains from most European-American settlements. As a young adult, Boone supplemented his farm income by hunting and trapping game, and selling their pelts in the fur market. Through this occupational interest, Boone first learned the easy routes to the area. Despite some resistance from American Indian tribes such as the Shawnee, in 1775, Boone blazed his Wilderness Road from North Carolina and Tennessee through Cumberland Gap in the Cumberland Mountains into Kentucky. There, he founded the village of Boonesborough, Kentucky, one of the first American settlements west of the Appalachians. Before the end of the 18th century, more than 200,000 Americans migrated to Kentucky/Virginia by following the route marked by Boone.\n\nBoone served as a militia officer during the Revolutionary War (1775–83), which, in Kentucky, was fought primarily between the American settlers and British-allied Indians, who hoped to expel the Americans. Boone was captured by Shawnee warriors in 1778. He escaped and alerted Boonesborough that the Shawnee were planning an attack. Although heavily outnumbered, Americans repelled the Shawnee warriors in the Siege of Boonesborough. Boone was elected to the first of his three terms in the Virginia General Assembly during the Revolutionary War, and he fought in the Battle of Blue Licks in 1782. Blue Licks, a Shawnee victory over the Patriots, was one of the last battles of the Revolutionary War, coming after the main fighting ended in October 1781.\n\nFollowing the war, Boone worked as a surveyor and merchant, but fell deeply into debt through failed Kentucky land speculation. Frustrated with the legal problems resulting from his land claims, in 1799, Boone emigrated to eastern Missouri, where he spent most of the last two decades of his life (1800–20).\n\nBoone remains an iconic figure in American history. He was a legend in his own lifetime, especially after an account of his adventures was published in 1784, framing him as the typical American frontiersman. After his death, he was frequently the subject of heroic tall tales and works of fiction. His adventures—real and legendary—were influential in creating the archetypal frontier hero of American folklore. In American popular culture, he is remembered as one of the foremost early frontiersmen. The epic Daniel Boone mythology often overshadows the historical details of his life.\n\nDaniel Boone was of English and Welsh ancestry. Because the Gregorian calendar was adopted during his lifetime, Boone's birth date is sometimes given as November 2, 1734 (the \"New Style\" date), although Boone used the October date. The Boone family belonged to the Religious Society of Friends, called \"Quakers\", and were persecuted in England for their dissenting beliefs. Daniel's father, Squire (his first name, not a title) Boone (1696–1765) emigrated from the small town of Bradninch, Devon (near Exeter) to Pennsylvania in 1713, to join William Penn's colony of dissenters. Squire Boone's parents, George Boone III and Mary Maugridge, followed their son to Pennsylvania in 1717, and in 1720 built a log cabin at Boonecroft.\n\nIn 1720, Squire Boone, who worked primarily as a weaver and a blacksmith, married Sarah Morgan (1700–77). Sarah's family were Quakers from Wales, and had settled in 1708 in the area which became Towamencin Township of Montgomery County. In 1731, the Boones moved to Exeter Township in the Oley Valley of Berks County, near the modern city of Reading. There they built a log cabin, partially preserved today as the Daniel Boone Homestead.\nDaniel Boone was born there, November 2, 1734, the sixth of eleven children. The Daniel Boone Homestead is four miles from the Mordecai Lincoln House, making the Squire Boone family neighbors of Mordecai Lincoln, the great-great-grandfather of future president Abraham Lincoln. Mordecai's son, also named Abraham, married Ann Boone, a first cousin of Daniel.\n\nDaniel Boone spent his early years on what was then the edge of the frontier. Several Lenape Indian villages were nearby. The pacifist Pennsylvania Quakers had good relations with the Native Americans, but the steady growth of the white population compelled many Indians to move further west. Boone was given his first rifle at the age of 12. He learned to hunt from both local settlers and the Lenape. Folk tales have often emphasized Boone's skills as a hunter. In one story, the young Boone was hunting in the woods with some other boys, when the howl of a panther scattered all but Boone. He calmly cocked his rifle and shot the predator through the heart just as it leaped at him. The validity of this claim is contested, but the story was told so often that it became part of his popular image.\n\nIn Boone's youth, his family became a source of controversy in the local Quaker community when two of the oldest children married outside the endogamous community, in present-day Lower Gwynedd Township, Pennsylvania. In 1742, Boone's parents were compelled to apologize publicly after their eldest child, Sarah, married John Willcockson, a \"worldling\" (non-Quaker). Because the young couple had \"kept company\", they were considered \"married without benefit of clergy\". When the Boones' oldest son Israel married a \"worldling\" in 1747, Squire Boone stood by him. Both men were expelled from the Quakers; Boone's wife continued to attend monthly meetings with their younger children.\n\nIn 1750, Squire Boone sold his land and moved the family to North Carolina. Daniel Boone did not attend church again. He identified as a Christian and had all of his children baptized. The Boones eventually settled on the Yadkin River, in what is now Davie County, about two miles (3 km) west of Mocksville. This was in the western backwoods area.\n\nBecause Boone grew up on the frontier, he had little formal education, but gained deep knowledge of the woods. According to one family tradition, a schoolteacher once expressed concern over Boone's education, but Boone's father said, \"Let the girls do the spelling and Dan will do the shooting.\" Boone received some tutoring from family members, though his spelling remained unorthodox. Historian John Mack Faragher cautions that the folk image of Boone as semiliterate is misleading, and argues that he \"acquired a level of literacy that was the equal of most men of his times.\" Boone regularly took reading material with him on his hunting expeditions—the Bible and \"Gulliver's Travels\" were favorites. He was often the only literate person in groups of frontiersmen. Boone would sometimes entertain his hunting companions by reading to them around the evening campfire.\n\nAfter the French and Indian War (1754–1763) broke out between the French and British, and their respective Indian allies, North Carolina Governor Matthew Rowan called up a militia, for which Boone volunteered. He served under Captain Hugh Waddell on the North Carolina frontier. Waddell's unit was assigned to serve in the command of General Edward Braddock in 1755, and Boone acted as a wagoner, along with his cousin Daniel Morgan, who would later be a key general in the American Revolution. In the Battle of the Monongahela, the denouement of the campaign and a bitter defeat for the British, Boone narrowly escaped death when the baggage wagons were assaulted by Indian troops. Boone remained critical of Braddock's blunders for the rest of his life.\n\nWhile on the campaign, Boone met John Findley, a packer who worked for George Croghan in the trans-Appalachian fur trade. Findley first interested Boone in the abundance of game and other natural wonders of the Ohio Valley. Findley took Boone on his first fateful hunting trip to Kentucky 12 years later.\n\nBoone returned home and on August 14, 1756, he married Rebecca Bryan, a neighbor in the Yadkin River Valley. Her brother married one of Boone's sisters. The couple initially lived in a cabin on his father's farm. They eventually had 10 children. His son, Nathan Boone, was the first white child known to be born in Kentucky.\n\nBoone supported his growing family in these years as a market hunter and trapper, collecting pelts for the fur trade. Almost every autumn, Boone would go on \"long hunts\", extended expeditions into the wilderness lasting weeks or months. Boone went alone or with a small group of men, accumulating hundreds of deer skins in the autumn, and trapping beaver and otter over the winter. The hunt followed a network of bison migration trails, known as the Medicine Trails. When the long hunters returned in the spring, they sold their take to commercial fur traders.\n\nSuch frontiersmen often carved messages on trees or wrote their names on cave walls, and Boone's name or initials have been found in many places. A tree in present Washington County, Tennessee reads \"D. Boon Cilled a. Bar on tree in the year 1760\". A similar carving, preserved in the museum of the Filson Historical Society in Louisville, Kentucky, reads \"D. Boon Kilt a Bar, 1803.\" The inscriptions may also be among numerous forgeries of the famous trapper, part of a long tradition of phony Boone relics.\n\nIn 1758, a conflict erupted between the British forces and the Cherokee, their allies in the French and Indian War (which continued in other parts of the continent). After the Yadkin River Valley was raided by Cherokee, the Boones and many other families fled north to Culpeper County, Virginia. Boone served in the North Carolina militia during this \"Cherokee Uprising\". His militia expeditions went deep into Cherokee territory beyond the Blue Ridge Mountains and he was separated from his wife for about two years.\n\nIn 1762, Boone, his wife and four children moved back to the Yadkin River Valley from Culpeper. By the mid-1760s, with peace made with the Cherokee, colonial immigration into the area increased. The competition of new settlers decreased the amount of game available. Boone had difficulty making ends meet; he was often taken to court for nonpayment of debts. He sold his land to pay off creditors. After his father's death in 1765, Boone traveled with his brother Squire and a group of men to Florida, which had become British territory after the end of the war, to look into the possibility of settling there. According to a family story, Boone purchased land near Pensacola, but Rebecca refused to move so far away from her friends and family. The Boones moved to a more remote area of the Yadkin River Valley, and Boone began to hunt westward into the Blue Ridge Mountains.\n\nBoone first reached Kentucky in the fall of 1767 while on a long hunt with his brother Squire Boone, Jr. Boone's first steps in Kentucky were near present-day Elkhorn City. While on the Braddock expedition years earlier, Boone had heard about the fertile land and abundant game of Kentucky from fellow wagoner John Findley, who had visited Kentucky to trade with American Indians. Boone and Findley happened to meet again, and Findley encouraged Boone with more tales of Kentucky. At the same time, news had arrived about the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, in which the Iroquois had ceded their claim to Kentucky to the British. This, as well as the unrest in North Carolina due to the Regulator Movement, likely prompted Boone to extend his exploration.\n\nOn May 11, 1769, he began a two-year hunting expedition in Kentucky. On December 22, 1769, Boone and a fellow hunter, Benjamin Cutbirth, were captured by a party of Shawnees, who confiscated all of their skins and told them to leave and never return. The Shawnees had not signed the Stanwix treaty, and since they regarded Kentucky as their hunting ground, they considered white hunters there to be poachers. Boone, however, continued hunting and exploring Kentucky until his return to North Carolina in 1771, and returned to hunt there again in the autumn of 1772.\n\nOn July 5, 1773, Boone packed up his family and, with a group of about 50 immigrants, began the first attempt by British colonists to establish a settlement in Kentucky. Boone was still an obscure hunter and trapper at the time; the most prominent member of the expedition was William Russell, a well-known Virginian and future brother-in-law of Patrick Henry. On October 9, Boone's eldest son James and a small group of men and boys who had left the main party to retrieve supplies were attacked by a band of Delawares, Shawnees, and Cherokees. Following the Treaty of Fort Stanwix, American Indians in the region had been debating what to do about the influx of settlers. This group had decided, in the words of historian John Mack Faragher, \"to send a message of their opposition to settlement\". James Boone and William Russell's son Henry were captured and gruesomely tortured to death. The brutality of the killings sent shock waves along the frontier, and Boone's party abandoned its expedition.\n\nThe massacre was one of the first events in what became known as Dunmore's War, a struggle between Virginia and, primarily, Shawnees of the Ohio Country for control of what is now West Virginia and Kentucky. In the summer of 1774, Boone volunteered to travel with a companion to Kentucky to notify surveyors there about the outbreak of war. The two men journeyed more than in two months to warn those who had not already fled the region. Upon his return to Virginia, Boone helped defend colonial settlements along the Clinch River, earning a promotion to captain in the militia, as well as acclaim from fellow citizens. After the brief war, which ended soon after Virginia's victory in the Battle of Point Pleasant in October 1774, the Shawnees relinquished their claims to Kentucky.\n\nFollowing Dunmore's War, Richard Henderson, a prominent judge from North Carolina, hired Boone to travel to the Cherokee towns in present North Carolina and Tennessee and inform them of an upcoming meeting. In the 1775 treaty, Henderson purchased the Cherokee claim to Kentucky to establish a colony called Transylvania. Afterwards, Henderson hired Boone and Cutbirth to blaze what became known as the Wilderness Road, which went through the Cumberland Gap and into central Kentucky. Along with a party of about 30 workers, Boone and Cutbirth marked a path to the Kentucky River, where they founded Boonesborough. Other settlements, notably Harrodsburg, were also established at this time. Despite occasional Indian attacks, Boone returned to the Clinch Valley and brought his family and other settlers to Boonesborough on September 8, 1775.\n\nViolence in Kentucky increased with the outbreak of the American Revolutionary War (1775–1783). Native Americans who were unhappy about the loss of Kentucky in treaties saw the war as a chance to drive out the colonists. Isolated settlers and hunters became the frequent target of attacks, convincing many to abandon Kentucky. By late spring of 1776, fewer than 200 colonists remained in Kentucky, primarily at the fortified settlements of Boonesborough, Harrodsburg, and Logan's Station.\n\nOn July 5, 1776, Boone's daughter Jemima and two other teenaged girls were captured outside Boonesborough by an Indian war party, who carried the girls north towards the Shawnee towns in the Ohio country. Boone and a group of men from Boonesborough followed in pursuit, finally catching up with them two days later. Boone and his men ambushed the Indians while they were stopped for a meal, rescuing the girls and driving off their captors. The incident became the most celebrated event of Boone's life. James Fenimore Cooper created a fictionalized version of the episode in his classic novel \"The Last of the Mohicans\" (1826).\n\nIn 1777, Henry Hamilton, British Lieutenant Governor of Canada, began to recruit American Indian war parties to raid the Kentucky settlements. On April 24, Shawnee Indians led by Chief Blackfish attacked Boonesborough. Boone was shot in the ankle while outside the fort, but he was carried back inside amid a flurry of bullets by Simon Kenton, a recent arrival at Boonesborough. Kenton became Boone's close friend, as well as a legendary frontiersman in his own right.\n\nWhile Boone recovered, Shawnees kept up their attacks outside Boonesborough, destroying the surrounding cattle and crops. With the food supply running low, the settlers needed salt to preserve what meat they had, so in January 1778, Boone led a party of 30 men to the salt springs on the Licking River. On February 7, when Boone was hunting meat for the expedition, he was surprised and captured by warriors led by Blackfish. Because Boone's party was greatly outnumbered, Boone returned the next day with Blackfish and persuaded his men to surrender rather than put up a fight.\n\nBlackfish wanted to continue to Boonesborough and capture it, since it was now poorly defended, but Boone convinced him that the women and children were not hardy enough to survive a winter trek. Instead, Boone promised that Boonesborough would surrender willingly to the Shawnees the following spring. Boone did not have an opportunity to tell his men that he was bluffing to prevent an immediate attack on Boonesborough, however. Boone pursued this strategy so convincingly that many of his men concluded that he had switched his loyalty to the British.\n\nBoone and his men were taken to Blackfish's town of Chillicothe, where they were made to run the gauntlet. As was their custom, the Shawnees adopted some of the prisoners into the tribe to replace fallen warriors; the remainder were taken to Hamilton in Detroit. Boone was adopted into a Shawnee family at Chillicothe, perhaps into the family of Chief Blackfish himself, and given the name Sheltowee (Big Turtle). On June 16, 1778, when he learned Blackfish was about to return to Boonesborough with a large force, Boone eluded his captors and raced home, covering the to Boonesborough in five days on horseback and, after his horse gave out, on foot.\n\nDuring Boone's absence, his wife and children (except for Jemima) had returned to North Carolina, assuming he was dead. Upon his return to Boonesborough, some of the men expressed doubts about Boone's loyalty, since after surrendering the salt-making party, he had apparently lived quite happily among the Shawnees for months. Boone responded by leading a preemptive raid against the Shawnees across the Ohio River, and then by helping to successfully defend Boonesborough against a 10-day siege led by Blackfish, which began on September 7, 1778.\n\nAfter the siege, Captain Benjamin Logan and Colonel Richard Callaway—both of whom had nephews who were still captives surrendered by Boone—brought charges against Boone for his recent activities. In the court-martial that followed, Boone was found \"not guilty\", and was even promoted after the court heard his testimony. Despite this vindication, Boone was humiliated by the court martial, and he rarely spoke of it.\n\nAfter the trial, Boone returned to North Carolina to bring his family back to Kentucky. In the autumn of 1779, a large party of emigrants came with him, including (according to tradition) the family of Abraham Lincoln's grandfather. Rather than remain in Boonesborough, Boone founded the nearby settlement of Boone's Station. He began earning money at this time by locating good land for other settlers. Transylvania land claims had been invalidated after Virginia created Kentucky County, so settlers needed to file new land claims with Virginia. In 1780, Boone collected about $20,000 in cash from various settlers and traveled to Williamsburg to purchase their land warrants. While he was sleeping in a tavern during the trip, the cash was stolen from his room. Some of the settlers forgave Boone the loss; others insisted he repay the stolen money, which took him several years to do.\n\nA popular image of Boone which emerged in later years is that of the backwoodsman who had little affinity for \"civilized\" society, moving away from places like Boonesborough when they became \"too crowded\". In reality, however, Boone was a leading citizen of Kentucky at this time. When Kentucky was divided into three Virginia counties in November 1780, Boone was promoted to lieutenant colonel in the Fayette County militia. In April 1781, he was elected as a representative to the Virginia General Assembly, which was held in Richmond. In 1782, he was elected sheriff of Fayette County.\nMeanwhile, the American Revolutionary War continued. Boone joined General George Rogers Clark's invasion of the Ohio country in 1780, fighting in the Battle of Piqua on August 7. In October, when Boone was hunting with his brother Ned, Shawnees shot and killed Ned. Apparently thinking that they had killed Daniel Boone, the Shawnees beheaded Ned and took the head home as a trophy. In 1781, Boone traveled to Richmond to take his seat in the legislature, but British dragoons under Banastre Tarleton captured Boone and several other legislators near Charlottesville. The British released Boone on parole several days later. During Boone's term, Cornwallis surrendered at Yorktown in October 1781, but the fighting continued in Kentucky unabated. Boone returned to Kentucky and in August 1782 fought in the Battle of Blue Licks, in which his son Israel was killed. In November 1782, Boone took part in another Clark expedition into Ohio, the last major campaign of the war.\n\nAfter the Revolutionary War ended, Boone resettled in Limestone, then a booming Ohio River port. On his 50th birthday, historian John Filson published \"The Discovery, Settlement and Present State of Kentucke\", a book which included a chronicle of Boone's adventures. Boone became a celebrity and kept a tavern, working as a surveyor, horse trader and land speculator.\n\nThe border war with American Indians north of the Ohio River resumed with the Northwest Indian War. In September 1786, Boone took part in a military expedition into the Ohio Country led by Benjamin Logan. Back in Limestone, Boone housed and fed Shawnees who were captured during the raid, and helped to negotiate a truce and prisoner exchange. Although the war escalated and would not end until the American victory at the Battle of Fallen Timbers eight years later, the 1786 expedition was the last time Boone saw military action. The following year, he was elected to the Virginia state assembly as a representative from Bourbon County.\n\nBoone was initially prosperous, owning seven slaves by 1787 (a relatively large number for Kentucky at the time), but began to have financial troubles while living in Limestone. According to the later folk image, Boone the trailblazer was too unsophisticated for the civilization which followed him and which eventually defrauded him of his land. Boone was not the simple frontiersman of legend, however: he engaged in land speculation on a large scale, buying and selling claims to tens of thousands of acres. The land market in frontier Kentucky was chaotic, and Boone's ventures ultimately failed because his investment strategy was faulty and because his sense of honor made him reluctant to profit at someone else's expense. According to Faragher, \"Boone lacked the ruthless instincts that speculation demanded.\"\n\nFrustrated with the legal hassles that went with land speculation, in 1788, Boone moved upriver to Point Pleasant, Virginia (now West Virginia). There he operated a trading post and occasionally worked as a surveyor's assistant. When Virginia created Kanawha County in 1789, Boone was appointed lieutenant colonel of the county militia. In 1791, he was elected to the Virginia legislature for the third time. He contracted to provide supplies for the Kanawha militia, but his debts prevented him from buying goods on credit, so he closed his store and returned to hunting and trapping.\n\nIn 1795, Rebecca and he moved back to Kentucky, living in present Nicholas County on land owned by their son Daniel Morgan Boone. The next year, Boone applied to Isaac Shelby, the first governor of the new state of Kentucky, for a contract to widen the Wilderness Road into a wagon route, but the contract was awarded to someone else. Meanwhile, lawsuits over conflicting land claims continued to make their way through the Kentucky courts. Boone's remaining land claims were sold off to pay legal fees and taxes, but he no longer paid attention to the process. In 1798, a warrant was issued for Boone's arrest after he ignored a summons to testify in a court case, although the sheriff never found him. That same year, the Kentucky assembly named Boone County in his honor.\n\nHaving endured legal and financial setbacks, Boone sought to make a fresh start by leaving the United States. In 1799, he moved his extended family to what is now St. Charles County, Missouri, but was then part of Spanish Louisiana. The Spanish, eager to promote settlement in the sparsely populated region, did not enforce the official requirement that all immigrants had to be Roman Catholic. The Spanish governor appointed Boone \"syndic\" (judge and jury) and commandant (military leader) of the Femme Osage district. The many anecdotes of Boone's tenure as syndic suggest he sought to render fair judgments rather than to strictly observe the letter of the law.\n\nBoone served as syndic and commandant until 1804, when Missouri became part of the United States following the Louisiana Purchase. Because Boone's land grants from the Spanish government had been largely based on verbal agreements, he once again lost his land claims. In 1809, he petitioned Congress to restore his Spanish land claims, which was finally done in 1814. Boone sold most of this land to repay old Kentucky debts. When the War of 1812 came to Missouri, Boone's sons Daniel Morgan Boone and Nathan Boone took part, but by that time Boone was much too old for militia duty.\n\nBoone spent his final years in Missouri, often in the company of children and grandchildren, where he continued to hunt and trap as much as his health and energy levels permitted. According to one story, in 1810 or later, Boone went with a group on a long hunt as far west as the Yellowstone River, a remarkable journey at his age, if true. In 1816, a United States officer at Fort Osage, on the Missouri, wrote:\n\nStories were told of Boone making one last visit to Kentucky to pay off his creditors, although some or all of these tales may be folklore. American painter John James Audubon claimed to have gone hunting with Boone in the woods of Kentucky around 1810. Years later, Audubon painted a portrait of Boone, supposedly from memory, although skeptics have noted the similarity of this painting to the well-known portraits by Chester Harding. Boone's family insisted he never returned to Kentucky after 1799, although some historians believe Boone visited his brother Squire near Kentucky in 1810 and have therefore reported Audubon's story as factual.\n\nDaniel Boone died of natural causes (other sources say from acute indigestion) on September 26, 1820, at Nathan Boone's home on Femme Osage Creek, five weeks short of his 86th birthday. His last words were, \"I'm going now. My time has come.\" He was buried next to Rebecca, who had died on March 18, 1813. The graves, which were unmarked until the mid-1830s, were near Jemima (Boone) Callaway's home on Tuque Creek, about two miles (3 km) from the present-day Marthasville, Missouri. In 1845, the Boones' remains were supposedly disinterred and reburied in a new cemetery, Frankfort Cemetery in Frankfort, Kentucky. Resentment in Missouri about the disinterment grew over the years, and a legend arose that Boone's remains never left Missouri. According to this story, Boone's tombstone in Missouri had been inadvertently placed over the wrong grave, but no one had ever corrected the error. Boone's relatives in Missouri, displeased with the Kentuckians who came to exhume Boone, kept quiet about the mistake, and they allowed the Kentuckians to dig up the wrong remains. No contemporary evidence indicates this actually happened, but in 1983, a forensic anthropologist examined a crude plaster cast of Boone's skull made before the Kentucky reburial and announced it might be the skull of an African American. Black slaves had also been buried at Tuque Creek, so it is possible the wrong remains were mistakenly removed from the crowded graveyard. Both the Frankfort Cemetery in Kentucky and the Old Bryan Farm graveyard in Missouri claim to have Boone's remains. The Kentucky Legislature appropriated two thousand dollars in 1860 for the erection of a monument over the grave of Daniel Boone in Frankfort. The monument at Boone's grave site today was built by John Haley in 1860. In 1862 four marble panels were added depicting scenes from Daniel and Rebecca's lives. The panels were vandalized during the American Civil War and restored in 1906. Only one of the original panels still exists. The vandalism of the monument during the Civil War does not appear to be senseless in nature. Lyman Beecher Hannaford of the 103rd Ohio Infantry who were garrisoned at Fort Hill in Frankfort, Kentucky remarks in his letter dated April 2, 1863, \"I have been walking around in the cemetery and I got a piece of Daniel Boone's monument. ³ I shall keep it till I go home. I have quite a number of pieces of rock and shell that I am keeping for specimens.\"\n\nDaniel Boone remains an iconic figure in American history, although his status as an early American folk hero and later as a subject of fiction have tended to obscure the actual details of his life. Several places in the United States are named for him, including the Daniel Boone National Forest, the Sheltowee Trace Trail, the town of Boone, North Carolina, various settlements carrying the name of \"Boonville\", and seven counties: Boone County, Illinois, Boone County, Indiana, Boone County, Nebraska, Boone County, West Virginia, Boone County, Missouri, Boone County, Arkansas, and Boone County, Kentucky. Schools across the United States are named for Daniel Boone, including schools in Birdsboro, Pennsylvania, Douglassville, Pennsylvania, Richmond, Kentucky, Wentzville, Missouri, Warrenton, Missouri, Gray, Tennessee, and Chicago.\nDaniel Boone was honored with a 6-cent stamp in the American Folklore Series on September 26, 1968, at Frankfort, Kentucky, where his remains were supposedly reburied. He was a famous frontiersman in the development of Virginia, Kentucky and the trans-Appalachian west. A wall of roughly-hewn boards displays the tools of Boone's trade—a Pennsylvania rifle, a powder horn, and a knife. The pipe tomahawk represents that the Shawnees had adopted Boone. His name and birth date were carved on the wall.\n\nThe U.S. Navy's Polaris submarine , was named after Boone.\n\nBoone emerged as a legend in large part because of land speculator John Filson's \"The Adventures of Colonel Daniel Boon\", part of his book \"The Discovery, Settlement and present State of Kentucke\". First published in 1784, Filson's book was primarily intended to popularize Kentucky to immigrants. It was soon translated into French and German, and made Boone famous in America and Europe. Based on interviews with Boone, Filson's book contained a mostly factual account of Boone's adventures from the exploration of Kentucky through the American Revolution. However, because the real Boone was a man of few words, Filson invented florid, philosophical dialogue for this \"autobiography\". Subsequent editors cut some of these passages and replaced them with more plausible—but still spurious—ones. Often reprinted, Filson's book established Boone as one of the first popular heroes of the United States.\n\nLike John Filson, Timothy Flint also interviewed Boone, and his \"Biographical Memoir of Daniel Boone, the First Settler of Kentucky\" (1833) became one of the best-selling biographies of the 19th century. Flint greatly embellished Boone's adventures, doing for Boone what Parson Weems did for George Washington. In Flint's book, Boone fought hand-to-paw with a bear, escaped from Indians by swinging on vines (as Tarzan would later do), and so on. Although Boone's family thought the book was absurd, Flint greatly influenced the popular conception of Boone, since these tall tales were recycled in countless dime novels and books aimed at young boys.\n\nThanks to Filson's book, in Europe, Boone became a symbol of the \"natural man\" who lives a virtuous, uncomplicated existence in the wilderness. This was most famously expressed in Lord Byron's epic poem \"Don Juan\" (1822), which devoted a number of stanzas to Boone, including this one:\n\nByron's poem celebrated Boone as someone who found happiness by turning his back on civilization. In a similar vein, many folk tales depicted Boone as a man who migrated to more remote areas whenever civilization crowded in on him. In a typical anecdote, when asked why he was moving to Missouri, Boone supposedly replied, \"I want more elbow room!\" Boone rejected such an interpretation of his life, however. \"Nothing embitters my old age,\" he said late in life, like \"the circulation of absurd stories that I retire as civilization advances ...\"\n\nExisting simultaneously with the image of Boone as a refugee from society was, paradoxically, the popular portrayal of him as civilization's trailblazer. Boone was celebrated as an agent of Manifest Destiny, a pathfinder who tamed the wilderness, paving the way for the extension of American civilization. In 1852, critic Henry Tuckerman dubbed Boone \"the Columbus of the woods\", comparing Boone's passage through the Cumberland Gap to Christopher Columbus's voyage to the New World. In popular mythology, Boone became the first to explore and settle Kentucky, opening the way for countless others to follow. In fact, other Americans had explored and settled Kentucky before Boone, as debunkers in the 20th century often pointed out, but Boone came to symbolize them all, making him what historian Michael Lofaro called \"the founding father of westward expansion\".\n\nIn the 19th century, when Native Americans were being displaced from their lands and confined on reservations, Boone's image was often reshaped into the stereotype of the belligerent, Indian-hating frontiersman which was then popular. In John A. McClung's \"Sketches of Western Adventure\" (1832), for example, Boone was portrayed as longing for the \"thrilling excitement of savage warfare.\" Boone was transformed in the popular imagination into someone who regarded Indians with contempt and had killed scores of the \"savages\". The real Boone disliked bloodshed, however. According to historian John Bakeless, there is no record that Boone ever scalped Indians, unlike other frontiersmen of the era. Boone once told his son Nathan that he was certain of having killed only one Indian, during the battle at Blue Licks, although he believed others might have died from his bullets in other battles. Even though Boone had lost two sons in wars with Indians, he respected Indians and was respected by them. In Missouri, Boone often went hunting with the very Shawnees who had captured and adopted him decades earlier. Some 19th-century writers regarded Boone's sympathy for Indians as a character flaw and therefore altered his words to conform to contemporary attitudes.\n\nBoone's adventures, real and mythical, formed the basis of the archetypal hero of the American West, popular in 19th-century novels and 20th-century films. The main character of James Fenimore Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales, the first of which was published in 1823, bore striking similarities to Boone; even his name, Nathaniel Bumppo, echoed Daniel Boone's name. As mentioned above, \"The Last of the Mohicans\" (1826), Cooper's second Leatherstocking novel, featured a fictionalized version of Boone's rescue of his daughter. After Cooper, other writers developed the Western hero, an iconic figure which began as a variation of Daniel Boone.\n\nIn the 20th century, Boone was featured in numerous comic strips, radio programs, and films, such as the 1936 film \"Daniel Boone\", with George O'Brien playing the title role.\n\nDaniel Boone was the subject of a TV series that ran on NBC from 1964 to 1970. In the theme song for the series, Boone was described as a \"big man\" in a \"coonskin cap\", and the \"rippin'est, roarin'est, fightin'est man the frontier ever knew!\" This did not describe the real Boone, who was not a big man and did not wear a coonskin cap. Boone was portrayed this way because Fess Parker, the tall actor who played him, was essentially reprising his role as Davy Crockett from an earlier TV series. That Boone could be portrayed the same way as Crockett, another American frontiersman with a very different personality, was another example of how Boone's image was reshaped to suit popular tastes.\n\nBoone's grandson Alphonso Boone was an early settler of the Willamette River Valley in Oregon, arriving in 1846 and establishing Boones Ferry the next year. Three generations of Boone's descendants have been Major League Baseball players: Ray Boone, Ray's son Bob Boone, and Ray's grandchildren Bret Boone and Aaron Boone.\n\n\n\n\nPrimary material\n\nOther material\n"}
{"id": "57443723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57443723", "title": "Encyclopedia of Latin American History and Culture", "text": "Encyclopedia of Latin American History and Culture\n\nEncyclopedia of Latin American History and Culture is a comprehensive reference work, with over 5,000 articles by specialists in Latin American history, politics, and culture. The first edition of the encyclopedia comprises five print volumes, edited by Barbara Tenenbaum of the Hispanic Division of the Library of Congress. A second edition in 2008 comprises six volumes, edited by Jay Kinsbruner and Erick Langer, in print and electronic format. There are lengthy, comprehensive articles, as well as shorter topical ones. Three thousand biographical sketches of important Latin Americans range from the prehispanic era to the late twentieth-century from all parts of Latin America. There are a large number of illustrations and maps. In addition, there is large index to the set, and cross-referencing within articles. Reviewer Thomas E. Skidmore says, \"The publication of this Encyclopedia is a landmark in the development of Latin American Studies in the English-speaking world. It gives convincing evidence of maturity of the field.\" Another reviewer praised it for \"its focus on Latin America, is an ideal compromise between national and universal encyclopedias.\" It was reviewed in a number of other journals. Its editor won the Waldo G. Leland Prize \"awarded every five years for the most outstanding reference work in history. The project was praised for providing information on individuals, culture, and institutions, which went well beyond the famous ones.\" \n"}
{"id": "34406957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34406957", "title": "Environment Triptych", "text": "Environment Triptych\n\nThe Environment Triptych, by sculptor Jon Edgar, is a group of three portrait heads of environmental thinkers of the day. First assembled in 2008, it is composed of the terracotta heads of James Lovelock, proposer of the Gaia hypothesis, moral philosopher Mary Midgley, and writer Richard Mabey. Edgar worked with three in either Cornwall, Newcastle upon Tyne or Norfolk during visits in 2006 and 2007.\n\nThe heads have a relevance as individual portraits, but the interplay of the three heads plinthed together seemed to add something; perhaps emphasising the sitters’ diverse efforts in influencing human behaviour and our interaction with the planet and its other organisms. The \"Triptych\" has led to the \"Environment Series\" of heads of environmentally aware sitters, including Chris Rapley, Gordon Murray, Tim Smit, and Guy Watson.\n"}
{"id": "18977595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18977595", "title": "Ethiopian Studies", "text": "Ethiopian Studies\n\nEthiopian Studies refers to a multi-disciplinary academic cluster dedicated to research on Ethiopia within the cultural and historical context of the Horn of Africa.\n\nThe classical concept of Ethiopian Studies, developed by European scholars, is based on disciplines like philology and linguistics, history and ethnography. It includes the study of Ethiopian arts and the history and theology of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. The classical core of Ethiopian Studies is the philology of the written sources of Christian Ethiopia and Ethio-semitic linguistics. While this approach is still alive and has its role, Ethiopian Studies has opened to a wider concept that tries to avoid a bias in favour of the Christian Abyssinian culture (Amhara, Tigrinya; \"cf\". Habesha people). It includes the study of the other Afro-Asiatic languages and cultures of Ethiopia besides those of Ethio-semitic derivation; the nation's non-Afro-Asiatic languages and cultures, including the southern Ethiopian cultures; non-Christian faiths, comprising Islam and traditional religions; social and political sciences; as well as contemporary issues like environment and development studies.\n\nThe study of Ethiopian topics had been long been concentrated in European academic institutions. This is seen in such examples as Enno Littmann directing the German Aksum-Expedition in Ethiopia in 1905. When Italy invaded Ethiopia, some Italian scholars such as Enrico Cerulli were active in Ethiopia. As a result, many Ethiopian manuscript collections and other materials from Ethiopia are found in European museums and libraries.\n\nEthiopian Studies began a new era in 1963 when the Institute of Ethiopian Studies was founded on the campus of Haile Selassie University (which was later renamed Addis Ababa University). The heart of the IES is the library, containing a wide variety of published and unpublished materials on all types of matters related to Ethiopia and the Horn of Africa.\n\nEthiopian Studies scholars congregate at the interdisciplinary International Conference of Ethiopian Studies, a series of gatherings that takes place every three years. Traditionally, every third conference is held in Ethiopia. The 19th meeting was in Warsaw, August 24–28, 2015. The 20th conference will be in Mekelle, Ethiopia in 2018. Volumes of proceedings are published after most conferences.\n\nEthiopian Studies is served by a few journals and publications specifically devoted to the field. These include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2317901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2317901", "title": "Exequatur", "text": "Exequatur\n\nAn exequatur is a legal document issued by a sovereign authority that permits the exercise or enforcement of a right within the jurisdiction of the authority. The word is a form of the Latin verb \"exequi\", which denotes \"let it be executed\".\n\nAn exequatur is a patent which a head of state issues to a foreign consul, guaranteeing the consul's rights and privileges of office and ensuring recognition in the state to which the consul is appointed to exercise such powers. If a consul is not appointed by commission, the consul receives no exequatur; the government will usually provide some other means to recognize the consul. The exequatur may be withdrawn, but in practice, where a consul is obnoxious, an opportunity is afforded to his government to recall him.\n\nAn exequatur is a legal instrument issued by secular authorities in Roman Catholic nations to guarantee the legal force of Papal doctrines have legal force within the jurisdiction of the secular authority. This custom began during the Western Schism, when the legitimately elected Supreme Pontiff permitted secular leaders to verify the authenticity of Papal decrees before enforcing them.\n\nSome dissidents in the Church claim, however, that the custom arose as an implication of the nature of secular authority over the Church and that such a state privilege to verify Papal doctrine was exercised since the early days of the Church. However, Church doctrine denies that any permission from secular authority is necessary for Papal decrees to be legally effective, even though secular authorities sometimes do not enforce them.\n\nIn Brazilian, French, Luxembourg, Italian, Mexican, and Spanish law, an exequatur is a judgment of a tribunal (in the case of Italy, the Court of Appeal) that a decision issued by a foreign tribunal is to be executed in the jurisdiction of the former, thereby granting authority to the decision of the foreign tribunal as if it issued from the native tribunal.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, an exequatur is a document that validates a court order of a United States civil court as if a court of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico issued it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1835106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1835106", "title": "Feoffment", "text": "Feoffment\n\nIn the Middle Ages, especially under the European feudal system, feoffment or enfeoffment was the deed by which a person was given land in exchange for a pledge of service. This mechanism was later used to avoid restrictions on the passage of title in land by a system in which a landowner would give land to one person for the use of another. The common law of estates in land grew from this concept.\n\nIn English law, feoffment was a transfer of land or property that gave the new holder the right to sell it as well as the right to pass it on to his heirs as an inheritance. It was total relinquishment and transfer of all rights of ownership of an estate in land from one individual to another person. In feudal England a feoffment could only be made of a fee (or \"fief\"), which is an estate in land, that is to say an ownership of rights over land, rather than ownership of the land itself, the only true owner of which was the monarch under his allodial title. Enfeoffment could be made of fees of various feudal tenures, such as fee-tail or fee-simple.\n\nThe conveyance or delivery of possession, known as livery of seisin was effected generally on the site of the land in a symbolic ceremony called \"feoffment with livery of seisin.\" In the ceremony, the parties would typically go to the land with witnesses \"and the transferor would then hand to the transferee a lump of soil or a twig from a tree -- all the while intoning the appropriate words of grant, together with the magical words 'and his heirs' if the interest transferred was to be a potentially infinite one.\" Written conveyances were customary and mandatory after 1677. The feoffee was thenceforward said to hold his property \"of\" or \"from\" the feoffor, in return for a specified service depending on the exact form of feudal land tenure involved in the feoffment. Thus for every holding of land during the feudal era there existed an historical unbroken chain of feoffees, in the form of overlords, ultimately springing from feoffments made by William the Conqueror himself in 1066 as the highest overlord of all.\n\nThis pattern of land-holding was the natural product of William the Conqueror claiming an allodial title to all the land of England following the Norman Conquest of 1066 and parcelling it out as large fees in the form of feudal baronies to his followers, who then in turn subinfeudated the lands comprising their baronies into manors to be held from them by their own followers and knights.\n\nWhen the new feoffee sub-enfeoffed another person from his holding, for example where he created a new manor, he would become overlord to the person so enfeoffed, and a mesne lord within the longer historical chain of title. In modern English land law the theory of such long historical chain of title still exists for every holding in fee simple, although for practical purposes it is not necessary at the time of conveyance to recite the descent of the fee from its creation. The establishment of a national Land Registry has obviated the need for recitals of descent.\n\nIn China and some other South East Asian countries, from the time of the Zhou Dynasty (1046–256 BCE) relatives and descendants of the ruling family were granted enfeoffments in return for pledging to protect the King or Emperor in times of war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1184901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184901", "title": "First Love (novella)", "text": "First Love (novella)\n\nFirst Love (, \"Pervaya ljubov\") is a novella by Ivan Turgenev, first published in 1860. It is one of his most popular pieces of short fiction. It tells the love story between a 21-year-old girl and a 16-year-old boy.\n\n\"First Love\" was published in March 1860 in the \"Reader's Library\". Like many of Turgenev's works, this one is highly autobiographical. Indeed, the author claimed it was the most autobiographical of all his works. Here Turgenev is retelling an incident from his own life, his infatuation with a young neighbor in the country, Catherine Shakovskoy (the Zinaida of the novella), an infatuation that lasted until his discovery that Catherine was in fact his own father's mistress.\n\nCritics were divided. Some criticized its light subject matter that did not touch upon any of the pressing social and political issues of the day. Others condemned the impropriety of that subject matter, namely a father and son in love with the same woman and a young woman who was the mistress of a married man. But it had its many admirers, including the French novelist Gustave Flaubert, who gushed in a letter to Turgenev, \"What an exciting girl that Zinochka [Zinaida] is!\" The Countess Lambert, a close acquaintance of Turgenev, told the author that the Russian emperor himself had read the novella to the empress and been delighted by it.\n\nVladimir Petrovich – The storyteller, at the time of narration a 16-year-old boy; the protagonist of the story.\n\nZinaida Alexandrovna Zasyekina – The object of Vladimir's affections. Capricious, mocking and difficult, she is inconsistent in her affections towards her suitors, of which Vladimir is the one to whom she shows (outwardly) the most affection. However, it is the affection of sister to brother rather than between lovers.\n\nPyotr Vasilyevich – Vladimir's father, a stoic symbol of 19th century masculinity; very 'British' in outlook and apparently unreceptive to emotion but the object of quiet admiration by the son\n\n\n\"Pervaya lyubov'\" (Первая любовь) USSR, Mosfilm 1968, 76 min\n\nA German film adapting the Turgenev's novella was released on 1970.\n\nAnne Flournoy's 1983 short \"Nadja Yet\" is an adaptation of \"First Love.\" Zinaida Alexandrovna Zasyekina is played by Jenny Wright. Pyotr Vasilyevich is played by Stephen Payne. Vladimir Petrovich is played by a live-action housefly. \"Nadja Yet\" can be seen on YouTube.\n\nThe film \"Lover's Prayer\" combining Turgenev's novella and Chekhov's \"The Peasant Woman\" was released in 1999.\n\nThe Tamil Tamil language movie \"Sindhu Samaveli\" is an adaptation of \"First Love\". In literal context, \"Sindhu Samaveli\" is the Tamil name for Indus Valley Civilization\n\n Trans. Constance Garnett. Includes \"First Love\" along with two other Turgenev stories, \"Torrents of Spring\" and \"Mumu\".\n"}
{"id": "47245105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47245105", "title": "Fund governance", "text": "Fund governance\n\nFund governance refers to a system of checks and balances and work performed by the governing body (board) of an investment fund to ensure that the fund is operated in the best interests of the fund and its investors. The objective of fund governance is to uphold the regulatory principles commonly known as the four pillars of investor protection that are typically promulgated through the investment fund regulation applicable in the jurisdiction of the fund. These principles vary by jurisdiction and in the US, the 1940 Act generally ensure that: (i) The investment fund will be managed in accordance with the fund’s investment objectives, (ii) The assets of the investment fund will be kept safe, (iii) When investors redeem they will get their pro rata share of the investment fund’s assets, (iv) The investment fund will be managed for the benefit of the fund’s shareholders and not its service providers.\n\nOffshore investment funds are typically formed as companies in the Cayman Islands (85%). When an investment fund is formed as a company, its governing body is its board of directors. In this context, fund governance is commonly referred to as “fund directorships” or “independent director services”. Offshore funds are commonly structured as a “feeder” funds that will generally invest all monies received directly into a “master” fund.\n\nOnshore investment fund are typically formed as limited partnerships (LPs) in the United States, most commonly in Delaware. These funds typically serve as the “master” fund to the offshore feeder fund. The governing body (board) of the LP is its general partner (GP) which is usually under the sole control and direction of the investment manager or fund sponsor. This structure is increasingly being challenged by institutional investors and other stakeholders to implement more independent governance and investor friendly mechanisms typically in the form of advisory boards or independent GPs or managing members.\n\nInvestment funds can also be formed as unit trusts with a board of trustees as its governing body.\n\nThe role of fund governance comprises both fiduciary duties and responsibilities owed by the governing body (board).\nFiduciary duties are prescribed by the applicable laws of the fund’s jurisdiction and are inviolable. Responsibilities are prescribed through contractual terms in the various fund documents. Fund governance responsibilities can vary widely between investment funds because fund documents are commonly negotiated between fund stakeholders based on their various (often competing) requirements and objectives. Although the objective of fund governance is investor protection, fiduciary duties typically require the board to act in the best interest of a fund taken as whole and not any particular investor.\n\nFund governance is often conflated with corporate governance. Although some principles and practices appear similar, there are important differences. Most notably:\n\nNot all funds are formed as corporations and the legal form of the fund structure does not remove the need for sound fund governance.\n\nUnlike corporations, investment funds typically don't have any employees to manage or lead. Corporate directors have more authority and a more complex set of duties to execute, such as approving major corporate investment and financial policies, monitoring diverse accounting systems, and selecting and terminating top corporate executives. Compared to hedge funds, the regulatory and competitive issues facing each company are highly idiosyncratic. Investment funds operate by appointing service providers under service agreements with the fund and each service provider is governed by its own governing body independently of the fund. This means that fund directors do not have any authority to direct the affairs of the service providers to the fund other than under the contractual responsibilities outlined in the service agreement. Day-to-day managerial responsibilities are typically delegated to the investment manager and fund administrator. Compared to large corporations, hedge funds are relatively homogenous, and the duties of their directors are relatively limited and standardized. These factors should reduce the required time investment and increase the scalability of the director's human capital such that it can be employed efficiently across many funds.\n\nCorporations offer their shares publicly and widely typically with no qualification requirements. Funds offer their shares privately on a restricted basis to sophisticated investors.\n\nCorporations don’t have a rulebook (like an offering memorandum) or delegated structure so corporate directors are responsible for formulating and implementing strategy to ensure the success of the corporation. Corporate directors have a dual role of adviser and monitor, but this is not the case in a fund. Fund directors typically serve as a monitor since the fund is usually formed to pursue the investment objective defined by the investment manager as negotiated and agreed in the fund documents by its various stakeholders. Fund directors will typically not have any responsibility for the investment strategy as the investment manager is not an employee of the fund unlike the CEO in a corporation. Thus, “the advisory role of hedge fund directors is limited when compared to that of corporate directors. For example, hedge fund directors do not advise the manager on portfolio strategy or security selection.\n\nFund governance became a major fund servicing industry following the 2008 financial crisis “spurred (by) several media reports arguing that professional directors must be too busy to provide the appropriate level of monitoring for their clients.” Consequently, many fund governance firms proliferated in response to perceived demand for independent directors for hedge funds and the low barriers to entry evident in the industry. A ‘gold rush’ mentality developed worldwide after articles by the Financial Times and the New York Times sensationalized fund directors in the Cayman Islands as having ‘hundreds’ of directorships. Serving as a fund director was portrayed as a sinecure because anyone, anywhere in the world, could serve as a director on a Cayman Islands mutual fund (the FT articles were later critiqued by the \"Columbia Journalism Review\"). In response to this critical media scrutiny, the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority implemented a number of reforms under the Director Registration and Licensing Law, 2014 which required all directors of Cayman Islands regulated mutual funds to become regulated. As of 31 May 2015, the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority reported that there were 8,879 directors on Cayman Islands funds of which only 422 were based in the Cayman Islands.\n\nFund governance providers range from limited-resourced, proprietorships of part-time directors (or so-called ‘boutique’ firms) to fully resourced professional services firms of full-time directors, “organized similarly to large law or accounting firms”. In many parts of the world, serving as a fund director remains a cottage industry where proponents argue that fund governance is different from the other services provided to the fund and not adaptable to the professional firm approach. This mindset appears to be supported by the law in several jurisdictions that mandate that only “natural persons” provide director services. Opponents of the proprietor approach argue that boards should not be “dominated by part-timers at a time when they need to be vigilant about avoiding future crises” and that professional funds “would never buy legal services or management advice from people only willing to spare a few hours a month”.\n\nProfessional fund governance firms are also referred to as Board Service Providers (BSPs). Proponents argue that directors are independent service providers to a fund equivalent to its auditors, administrators and attorneys, all of whom use a professional firm approach and the same professional standards and expectations should also apply to fund governance. In the U.K. all professional investment funds are required by law to appoint a BSP as an Authorised Corporate Director. In the United States of America, BSPs are not required by law, but the SEC does “require funds to explicitly authorize the independent directors to hire employees and to retain advisers and experts necessary to carry out their duties”\n\nPost-financial crisis and several spectacular fund governance failures, there has been much debate among fund directors worldwide about whether the proprietorship or professional firm approach is best for a professional fund. The matter has also been studied extensively by leading independent academic researchers at the Stanford Law Review, University of Kentucky and University of Cambridge among many others. Collectively these independent studies shattered many of the myths about professional fund governance and consistently supported the professional firm model over the proprietor model. Currently there is no independent research that supports the proprietorship model. In the Stanford Law Review, the authors argue “we know of no other service provided for corporations that is obligated by law to be performed by a sole proprietorship, and for good reason. Lawyers, consultants, accountants, doctors, and so on, all associate with each other to form corporate entities to provide their services for a host of well understood reasons\".\n\nEmpirical and anecdotal evidence from other fund services providers such as legal, administration and audit also supports the professional firm approach and it continues to dominate the professional fund industry. As such professional fund governance firms have the “economies of scale to attract the best board members, introduce more rigorous training programs and develop the best proprietary knowledge” plus economies of scale and scope allow firms to increase quality and/or lower cost by finding efficiencies in production, spreading fixed costs across a larger asset base and investing in technology. Independent researchers further argue that BSPs bring “collective expertise, from the ability to process huge quantities of information to specialist advice” use the power of technology for business intelligence, process management and information access to make fast and accurate decisions.\n\nThe Bear Stearns case is widely regarded as the seminal case of legal counsel conflicts among hedge fund directors. Investors in the funds lost approximately $1.6 billion and “the two supposedly independent directors appointed by Walkers to serve Cioffi’s two hedge funds were Scott Lennon and Michelle Wilson-Clarke” were found by the Cayman Islands court to be conflicted as they were employees of an affiliate of Walkers. In his judgment the Chief Justice of the Cayman Islands said “For reasons which I need not elaborate now (but would be prepared to if asked), I am led to an irresistible impression that the manner of the conduct of the directors, trustee and the lawyers advising them” — all Walkers employees — “over the resolutions for winding up was clandestine and suspicious and was certainly in breach of the strict prohibition — against such a resolution being taken during the pendancy of the investors’ petition for the removal of the directors.\"\n\nDuring the 1980s, Sark was notorious for the emergence of the so-called “nominee director” practice i.e. where the director is in name only and does not exercise his judgment independently but rather acts like an automaton under the control of another person. \nThe most infamous example was in 1999, when Guinness world record holder and Sark resident Phil Crowshaw was found to have singlehandedly held 3,378 directorships registered in Sark, 1,312 registered directorships in England and more than 2,000 directorships registered in Dublin and Isle of Man. He was later disqualified as a director by courts in Guernsey and the U.K. yet he was only one of “a group of residents who between them held directorships of thousands of companies scattered far and wide”. These individuals were engaged in “the totally unacceptable practice of renting out their names as company directors without any real knowledge of what the companies are up to.” \nIn response Jack Straw, the Home Secretary commissioned Andrew Edwards, former UK Treasury director to investigate these practices among Britain’s offshore dependencies. In 1998, the Edwards report called for various reforms including that “Guernsey, Alderney and Sark should introduce a system of licensing and registering directors and bring in a code of conduct governing the standards expected from directors and trustees.” The Edwards report “also called for a limit to be set on the number of directorships held by individuals, suggesting a ceiling of five trading companies or 30 asset-holding (fund) companies”. The Sark Lark ignited the debate about director capacity and the backlash against independent directors in offshore jurisdictions. It was the genesis of the now discredited notion that caps on directorships would improve director performance or the number of directorships held is a proxy for director performance. Several jurisdictions arbitrarily introduced caps on director capacity based on the Edwards report. However, as recently as November, 2012, BBC reported that the Sark Lark was still thriving.\n\nThe Weavering case was widely regarded as the seminal case on hedge fund directors’ duties and responsibilities. The Weavering Macro Fixed Income Fund Limited was listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and its directors Stefan Peterson and Hans Ekstrom were considered independent and in good standing under the Irish Stock Exchange standards. However, they were later found guilty by a Cayman Islands Court of being negligent in carrying out their fiduciary duties, and were held liable for US $111 million in damages. The case was reversed on appeal and currently pending appeal to the Privy Council. The Weavering Capital Scandal became notorious because the Managing Director of the UK Management Company, Magnus Peterson, was jailed for 13 years on 8 counts of Fraud in 2015 and the discovery that he had illegally used investors money to fund personal projects such as the \"Grey Wolf (Film)\".\n\nSuccessful fund governance firms have been criticized by their competitors in ‘boutique’ firms for having too many directorships or being “rubber stamp” directors. However, independent empirical research has consistently revealed these allegations as counterfactual. Some studies have used the number of directorships held by a director as a proxy for the reputational capital of the director - arguing that reputational incentives are particularly pronounced for professional hedge fund directors, and that directors who sit on more boards and the boards of better performing funds should be of higher quality. Thus, hiring a director who can be credibly perceived as being more independent could provide valuable certification for the fund. Busy professional directors are more common among funds that derive higher benefits from external certification and monitoring, and their departure from the board is associated with outflows of investor capital. This result is inconsistent with directors serving as uninformative (or most nefariously, pro-management) rubber-stamps and inconsistent with the theory that funds prefer rubber-stamp directors who face more time constraints, making them too busy to monitor the manager.\n\nAn inordinate amount of scrutiny has been placed on issue of board capacity and composition to improve board performance, but those factors may become irrelevant to boards acting in the best interests of investors if the voting shares are held by the manager. If a serious conflict arises with the manager the degree to which the board can effectively act in the best interests of the fund can be neutralized in these circumstances. The voting shares give the manager complete discretion over the appointment and removal of directors; therefore controlling board composition and the ability to veto any of its decisions. If the investment manager is dissatisfied with any decision, he can simply exercise his right to remove the director(s) and replace them with someone more amendable to the manager’s wishes.\n\nThe board requires has the right mix of skills, talent and capacity to function effectively. Proprietors and boutique firms by definition have limited resources and – by design – do not invest the time or money required to deliver the full range of resources provided by professional firms. As the large fund governance firms become more dominant, it has become common for proprietors and other boutique firms to band together, pooling their resources to create a larger ‘virtual’ or ‘pseudo’ professional firm to offer greater scale and selection to compete with the large professional firms. These alliances are commonly marketed as ‘split’ or ‘mixed’ boards. However, these loose arrangements often lack the operating discipline and reputational investment of their large professional firm counterparts. In fact, the arrangements create co-dependency for business referrals and actually create higher complexity and potential for conflicts of interests since and they are entered into primarily for commercial reasons, and not to act in the best interests of the fund. It is not uncommon for these arrangements to result in a high level of duplication and dysfunction.\n\nAll directors owe the same fiduciary duties and directors each have joint and several liability so in reality ‘split’ or ‘mixed’ boards is a marketing aphorism and distinction without a difference. Independent research has found that professional firms of quality directors have large reputational investment with high incentive to perform well and consistently outperform proprietorships. This research found that “directors from a top ten firm are almost twice as likely as directors from smaller firms to obtain a new directorship.” This implies that directors are even more likely to be hired when their firm has a larger client base, and thus more reputational capital to protect. The single firm focus is counterfactual to the risk analysis. Unquestionably the area of greatest risk within any fund is within its investment portfolio. Enormous authority over the fund affairs is often entrusted to the investment manager as a single individual, from a single firm, yet it would be universally accepted to be counterproductive and inefficient to appoint another manager from a different firm to manage the same portfolio at the same time, or another auditor from different firm to audit the same fund at the same time. It is not obvious, other than the aforementioned marketing reason, why any one believes that appointing directors from different firms is an effective mechanism for eliciting independent judgment and deliberation than those doing the deciding work for a (single) firm instead.\n\nBoards are small organizations but like all organizations they need effective leadership to succeed. The SEC recommends fund boards to appoint a lead director and it has become an industry leading practice for many fund boards to appoint a lead director to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the board. The lead director may schedule, set and prioritize board meeting agendas and make sure the board receives reports from management on essential matters. The lead director may also be the chief contact for the board’s counsel or the fund's auditors (or other service providers). If the lead director is an independent director, he or she may represent the other independent directors in discussions with the fund management. SEC also recommends directors employ staff.\n\n"}
{"id": "26395910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26395910", "title": "GNSS positioning calculation", "text": "GNSS positioning calculation\n\nThe global navigation satellite system (GNSS) positioning for receiver's position is derived through the calculation steps, or algorithm, given below. \nIn essence, a GNSS receiver measures the transmitting time of GNSS signals emitted from four or more GNSS satellites and these measurements are used to obtain its position (i.e., spatial coordinates) and reception time.\n\n\n\n\nin which formula_35 is the orbital eccentric anomaly of satellite formula_36, formula_37 is the mean anomaly, formula_38 is the eccentricity, and formula_39.\nformula_42\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1230829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230829", "title": "Gender roles in Mesoamerica", "text": "Gender roles in Mesoamerica\n\nGender roles in Mesoamerica were compleentary in nature, meaning that men and women had separate but equally important roles in society. Evidence also suggests the existence of gender ambiguity and fluidity in pre-Columbian Mesoamerican societies. Gender relations and roles also varied among different Mesoamerican cultures and societies, through time, and depending on social status. Mesoamerica or Meso-America (Spanish: Mesoamérica) is a region and culture area in the Americas, extending approximately from central Mexico to Honduras and Nicaragua, within which a number of pre-Columbian societies flourished before the Spanish colonization of the Americas in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nBoys, for example, are given toys to play with that establish their future mascpresenting their future economic roles. The stereotype that women play a minimal role in the family is far from accurate. Although women's roles in agriculture have been underestimated, if it were not for the contributions of women in agriculture, the family would not survive.\n\nWith the arrival of the Spanish and their subsequent colonial rule starting in the 16th century, Mesoamerican gender relations could no longer be considered distinct cultural practices. Gender roles and gender relations instead became subject to the practices of Spanish colonial rule and the casta system which racially categorized the Mesoamericans and their indigenous and mixed descendants. However, despite suppression by Spanish colonialization, aspects of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican gender roles have survived in indigenous communities to this day.\n\nPre-Columbian Mesoamerican art contains evidence of a gendered division of labor, depicting women engaged in domestic labor such as weaving, childrearing, tending to animals, and giving birth. Weaving was more strongly associated with gender for the Classic Mexica than the Classic Maya, for which it indicated class. Men were depicted with weapons and in positions of religious and political authority. While evidence suggests that farming was seen as a male activity, the gendered divisions of labor may not have been so strict. Analysis of the bones of women revealed evidence of wear patterns strongly associated with the repetitive motion of grinding maize, suggesting women were primarily engaged in that labor. Anthropologists such as Miranda Stockett believe it is likely that men, women, and children all participated in farming and domestic labor to varying degrees.\n\nWomen also hold a variety of roles within the family. These range from harvesting the grains and preparing the food for the family, to taking care of the domesticated animals. When examining the role women play in planting and harvesting, one notices that this area still holds some stereotypes with how the women aid their husbands. In some societies women are responsible for sowing and harvesting the crops but are restricted from ploughing. The roles shared between men and women in agriculture in Santa Rosa, Yucatán. Although women are allocated such tasks as sowing, with all its association with fertility, they are rigidly excluded from ploughing. The significance of not allowing women to plough is related to human reproduction. The common belief is that women should not be able to plough because it invades on the male’s role in human reproduction. Thus, men are able to carry out all stages of the agriculture cycle, including the planting of the seed, while women—even in their role as head of the household—are sanctioned to rely upon men for particular tasks. The reasoning behind limiting women’s roles with production of the crops is directly related to reproduction. Women rely on men for some tasks when planting crops, just as women need the assistance of the men in reproduction.\n\nAside from producing food, another important task that women carry out is food preparation, which demands the most attention because the women must sit by the hearth for long periods of time. In the role women have in the preparation of maize, after the grains have been harvested, the next step is to process them so the family can consume them. Apart from childbearing and childrearing, one of the women’s foremost duties was the processing of dried corn into maize flour. After being boiled with lime, softened maize kernels were ground with a tubular hand stone on a flat grinding stone (metate) into maize dough. Once the dough is formed, a variety of food items can be made. Here the metate plays an important role in the processing of maize, the staple crop of the culture.\n\nWomen play an important role in the survival of their families because the family survives from the work they perform in the corral.\n\nAdditionally, the success of Mesoamerican rituals was dependent on the production of food and textiles, to which women contributed much labor. These rituals were vital to ensuring good relationships with not only the gods but also within communities. In \"Relación de las cosas de Yucatán,\" Diego de Landa observed that for nearly all rituals, Mayan women were responsible for preparing food for both offerings and consumption in addition to cloth as offerings.\n\nGender relations among the Mexica also suggested gender complementarity. For example, dying in battle and dying in childbirth elevated men and women respectively. In childbirth, women confront the goddess Cihuacoatl, and if they died, their bodies were considered temporarily imbued with the power of the goddess. Since parts of their bodies could be used as a protective amulet or to curse others, the husband kept vigil by her body for four nights.\n\nSome Mesoamerican women were able to assume roles as political leaders, such as women in Maya society, others such as women in Mexica society were not. However while Mexica women couldn't serve in this capacity, they were given equal legal and economy rights and noble Mexica women could become priestesses. Additionally, two influential political figures headed the highest levels of Mexica government. One was the \"tlatoani\", literally \"the one who speaks\", and another was the \"cihuacoatl\", literally \"woman snake\", both representing a male/female pair. The \"tlatoani\" was responsible for military affairs and the \"cihuacoatl\" was responsible for domestic affairs like the food supply and administering justice. The position of \"cihuacoatl\" was in reality occupied by a man, but the associations with femininity were significant enough that the \"cihuacoatl\", of the same name as the goddess, wore women's dress for ceremonies. As Mesoamerican states became more centralized over time, men's power became more associated with their control over women and their capacity for productive and reproductive labor. As a result, opportunities available to women were gradually limited. In the case of the Mexica, military concerns may have eclipsed women's public significance.\n\nAlthough pre-Columbian Mesoamerican art contained depictions of the body as male or female as represented by genitalia or secondary sex characteristics, it also included representations of bodies with exposed chests and waists but no visible sexual characteristics. Depictions of rituals conducted by elite Mesoamericans have included women dressed in the traditional costume of men and men dressed in the traditional costume of women. Classic Maya text also includes situations where gender is not linguistically marked or where gender is marked linguistically as male for a speaker who appears to be a woman or vice versa. This evidence suggests considerable fluidity between the genders in pre-Columbian Mesoamerican society.\n\n"}
{"id": "33474082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33474082", "title": "Global Sales Law Project", "text": "Global Sales Law Project\n\nThe Global Sales Law Project is a research project based at the University of Basel under the leadership of Ingeborg Schwenzer. It compares the sales and contract laws of more than 60 jurisdictions.\n\nThe centerpiece of the project is the Global Sales and Contract Law handbook, authored by Ingeborg Schwenzer together with Christopher Kee and Pascal Hachem. The work provides a comprehensive systematic analysis based on the functional comparative method. Particularly remarkable about the book is the approach of research in so far as the comparison is completely based on the functional comparative method rather than on the basis of separate country reports. The authors based their work on the doctoral theses of Mohamed Hafez (Arabia and the Middle East), Natia Lapiashvili (Eastern Europe and Central Asia), Edgardo Muñoz (Latin America), Jean Alain Penda Matipe (Central and Southern Africa), and Sophia Juan Yang (Southeast Asia). Each of these theses was a comparative legal work on one family of legal systems and all of them were supervised by Schwenzer.\n\nAlso part of the Global Sales Law Project is the leading commentary on the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (CISG), edited by Ingeborg Schwenzer. The commentary is published in German (5th edition), English (3rd edition), and Spanish (1st edition). It is currently being translated to Mandarin Chinese.\n\nCISG-online is the only comprehensive database in the German-speaking world on CISG case law and as such also part of the project.\n"}
{"id": "320336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320336", "title": "Hand axe", "text": "Hand axe\n\nA hand axe (or handaxe) is a prehistoric stone tool with two faces that is the longest-used tool in human history. It is usually made from flint or chert. It is characteristic of the lower Acheulean and middle Palaeolithic (Mousterian) periods. Its technical name (biface) comes from the fact that the archetypical model is generally bifacial Lithic flake and almond-shaped (amygdaloidal). Hand axes tend to be symmetrical along their longitudinal axis and formed by pressure or percussion. The most common hand axes have a pointed end and rounded base, which gives them their characteristic shape, and both faces have been knapped to remove the natural cortex, at least partially. Hand axes are a type of the somewhat wider biface group of two-faced tools or weapons.\n\nHand axes were the first prehistoric tools to be recognized as such: the first published representation of a hand axe was drawn by John Frere and appeared in a British publication in 1800. Until that time, their origins were thought to be natural or supernatural. They were called \"thunderstones\", because popular tradition held that they had fallen from the sky during storms or were formed inside the earth by a lightning strike and then appeared at the surface. They are used in some rural areas as an amulet to protect against storms.\n\nHand axe tools were possibly used to butcher animals; to dig for tubers, animals and water; to chop wood and remove tree bark; to throw at prey; and as a source for flake tools.\nFour classes of hand axe are:\n\n\nWhile Class 4 hand axes are referred to as \"formalized tools\", bifaces from any stage of a lithic reduction sequence may be used as tools. (Other biface typologies make five divisions rather than four).\n\nFrench antiquarian André Vayson de Pradenne introduced the word in 1920. This term co-exists with the more popular \"hand axe\" (\"coup de poing\"), that was coined by Louis Laurent Gabriel de Mortillet much earlier, The continued use of the word biface by François Bordes and Lionel Balout supported its use in France and Spain, where it replaced the term \"hand axe\". Use of the expression \"hand axe\" has continued in English as the equivalent of the French \"biface\" (\"bifaz\" in Spanish), while biface applies more generally for any piece that has been carved on both sides by the removal of shallow or deep flakes. The expression is used in German. It can be literally translated as hand axe, although in a stricter sense it means \"fist wedge\". It is the same in Dutch where the expression used is \"vuistbijl\" which literally means \"fist axe\". The same locution occurs in other languages.\n\nHowever, the general impression of these tools were based on ideal (or classic) pieces that were of such perfect shape that they caught the attention of non-experts. Their typology broadened the term's meaning. Biface hand axe and bifacial lithic items are distinguished. A hand axe need not be a bifacial item and many bifacial items are not hand axes. Nor were hand axes and bifacial items exclusive to the Lower Palaeolithic period in the Old World. They appear throughout the world and in many different pre-historical epochs, without necessarily implying an ancient origin. Lithic typology is not a reliable chronological reference and was abandoned as a dating system. Examples of this include the \"quasi-bifaces\" that sometimes appear in strata from the Gravettian, Solutrean and Magdalenian periods in France and Spain, the crude bifacial pieces of the Lupemban culture (9000 B. C.) or the pyriform tools found near Sagua La Grande in Cuba. The word \"biface\" refers to something different in English than \"biface\" in French or \"bifaz\" in Spanish, which could lead to many misunderstandings. Bifacially carved cutting tools, similar to hand axes, were used to clear scrub vegetation throughout the Neolithic and Chalcolithic periods. These tools are similar to more modern adzes and were a cheaper alternative to polished axes. The modern day villages along the Sepik river in New Guinea continue to use tools that are virtually identical to hand axes to clear forest. \"The term \"biface\" should be reserved for items from before the Würm II-III interstadial\", although certain later objects could \"exceptionally\" be called bifaces.\n\n\"Hand axe\" does not relate to \"axe\", which was overused in lithic typology to describe a wide variety of stone tools. At the time the use of such items was not understood. In the particular case of Palaeolithic hand axes the term axe is an inadequate description. Lionel Balout stated, \"the term should be rejected as an erroneous interpretation of these objects that are not 'axes. Subsequent studies supported this idea, particularly those examining the signs of use.\n\nHand axes are mainly made of flint, but rhyolites, phonolites, quartzites and other coarse rocks were used as well. Obsidian, natural volcanic glass, shatters easily and was rarely used.\n\nMost hand axes have a sharp border all around, No academic consensus describes their use. The pioneers of Palaeolithic tool studies first suggested that bifaces were used as axes or at least for use in demanding physical activities. Other uses showed that hand axes were a multi-functional tool. The different forms and shapes of known specimens led them to be described as the Acheulean \"Swiss Army knife\". Each type of tool could have been used for multiple tasks. \nWells proposed in 1899 that hand axes were used as missile weapons to hunt prey – an interpretation supported by Calvin, who suggested that some of the rounder specimens of Acheulean hand axes were used as hunting projectiles or as \"killer frisbees\" meant to be thrown at a herd of animals at a water hole so as to stun one of them. This assertion was inspired by findings from the Olorgesailie archaeological site in Kenya. Few specimens indicate hand axe hafting, and some are too large for that use. However, few hand axes show signs of heavy damage indicative of throwing. \n\nIn addition, as hand axes can be recycled, resharpened and remade, they could have been used for varied tasks. For this reason it is misleading to think of them as \"axes\", they could have been used for tasks such as digging, cutting, scraping, chopping, piercing and hammering. In addition, and given their mass, they may be used as a lithic core to obtain flakes that could be used as knives or transformed for specialized uses through retouching.\n\nBaker suggested that the hand axe was not itself a tool, but a core from which flakes had been removed and used as tools (flake core theory). However, hand axes are often found with retouching such as sharpening or shaping, casting doubt on this idea.\n\nOther theories suggest the shape is part tradition and part by-product of its manufacture. Many early hand axes appear to be made from simple rounded pebbles (from river or beach deposits). It is necessary to detach a 'starting flake', often much larger than the rest of the flakes (due to the oblique angle of a rounded pebble requiring greater force to detach it), thus creating an asymmetry. Correcting the asymmetry by removing material from the other faces, encouraged a more pointed (oval) form factor. (Knapping a completely circular hand axe requires considerable correction of the shape.) Studies in the 1990s at Boxgrove, in which a butcher attempted to cut up a carcass with a hand axe, revealed that the hand axe was able to expose bone marrow.\n\nKohn and Mithen independently arrived at the explanation that symmetric hand axes were favoured by sexual selection as fitness indicators. Kohn in his book \"As We Know It\" wrote that the hand axe is \"a highly visible indicator of fitness, and so becomes a criterion of mate choice.\" Miller followed their example and said that hand axes have characteristics that make them subject to sexual selection, such as that they were made for over a million years throughout Africa, Europe and Asia, they were made in large numbers, and most were impractical for utilitarian use. He claimed that a single design persisting across time and space cannot be explained by cultural imitation and draws a parallel between bowerbirds' bowers (built to attract potential mates and used only during courtship) and Pleistocene hominids' hand axes. He called hand axe building a \"genetically inherited propensity to construct a certain type of object.\" He discards the idea that they were used as missile weapons because more efficient weapons were available, such as javelins. Although he accepted that some hand axes may have been used for practical purposes, he agreed with Kohn and Mithen who showed that many hand axes show considerable skill, design and symmetry beyond that needed for utility. Some were too big, such as the hand axe found in Furze Platt, England that is over a foot long. Some were too small - less than two inches. Some feature symmetry beyond practical requirements and show evidence of unnecessary attention to form and finish. Miller thinks that the most important clue is that under electron microscopy hand axes show no signs of use or evidence of edge wear. Furthermore, hand axes can be good handicaps in Zahavi's handicap principle theory: learning costs are high, risks of injury, they require physical strength, hand-eye coordination, planning, patience, pain tolerance and resistance to infection from cuts and bruises when making or using such a hand axe.\n\nThe use-wear analysis of Palaeolithic hand axes is carried out on findings from emblematic sites across nearly all of Western Europe. Keeley and Semenov were the pioneers of this specialized investigation. Keeley stated, \"The morphology of typical hand axes suggests a greater range of potential activities than those of flakes\".\n\nMany problems need to be overcome in carrying out this type of analysis. One is the difficulty in observing larger pieces with a microscope. Of the millions of known pieces, few have been thoroughly studied. Another arises from the clear evidence that the same tasks were performed more effectively using utensils made from flakes:\nKeeley based his observations on archaeological sites in England. He proposed that in base settlements where it was possible to predict future actions and where greater control on routine activities was common, the preferred tools were made from specialized flakes, such as racloirs, backed knives, scrapers and punches. However, hand axes were more suitable on expeditions and in seasonal camps, where unforeseen tasks were more common. Their main advantage in these situations was the lack of specialization and adaptability to multiple eventualities. A hand axe has a long blade with different curves and angles, some sharper and others more resistant, including points and notches. All of this is combined in one tool. Given the right circumstances, it is possible to make use of loose flakes. In the same book, Keeley states that a number of the hand axes studied were used as knives to cut meat (such as hand axes from Hoxne and Caddington). He identified that the point of another hand axe had been used as a clockwise drill. This hand axe came from Clacton-on-Sea (all of these sites are located in the east of England). Toth reached similar conclusions for pieces from the Spanish site in Ambrona (Soria). Analysis carried out by Domínguez-Rodrigo and co-workers on the primitive Acheulean site in Peninj (Tanzania) on a series of tools dated 1.5 mya shows clear microwear produced by plant phytoliths, suggesting that the hand axes were used to work wood.\nSome hand axes were used with force that left clearly visible marks. Other visible marks can be left as the scars from retouching, on occasion it is possible to distinguish them from marks left by the initial manufacture. One of the most common cases is when a point breaks. This was seen at sites in Europe, Africa and Asia. One example comes from the El Basalito site in Salamanca, where excavation uncovered fragments of a hand axe with marks at the tip that appeared to be the result of the action of a wedge, which would have subjected the object to high levels of torsion that broke the tip. A break or extreme wear can affect a tool's point or any other part. Such wear was reworked by means of a secondary working as discussed above. In some cases this reconstruction is easily identifiable and was carried out using techniques such as the \"coup de tranchet\" (French, meaning \"tranchet blow\"), or simply with scale or scalariform retouches that alter an edge's symmetry and line.\nThe most characteristic and common shape is a pointed area at one end, cutting edges along its side and a rounded base (this includes hand axes with a lanceolate and amygdaloidal shape as well as others from the family). Hand axes display a variety of shapes, including circular, triangular and elliptical--calling in to question the contention that they had a constant and only symbolic significance. They are typically between long, although they can be bigger or smaller.\n\nThey were typically made from a rounded stone, a block or lithic flake, using a hammer to remove flakes from both sides of the item. This hammer can be made of hard stone, or of wood or antler. The latter two, softer hammers can produce more delicate results. However, a hand axe's technological aspect can reflect more differences. For example, uniface tools have only been worked on one side and partial bifaces retain a high proportion of the natural cortex of the tool stone, often making them easy to confuse with chopping tools. Further, simple bifaces may have been created from a suitable tool stone, but they rarely show evidence of retouching.\n\nIn summary, hand axes are recognized by many typological schools under different archaeological paradigms and are quite recognisable (at least the most typical examples). However, they have not been definitively categorized. Stated more formally, the idealised model combines a series of well-defined properties, but no set of these properties are necessary or sufficient to identify a hand axe.\nThe oldest known Oldowan tools were found in Gona, Ethiopia. These are dated to about 2.6 mya.\n\nEarly examples of hand axes date back to 1.6 mya in the later Oldowan (Mode I), called the \"developed Oldowan\" by Mary Leakey. These hand axes became more abundant in mode II Acheulean industries that appeared in Southern Ethiopia around 1.4 mya. Some of the best specimens come from 1.2 mya deposits in Olduvai Gorge. They are known in Mousterian industries.\n\nBy 1.8 mya early man was present in Europe. Remains of their activities were excavated in Spain at sites in the Guadix-Baza basin and near Atapuerca. Most early European sites yield \"mode 1\" or Oldowan assemblages. The earliest Acheulean sites in Europe appear around 0.5 mya. In addition, the Acheulean tradition did not spread to Eastern Asia. In Europe and particularly in France and England, the oldest hand axes appear after the Beestonian Glaciation–Mindel Glaciation, approximately 750,000 years ago, during the so-called \"Cromerian complex\". They became more widely produced during the Abbevillian tradition.\n\nThe apogee of hand axe manufacture took place in a wide area of the Old World, especially during the Riss glaciation, in a cultural complex that can be described as \"cosmopolitan\" and which is known as the Acheulean. The use of hand axes survived the Middle Palaeolithic in a much smaller area and were especially important during the Mousterian, up to the middle of the Last glacial period.\n\nHand axes dating from the lower Palaeolithic were found on the Asian continent, on the Indian subcontinent and in the Middle East (to the south of parallel 40° N), but they were absent from the area to the east of the 90° E meridian. Movius designated a border (the so-called Movius Line) between the cultures that used hand axes to the west and those that made chopping tools and small retouched lithic flakes, such as were made by Peking man and the Ordos culture in China, or their equivalents in Indochina such as the Hoabinhian. However, Movius hypothesis was found incorrect when many hand axes made in Palaeolithic era were found in 1978 at Hantan River, Jeongok, South Korea for the first time in East Asia. Some of them are exhibited at the Jeongok Prehistory Museum, South Korea.\n\nThe Padjitanian culture from Java was traditionally thought to be the only oriental culture to manufacture hand axes. However, a site in Baise, China shows that hand axes were made in eastern Asia.\n\nIn North America, hand axes make up one of the dominant tool industries, starting from the terminal Pleistocene and continuing throughout the Holocene. For example, the Folsom point and Clovis point traditions (collectively known as the fluted points) are associated with Paleo Indians, some of the first people to colonize the new world. Hand axe technology is almost unknown in Australian prehistory.\n\nExperiments in knapping have demonstrated the relative ease with which a hand axe can be made, which could help explain their success. In addition, they demand relatively little maintenance and allow a choice of raw materials–any rock will suffice that supports a conchoidal fracture. It is easy to improvise their manufacture and correct mistakes without requiring detailed planning. No long or demanding apprenticeship is necessary to learn the necessary techniques. These factors combine to allow these objects to remain in use throughout pre-history. Their adaptability makes them effective in a variety of tasks, from heavy duty such as digging in soil, felling trees or breaking bones to delicate such as cutting ligaments, slicing meat or perforating a variety of materials.\n\nLastly, a hand axe represents a prototype that can be refined giving rise to more developed, specialised and sophisticated tools such as the tips of various projectiles, knives, adzes and hatchets.\n\nGiven the typological difficulties in defining the essence of a hand axe, it is important when analysing them to take account of their archaeological context (geographical location, stratigraphy, the presence of other elements associated with the same level, chronology etc.). It is necessary to study their physical state to establish any natural alterations that may have occurred: patina, shine, wear and tear, mechanical, thermal and / or physical-chemical changes such as cracking, in order to distinguish these factors from the scars left during the tool's manufacture or use.\n\nThe raw material is an important factor, because of the result that can be obtained by working it and in order to reveal the economy and movement of prehistoric humans. In the Olduvai Gorge the raw materials were most readily available some ten kilometres from the nearest settlements. However, flint or silicate is readily available on the fluvial terraces of Western Europe. This means that different strategies were required for the procurement and use of available resources. The supply of materials was the most important factor in the manufacturing process as Palaeolithic artisans were able to adapt their methods to available materials, obtaining adequate results from even the most difficult raw materials. Despite this it is important to study the rock's grain, texture, the presence of joints, veins, impurities or shatter cones etc.\n\nIn order to study the use of individual items it is necessary to look for traces of wear such as pseudo-retouches, breakage or wear, including areas that are polished. If the item is in a good condition it is possible to submit it to use-wear analysis, which is discussed in more detail below. Apart from these generalities, which are common to all carved archaeological pieces, hand axes need a technical analysis of their manufacture and a morphological analysis.\n\nThe technical analysis of a hand axe tries to discover each of the phases in its \"chaîne opératoire\" (operational sequence). The chain is highly flexible, as a toolmaker may focus narrowly on just one of the sequence's links or equally on each link. The links examined in this type of study start with the extraction methods of the raw material, then include the actual manufacture of the item, its use, maintenance throughout its working life, and finally its disposal.\n\nA toolmaker may put a lot of effort into finding the highest quality raw material or the most suitable tool stone. In this way more effort is invested in obtaining a good foundation, but time is saved on shaping the stone: that is, the effort is focused on the start of the operational chain. Equally the artisan may concentrate the most effort in the manufacture so that the quality or suitability of the raw material is less important. This will minimize the initial effort, but will result in a greater effort at the end of the operational chain.\n\nHand axes are most commonly made from rounded pebbles or nodules, but many are also made from a large flake. Hand axes made from flakes first appeared at the start of the Acheulean period and became more common with time. Manufacturing a hand axe from a flake is actually easier than from a pebble. It is also quicker, as flakes are more likely to be closer to the desired shape. This allows easier manipulation and fewer knaps are required to finish the tool; it is also easier to obtain straight edges. When analysing a hand axe made from a flake, it should be remembered that its shape was predetermined (by use of the Levallois technique or Kombewa technique or similar). Notwithstanding this, it is necessary to note a tool's characteristics: type of flake, heel, knap direction.\n\nThe natural external cortex or \"rind\" of the tool stone, which is due to erosion and the physical-chemical alterations of weathering, is different from the stone's interior. In the case of chert, quartz or quartzite, this alteration is basically mechanical, and apart from the colour and the wear it has the same characteristics as the interior in terms of hardness, toughness etc. However, flint is surrounded by a limestone cortex that is soft and unsuitable for stone tools. As hand axes are made from a tool stone's core, it is normal to indicate the thickness and position of the cortex in order to better understand the techniques that are required in their manufacture. The variation in cortex between utensils should not be taken as an indication of their age.\n\nMany partially-worked hand axes do not require further work in order to be effective tools. They can be considered to be simple hand axes. Less suitable tool stone requires more thorough working. In some specimens the cortex is unrecognisable due to the complete working that it has undergone, which has eliminated any vestige of the original cortex.\n\nIt is possible to distinguish multiple types of hand axe:\n\n\n\nOlder hand axes were produced by direct percussion with a stone hammer and can be distinguished by their thickness and a sinuous border. Mousterian hand axes were produced with a soft billet of antler or wood and are much thinner, more symmetrical and have a straight border. An experienced flintknapper needs less than 15 minutes to produce a good quality hand axe. A simple hand axe can be made from a beach pebble in less than 3 minutes.\n\nThe manufacturing process employs lithic reduction. This phase is commonly thought of as the most important in hand axe fabrication, although it is not always used, such as for hand axes made from flakes or a suitable tool stone. An important concern is the implement that has been used to form the biface. If multiple implements were used, it is essential to discover in what order they were used and the result obtained by each one.The most common implements are:\nHand axes can be made without subsequent reworking of the edges. A hammerstone was the most common percussive tool used during the Acheulean. The resulting artefact is usually easily recognizable given its size and irregular edges, as the removed flakes leave pronounced percussion bulbs and compression rings. A hammerstone produces a small number of flakes that are wide and deep leaving long edges on the tool as their highly concave form yields curving edges. The cross-section is irregular, often sub-rhombic, while the intersection between the faces forms an acute angle of between 60° and 90° degrees. The shape is similar to that of the core as the irregularities formed during knapping are not removed. The notches obtained were exploited in the production sequence. It is common that this type of manufacture yields \"partial bifaces\" (an incomplete working that leaves many areas covered with cortex), \"unifaces\" (tools that have only been worked on one face), \"bifaces in the Abbevillian style\" and \"nucleiform bifaces\". This type of manufacturing style is generally an indication of the age when a tool was made and with other archaeological data can provide a context that allows its age to be estimated.\n\nThese hand axes have a more balanced appearance as the modification consists of a second (or third) series of blows to make the piece more uniform and provide a better finish. The modification is often called retouching and is sometimes carried out using invasive retouching or using softer, marginal, shallow blows that are only applied to the most marked irregularities leaving scale-like marks. The modification of edges with a hard hammer was carried out from the beginning of the Acheulean and persisted into the Musterian. It is therefore not useful as an indicator of chronology (in order for it to be considered as a marker it has to be accompanied by other complementary and independent archaeological data). The hand axes arising from this methodology have a more classical profile with either a more symmetrical almond or oval shape and with a lower proportion of the cortex of the original core. It is not always the case that the retouching had the objective of reducing an edge's irregularities or deformities. In fact, it has been shown that in some cases the retouching was carried out to sharpen an edge that had been blunted by use or a point that had deteriorated.\n\nSome hand axes were formed with a hard hammer and finished with a soft hammer. Blows that result in deep conchoidal fractures (the first phase of manufacture) can be distinguished from features resulting from sharpening with a soft hammer. The latter leaves shallower, more distended, broader scars, sometimes with small, multiple shock waves. However, marks left by a small, hard hammer can leave similar marks to a soft hammer.\n\nSoft hammer finished pieces are usually balanced and symmetrical, and can be relatively smooth. Soft hammer works first appeared in the Acheulean period, allowing tools with these markings to be used as a \"post quem\" estimation, but with no greater precision. The main advantage of a soft hammer is that a flintknapper is able to remove broader, thinner flakes with barely developed heels, which allows a cutting edge to be maintained or even improved with minimal raw material wastage. However, a high-quality raw material is required to make their use effective. No studies compare the two methods in terms of yield per unit weight of raw material, or the difference in energy use. The use of a soft hammer requires greater use of force by the flintknapper and a steeper learning curve, although it offers more flakes for less raw material.\n\nHand axes made using only a soft hammer are much less common. In most cases at least initial work was done with a hard hammer, before subsequent flaking with a soft hammer erased all vestiges of that work. A soft hammer is not suitable for all types of percussion platform and it cannot be used on certain types of raw material. It is, therefore, necessary to start with a hard hammer or with a flake as a core as its edge will be fragile (flat, smooth pebbles are also useful). This means that although it was possible to manufacture a hand axe using a soft hammer, it is reasonable to suppose that a hard hammer was used to prepare a \"blank\" followed by one or more phases of retouching to finish the piece. However, the degree of separation between the phases is not certain, as the work could have been carried out in one operation.\n\nWorking with a soft hammer allows a knapper greater control of the knapping and reduces waste of the raw material, allowing the production of longer, sharper, more uniform edges that will increase the tool's working life. Hand axes made with a soft hammer are usually more symmetrical and smooth, with rectilinear edges and shallow indentations that are broad and smooth so that it is difficult to distinguish where one flake starts and another ends. They generally have a regular biconvex cross-section and the intersection of the two faces forms an edge with an acute angle, usually of around 30°. They were worked with great skill and therefore they are more aesthetically attractive. They are usually associated with periods of highly developed tool making such as the Micoquien or the Mousterian. Soft hammer manufacturing is not reliable as the sole dating method.\n\nHand axes were created to be tools and as such they wore out, deteriorated and/or broke during use. Relics have suffered dramatic changes throughout their useful lives. It is common to find edges that have been sharpened, points that have been reconstructed and profiles that have been deformed by reworking in order to extend the piece's useful lifetime. Some tools were recycled later, leading Bordes to note that hand axes \"are sometimes found in the Upper Palaeolithic. Their presence, which is quite normal in the Perigordian I, is often due, in other levels, to the collection of Mousterian or Acheulean tools.\".\n\nHand axes have traditionally been oriented with their narrowest part upwards (presupposing that this would have been the most active part, which is not unreasonable given the many hand axes that have unworked bases). The following typological conventions are used to facilitate communication. The axis of symmetry that divides a biface in two is called the \"morphological axis.\" The \"main face\" is usually the most regular and better worked face. The \"base\" (not the \"heel\") is the bottom of the hand axe.\n\nHand axe measurements use the morphological axis as a reference and for orientation. In addition to length, width, depth, specialists have proposed a wide range of other physical quantities. The most common were proposed by Bordes and Balout:\n\n\nA and o can be used to delineate the contour's cross section and to measure the angles of the edges (provided this is not an area covered in the stone's original cortex). These angular measurements for the edges are made using a goniometer.\n\nEdge length, weight and the length of the chord described by the edges (if the piece has a transverse terminal bezel) can be measured. These measurements allow morphological and technical ratios to be established (for example, the relationship between the weight and the length of the cutting edges, or the relationship between the hammer used to form the piece and the angle obtained etc.).\n\nThe most commonly used coefficients were established by Bordes for the morphological-mathematical classification of what he called \"classic bifaces\" (Balout proposed other, similar indices):\n\n\n\nThe following guide is strongly influenced by the possibly outdated and basically morphological \"Bordes method\" classification system. This classification is particularly applicable to \"classic hand axes\", those that can be defined and catalogued by measuring dimensions and mathematical ratios, while disregarding nearly all subjective criteria. \"Distinguishing between different types of hand axes is not always easy. There is often no room for doubts, however, there are a number of cases where the difficulty is real.\" In the majority of cases, this system agrees with previously established categories (although slightly redefining them). Balout made a similar attempt at categorization.\nMany specimens defeat objective classification. Bordes created a group he called \"non-classic bifaces\" to which mathematical indexes do not apply.\n\n\nThe multi-use capability of a biface, including this type, conflicts with the technological simplicity of a cleaver, even though their morphology and function may be similar.\n\nHand axes constitute an important group artefacts from the Acheulean. They are particularly important in open air archaeological sites (Keelley suggested that they are less common in cave sites). Hand axes, chopping tools and trihedral picks are considered \"core\" utensils, which were commonly manufactured out of stones, blocks or rock nodules. However this grouping is problematic as these tools were often also fabricated from (large) flakes. Another common suggestion is to refer to flake tools as \"micro industry,\" as opposed to the more general size referred to as \"macro industry\", which includes hand axes and cleavers. However, some scrapers are as big as hand axes.\n\n\nAnother group of tools commonly associated with hand axes is the \"biface leafpoint tools\" from the Lower and Middle Palaeolithic in the Old World. The difference between the two types is based on the latter's fine, light finishing with a soft hammer and in a morphology that suggests a specific function, possibly as the point of a projectile or a knife. Representatives of these tools include well known examples from the specialized literature:\n\n\n\nThe hand axe helped establish that early humans were capable of constructing relatively sophisticated tools that also reflected a sense of aesthetics. The 19th century publications of Frere, and more importantly of Boucher de Perthes, in France, described pieces that were balanced, symmetrical and crafted with a formal purity. Vilanova i Piera published similar works in Spain. This work was continued by Pérez de Barradas and del Prado at the start of the 20th Century.\n\nAs Leroi-Gourhan explained, it is important to ask what was understood of art at the time, considering the psychologies of non-modern humans. Archaeological records documenting rapid progress towards symmetry and balance surprised Leroi-Gourha. He felt that he could recognize beauty in early prehistoric tools made during the Acheulean:\nMany authors refer only to exceptional pieces. The majority of hand axes tended to symmetry, but lack artistic appeal. Generally, only the most striking pieces are considered, mainly 19th or early 20th century collections. At that time a lack of knowledge regarding prehistoric technology prevented a recognition of human actions in these objects. Other collections were made by aficionados, whose interests were not scientific, so that they collected only objects they considered to be outstanding, abandoning humbler elements that were sometimes necessary to interpret an archaeological site. Exceptions include sites methodically studied by experts where magnificently carved, abundant hand axes caused archaeologists to express admiration for the artists:\nThe discovery in 1998 of an oval hand axe of excellent workmanship in the Sima de los Huesos in the Atapuerca Mountains mixed in with the fossil remains of \"Homo heidelbergensis\" reignited this controversy. Given that this is the only lithic remnant from this section of the site (possibly a burial ground), combined with the piece's qualities led it to receive special treatment, it was even baptized Excalibur and it became a \"star item\". However, the symbolic meaning of this example in particular, and hand axes in general, has multiplied in recent years, feeding both scientific and more general debate and literature.\n\nBasch offered this counterargument:\nParadoxically, within the wide range of Acheulean objects, hand axes are one of the simplest tools. They do not require as much planning as other types of object, generally made from flakes, that are less striking but more sophisticated.\n\nArchaeologists have evidence of hand axes that are 1.2 million years old in Melka Kunturé (Ethiopia), but the oldest, from Konso-Gardula, could be 1.9 million years old: Although it is now known that they are the heritage of a number of human species, with \"Homo ergaster\" the earliest, up until 1954 no solid evidence indicated who had fabricated hand axes: in that year, in Ternifine, Algeria, Arambourg discovered remains that he called \"Atlanthropus\", along with some hand axes. All the species associated with hand axes (from \"H. ergaster\" to H. \"neanderthalensis\") show an advanced intelligence that in some cases is accompanied by modern features such as a relatively sophisticated technology, systems to protect against inclement weather (huts, control of fire, clothing), and certain signs of spiritual awareness (early indications of art such as adorning the body, carving of bones, ritual treatment of bodies, articulated language).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27621052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27621052", "title": "Hedwig glass", "text": "Hedwig glass\n\nHedwig glasses or Hedwig beakers are a type of glass beaker originating in the Middle East or Norman Sicily and dating from the 10th-12th centuries AD. They are named after the Silesian princess Saint Hedwig (1174–1245), to whom three of them are traditionally said to have belonged. So far, a total of 14 complete glasses are known. The exact origin of the glasses is disputed, with Egypt, Iran and Syria all suggested as possible sources; if they are not of Islamic manufacture they are certainly influenced by Islamic glass. Probably made by Muslim craftsmen, some of the iconography is Christian, suggesting they may have been made for export or for Christian clients. The theory that they instead originate from Norman Sicily in the 11th century was first fully set out in a book in 2005 by Rosemarie Lierke, and has attracted some support from specialists.\n\nAll 14 of the complete Hedwig glasses so far known all have roughly the same form: they are squat, thick-walled and straight-sided with a flange around the base. They are around 14 cm high and have a diameter of nearly 14 cm. All but one are richly decorated with wheel-cut relief with hatched details.\n\nThe glasses are mostly of a smoky metal colour with a couple of greenish or yellowish glass. The decorations are in two styles: four have abstract decorations derived from Samarra Style C; another eight have zoomorphic decorations of lions, griffins and eagles and palm trees.\nThey were probably made in emulation of the rock crystal carved vessels made in Fatimid Egypt rather earlier, which were objects of great luxury in the Middle Ages, and have also mostly survived in church treasuries.; an example can be seen in the Treasury of St Mark's Basilica in Venice, which also possesses a rock-crystal ewer in the same style. A number of the glasses were elaborated into reliquaries, or in one case a chalice, during the Middle Ages, with the addition of goldsmith's work, including those at Namur, Krakow and Halberstadt (see below). Lierke suggests that notches in the bases of many indicate that they were originally given other metalwork settings, perhaps as chalices, but none of these have survived. Seven of the known Hedwig glasses have 13th- to 15th-century metal mounts.\n\nThe Hedwig glasses were clearly high status objects. According to Ettinghausen and Grabar, writing in 1987, so far no examples of this type of glass have been found in the Near East: \"all the preserved pieces come from the treasuries of Western churches and noble houses\". Small shards of broken Hedwig glasses have been found in excavations.\nIn common with many Islamic objects imported into medieval Europe, they were credited with more antiquity than was in fact the case. The Amsterdam goblet carries the inscription:\n\"Alsz diesz glas war alt tausent jahr Es Pfalzgraf Ludwig Philipsen verehret war: 1643\"\n\nAs of 2009, 14 complete Hedwig glasses and ten additional fragments are known.\n\n\n\nThe British Museum's example is a \"Highlight\" object and was selected as the 57th object in the series \"A History of the World in 100 Objects\" selected by British Museum director Neil MacGregor and broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "333528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=333528", "title": "Japanese language and computers", "text": "Japanese language and computers\n\nIn relation to the Japanese language and computers many adaptation issues arise, some unique to Japanese and others common to languages which have a very large number of characters. The number of characters needed in order to write English is very small, and thus it is possible to use only one byte to encode one English character. However, the number of characters in Japanese is much more than 256, and hence Japanese cannot be encoded using only one byte, and Japanese is thus encoded using two or more bytes, in a so-called \"double byte\" or \"multi-byte\" encoding. Some problems relate to transliteration and romanization, some to character encoding, and some to the input of Japanese text.\n\nThere are several standard methods to encode Japanese characters for use on a computer, including JIS, Shift-JIS, EUC, and Unicode. While mapping the set of kana is a simple matter, kanji has proven more difficult. Despite efforts, none of the encoding schemes have become the de facto standard, and multiple encoding standards are still in use today.\n\nFor example, most Japanese emails are in ISO-2022-JP (\"JIS encoding\") and web pages in Shift-JIS and yet mobile phones in Japan usually use some form of Extended Unix Code. If a program fails to determine the encoding scheme employed, it can cause and thus unreadable text on computers.\n\nThe first encoding to become widely used was JIS X 0201, which is a single-byte encoding that only covers standard 7-bit ASCII characters with half-width katakana extensions. This was widely used in systems that were neither powerful enough nor had the storage to handle kanji (including old embedded equipment such as cash registers). This means that only katakana, not kanji, was supported using this technique. Some embedded displays still have this limitation.\n\nThe development of kanji encodings was the beginning of the split. Shift JIS supports kanji and was developed to be completely backward compatible with JIS X 0201, and thus is in much embedded electronic equipment. \n\nHowever, Shift JIS has the unfortunate property that it often breaks any parser (software that reads the coded text) that is not specifically designed to handle it. For example, a text search method can get false hits if it is not designed for Shift JIS. EUC, on the other hand, is handled much better by parsers that have been written for 7-bit ASCII (and thus EUC encodings are used on UNIX, where much of the file-handling code was historically only written for English encodings). But EUC is not backwards compatible with JIS X 0201, the first main Japanese encoding. Further complications arise because the original Internet e-mail standards only support 7-bit transfer protocols. Thus (\"ISO-2022-JP\", often simply called JIS encoding) was developed for sending and receiving e-mails.\n\nIn character set standards such as JIS, not all required characters are included, so gaiji ( \"external characters\") are sometimes used to supplement the character set. Gaiji may come in the form of external font packs, where normal characters have been replaced with new characters, or the new characters have been added to unused character positions. However, gaiji are not practical in Internet environments since the font set must be transferred with text to use the gaiji. As a result, such characters are written with similar or simpler characters in place, or the text may need to be encoded using a larger character set (such as Unicode) that supports the required character.\n\nUnicode was intended to solve all encoding problems over all languages. The UTF-8 encoding used to encode Unicode in web pages does not have the disadvantages that Shift-JIS has. Unicode is supported by international software, and it eliminates the need for gaiji. There are still controversies, however. For Japanese, the kanji characters have been unified with Chinese; that is, a character considered to be the same in both Japanese and Chinese is given a single number, even if the appearance is actually somewhat different, with the precise appearance left to the use of a locale-appropriate font. This process, called Han unification, has caused controversy. The previous encodings in Japan, Taiwan Area, Mainland China and Korea have only handled one language and Unicode should handle all. The handling of Kanji/Chinese have however been designed by a committee composed of representatives from all four countries/areas. Unicode is slowly growing because it is better supported by software from outside Japan, but still (as of 2011) most web pages in Japanese use Shift-JIS. The Japanese Wikipedia uses Unicode.\n\nWritten Japanese uses several different scripts: kanji (Chinese characters), 2 sets of \"kana\" (phonetic syllabaries) and roman letters. While kana and roman letters can be typed directly into a computer, entering kanji is a more complicated process as there are far more kanji than there are keys on most keyboards. To input kanji on modern computers, the reading of kanji is usually entered first, then an input method editor (IME), also sometimes known as a front-end processor, shows a list of candidate kanji that are a phonetic match, and allows the user to choose the correct kanji. More-advanced IMEs work not by word but by phrase, thus increasing the likelihood of getting the desired characters as the first option presented. Kanji readings inputs can be either via romanization (\"rōmaji nyūryoku,\" ) or direct kana input (\"kana nyūryoku,\" ). Romaji input is more common on PCs and other full-size keyboards (although direct input is also widely supported), whereas direct kana input is typically used on mobile phones and similar devices – each of the 10 digits (1–9,0) corresponds to one of the 10 columns in the gojūon table of kana, and multiple presses select the row.\n\nThere are two main systems for the romanization of Japanese, known as \"Kunrei-shiki\" and \"Hepburn\"; in practice, \"keyboard romaji\" (also known as \"wāpuro rōmaji\" or \"word processor romaji\") generally allows a loose combination of both. IME implementations may even handle keys for letters unused in any romanization scheme, such as \"L\", converting them to the most appropriate equivalent. With kana input, each key on the keyboard directly corresponds to one kana. The JIS keyboard system is the national standard, but there are alternatives, like the thumb-shift keyboard, commonly used among professional typists.\n\nJapanese can be written in two directions. \"Yokogaki\" style writes left-to-right, top-to-bottom, as with English. \"Tategaki\" style writes first top-to-bottom, and then moves right-to-left.\n\nAt present, handling of downward text is incomplete. For example, HTML has no support for \"tategaki\" and Japanese users must use HTML tables to simulate it. However, CSS level 3 includes a property \"writing-mode\" which can render \"tategaki\" when given the value \"vertical-rl\" (i.e. top to bottom, right to left). Word processors and DTP software have more complete support for it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977450", "title": "John Mitchell Kemble", "text": "John Mitchell Kemble\n\nJohn Mitchell Kemble (2 April 1807 – 26 March 1857), English scholar and historian, was the eldest son of Charles Kemble the actor and Maria Theresa Kemble. He is notable for his major contribution to the history of the Anglo-Saxons and philology of the Old English language.\n\nKemble received his education from Charles Richardson and at Bury St Edmunds grammar school, where he obtained in 1826 an exhibition to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he became a member of the Cambridge Apostles. As a law student, his historical essays were well received but he \"would not follow the course of study prescribed by the university and was, moreover, fond of society and of athletic amusements\", which caused the deferral of his graduation in 1829.\n\nThe bent of his studies was turned more especially towards the Anglo-Saxon period through the influence of one the brothers Grimm, Jacob Grimm, under whom he studied at Göttingen (1831). His thorough knowledge of the Teutonic languages and his critical faculty were shown in his \"Anglo-Saxon Poems of Beowulf\" (1833-1837), \"Über die Stammtafeln der Westsachsen\" (Munich 1836), \"Codex diplomaticus aevi Saxonici\" (London 1839-1848), and in many contributions to reviews; while his \"History of the Saxons in England\" (1849; new ed. 1876), though it must now be read with caution, was the first attempt at a thorough examination of the original sources of the early period of English history.\n\nHe was editor of the \"British and Foreign Review\" from 1835 to 1844; and from 1840 to his death was examiner of plays. In 1857 he published \"State Papers and Correspondence Illustrative of the Social and Political State of Europe from the Revolution to the Accession of the House of Hanover\".\n\nHis \"Horae Ferales, or Studies in the Archaeology of Northern Nations\", was completed by Dr Robert Gordon Latham, and published in 1864.\n\nHe married Nathalie Auguste, the daughter of Professor Amadeus Wendt of Göttingen, in about 1836. Though they had two daughters and a son, the marriage was not a happy one and they were living apart by about 1850. The elder daughter, Gertrude (b. 1837) married Sir Charles Santley, the singer and died in 1882.\n\nKemble died at Dublin on 26 March 1857 and is buried there in Mount Jerome Cemetery.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "12891829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12891829", "title": "John Whitney Hall", "text": "John Whitney Hall\n\nJohn Whitney Hall (September 13, 1916 – October 21, 1997), the Tokyo-born son of missionaries in Japan, grew up to become a pioneer in the field of Japanese studies and one of the most respected historians of Japan of his generation. His life work was recognized by the Japanese government. At the time he was honored with Japan's Order of the Sacred Treasure, he was one of only a very small number of Americans to have been singled out in this way.\n\nJohn Whitney Hall became an authority on pre-modern Japan; and he helped transform the way Western scholars view the period immediately preceding Japan's modernization as well as the thousand years before that. Professor Jeffrey Mass, a one-time student and later colleague of Hall's on the Yale faculty, described him as a quiet, self-contained man—and a master punster. Hall was a great admirer of Japanese culture and he amassed a large collection of prints, folk art and pottery; but in addition to being a dedicated academic, he was also an experienced mountain climber who had climbed extensively in the Japanese Alps.\n\nThe only son of Congregational missionaries, Professor Hall was born in Kyoto in 1916 and lived in Japan until he was a teenager. According to his wife Robin, he visited the United States with his parents as a child and he had been appalled by how little Americans knew about Japan. After her husband's death, Mrs. Hall explained, \"Being brought up in Japan and by missionaries, he was a very straight-arrow kind of person. There is this kind of missionary feeling, that you must make something of this [life], not just throw it away.\"\n\nHe prepared for college by attending Phillips Andover Academy in Andover, Massachusetts. At Amherst College, he majored in American studies, comparing the United States to Japan. After receiving a A.B. degree in 1939, he returned to Japan an instructor in English at Doshisha University in Kyoto until 1941.\n\nDuring the war, he served with United States Naval Intelligence, leaving the service with the rank of Lieutenant Commander.\n\nHall earned his Ph.D. in East Asian languages and literatures from Harvard University in 1950. At Harvard, he became one of the first graduate students to study under Edwin O. Reischauer, who was another missionary's son and a pioneering Japan scholar.\n\nHall's obituary in the \"New York Times\" described him as \"something of an academic entrepreneur\" because he was so central in the work of building up the fledgling field of Japanese studies in the years after World War II. In his lifetime, he served as a stalwart bridge linking historians in Japan with historians in the West. Harry Harootunian, a professor of history at New York University and a former student of Professor Hall's, summarizes this view succinctly: \"What I think guys like Hall tried to do was de-exoticize the study of Japan. To de-exoticize anything is to bring it closer to us, to eliminate the distance that we imagine exists between ourselves and the object of our study.\"\n\nHall himself explained: \"My own fascination with Japanese history lies primarily with the manner in which Japan's political and social institutions have changed and diversified over time and how this fundamentally 'Eastern' culture gave rise to a modern world power.\"\n\nIn 1948, Professor Hall began teaching at the University of Michigan, one of the few American universities that had a significant program in his field. He would become director of the Center for Japanese Studies (1957–1960) and a founder of the first American research venture in post-war Japan. Through that program, a field research station in Okayama, Professor Hall spent a year in Japan in 1952 and became the first person to begin examining the voluminous records of one of the daimyo families that had ruled Japan during the early modern period between 1600 and 1868. He became an expert in that period, identifying the seeds of Japan's subsequent industrialization and modernization—findings which challenged the traditional Western view that that period had been nothing more than Japan's rather backward, final feudal age.\n\nHis earliest book was \"Tanuma Okitsugu, 1718-1787\". Among other interests, his research focused on the Kamakura period in the history of Japan.\n\nGeorge Wilson Pierson recruited Whitney to join the Yale University faculty as part of a plan to expand the department's curriculum to include greater emphasis on Asian history. In 1961, he was named as the A. Whitney Griswold Professor of History, a position he held until his retirement in 1983. Five years after arriving at Yale, Hall published his most famous book, \"Government and Local Power in Japan, 500 to 1700,\" which traced the development of Okayama during that period and, some say, opened up the first thousand years of Japanese history to the English-speaking world. Although scholarly books rarely have a shelf life of more than a generation, some colleagues assert that Hall's book is in a category all its own.\n\nWhile at Yale, Hall served as Chairman of the History Department from 1973 through 1976. He was also Chairman of the East Asian Languages and Literatures Department from 1971 through 1974. In 1983, he retired from the faculty. Yale University's John W. Hall Lecture Series in Japanese Studies was established in his memory.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, Professor Hall became a leader in many of the organizations that were working to build up the field of Japanese studies. These groups were attempting to represent the interests of the field in order to get support from universities, foundations and the Japanese government. Professor Hall's activities included \nThroughout these years, Professor Hall also worked closely with the Japan Foundation, which was set up by the Japanese government in the 1970s to help American universities establish Japanese studies programs. The Japan Foundation eventually gave $1 million to 10 major universities for activities in the field. Hall was honored with the Japan Foundation Award in 1976.\n\nIn 1987 Hall was one of the recipients of American Historical Association's Award for Scholarly Distinction.\n\nIn a statistical overview derived from writings by and about John Whitney Hall, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 90+ works in 200+ publications in 8 languages and 10,000+ library holdings\n\n\n\nThe Association for Asian Studies (AAS) Northeast Asia Council (NEAC) presents the John Whitney Hall Book Prize, which has been awarded annually since 1994 for an outstanding English language book published on Japan or Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "21271278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21271278", "title": "Kyriarchy", "text": "Kyriarchy\n\nKyriarchy, pronounced , is in feminist theory, a social system or set of connecting social systems built around domination, oppression, and submission. The word was coined by Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza in 1992 to describe her theory of interconnected, interacting, and self-extending systems of domination and submission, in which a single individual might be oppressed in some relationships and privileged in others. It is an intersectional extension of the idea of patriarchy beyond gender. Kyriarchy encompasses sexism, racism, speciesism, homophobia, classism, economic injustice, colonialism, militarism, ethnocentrism, anthropocentrism, and other forms of dominating hierarchies in which the subordination of one person or group to another is internalized and institutionalized.\n\nThe term was coined by Elisabeth Schüssler Fiorenza in 1992 when she published her book \"But She Said: Feminist Practices of Biblical Interpretation\". It is derived from , \"lord, master\" and , \"to lead, rule, govern\". The word \"kyriarchy\" (, a valid Greek formation, though it is not found in ancient Greek) can now be used to mean \"sovereignty\", i.e. the rulership of a sovereign.\n\nThe term was originally developed in the context of feminist theological discourse, and has been used in some other areas of academia as a non-gender based descriptor of systems of power, as opposed to patriarchy. It is also widely used outside of scholarly contexts.\n\nSchüssler Fiorenza describes interdependent \"stratifications of gender, race, class, religion, heterosexualism, and age\" as \"structural positions\" assigned at birth. She suggests that people inhabit several positions, and that positions with privilege become nodal points through which other positions are experienced. For example, in a context where gender is the primary privileged position (e.g., patriarchy), gender becomes the nodal point through which sexuality, race, and class are experienced. In a context where class is the primary privileged position (i.e., classism), gender and race are experienced through class dynamics. Fiorenza stresses that kyriarchy is not a hierarchical system as it does not focus on one point of domination. Instead it is described as a \"complex pyramidal system\" with those on the bottom of the pyramid experiencing the \"full power of kyriarchal oppression\". The kyriarchy is recognized as the status quo and therefore its oppressive structures may not be recognized.\n\nTo maintain this system, kyriarchy relies on the creation of a servant class, race, gender, or people. The position of this class is reinforced through \"education, socialization, and brute violence and malestream rationalization\". Tēraudkalns suggests that these structures of oppression are self-sustained by internalized oppression; those with relative power tend to remain in power, while those without tend to remain disenfranchised. Structures of oppression also amplify and feed into each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "10774243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10774243", "title": "Morganton, Tennessee", "text": "Morganton, Tennessee\n\nMorganton was a community once located in Loudon County, Tennessee, in the southeastern United States. Although now submerged by Tellico Lake, during its heyday in the 19th century Morganton thrived as a flatboat port and regional business center. An important ferry operated at Morganton for nearly 170 years.\n\nDue largely to the decline in river trade that occurred in the mid-19th century with the construction of railroads in East Tennessee, Morganton was mostly deserted by the time the Tennessee Valley Authority started buying up property for the construction of Tellico Dam in the late 1960s. Today, the Morganton Cemetery, which overlooks the now-flooded townsite, is all that remains of the former town. A road and TWRA boat ramp are named for Morganton.\n\nThe Little Tennessee River rises in the Appalachian Mountains of Georgia and meanders its way through southwestern North Carolina before entering Tennessee, where it flows for roughly before emptying into the Tennessee River near Lenoir City. The completion of Tellico Dam at the river's mouth in 1979 created a lake that spans the lower of the river. Morganton was located above the mouth of the Little Tennessee at the river's confluence with Bakers Creek, which flows westward from Maryville.\n\nThe Morganton site is visible from the junction of East Coast Tellico Parkway and Morganton Road, just west of Greenback. The area is under the management of the Tennessee Valley Authority.\n\nThe Morganton area was part of the lands ceded by the Cherokee with the signing of the First Treaty of Tellico in 1798. The first Euro-American settlers had arrived at the mouth of Bakers Creek in 1796, however, when the land was still claimed by the Cherokee. Several major villages of the Overhill Cherokee were located upstream from the Morganton site (the village of Mialoquo was situated just around Wears Bend, on the opposite side of the river), although most of these villages had either been destroyed or were in decline by the late 1790s. Ethnologist James Mooney recorded a Cherokee legend regarding curiously blazed trees on the banks \"opposite Morganton\" that supposedly marked the location of hidden mines.\n\nBy 1799 a grist mill had been established along Bakers Creek by Hugh and Charles Kelso. The following year, Captain Robert Wear (1781-1846) arrived in the area, establishing a plantation near the mouth of the river and a ferry near the mouth of Bakers Creek. In 1801, an inspection port was established near the ferry, and the small community that developed in its vicinity became known as \"Portville.\" The community of Portville incorporated in 1813 after the Kelso brothers donated land for the formation of a town square. The community chose the name \"Morganton\" after Gideon Morgan (1751–1830), a Revolutionary War veteran and prominent local merchant.\n\nBy the 1830s, Morganton had grown to become the main shipping hub and business center in the Little Tennessee region. Flatboats carried local products such as whiskey and hemp to trade throughout the Tennessee Valley— and sometimes as far away as New Orleans— for products such as clothing, salt, and spices. By 1832, the town had its own doctor, hatter's shop, hemp factory, wagon factory, cabinet shop, distillery, and silversmith. A steamboat line connecting Morganton and Knoxville began operating in 1831.\n\nIn late 1863, at the height of the U.S. Civil War, Confederate General James Longstreet hoped to cross the Little Tennessee at Morganton en route from Chattanooga to Knoxville to dislodge the troops under the command of Ambrose Burnside, who had occupied Knoxville earlier in the year. Longstreet later recalled:\nHad the means been at hand for making proper moves I should have marched for the rear of Knoxville via Morganton and Marysville...\nAs Longstreet lacked the materials to construct a pontoon bridge, however, he was forced to cross the Tennessee River at Loudon, and approach from the west. That same year, however, Union General William T. Sherman crossed the Little Tennessee at Morganton en route to Chattanooga. Sherman tore down several of the town's houses to construct a pontoon bridge.\n\nAfter the Civil War, railroads slowly replaced riverboats as the preferred mode of shipping and transportation. When the L&N Railroad laid tracks through nearby Greenback in the late 19th century, Morganton slowly declined. In 1947, a bridge near Niles Ferry became toll-free, putting most of the ferries along the Little Tennessee River out of business. The Morganton Ferry was the last to go, folding in 1961.\n\nIn 1968, the Tennessee Valley Authority reported 18 houses, a store, and a church at Morganton, all of which were to be torn down in anticipation of the construction of Tellico Dam. In 1978, as the Tellico Dam project was stalled by litigation, University of Tennessee archaeologists conducted a test survey of the Morganton townsite. Several early American artifacts were located, some dating to as early as 1762, as well as several projectile points. The artifacts were similar to those uncovered at the nearby Tellico Blockhouse site, which had been excavated around the same time.\n"}
{"id": "52558258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52558258", "title": "Park Glienicke", "text": "Park Glienicke\n\nPark Glienicke, (German: \"Park Klein-Glienicke\" or \"Glienicker Park\") is an \"English landscape garden\" in the southwestern outskirts of Berlin, Germany. It is located in the locality of Wannsee in the Steglitz-Zehlendorf borough. Close to Glienicke Bridge (known as \"Bridge of Spies\") the park is open to the general public. The park is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Palaces and Parks of Potsdam and Berlin (\"Potsdam cultural ensemble\"). Within the ensemble it is one of the five main parks, the others being Sanssouci Park, New Garden (Neuer Garten), Babelsberg Park and Peacock Island (Pfaueninsel). Regarding diversity in gardening styles within the Potsdam park ensemble Park Glienicke is only superseded by Sanssouci Park. Furthermore, it is a park especially characterized by one personality due to the intense involvement of Prince Charles of Prussia. The park covers approximately \n\nIn 1682 Frederick William of Brandenburg, the \"Great Elector\", commissioned the first hunting lodge \"Jagdschloss Glienicke \" next to the uninhabited village Klein-Glienicke which suffered badly in the Thirty Years' War. The lodge had a garden with four carp ponds. South of the lodge was an enclosed wildlife park; north a tree garden and two vineyards. Already since 1660 the first wooden Glienicke Bridge linked the area to Potsdam. In 1715 under Frederick William, the \"Soldier King\", the lodge became a military hospital for soldiers to be quarantined. In 1747 the hospital head Dr. Mirow bought the tree garden and the new vineyard which were neglected since the Soldier King's death and established there an estate where besides farming kilns for bricks and lime were operated. In 1758 the lodge itself was turned into a wallpaper factory which became an orphanage in 1827. From 1789 on the Berlin-Potsdam chaussee () was built distinctly separating former lodge and new estate. The Mirow estate had different owners until the Prussian lieutenant general and head equerry Count Carl von Lindenau () bought it in 1796 and converted it into an ornamented farm./\n\nAfter the Prussian Chancellor Karl August von Hardenberg had purchased the estate in 1814, he commissioned the Prussian gardener Peter Joseph Lenné to design a park in 1816. The first part was the \"pleasure ground\" inspired by English landscape gardening. In 1822 Germany's renowned landscape gardener Prince Hermann von Pückler-Muskau brought the English architect John Adey Repton(son of the great English landscape designer Humphry Repton) to Glienicke. After his return to England J.A. Repton designed a Hardenberg basket supposedly inspired by a wooden basket containing a bed of roses in Glienicke.\nIn November 1822 Chancellor Hardenberg died. In 1824 the estate was sold to Prince Charles of Prussia. It has remained a mystery why the unmarried third-born son of the Prussian king was the first son to get his own estate. While the mansion was converted into Glienicke Palace, designed by Karl Friedrich Schinkel, Prince Charles developed the park together with Lenné and other gardeners in the following decades to the extent which is still visible today. Being a particular anglophile he had the nickname „Sir Charles Glienicke“ within the Prussian royal family. Yet he never travelled to England as he was opposed to British politics like his anglophile sister Charlotte, the wife of Russian Emperor Nicholas I. Visiting his sister Prince Charles travelled several times to Saint Petersburg, where he was especially fascinated by Pavlovsk Park, which was designed as a classic English landscape garden. Park Glienicke was well known to the European aristocracy as the protocol for state visits to the Prussian capital required to pay also a visit to Prince Charles in Glienicke. On 14 August 1858 Queen Victoria and Prince Consort Albert visited Palace and Park Glienicke. Earlier that year their daughter Victoria had married Charles' nephew Crown Prince Frederick William of Prussia.\n\nAfter the park had been officially called \"Prince's Charles of Prussia Park\"(\"Park des Prinzen Carl von Preußen\") since 1824 it was renamed to \"Prince's Friedrich Leopold of Prussia Park\"(\"Park des Prinzen Friedrich Leopold von Preußen\") in 1885. As Charles' son Friedrich Carl of Prussia survived him by only two years the grandson Friedrich Leopold inherited Palace and Park Glienicke. Despite the instruction in Charles' will that the heirs should spend each year 30,000 Mark on the park Friedrich Leopold neglected the park. When Germany became a republic in 1919 Palace and Park Glienicke remained part of the Prince's property. Palace and park suffered further neglect as Friedrich Leopold moved to Lugano in Switzerland and took several pieces of art with him to pay off his debts. In 1924 the Prussian state bought the part of Böttcherbergpark. A development plan of 1928 for that area was not carried out. Friedrich Leopold's intention to sell off the areas of the 1841 park extension was blocked by the Prussian state resulting in a lawsuit which ended with the Prince's death in 1931.\n\nAfter the Nazi seizure of power in 1933 the City of Berlin bought most of the park in 1934 and 1935. Julius Lippert, Reichskommissar of Berlin pressed the legal guardian of the heir(a minor) to sell and used the confiscated assets of the German bank manager and art collector Herbert M. Gutmann to pay. The Prince's family kept an triangular area in the southwest of the park including palace and pleasure ground. The park was opened to the public and named \"Volkspark Glienicke\"(People's Park Glienicke) indicating Lippert's populist intention. The official opening was on Adolf Hitler's birthday. The following years the park suffered e.g. from the changes to the Berlin-Potsdam chaussee which became part of the Reichsstraße 1. After being appointed mayor of Berlin in 1937 Julius Lippert planned to have Glienicke as his official residence and let acquire the remaining part which was not owned by the city. In 1940 Lippert lost his office and the palace became a military hospital afterwards.\n\nAfter World War II early ideas to convert the park into a huge West Berlin sports complex close to the border to the Soviet occupation zone were dropped. In 1952 the park became a nature reserve. Besides the restoration of Palace Glienicke and some other buildings by Karl Friedrich Schinkel and his students since the 1950s it took until 1969 for the park itself being regarded as a work of art by the West Berlin city administration. Since 1978 a special department for the conservation and restoration of historic gardens focused on Tiergarten and Park Glienicke. In 1981 the \"Schinkel Year\" provided further public funding and in 1982 the whole ensemble of Palace and Park was registered as historic monument and historic garden respectively. The Berlin Wall along the Berlin-Potsdam Chaussee on the one hand caused the demolition of some Swiss chalets in the part of the Böttcherbergpark south of the chaussee, but on the other hand brought about the rebuilding of the chaussee to its original dimension.\nAfter the German reunification the \"Palaces and Parks of Potsdam and Berlin\" were registered as UNESCO World Heritage Site on 1 January 1991. Since 1992 the park is part of the EU special protection area for wild birds \"Western Düppel Forest\" (Westlicher Düppeler Forst). In 2000 the \"Foundation for Prussian Palaces and Gardens in Berlin-Brandenburg\", formed in 1995, took over permanently the pleasure ground and the gardens near the palace. The rest of the park has remained with the Borough of Steglitz-Zehlendorf.\n\nFollowing the design guidelines by Humphry Repton for the classic English landscape garden Park Glienicke has the flower garden at the palace in the specific form of a \"garden courtyard\". From 1816 on Lenné created the adjacent house garden, the \"pleasure ground\", one of his early works and one of his masterpieces. The pleasure ground has seemingly a natural landscape, yet Lenné’s whole design is artificial and artistic. The area was developed between palace, chaussee and bridge keeper’s house. Lenné persuaded Hardenberg to buy a small farm estate, a so-called Büdnerei (), on a flat terrain at the chaussee. The topography of the “Büdnerei” and of four terraces for growing fruit and wine(north of “Büdnerei”) vanished with the landscaping.\n\nElliptical and round flower beds with terracotta palmette borders are typical for \"garden courtyard\" and \"pleasure ground\". The restoration was supported by discovering original border stones in the cellar of the \"Curiosity\" pavilion. In the underground the beds are walled in allowing for specific irrigation, therefore the pleasure ground has been crisscrossed with water pipes. As the clay pipes on Peacock Island lasted only ten years after being installed in 1824 expensive iron pipes supplied by the Prussian industrial pioneer F.A. Egells () were installed in Glienicke when in 1838 the pumping station started operating with a steam engine, a gift by Charles’ father which was also manufactured by F.A. Egells. The beds were filled with a loose subsoil which facilitated the quick replacement of plants. There are some figurative designed beds bordered with buxus which add to the pleasure ground an artificial aspect, e.g. the Oak Leaf bed near the \"Lions Fountain\" and the Diana(Greek:Artemis) or Pliny bed at the \"Casino\". An Athena statue, which is now at the British Museum, stood in a niche on the northside of the Casino characterizing it as a place of art. Most striking is the Lilies bed beneath Charles' bedroom windows at the western facade of the palace. It is a heraldic sign referring to Charles' younger sister Louise who was married to Prince Frederick of the Netherlands. She was very supportive sending bulbs to Charles. In Glienicke planting of roses has been almost non-existent in contrast to Babelsberg Park and Peacock Island. The pleasure ground in Glienicke is rather a portrayal of an antique villa complex as described by Pliny the Younger than a reflexion on a longing for Italy(Italiensehnsucht). \nVine Pergola and Adjutants’ Peristyle are the architectural links between garden courtyard and pleasure ground.\n\nThe pleasure ground itself has several architectural elements:\n\nThe planning for a big new fountain started after the construction of the pumping station began in 1836. On 23 October 1837 Prince Charles, Schinkel, Persius and Lenné met in Glienicke to discuss the fountain near the greenhouse which Count von Lindenau commissioned at the end of the 18th century. Schinkel drafted the fountain and a new greenhouse which never got beyond the design stage as on its site Persius build the Stibadium in 1840. The \"Lions Fountain\" has two gilded cast-iron sculptures of Medici lions which were a present by Charlotte to her brother Charles on his 30th birthday in 1831. The lions were placed on two high, zinc cast pedestals, which flank the fountain, each resting on four zinc cast Doric columns concealing the iron supporting structure. Charlotte and her husband, the Russian Emperor, were present at the official opening of the fountain on 2 June 1838. On the balustrade at the rear of the fountain, which is divided by the flight of steps from the palace, were placed four allegorical terracotta statues (created around 1855) describing both commerce, science, art and military as the cornerstones of the state and the four seasons. The creator of the statues was probably Christian Daniel Rauch’s student Alexander Gilli () who was “court sculptor” in Glienicke. Through the years the jet of water changed. At first a simple jet of water was projected vertically from a triton statue. Later that changed to aigrette and bell shapes. Also the Lions sculptures spouted water. The Lions Fountain has become a symbol for Park Glienicke. The view from the chaussee to the fountain with the palace in the background was the most common subject of the numerous vedute of Park Glienicke. After World War II the whole fountain was in a ruinous state. During the restoration from 1960 to 1964 most of the parts above ground had to be renewed. Fifty years later the fountain had again serious construction defects. After the fall of a tree on the fountain the restoration could not be delayed anymore. As in 2009 the work started more defects were discovered and investigated. Financed by considerable private donations the restoration was completed in August 2010.\n\nThe pavilion named \"Curiosity\" dates back to 1796 and was rebuilt in strict Doric order by Schinkel in 1825. It has a cellar. Its name derives from the fact that it could be used to watch the traffic on the adjacent Berlin-Potsdam chaussee through the shutters while being invisible to passers-by. Around 1848 the pavilion became a place for arts collection. Spolia were inserted in the entrance hall. At the same time a Florentine Renaissance arcade was installed as a cover on the garden façade. Already in 1842 the arcade was bought from the Russian arts collector Anatoly Demidov who lived in Florence. \n\nThe \"Stibadium\" was designed by Friedrich Ludwig Persius and built on the site of a neoclassical greenhouse with a garden room(built after 1796) in 1840. The semi-circular Tholos structure with a wooden half-cone roof was the main place for having tea. On the underside of the roof a twelve deities programme is painted. As there are 14 fields the Twelve Olympians were supplemented with Bacchus and Amphitrite. The middle pillar had originally a zinc-cast Kore designed by August Kiss which later was replaced with a marble copy of the Felicitas Publica in the monument Max-Joseph Denkmal by Christian Daniel Rauch in Munich. On the terrace stands a granite bowl by Christian Gottlieb Cantian which Charles inherited after his father died in 1840. The Stibadium had the function to be a shield between pleasure ground and Drive. It had also the opposite purpose of the \"Curiosity\" pavilion. While looking on the common people from such an elevated and prestigious building the Prince's tea party was on show to the people at the same time. The paintings of the Twelve Olympians may seem presumptuous, yet they are an artistic expression of how Prussian aristocrats saw themselves in the age of European Restoration.\n\nAfter Glienicke Bridge was rebuilt in stone in 1834 Prince Charles asked for a round summerhouse at the new corner of the garden. Based on ancient examples Schinkel designed a \"Rotunda\" in which the first tea party took place on 2 July 1835. At Prince Charles’ instigation the pavilion was crowned with the reproduction of the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates. The completed rotunda was opened with a big party on 16 August 1837. Rotunda, stone bridge and the residence Villa Schöningen on the opposite bank of the river Havel formed a little architectural ensemble on its own. This was destroyed when the stone bridge was replaced by the steel bridge in 1907. In 1935 the Rotunda was moved furthermore when the Berlin-Potsdam chaussee was expanded and became part of the Reichsstraße 1. \nNorth of the Rotunda at the shore of Jungfernsee lies the two-storey \"Casino\" from 1824. Its terrace, overlooking the lake, was the most beautiful place for having tea. It was the first building Schinkel designed for Prince Charles. On the one hand its name refers to an one-storey building previously used to play billiards in it, which Schinkel redesigned; on the other hand there is the Italian origin of the word \"Casino\" and that the building resembles country houses at the Gulf of Naples. In autumn and winter 1822/23 Charles had accompanied his father and his brother William on a four and a half month journey to Italy, where they spent four weeks in the Naples region visiting the excavation sites of Herculaneum and Pompeii.\n\nJust north of the Casino was a \"dummy frigate\", designed by Schinkel, on an artificial peninsula which presumably was thrown up as a bank of earth only in the 18th century serving as wharf for the ships transporting bricks and limestone. After the kilns were closed down in 1824 the peninsula became a mooring and was included in the garden design. The wooden construction of the frigate with three tall masts was used as a toolshed for the sailors who operated the Prince's miniature fleet. The dummy frigate was singular in the German landscape architecture. Presumably the Prince was inspired to having such a construction by travelling as a 13-year-old aboard the miniature frigate (first Royal Luise) which in 1814 the Prussian King Frederick William III received as present from the British King George III, a coalition partner in the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nAfter the pumping station at the shore was finished in 1838 Persius designed and built up-to-date \"greenhouses\" and an \"orangery\" in 1839. The buildings were erected to the west of the coach house at the edge of the pleasure ground where three little greenhouses stood previously. The arcade of the orangery referred to the adjacent coach house. The greenhouses, flanked by little water towers, were aligned to the south at the southern gable end of the orangery. Figs, peaches, pineapple, prunes and strawberries were grown in the greenhouses. The area in front of the greenhouses was used for extensive seedbeds. Orangery and one part of the greenhouses were demolished in 1940 and reconstructed in 1981.\n\nIn 1850 the \"Cloister Courtyard\" between Casino and the greenhouses was erected as the last building on the pleasure ground. The formal reason for the building was to house Charles' extensive collections of medieval art and Byzantine sculptures. Historic building parts were purchased in Venice to be used as spolia in the Cloister Courtyard where Charles developed the first collection of Byzantine works of art in modern Europe. The building has been described as a political statement by Prince Charles in the aftermath of the revolution of 1848. It is regarded as a tribute to the Byzantine Empire as a God-given unity of throne and altar in the Late Antiquity and Middle Ages. Furthermore, it is seen as a hidden tribute to Russia and its political order as the Russian emperors saw themselves as successors of the Byzantine Emperors. The Cloister Courtyard represents an unusual mixture of a romantic architecture depicting the contemporary atmosphere and of the function as a museum, so to speak a very late Hermitage with scientific pretension and political statement. Part of the collection in the Cloister Courtyard was the Imperial Throne of Goslar which Charles acquired with the help of his former tutor Heinrich Menu von Minutoli who had fostered Charles’ interest in antiquities. The throne was kept together with other medieval treasures in a chapel-like vault resembling a Schatzkammer. In 1871 Charles loaned the throne to his brother Emperor William I to be used as the Emperor's seat in the imperial ceremony opening the first Berlin Reichstag. Charles left the throne in his will to the town of Goslar. The most precious relief on the walls of the Cloister Courtyard was a late 12th century tondo of the Byzantine Emperor. Nowadays only a reproduction is on display. The original is part of the Byzantine Collection of the Dumbarton Oaks Museum in Georgetown, Washington, D.C..\n\nThe \"Coach House Courtyard\" dates from 1828 (design by Schinkel) and housed Charles' collection of coaches. The four arches refer to the Roman Agoranomion in Athens which Schinkel and his contemporaries thought of as the most important arch architecture of the \"Old Greeks\". The \"Palace Tower \" adjacent to the coach house was built in 1832 and was used as a difficult to climb vantage point. Charles called the tower the “Good Charles”(Guter Carl). In 1874 a late neoclassical observation loggia was put on the tower and the coach house was expanded including a second storey which was removed after World War II.\n\nThe wrought iron garden furniture is missing. Due to its great weight it was probably kept at outdoor places for the tea parties during the summer season which lasted from 1 May(day of purchase of Glienicke) until 3 November (Hubertus’s hunt). Some of the garden furniture was probably designed by Schinkel, other parts were in Louis Quinze style or Empire style. Wrought iron benches were presumably placed at smaller vantage points like e.g. the Lilac Pergola on the Lenné hill(as it is called nowadays) or the Lime Trees Pergola. The Lime Trees Pergola is the only non-architectural pergola in Glienicke which is still visible today. It consists of eight lime trees at a junction near the Cloister Courtyard which are the remains of the late 18th century geometrical aligned avenue trees. Near Lions Fountain and Stibadium the “Sphingentreppe”, a low rise flight of steps, is covered with a trellis designed by Persius. The flight of steps is named after the Sphinx statues placed at the foot of the steps which like the ill-fitting steps are from the demolished neoclassical greenhouse with a garden room at the site of today’s Stibadium.\n\nThere are some smaller architectural elements on the pleasure ground. Near the Lions Fountain a mosaic floor marks a former place for tea parties under the former King’s Lime Tree which was one of the most impressive solitary trees on the estate. In front of the Curiosity pavilion is the “La Laitière“ Fountain. It is an erratic crowned with a milkmaid bronze sculpture. The sculpture was a gift to Charles by his sister Charlotte in 1827. It was a copy of the original sculpture by Russian sculptor Pavel Sokolov (1764-1835) on the pleasure ground at the palace of Tsarskoye Selo. The sculpture refers to the fable about the milkmaid and her pail by Jean de La Fontaine. Today’s copy was created in the Soviet Union in 1987. The Boy’s Fountain is located in the middle of the pleasure ground. At its place was at first a sentimental memorial fountain called the “Monument“. Only after 1851 it was rebuilt into today’s Boy’s Fountain. It was inspired by a fountain design draft by Friedrich August Stüler published in 1850 on which the (destroyed) Frog’s Fountain in Sanssouci was modelled. For the Frog’s Fountain Friedrich Wilhelm Dankberg () created a statue of a boy carrying a bowl from which Prince Charles commissioned a zinc copy. On Lenné hill half hidden at bushes a „remnants of columns arrangement” is placed. The arrangement includes two column sections of the ancient Greek temple of Poseidon at Cape Sounion, a capital from the Pantheon in Rome and another one from the St. Paul's outside the Walls basilica in Rome. \n\nThe outlying park areas were separated from the pleasure ground by walls, fences or so-called invisible fences thus keeping out livestock and wildlife which roamed in the outlying park. In the middle of today’s park lies the part of the \"Big Meadows\"(Großer Wiesengrund). In the west of it the part of the \"Shore Ridge Path\"(Ufer-Höhenweg) is located which is continued to the north by the part of the \"Hunter's Court\" (Jägerhof). In the northeast the part of the \"Karpathen\" is a mountain park with steep slopes. South of it and east of the Big Meadows stretches a part which is dominated by \"Wooded Valleys\"(Waldtäler-Partie). South of the Berlin-Potsdam chaussee are the \"Böttcherberg-Park\" with its Swiss chalets area and the adjacent \"Hunting Lodge Garden\"(Jagdschlossgarten). The east of the Hunter's Court and the wooded valleys became part of the park when Frederick William, who became King of Prussia in June 1840, gave the area on the basis of a kind of perpetual usufruct to his brother Charles as a Christmas present in 1840. The Böttcherberg-Park belonged already to the Lindenau estate since 1804, yet the main landscape design effort started only in 1841. The largest part of the \"Karpathen\" was bought in 1851. Charles’ work on the plans for the Hunting Lodge Garden started about the time when his brother, the King, suffered several strokes in summer 1857. The Swiss chalets in Böttcherberg-Park were built from 1863 to 1867. after the owner of the adjacent Babelsberg Park, Charles’ brother William, the Prince regent, became King in 1861. Some of the names of the parts are historical. Big Meadows, Shore Ridge Path, the part of the Hunter's Court and the part of the Wooded Valleys are auxiliary names as the traditional names by Charles and his family are not known.\nLenné’s park design is characterized by very many and seemingly surprising sightlines in the park itself as well as in the Potsdam cultural ensemble. The continuous interlocking of meadows creating the highest degree of views is also typical for Lenné. Figurative flower beds, lively structured ponds and mountainous designed park parts are typical for landscape gardening by Prince Pückler. In Glienicke Prince Charles united both approaches, yet the western parts of the park show clearly the hand of Lenné. Regarding the park design Charles did not meet Pückler in person for decades, although they were introduced at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1818. Yet it is remarkable that Charles used the presence of Pückler’s employee Jacob Rehder () at Babelsberg to consult him about Pückler’s approach to landscape design while Pückler travelled through the north of Africa and the Near East from 1834 to 1840. Around 1837/38 Charles deviated from Lenné’s design principles when he designed three ”gorges” in the part of the Shore Ridge Path and started to subdivide Lenné’s unified designed park into parts. Pückler started the first of his eight visits to Prince Charles in Glienicke only in 1853, the same year the court gardener Friedrich Schojan, who had already served Hardenberg, retired. Schojan was succeeded by August Gieseler who previously worked at Muskau Park.\n1824 was a busy year for Charles in Glienicke. Besides the architectural work with Schinkel and Persius he worked with Lenné and Schojan regarding the park design and ordered as much coppice as possible for planting in autumn and spring. For the first phase the planting of around 26,000 copses was recorded, mostly oaks, poplars, locust trees and lilac trees. The huge number of copses resulted in a big logistical effort. On the park terrain of that time planting on a massive scale of between 40,000 and 50.000 copses happened during the first years. Despite consisting mostly of young beeches procurement did get difficult. As neighbouring tree nurseries and forests ran fast out of copses sourcing took Lenné, who was in charge, to more distant regions, especially the state forest Lüdersdorf in the Uckermark. At more exposed places in the park up to 40-years old trees were planted at huge costs during the following years.\nThrough a network of park roads and footpaths most of the park was accessible. Pure footpaths were to be found in difficult terrain. At very steep slopes footpaths with steps were available which were lost when most of the park became “Volkspark”. One path with steps was across the \"Karpathen\", another one linked the main park road, the Drive, with the \"Big Hunting Parasol\". There were also paths with steps to reach the lower parts of the \"Alders Bridge\" in the part of the Shore Ridge Path.\n\nTouring Park Glienicke by coach was done on the Drive, the main park road, which began at the \"Middle Gate\", nowadays an inconspicuous flight of stairs at the Berlin-Potsdam chaussee(Königstraße). When the chaussee was expanded to become Reichsstraße 1 the street level was raised at the park. Middle Gate was not anymore at the level of the Big Meadows requiring a flight of stairs. To access the “Volkspark” a monumental limestone flight of stairs was probably built in 1935 which was replaced by a more modest construction after 1945. In the 19th century visitors drove through Middle Gate, then past the big erratic with the date 1 May 1824(date of purchase of estate by Prince Charles) and along Big Meadows where the Palace Pond and the Workers’ Quarters were on sight to finally reach the open part of the Garden Courtyard where they entered the Palace. From the Palace the Drive, allowing a view of Coach House Courtyard, went north along Shore Ridge with the \"Tent\" as highest vantage point. Close to Hunter’s Court after a rather sharp bend the park road went south to the Big Meadows during the first years. Only at the end of the 1830s the completion of the three “gorges” with the pertinent bridges on Shore Ridge and buildings like the Court Gardener’s House with the adjacent water tower of the pumping station increased significantly the number of sights inside the park along the sightlines from the Drive. With the park extensions after 1840 the Drive was also extended to include the new parts in the north and the east. Several times the curve in the north was redesigned to a larger radius enabling a new route in the north which offered e.g. a splendid view of Peacock Island from the Drive. In its design the main park road became more dramatic in the east. From a dam leading southeastward views were possible into “gorges” adorned with erratics. Passing the Hermitage the Drive descended into the wooded parts from where in a big westward curve it ascended to the edge of a steep slope which was impressive regarding the usual regional topography. From vantage points there magnificent long distance views on the Potsdam cultural ensemble were possible. At the \"Upper Gate\" the Berlin-Potsdam chaussee was crossed and the tour continued into Böttcherberg-Park. Following another steep ascent the \"Alexandra Bench\" offered a view into the gorge there. At the \"Rondell\" the tour would usually be continued to the adjacent Babelsberg Park. On a shorter tour the coach would drive from the Rondell via the Middle Gate back to the Palace.\nThe park roads were built in layers. Coarse material was covered with fine material. The camber ensured that rain ran fast off the surface. At slopes the park roads had narrow and flat gutters which were flanked by pebbles of erratics preventing erosion. At intersections the gutters crossed the road.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6607106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6607106", "title": "Party motivator", "text": "Party motivator\n\nA party motivator is a person paid to entertain attendants at a party. Typically, party motivators are attractive young men and women who dress fashionably and attempt to engage guests in socializing and dancing. Hiring party motivators is primarily a phenomenon within the American upper middle and upper classes; they are especially common at bar mitzvahs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55360103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55360103", "title": "Paul Levinson bibliography", "text": "Paul Levinson bibliography\n\nThis is a list of works by or about Paul Levinson, American author.\n\n\n\nand \"Analog\", March 2000, pp. 72–83.\n\n"}
{"id": "6880370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6880370", "title": "Philosophy of language", "text": "Philosophy of language\n\nPhilosophy of language in the analytical tradition explored logic and accounts of the mind at the end of the nineteenth century, with English-speaking writers Frege and Russell being pivotal, followed by Wittgenstein (\"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\"), the Vienna Circle and the logical positivists, and Quine, while on the continent a foundation work was Ferdinand de Saussure's \"Cours de linguistique générale\", published posthumously in 1916. Philosophy of Language may investigate the relations between language, language users, and the world. The scope of Philosophy of Language may include inquiry into the origins of language, the nature of meaning, the usage and cognition of language. It overlaps to some extent with the study of Epistemology, Logic, Philosophy of Mind and other fields (including linguistics and psychology).\n\nIn a broader sense it may be said that the philosophy of language explores the relationship between language and reality. In particular, philosophy of language studies issues that cannot be addressed by other fields, like linguistics, or psychology. Major topics in the philosophy of language include the nature of meaning, intentionality, reference, the constitution of sentences, concepts, learning, and thought.\n\nThe topic that has received the most attention in the philosophy of language has been the \"nature\" of meaning, to explain what \"meaning\" is, and what we mean when we talk about meaning. Within this area, issues include: the nature of synonymy, the origins of meaning itself, our apprehension of meaning, and the nature of composition (the question of how meaningful units of language are composed of smaller meaningful parts, and how the meaning of the whole is derived from the meaning of its parts).\n\nSecondly, this field of study seeks to better understand what speakers and listeners do with language in communication, and how it is used socially. Specific interests include the topics of language learning, language creation, and speech acts.\n\nThirdly, the question of how language relates to the minds of both the speaker and the interpreter is investigated. Of specific interest is the grounds for successful translation of words and concepts into their equivalents in another language.\n\nFinally, philosophers of language investigate how language and meaning relate to truth and the reality being referred to. They tend to be less interested in which sentences are \"actually true\", and more in \"what kinds of meanings can be true or false\". A truth-oriented philosopher of language might wonder whether or not a meaningless sentence can be true or false, or whether or not sentences can express propositions about things that do not exist, rather than the way sentences are used.\n\nIt has long been known that there are different parts of speech. One part of the common sentence is the lexical word, which is composed of nouns, verbs, and adjectives. A major question in the field – perhaps the single most important question for formalist and structuralist thinkers – is, \"How does the meaning of a sentence emerge out of its parts?\"\n\nMany aspects of the problem of the composition of sentences are addressed in the field of linguistics of syntax. Philosophical semantics tends to focus on the principle of compositionality to explain the relationship between meaningful parts and whole sentences. The principle of compositionality asserts that a sentence can be understood on the basis of the meaning of the \"parts\" of the sentence (i.e., words, morphemes) along with an understanding of its \"structure\" (i.e., syntax, logic). Further, syntactic propositions are arranged into 'discourse' or 'narrative' structures, which also encode meanings through pragmatics like temporal relations and pronominals.\n\nIt is possible to use the concept of \"functions\" to describe more than just how lexical meanings work: they can also be used to describe the meaning of a sentence. Take, for a moment, the sentence \"The horse is red\". We may consider \"the horse\" to be the product of a \"propositional function\". A propositional function is an operation of language that takes an entity (in this case, the horse) as an input and outputs a \"semantic fact\" (i.e., the proposition that is represented by \"The horse is red\"). In other words, a propositional function is like an algorithm. The meaning of \"red\" in this case is whatever takes the entity \"the horse\" and turns it into the statement, \"The horse is red.\"\n\nLinguists have developed at least two general methods of understanding the relationship between the parts of a linguistic string and how it is put together: syntactic and semantic trees. Syntactic trees draw upon the words of a sentence with the \"grammar\" of the sentence in mind. Semantic trees, on the other hand, focus upon the role of the \"meaning\" of the words and how those meanings combine to provide insight onto the genesis of semantic facts.\n\nThere have been several distinctive explanations of what a linguistic \"meaning\" is. Each has been associated with its own body of literature.\n\n\nOther theories exist to discuss non-linguistic meaning (i.e., meaning as conveyed by body language, meanings as consequences, etc.).\n\nInvestigations into how language interacts with the world are called theories of reference. Gottlob Frege was an advocate of a mediated reference theory. Frege divided the semantic content of every expression, including sentences, into two components: sense and reference. The sense of a sentence is the thought that it expresses. Such a thought is abstract, universal and objective. The sense of any sub-sentential expression consists in its contribution to the thought that its embedding sentence expresses. Senses determine reference and are also the modes of presentation of the objects to which expressions refer. Referents are the objects in the world that words pick out. The senses of sentences are thoughts, while their referents are truth values (true or false). The referents of sentences embedded in propositional attitude ascriptions and other opaque contexts are their usual senses.\n\nBertrand Russell, in his later writings and for reasons related to his theory of acquaintance in epistemology, held that the only directly referential expressions are, what he called, \"logically proper names\". Logically proper names are such terms as \"I\", \"now\", \"here\" and other indexicals. He viewed proper names of the sort described above as \"abbreviated definite descriptions\". Hence \"Donald J. Trump\" may be an abbreviation for \"the current President of the United States and husband of Melania Trump.\" Definite descriptions are denoting phrases (see \"On Denoting\") which are analyzed by Russell into existentially quantified logical constructions. Such phrases denote in the sense that there is an object that satisfies the description. However, such objects are not to be considered meaningful on their own, but have meaning only in the proposition expressed by the sentences of which they are a part. Hence, they are not directly referential in the same way as logically proper names, for Russell.\n\nOn Frege's account, any referring expression has a sense as well as a referent. Such a \"mediated reference\" view has certain theoretical advantages over Mill's view. For example, co-referential names, such as \"Samuel Clemens\" and \"Mark Twain\", cause problems for a directly referential view because it is possible for someone to hear \"Mark Twain is Samuel Clemens\" and be surprised – thus, their cognitive content seems different.\n\nDespite the differences between the views of Frege and Russell, they are generally lumped together as descriptivists about proper names. Such descriptivism was criticized in Saul Kripke's \"Naming and Necessity\".\n\nKripke put forth what has come to be known as \"the modal argument\" (or \"argument from rigidity\"). Consider the name \"Aristotle\" and the descriptions \"the greatest student of Plato\", \"the founder of logic\" and \"the teacher of Alexander\". Aristotle obviously satisfies all of the descriptions (and many of the others we commonly associate with him), but it is not necessarily true that if Aristotle existed then Aristotle was any one, or all, of these descriptions. Aristotle may well have existed without doing any single one of the things for which he is known to posterity. He may have existed and not have become known to posterity at all or he may have died in infancy. Suppose that Aristotle is associated by Mary with the description \"the last great philosopher of antiquity\" and (the actual) Aristotle died in infancy. Then Mary’s description would seem to refer to Plato. But this is deeply counterintuitive. Hence, names are \"rigid designators\", according to Kripke. That is, they refer to the same individual in every possible world in which that individual exists. In the same work, Kripke articulated several other arguments against \"Frege–Russell\" descriptivism.\n\nIt is worth noting that the whole philosophical enterprise of studying reference has been critiqued by linguist Noam Chomsky in various works.\n\nSome of the major issues at the intersection of philosophy of language and philosophy of mind are also dealt with in modern psycholinguistics. Some important questions are \"How much of language is innate? Is language acquisition a special faculty in the mind? What is the connection between thought and language?\"\n\nThere are three general perspectives on the issue of language learning. The first is the behaviorist perspective, which dictates that not only is the solid bulk of language learned, but it is learned via conditioning. The second is the \"hypothesis testing perspective\", which understands the child's learning of syntactic rules and meanings to involve the postulation and testing of hypotheses, through the use of the general faculty of intelligence. The final candidate for explanation is the innatist perspective, which states that at least some of the syntactic settings are innate and hardwired, based on certain modules of the mind.\n\nThere are varying notions of the structure of the brain when it comes to language. Connectionist models emphasize the idea that a person's lexicon and their thoughts operate in a kind of distributed, associative network. Nativist models assert that there are specialized devices in the brain that are dedicated to language acquisition. Computation models emphasize the notion of a representational language of thought and the logic-like, computational processing that the mind performs over them. Emergentist models focus on the notion that natural faculties are a complex system that emerge from simpler biological parts. Reductionist models attempt to explain higher-level mental processes in terms of the basic low-level neurophysiological activity of the brain.\n\nAn important problem which touches both philosophy of language and philosophy of mind is to what extent language influences thought and vice versa. There have been a number of different perspectives on this issue, each offering a number of insights and suggestions.\n\nLinguists Sapir and Whorf suggested that language limited the extent to which members of a \"linguistic community\" can think about certain subjects (a hypothesis paralleled in George Orwell's novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\"). In other words, language was analytically prior to thought. Philosopher Michael Dummett is also a proponent of the \"language-first\" viewpoint.\n\nThe stark opposite to the Sapir–Whorf position is the notion that thought (or, more broadly, mental content) has priority over language. The \"knowledge-first\" position can be found, for instance, in the work of Paul Grice. Further, this view is closely associated with Jerry Fodor and his language of thought hypothesis. According to his argument, spoken and written language derive their intentionality and meaning from an internal language encoded in the mind. The main argument in favor of such a view is that the structure of thoughts and the structure of language seem to share a compositional, systematic character. Another argument is that it is difficult to explain how signs and symbols on paper can represent anything meaningful unless some sort of meaning is infused into them by the contents of the mind. One of the main arguments against is that such levels of language can lead to an infinite regress. In any case, many philosophers of mind and language, such as Ruth Millikan, Fred Dretske and Fodor, have recently turned their attention to explaining the meanings of mental contents and states directly.\n\nAnother tradition of philosophers has attempted to show that language and thought are coextensive – that there is no way of explaining one without the other. Donald Davidson, in his essay \"Thought and Talk\", argued that the notion of belief could only arise as a product of public linguistic interaction. Daniel Dennett holds a similar \"interpretationist\" view of propositional attitudes. To an extent, the theoretical underpinnings to cognitive semantics (including the notion of semantic framing) suggest the influence of language upon thought. However, the same tradition views meaning and grammar as a function of conceptualization, making it difficult to assess in any straightforward way.\n\nSome thinkers, like the ancient sophist Gorgias, have questioned whether or not language was capable of capturing thought at all.\nThere are studies that prove that languages shape how people understand causality. Some of them were performed by Lera Boroditsky. For example, English speakers tend to say things like \"John broke the vase\" even for accidents. However, Spanish or Japanese speakers would be more likely to say \"the vase broke itself.\" In studies conducted by Caitlin Fausey at Stanford University speakers of English, Spanish and Japanese watched videos of two people popping balloons, breaking eggs and spilling drinks either intentionally or accidentally. Later everyone was asked whether they could remember who did what. Spanish and Japanese speakers did not remember the agents of accidental events as well as did English speakers. \n\nRussian speakers, who make an extra distinction between light and dark blue in their language, are better able to visually discriminate shades of blue. The Piraha, a tribe in Brazil, whose language has only terms like few and many instead of numerals, are not able to keep track of exact quantities.\n\nIn one study German and Spanish speakers were asked to describe objects having opposite gender assignment in those two languages. The descriptions they gave differed in a way predicted by grammatical gender. For example, when asked to describe a \"key\"—a word that is masculine in German and feminine in Spanish—the German speakers were more likely to use words like \"hard,\" \"heavy,\" \"jagged,\" \"metal,\" \"serrated,\" and \"useful,\" whereas Spanish speakers were more likely to say \"golden,\" \"intricate,\" \"little,\" \"lovely,\" \"shiny,\" and \"tiny.\" To describe a \"bridge,\" which is feminine in German and masculine in Spanish, the German speakers said \"beautiful,\" \"elegant,\" \"fragile,\" \"peaceful,\" \"pretty,\" and \"slender,\" and the Spanish speakers said \"big,\" \"dangerous,\" \"long,\" \"strong,\" \"sturdy,\" and \"towering.\" This was the case even though all testing was done in English, a language without grammatical gender.\n\nIn a series of studies conducted by Gary Lupyan, people were asked to look at a series of images of imaginary aliens. Whether each alien was friendly or hostile was determined by certain subtle features but participants were not told what these were. They had to guess whether each alien was friendly or hostile, and after each response they were told if they were correct or not, helping them learn the subtle cues that distinguished friend from foe. A quarter of the participants were told in advance that the friendly aliens were called \"leebish\" and the hostile ones \"grecious\", while another quarter were told the opposite. For the rest, the aliens remained nameless. It was found that participants who were given names for the aliens learned to categorize the aliens far more quickly, reaching 80 per cent accuracy in less than half the time taken by those not told the names. By the end of the test, those told the names could correctly categorize 88 per cent of aliens, compared to just 80 per cent for the rest. It was concluded that naming objects helps us categorize and memorize them.\n\nIn another series of experiments a group of people was asked to view furniture from an IKEA catalog. Half the time they were asked to label the object – whether it was a chair or lamp, for example – while the rest of the time they had to say whether or not they liked it. It was found that when asked to label items, people were later less likely to recall the specific details of products, such as whether a chair had arms or not. It was concluded that labeling objects helps our minds build a prototype of the typical object in the group at the expense of individual features.\n\nA common claim is that language is governed by social conventions. Questions inevitably arise on surrounding topics. One question is, \"What exactly is a convention, and how do we study it?\", and second, \"To what extent do conventions even matter in the study of language?\" David Kellogg Lewis proposed a worthy reply to the first question by expounding the view that a convention is a \"rationally self-perpetuating regularity in behavior\". However, this view seems to compete to some extent with the Gricean view of speaker's meaning, requiring either one (or both) to be weakened if both are to be taken as true.\n\nSome have questioned whether or not conventions are relevant to the study of meaning at all. Noam Chomsky proposed that the study of language could be done in terms of the I-Language, or internal language of persons. If this is so, then it undermines the pursuit of explanations in terms of conventions, and relegates such explanations to the domain of \"meta-semantics\". \"Metasemantics\" is a term used by philosopher of language Robert Stainton to describe all those fields that attempt to explain how semantic facts arise. One fruitful source of research involves investigation into the social conditions that give rise to, or are associated with, meanings and languages. \"Etymology\" (the study of the origins of words) and \"stylistics\" (philosophical argumentation over what makes \"good grammar\", relative to a particular language) are two other examples of fields that are taken to be meta-semantic.\n\nNot surprisingly, many separate (but related) fields have investigated the topic of linguistic convention within their own research paradigms. The presumptions that prop up each theoretical view are of interest to the philosopher of language. For instance, one of the major fields of sociology, symbolic interactionism, is based on the insight that human social organization is based almost entirely on the use of meanings. In consequence, any explanation of a social structure (like an institution) would need to account for the shared meanings which create and sustain the structure.\n\nRhetoric is the study of the particular words that people use to achieve the proper emotional and rational effect in the listener, be it to persuade, provoke, endear, or teach. Some relevant applications of the field include the examination of propaganda and didacticism, the examination of the purposes of swearing and pejoratives (especially how it influences the behavior of others, and defines relationships), or the effects of gendered language. It can also be used to study linguistic transparency (or speaking in an accessible manner), as well as performative utterances and the various tasks that language can perform (called \"speech acts\"). It also has applications to the study and interpretation of law, and helps give insight to the logical concept of the domain of discourse.\n\nLiterary theory is a discipline that some literary theorists claim overlaps with the philosophy of language. It emphasizes the methods that readers and critics use in understanding a text. This field, an outgrowth of the study of how to properly interpret messages, is unsurprisingly closely tied to the ancient discipline of hermeneutics.\n\nIn Continental philosophy, language is not studied as a separate discipline, as it is in analytic philosophy. Rather, it is an inextricable part of many other areas of thought, such as phenomenology, semiotics, hermeneutics, Heideggerean ontology, existentialism, structuralism, deconstruction and critical theory. The idea of language is often related to that of logic in its Greek sense as \"logos\", meaning discourse or dialectic. Language and concepts are also seen as having been formed by history and politics, or even by historical philosophy itself.\n\nThe field of hermeneutics, and the theory of interpretation in general, has played a significant role in 20th century Continental philosophy of language and ontology beginning with Martin Heidegger. Heidegger combines phenomenology with the hermeneutics of Wilhelm Dilthey. Heidegger believed language was one of the most important concepts for \"Dasein\". Heidegger believed that language today is worn out because of overuse of important words, and would be inadequate for in-depth study of Being (\"Sein\"). For example, \"Sein\" (\"being\"), the word itself, is saturated with multiple meanings. Thus, he invented new vocabulary and linguistic styles, based on Ancient Greek and Germanic etymological word relations, to disambiguate commonly used words. He avoided words like consciousness, ego, human, nature, etc. and instead talked holistically of Being-in-the-world, Dasein.\n\nWith such new concepts as \"Being-in-the-world\", Heidegger constructs his theory of language, centered on speech. He believed speech (talking, listening, silence) was the most essential and pure form of language. Heidegger claims writing is only a supplement to speech, because even a reader constructs or contributes one's own \"talk\" while reading. The most important feature of language is its \"projectivity\", the idea that language is prior to human speech. This means that when one is \"thrown\" into the world, his existence is characterized from the beginning by a certain pre-comprehension of the world. However, it is only after naming, or \"articulation of intelligibility\", can one have primary access to \"Dasein\" and \"Being-in-the-World\".\n\nHans-Georg Gadamer expanded on these ideas of Heidegger and proposed a complete hermeneutic ontology. In \"Truth and Method\", Gadamer describes language as \"the medium in which substantive understanding and agreement take place between two people.\" In addition, Gadamer claims that the world is linguistically constituted, and cannot exist apart from language. For example, monuments and statues cannot communicate without the aid of language. Gadamer also claims that every language constitutes a world-view, because the linguistic nature of the world frees each individual from an objective environment: \"... the fact that we have a world at all depends upon [language] and presents itself in it. The world as world exists for man as for no other creature in the world.\"\n\nPaul Ricœur, on the other hand, proposed a hermeneutics which, reconnecting with the original Greek sense of the term, emphasized the discovery of hidden meanings in the equivocal terms (or \"symbols\") of ordinary language. Other philosophers who have worked in this tradition include Luigi Pareyson and Jacques Derrida.\n\nSemiotics is the study of the transmission, reception and meaning of signs and symbols in general. In this field, human language (both natural and artificial) is just one among many ways that humans (and other conscious beings) are able to communicate. It allows them to take advantage of and effectively manipulate the external world in order to create meaning for themselves and transmit this meaning to others. Every object, every person, every event, and every force communicates (or \"signifies\") continuously. The ringing of a telephone for example, \"is\" the telephone. The smoke that I see on the horizon is the sign that there is a fire. The smoke signifies. The things of the world, in this vision, seem to be \"labeled\" precisely for intelligent beings who only need to interpret them in the way that humans do. Everything has meaning. True communication, including the use of human language, however, requires someone (a \"sender\") who sends a \"message\", or \"text\", in some code to someone else (a \"receiver\"). Language is studied only insofar as it is one of these forms (the most sophisticated form) of communication. Some important figures in the history of semiotics, are Charles Sanders Peirce, Roland Barthes, and Roman Jakobson. In modern times, its best-known figures include Umberto Eco, A.J. Greimas, Louis Hjelmslev, and Tullio De Mauro. Investigations on signs in non-human communications are subject to biosemiotics, a field founded in the late 20th century by Thomas Sebeok and Thure von Uexküll.\n\nOne issue that has troubled philosophers of language and logic is the problem of the vagueness of words. The specific instances of vagueness that most interest philosophers of language are those where the existence of \"borderline cases\" makes it seemingly impossible to say whether a predicate is true or false. Classic examples are \"is tall\" or \"is bald\", where it cannot be said that some borderline case (some given person) is tall or not-tall. In consequence, vagueness gives rise to the paradox of the heap. Many theorists have attempted to solve the paradox by way of \"n\"-valued logics, such as fuzzy logic, which have radically departed from classical two-valued logics.\n\nOne debate that has captured the interest of many philosophers is the debate over the meaning of \"universals\". One might ask, for example, \"When people say the word \"rocks\", what is it that the word represents?\" Two different answers have emerged to this question. Some have said that the expression stands for some real, abstract universal out in the world called \"rocks\". Others have said that the word stands for some collection of particular, individual rocks that we associate with merely a nomenclature. The former position has been called \"philosophical realism\", and the latter \"nominalism\".\n\nThe issue here can be explicated if we examine the proposition \"Socrates is a Man\".\n\nFrom the radical realist's perspective, the connection between S and M is a connection between two abstract entities. There is an entity, \"man\", and an entity, \"Socrates\". These two things connect in some way or overlap.\n\nFrom a nominalist's perspective, the connection between S and M is the connection between a particular entity (Socrates) and a vast collection of particular things (men). To say that Socrates is a man is to say that Socrates is a part of the class of \"men\". Another perspective is to consider \"man\" to be a \"property\" of the entity, \"Socrates\".\n\nThere is a third way, between nominalism and radical realism, usually called \"moderate realism\" and attributed to Aristotle and Thomas Aquinas. Moderate realists hold that \"man\" refers to a real essence or form that is really present and identical in Socrates and all other men, but \"man\" does not exist as a separate and distinct entity. This is a realist position, because \"Man\" is real, insofar as it really exists in all men; but it is a moderate realism, because \"Man\" is not an entity separate from the men it informs.\n\nMany philosophical discussions of language begin by clarifying terminology. One item which has undergone significant scrutiny is the idea of language itself. Those philosophers who have set themselves to the task ask two important questions: \"What is language in general?\" and \"What is a particular, individual language?\"\n\nSome semiotic outlooks have stressed that language is the mere manipulation and use of symbols in order to draw attention to signified content. If this were so, then humans would not be the sole possessors of language skills. On the other hand, many works by linguist Noam Chomsky have emphasized the role of syntax as a characteristic of any language.\n\nMore puzzling is the question of what it is that distinguishes one particular language from another. What is it that makes \"English\" English? What's the difference between Spanish and French? Chomsky has indicated that the search for what it means to be a language must begin with the study of the internal language of persons, or I-languages, which are based upon certain rules (or principles and parameters) which generate grammars. This view is supported in part by the conviction that there is no clear, general, and principled difference between one language and the next, and which may apply across the field of all languages. Other attempts, which he dubs \"E-languages,\" have tried to explain a language as usage within a specific speech community with a specific set of well-formed utterances in mind (markedly associated with linguists like Bloomfield).\n\nAnother of the questions that has divided philosophers of language is the extent to which formal logic can be used as an effective tool in the analysis and understanding of natural languages. While most philosophers, including Frege, Alfred Tarski and Rudolf Carnap, have been more or less skeptical about formalizing natural languages, many of them developed formal languages for use in the sciences or formalized \"parts\" of natural language for investigation. Some of the most prominent members of this tradition of formal semantics include Tarski, Carnap, Richard Montague and Donald Davidson.\n\nOn the other side of the divide, and especially prominent in the 1950s and 60s, were the so-called \"Ordinary language philosophers\". Philosophers such as P. F. Strawson, John Langshaw Austin and Gilbert Ryle stressed the importance of studying natural language without regard to the truth-conditions of sentences and the references of terms. They did not believe that the social and practical dimensions of linguistic meaning could be captured by any attempts at formalization using the tools of logic. Logic is one thing and language is something entirely different. What is important is not expressions themselves but what people use them to do in communication.\n\nHence, Austin developed a theory of speech acts, which described the kinds of things which can be done with a sentence (assertion, command, inquiry, exclamation) in different contexts of use on different occasions. Strawson argued that the truth-table semantics of the logical connectives (e.g., formula_1, formula_2 and formula_3) do not capture the meanings of their natural language counterparts (\"and\", \"or\" and \"if-then\"). While the \"ordinary language\" movement basically died out in the 1970s, its influence was crucial to the development of the fields of speech-act theory and the study of pragmatics. Many of its ideas have been absorbed by theorists such as Kent Bach, Robert Brandom, Paul Horwich and Stephen Neale. In recent work, the division between semantics and pragmatics has become a lively topic of discussion at the interface of philosophy and linguistics, for instance in work by Sperber and Wilson, Carston and Levinson.\n\nWhile keeping these traditions in mind, the question of whether or not there is any grounds for conflict between the formal and informal approaches is far from being decided. Some theorists, like Paul Grice, have been skeptical of any claims that there is a substantial conflict between logic and natural language.\n\nTranslation and interpretation are two other problems that philosophers of language have attempted to confront. In the 1950s, W.V. Quine argued for the indeterminacy of meaning and reference based on the principle of \"radical translation\". In \"Word and Object\", Quine asks readers to imagine a situation in which they are confronted with a previously undocumented, group of indigenous people where they must attempt to make sense of the utterances and gestures that its members make. This is the situation of radical translation.\n\nHe claimed that, in such a situation, it is impossible \"in principle\" to be absolutely certain of the meaning or reference that a speaker of the indigenous peoples language attaches to an utterance. For example, if a speaker sees a rabbit and says \"gavagai\", is she referring to the whole rabbit, to the rabbit's tail, or to a temporal part of the rabbit. All that can be done is to examine the utterance as a part of the overall linguistic behaviour of the individual, and then use these observations to interpret the meaning of all other utterances. From this basis, one can form a manual of translation. But, since reference is indeterminate, there will be many such manuals, no one of which is more correct than the others. For Quine, as for Wittgenstein and Austin, meaning is not something that is associated with a single word or sentence, but is rather something that, if it can be attributed at all, can only be attributed to a whole language. The resulting view is called \"semantic holism\".\n\nInspired by Quine's discussion, Donald Davidson extended the idea of radical translation to the interpretation of utterances and behavior within a single linguistic community. He dubbed this notion \"radical interpretation\". He suggested that the meaning that any individual ascribed to a sentence could only be determined by attributing meanings to many, perhaps all, of the individual's assertions, as well as their mental states and attitudes.\n\nLinguistic speculation in India is attested since the Vedic period (Iron Age), beginning with the deification of \"vāk\" \"speech\" and the role of language (utterance, shabda) in ritual. Sanskrit grammatical tradition gives rise to linguistic philosophy beginning in the final centuries BC and early centuries AD, notably in the philosophical schools of Nyaya and Mimamsa.\n\nIn the West, inquiry into language stretches back to the 5th century BC with Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and the Stoics. Both in India and in Greece, linguistic speculation predates the emergence of grammatical traditions of systematic description of language, which emerged around the 5th century BC in India (see Yāska), and around the 3rd century BC in Greece (see Rhianus).\n\nIn the dialogue \"Cratylus\", Plato considered the question of whether the names of things were determined by convention or by nature. He criticized conventionalism because it led to the bizarre consequence that anything can be conventionally denominated by any name. Hence, it cannot account for the correct or incorrect application of a name. He claimed that there was a natural correctness to names. To do this, he pointed out that compound words and phrases have a range of correctness. He also argued that primitive names had a natural correctness, because each phoneme represented basic ideas or sentiments. For example, for Plato the letter \"l\" and its sound represented the idea of softness. However, by the end of the \"Cronic\", he had admitted that some social conventions were also involved, and that there were faults in the idea that phonemes had individual meanings.\n\nAristotle interested himself with the issues of logic, categories, and meaning creation. He separated all things into categories of species and genus. He thought that the meaning of a predicate was established through an abstraction of the similarities between various individual things. This theory later came to be called \"nominalism\". However, since Aristotle took these similarities to be constituted by a real commonality of form, he is more often considered a proponent of \"moderate realism\".\n\nThe Stoic philosophers made important contributions to the analysis of grammar, distinguishing five parts of speech: nouns, verbs, appellatives (names or epithets), conjunctions and articles. They also developed a sophisticated doctrine of the \"lektón\" associated with each sign of a language, but distinct from both the sign itself and the thing to which it refers. This \"lektón\" was the meaning (or sense) of every term. The \"lektón\" of a sentence is what we would now call its proposition. Only propositions were considered \"truth-bearers\" or \"truth-vehicles\" (i.e., they could be called true or false) while sentences were simply their vehicles of expression. Different \"lektá\" could also express things besides propositions, such as commands, questions and exclamations.\n\nMedieval philosophers were greatly interested in the subtleties of language and its usage. For many scholastics, this interest was provoked by the necessity of translating Greek texts into Latin. There were several noteworthy philosophers of language in the medieval period. According to Peter J. King, (although this has been disputed), Peter Abelard anticipated the modern ideas of \"sense and reference\". Also, William of Ockham's \"Summa Logicae\" brought forward one of the first serious proposals for codifying a mental language.\n\nThe scholastics of the high medieval period, such as Ockham and John Duns Scotus, considered logic to be a \"scientia sermocinalis\" (science of language). The result of their studies was the elaboration of linguistic-philosophical notions whose complexity and subtlety has only recently come to be appreciated. Many of the most interesting problems of modern philosophy of language were anticipated by medieval thinkers. The phenomena of vagueness and ambiguity were analyzed intensely, and this led to an increasing interest in problems related to the use of \"syncategorematic\" words such as \"and\", \"or\", \"not\", \"if\", and \"every\". The study of \"categorematic\" words (or \"terms\") and their properties was also developed greatly. One of the major developments of the scholastics in this area was the doctrine of the \"suppositio\". The suppositio of a term is the interpretation that is given of it in a specific context. It can be \"proper\" or \"improper\" (as when it is used in metaphor, metonyms and other figures of speech). A proper suppositio, in turn, can be either formal or material accordingly when it refers to its usual non-linguistic referent (as in \"Charles is a man\"), or to itself as a linguistic entity (as in \"\"Charles\" has seven letters\"). Such a classification scheme is the precursor of modern distinctions between use and mention, and between language and metalanguage.\n\nThere is a tradition called speculative grammar which existed from the 11th to the 13th century. Leading scholars included, among others, Martin of Dace and Thomas of Erfurth.\n\nLinguists of the Renaissance and Baroque periods such as Johannes Goropius Becanus, Athanasius Kircher and John Wilkins were infatuated with the idea of a philosophical language reversing the confusion of tongues, influenced by the gradual discovery of Chinese characters and Egyptian hieroglyphs (\"Hieroglyphica\"). This thought parallels the idea that there might be a universal language of music.\n\nEuropean scholarship began to absorb the Indian linguistic tradition only from the mid-18th century, pioneered by Jean François Pons and Henry Thomas Colebrooke (the \"editio princeps\" of Varadarāja, a 17th-century Sanskrit grammarian, dating to 1849).\n\nIn the early 19th century, the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard insisted that language ought to play a larger role in Western philosophy. He argues that philosophy has not sufficiently focused on the role language plays in cognition and that future philosophy ought to proceed with a conscious focus on language:\n\nThe phrase \"linguistic turn\" was used to describe the noteworthy emphasis that contemporary philosophers put upon language.\n\nLanguage began to play a central role in Western philosophy in the early 20th century. One of the central figures involved in this development was the German philosopher Gottlob Frege, whose work on philosophical logic and the philosophy of language in the late 19th century influenced the work of 20-century analytic philosophers Bertrand Russell and Ludwig Wittgenstein. The philosophy of language became so pervasive that for a time, in analytic philosophy circles, philosophy as a whole was understood to be a matter of philosophy of language.\n\nIn Continental philosophy, the foundation work was Ferdinand de Saussure's \"Cours de linguistique générale\", published posthumously in 1916.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22981", "title": "Phone (phonetics)", "text": "Phone (phonetics)\n\nIn phonetics and linguistics, a phone is any distinct speech sound or gesture, regardless of whether the exact sound is critical to the meanings of words.\n\nIn contrast, a phoneme is a speech sound in a given language that, if swapped with another phoneme, would change the meaning of the word. Phones are absolute and are not specific to any language, but phonemes can be discussed only in reference to specific languages.\n\nFor example, the English words \"kid\" and \"kit\" end with two distinct phonemes, and swapping one for the other would change the word's meaning. However, the difference between the /p/ sounds in \"pun\" ([pʰ], with aspiration) and \"spun\" ([p], without aspiration) never affects the meaning of a word in English. Thus, [pʰ] and [p] are two distinct phones but not distinct phonemes in English.\n\nBy contrast, swapping the same two sounds in Hindi or Urdu can change one word into another: [pʰal] (फल) means 'fruit', and [pal] (पल) means 'moment' . The sounds are then different phonemes.\n\nAs can be seen in those examples, phonemes, rather than phones, are the features of speech that are reflected (more or less imperfectly) in a writing system.\n\nIn the context of spoken languages, a phone is an unanalyzed sound of a language . A phone is a speech segment that possesses distinct physical or perceptual properties and serves as the basic unit of phonetic speech analysis. Phones are generally either vowels or consonants.\n\nA phonetic transcription (based on phones) is enclosed within square brackets ([ ]) rather than the slashes (/ /) of a phonemic transcription (based on phonemes). Phones (and often phonemes also) are commonly represented by using symbols of the IPA.\n\nFor example, the English word \"spin\" consists of four phones, [s], [p], [ɪ] and [n], and the word thus has the phonetic representation [spɪn]. The word \"pin\" has three phones; in that word, the initial sound is aspirated and so can be represented as [pʰ]; the word's phonetic representation would then be [pʰɪn]. (The precise features that are shown in a phonetic representation depend on whether a narrow or broad transcription is being used and the features that the writer wishes to draw attention in a particular context.)\n\nWhen phones are considered to be realizations of the same phoneme, they are called allophones of that phoneme (more information on the methods of making such assignments can be found under phoneme). In English, for example, [p] and [pʰ] are considered allophones of a single phoneme, which is written /p/. The phonemic transcriptions of those two words is thus /spɪn/ and /pɪn/, and aspiration no longer being shown since it is not distinctive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24021", "title": "Place of articulation", "text": "Place of articulation\n\nIn articulatory phonetics, the place of articulation (also point of articulation) of a consonant is the point of contact where an obstruction occurs in the vocal tract between an articulatory gesture, an active articulator (typically some part of the tongue), and a passive location (typically some part of the roof of the mouth). Along with the manner of articulation and the phonation, it gives the consonant its distinctive sound.\n\nThe terminology in this article has been developed for precisely describing all the consonants in all the world's spoken languages. No known language distinguishes all of the places described here so less precision is needed to distinguish the sounds of a particular language.\n\nThe human voice produces sounds in the following manner:\n\n\nThe \"larynx\" or \"voice box\" is a cylindrical framework of cartilage that serves to anchor the vocal folds. When the muscles of the vocal folds contract, the airflow from the lungs is impeded until the vocal folds are forced apart again by the increasing air pressure from the lungs. The process continues in a periodic cycle that is felt as a vibration (buzzing). In singing, the vibration frequency of the vocal folds determines the pitch of the sound produced. Voiced phonemes such as the pure vowels are, by definition, distinguished by the buzzing sound of this periodic oscillation of the vocal cords.\n\nThe lips of the mouth can be used in a similar way to create a similar sound, as any toddler or trumpeter can demonstrate. A rubber balloon, inflated but not tied off and stretched tightly across the neck produces a squeak or buzz, depending on the tension across the neck and the level of pressure inside the balloon. Similar actions with similar results occur when the vocal cords are contracted or relaxed across the larynx.\n\nThe passive place of articulation is the place on the more stationary part of the vocal tract where the articulation occurs and can be anywhere from the lips, upper teeth, gums, or roof of the mouth to the back of the throat. Although it is a continuum, there are several contrastive areas so languages may distinguish consonants by articulating them in different areas, but few languages contrast two sounds within the same area unless there is some other feature which contrasts as well. The following areas are contrastive:\n\nThe regions are not strictly separated. For instance, in some sounds in many languages, the surface of the tongue contacts a relatively large area from the back of the upper teeth to the alveolar ridge, which is common enough to have received its own name, \". Likewise, the alveolar and post-alveolar regions merge into each other, as do the hard and soft palate, the soft palate and the uvula, and all adjacent regions. Terms like \"pre-velar\" (intermediate between palatal and velar), \"post-velar\" (between velar and uvular), and \"upper\" vs. \"lower\" pharyngeal may be used to specify more precisely where an articulation takes place. However, although a language may contrast pre-velar and post-velar sounds, it does not also contrast them with palatal and uvular sounds (of the same type of consonant) so contrasts are limited to the number above, if not always their exact location.\n\nThe articulatory gesture of the active place of articulation involves the more mobile part of the vocal tract, typically some part of the tongue or lips. The following areas are known to be contrastive:\n\nIn bilabial consonants, both lips move so the articulatory gesture brings the lips together, but by convention, the lower lip is said to be active and the upper lip passive. Similarly, in linguolabial consonants the tongue contacts the upper lip with the upper lip actively moving down to meet the tongue; nonetheless, the tongue is conventionally said to be active and the lip passive if for no other reason than that the parts of the mouth below the vocal tract are typically active, and those above the vocal tract are typically passive.\n\nIn dorsal gestures, different parts of the body of the tongue contact different parts of the roof of the mouth, but it cannot be independently controlled so they are all subsumed under the term \"dorsal\". That is unlike coronal gestures involving the front of the tongue, which is more flexible.\n\nThe epiglottis may be active, contacting the pharynx, or passive, being contacted by the aryepiglottal folds. Distinctions made in these laryngeal areas are very difficult to observe and are the subject of ongoing investigation, and several still-unidentified combinations are thought possible.\n\nThe glottis acts upon itself. There is a sometimes fuzzy line between glottal, aryepiglottal, and epiglottal consonants and phonation, which uses these same areas.\n\nUnlike the passive articulation, which is a continuum, there are five discrete active articulators: the lip (\"labial consonants\"), the flexible front of the tongue (\"coronal consonants\": laminal, apical, and subapical), the middle–back of the tongue (\"dorsal consonants\"), the root of the tongue together with the epiglottis (\"pharyngeal\" or \"radical consonants\"), and the glottis (\"glottal consonants\"). The articulators are discrete in that they can act independently of each other, and two or more may work together in what is called \"coarticulation\" (see below). The distinction, however, between the various coronal articulations, laminal, apical, and subapical is a continuum, without clear boundaries.\n\nThe following table shows the possible combinations of active and passive articulators.\n\nThe possible locations for sibilants as well as non-sibilants to occur are indicated in dashed red. For sibilants, there are additional complications involving tongue shape; see the article on sibilants for a chart of possible articulations.\n\nA precise vocabulary of compounding the two places of articulation is sometimes seen. However, it is usually reduced to the passive articulation, which is generally sufficient. Thus \"dorsal–palatal\", \"dorsal–velar\", and \"dorsal–uvular\" are usually just called \"palatal\", \"velar\", and \"uvular\". If there is ambiguity, additional terms have been invented, so \"subapical–palatal\" is more commonly called \"retroflex\".\n\n\"NOTE:\" Additional shades of passive articulation are sometimes specified using \"pre-\" or \"post-\", for example \"prepalatal\" (near the border between the postalveolar region and the hard palate; \"prevelar\" (at the back of the hard palate, also \"post-palatal\" or even \"medio-palatal\" for the middle of the hard palate); or \"postvelar\" (near the border of the soft palate and the uvula). They can be useful in the precise description of sounds that are articulated somewhat farther forward or back than a prototypical consonant; for this purpose, the \"fronted\" and \"retracted\" IPA diacritics can be used. However, no additional shade is needed to phonemically distinguish two consonants in a single language.\n\nConsonants that have the same place of articulation, such as the alveolar sounds in English, are said to be \"homorganic\". Similarly, labial and velar are homorganic. A homorganic nasal rule, an instance of assimilation, operates in many languages, where a nasal consonant must be homorganic with a following stop. We see this with English \"intolerable\" but \"implausible\"; another example is found in Yoruba, where the present tense of \"ba\" \"hide\" is \"mba\" \"is hiding\", while the present of \"sun\" \"sleep\" is \"nsun\" \"is sleeping\".\n\nThe tongue contacts the mouth with a surface that has two dimensions: length and width. So far, only points of articulation along its length have been considered. However, articulation varies along its width as well. When the airstream is directed down the center of the tongue, the consonant is said to be \"central\". If, however, it is deflected off to one side, escaping between the side of the tongue and the side teeth, it is said to be \"lateral\". Nonetheless, for simplicity's sake the place of articulation is assumed to be the point along the length of the tongue, and the consonant may in addition be said to be central or lateral. That is, a consonant may be lateral alveolar, like English (the tongue contacts the alveolar ridge, but allows air to flow off to the side), or lateral palatal, like Castilian Spanish \"ll\" . Some Indigenous Australian languages contrast dental, alveolar, retroflex, and palatal laterals, and many Native American languages have lateral fricatives and affricates as well.\n\nSome languages have consonants with two simultaneous places of articulation, which is called coarticulation. When these are doubly articulated, the articulators must be independently movable, and therefore there may be only one each from the major categories \"labial, coronal, dorsal\" and \"pharyngeal\".\n\nThe only common doubly articulated consonants are labial–velar stops like , and less commonly , which are found throughout Western Africa and Central Africa. Other combinations are rare but include labial–(post)alveolar stops , found as distinct consonants only in a single language in New Guinea, and a uvular–epiglottal stop, , found in Somali.\n\nMore commonly, coarticulation involves secondary articulation of an approximantic nature. Then, both articulations can be similar such as labialized labial or palatalized velar . That is the case of English , which is a velar consonant with secondary labial articulation.\n\nCommon coarticulations include these:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1554132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1554132", "title": "Political jurisprudence", "text": "Political jurisprudence\n\nPolitical jurisprudence is a legal theory that some judicial decisions are motivated more by politics than by unbiased judgment. According to Professor Martin Shapiro of University of California, Berkeley, who first noted the theory in 1964: \"The core of political jurisprudence is a vision of courts as political agencies and judges as political actors.\" Legal decisions are no longer focused on a judge's analytical analysis (as in Analytical jurisprudence), but rather it is the judges themselves that become the focus for determining how the decision was reached. Political jurisprudence advocates that judges are not machines but are influenced and swayed by the political system and by their own personal beliefs of how the law \"should\" be decided. That is not to say necessarily that judges \"arbitrarily\" make decisions they personally feel should be right without regard to stare decisis. Instead they are making decisions based on their political, legal, and personal beliefs \"as it relates\" to the law. Deeply, and with more implication for the society, the decisions of the judges is not only modified from the politics, but modify itself the politics and the process of law making in a so influent way, that we can say that the policy-making is \"judicialized\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34051363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34051363", "title": "Red Heat: Conspiracy, Murder and the Cold War in the Caribbean", "text": "Red Heat: Conspiracy, Murder and the Cold War in the Caribbean\n\nRed Heat: Conspiracy, Murder, and the Cold War in the Caribbean is a historical study of the political scene in the Caribbean during the 1950s and 1960s, written by the British historian Alex von Tunzelmann and first published in 2011 by Henry Holt and Company. Educated at Oxford University, Von Tunzelmann (1977-) had previously published a study of the collapse of British India, entitled \"\" (2007).\n\n\"Red Heat\" explores the political regimes of three presidents who each ruled over a Caribbean nation during the 1950s and 1960s; François Duvalier of Haiti, Rafael Trujillo of the Dominican Republic and Fidel Castro of Cuba. In particular it looks at their administrations in the context of the Cold War between the capitalist United States and the socialist Soviet Union, with the former backing Duvalier and Trujillo and the latter backing Castro.\n\nThe book was widely reviewed in the mainstream press in both the United Kingdom and United States, gaining a predominantly positive reception, with most reviewers praising von Tunzelmann's writing style.\n\nThe book covers the Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, and Lyndon B. Johnson administrations in their dealings with Fulgencio Batista, Fidel Castro, Rafael Trujillo and François Duvalier. Tunzelmann describes the US administration as being blindsided during the Batista regime. As Castro emerges, the spectre of communism at its backdoor becomes the overriding concern of American policy in its dealings with its neighbors. Tunzelmann makes the case that Fidel Castro (in contrast to his brother Raul and Che Guevara) was not a communist at the beginning of the revolution, rather a nationalist who wanted to free his country from US domination and corruption, yet was gradually pushed by American policy into the communist camp. His initial overtures toward the US government were rebuffed, and the CIA made numerous attempts to undermine the revolution and assassinate him. With the ill-fated Bay of Pigs invasion, there was no way back. Castro sought shelter in the Soviet camp. The escalating conflict with Castro led to the extremely dangerous Cuban missile crisis when blunders by the superpowers almost led to a nuclear holocaust. In their anti-communistic phobia the US supported other regimes in the Caribbean to prevent another communistic take-over. In the course of this policy, it supported knowingly murderous dictators such as Duvalier and Trujillo. Tunzelmann explains that these \"puppets\" skillfully exploited their masters producing communist threats to extract money and support. \"The result was tyranny, conspiracy, murder, and black magic; it was poverty, violence, and a new model of global interventionism that still dominates American policy.\" (page 6) The tragic outcome of the secret war in the Caribbean was that it \"toppled democracies, supported dictators, and financed terrorism\". (page 376)\n\nIn the \"London Evening Standard\", Ian Thomson referred to the book as \"a zingy, well-researched history of the Cold War and its depredations in the Caribbean\" which \"offers a James Ellroy-like canvas of Duvalierist corruption, dubious CIA operatives and White House paranoia.\" Ultimately, Thomson considering it to be a \"highly readable synthesis of all the available accounts\" already published of the period.\n\nWriting for the U.K. newspaper \"The Guardian\", Jad Adams described \"Red Heat\" as providing a \"vivid image\" of the events in the Caribbean at the time, believing that it \"deftly juggles\" the histories of Cuba, Haiti and the Dominican Republic. He positively noted that the book's dust jacket \"is designed like that for a thriller, and there is certainly a deal of sex and violence between these covers, told at a cracking pace.\"\n\nThe journalist and historian Richard Gott, writing in \"The Observer\", noted his opinion that it was \"refreshing to have the view of a writer who was not alive at the time\", with Von Tunzelmann therefore being \"unaffected by personal reminiscence\". Gott felt that as a result the author was clearly \"amazed\" by what she had unearthed in the \"archives and the huge library of published works\" on the subject, presenting her conclusions in a \"forthright\" manner.\n\nIn his article for newspaper \"The Washington Post\", David Hoffman described \"Red Heat\" as containing \"Suitcases full of cash, torture chambers, gunboats, coups, dictatorship and revolutionary fervor spill[ing] out of these pages.\" Noting that Von Tunzelmann set Castro apart from Trujillo and Duvalier by portraying him in a more positive light, Hoffman argues that in her writing, the author \"carries a distinct, admonishing voice\" which was evidently \"disdainful of the errors made by the United States [and] outraged by the brutality of the island bosses\". Furthermore, he felt that she \"packs a lot into these pages, sometimes more than a reader can absorb, including a flock of minor characters.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" featured a review of the book by the news correspondent Tom Gjelten, who noted that in his opinion, Von Tunzelmann had clearly set out to emphasise that this period was \"a deplorable chapter in American history\", an assessment which he agreed with. Expanding on this, he felt however that whilst the work was \"thorough in scope and quite readable\", von Tunzelmann was \"so scolding in tone that her book is harder to finish than it should be.\" Feeling that the author had sometimes pushed her own opinions ahead of the evidence, Gjelten wrote that:\n\nMost of the references cited by von Tunzelmann consist of books by other people, but she apparently has read enough to satisfy her curiosity on questions that have confounded other historians, like when, exactly, Fidel Castro actually became a Communist. She declares flatly that when he announced in 1961 that he had long been a Marxist-Leninist in secret, \"it was not accurate. It was meant to impress the Soviets.\" Maybe, but we do not know that for sure.\n\nUltimately, he felt that the book was not as good as that of its predecessor, \"Indian Summer\", because its author \"overreaches in her assessment of her story's importance\", claiming that the events in the Caribbean at this time dramatically changed the world, something he was sceptical about.\n\nWriting in \"The Huffington Post\", Arian Smedley was largely positive of the book, noting that the \"author's editorial comments make for an interesting read, but they sometimes get in the way of the story.\" Believing that von Tunzelmann \"does make points that aren't hard to agree with\", Smedly cited the example of the \"inherent hypocrisy of the U.S. intervening in Cuba to protect against the potential danger of communism while ignoring human rights violations in neighboring nations.\" Ultimately, Smedley felt that \"At points in the book, \"Red Heat\" is so bizarre, you may not believe what you're reading, and at times, the story is so horrifying, you may be brought to tears.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "20941708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20941708", "title": "Religious views on same-sex marriage", "text": "Religious views on same-sex marriage\n\nMany views are held or have been expressed by religious organisations in relation to same-sex marriage. Arguments both in favor of and in opposition to same-sex marriage are often made on religious grounds and/or formulated in terms of religious doctrine. Although the majority of world religions oppose to same-sex marriage, the number of religious denominations that are conducting same-sex marriages have been increasing in recent times. Religious views on same-sex marriage are closely related to religious views on homosexuality.\n\nDue to the ambivalent language about homosexuality in Buddhist teachings, there has been no official stance put forth regarding the issue of marriage between members of the same gender.\n\nThere is no objection of the Buddha found in the Tipitaka. Buddha was neither supportive nor against marriages between members of the same gender. Also, from the Tipitaka, it is clear that the Buddha acknowledged the difference between hermaphrodites and homosexual practitioners. Hermaphrodites and eunuchs are not allowed to be ordained, but there is no sanction against homosexuality. As for the lay homosexual people, Buddha gave no rule or advice as to whether they should be allowed to marry or not. Buddha posted himself simply as the one who shows the way. He did not insist that he had any right to enforce on others what they should do. With this principle, the original teachings of the Buddha do not cover social ceremonies or rituals. Weddings and marriages of all kinds are regarded as mundane and have no place in Buddhism.\n\nOn October 11, 1995, some religious leaders gave testimony to the Commission on Sexual Orientation and the Law in support of same-gender marriages. Robert Aitken, co-founder and teacher of the Honolulu Diamond Sangha, a Zen Buddhist society established in 1959, with centers in Manoa and Palolo, gave written testimony on the subject of same-sex marriage. Aitken explains that by applying the Four Noble Abodes (loving kindness, compassion, joy in the attainment of others, and equanimity) to the issue of same-sex marriage, he finds compassion for and with the gay or lesbian couple who wish to confirm their love in a legal marriage. Aitken cites a precept about sex which Zen Buddhists inherit from earlier classical Buddhists teachings.\n\nIt is one of the sixteen precepts accepted by all Zen Buddhist monks, nuns and seriously committed lay people. He understands this to mean that self-centered sexual conduct is inappropriate, and he vows to avoid it. He believes that self-centered sex is exploitive sex, non-consensual sex, sex that harms others. It is unwholesome and destructive in a heterosexual as well as in a homosexual context. He goes on to explain that The Legislative Reference Bureau compiled a formidable list of rights that are extended to married couples in Hawai'i, but which are denied to couples\nwho are gay and lesbian.\n\nHe argues that gay and lesbian unions would be \"settled even more\" if they were acknowledged with basic married rights. Aitken says, \"A long-standing injustice would be corrected, and the entire gay and lesbian community would feel more accepted. This would stabilize a significant segment of our society, and we would all of us be better able to acknowledge our diversity. I urge you to advise the Legislature and the people of Hawai'i that legalizing gay and lesbian marriages will\nbe humane and in keeping with perenniel principles of decency and mutual encouragement.\"\n\nSupport and affirmation of marriage rights for same-sex couples generally comes from certain Christian denominations that are considered theologically liberal. Some examples of religious organizations voicing their support for same-sex marriage include Metropolitan Community Church, the United Church of Christ, the United Church of Canada, the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), the Episcopal Church of the United States, the Anglican Church of Canada, the Evangelical Lutheran Church In America,the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Canada, the Church of Denmark, the Church of Sweden, the Church of Norway, the Protestant Church in the Netherlands, the United Protestant Church of France, the United Protestant Church in Belgium, the Icelandic Church, the Protestant Church in Hesse and Nassau, the Evangelical Church in Berlin, Brandenburg and Silesian Upper Lusatia, the Evangelical Church in the Rhineland, the Protestant Church in Baden,the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Northern Germany, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), the Quakers, the liberal Old Catholic Church and the Unitarian Universalists church which supports the rights of gays and lesbians to marry both in the church and through the state. There are also progressive congregations and organizations within mainline Christian denominations, that have not yet officially voiced official support for same-sex marriage, but have spoken out themselves in support of same-sex marriage rights in the church and through the state.\n\nSome biblical scholars who hold to a more theologically liberal Christian view of same-sex marriage, such as representatives of the Metropolitan Community Church, make the claim that the word \"homosexual\" as found in many modern versions of the Bible is an interpolation and is not found in the original biblical texts. This argument from scripture holds that since the original authors of the Bible never mention 'homosexuals' or committed Christian homosexual couples, there cannot exist a biblical prohibition of marriage rights for them. According to the MCC, biblical texts interpreted by some as references to homosexuality refer only to specific sex acts and idolatrous worship which lack relevance to contemporary same-sex relationships. Christians who support religious and legal recognition of same-sex marriage may base their belief in same-sex marriage on the view that marriage, as an institution, and the structure of the family is a biblical moral imperative that should be honored by all couples, heterosexual and homosexual alike. Supporting same-sex marriage reflects their Christ-like commitment to the equality and dignity of all people. According to a theologian from the United Church of Canada, \"human sexual orientations, whether heterosexual, bisexual or homosexual, are a gift from God.\"\n\nSome same-sex married couples have challenged religious organizations that exclude them from access to public facilities maintained by those organizations, such as schools, health care centers, social service agencies, summer camps, homeless shelters, nursing homes, orphanages, retreat houses, community centers, and athletic programs. Opponents of same-sex marriages have expressed concerns that this limits their religious freedoms. For example, conservatives worry that a Christian college would risk its tax-exempt status by refusing to admit a legally married gay couple to married-student housing. Some legal analysts suggest that failure to reflect gay rights within their organizations may cost some religious groups their tax-exempt status.\n\nReligious arguments for and against marriage rights for same-sex couples are not always evenly divided among theologically conservative religious groups and liberal groups. While self-identified theological liberal organizations such as the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), support same-sex marriage, other more conservative and or orthodox organizations including some Mennonite churches, the Church of the Brethren, the Old Catholic Church, and the Church of Sweden also support marriage rights for gay and lesbian persons.\n\nThe Episcopal Church (as of 2015: 7,115 open parishes and missions; 2,009,084 active baptized members) at their 2009 General Convention declared that: \"bishops, particularly those in dioceses within civil jurisdictions where same-gender marriage, civil unions, or domestic partnerships are legal, may provide generous pastoral response to meet the needs of members of this Church.\" On July 9, 2012, the Episcopal Church passed a resolution that was to be voted on later to approve an official liturgy for blessing same-sex unions. This liturgy, called \"The Witnessing and Blessing of a Lifelong Covenant,\" would enable priests to bestow the church’s blessing on same-sex couples; priests could refuse to perform marriages, and bishops could prohibit same-sex marriage in their diocese. Denial would come without penalty, but the priest or diocese would have to direct same-sex couples they decline to another church or priest willing to perform the ceremony. The resolution was confirmed on July 9, 2015 (three years later) on a 129 for and 26 against (with 5 abstaining) vote.\n\nThe Metropolitan Community Church (43,000 members) sees its mission being social as well as spiritual by standing up for the rights of minorities, particularly those of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people. MCC has been a leading force in the development of Queer theology. As such, the MCC is notable for publicly supporting same-sex marriage as early as the 1960s. Notably in 1970 Troy Perry, the church's founder, filed the first lawsuit in the U.S. seeking legal recognition for same-sex marriages. Perry lost that lawsuit but launched the debate over same-sex marriage in the U.S. Today, MCC congregations around the world perform more than 6000 same-sex marriage ceremonies annually.\n\nThe Presbyterian Church USA General Assembly Permanent Judicial Commission ruled in 2006 that same-sex ceremonies are not forbidden, as long as they are not considered to be the same as marriage services. Debate on the issue within the church evolved over the years. In 2000, the General Assembly had approved language for the church constitution that stated church teachings were that people were \"to live either in fidelity within the covenant of marriage between a man and a woman or in chastity in singleness.,\" and barred church officers and property from being used for blessing or approval upon any other form of fidelity relationship, but ratification for this language was never obtained by the presbyteries. By 2014, the General Assembly passed an Authoritative Interpretation permitting pastors to sign marriage licences for same-gender couples where permitted by civil law in the states where their church was found, which took immediate effect.\n\nOn March 17, 2015, ratification by a majority of presbyteries was reached on a constitutional amendment passed by that same 2014 General Assembly, which broadened the definition of marriage in the Directory for Worship from only being between \"a man and a woman,\" to \"two people, traditionally a man and a woman,\" thus giving official sanction to, while not making it mandatory for, any congregation's pastor to preside over and bless marriage ceremonies for same-gender couples.\n\nThe United Church of Christ's General Synod (998,906 members) passed a resolution affirming \"equal marriage rights for all people regardless of gender\" in 2005. The church allows but does not require pastors to perform same-sex weddings.\n\nThe United Church of Canada (600,000 members) was active in the campaign that led to legal recognition of same-sex marriages in Canada. The United Church now allows individual congregations to decide whether or not to perform these marriages.\nLikewise, in the Protestant Church of the Netherlands, where same-sex marriages have been legal since 2001, individual congregations decide if they will perform them.\n\nSome Christians support religious and legal recognition of same-sex marriages based on a moral commitment to equality, or a belief that \"human sexual orientations, whether heterosexual, bisexual or homosexual, are a gift from God\", as affirmed by the United Church of Canada's 37th General Council.\n\nEven within the Roman Catholic Church, there can be found a few a groups who support for same-sex marriage. For example, while the Vatican and most of the Roman Catholic hierarchy oppose same sex marriages, there are a few Catholic theologians who support gay marriages.\n\nAccording to Daniel A. Helminiak, the Bible may be interpreted literally or within historical-cultural context. Under a literalist reading, the Bible can be read as condemning homosexuality (and, by extension, gay marriage). Read in cultural context, the Bible \"was not addressing our current questions about sexual ethics and does not condemn gay sex [or gay marriage]s as we understand it today.\" Helminiak argues that Biblical passages said to be against homosexuality (and same-sex marriages) do not actually say anything against gay and lesbian sexual relationships or identity. \"The sin of Sodom was inhospitality, not homosexuality. Jude condemns sex with angels, not sex between two men. Not a single Bible text indisputably refers to lesbian sex. [...] there follows no valid conclusion whatsoever about homosexuality. Biblical figures [...] may well have been involved in homogenital relationships, seen as part of God's plan. And Jesus himself said nothing at all about homosexuality, not even when face to face with a man in a gay relationship.\" Lisa Miller also argues for a move beyond literalism. The Bible was written for a world unlike our own. Monogamy, for example, only became the norm in the Christian world in the last 150 years or so. However, Miller argues that the Bible supports the idea of monogamous relationships, including gay marriage. Robin Kar argues that same-sex marriage is partly the result of certain religious and spiritual developments within Judeo-Christian society, which led to love-based marriages in the West. Hence, there are now religious reasons for Christians to support \"transformative\" marriage for all people and to dispense with the assumption that same-sex marriage reflects encroaching secularism.\n\nAt the 1996 United States Unitarian Universalist General Assembly, delegates voted overwhelmingly that they would perform same-sex marriage ceremonies, and the church has been performing weddings with and without state sanction ever since.\nLikewise Canadian Unitarian Universalist congregations perform same-sex marriages and the Canadian Unitarian Council their national organization supports this work through its Lay Chaplaincy program. Also the British Unitarian church is at the forefront of the campaign for same-sex marriage.\n\nThere are both conservative and liberal views about homosexuality and same-sex marriages in Hinduism, similar to many other religions. A liberal view is presented by Mathematician Shakuntala Devi, in her 1977 book, \"The World of Homosexuals\", in which she interviewed Srinivasa Raghavachariar, head priest of the Srirangam temple. He said that same-sex lovers must have been cross-sex lovers in a former life. The sex may change but the soul retains its attachments, hence the love impels these souls towards one another.\nIn 2002, Ruth Vanita (writer/reporter for \"GALVA - The Gay and Lesbian Vaishnava Association, Inc.\") interviewed a Shaiva priest who performed the marriage of two women; having studied Hindu scriptures, he had concluded, \"Marriage is a union of spirits, and the spirit is not male or female\" (p. 147).\n\nAs Amara Das Wilhelm, a Krishna devotee and founder of GALVA, notes in his book, \"Tritiya-Prakriti: People of the Third Sex\", \"several Gaudiya Vaishnava authorities emphasize that since everyone passes through various forms, genders and species in a series of lives, we should not judge each other by the material body but view everyone equally on a spiritual plane, and be compassionate as God is.\"\n\nAccording to Ruth Vanita, \"Indian newspapers, over the last 25 years, have reported several same-sex weddings and same-sex joint suicides, mostly by Hindu female couples in small towns, unconnected to any gay movement. Several weddings took place by Hindu rites, with some family support, while the suicides resulted from families forcibly separating lovers.\" According to Vanita, the phenomena of increased visibility of same-sex weddings \"...suggest the wide range of Hindu attitudes to homosexuality today. The millennia-long debate in Hindu society, somewhat suppressed in the colonial period, has revived. In 2004, Hinduism Today reporter Rajiv Malik asked several Hindu swamis (teachers) their opinion of same-sex marriage. The swamis expressed a range of opinions, positive and negative. They felt free to differ with each other; this is evidence of the liveliness of the debate, made possible by the fact that Hinduism has no one hierarchy or leader. As Mahant Ram Puri remarked, \"We do not have a rule book in Hinduism. We have a hundred million authorities.\"\n\nIn Albania, Tunisia, and Turkey, there have been discussions about legalizing same-sex marriage.\n\nIn France there was an Islamic same-sex marriage on February 18, 2012. In Paris in November 2012 a room in a Buddhist prayer hall was used by gay Muslims and called a \"gay-friendly mosque\", and a French Islamic website is supporting religious same-sex marriage.\n\nA majority of American Muslims (51 percent) support same-sex marriage as of 2017, according to a survey by the Public Religion Research Institute in their \"2017 American Values Atlas.\"\n\nThe first American Muslim in the United States Congress, Keith Ellison (D-MN) said in 2010 that all discrimination against LGBT people is wrong. He further expressed support for gay marriage stating:\n\n\"I believe that the right to marry someone who you please is so fundamental it should not be subject to popular approval any more than we should vote on whether blacks should be allowed to sit in the front of the bus.\"\n\nMembers of Conservative Judaism and Reform Judaism support marriages for same-sex couples. The Jewish Reconstructionist Federation leaves the choice to individual rabbis.\n\nNative American religions traditionally accepted same-sex marriage. This often came in the form of a Two-Spirit identity in which the Indigenous peoples of the Americas would fulfill one of many mixed gender roles.\n\nNeopagans are generally welcoming of LGBT people, and some strands celebrate gay relationships. Support is highest in Neo-Druidism, Wicca and Asatru. Some Wiccan groups perform handfastings and betrothals.\n\nMany supporters of same sex marriages argue that, by defining the institution of marriage as between one man and one woman, the state automatically tramples upon the constitutional rights to freedom of religion. They argue that just because a majority of religious organizations may believe that gay marriages should not be granted by the state does not make it the state's obligation to observe their opinions on this matter.\n\nThe First Amendment to the United States Constitution, which is part of the United States Bill of Rights, expressly forbids laws being made \"respecting an establishment of religion\" and that prohibit the free exercise of religion. Thus, according to this argument, the state has no authority to define marriage as between one man and woman because there are various religions which hold that gay marriage is morally equivalent to heterosexual marriage.\n\nAmericans United for Separation of Church and State prominently expresses concern that heterosexual-only marriage laws impose a specific religious doctrine as state policy. According to them, \"a marriage amendment in the Constitution [raises] important church-state and religious liberty concerns.\"\n\nThe vast majority of Christian groups have been vocal and politically active in opposing same-sex marriage laws in the United States. Same-sex marriage opponents sometimes claim that extending marriage rights to same-sex couples could undercut the conventional purpose of marriage. Roman Catholic advocates of monogamous heterosexual marriages contend that same-sex relationships cannot be considered marriages because marriage, by definition, necessarily involves the uniting of two members of the opposite sex. Other religious arguments for an opposite-sex definition of marriage hold that same-sex relationships should not be recognized as marriages because same-gender sexual activity is contrary to God's will, is immoral, and subverts God's creative intent for human sexuality. Christian opposition to same-sex marriage also comes from the belief that same-sex marriage normalizes homosexual behavior and would encourage it, instead of encouraging resistance to same-sex attraction.\n\nChristian denominations and groups that have been vocal and or active in their opposition to same-sex marriages include the:\n\nAssemblies of God (66.4 million members),\nChurch of God in Christ (over 8 million members),\n\nthe Conservative Congregational Christian Conference, \nthe Conservative Mennonite Conference, \nthe Convocation of Anglicans in North America, the Hutterite Brethren, the Brethren in Christ,\nthe Mennonite Church USA, \nthe Roman Catholic Church (1.2 Billion members), the Russian Orthodox Church (150 million members), the Seventh-day Adventist Church (17 million members), the Southern Baptist Convention (15.7 million members), and the United Pentecostal Church International (2 million members). In 2009, a group of Christian leaders from various denominations issued the , an \"influential statement that united evangelicals and Catholic leaders in fighting abortion and gay marriage\"; as of November 2010, the Declaration had been signed by over 475,000 individuals. On August 29, 2017, the Council on Biblical Manhood and Womanhood released a manifesto on human sexuality known as the \"Nashville Statement\". The statement was signed by 150 evangelical leaders, and includes 14 points of belief. Among other things, it states, \"We deny that God has designed marriage to be a homosexual, polygamous, or polyamorous relationship.\"\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church argues from a theological perspective against recognizing same-sex unions. According to Catholic moral doctrine, acts of sexual intimacy are only proper between a man and a woman within wedlock. Secular government recognition of any other union within the definition of \"marriage\" would therefore reflect a belief in the moral equivalence of acts between a husband and wife and acts between two men or two women; this belief is contrary to Catholic doctrinal teaching.\n\nCatholic opponents also argue that inclusion of same-sex unions within the definition of marriage would also evidence rejection of the idea that, in general, it is best that children be raised by their biological mother and father, and that it is the community's interest in ensuring the well-being of children is the sole basis for the government's licensee and involvement in marriage.\n\nPope John Paul II, then head of the Roman Catholic church, criticized same-sex marriage when it was introduced in the Netherlands in 2001. His successor Pope Benedict XVI maintained opposition to the institution, considering it amongst \"the most insidious and dangerous threats to the common good today\".\n\nWithin the Christian tradition, religious objections to same-sex marriages are often based upon the Bible.\n\nSome religious arguments against same-sex marriage are based upon Old Testament biblical passages such as Genesis 19:4-11, Leviticus 18:22, and Leviticus 20:13, while others are based upon New Testament biblical passages such as Romans 1, I Corinthians 6:8-10, and Jude 1:7. Conservative Christians note that the book of Leviticus contains a prohibition against male-male sexuality. While the Biblical passages mentioned above do not define the institution of marriage, Genesis 2:22-24 reads as follows: \"Then the Lord God made a woman from the rib he had taken out of the man, and he brought her to the man. The man said, 'This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called 'woman,' for she was taken out of man.' For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and they will become one flesh.\" This passage is quoted by Jesus in the New Testament Gospel of Matthew.\n\nAccording to Reverend Rick Warren, a pastor of the conservative Evangelical Christian Saddleback megachurch, homosexuals are people who \"think they are smarter than God\" and who choose \"to disobey God's sexual instructions.\" From Warren’s point of view, marriage is an ordinance from God that unites a man and a woman. James Dobson, in \"Marriage Under Fire\" and elsewhere, argues that legalization for or passive tolerance of same-sex marriages would widen the definition of families.\n\nThe ex-gay movement takes the view that I Corinthians 6:9-11 offers Christian believers freedom from the sin of homosexual behavior. Evangelical author and counselor Joe Dallas notes that the Biblical passages relating to homosexual behavior uniformly prohibit that behavior.\n\nThe Orthodox Church in America is also opposed to same-sex marriage, as is the Unification Church.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (15 million members) believes that marriage between a man and a woman is ordained of God and that children are entitled to be raised by a mother and a father who honor their marital vows with complete fidelity. They believe marriage is not primarily a contract between individuals to ratify their affections and provide for mutual obligations, but is an important part of rearing children. They teach that same-sex marriage undermines the purpose of marriage.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses (8.2 million members) believes God condemns sexual activity that is not between a husband and his wife. They teach that while the bible condemns homosexual acts, it does not condone hatred of homosexuals or homophobia.\n\nJudaism, like Christianity, reflects differing views between conservative and liberal adherents. Orthodox Judaism maintains the traditional Jewish bans on both sexual acts and marriage amongst members of the same sex. The Orthodox Union in the United States supported a federal Constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriages. However, it is important to note that recent research by Chana Etengoff & Colette Daiute suggest that positive reconciliations between sexual minority individuals and Orthodox Jewish family members is possible (a process referred to as theistic mediation), both with and without clinical support.\n\nThai Theravada Buddhists (over 150 million members), being the more conservative wing of Buddhism are less supportive of gay rights and marriages. Human rights issues have received poor attention in Theravada countries, as the culture is rooted in the belief in the Law of Karma, which is more popular among Thai Buddhists than philosophical and advanced scriptural studies in Buddhism. Many monasteries and monks advocate their lay followers to see the world through the lens of karma, i.e., every person is born to pay back their sins. According to their explanations, all homosexuals and sexual deviants were once offenders of the Third Precept (prohibiting sexual misconduct) - at least in their past lives, and they must pay off their past sins in their present life. Therefore, they deserve all that society gives to them. This belief system creates strong conservative values in Theravada Buddhist culture. For these reasons, it is unlikely that Buddhists will easily approve a law to allow gay marriage. Gay and lesbian activists in Thailand will probably not be as successful as their fellows in European countries or Canada. It is important to note, however, that Theravada Buddhists outside of the South-East Asian Area, are generally more supportive, or neutral, to same-sex marriage, and LGBT rights as a whole.\n\nOne source of controversy is how same-sex marriage affects freedom of religion. There is concern that religious communities might not be legally able to decide what type of marriages to solemnize. Some same-sex married couples have challenged religious organizations that exclude them from access to public facilities maintained by those organizations, such as schools, health care centers, social service agencies, summer camps, homeless shelters, nursing homes, orphanages, retreat houses, community centers, and athletic programs. Opponents of same-sex marriage have expressed concerns that this limits their religious freedoms. For example, conservatives worry that a Christian college would risk its tax-exempt status by refusing to admit a legally married gay couple to married-student housing. Some legal analysts suggest that failure to reflect gay rights within their organizations may cost some religious groups their tax-exempt status. In addition, religious opponents of same-sex marriage express concern about several specific instances in which they contend that religious freedoms have been abridged due to legal recognition of same-sex unions, including (a) an incident in Canada (which is subject to a different set of laws concerning same-sex marriage than the United States), in which the Knights of Columbus were sued for declining to allow a same-sex wedding reception on their property; (b) removal of real property tax exemption from a New Jersey Christian organization that did not allow a civil union ceremony to be performed on their property; (c) requirements that judges and justices of the peace perform same-sex wedding ceremonies; and (d) the forced closing of Catholic adoption agencies which refused to place children in the homes of married same-sex partners.\n\nThere is also a concern that religious people might be marginalized for their beliefs about marriage. Opponents point to the way Carrie Prejean was treated during the Miss USA 2009 controversy. There are also concerns about violence and intimidation against religious people. After a vote to make same-sex marriage illegal in California, same-sex marriage supporters published names of donors to the bill and classified them based on religion and many religious symbols were targeted. Elder Dallin H. Oaks of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, likened the attacks against religious people to voter intimidation against black people during the American civil rights movement. Some governments have made special provisions for religious protections within the texts of same-sex marriage laws.\n\nAmericans United for Separation of Church and State argue that by defining marriage as an opposite-sex institution, the state infringes upon the constitutional right to freedom of religion. In this view, religious groups that do wish to celebrate same-sex marriages are discriminated against when government policies do not permit their religious groups to celebrate marriages as they see fit.\n"}
{"id": "21352864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21352864", "title": "Russell T. McCutcheon", "text": "Russell T. McCutcheon\n\nRussell T. McCutcheon is a Canadian scholar with a Ph.D. in religious studies from the University of Toronto in 1995. He is a professor and was department chair from 2001-2009 at the University of Alabama. He was one of the editors of the quarterly periodical \"Method & Theory in the Study of Religion 1997-2001\". In 2005, McCutcheon was elected President of the Council of Societies for the Study of Religion (CSSR), headquartered at Rice University. He is the founder and series editor for the anthology series, \"Critical Categories in the Study of Religion\".\n\nHe has been noted for a controversy concerning methodology in the field of Religious Studies. This controversy centered on a rather polemical exchange between McCutcheon and Dr. Robert A. Orsi, who held a teaching position at Harvard University and Harvard Divinity School, with Orsi referring to McCutcheon's book, \"The Discipline of Religion\", as \"chilling\". Orsi also made the comment, \"the assumption appears to be that the scholar of religion by virtue of his or her normative epistemology, theoretical acuity, and political knowingness, has the authority and the right to make the lives of others the objects of his or her scrutiny. He or she theorizes them.\" McCutcheon responded with a paper included in the Journal of the American Academy of Religion entitled, \"It's a Lie. There's No Truth in It! It's a Sin!: On the Limits of the Humanistic Study of Religion and the Costs of Saving Others from Themselves.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "100822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100822", "title": "Shorthand", "text": "Shorthand\n\nShorthand is an abbreviated symbolic writing method that increases speed and brevity of writing as compared to longhand, a more common method of writing a language. The process of writing in shorthand is called stenography, from the Greek \"stenos\" (narrow) and \"graphein\" (to write). It has also been called brachygraphy, from Greek \"brachys\" (short) and tachygraphy, from Greek \"tachys\" (swift, speedy), depending on whether compression or speed of writing is the goal.\n\nMany forms of shorthand exist. A typical shorthand system provides symbols or abbreviations for words and common phrases, which can allow someone well-trained in the system to write as quickly as people speak. Abbreviation methods are alphabet-based and use different abbreviating approaches. Several autocomplete programs, standalone or integrated in text editors, based on word lists, also include a shorthand function for frequently used phrases. Many journalists use shorthand writing to quickly take notes at press conferences or other similar scenarios.\n\nShorthand was used more widely in the past, before the invention of recording and dictation machines. Shorthand was considered an essential part of secretarial training and police work, as well as useful for journalists. Although the primary use of shorthand has been to record oral dictation or discourse, some systems are used for compact expression. For example, healthcare professionals may use shorthand notes in medical charts and correspondence. Shorthand notes are typically temporary, intended either for immediate use or for later typing, data entry, or (mainly historically) transcription to longhand, although longer term uses do exist, such as encipherment: diaries (like that of the famous Samuel Pepys) are a common example.\n\nThe earliest known indication of shorthand systems is from the Parthenon in Ancient Greece, where a mid-4th century BC marble slab was found. This shows a writing system primarily based on vowels, using certain modifications to indicate consonants. Hellenistic tachygraphy is reported from the 2nd century BC onwards, though there are indications that it might be older. The oldest datable reference is a contract from Middle Egypt, stating that Oxyrhynchos gives the \"semeiographer\" Apollonios for two years to be taught shorthand writing. Hellenistic tachygraphy consisted of word stem signs and word ending signs. Over time, many syllabic signs were developed.\n\nIn Ancient Rome, Marcus Tullius Tiro (103–4 BC), a slave and later a freedman of Cicero, developed the Tironian notes so that he could write down Cicero's speeches. Plutarch (c46-c120 AD) in his \"Life of Cato the Younger\" (95-46 BC) records that Cicero, during a trial of some insurrectionists in the senate, employed several expert rapid writers, whom he had taught to make figures comprising numerous words in a few short strokes, to preserve Cato's speech on this occasion. The Tironian notes consisted of Latin word stem abbreviations (\"notae\") and of word ending abbreviations (\"titulae\"). The original Tironian notes consisted of about 4000 signs, but new signs were introduced, so that their number might increase to as many as 13,000. In order to have a less complex writing system, a syllabic shorthand script was sometimes used. After the decline of the Roman Empire, the Tironian notes were no longer used to transcribe speeches, though they were still known and taught, particularly during the Carolingian Renaissance. After the 11th century, however, they were mostly forgotten.\n\nWhen many monastery libraries were secularized in the course of the 16th-century Protestant Reformation, long-forgotten manuscripts of Tironian notes were rediscovered.\n\nIn imperial China, clerks used an abbreviated, highly cursive form of Chinese characters to record court proceedings and criminal confessions. These records were used to create more formal transcripts. One cornerstone of imperial court proceedings was that all confessions had to be acknowledged by the accused's signature, personal seal, or thumbprint, requiring fast writing. Versions of this technique survived in clerical professions into the modern day, and influenced by Western shorthand methods, some new methods were invented.\n\nAn interest in shorthand or \"short-writing\" developed towards the end of the 16th century in England. In 1588 Timothy Bright published his \"Characterie; An Arte of Shorte, Swifte and Secrete Writing by Character\" which introduced a system with 500 arbitrary symbols each representing one word. Bright's book was followed by a number of others, including Peter Bales' \" The Writing Schoolemaster\" in 1590, John Willis's \"Art of Stenography\" in 1602, Edmond Willis's \"An abbreviation of writing by character\" in 1618, and Thomas Shelton's \"Short Writing\" in 1626 (later re-issued as \"Tachygraphy\").\n\nShelton's system became very popular and is well known because it was used by Samuel Pepys for his diary and for many of his official papers, such as his letter copy books. It was also used by Sir Isaac Newton in some of his notebooks. Shelton borrowed heavily from his predecessors, especially Edmond Willis. Each consonant was represented by an arbitrary but simple symbol, while the five vowels were represented by the relative positions of the surrounding consonants. Thus the symbol for B with symbol for T drawn directly above it represented \"bat\", while B with T below it meant \"but\"; top-right represented \"e\", middle-right \"i\", and lower-right \"o\". A vowel at the end of a word was represented by a dot in the appropriate position, while there were additional symbols for initial vowels. This basic system was supplemented by further symbols representing common prefixes and suffixes.\n\nOne drawback of Shelton's system was that there was no way to distinguish long and short vowels or diphthongs; so the b-a-t sequence could mean \"bat\", or \"bait\", or \"bate\", while b-o-t might mean \"boot\", or \"bought\", or \"boat\". The reader needed to use the context to work out which alternative was meant. The main advantage of the system was that it was easy to learn and to use. It was popular, and under the two titles of \"Short Writing\" and \"Tachygraphy\", Shelton's book ran to more than 20 editions between 1626 and 1710.\n\nShelton's chief rivals were Theophilus Metcalfe's \"Stenography\" or \"Short Writing\" (1633) which was in its \"55th edition\" by 1721, and Jeremiah Rich's system of 1654, which was published under various titles including \"The penns dexterity compleated\" (1669). Another notable English shorthand system creator of the 17th century was William Mason (fl. 1672–1709) who published \"Arts Advancement\" in 1682.\n\nModern-looking geometric shorthand was introduced with John Byrom's \"New Universal Shorthand\" of 1720. Samuel Taylor published a similar system in 1786, the first English shorthand system to be used all over the English-speaking world. Thomas Gurney published \"Brachygraphy\" in the mid-18th century. In 1834 in Germany, Franz Xaver Gabelsberger published his Gabelsberger shorthand. Gabelsberger based his shorthand on the shapes used in German cursive handwriting rather than on the geometrical shapes that were common in the English stenographic tradition.\nTaylor's system was superseded by Pitman shorthand, first introduced in 1837 by English teacher Sir Isaac Pitman, and improved many times since. Pitman's system has been used all over the English-speaking world and has been adapted to many other languages, including Latin. Pitman's system uses a phonemic orthography. For this reason, it is sometimes known as \"phonography\", meaning \"sound writing\" in Greek. One of the reasons this system allows fast transcription is that vowel sounds are optional when only consonants are needed to determine a word. The availability of a full range of vowel symbols, however, makes complete accuracy possible. Isaac's brother Benn Pitman, who lived in Cincinnati, Ohio, was responsible for introducing the method to America. The record for fast writing with Pitman shorthand is 350 wpm during a two-minute test by Nathan Behrin in 1922.\n\nNathan Behrin wrote on Pitman shorthand in 1914:\nThe seeker after high speed should devote himself to obtaining a thorough mastery of the principles of his system of shorthand. Not until the ability to write shorthand without mental hesitation has been acquired, should speed practice begin.\n\nA student observing the note-taking of an experienced stenographer will be struck with admiration at the smoothness of the writing and the perfect regularity of the outlines. An excellent method of practice for the like facility is in the copying of a selection sentence by sentence until the whole is memorized, and then writing it over and over again.\n\nAll notes taken at any speed should strictly be compared with the printed matter. It will then be found that many words are taken for others because of the forms they assume when written under pressure. Most of these can be avoided by careful attention to the writing. Experience alone will authorize any deviation from the text-book forms.\n\nPhrasing should be indulged in sparingly on unfamiliar matter. But on familiar matter the student should always be alert for opportunities of saving both time and effort by employing the principles of intersection, elimination of consonants and the joining of words of frequent occurrence.\n\nNothing less than absolute accuracy should satisfy the student. Conflicting outlines should be carefully distinguished. Where words may be distinguished either by the insertion of vowels or the changing of one of the outlines, the latter should always be the method employed; vowels should freely be inserted whenever possible. The sense of the matter should be carefully preserved by the punctuation of the notes, indicating the full stop and leaving spaces in the notes between phrases.\n\nThe best matter of the for the student beginning practice for speed is to be found in the dictation books compiled by the publishers of the system. At first, the dictation should be slow to permit the making of careful outlines. Gradually the speed should be increased until the student is obliged to exert himself to keep pace with the reader; and occasionally short bursts of speed should be attempted as tests of the writer's progress.\n\nThe student ambitious to succeed will endeavor to familiarize himself with all matters pertaining to stenography. By reading the shorthand magazines he will keep himself in touch with the latest developments in the art. Facility in reading shorthand will also be acquired by reading the shorthand plates in these magazines. For comparison and suggestion, he will study the facsimile notes of practical stenographers. He will neglect no opportunity to improve himself in the use of his art. And finally he will join a shorthand society where he will come in contact with other stenographers who are striving toward the same goal as himself.\nDespite being 175 years old Pitman's shorthand is still relevant today and used by thousands of journalists, executive PAs and secretaries across the world. In Europe, particularly in Great Britain there are thousands of educational institutions teaching Pitman's shorthand.\nIn the United States and some other parts of the world it has been largely superseded by Gregg shorthand, which was first published in 1888 by John Robert Gregg. This system was influenced by the handwriting shapes that Gabelsberger had introduced. Gregg's shorthand, like Pitman's, is phonetic, but has the simplicity of being \"light-line.\" Pitman's system uses thick and thin strokes to distinguish related sounds, while Gregg's uses only thin strokes and makes some of the same distinctions by the length of the stroke. In fact, Gregg claimed joint authorship in another shorthand system published in pamphlet form by one Thomas Stratford Malone; Malone, however, claimed sole authorship and a legal battle ensued. The two systems use very similar, if not identical, symbols; however, these symbols are used to represent different sounds. For instance, on page 10 of the manual is the word d i m 'dim'; however, in the Gregg system the spelling would actually mean n u k or 'nook'.\n\nThere are several other pen shorthands in use (Ishimura, Iwamura, Kumassaki, Kotani, and Nissokuken), leading to a total of nine pen shorthands in use. In addition, there is the Yamane pen shorthand (of unknown importance) and three machine shorthands systems (Speed Waapuro, Caver and Hayatokun or sokutaipu.) The machine shorthands have gained some ascendancy over the pen shorthands.\n\nJapanese shorthand systems ('sokki' shorthand or 'sokkidou' stenography) commonly use a syllabic approach, much like the common writing system for Japanese (which has actually two syllabaries in everyday use). There are several semi-cursive systems. Most follow a left-to-right, top-to-bottom writing direction. Several systems incorporate a loop into many of the strokes, giving the appearance of Gregg, Graham, or Cross's Eclectic shorthand without actually functioning like them. The Kotani (aka Same-Vowel-Same-Direction or SVSD or V-type) system's strokes frequently cross over each other and in so doing form loops.\n\nJapanese also has its own variously cursive form of writing kanji characters, the most extremely simplified of which is known as Sōsho.\n\nThe two Japanese syllabaries are themselves adapted from the Chinese characters (both of the syllabaries, katakana and hiragana, are in everyday use alongside the Chinese characters known as kanji; the kanji, being developed in parallel to the Chinese characters, have their own idiosyncrasies, but Chinese and Japanese ideograms are largely comprehensible, even if their use in the languages are not the same.)\n\nPrior to the Meiji era, Japanese did not have its own shorthand (the kanji did have their own abbreviated forms borrowed alongside them from China). Takusari Kooki was the first to give classes in a new Western-style non-ideographic shorthand of his own design, emphasis being on the non-ideographic and new. This was the first shorthand system adapted to writing phonetic Japanese, all other systems prior being based on the idea of whole or partial semantic ideographic writing like that used in the Chinese characters, and the phonetic approach being mostly peripheral to writing in general (even today, Japanese writing uses the syllabaries to pronounce or spell out words, or to indicate grammatical words. Furigana are written alongside kanji, or Chinese characters, to indicate their pronunciation especially in juvenile publications. Furigana are usually written using the hiragana syllabary; foreign words may not have a kanji form and are spelled out using katakana.)\n\nThe new sokki were used to transliterate popular vernacular story-telling theater (yose) of the day. This led to a thriving industry of sokkibon (shorthand books). The ready availability of the stories in book form, and higher rates of literacy (which the very industry of sokkibon may have helped create, due to these being oral classics that were already known to most people) may also have helped kill the yose theater, as people no longer needed to see the stories performed in person to enjoy them. Sokkibon also allowed a whole host of what had previously been mostly oral rhetorical and narrative techniques into writing, such as imitation of dialect in conversations (which can be found back in older gensaku literature; but gensaku literature used conventional written language in-between conversations, however.)\n\nShorthands that use simplified letterforms are sometimes termed \"stenographic\" shorthands, contrasting with alphabetic shorthands, below. Stenographic shorthands can be further differentiated by the target letter forms as geometric, script, and semi-script or elliptical.\n\n\"Geometric\" shorthands are based on circles, parts of circles, and straight lines placed strictly horizontally, vertically or diagonally. The first modern shorthand systems were geometric. Examples include Pitman Shorthand, Boyd's Syllabic Shorthand, Samuel Taylor's Universal Stenography, the French Prévost-Delaunay, and the Duployé system, adapted to write the Kamloops Wawa (used for Chinook Jargon) writing system.\n\n\"Script\" shorthands are based on the motions of ordinary handwriting. The first system of this type was published under the title \"Cadmus Britanicus\" by Simon Bordley, in 1787. However, the first practical system was the German Gabelsberger shorthand of 1834. This class of system is now common in all more recent German shorthand systems, as well as in Austria, Italy, Scandinavia, the Netherlands, Russia, other Eastern European countries, and elsewhere.\n\n\"Script-geometric\", or \"semi-script\", shorthands are based on the ellipse. Semi-script can be considered a compromise between the \"geometric\" systems and the \"script\" systems. The first such system was that of George Carl Märes in 1885. However, the most successful system of this type was Gregg shorthand, introduced by John Robert Gregg in 1888. Gregg had studied not only the \"geometric\" English systems, but also the German Stolze stenography, a \"script\" shorthand. Other examples include Teeline Shorthand and Thomas Natural Shorthand.\n\nThe semi-script philosophy gained popularity in Italy in the first half of the 20th century with three different systems created by , , and .\n\nSome shorthand systems attempted to ease learning by using characters from the Latin alphabet. Such non-stenographic systems have often been described as alphabetic, and purists might claim that such systems are not 'true' shorthand. However, these alphabetic systems do have value for students who cannot dedicate the years necessary to master a stenographic shorthand. Alphabetic shorthands cannot be written at the speeds theoretically possible with symbol systems—200 words per minute or more—but require only a fraction of the time to acquire a useful speed of between 60 and 100 words per minute.\n\nNon-stenographic systems often supplement alphabetic characters by using punctuation marks as additional characters, giving special significance to capitalised letters, and sometimes using additional non-alphabetic symbols. Examples of such systems include Stenoscript, Speedwriting and Forkner shorthand. However, there are some pure alphabetic systems, including Personal Shorthand, SuperWrite, Easy Script Speed Writing, and Keyscript Shorthand which limit their symbols to \"a priori\" alphabetic characters. These have the added advantage that they can also be typed—for instance, onto a computer, PDA, or cellphone. Early editions of Speedwriting were also adapted so that they could be written on a typewriter, and therefore would possess the same advantage.\n\nShorthand systems can also be classified according to the way that vowels are represented.\n\nTraditional shorthand systems are written on paper with a stenographic pencil or a stenographic pen. Some consider that strictly speaking only handwritten systems can be called shorthand.\n\nMachine shorthand is also a common term for writing produced by a stenotype, a specialized keyboard. These are often used for court room transcripts and in live subtitling. However, there are other shorthand machines used worldwide, including: Velotype; Palantype in the UK; Grandjean Stenotype, used extensively in France and French-speaking countries; Michela Stenotype, used extensively in Italy; and Stenokey, used in Bulgaria and elsewhere.\n\nOne of the most widely used forms of shorthand is still the Pitman shorthand method described above, which has been adapted for 15 languages. Although Pitman's method was extremely popular at first and is still commonly used, especially in the UK, its popularity has been superseded, especially in the U.S., by Gregg shorthand, developed by John Robert Gregg in 1888.\n\nIn the UK, the spelling-based (rather than phonetic) Teeline shorthand is now more commonly taught and used than Pitman, and Teeline is the recommended system of the National Council for the Training of Journalists with an overall speed of 100 words per minute necessary for certification. Other less commonly used systems in the UK are Pitman 2000, PitmanScript, Speedwriting, and Gregg. Teeline is also the most common shorthand method taught to New Zealand journalists, whose certification typically requires a shorthand speed of at least 80 words per minute.\n\nIn Nigeria, Shorthand is still taught in higher institutions of learning especially for students studying Office Technology Management and Business Education.\n\n\n\n\n125386\n"}
{"id": "142839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142839", "title": "Stone tool", "text": "Stone tool\n\nA stone tool is, in the most general sense, any tool made either partially or entirely out of stone. Although stone tool-dependent societies and cultures still exist today, most stone tools are associated with prehistoric, particularly Stone Age cultures that have become extinct. Archaeologists often study such prehistoric societies, and refer to the study of stone tools as lithic analysis. Ethnoarchaeology has been a valuable research field in order to further the understanding and cultural implications of stone tool use and manufacture.\n\nStone has been used to make a wide variety of different tools throughout history, including arrow heads, spearpoints and querns. Stone tools may be made of either ground stone or chipped stone, and a person who creates tools out of the latter is known as a flintknapper.\nChipped stone tools are made from cryptocrystalline materials such as chert or flint, radiolarite, chalcedony, obsidian, basalt, and quartzite via a process known as lithic reduction. One simple form of reduction is to strike stone flakes from a nucleus (core) of material using a hammerstone or similar hard hammer fabricator. If the goal of the reduction strategy is to produce flakes, the remnant lithic core may be discarded once it has become too small to use. In some strategies, however, a flintknapper reduces the core to a rough unifacial or bifacial preform, which is further reduced using soft hammer flaking techniques or by pressure flaking the edges.\n\nMore complex forms of reduction include the production of highly standardized blades, which can then be fashioned into a variety of tools such as scrapers, knives, sickles and microliths. In general terms, chipped stone tools are nearly ubiquitous in all pre-metal-using societies because they are easily manufactured, the tool stone is usually plentiful, and they are easy to transport and sharpen.\n\nArchaeologists classify stone tools into industries (also known as complexes or technocomplexes) that share distinctive technological or morphological characteristics.\n\nIn 1969 in the 2nd edition of \"World Prehistory\", Grahame Clark proposed an evolutionary progression of flint-knapping in which the \"dominant lithic technologies\" occurred in a fixed sequence from Mode 1 through Mode 5. He assigned to them relative dates: Modes 1 and 2 to the Lower Palaeolithic, 3 to the Middle Palaeolithic, 4 to the Advanced and 5 to the Mesolithic. They were not to be conceived, however, as either universal—that is, they did not account for all lithic technology; or as synchronous—they were not in effect in different regions simultaneously. Mode 1, for example, was in use in Europe long after it had been replaced by Mode 2 in Africa.\n\nClark's scheme was adopted enthusiastically by the archaeological community. One of its advantages was the simplicity of terminology; for example, the Mode 1 / Mode 2 Transition. The transitions are currently of greatest interest. Consequently, in the literature the stone tools used in the period of the Palaeolithic are divided into four \"modes\", each of which designate a different form of complexity, and which in most cases followed a rough chronological order.\n\nStone tools found from 2011 to 2014 at Lake Turkana in Kenya, are dated to be 3.3 million years old, and predate the genus \"Homo\" by half million years. The oldest known \"Homo\" fossil is 2.8 million years old compared to the 3.3 million year old stone tools. The stone tools may have been made by \"Australopithecus afarensis\" —also called \"Kenyanthropus platyops\"— (a 3.2 to 3.5-million-year-old Pliocene hominin fossil discovered in 1999) the species whose best fossil example is Lucy, which inhabited East Africa at the same time as the date of the oldest stone tools. Dating of the tools was by dating volcanic ash layers in which the tools were found and dating the magnetic signature (pointing north or south due to reversal of the magnetic poles) of the rock at the site.\n\nGrooved, cut and fractured animal bone fossils, made by using stone tools, were found in Dikika, Ethiopia near (200 yards) the remains of Selam, a young \"Australopithecus afarensis\" girl who lived about 3.3 million years ago.\n\nThe earliest stone tools in the life span of the genus \"Homo\" are Mode 1 tools, and come from what has been termed the Oldowan Industry, named after the type of site (many sites, actually) found in Olduvai Gorge, Tanzania, where they were discovered in large quantities. Oldowan tools were characterised by their simple construction, predominantly using core forms. These cores were river pebbles, or rocks similar to them, that had been struck by a spherical hammerstone to cause conchoidal fractures removing flakes from one surface, creating an edge and often a sharp tip. The blunt end is the proximal surface; the sharp, the distal. Oldowan is a percussion technology. Grasping the proximal surface, the hominid brought the distal surface down hard on an object he wished to detach or shatter, such as a bone or tuber.\n\nThe earliest known Oldowan tools yet found date from 2.6 million years ago, during the Lower Palaeolithic period, and have been uncovered at Gona in Ethiopia. After this date, the Oldowan Industry subsequently spread throughout much of Africa, although archaeologists are currently unsure which Hominan species first developed them, with some speculating that it was \"Australopithecus garhi\", and others believing that it was in fact \"Homo habilis\". \"Homo habilis\" was the hominin who used the tools for most of the Oldowan in Africa, but at about 1.9-1.8 million years ago Homo erectus inherited them. The Industry flourished in southern and eastern Africa between 2.6 and 1.7 million years ago, but was also spread out of Africa and into Eurasia by travelling bands of \"H. erectus\", who took it as far east as Java by 1.8 million years ago and Northern China by 1.6 million years ago.\n\nEventually, more complex, Mode 2 tools began to be developed through the Acheulean Industry, named after the site of Saint-Acheul in France. The Acheulean was characterised not by the core, but by the biface, the most notable form of which was the hand axe. The Acheulean first appears in the archaeological record as early as 1.7 million years ago in the West Turkana area of Kenya and contemporaneously in southern Africa.\n\nThe Leakeys, excavators at Olduvai, defined a \"Developed Oldowan\" Period in which they believed they saw evidence of an overlap in Oldowan and Acheulean. In their species-specific view of the two industries, Oldowan equated to \"H. habilis\" and Acheulean to \"H. erectus\". Developed Oldowan was assigned to \"habilis\" and Acheulean to \"erectus\". Subsequent dates on \"H. erectus\" pushed the fossils back to well before Acheulean tools; that is, \"H. erectus\" must have initially used Mode 1. There was no reason to think, therefore, that Developed Oldowan had to be \"habilis\"; it could have been \"erectus\". Opponents of the view divide Developed Oldowan between Oldowan and Acheulean. There is no question, however, that \"habilis\" and \"erectus\" coexisted, as \"habilis\" fossils are found as late as 1.4 million years ago. Meanwhile, African \"H. erectus\" developed Mode 2. In any case a wave of Mode 2 then spread across Eurasia, resulting in use of both there. \"H. erectus\" may not have been the only hominin to leave Africa; European fossils are sometimes associated with \"Homo ergaster\", a contemporary of \"H. erectus\" in Africa.\n\nIn contrast to an Oldowan tool, which is the result of a fortuitous and probably ex tempore operation to obtain one sharp edge on a stone, an Acheulean tool is a planned result of a manufacturing process. The manufacturer begins with a blank, either a larger stone or a slab knocked off a larger rock. From this blank he or she removes large flakes, to be used as cores. Standing a core on edge on an anvil stone, he or she hits the exposed edge with centripetal blows of a hard hammer to roughly shape the implement. Then the piece must be worked over again, or retouched, with a soft hammer of wood or bone to produce a tool finely chipped all over consisting of two convex surfaces intersecting in a sharp edge. Such a tool is used for slicing; concussion would destroy the edge and cut the hand.\n\nSome Mode 2 tools are disk-shaped, others ovoid, others leaf-shaped and pointed, and others elongated and pointed at the distal end, with a blunt surface at the proximal end, obviously used for drilling. Mode 2 tools are used for butchering; not being composite (having no haft) they are not very appropriate killing instruments. The killing must have been done some other way. Mode 2 tools are larger than Oldowan. The blank was ported to serve as an ongoing source of flakes until it was finally retouched as a finished tool itself. Edges were often sharpened by further retouching.\n\nEventually, the Acheulean in Europe was replaced by a lithic technology known as the Mousterian Industry, which was named after the site of Le Moustier in France, where examples were first uncovered in the 1860s. Evolving from the Acheulean, it adopted the Levallois technique to produce smaller and sharper knife-like tools as well as scrapers. Also known as the \"prepared core technique,\" flakes are struck from worked cores and then subsequently retouched. The Mousterian Industry was developed and used primarily by the Neanderthals, a native European and Middle Eastern hominin species, but a broadly similar industry is contemporaneously widespread in Africa. \n\nThe widespread use of long blades (rather than flakes) of the Upper Palaeolithic Mode 4 industries appeared during the Upper Palaeolithic between 50,000 and 10,000 years ago, although blades were still produced in small quantities much earlier by Neanderthals The Aurignacian culture seems to have been the first to rely largely on blades The use of blades exponentially increases the efficiency of core usage compared to the Levallois flake technique, which had a similar advantage over Acheulean technology which was worked from cores.\n\nMode 5 stone tools involve the production of microliths, which were used in composite tools, mainly fastened to a shaft. Examples include the Magdalenian culture. Such a technology makes much more efficient use of available materials like flint, although required greater skill in manufacturing the small flakes. Mounting sharp flint edges in a wood or bone handle is the key innovation in microliths, essentially because the handle gives the user protection against the flint and also improves leverage of the device.\n\nIn prehistoric Japan, ground stone tools appear during the Japanese Paleolithic period, that lasted from around 40,000 BC to 14,000 BC. Elsewhere, ground stone tools became important during the Neolithic period beginning about 10,000 BC. These ground or polished implements are manufactured from larger-grained materials such as basalt, jade and jadeite, greenstone and some forms of rhyolite which are not suitable for flaking. The greenstone industry was important in the English Lake District, and is known as the Langdale axe industry. Ground stone implements included adzes, celts, and axes, which were manufactured using a labour-intensive, time-consuming method of repeated grinding against an abrasive stone, often using water as a lubricant. Because of their coarse surfaces, some ground stone tools were used for grinding plant foods and were polished not just by intentional shaping, but also by use. Manos are hand stones used in conjunction with metates for grinding corn or grain. Polishing increased the intrinsic mechanical strength of the axe. Polished stone axes were important for the widespread clearance of woods and forest during the Neolithic period, when crop and livestock farming developed on a large scale. They are distributed very widely and were traded over great distances since the best rock types were often very local. They also became venerated objects, and were frequently buried in long barrows or round barrows with their former owners.\n\nDuring the Neolithic period, large axes were made from flint nodules by chipping a rough shape, a so-called \"rough-out\". Such products were traded across a wide area. The rough-outs were then polished to give the surface a fine finish to create the axe head. Polishing not only increased the final strength of the product but also meant that the head could penetrate wood more easily.\n\nThere were many sources of supply, including Grimes Graves in Suffolk, Cissbury in Sussex and Spiennes near Mons in Belgium to mention but a few. In Britain, there were numerous small quarries in downland areas where flint was removed for local use, for example.\n\nMany other rocks were used to make axes from stones, including the Langdale axe industry as well as numerous other sites such as Penmaenmawr and Tievebulliagh in Co Antrim, Ulster. In Langdale, there many outcrops of the greenstone were exploited, and knapped where the stone was extracted. The sites exhibit piles of waste flakes, as well as rejected rough-outs. Polishing improved the mechanical strength of the tools, so increasing their life and effectiveness. Many other tools were developed using the same techniques. Such products were traded across the country and abroad.\n\nThe invention of the flintlock gun mechanism in the sixteenth century produced a demand for specially shaped gunflints. The gunflint industry survived until the middle of the twentieth century in some places, including in the English town of Brandon.\n\nFor specialist purposes glass knives are still made and used today, particularly for cutting thin sections for electron microscopy in a technique known as microtomy. Freshly cut blades are always used since the sharpness of the edge is very great. These knives are made from high-quality manufactured glass, however, not from natural raw materials such as chert or obsidian. Surgical knives made from obsidian are still used in some delicate surgeries.\n\nIn archaeology, a tool stone is a type of stone that is used to manufacture stone tools. Alternatively, the term can be used to refer to stones used as the raw material for tools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2254221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2254221", "title": "Struve Geodetic Arc", "text": "Struve Geodetic Arc\n\nThe Struve Geodetic Arc is a chain of survey triangulations stretching from Hammerfest in Norway to the Black Sea, through ten countries and over 2,820 km, which yielded the first accurate measurement of a meridian.\n\nThe chain was established and used by the German-born Russian scientist Friedrich Georg Wilhelm von Struve in the years 1816 to 1855 to establish the exact size and shape of the earth. At that time, the chain passed merely through two countries: Union of Sweden-Norway and the Russian Empire. The Arc's first point is located in Tartu Observatory in Estonia, where Struve conducted much of his research.\n\nIn 2005, the chain was inscribed on the World Heritage List as a memorable ensemble of the chain made up of 34 commemorative plaques or built obelisks out of the original 265 main station points which are marked by drilled holes in rock, iron crosses, cairns, others.\n\nMeasurement of the triangulation chain comprises 258 main triangles and 265 geodetic vertices. The northernmost point is located near Hammerfest in Norway and the southernmost point near the Black Sea in Ukraine. This inscription is located in ten countries, the most of any UNESCO World Heritage.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n19 topographic points of the Struve Geodetic Arc are located in Belarus.\n\n\n\nAt publication in 1858, the flattening of the earth was estimated at one part in 294.26. The earth's equatorial radius was estimated at 6,378,360.7 metres.\n\nIn 2005 the work was repeated using satellite navigation. The new flattening estimate was one part in 298.257 222 101 and the equatorial radius was 6,378,136.8 metres.\n\nAn earlier survey, in 1740, had given flattening at one part in 178 and an equatorial radius of 6,396,800 metres.\n\nNorthernmost point: Hammerfest (Fuglenes): 70° 40′ 11.23″ N\n\nSouthernmost point: Ismail (Staro-Nekrassowka): 45° 20′ 02.94″ N\n\nDifference in Geodetic Latitude: 25° 20′ 08.29″ \n\nDistance in kilometres: 2,821.853 ± 0.012\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6680651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6680651", "title": "Suasa", "text": "Suasa\n\nSuasa was an ancient Roman town in what is now the \"comune\" of Castelleone di Suasa, Marche, Italy. It is located in the Pian Volpello locality, in the valley of the Cesano River.\n\nSuasa was founded by the Romans in the early 3rd century BC, after the Battle of Sentinum (295 BC), in a territory inhabited by the Senones. The town was crossed by a secondary trait of the Via Flaminia and by the Via Salaria Gallica, which connected it to \"Forum Sempronii\" (Fossombrone) and Ostra. In 232 BC, it became a prefecture and, in the 1st century BC, a \"municipium\".\n\nSuasa started to decline from the 3rd century; in 409, it was sacked by Alarich's Goths during his march against Rome (see Sack of Rome). It was abandoned in the 6th century after the Gothic War, the population moving to nearby settlements.\n\nThe remains have been axcavated by the University of Bologna since 1987. The edifices found include:\n\nThe Suasa archaeological park is an archaeological area in Castelleone di Suasa (province of Ancona, Marche, Italy).\n\nIt includes the remains of the ancient town of Suasa, abandoned in the 6th century AD. The open-air museum of a Roman house (the Coiedii domus), of great interest because its size and architectonic complexity, can be visited in the park.\n\nThe domus was inhabited over a long period, reaching its maximum splendour in the 2nd century AD. The mosaics discovered in the interior are splendid and are the most important unitary complex of the Marches. Mythological, floral, and geometric scenes can be admired, but above all, a magnificent marble floor created with over fifteen different kinds of stone.\n\nAn avant-garde roofing and super-elevated passageways make the visit easily available.\n\nThe large amphitheatre lies at the foot of the hill. During the summer season evocative theatrical performances are held there\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30368314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30368314", "title": "Tactile voting device", "text": "Tactile voting device\n\nA tactile voting device is a device to enable a visually impaired person to mark a ballot paper in secret. \n\nThe plastic device is attached to a ballot paper, and consists of a number of flaps, each covering one of the boxes on the paper. A number, corresponding to the box covered, is embossed in black on each flap. The number shows up well against the white background of the ballot paper, and is raised so it can be identified by touch.\n\nOnce the voter knows which number corresponds to each candidate or option, they lift the relevant flap or flaps, so they know where to make their mark.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, all polling stations are legally required to provide a tactile voting device to any visually impaired voter.\n"}
{"id": "5269119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5269119", "title": "The French Connection (book)", "text": "The French Connection (book)\n\nThe French Connection: A True Account of Cops, Narcotics, and International Conspiracy is a non-fiction book by Robin Moore first published in 1969 about the notorious \"French Connection\" drug trafficking scheme. It is followed by the book \"The Setup\". The book was adapted to film in 1971 as \"The French Connection\", written by Ernest Tidyman and directed by William Friedkin.\n\nThe story follows the exhausting investigation of New York City detectives Eddie Egan and Sonny Grosso as they attempt to uncover the participants of a major drug ring. Acting on a hunch, the detectives begin surveillance on Pasquale \"Patsy\" Fuca, who was observed in a nightclub consorting with known criminals. It soon becomes apparent that Fuca is involved in a large drug trafficking operation, including two Frenchmen: Jean Jehan, the main person responsible for importing the heroin shipment to the United States, and Jacques Angelvin, a television personality.\n\n"}
{"id": "4006694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4006694", "title": "Unwitting testimony", "text": "Unwitting testimony\n\nUnwitting testimony refers to the unintentional evidence provided by historical sources. They may demonstrate the attitudes of an author, or the culture to which he or she belongs. This term was originally used by the British historian Arthur Marwick.\n\n"}
{"id": "3979884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979884", "title": "Valley of the Wolves: Iraq", "text": "Valley of the Wolves: Iraq\n\nValley of the Wolves: Iraq () is a 2006 Turkish action film directed by Serdar Akar and starring Necati Şaşmaz, Billy Zane and Ghassan Massoud. The story concerns a Turkish commando team which goes to Iraq to track down the US military commander responsible for the Hood event.\n\nThe film is set during the occupation of Iraq and includes references to other real events such as the Abu Ghraib prison scandal. The film, which went on nationwide general release across Turkey on , was the highest-grossing Turkish films of 2006 and is one of the most expensive Turkish films ever made.\n\nIt is part of the \"Valley of the Wolves\" media franchise, based on the Turkish television series of the same name, and was followed by \"\" (2008) and \"\" (2010).\n\nFilmed with a budget of $14 million, this was the most expensive Turkish film ever made at the time of its release before being surpassed by A.R.O.G.. The film grossed $27.9 million at the box office — $25.1 million in Turkey and $2.8 million in Europe.\n\nOpinions of the film greatly varied. While the \"Wall Street Journal\" characterized it as \"a cross between 'American Psycho' in uniform and the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\"\", Turkey's parliamentary speaker Bulent Arinc described it as \"absolutely magnificent\".\n\nThe film covers through fiction real-life events like the occupation of Iraq, the execution of Daniel Pearl and the Abu Ghraib torture scandal. Nevertheless, the film's primary focus is the Hood event (), an incident on July 4, 2003 following the 2003 invasion of Iraq where a group of Turkish military personnel operating in northern Iraq were captured, led away with hoods over their heads, and interrogated by the United States military.\n\nThe arrest is infamous in Turkey as the so-called \"Hood event\". The soldiers were led out of their headquarters at gunpoint, with hoods over their heads and subsequently detained for sixty hours before being released, after Turkey protested to the United States. This was the first time such an incident had taken place between the two NATO allies. Though neither side ever apologized, a US-Turkish commission set up to investigate the incident later issued a joint statement of regret. In addition, US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld wrote a letter to the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, expressing sorrow over what had happened. Many Turks took offense at the incident while it lasted, and after it as well.\n\nThe film opens with a fictional depiction of a real-life incident, the \"Hood event\". On July 4, 2003, the Turkish soldiers believe they are having an ordinary visit from their NATO allies, but a sudden change occurs, and 11 allied Turkish special forces soldiers and 13 civilians are arrested by Colonel Sam William Marshall (Billy Zane), in the northern Iraq town of Sulaymaniyah. They are forced to wear hoods while in detention, and are released some time later.\n\nA Turkish officer named Suleyman Aslan, who was a member of the special forces troops involved in the Hood event, is unable to bear the shame of what happened, and commits suicide. Before doing so, he writes a letter saying goodbye to his friend, Polat Alemdar (Necati Şaşmaz). Alemdar is a former Turkish intelligence agent who has recently severed links to the government agency for which he worked. Determined to avenge his friend's humiliation, Alemdar travels to Iraq along with several of his colleagues, seeking vengeance on the American commander whose actions led to Aslan's suicide.\n\nAt a checkpoint, Alemdar and his team kill three Iraqi Kurdish paramilitary troops called \"Peshmerge\". They attach explosives to the foundation of a hotel, to which they demand Colonel Sam William Marshall, who was responsible for the hooding incident, come. When Marshall arrives, Polat wants him to put a sack over his head and to publicly leave the hotel with him, allowing journalists to take photos, taking the same insult he committed to Polat's dead friend. The group threatens to blow up the hotel unless Marshall and some of his men let themselves be led out of the hotel while hooded. Marshall refuses and brings in a group of Iraqi children as human shields. Alemdar gives in and leaves.\n\nMarshall raids an Arab wedding on the pretext of hunting \"terrorists\". When the usual celebratory gunfire starts, one soldier states: \"Now they are shooting, now they are terrorists\"; they attack a wedding party, where a small child named Ali sticks a branch up the barrel of one of the soldiers' guns. At first, the soldier just hushes the boy away; the second time, he opens fire and afterwards looks astonished as he sees the little child dead. The rest of the soldiers panic and open fire on the wedding guests, beat up the bride, shoot the groom, the guests and children. The survivors are captured and forced into an airtight container truck and sent to Abu Ghraib prison.\n\nEn route to Abu Ghraib, an American soldier complains that the prisoners might be suffocating in the truck. One of Marshall's men then fires on the truck, spraying the detainees with bullets. \"See, now they won't suffocate to death\", he says. When the soldier threatens to report the incident, he is promptly shot. In Abu Ghraib, a group of American soldiers, among them the sole female Westerner in the film (a clear reference to Lynndie England and the Abu Ghraib torture scandal), is making naked human pyramids from those arrested in the wedding, aided by an Arab interpreter. The prisoners are washed with high pressure nozzles in what appears to be cattle stalls.\n\nIn a later scene, the execution of a Western journalist by Iraqi rebels is about to take place, but the sheikh Abdurrahman Halis Karkuki, who is esteemed by the rebels, prevents it, and offers the journalist the opportunity to kill the rebel who was about to kill him. The rebel does not resist, but the journalist declines the offer. Thereafter, the bride who survived the earlier massacre, Leyla, wants revenge by becoming a suicide bomber, but is talked out of it by the Sheikh. Leyla hurries to a market to stop her brother-in-law Abu Ali, the father of the child killed at the wedding, from blowing himself up in the place where Col. Marshall is having a meeting, but she arrives too late. Alemdar and his men, who are there to assassinate Marshall, are led to safety by Leyla.\n\nAlemdar and his team then attempt to kill Marshall again by rigging a bomb in a piano (which once belonged to Saddam Hussein) that is being delivered to Marshall as a gift. The bomb explodes prematurely, and Marshall survives. Alemdar and Leyla then go to a mosque, to meet the sheikh. Marshall tracks them down, however, and a big firefight ensues. The entire village and mosque are destroyed by heavy gunfire. Together they manage to kill Marshall, but Leyla is also killed by Marshall.\n\n\nThe film upset some viewers for its heavy and incriminating subject matter. Some have criticized it for alleged stereotyping and \"black and white\" portrayal of the opposing forces. The controversy arrives mainly from the following scenes:\n\n\nThe film's scriptwriter Bahadir Ozdener has defined the film by saying:\n\nThe movie's director, Serdar Akar, went further and said the film was supposed to promote a dialogue between religions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21537836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21537836", "title": "Violent non-state actor", "text": "Violent non-state actor\n\nIn international relations violent non-state actors (VNSA) (also known as non-state armed actors or non-state armed groups) are individuals and groups that are wholly or partly independent of state governments and which threaten or use violence to achieve their goals.\n\nVNSAs vary widely in their goals, size, and methods. They may include narcotics cartels, popular liberation movements, religious and ideological organizations, corporations (e.g. private military contractors), self-defence militia, and paramilitary groups established by state governments to further their interests.\n\nWhile some VNSAs oppose governments, others are allied to them. Some VNSAs are organized as paramilitary groups, adopting methods and structure similar to those of state armed forces. Others may be informally structured and use violence in other ways, such as kidnapping, using improvised explosive devices, or hacking into computer systems.\n\nThomas, Kiser, and Casebeer asserted in 2005 that \"VNSA play a prominent, often destabilizing role in nearly every humanitarian and political crisis faced by the international community\". As a new type of actor in international relations, VNSAs represent a departure from the traditional Westphalian sovereignty system of states in two ways: by providing an alternative to state governance; and by challenging the state's monopoly of violence.\n\nPhil Williams stated in 2008 that in the 21st century, they \"have become a pervasive challenge to nation-states\". Williams argues that VNSAs develop out of poor state governance but also contribute to the further undermining of governance by the state. He explains that when weak states are \"unable to create or maintain the loyalty and allegiance of their populations\", \"individuals and groups typically revert to or develop alternative patterns of affiliation\". This causes the family, tribe, clan or other group to become \"the main reference points for political action, often in opposition to the state\". According to Williams, globalization has \"not only... challenged individual state capacity to manage economic affairs, it has also provided facilitators and force multipliers for VNSAs\". Transnational flows of arms, for example, are no longer under the exclusive surveillance of states. Globalization helps VNSAs develop transnational social capital and alliances as well as funding opportunities.\n\nThe term has been used in several papers published by the US military.\n\nSome common and influential types of VNSAs include:\nPhil Williams, in an overview article, identifies five types of VNSAs:\n\nThere is no commonly accepted definition of \"terrorism\", and the term is frequently used as a political tactic to denounce opponents whose status as terrorists is disputed. An attempt at a global definition appears in the working draft of Comprehensive Convention Against International Terrorism, which defines terrorism as a type of act, rather than as a type of group. Specifically, \"terrorism\" in the draft refers to the threatened or actual intentional injury to others, and serious damage to property resulting in major economic loss:\n\nSince the definition encompasses the actions of some violent non-state actors (and of some state actors) and not others, disagreements remain and the treaty has yet to be agreed, . For example, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation has called for acts of terrorism to be distinguished from:\n\nViolent non-state actors have drawn international condemnation for relying heavily on children under the age of 18 as combatants, scouts, porters, spies, informants, and in other roles (although many state armed forces also recruit children). In 2017, for example, the United Nations identified 14 countries where children were widely used by armed groups: Afghanistan, Colombia, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Iraq, Mali, Myanmar, Nigeria, The Philippines, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen.\n\nNot all armed groups use children, and approximately 60 that used to do so have entered agreements to reduce or end the practice since 1999. For example, by 2017 the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) in the Philippines had released nearly 2,000 children from its ranks, and the FARC-EP guerilla movement in Colombia agreed in 2016 to stop recruiting children. In other situations, the use of children was increasing in 2017, particularly in Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria and Syria, where Islamist militants and groups opposing them intensified efforts to recruit children.\n\nResearchers at the Overseas Development Institute propose that engagement with VNSAs, which they call armed non-state actors, is essential to humanitarian efforts in conflicts. They claim that it is often necessary to do so to facilitate access to those affected and to provide humanitarian assistance. However, humanitarian agencies often fail to engage strategically with VNSAs. This tendency has strengthened since the end of the Cold War, partly because of the strong discouragement of humanitarian engagement with VNSAs in counterterrorism legislation and donor funding restrictions. In their opinion, further study is necessary to identify ways in which humanitarian agencies can develop productive dialogue with VNSAs.\n\nThe International Security Department and the International Law Programme at Chatham House are seeking to understand the dynamics that will determine support for a principle-based approach to engagement by humanitarian actors with VNSAs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22675707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22675707", "title": "Virginia Yip", "text": "Virginia Yip\n\nVirginia Yip (葉彩燕), a linguist, is director of the Childhood Bilingualism Research Centre. She is a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Her research interests include bilingual language acquisition, second language acquisition, Cantonese, Chaozhou and comparative Sinitic grammar, psycholinguistics, and cognitive science.\n\nVirginia Yip received her B.A. in linguistics at the University of Texas at Austin and her Ph.D. from the University of Southern California. She is the author of \"Interlanguage and Learnability: from Chinese to English\" (Benjamins) and co-author of a series of works on Cantonese grammar published by Routledge: \"Cantonese: A Comprehensive Grammar\" (which has been translated into Japanese), \"Basic Cantonese\" and \"Intermediate Cantonese\".\n\nShe and her team have created the Hong Kong Bilingual Child Language Corpus, the first longitudinal bilingual corpus in which Cantonese is represented along with English, and the largest multimedia bilingual corpus in the Child Language Data Exchange System (CHILDES) based at Carnegie Mellon University.\n\nYip is married to linguist Stephen Matthews from the University of Hong Kong. They have three bilingual children: a son and two daughters.\n\nThe Hong Kong Bilingual Child Language Corpus, which is reported in 2005 as the world's largest video-linked database of children becoming bilingual, created by Yip, and her husband, Stephen Matthews from The University of Hong Kong — features 170 hours of audio and video files of four families raising their children bilingually in Cantonese and English. The project, which includes transcripts and searchable video and audio segments, took 10 years to compile.\n\nThis database has already been the data source for several undergraduate and graduate dissertations in Hong Kong, and it is the basis of a book, The \"Bilingual Child\", written by Yip and Matthews and published by Cambridge University Press in 2007. The database focuses on children who are bilingual in English and Cantonese and who learned to speak two languages through the one-parent, one-language approach. Using that method, one parent speaks to the child in one language, and the other parent speaks to the child in another.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "946619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=946619", "title": "Visual pun", "text": "Visual pun\n\nA visual pun is a pun involving an image or images (in addition to or instead of language), often based on a rebus.\n\nVisual puns in which the image is at odds with the inscription are common in cartoons such as \"Lost Consonants\" or \"The Far Side\" as well as in Dutch gable stones. For instance the \"Batenburg\" stone from Prinsengracht, Amsterdam, shown here, puns on the words \"baten\" (to profit) and \"burg\" (castle) which together make up the name of a village near Nijmegen. European heraldry contains the technique of canting arms, which can be considered punning.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45099381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45099381", "title": "Willard McCarty", "text": "Willard McCarty\n\nWillard McCarty is Professor of Humanities Computing in the Department of Digital Humanities at King's College London, England, where he is director of the doctoral programme in the department. He is a visiting professor in the Digital Humanities Research Group in the School of Humanities and Communication Arts at the University of Western Sydney, Australia. He is a Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute, London.\n\nHe is the author of the book \"Humanities Computing\" and numerous scholarly articles and book chapters in the field. He is editor of the journal \"Interdisciplinary Science Reviews\" and founding editor of Humanist (electronic seminar).\n\nHe has received several honors and awards including the 2013 Roberto Busa Prize for lifetime achievement in the digital humanities and the 2006 Richard W. Lyman Award of the National Humanities Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "14849218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14849218", "title": "William Chomsky", "text": "William Chomsky\n\nWilliam Chomsky (January 15, 1896 – July 19, 1977) was an American scholar of Hebrew. He was born in Ukraine (then a part of the Russian Empire) and fled to the United States in 1913 to avoid conscription into the army. He worked in sweatshops in Baltimore before gaining employment teaching at the city's Hebrew elementary schools, using his money to fund his studies at Johns Hopkins University. Marrying Elsie Simonofsky – a native of what is present-day Belarus who grew up in the United States – they moved to Philadelphia, where they both began teaching at the Mikveh Israel religious school. William eventually rose to the position of school principal.\n\nIn 1924, he was appointed to the faculty at the country's oldest Jewish teacher training institution, Gratz College, where he became faculty president in 1932. In 1955 he also began teaching courses at Dropsie College. Independently, he was involved in researching Medieval Hebrew, eventually authoring a series of books on the language: \"How to Teach Hebrew in the Elementary Grades\" (1946), \"Hebrew, the Story of a Living Language\" (1947), \"Hebrew, the Eternal Language\" (1957), \"Teaching and Learning\" (1959), and an edited version of \"David Kimhi's Hebrew Grammar\" (1952). Described as a \"very warm, gentle, and engaging\" individual, William Chomsky placed a great emphasis on educating people so that they would be \"well integrated, free and independent in their thinking, and eager to participate in making life more meaningful and worthwhile for all\", a view that would subsequently be adopted by his son.\n\nWilliam Chomsky was born in Kupil, Volhynian Governorate, Russian Empire (in present-day Ukraine) in 1896. He taught as a professor at Gratz College. He became the faculty president of Gratz in 1932, a position that he held for 37 years. He also taught at Dropsie College, a graduate school for Jewish and Semitic studies from 1955–77. He was a renowned specialist of the history of the Hebrew grammatical tradition, before and after David Kimhi (1160–1235). His obituary (\"New York Times\", 22 July 1977) describes him as \"one of the world's foremost Hebrew grammarians\".\n\nChomsky was married to Elsie Simonofsky. The couple had two sons: Noam, a well-known linguist and activist; and David, a physician.\n\n\n"}
