{"id": "14009121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14009121", "title": "Animal, Vegetable, Miracle", "text": "Animal, Vegetable, Miracle\n\nAnimal, Vegetable, Miracle: A Year of Food Life (2007) is a non-fiction book by Barbara Kingsolver detailing her family's attempt to eat only locally grown food for an entire year.\n\nThe book revolves around the concept of improving the family's diet by eating only foods that her family was able to grow themselves or obtain locally (save for grains and olive oil). Kingsolver, along with her husband and daughters, start a farm in Virginia where they grow and can different varieties of tomatoes, learn about rooster husbandry, make cheese, and adjust to eating foods only when they are locally in season. The book contrasts this with the ecological costs of growing food in factory farms, transporting it thousands of miles, and adding chemical preservatives so it will not spoil.\n\nAn excerpt was published in the May/June 2007 issue of \"Mother Jones\" magazine, and is available online. There are also audio files of a May 16, 2007 discussion between Kingsolver and her husband at an hour-long presentation at a bookstore in Corte Madera, California.\n\n\"Time\" magazine's Lev Grossman named it one of the Top 10 Nonfiction Books of 2007, ranking it at #7. Rick Bass wrote in \"The Boston Globe\" that \"this text will fold quietly into the reader's consciousness, with affecting grace and dignity, because of its prose and sensibilities.\" and that \"Kingsolver is no pious soapboxer, but instead explores these ideas with enthusiasm and the awe of discovery.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37395", "title": "Celebration, Florida", "text": "Celebration, Florida\n\nCelebration is a census-designated place (CDP) and a master-planned community in Osceola County, Florida, United States, located near Walt Disney World Resort and originally developed by The Walt Disney Company. As part of the Orlando–Kissimmee Metropolitan Statistical Area, Celebration's population was 7,427 at the 2010 census.\n\nSubsequent to founding Celebration, Disney followed its plans to divest most of its control of the town. Several Disney business units continue to occupy the town's office buildings, and two utility companies, Smart City Telecom and Reedy Creek Energy Services, both operated from Walt Disney World, provide services to the town. The town itself remains directly connected to the Walt Disney World resorts via one of its primary streets, World Drive, which begins near the Magic Kingdom.\n\nDowntown Celebration's post office was designed by Michael Graves, the adjacent Welcome Center by Philip Johnson, and the Celebration Health building by Robert A. M. Stern. \nOther nearby buildings are designed by well-known architects including: Charles Moore (Preview Center), Graham Gund (Bohemian Hotel), Cesar Pelli (movie theatre), Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown (SunTrust Bank).\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Disney Development Company (DDC) established the Celebration Company to spearhead its development within approximately of land in the southern portion of the Reedy Creek Improvement District. Total investment for the project is estimated at US$2.5 billion.\n\nThe master plan was developed by Cooper, Robertson & Partners and Robert A. M. Stern, and the extensive landscape, parks, trails and pathways were designed by the San Francisco firm EDAW (now AECOM). Celebration is planned in an early 20th-century architectural style and is not zoned for high-density residences. Celebration was named the \"New Community of the Year\" in 2001 by the Urban Land Institute.\n\nThe first phase of residential development occurred in the summer of 1996 with Celebration Village, West Village, and Lake Evalyn; this was followed by the North Village, South Village, East Village and Aquila Reserve and the final Artisan Park phases. Disney CEO Michael Eisner took an especially keen interest in the development of the new town in the early days, encouraging the executives at Disney Development Company to \"make history\" and develop a town worthy of the Disney brand and legacy that extended to Walt Disney's vision of an Experimental Prototype Community of Tomorrow (EPCOT). DDC executives collaborated extensively with leaders in education, health, and technology in addition to planners and architects to create the vision and operating policies for the town.\n\nLater phases included construction by a number of developers, including David Waronker.\n\nCelebration is located at (28.320059, −81.540149).\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of , of which , or 0.28%, is water.\n\nCelebration is under USPS ZIP code 34747, sometimes known as Kissimmee. This is due to the city being unincorporated, as Celebration is not a subdivision and is still considered an unincorporated town.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 7,427 people, 3,063 households, and 716 families residing in the CDP. The population density was 704.9 people per square mile (272.16.0/km²). There were 4,566 housing units at an average density of 102.4/sq mi (39.6/km²). The racial makeup of the CDP was 91.0% white (with 81.9% of the population non-Hispanic white), 1.5% black, 3.2% Asian, 2.2% from two or more races and 0.26% Native American. Hispanics or Latinos of any race were 11.2% of the population.\n\nThere were 3,063 households, out of which 32.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 57.0% were married couples living together, 4.5% had a female householder with no married spouse present, and 35.0% were non-families. 24.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 3.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.44 and the average family size was 2.96.\n\nThe age distribution was 25.6% under the age of 18, and 9.2% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females, there were 94.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 93.5 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the CDP was $74,231, and the median income for a family was $92,334. Males had a median income of $51,250 versus $46,650 for females. The per-capita income for the CDP was $39,521, and 4.1% of the population lived below the poverty line.\n\nThe area is organized under state law as a community development district. As a result, voting is restricted to local landowners. The largest landowners are entities controlled by The Walt Disney Company.\n\nCelebration Town Center contains shops, restaurants, and other commercial establishments as well as 106 residences.\n\nCelebration has six Christian churches, one Jewish congregation, and one Hospital Ministry.\n\nThere are now more than five hundred registered companies listed as doing business in the shopping plazas, small office complexes, and the Disney World office building park. This community holds the only Class A office buildings in Osceola County.\n\nCelebration is separated into areas referred to as \"villages.\" The main village, closest to downtown, is where the first homes were constructed. North Village, closest to U.S. 192, houses the Georgetown Condos as well as Acadia Estate Homes. East Village includes Roseville Corner and Aquila Loop. Lake Evalyn, generally considered its own area of Celebration but not quite its own village, includes a small lake where one can find a multitude of ducks, alligators, and the occasional river otter. South Village houses the Spring Park Loop estate homes and Heritage Hall. Additionally, Siena Condos complete the outer edge of South Village by Celebration Blvd. Mirasol includes condos with concierge service and a day spa. Artisan Park is at the end of Celebration Ave and houses condos, townhomes, single-family residences as well as a clubhouse consisting of a pool, gym, and restaurant.\n\nCelebration hosts many events every year, including community-wide yard sales, an art show, an exotic car festival, an annual Radio Disney Holiday concert, an Oktoberfest Celebration, the \"Great American Pie Festival\" (televised on The Food Network), a \"Posh Pooch\" festival, and downtown events for the Fall and Christmas seasons when autumn leaves and \"snow\" (small-scale soap flakes) are released into the Town Center. The community also hosts a large Independence Day fireworks celebration. The town events are organized on the Internet by the Community Calendar.\n\nIn 2016, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that Celebration Town Center condominium owners \"are battling leaky roofs, balconies that have become separated from the sides of buildings and mold spreading in their walls. Their properties have become so dilapidated, they say, they're having trouble selling them.\"\n\nAn April 2016 civil suit seeks to force the Town Center Foundation, \"which took control of part of Celebration in 2004, to pay for upward of $15 million to $20 million in repairs\" which were deferred over ten years.\n\n91% of residents who work outside their homes drive to work.\n\nThe two main roads going through the center of the Celebration's downtown area are Market Street and Front Street. Other streets in Celebration include:\n\n\nThe School District of Osceola County, Florida operates public schools in Celebration. Celebration is zoned to the Celebration School for K-8. The school was and still partly is, using experimental education. This includes having many children, about 80, in one classroom, with three teachers. Celebration High School, located in the city, serves Celebration for grades 9–12. There are private education options provided by the Montessori School of Celebration (K-8). Private graduate education is available at Stetson University Celebration Campus. There are free classes offered at the community center by clubs for cooking, gardening, art, writing, and technology.\n\nThe Osceola Library System operates the West Osceola Branch Library in Celebration.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "39092586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39092586", "title": "Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act", "text": "Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act\n\nThe Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act (; ) is a U.S. public law that was introduced into the 113th United States Congress, which passed in the United States House of Representatives on February 12, 2013. The bill allows the town of Canton, Connecticut to take over two lapsed licenses from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) in order to refurbish two old local dams. The dams would be used to produce hydroelectric power.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the House Report 113-7, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Upper and Lower Collinsville Dams on the Farmington River were built to provide hydroelectric power to an ax factory, which was shut down in 1966. The dams have not produced power since that time, but continue to block upstream fish passage.\n\nOn February 23, 2001, FERC issued original licenses to Summit Hydropower to redevelop hydroelectric power capacity at these dams. The Upper Collinsville Dam project was to have a generation capacity of 373 kilowatts, while the Lower Dam was to have a capacity of 920 kilowatts. As part of this licensing process, an environmental assessment was completed. The licenses required Summit to commence project construction within two years from the issuance of the licenses.\n\nSection 13 of the Federal Power Act requires licensees to commence construction of hydroelectric projects within the time fixed in the license, which shall be no more than two years from the issuance of the license, and authorizes the Commission to issue one extension of the deadline, for no more than two years.\n\nOn November 26, 2002, FERC granted Summit a two-year extension to commence project construction at both sites, moving the deadline to February 23, 2005. Because construction did not commence by that date, the Commission sent Summit a notice of probable termination of the licenses on November 2, 2007. Summit did not respond to the notice. FERC terminated the licenses on December 4, 2007. Summit did not seek rehearing of the termination order.\n\nThe town of Canton, Connecticut intends to proceed with the two hydroelectric projects that Summit originally had proposed. On January 9, 2009, FERC granted the town a preliminary permit to undertake the necessary feasibility studies. The town has stated that it intends to pursue Low Impact Hydropower Institute certification for the projects and to provide for fish passage.\n\nIdentical legislation passed the House of Representatives in both the 111th and 112th Congresses as H.R. 4451 and H.R. 5625, respectively. H.R. 4451 was agreed to in the House by voice vote, under suspension of the rules, on June 16, 2010. H.R. 5625 passed the House by voice vote, under suspension of the rules, on June 26, 2012.\n\n\"This summary is based largely on the summary provided by the Congressional Research Service, a public domain source.\"\n\nThe Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act would authorize the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to:\n\nThe Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act also directs the FERC to:\n\nFinally, the Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act sets a deadline for the FERC to:\n\nThe Collinsville Renewable Energy Promotion Act provides a variety of exemptions from provisions of the Federal Power Act to the two projects listed in the bill.\n\nThe bill was introduced to the House by Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) on January 18, 2013. It was referred to the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the United States House Energy Subcommittee on Energy and Power. The bill had no co-sponsors and was not amended while in the House of Representatives. On February 12, 2013, the bill was passed under a motion to suspend the rules with a voice vote. This procedure typically indicates that a bill is broadly non-controversial. The bill was freshman Representative Esty's first bill in Congress.\n\nThe bill was received by the United States Senate on February 13, 2013 and then referred to the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. The Senate passed the bill by unanimous consent on May 22, 2014 after making an amendment in the nature of a substitute.\n\nThe House voted on June 23, 2014 to agree to the Senate's amendment of the bill. The vote was 379-3 in Roll Call Vote 340. President Barack Obama signed the bill into law on June 30, 2014.\n\nThe bill received very little attention from the national press. It was briefly covered in local media of Canton, Connecticut and the surrounding areas. One op-ed writer was strongly opposed to the bill, claiming that it was locally known as the \"Collinsville White Elephant Act.\" The op-ed writer argued that rather than being a win-win situation, the new power plants would only serve to increase the electricity bills of local residents and provide additional revenue for the local government (potentially for them to misspend). He based this assessment on existing state electricity laws and problems associated with net metering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12141973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12141973", "title": "Cologne Central Mosque", "text": "Cologne Central Mosque\n\nThe Cologne Central Mosque (, ) is a building commissioned by German Muslims of the Organization DITIB for a large, representative \"Zentralmoschee\" (central mosque) in Cologne, Germany. This mosque is being inaugurated by Turkish President Erdogan. After controversy, the project won the approval of Cologne's city council.\n\nThe mosque is designed in non-Ottoman architectural style, with glass walls, two minarets and a dome. The mosque is proposed to have a bazaar as well as other secular areas intended for interfaith interactions. As the mosque will be one of Europe's biggest mosques, and the largest mosque in Germany, it has been criticized for its size, particularly the height of the minarets.\n\nThe mosque cost £15–20 million to build, aiming to house 2,000 to 4,000 worshippers. The mosque is funded by Diyanet İşleri Türk İslam Birliği (DITIB), a branch of the Turkish government's religious affairs authority, bank loans, and donations from 884 Muslim associations. Cologne's St. Theodore Catholic Church has also decided to fundraise for the mosque. The architects of the mosque are Gottfried Böhm and his son Paul Böhm, who specializes in building churches.\n\nThe mosque is not in the Ottoman architecture style. It has a concrete and glass dome, and two 55 meter high minarets. The mosque has the bazaar and entrance on the ground floor, lecture halls in the basement, the prayer area on the upper floor and include a Muslim library. A well is placed in the centre to connect the two levels and create a pleasant atmosphere. The mosque consists of flat-like wall screens which form a dome in the centre.\n\nIt also has glass walls, which according to DITIB spokesman Alboga give visitors a feeling of openness. According to the architect, openness is further enhanced by an inviting staircase from the street. The developers have required that the secular areas of the mosque (e.g. the restaurant, event halls and stores) be open to people of all religions.\nA plan welcomed by then mayor of Cologne Fritz Schramma to build shorter minarets was dropped after the architects said the plan would leave the minarets out of proportion with the rest of the building and surrounding structures.\n\nThe inauguration of the mosque was controversial as the Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs neglected to invite mayor of Cologne Henriette Reker to the event. The failure to invite officials of Cologne municipality was interpreted as the mosque representing a growing Turkish parallel society in Germany and lacking respect for German institutions. President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan attended and held a speech at the event.\n\nThe project has been opposed by author Ralph Giordano, right-wingers, Jörg Uckermann, then local district's deputy mayor, has criticized the project saying that \"We don't want to build a Turkish ghetto in Ehrenfeld. I know about Londonistan and I don't want that here.\"\n\nMarkus Wiener of local activist group Pro Cologne, expressed his fear that the Cologne mosque will empower the Muslim population too much.\n\nOn June 16, 2007, 200 people gathered in a protest organized by Pro Cologne against the mosque including representatives from the Austrian Freedom Party and the Belgian Vlaams Belang. Then district deputy mayor Uckermann seconded that he thinks many residents reject the mosque because they believe that Cologne is a “Christian city”. The prominent author Ralph Giordano stated that he opposed the project as the mosque would be “an expression of the creeping Islamization of our land”, a “declaration of war”, and that he wouldn't want to see women wearing headscarfs on German streets, likening their appearance to “human penguins”. Henryk M. Broder, a journalist, disagrees with Giordano's metaphor but said that “A mosque is more than a church or a synagogue. It is a political statement.” Giordano's remarks have turned the local dispute into a national debate about the place of Islam in Germany. and other prominent Germans criticized the project as well. District mayor Uckermann stated that Giordano's comments “broke down the wall. Before if you criticised this monstrous mosque you were a Nazi. But we have a problem with the integration of Muslims. It's a question of language and culture.” Uckermann left the conservative CDU for right-wing Pro Cologne in 2008 after being voted out of office as the district's deputy mayor and reportedly facing party exclusion.The city's official for integration Marlis Bredehorst stated that \"it is important that the Muslims here get dignified houses of prayer\" and added that \"two hundred years ago, the Protestants had to pray secretively in Catholic Cologne [...] that is something we can't imagine anymore today.\" The city's mayor, Fritz Schramma, who supports the project said that “For me, it is self-evident that the Muslims need to have a prestigious place of worship, but it bothers me when people have lived here for 35 years and they don’t speak a single word of German.” Christian leaders have taken similarly ambivalent stances: the Catholic Church has long supported the project, though recently Cardinal Joachim Meisner, Archbishop of Cologne, has been more cautious: when asked if he was afraid of the mosque, he said, “I don't want to say I'm afraid, but I have an uneasy feeling.” He also stated that Turkey should allow its Christian minorities equivalent rights. He said the mosque would change the skyline of Cologne. Wolfgang Huber, Germany's top Protestant bishop, criticized the “male domination” he saw in Islam and said Muslims should be able to convert to Christianity without fearing reprisals and the penalty of death.\n\nPublic opinion seems “guardedly supportive, with a majority of residents saying they favor it”. A poll taken by a local newspaper among 500 Cologne residents showed that the project is supported by 63%, of whom 27% want its size to be reduced.\n\nA protest planned by Pro Cologne for September 20, 2008 was canceled by police at the last minute in the interest of public safety, after clashes between police and protestors.\n\nOn August 28, 2008, the Cologne City Council voted to approve the construction of the mosque. this position was taken by all parties except the Christian democrats (CDU). Outside the hall, a group of 30 protesters demonstrated against the approval, while 100 demonstrated in favor of it.\n\nThe Cologne mosque project has been contrasted with a less controversial project in Duisburg, Germany: in Duisburg, there was co-operation and good communication from an early stage between German politicians, church and community leaders and the developers of the mosque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3832636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3832636", "title": "Communist Party of the Basque Homelands", "text": "Communist Party of the Basque Homelands\n\nThe Communist Party of the Basque Homelands (, EHAK; , PCTV) was a communist Basque separatist party in the Basque Country, Spain. The party was outlawed by the Spanish Supreme Court after it was judicially proven to be part of Batasuna and, ultimately, ETA.\n\nEHAK was legally registered for the first time in 2002 but had no known activity until 2005, remaining inactive during these years. In this year, within weeks of the regional Basque election EHAK suddenly rose to national prominence when it publicly announced that it would assume the program of the banned abertzale lists of Aukera Guztiak and Batasuna. EHAK was then widely considered to be a proxy to circumvent the recent ruling which had outlawed Batasuna. Like Batasuna, their representatives refused to explicitly condemn the ETA attacks, being the only important political party not to do so in the Basque Country and Spain. Batasuna representatives asked their supporters to vote for EHAK, which obtained 150,188 votes (12.5%), entering the Basque Parliament with nine seats.\n\nThe People's Party requested that the Spanish government conducted investigations to ban EHAK too, though the initially State Legal Service (\"Abogacía General del Estado\") and the Attorney General's Office (\"Fiscalía General del Estado\") found no evidence to support legal actions against the party. \n\nOn 18 September 2008 the party was outlawed by the Spanish Supreme Court. According to the legal inquiry, EHAK was \"instrumental in continuing the illegal action designed by ETA/Ekin/Batasuna\", rapidly losing its autonomy to replace Batasuna's role in the institutional front of ETA's activities. Batasuna got, via EHAK, 837,000 euros corresponding to the public funding given to political parties with parliamentary representation; with no less than 34 Batasuna members (including some of their top officers) were hired by EHAK and paid with this public funding. In the end, according to the judicial inquiry, EHAK followed Batasuna's instructions to the point that there wasn't any difference.\n\nOn 4 August 2009 the judge Baltasar Garzón announced his intention to put a number of PCTV members on trial for ETA membership. Among them were two former Basque parliament deputies Karmele Berasategi and Nekane Erauskin; the party president Juan Carlos Ramos and the two party treasurers Jesús María Aguirre and Sonia Jacinto.\n\n"}
{"id": "25190900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25190900", "title": "Damning with faint praise", "text": "Damning with faint praise\n\nDamning with faint praise is an English idiom, expressing oxymoronically that half-hearted or insincere praise may act as oblique criticism or condemnation.\n\nThe concept can be found in the work of the Hellenistic sophist and philosopher Favorinus (c. 110 AD) who observed that faint and half-hearted praise was more harmful than loud and persistent abuse.\n\nThe explicit phrasing of the modern English idiomic expression was first published by Alexander Pope in his 1734 poem, \"Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot\" in \"Prologue to the Satires.\"\n\nAccording to William Shepard Walsh, \"There is a faint anticipation in William Wycherley's 'Double Dealer,' 'and libels everybody with dull praise,' But a closer parallel is in Phineas Fletcher, —\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8283072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8283072", "title": "Democratic Left Scotland", "text": "Democratic Left Scotland\n\nDemocratic Left Scotland is the continuation in Scotland of Democratic Left, the organisation formed when the Communist Party of Great Britain was dissolved in 1991. DLS was founded in May 1998.\n\nWhile DLS's sister organisation in England and Wales later renamed itself the New Politics Network and has since merged into the think tank Unlock Democracy, DLS is still active as part of the left. It publishes an occasional magazine, \"Perspectives\".\n\nThe organisation's slogan is \"There's more to politics than parties\", but some of its members do participate in other parties, such as the Scottish Socialist Party and Scottish Green Party, including Mark Ballard, former Green Party Member of the Scottish Parliament for Lothians. Two City of Edinburgh councillors are members of DLS.\n\n"}
{"id": "57574779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57574779", "title": "Double salary saga", "text": "Double salary saga\n\nDouble salary saga is the name given by media outlets to a political scandal in Ghana. In 2018, some members of the John Mahama administration who were ministers or deputy ministers and doubled as members of parliament were alleged to have received double salaries during their term in office. The law however requires such officials to choose to receive salary either as a minister or a member of parliament \n"}
{"id": "2934536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2934536", "title": "Emphyteusis", "text": "Emphyteusis\n\nEmphyteusis is a right, susceptible of assignment and of descent, charged on productive real estate, the right being coupled with the enjoyment of the property on condition of taking care of the estate and paying taxes and sometimes a small rent.\n\nIt started in the early Roman Empire and was initially granted by the state for the purposes of agriculture or building on land. In essence it was a long-term lease of an imperial domain of private land for a rental in kind. The title existing before emphyteusis was \"ius in agro vectigali\". The emphyteusis gave the lease-holder (emphyteuta) rights similar to those of a proprietor, although the real owner remained the person to whom the rent (\"canon\" or \"pensio\") was paid. Nevertheless, the tenant gained most of the rights of the owner. Accordingly, he could maintain \"actio vectigalis in rem\" against any one to recover possession of the land thus leased to him. Under certain circumstances, the land returned to the owner (as in the case of the death of the emphyteuta without an heir, non-payment of the rent or taxes for three years (or 2 years in case of land held of the Church), lapse of time if a term was fixed in the original agreement, \"contractus emphyteuseos\", which was a specific contract and neither an ordinary lease nor a sale. The rights of the emphyteuta embraced the full use of the land and its products; they were alienable and transferable by testament or \"ab intestato\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1826396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826396", "title": "Federal Police (Germany)", "text": "Federal Police (Germany)\n\nThe Federal Police (Bundespolizei or BPOL) is a (primarily) uniformed federal police force in Germany. It is subordinate to the Federal Ministry of the Interior (\"Bundesministerium des Innern (BMI)\"). Ordinary police forces, meanwhile, are under the administration of the individual German states (\"Bundesländer\") and are known as the \"Landespolizei\".\n\nThe \"Bundespolizei\" was formerly known as the \"Bundesgrenzschutz\" (BGS) (\"Federal Border Guard\"), which had a more restricted role. Prior to 1994 BGS members also had military combatant status due to their historical foundation and border-guard role in West Germany. In July 2005 the law renaming the BGS as the BPOL was enacted.\n\nThe BPOL has the following missions:\n\n\nThe \"Bundespolizei\" can also be used to reinforce state police if requested by a state \"(Land)\" government. The BPOL maintains these reserve forces to deal with major demonstrations, disturbances or emergencies, supplementing the capabilities of the State Operational Support Units. Several highly trained detachments are available for crisis situations requiring armored cars, water cannon or other special equipment.\n\nBPOL has investigators conduct criminal investigations only within its jurisdiction; otherwise the cases are referred to the appropriate state police force or to the federal criminal investigative agency, the Federal Criminal Police (\"Bundeskriminalamt\", BKA).\n\nIn addition, the \"Bundespolizei\" cooperates closely with German state executive authorities, such as prosecutor's offices (\"Staatsanwaltschaft\") in pursuing criminal investigations.\n\nOn the night of 13 September 2015 Germany unilaterally reintroduced border controls, under emergency provisions of the Schengen Agreement, due to the 2015 European migrant crisis overwhelming Germany's available resources, law enforcement and otherwise. The nominally temporary border controls were initially put in place just on the border with Austria, but by the following day (Monday 14 September 2015) they were being put in place at all borders with fellow EU members. The same day, Austria and other EU members who were part of the Schengen Area began to put in place their own border controls (again meant to be temporary) in response to Germany's actions.\n\nThe new German border controls are to be primarily enforced both by the various \"Landespolizei\" of those German states that adjoin external borders, and in particular by the \"Bundespolizei\".\n\nThe \"Bundespolizei\" consists of around 40,000 personnel:\n\nThe BPOL national headquarters (BPOL-\"Präsidium\") in Potsdam performs all central control functions. Eight regional headquarters (BPOL-\"Direktion\") control the BPOL stations conduct rail police and border protection missions. These areas of responsibility conform to the federal state boundaries which they did not do prior to 1 March 2008.\n\nThe regional headquarters are as follows:\n\nThese regional headquarters each have an investigation department and a mobile inspection and observation unit. Moreover, they control the 67 BPOL stations (BPOL-\"Inspektion\") which in turn control the \"Bundespolizeireviere\" or precincts located in places that require a 24-hour presence by BPOL officers.\n\nA special \"Direktion\" is responsible for Frankfurt International Airport.\n\nThe central school for advanced and vocational training is in Lübeck and controls the six basic training schools in Swisttal, Neustrelitz, Oerlenbach, Walsrode, Eschwege and Bamberg. It is also in charge of the Federal Police Sport School in Bad Endorf and a competitive sport project in Kienbaum near Berlin. The sport school specialises in winter sport events and has trained many of Germany's top skiers and skaters such as Claudia Pechstein.\n\nThe \"Zentrale Direktion Bundesbereitschaftspolizei\" controls the mobile support and rapid reaction battalions located in Bayreuth, Deggendorf, Blumberg (near Berlin), Hünfeld, Uelzen, Duderstadt, Sankt Augustin, Bad Bergzabern, Bad Düben and Ratzeburg. The number of \"Bereitschaftspolizei\" companies increased in March 2008 from 28 to 29 comprising approx. 25 percent of Germany’s police support units.\n\nThe following special units also exist:\n\nIn 1951 the West German government established a Federal Border Protection Force (\"Bundesgrenzschutz\" or BGS) composed of 10,000 men under the Federal Interior Ministry’s jurisdiction. The force replaced allied military organisations such as the U.S. Constabulary then patrolling West Germany’s borders. The BGS was described as a mobile, lightly armed police force for border and internal security despite fears that it would be the nucleus of a new German army. When West Germany did establish an army, the Bundeswehr, BGS personnel were given the choice of staying in the BGS or joining the army. Most decided to join the army.\n\nIn 1953, the BGS took control of the German Passport Control Service. In 1972 the Compulsory Border Guard Service was enacted by the parliament, which - in theory - is still in force, but suspended, similar to the conscription for the Bundeswehr. In 1976, the state police grades replaced the military rank structure and BGS training was modified to closely match that of the state police forces (\"Landespolizei\"). The West German Railway Police (\"Bahnpolizei\"), formerly an independent force, and the East German \"Transportpolizei\" were restructured under the BGS in 1990.\n\nIn July 2005, the BGS was renamed the \"Bundespolizei\" or BPOL (Federal Police) to reflect its transition to a multi-faceted federal police agency. The change also involved a shift to blue uniforms and livery for vehicles and helicopters. The German Interior Ministry reviewed the structure of the BPOL in 2007 and in March 2008 made the structure leaner to get more officers out of offices and onto patrol.\n\n\"Bundespolizei\" vehicles have number plates that are based on the BP XX-YYY system. BP stands for \"Bundespolizei.\" Older vehicles may still have the BGS \"BG\" plates.\n\nXX is a number from 10 to 55 indicating the type of vehicle:\n\n\nYYY is a combination of up to three numbers.\n\nThe \"Bundespolizei\" have favoured, and in some cases still favor (where the model is still in production), the following types of car:\n\n\nThis is some of the weaponry utilized by the Federal Police: \n\nThe Federal Police now has been reduced to three flight amenities pattern of 87 helicopters. This is the largest civilian helicopter fleet in Germany.\n\nApproximately 500 working dogs are used in the Federal Police at present. Most of the dogs are German shepherds. Other dog breeds are also used such as malinois, Dutch shepherd, German wirehaired pointer, giant schnauzer, and rottweiler. They accompany their handlers on daily missions in railway facilities, at airports, at the border or in physical security. Most working dogs live with the families of their handlers. Basic and advanced training is performed under the supervision of the Federal Police Academy at the Federal Police canine schools in Bleckede (Lower Saxony) and Neuendettelsau (Bavaria) where dogs and handlers go through patrol dog and explosive detection courses.\n\nJunior ranks (\"Mittlerer Dienst\")\nSenior ranks (\"Gehobener Dienst\")\nCommand ranks (\"Höherer Dienst\")\n\n"}
{"id": "24911719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24911719", "title": "Hacienda Luisita", "text": "Hacienda Luisita\n\nHacienda Luisita is a 6,453-hectare sugar plantation located in the province of Tarlac, Philippines. The hacienda spans 11 villages in three towns of Tarlac province. Most of the original farmworkers reside in 10 villages – Barangays Balete, Cutcut (or Sta. Catalina), Lourdes (formerly Texas), Mapalacsiao (formerly Luisita), Asturias, and Bantog in Tarlac City; Barangay Motrico in La Paz town; and Barangays Parang (formerly San Sebastian), Mabilog (formerly Pasajes) and Pando in Concepcion town. The original estate includes the Central Azucarera de Tarlac (CAT) sugar mill and a golf course. The eleventh village is Barangay Central in Tarlac City which houses the CAT sugar mill, the St. Martin de Porres Hospital and the Our Lady of Lourdes Church. It features Luisita Golf and Country Club, a golf course and Las Haciendas de Luisita Subdivision, a 5-interconnected luxury subdivision.\n\nOriginally owned by the Compañía General de Tabacos de Filipinas, it is now owned by the Cojuangco family who acquired the hacienda in the late 1950s. The estate's incorporators, who control 70 percent of Hacienda Luisita's stock shares, are Pedro Cojuangco, Josephine C. Reyes's heirs, Teresita C. Lopa's heirs, José Cojuangco, Jr., and María Paz C. Teopaco, all siblings of the late former President Corazón C. Aquino who, on the day she became President of the Philippines, bequeathed her shares to her children and the Daughters of Charity and other non-profit organizations. The remaining 30 percent of the stock shares was given to farm workers under the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program's stock distribution option scheme.\n\nHacienda Luisita was once part of the holdings of Compañía General de Tabacos de Filipinas, Sociedad Anónima, better known as Tabacalera. The land was owned by Spain, by virtue of the country's colonial relationship to the Philippines. The tobacco company was founded on 26 November 1881 by the Spaniard Antonio López y López from Comillas, Cantabria and Santiago de Cuba, and Don Guillermo Rubio born in Santander, Cantabria.\n\nIn 1780, the popularity of cigars in the Philippines prompted Spanish authorities to impose a tobacco monopoly, such that the only ones able to plant, manufacture, and sell cigars were the colonial government. Tabacalera was a private enterprise Lopez y Lopez founded with the sole intention of taking over the Philippine Tobacco Monopoly from the Spanish colonial government; the monopoly was abolished a year after Lopez y Lopez acquired the estate. This included the Hacienda Antonio (named after his eldest son), Hacienda San Fernando and Hacienda Isabel (named after his eldest daughter) in Cagayán and Isabela provinces where the La Flor de Isabela cigar was cultivated. Due to the high profits of sugar and tobacco in the Philippines, Antonio López y López and his son, Claudio López Bru, the second to hold the title, donated some of the profits to the Jesuits to create the Pontifical University of Comillas, a university outside Madrid.\n\nDuring the American period, the hacienda supplied almost 20% of America's sugar from 1898 to the 1940s (from the Spanish–American War until World War II) back when the Tabacalera still owned it. Because of this, the Luisita sugar became popular locally as well. The Spanish-owned hacienda flourished mainly because of America's obsession with sugar. In the 20's, Tabacalera then left the tobacco business to focus on the growing sugar industry to cater to US’ needs since this product was more profitable at the time. They invested heavily on the business by constructing a sugar refinery known as \"Central Azcurarera de Tarlac\" (CAT) which used America's centrifugal machinery technology in order to double the production and lessen the cost of shipping sugar to a refinery in Laguna owned by the Roxas Family. \n\nThe refinery became the largest sugar central in the Philippines thus increasing Tabacalera's profits. With a new production line, the refinery required a new system for more efficiency. Workers were laid off or forced to retire since old farm workers were not familiar with the new technology. This then resulted to continuous protests for a year. The Hacienda produced 126,129 tons of sugar in 1928 as well as allegedly receiving additional tons of sugar with current prices of Php 23,450. The workers then found out that the hacienda was receiving multiple fines that were deducted from the workers’ wages, which sparked outrage.\n\nDuring the Japanese period, the Hacienda still continued all operations in sugar production. A Japanese policy was put in place to ensure that supplies in commodities such as rice & sugar were not interrupted and were made available to Filipinos in order to avoid insurgencies or rebellions. The continuation of the production both served the Japanese and the Spanish's interests at that time.\n\nIn 1942, Luis Taruc and 200 members formed HUKBALAHAP, a peasant based guerrilla army to fight the Japanese forces. Many of these members were farmers of Hacienda Luisita because of their discontent with Tabacalera, advocating for the distribution of land. On 25 January 1945, General Douglas Macarthur set up his headquarters at Hacienda Luisista to fight Japanese forces in the Philippines.\n\nIn 1947, a farmer's wife was reported to be raped by one of the remaining Spanish directors of the hacienda. In support of her, other wives lay themselves on the railroad tracks to stop the trains carrying sugar from being delivered. The Spanish director immediately left for Spain which pushed the Huks to execute Spanish \"encargados\" or managers in front of the guest house when they refused to admit to the crime.\n\nIn 1957, the owners of the Tabacalera decided to sell Hacienda Luisita as well as the sugar mill, Central Azcurarera de Tarlac (CAT), because of the HUKBALAHAP rebels who were causing them problems. The CAT was supposed to be sold to the Lopez family of Iloilo but then the purchase was vetoed by President Ramon Magsaysay due to the clan owning multiple businesses such as Meralco, ABS-CBN, the Manila Chronicle, Negros Navigation, as well as a number of substantial agricultural holdings, which the president deemed to problematic because the Lopez's were becoming too powerful. \nPresident Magsaysay then offered the Central Azcurarera de Tarlac to Jose Cojuangco Sr. through Ninoy Aquino Jr (Jose's son-in-law) in early 1957. Ninoy Aquino was Magsaysay's political prodigy and personal assistant at that time, which helped the Cojuangcos in purchasing the CAT. As agreed upon, the hacienda would be paid for in pesos, while the CAT would be paid for in US dollars. The Philippine government aided the Cojuangcos in obtaining the loans needed to pay the price. \n\nIn 1957, the clan took control of the CAT and the hacienda through Manufacturer's Trust Co New York. endorsed by the Banko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) as well as Government System Insurance Service (GSIS). The BSP then approved the loan on August 1957 under two conditions, one of which states that the CAT be bought together with Hacienda Luisita and that the hacienda shall be distributed to farmers under the Magsaysay's social justice program. The government then authorized a P 5.9 million loan from GSIS which was approved on November 1957. The Cojuangcos were given a ten-year window to distribute the lands to farmers as stipulated. Finally on 1958, Jose Cojuangco Sr.’s Tarlac Development Corporation (TADECO) became the new owner of Hacienda Luisita as well as the CAT. Ninoy Aquino then became Luisita’s first administrator.\n\nThe year 1967 marked the end of the 10-year window given to the Cojuangcos that the Philippine government gave in order to distribute the land. However, the Cojuangcos failed to distribute any land. In response, farmers’ organizations began to form in order to push for the distribution.This was combined with political unrest in the nation. The United Luisita Workers Union (ULWU) was created because of this. This year was also when Benigno Aquino Jr. was elected senator. \n\nNationwide Martial Law was declared on 21 September 1972, and Benigno Aquino Jr., the son-in-law of Jose \"Pepe\" Cojuangco, was among the first to be imprisoned for treason, murder, subversion and weapons possession. During this time, the Marcos administration took an interest in enforcing land reform.\n\nJose Cojuangco died on 21 August 1976, five years from the day of the Plaza Miranda bombing. On 7 May 1980, the government filed a case against Tarlac Development Corporation, or TADECO (a Cojuangco company) before the Manila Regional Trial Court (RTC). The case (Republic of the Philippines vs. TADECO, Civil Case No. 131654, Manila Regional Trial Court, Branch XLIII) sought the surrender of the hacienda to the Ministry of Agrarian Reform in order to properly distribute the land to the qualified farm workers. The Cojuangcos responded to the case saying that there were no such tenants or farm workers qualified to receive such land. This was during the same time that Ninoy Aquino and his family were to leave for exile in the United States. At the time, the anti-Marcos block portrayed this lawsuit as an attack on the Aquino family by the Marcoses, while the farmers viewed it as the government taking action to help them.\n\nNinoy Aquino was shot on 21 August 1983, as he was descending the plane. On 2 December 1985, the Manila RTC ordered TADECO to surrender Hacienda Luisita to the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (MAR, now the Department of Agrarian Reform, or DAR) due to noncompliance of the land reform act. TADECO alleged that the hacienda housed no tenants, and that the hacienda's sugar lands are not covered by existing agrarian reform legislations. The Cojuangcos brought the case to the Court of Appeals due to their belief that the case was an act of harassment by the Marcos administration because Corazon Aquino took her late husband's place to run against Marcos in the 1986 snap elections. Of note is that land reform was one of the issues her campaign focused on. The snap elections were fraught with anti-Marcos allegations, and led to the People Power Revolution.\n\nDespite the installation of Corazon Aquino as president, the farmland was not being distributed. Thousands of farmers marched to Malacañang Palace on 22 January 1987. 13 protesting farmers were shot in what is now known as the \"Mendiola Massacre.\" On 22 July 1987, Aquino issues Presidential Proclamation 131 and Executive Order No. 229, which outlines her agrarian reform program. In 18 May 1988, the case the Marcos administration filed against TADECO was dismissed by the Court of Appeals, and the Philippine government, under the Aquino administration, moved to dismiss its own case. In 10 June 1988, the Republic Act No. 6657 (Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law) is signed into law by President Aquino. The law includes a Stock Distribution Option (SDO) which would allow landowners to distribute the stock shares of the land to the farmers, instead of actual land..\n\nIn compliance with the CARP, 4915.75 hectares of Hacienda Luisita were folded into Hacienda Luisita Inc. (HLI) on 23 August 1988, in order to comply with a stock distribution agreement between the landowners and farm workers. The hacienda's farmers voted 92.9% in favor of the SDO route with regards to the land reform act. This agreement was implemented on 11 May 1989. The farm workers' therefore now owned 33% of the plantation, while the Cojuangcos retained ownership of the remaining 67% of stocks. In accordance with the SDO agreement, there would be a 30-year schedule for distributing and transferring the stocks to the farmers.\n\nIn 1 September 1995, 3,290 hectares of the hacienda was reclassified from agricultural to commercial, industrial, and residential land. This was passed by the Provincial Board of Tarlac, the governor of which was Margarita \"Tingting\" Cojuangco, wife of Jose “Peping\" Cojuangco, Jr., brother of Cory Aquino. The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) approved the conversion of 500 hectares in 1996. \n\nIn 2003, hacienda workers filed a petition to have the SDO agreement revoked, and in 2005, the DAR cancelled the stock distribution agreement. It was cited that the SDO had failed to improve the lives of the more than 5,000 farmer beneficiaries. HLI appealed this decision, but in May 2006, the Presidential Agrarian Reform Council rejected with finality the motion of HLI to reconsider the revocation of the stock distribution agreement. However, the Supreme Court issued a temporary restraining order, stopping the Presidential Agrarian Reform Council from parceling out the land to the workers.\n\nThe Cojuangcos have often garnered criticism for their ownership of the estate with some critics comparing the situation to problems seen in oligarchy based systems. The estate's incorporators, who control 70 percent of the stock shares of the Hacienda, are Pedro Cojuangco, the children of Josephine C. Reyes, the heirs of Teresita C. Lopa, José Cojuangco, Jr., and María Paz C. Teopaco--all of whom were siblings of the late former President Corazón C. Aquino who, on the day she became President of the Philippines, bequeathed her shares to her children and non-profit organizations such as the Daughters of Charity for fear that it would be used as political propaganda. The remaining 30 percent of the stock shares was given to farm workers under the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program's Stock Distribution Option scheme.\n\nThe signing into law of Republic Act No. 6657 or the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Law (CARL) on 10 June 1988 signaled the beginning of the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP) under former President Corazon Aquino. One of the clauses of the CARP provided for a Stock Distribution Option (SDO), which would allow for compliance with the agrarian reform law by distributing stocks of the hacienda to the farm workers rather than actual land.\n\nOn 9 May 1989, a referendum was held among the farm workers of Hacienda Luisita to determine whether stocks or land would be the means by which the hacienda would be distributed. The results of the May 1989 referendum, as well as a second referendum held in October of the same year, found that a great majority of the Hacienda farm workers voted in favor of distribution of stock rather than land. The terms of the SDO agreement of the Hacienda are quoted as follows:\n“At the end of each fiscal year, for a period of 30 years, the SECOND PARTY (HLI) shall arrange with the FIRST PARTY (TADECO) the acquisition and distribution to the THIRD PARTY (farm workers) on the basis of number of days worked and at no cost to them of one-thirtieth (1/30) of 118,391,976.85 shares of the capital stock of the SECOND PARTY (HLI) that are presently owned and held by the FIRST PARTY (TADECO), until such time as the entire block of 118,391,976.85 shares shall have been completely acquired and distributed to the THIRD PARTY (farm workers).\"\nThe SDO agreement however was met with considerable criticism, most notably in 2003 when hacienda workers (farmers, HLI supervisory group workers, union officers) began filing petitions to the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) to have the SDO agreement revoked due to their dividends and other promised benefits not being given. Daily wage was at P194.50, and there was only one working day per week, due to the mechanizing of some tasks in the hacienda. A petition with more than 5,300 signatures was filed to revoke the SDO agreement and stop land conversion in the hacienda.\n\nIn 2004, the workers' union tried to negotiate with the management to increase daily wages to P225 and increase work days to 2-3 days weekly. Management refused. In 1 October of that year, 327 workers (farm workers and union officers) were retrenched.\n\nOn 6 November 2004, United Luisita Workers Union (ULWU) and the Central Azucarera de Tarlac Labor Union (CATLU) launched a strike near Gate 1 of the Central Azucarera de Tarlac sugar mill. The protesters were pushing for an increase in their P9.50 weekly wage, increased worker benefits and, more broadly, a greater commitment for national land reform. Over a thousand farmers, and another several thousand union members attended the demonstration. \n\nOn 16 November 2004, ten days after the start of the said strike, police and soldiers were dispatched by then Labour Secretary Patricia Santo Tomás, to storm and disperse the blockade. The enforcers utilized tear gas, water cannons, guns, and military vehicles to disseminate the crowd. Seven of the people participating in the rally were killed, an estimated number of 121 people, adults and children, were injured, and 133 people were arrested and detained.\n\nThe incident has sparked a national outcry, however, then Deputy Speaker Benigno ‘Noynoy’ Aquino III, Representative of Tarlac, claims that the dispersal done by the enforcers was justified. A case was filed against the police and military with regards to the injuries and deaths, however it was dismissed by the office of the Ombudsman in 2010. Proceeding that, a motion to reopen the case was filed by the families of the victims, however, it was declined by the Office of the Ombudsman on 2 October 2014.\n\nThe November 2004 massacre or more popularly known as the Hacienda Luisita massacre is one of the most prominent instances of protest related deaths of Filipinos in recent years. In the months following the Hacienda Luisita massacre, eight more people who either supported or provided evidence to the farmers’ cause were found murdered, beginning with the assassination of peasant leader Marcelino Beltran just before he was to testify about the massacre.\n\nIn the aftermath of the November 2004 massacre, the DAR established Task Force Luisita to conduct further investigations and conduct focus group discussions among the farmers. On 22 September 2005, based on the findings of its investigations, Task Force Luisita recommended the revocation of the SDO agreement forged between Hacienda Luisita Inc. (HLI) and the farm workers. Three months later, on December of the same year, the Presidential Agrarian Reform Council (PARC) issued a resolution ordering the revocation of the SDO agreement and the distribution of the hacienda's land among the farm workers. Land distribution and the cancellation of the SDO agreement was halted however in June 2006 when the Supreme Court granted the petition of HLI and issued a temporary restraining order on the PARC resolution.\n\nOn 18 August 2010, oral arguments on the Hacienda Luisita case were heard by the Supreme Court for the first time since the dispute was brought to its doors in 2006. A landmark decision was ultimately reached on 5 July 2011, wherein the Supreme Court lifted the temporary restraining order on the 2005 PARC resolution and upheld both the distribution of land to the hacienda's farm workers and the revocation of the SDO agreement forged in 1989. In acknowledgement of the fact that 93% of the hacienda's farm workers voted in favor of SDO in the 1989 referendum, included in the July 2011 decision was the further mandating of the DAR to hold another referendum to determine which among the hacienda's farm workers would wish to receive land or to remain as stockholders of HLI. This decision to hold another referendum was met with considerable criticism however as critics asserted that agrarian reform laws stipulate that land distribution should be the only viable option and alternatives such as the SDO violate this.\n\nOn 22 November 2011, the Supreme Court modified its July 2011 decision and revoked the option for the hacienda farm workers to remain as stockholders of HLI, stating:\n“Upon a review of the facts and circumstances, We realize that the FWBs [Farmer-Worker Beneficiaries] will never have control over these agricultural lands for as long as they remain as stockholders of HLI…\n\nIn line with Our finding that control over agricultural lands must always be in the hands of the farmers, We reconsider our ruling that the qualified FWBs should be given an option to remain as stockholders of HLI, inasmuch as these qualified FWBs will never gain control given the present proportion of shareholdings in HLI.”\n\nIn compliance with agrarian reform laws, the Supreme Court decisions further stated that HLI was entitled to payment by the government as just compensation for distributing the hacienda's lands to the farm workers. The corporation was to receive compensation for the distributed land based on its valuation on the date of its taking from HLI. \n\nIn line with this, HLI presented 2 January 2006 as the appropriate date of taking based on when a Notice of Coverage was issued by the DAR placing the hacienda's land under compulsory acquisition. However the Supreme Court maintained its initial stance that the date of taking be marked at 21 November 1989, based on when the original stock distribution plan was approved, stating this was when ownership of the lands was initially relinquished to make way for its distribution to the farm workers via stock. Under the 2006 valuation of the distributed land, the compensation payment would have amounted to about P5 billion while under the 1989 valuation of the distributed land, the compensation would total only about P200 million. \n\nOn 24 April 2012, the Supreme Court released a final and executory decision regarding Hacienda Luisita:\n\"To recapitulate, the Court voted on the following issues in this manner:\n\n1. In determining the date of taking, the Court voted 8-6 to maintain the ruling fixing November 21, 1989 as the date of taking, the value of the affected lands to be determined by the LBP and the DAR;\n\n2. On the propriety of the revocation of the option of the FWBs [Farmer-Worker Beneficiaries] to remain as HLI stockholders, the Court, by unanimous vote, agreed to reiterate its ruling in its November 22, 2011 Resolution that the [stock distribution option] granted to the FWBs stays revoked;\n\n3. On the propriety of returning to the FWBs the proceeds of the sale of the 500-hectare converted land and of the 80.51-hectare SCTEX land, the Court unanimously voted to maintain its ruling to order the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the said land to the FWBs less the 3% share, taxes and expenses specified in the fallo of the November 22, 2011 Resolution;\n\n4. On the payment of just compensation for the homelots to HLI, the Court, by unanimous vote, resolved to amend its July 5, 2011 Decision and November 22, 2011 Resolution by ordering the government, through the DAR, to pay to HLI the just compensation for the homelots thus distributed to the FWBS.\n\nWHEREFORE, the Motion to Clarify and Reconsider Resolution of November 22, 2011 dated December 16, 2011 filed by petitioner Hacienda Luisita, Inc. and the Motion for Reconsideration/Clarification dated December 9, 2011 filed by private respondents Noel Mallari, Julio Suniga, Supervisory Group of Hacienda Luisita, Inc. and Windsor Andaya are hereby DENIED with this qualification: the July 5, 2011 Decision, as modified by the November 22, 2011 Resolution, is FURTHER MODIFIED in that the government, through DAR, is ordered to pay Hacienda Luisita, Inc. the just compensation for the 240-square meter homelots distributed to the FWBs.\n\nThe July 5, 2011 Decision, as modified by the November 22, 2011 Resolution and further modified by this Resolution is declared FINAL and EXECUTORY. The entry of judgment of said decision shall be made upon the time of the promulgation of this Resolution.\n\nNo further pleadings shall be entertained in this case.\n\nSO ORDERED.\"\nThe Supreme Court ruling states that the 4,916 hectares of Hacienda Luisita is to be redistributed to 6,296 registered farm-worker beneficiaries, while the Hacienda Luisita Incorporated (HLI) will be receiving 40,000 pesos per hectare as compensation. This is based on the 1989 valuation of the Hacienda Luisita that the Supreme Court had voted upon. But from the 4,916 hectares to be redistributed, 500 hectares were converted into non-agricultural use in 18 August 1996 by the Department of Agrarian Reform, while 80.5 hectares was also subtracted for the development of the Subic Clark Tarlac Expressway (SCTEX). Other inconsistencies within area size have caused conflicting numbers, but according to the DAR this then leaves only 4,099.92 hectares of land to be distributed.\n\nThe process of land distribution was decided to be through lottery system, wherein the names of the beneficiaries are placed into a drum, and those chosen will be given the Lot Allocation Certificate (LAC). Farmer-worker Beneficiaries then sign the Application to Purchase and Farmers' Undertaking (APFU), for the registry of their Certificate of Land Ownership Award (CLOA), which is the actual land title. The lottery system had started on 18 July 2013 in Barangay Cutcut, Tarlac City with 340 farmers being given the first batch of Lot Allocation Certificates.<ref name=\"gutierrez2013\" / But it was on 30 September 2013, where DAR Secretary Virgilio de los Reyes started awarding the actual Certificate of Land Ownership (CLOA) to 600 Farmer-worker beneficiaries in Barangay Pando. \n\nAs of 12 July 2016, 4,099 hectares have been already distributed to farmers, but the sales shares from the Hacienda Luisita's converted land to be paid to the farmer-worker beneficiaries have been left unpaid which amounts to 1.3 billion pesos. On 24 April 2017, protesters consisting of the Unyon ng mga Manggagawa sa Agrikultura (UMA) and other militant organizations had gone to Hacienda Luisita to protest against the 348 hectare land that was turned over to Rizal Commercial Banking Corporation (RCBC) back in 25 November 2004 for a 431.7 million peso loan obligation. The protest led to property damage, where protesters had destroyed over 100 meters of a wall surrounding the contested lot. On 21 February 2018, Luisita Land Corporation has since filed a case against 15 farmers for the protest, for malicious mischief and trespassing of the RCBC owned land. \n\nAs of 4 July 2018, the Hacienda Luisita has fully complied with distributing the sales shares to farmers. The 1.3 billion peso was broken down as such: P500 million received from Luisita Realty Inc. for a 200 hectare lot sold in 1996, P750 million for the selling of Luisita Industrial Park, and around P80 million for the 80.51 hectares used for the SCTEX road network. The ruling also states that 3% of the earlier stock transfers that were paid to the farmers will be deducted from the 1.3 billion to be received. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17680947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17680947", "title": "History of the Jews in the Byzantine Empire", "text": "History of the Jews in the Byzantine Empire\n\nThe history of the Jews in the Byzantine Empire has been well-recorded and preserved.\n\nAfter the decline of the Greek-speaking Hellenistic Judaism in ancient times, the use of the Greek language and the integration of the Greek culture into Judaism continued to be an integral part of the life in Jewish communities in the Byzantine Empire. The legal standing of the Jews of the Byzantine Empire was unique during the entire history of the Empire; they did not belong to the Christian Eastern Orthodox faith, which was the state religion, nor were they—in most circumstances—grouped together with heretics and pagans. They were placed in a legal position somewhere between the two worlds. The place along the spectrum of social freedom in which Byzantine Jews found themselves varied somewhat—though far from drastically—with time, and depended largely on three factors: the theological desire of the state to maintain the Jews as a living testament to the victory of Christianity, the desire of the state to strengthen its control, and the ability of centralized rule from Constantinople to enforce its legislation.\n\nIn 212, Caracalla bestowed citizenship on all its residents, including the Jews. This granted Jews legal equality to all other citizens, and formed the foundation of their legal status in Byzantium following the founding of Constantinople in 330. Indeed, Jews enjoyed the right to practice their faith under the rule of the Byzantines, as long as they paid the Fiscus Judaicus. For example, circumcision, which was considered mutilation and therefore punishable by death if performed on a non-Jewish child, and by exile if performed on a non-Jewish adult, was legally permitted within Jewish religious practices. Byzantine law recognized synagogues as places of worship, which could not be arbitrarily molested, Jewish courts had the force of law in civil cases, and Jews could not be forced to violate \"Shabbat\" and their festivals.\n\nSince the year 390 nearly all of the territory of present-day Israel came under Byzantine suzerainty. The area was divided into the following provinces: Palestina Prima, Palestina Secunda and Palestina Tertia. These provinces were part of the Diocese of the East.\n\nIn 404, Jews were excluded from certain governmental posts. In 418, they were barred from the civil service, and from all military positions. In 425, they were excluded from all remaining public offices, both civilian and military—a prohibition which Justinian I repeated. Such restrictions, however, inevitably compromised the theological arguments for restricting the Jewish religion; although they empowered the Christian citizens of the empire at the expense of its Jews, all laws dealing with the Jews implicitly recognized the continued existence and legality of the Jewish religion.\n\nThus Emperor Theodosius II found that he had to balance the first two of the three factors governing the treatment of Jews in the empire—theology, political pragmatism and enforceability. He could not, however, effectively control the third. In 438, Theodosius had to reaffirm the prohibition on Jews holding public office, because it had been poorly enforced. Even in 527, a decree which renewed this prohibition began by observing that \"heedless of the laws' command [they have] infiltrated public offices\".\n\nThere was one office, however, that Jews were not forbidden from assuming. This was the office of decurion, a tax collector who was required to pay all deficits in revenue from his own pocket. Theodosius II, who laid out much of the legal precedent and foundation for Byzantine law in his Theodosian Code, permitted Jews, like other citizens, to hire a substitute to perform the duties of decurion in their place. Justinian, whose legal code included 33 laws relating to the Jews, initially maintained this ability, but it was abolished in 537. Sharf explains that the purpose of this was so that the Jews \"never enjoy the fruits of office, but only suffer its pains and penalties\".\n\nIn addition to the matter of holding public office, Jews were also unequal to Christians with respect to the ownership of slaves. Restrictions on the ownership of Christian slaves by Jews were in place through the reign of many emperors, under the fear that Jews would use conversion of slaves as a means to increase their number. Additionally, this was designed to provide an incentive for non-Christian slaves to convert into Christianity, and an economic restriction on the Jews. Restrictions on slave-owning could not, however, be excessively burdensome, because slaves, although numerous, were between 10-15% of the population. Under the Theodosian Code, therefore, ownership of Christian slaves by Jews was not prohibited, although their purchase was. Thus, one who gained possession of a slave by means such as inheritance would remain his or her owner. Purchase of slaves was usually penalized by compelled sale at the original purchase price.\n\nSlave ownership produces another example of the threefold balancing act of Legislation dealing with the Jewish minority of Byzantium: ownership of Christian slaves undermined the \"living testament\" theology, but was a pragmatic requirement of the time, and the prohibition thereof could not be entirely enforced, since freedom may not necessarily have been a desirable option for a slave who was well-treated by his masters.\n\nThe third important restriction on Judaism—in addition to the limitations on public service and slave ownership—was that the Jewish religion, though allowed to survive, was not allowed to thrive. Theologically, the victory of Christianity could be successfully asserted by maintaining a small contingent of Jews within the empire, although allowing them to become too sizable a minority would threaten the theological monopoly of Orthodox Christianity within the Empire.\n\nOne important ramification of this policy was the prohibition on the construction of new synagogues within the Empire, though the repair of old synagogues was permitted. This prohibition was difficult to enforce, as archaeological evidence in Israel indicates that illegal synagogue construction continued throughout the sixth century. The synagogue did continue to be respected as an inviolable place of worship until the reign of Justinian.\n\nBeginning at this time, most legislation regarding the Jews—even laws which expanded the rights which they were afforded—were \"prefaced by unambiguous expressions of hatred and contempt for Judaism\".\n\nThe Civil Code of Justinian tightened the regulations on the ownership of Christian slaves by non-Christians. It abolished compensation for illegal purchases of Christian slaves, and added a 30 lb gold fine for this offense. Jews owning Christian slaves during the time of Justinian could be punished by execution.\n\nIn 545, Justinian legislated that the right of existence of any synagogue on land belonging to an ecclesiastical institution be nullified. He was also the first emperor to order that existing synagogues be converted into churches. There is, however, only one example of such a conversion taking place by force: the synagogue in Borem. This synagogue was most likely converted for military reasons, in light of its strategic position on the frontier with the territory of the Berber tribes. In fact, Justinian banned all non-Christian places of worship in northern Africa, in legislation that grouped Jews with pagans and heretics. This legislation was hardly enforced, but set a precedent for the violability of synagogues and the blurring of the difference between Jews and other non-Christians. Once more, this represents the divergence between the Empire's theological objectives, its pragmatic goals and its capability to enforce its legislation. The poor efficacy of legislation points to the dominating power of the latter in restraining the two former factors, which, in this case, coincided.\n\nIn terms of symbolic legal roles, the Jews also found that they were positioned somewhere between other non-Christians and the Christian majority. For instance, Justinian demanded that Passover be shown as subservient to Easter; in cases in which the former would fall before the latter, the Jews were forbidden from celebrating it on its appointed day, and were compelled to delay it. Jews were also forbidden from giving testimony concerning Christians in a court of law—a restriction already present in the Theodosian code—although Justinian eased this restriction in 537 to allow them to testify in cases between Christian individuals and the state. This privilege was not enjoyed by any other non-Christian group. Once more, the state sacrificed the doctrinal subordination of the Jews in order to gain practical benefits, in this case testimony against those who faced it in court.\n\nQuestions of internal Jewish discourse—which could, under the Theodosian Code, be arbitrated only by Jewish courts—could, under the Justinian Code, be officiated by the state, a power which Justinian did not shy away from utilizing. In 553 for instance, Justinian required that the public reading of the Pentateuch proceed in vernacular, rather than Hebrew, and forbade altogether the reading of the \"Mishna\". In this way, Justinian not only restricted the religious freedom of the Jews, but also expanded his own power in order to reinforce the principle that, \"in theory, there is no area that falls outside of the Empire's legislative power\". Justinian's restrictions were, however, poorly enforced. Ironically, what little enforcement they did enjoy contributed to a notable growth in Jewish culture and liturgy. For instance, the banning of the reading of \"Mishna\" prompted Jewish scholars to write the \"piyutim\", important works of poetry which refer strongly to the \"Mishna\". Because these were not banned by the Civil Code, they afforded Jews the ability to circumvent it. Accordingly, this form of religious expression flourished under Justinian.\n\nAlthough the Justinian Code remained in force in the Eastern Empire until the ninth century, the period following Justinian's reign was generally characterized by toleration of non-Christians, particularly the Jews. However, during the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628 many Jews sided against the Byzantine Empire in the Jewish revolt against Heraclius, which successfully assisted the invading Persian Sassanids in conquering all of Roman Egypt and Syria. In reaction to this, anti-Jewish measures were enacted throughout the Byzantine realm and as far away as Merovingian France. Soon thereafter, in 634 the Muslim conquests began, during which many Jews initially rose up again against their Byzantine rulers. During this time Heraclius became the first emperor to force the conversion of Jews to Christianity. Following his death, and until 1204, the Jews suffered only three notable legal persecutions, the sum of whose span was roughly fifty years. It is even debated whether the first of these—the anti-Jewish measures passed during the reign of Leo III the Isaurian—could be considered a persecution. The second of these, during the reign of Basil I from 867 to 886, briefly punctuated the tolerance of the ninth century. The last of these persecutions took place under John Tzimiskes, who reigned from 969 to 976. Accordingly, there were no recorded legal persecutions of the Jews for nearly two and a half centuries following his reign.\n\nIn fact Samuel Krauss writes in his famous work on Byzantine Jewry that Constantinople at the time of the Byzantine Empire was \"the center of the Jewish, Samaritan and Karaite scholarship\". Eleazar ben Killir a Byzantine Jew from a Greek-speaking area wrote his famous piyutim, which are still in use in the most Machzorim and became the teacher of all paytanim who came after him. Asaph the Jew wrote in Byzantium the first Hebrew medical treatise.\n\nThe \"Sefer Yosippon\" was written down in the 10th century in the Byzantine south Italy by the Greek-speaking Jewish community there. Judah Leon ben Moses Mosconi, a Romaniote Jew from Achrida edited and expanded the \"Sefer Josippon\" later. This community of Byzantine Jews of southern Italy produced such prominent works like the \"Sefer Ahimaaz\" of Ahimaaz ben Paltiel, the \"Sefer Hachmoni\" of Shabbethai Donnolo, the \"Aggadath Bereshit\" and many piyyutim. The liturgical writings of these Romaniote Jews, especially the piyyut were eminent for the development of the Ashkenazi Mahzor, as they found their way through Italy to Ashkenaz and are preserved to this day in the most ashkenazi mahzorim. Like in the case of the Hellenistic Jewish authorship some of the Byzantine Jewish manuscripts show the use of the Greek language in religious and communal aspects. The language of this manuscripts is not in Ancient Greek, but rather in an older form of Modern Greek. These texts are the oldest known written texts in Modern Greek. Beside these Rabbanites and as a part of the Empire's Romaniote Jews, important Karaite communities like the Constantinopolitan Karaites and the Karaites of Adrianople flourished and produced eminent personalities for the Karaite movement like Caleb Afendopolo, Elijah Bashyazi, Aaron ben Joseph of Constantinople, Aaron ben Elijah, Judah Hadassi and other.\n\nIn the twelfth century, there were about 2,500 Jews in Constantinople, 2,000 Jews in Thebes and 500 Jews in Thessalonica. Halmyrus, Rhaedestus, Chios, and Rhodes each housed 400 Jews. Also, there were about 300 Jews each in Corinth and Samos, and 200 Jews in Gallipoli.\n\nIt was in the 12th century that the passing Crusaders wrought havoc upon the Jewish communities of Byzantium, in a foretaste of what the later Latin occupation would bring upon the Byzantine Christians. Although most crusading bands did not adopt a policy of violence or forced conversion against the Jews, the First Crusade certainly undertook an anti-Jewish face in certain communities. Because the Crusade was undertaken with the goal of \"subjugating all non-believers to the faith,\" many crusaders compelled Jews to convert on pain of death, and there is a large number of recorded cases of mass suicides within Jewish communities—particularly among Jewish maidens—in order to avoid such conversions.\n\nThe Fourth Crusade further degraded the position of Byzantine Jews. As smaller states separated from a weakened empire, the rulers of these states found themselves more capable of enforcing legislation than their Byzantine counterparts. The most powerful protection on the rights of Jews—governmental impotence to enforce laws—was thus abolished. Theodore Doukas, who crowned himself emperor of Epiros after he conquered Thessalonica, was known for his persecution of the Jews, which began in 1229, a year before the end of his reign. Theodore's disdain for the Jews is well-established. Still, his waiting until 1229—five years after capturing Thessalonica and declaring himself emperor—indicates that antisemitism may not have been the cause of his anti-Jewish edicts. Rather, they appear to have been motivated by a desire to confiscate Jewish property at a time when his empire was short of funds. This explains the expropriations of Jewish property under Theodore, as well as his regime's abstention from religious persecution for its own sake.\n\nJohn Vatatzes, the emperor of Nicaea, commenced legal persecution of the Jews in 1253. Unlike Theodore, Vatatzes ordered that the Jews within the Empire of Nicaea be converted to Christianity, though he did not order the expropriation of Jewish property. Although these measures began only a year before Vatatzes' death, they seemed to have set a precedent of persecution which his son, Theodore II Laskaris, followed.\n\nIt was in this environment of persecution that the Palaiologoi rose to the imperial throne. Michael VIII Palaiologos largely ended persecution of the Jews. Bowman writes the following:\n\nMichael's road to the throne had been of questionable legality, and that fact earned him many enemies. Additionally, he oversaw an empire which was strongly dependent on foreign powers, and had an immense need for gold to fund its great military expenses. It is not surprising, therefore, that he turned to the Jews and other minorities (most notably the Armenians) as a source of support in an embattled state of affairs, and when the ethnic majority and the mainstream elite had grown unfriendly toward him.\n\nAndronikos II Palaiologos followed his father's precedent. The tolerance of Andronikos was quite notable, even drawing condemnation from Patriarch Athanasius III of Alexandria, against what he saw as \"excessive\" tolerance of Jews and other non-Christians, in particular for permitting them to live amongst Christians. The patriarch's complaint indicates that, in spite of the tolerance of the Palaiologoi, the norm of imperial law was to require non-Christians to live separately from Christians. This apparent trend of segregation between the peoples of Byzantium, which certainly included the Jews, is confirmed in a letter by John, bishop of Citrus, in the latter half of the twelfth century, which declared that, \"People of alien tongues and alien beliefs, such as Jews, Armenians, Ishmaelites, Hagarites and other such as these were permitted from of old to dwell in Christian countries and cities, except that they had to live separately and not together with the Christians\".\n\nBy the fourteenth century, the Jewish question of Byzantium seemed to be most concerned with Venetian Jews. Venetians had come to reside in the Empire in large numbers by the early 14th century, and treaties between the Empire and Venice granted the Venetians living in the empire, including Jews of Venetian origin, special privileges, though they also carried certain minor economic prohibitions. Under the aegis of these treaties, Venetian Jews could buy, sell or rent land anywhere in Constantinople. They also enjoyed a more favorable tax structure than Byzantine citizens, as well as the freedom of movement and settlement anywhere in the Empire.\n\nFurther complicating this legal status, some Jews obtained Venetian citizenship either \"by coming from areas subject to the Republic or by purchasing naturalization\", thus obtaining the same privileges as Venetian nationals in the Empire. At this time, the Empire was in rapid decay, and could not seriously enforce laws intended to curtail these rights and regain economic control within its borders. Thus, an exception to the general trend of Byzantine history emerged during this century, whereby Jews were entitled to a broader set of rights than Christians. However, it is important to note that these liberties were conferred based on their being Venetian, not based on their Jewish identity. Non-Venetian Jews did not profit from the Venetian-Byzantine treaties, and non-Jewish Venetians enjoyed the same liberties as their Jewish compatriots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15295", "title": "Intelligent design", "text": "Intelligent design\n\nIntelligent design (ID) is a pseudoscientific argument for the existence of God, presented by its proponents as \"an evidence-based scientific theory about life's origins\". Proponents claim that \"certain features of the universe and of living things are best explained by an intelligent cause, not an undirected process such as natural selection.\" ID is a form of creationism that lacks empirical support and offers no testable or tenable hypotheses, so it is not science. The leading proponents of ID are associated with the Discovery Institute, a fundamentalist Christian and politically conservative think tank based in the United States.\n\nThough the phrase \"intelligent design\" had featured previously in theological discussions of the design argument, the first publication of the term \"intelligent design\" in its present use as an alternative term for creationism was in \"Of Pandas and People\", a 1989 creationist textbook intended for high school biology classes. The term was substituted into drafts of the book, directly replacing references to \"creation science\" and \"creationism\", after the 1987 United States Supreme Court's \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" decision, which barred the teaching of \"creation science\" in public schools on constitutional grounds. From the mid-1990s, the intelligent design movement (IDM), supported by the Discovery Institute, advocated inclusion of intelligent design in public school biology curricula. This led to the 2005 \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" trial in which U.S. District Judge John E. Jones III found that intelligent design was not science, that it \"cannot uncouple itself from its creationist, and thus religious, antecedents,\" and that the school district's promotion of it therefore violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nID presents two main arguments against evolutionary explanations: irreducible complexity and specified complexity. These arguments assert that certain features (biological and informational, respectively) are too complex to be the result of natural processes. As a positive argument against evolution, ID proposes an analogy between natural systems and human artifacts, a version of the theological argument from design for the existence of God. ID proponents then conclude by analogy that the complex features, as defined by ID, are evidence of design.\n\nDetailed scientific examination has rebutted the claims that evolutionary explanations are inadequate, and this premise of intelligent design—that evidence against evolution constitutes evidence for design—is a false dichotomy. It is asserted that ID challenges the methodological naturalism inherent in modern science though proponents concede that they have yet to produce a scientific theory.\n\nBy 1910 evolution was not a topic of major religious controversy in America, but in the 1920s the Fundamentalist–Modernist Controversy in theology resulted in Fundamentalist Christian opposition to teaching evolution, and the origins of modern creationism. Teaching of evolution was effectively suspended in U.S. public schools until the 1960s, and when evolution was then reintroduced into the curriculum, there was a series of court cases in which attempts were made to get creationism taught alongside evolution in science classes. Young Earth creationists (YEC) promoted creation science as \"an alternative scientific explanation of the world in which we live\". This frequently invoked the argument from design to explain complexity in nature as demonstrating the existence of God.\n\nThe argument from design, the teleological argument or \"argument from intelligent design\", has been advanced in theology for centuries. It can be summarised briefly as \"Wherever complex design exists, there must have been a designer; nature is complex; therefore nature must have had an intelligent designer.\" Thomas Aquinas presented it in his fifth proof of God's existence as a syllogism. In 1802, William Paley's \"Natural Theology\" presented examples of intricate purpose in organisms. His version of the watchmaker analogy argued that, in the same way that a watch has evidently been designed by a craftsman, complexity and adaptation seen in nature must have been designed, and the perfection and diversity of these designs shows the designer to be omnipotent, the Christian God. Like creation science, intelligent design centers on Paley's religious argument from design, but while Paley's natural theology was open to deistic design through God-given laws, intelligent design seeks scientific confirmation of repeated miraculous interventions in the history of life. Creation science prefigured the intelligent design arguments of irreducible complexity, even featuring the bacterial flagellum. In the United States, attempts to introduce creation science in schools led to court rulings that it is religious in nature, and thus cannot be taught in public school science classrooms. Intelligent design is also presented as science, and shares other arguments with creation science but avoids literal Biblical references to such things as the Flood story from the Book of Genesis or using Bible verses to age the Earth.\n\nBarbara Forrest writes that the intelligent design movement began in 1984 with the book \"The Mystery of Life's Origin: Reassessing Current Theories\", co-written by creationist Charles B. Thaxton, a chemist, with two other authors, and published by Jon A. Buell's Foundation for Thought and Ethics. Thaxton held a conference in 1988, \"Sources of Information Content in DNA\", which attracted creationists such as Stephen C. Meyer.\n\nIn March 1986, a review by Meyer used information theory to suggest that messages transmitted by DNA in the cell show \"specified complexity\" specified by intelligence, and must have originated with an intelligent agent. In November of that year, Thaxton described his reasoning as a more sophisticated form of Paley's argument from design. At the \"Sources of Information Content in DNA\" conference in 1988, he said that his intelligent cause view was compatible with both metaphysical naturalism and supernaturalism.\n\nIntelligent design avoids identifying or naming the intelligent designer—it merely states that one (or more) must exist—but leaders of the movement have said the designer is the Christian God. Whether this lack of specificity about the designer's identity in public discussions is a genuine feature of the concept, or just a posture taken to avoid alienating those who would separate religion from the teaching of science, has been a matter of great debate between supporters and critics of intelligent design. The \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" court ruling held the latter to be the case.\n\nSince the Middle Ages, discussion of the religious \"argument from design\" or \"teleological argument\" in theology, with its concept of \"intelligent design\", has persistently referred to the theistic Creator God. Although ID proponents chose this provocative label for their proposed alternative to evolutionary explanations, they have de-emphasized their religious antecedents and denied that ID is natural theology, while still presenting ID as supporting the argument for the existence of God.\n\nWhile intelligent design proponents have pointed out past examples of the phrase \"intelligent design\" that they said were not creationist and faith-based, they have failed to show that these usages had any influence on those who introduced the label in the intelligent design movement.\n\nVariations on the phrase appeared in Young Earth creationist publications: a 1967 book co-written by Percival Davis referred to \"design according to which basic organisms were created\". In 1970, A. E. Wilder-Smith published \"The Creation of Life: A Cybernetic Approach to Evolution\" which defended Paley's design argument with computer calculations of the improbability of genetic sequences, which he said could not be explained by evolution but required \"the abhorred necessity of divine intelligent activity behind nature\", and that \"the same problem would be expected to beset the relationship between the designer behind nature and the intelligently designed part of nature known as man.\" In a 1984 article as well as in his affidavit to \"Edwards v. Aguillard\", Dean H. Kenyon defended creation science by stating that \"biomolecular systems require intelligent design and engineering know-how\", citing Wilder-Smith. Creationist Richard B. Bliss used the phrase \"creative design\" in \"Origins: Two Models: Evolution, Creation\" (1976), and in \"Origins: Creation or Evolution\" (1988) wrote that \"while evolutionists are trying to find non-intelligent ways for life to occur, the creationist insists that an intelligent design must have been there in the first place.\" The first systematic use of the term, defined in a glossary and claimed to be other than creationism, was in \"Of Pandas and People\", co-authored by Davis and Kenyon.\n\nThe most common modern use of the words \"intelligent design\" as a term intended to describe a field of inquiry began after the United States Supreme Court ruled in 1987 in the case of \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" that it is unconstitutional for a state to require the teaching of creationism in public school science curricula.\n\nA Discovery Institute report says that Charles B. Thaxton, editor of \"Pandas\", had picked the phrase up from a NASA scientist, and thought, \"That's just what I need, it's a good engineering term.\" In drafts of the book, over one hundred uses of the root word \"creation\", such as \"creationism\" and \"Creation Science\", were changed, almost without exception, to \"intelligent design\", while \"creationists\" was changed to \"design proponents\" or, in one instance, \"cdesign proponentsists\". In June 1988, Thaxton held a conference titled \"Sources of Information Content in DNA\" in Tacoma, Washington, and in December decided to use the label \"intelligent design\" for his new creationist movement. Stephen C. Meyer was at the conference, and later recalled that \"The term \"intelligent design\" came up...\"\n\n\"Of Pandas and People\" was published in 1989, and in addition to including all the current arguments for ID, was the first book to make systematic use of the terms \"intelligent design\" and \"design proponents\" as well as the phrase \"design theory\", defining the term \"intelligent design\" in a glossary and representing it as not being creationism. It thus represents the start of the modern intelligent design movement. \"Intelligent design\" was the most prominent of around fifteen new terms it introduced as a new lexicon of creationist terminology to oppose evolution without using religious language. It was the first place where the phrase \"intelligent design\" appeared in its primary present use, as stated both by its publisher Jon A. Buell, and by William A. Dembski in his expert witness report for \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\".\n\nThe National Center for Science Education (NCSE) has criticized the book for presenting all of the basic arguments of intelligent design proponents and being actively promoted for use in public schools before any research had been done to support these arguments. Although presented as a scientific textbook, philosopher of science Michael Ruse considers the contents \"worthless and dishonest\". An American Civil Liberties Union lawyer described it as a political tool aimed at students who did not \"know science or understand the controversy over evolution and creationism\". One of the authors of the science framework used by California schools, Kevin Padian, condemned it for its \"sub-text\", \"intolerance for honest science\" and \"incompetence\".\n\nThe term \"irreducible complexity\" was introduced by biochemist Michael Behe in his 1996 book \"Darwin's Black Box\", though he had already described the concept in his contributions to the 1993 revised edition of \"Of Pandas and People\". Behe defines it as \"a single system which is composed of several well-matched interacting parts that contribute to the basic function, wherein the removal of any one of the parts causes the system to effectively cease functioning\".\n\nBehe uses the analogy of a mousetrap to illustrate this concept. A mousetrap consists of several interacting pieces—the base, the catch, the spring and the hammer—all of which must be in place for the mousetrap to work. Removal of any one piece destroys the function of the mousetrap. Intelligent design advocates assert that natural selection could not create irreducibly complex systems, because the selectable function is present only when all parts are assembled. Behe argued that irreducibly complex biological mechanisms include the bacterial flagellum of \"E. coli\", the blood clotting cascade, cilia, and the adaptive immune system.\n\nCritics point out that the irreducible complexity argument assumes that the necessary parts of a system have always been necessary and therefore could not have been added sequentially. They argue that something that is at first merely advantageous can later become necessary as other components change. Furthermore, they argue, evolution often proceeds by altering preexisting parts or by removing them from a system, rather than by adding them. This is sometimes called the \"scaffolding objection\" by an analogy with scaffolding, which can support an \"irreducibly complex\" building until it is complete and able to stand on its own.\nBehe has acknowledged using \"sloppy prose\", and that his \"argument against Darwinism does not add up to a logical proof.\" Irreducible complexity has remained a popular argument among advocates of intelligent design; in the Dover trial, the court held that \"Professor Behe's claim for irreducible complexity has been refuted in peer-reviewed research papers and has been rejected by the scientific community at large.\"\n\nIn 1986, Charles B. Thaxton, a physical chemist and creationist, used the term \"specified complexity\" from information theory when claiming that messages transmitted by DNA in the cell were specified by intelligence, and must have originated with an intelligent agent.\nThe intelligent design concept of \"specified complexity\" was developed in the 1990s by mathematician, philosopher, and theologian William A. Dembski. Dembski states that when something exhibits specified complexity (i.e., is both complex and \"specified\", simultaneously), one can infer that it was produced by an intelligent cause (i.e., that it was designed) rather than being the result of natural processes. He provides the following examples: \"A single letter of the alphabet is specified without being complex. A long sentence of random letters is complex without being specified. A Shakespearean sonnet is both complex and specified.\" He states that details of living things can be similarly characterized, especially the \"patterns\" of molecular sequences in functional biological molecules such as DNA.\nDembski defines complex specified information (CSI) as anything with a less than 1 in 10 chance of occurring by (natural) chance. Critics say that this renders the argument a tautology: complex specified information cannot occur naturally because Dembski has defined it thus, so the real question becomes whether or not CSI actually exists in nature.\n\nThe conceptual soundness of Dembski's specified complexity/CSI argument has been discredited in the scientific and mathematical communities. Specified complexity has yet to be shown to have wide applications in other fields, as Dembski asserts. John Wilkins and Wesley R. Elsberry characterize Dembski's \"explanatory filter\" as \"eliminative\" because it eliminates explanations sequentially: first regularity, then chance, finally defaulting to design. They argue that this procedure is flawed as a model for scientific inference because the asymmetric way it treats the different possible explanations renders it prone to making false conclusions.\n\nRichard Dawkins, another critic of intelligent design, argues in \"The God Delusion\" (2006) that allowing for an intelligent designer to account for unlikely complexity only postpones the problem, as such a designer would need to be at least as complex. Other scientists have argued that evolution through selection is better able to explain the observed complexity, as is evident from the use of selective evolution to design certain electronic, aeronautic and automotive systems that are considered problems too complex for human \"intelligent designers\".\n\nIntelligent design proponents have also occasionally appealed to broader teleological arguments outside of biology, most notably an argument based on the fine-tuning of universal constants that make matter and life possible and which are argued not to be solely attributable to chance. These include the values of fundamental physical constants, the relative strength of nuclear forces, electromagnetism, and gravity between fundamental particles, as well as the ratios of masses of such particles. Intelligent design proponent and Center for Science and Culture fellow Guillermo Gonzalez argues that if any of these values were even slightly different, the universe would be dramatically different, making it impossible for many chemical elements and features of the Universe, such as galaxies, to form. Thus, proponents argue, an intelligent designer of life was needed to ensure that the requisite features were present to achieve that particular outcome.\n\nScientists have generally responded that these arguments are poorly supported by existing evidence. Victor J. Stenger and other critics say both intelligent design and the weak form of the anthropic principle are essentially a tautology; in his view, these arguments amount to the claim that life is able to exist because the Universe is able to support life. The claim of the improbability of a life-supporting universe has also been criticized as an argument by lack of imagination for assuming no other forms of life are possible. Life as we know it might not exist if things were different, but a different sort of life might exist in its place. A number of critics also suggest that many of the stated variables appear to be interconnected and that calculations made by mathematicians and physicists suggest that the emergence of a universe similar to ours is quite probable.\n\nThe contemporary intelligent design movement formulates its arguments in secular terms and intentionally avoids identifying the intelligent agent (or agents) they posit. Although they do not state that God is the designer, the designer is often implicitly hypothesized to have intervened in a way that only a god could intervene. Dembski, in \"The Design Inference\" (1998), speculates that an alien culture could fulfill these requirements. \"Of Pandas and People\" proposes that SETI illustrates an appeal to intelligent design in science. In 2000, philosopher of science Robert T. Pennock suggested the Raëlian UFO religion as a real-life example of an extraterrestrial intelligent designer view that \"make[s] many of the same bad arguments against evolutionary theory as creationists\". The authoritative description of intelligent design, however, explicitly states that the \"Universe\" displays features of having been designed. Acknowledging the paradox, Dembski concludes that \"no intelligent agent who is strictly physical could have presided over the origin of the universe or the origin of life.\" The leading proponents have made statements to their supporters that they believe the designer to be the Christian God, to the exclusion of all other religions.\n\nBeyond the debate over whether intelligent design is scientific, a number of critics argue that existing evidence makes the design hypothesis appear unlikely, irrespective of its status in the world of science. For example, Jerry Coyne asks why a designer would \"give us a pathway for making vitamin C, but then destroy it by disabling one of its enzymes\" (see pseudogene) and why a designer would not \"stock oceanic islands with reptiles, mammals, amphibians, and freshwater fish, despite the suitability of such islands for these species\". Coyne also points to the fact that \"the flora and fauna on those islands resemble that of the nearest mainland, even when the environments are very different\" as evidence that species were not placed there by a designer. Previously, in \"Darwin's Black Box\", Behe had argued that we are simply incapable of understanding the designer's motives, so such questions cannot be answered definitively. Odd designs could, for example, \"...have been placed there by the designer for a reason—for artistic reasons, for variety, to show off, for some as-yet-undetected practical purpose, or for some unguessable reason—or they might not.\" Coyne responds that in light of the evidence, \"either life resulted not from intelligent design, but from evolution; or the intelligent designer is a cosmic prankster who designed everything to make it look as though it had evolved.\"\n\nIntelligent design proponents such as Paul Nelson avoid the problem of poor design in nature by insisting that we have simply failed to understand the perfection of the design. Behe cites Paley as his inspiration, but he differs from Paley's expectation of a perfect Creation and proposes that designers do not necessarily produce the best design they can. Behe suggests that, like a parent not wanting to spoil a child with extravagant toys, the designer can have multiple motives for not giving priority to excellence in engineering. He says that \"Another problem with the argument from imperfection is that it critically depends on a psychoanalysis of the unidentified designer. Yet the reasons that a designer would or would not do anything are virtually impossible to know unless the designer tells you specifically what those reasons are.\" This reliance on inexplicable motives of the designer makes intelligent design scientifically untestable. Retired UC Berkeley law professor, author and intelligent design advocate Phillip E. Johnson puts forward a core definition that the designer creates for a purpose, giving the example that in his view AIDS was created to punish immorality and is not caused by HIV, but such motives cannot be tested by scientific methods.\n\nAsserting the need for a designer of complexity also raises the question \"What designed the designer?\" Intelligent design proponents say that the question is irrelevant to or outside the scope of intelligent design. Richard Wein counters that \"...scientific explanations often create new unanswered questions. But, in assessing the value of an explanation, these questions are not irrelevant. They must be balanced against the improvements in our understanding which the explanation provides. Invoking an unexplained being to explain the origin of other beings (ourselves) is little more than question-begging. The new question raised by the explanation is as problematic as the question which the explanation purports to answer.\" Richard Dawkins sees the assertion that the designer does not need to be explained as a thought-terminating cliché. In the absence of observable, measurable evidence, the very question \"What designed the designer?\" leads to an infinite regression from which intelligent design proponents can only escape by resorting to religious creationism or logical contradiction.\n\nThe intelligent design movement is a direct outgrowth of the creationism of the 1980s. The scientific and academic communities, along with a U.S. federal court, view intelligent design as either a form of creationism or as a direct descendant that is closely intertwined with traditional creationism; and several authors explicitly refer to it as \"intelligent design creationism\".\n\nThe movement is headquartered in the Center for Science and Culture, established in 1996 as the creationist wing of the Discovery Institute to promote a religious agenda calling for broad social, academic and political changes. The Discovery Institute's intelligent design campaigns have been staged primarily in the United States, although efforts have been made in other countries to promote intelligent design. Leaders of the movement say intelligent design exposes the limitations of scientific orthodoxy and of the secular philosophy of naturalism. Intelligent design proponents allege that science should not be limited to naturalism and should not demand the adoption of a naturalistic philosophy that dismisses out-of-hand any explanation that includes a supernatural cause. The overall goal of the movement is to \"reverse the stifling dominance of the materialist worldview\" represented by the theory of evolution in favor of \"a science consonant with Christian and theistic convictions\".\n\nPhillip E. Johnson stated that the goal of intelligent design is to cast creationism as a scientific concept. All leading intelligent design proponents are fellows or staff of the Discovery Institute and its Center for Science and Culture. Nearly all intelligent design concepts and the associated movement are the products of the Discovery Institute, which guides the movement and follows its wedge strategy while conducting its \"Teach the Controversy\" campaign and their other related programs.\n\nLeading intelligent design proponents have made conflicting statements regarding intelligent design. In statements directed at the general public, they say intelligent design is not religious; when addressing conservative Christian supporters, they state that intelligent design has its foundation in the Bible. Recognizing the need for support, the Institute affirms its Christian, evangelistic orientation:\n\nBarbara Forrest, an expert who has written extensively on the movement, describes this as being due to the Discovery Institute's obfuscating its agenda as a matter of policy. She has written that the movement's \"activities betray an aggressive, systematic agenda for promoting not only intelligent design creationism, but the religious worldview that undergirds it.\"\n\nAlthough arguments for intelligent design by the intelligent design movement are formulated in secular terms and intentionally avoid positing the identity of the designer, the majority of principal intelligent design advocates are publicly religious Christians who have stated that, in their view, the designer proposed in intelligent design is the Christian conception of God. Stuart Burgess, Phillip E. Johnson, William A. Dembski, and Stephen C. Meyer are evangelical Protestants; Michael Behe is a Roman Catholic; and Jonathan Wells is a member of the Unification Church. Non-Christian proponents include David Klinghoffer, who is Jewish, Michael Denton and David Berlinski, who are agnostic, and Muzaffar Iqbal, a Pakistani-Canadian Muslim. Phillip E. Johnson has stated that cultivating ambiguity by employing secular language in arguments that are carefully crafted to avoid overtones of theistic creationism is a necessary first step for ultimately reintroducing the Christian concept of God as the designer. Johnson explicitly calls for intelligent design proponents to obfuscate their religious motivations so as to avoid having intelligent design identified \"as just another way of packaging the Christian evangelical message.\" Johnson emphasizes that \"...the first thing that has to be done is to get the Bible out of the discussion. ...This is not to say that the biblical issues are unimportant; the point is rather that the time to address them will be after we have separated materialist prejudice from scientific fact.\"\n\nThe strategy of deliberately disguising the religious intent of intelligent design has been described by William A. Dembski in \"The Design Inference\". In this work, Dembski lists a god or an \"alien life force\" as two possible options for the identity of the designer; however, in his book \"Intelligent Design: The Bridge Between Science and Theology\" (1999), Dembski states:\n\nDembski also stated, \"ID is part of God's general revelation [...] Not only does intelligent design rid us of this ideology materialism , which suffocates the human spirit, but, in my personal experience, I've found that it opens the path for people to come to Christ.\" Both Johnson and Dembski cite the Bible's Gospel of John as the foundation of intelligent design.\n\nBarbara Forrest contends such statements reveal that leading proponents see intelligent design as essentially religious in nature, not merely a scientific concept that has implications with which their personal religious beliefs happen to coincide. She writes that the leading proponents of intelligent design are closely allied with the ultra-conservative Christian Reconstructionism movement. She lists connections of (current and former) Discovery Institute Fellows Phillip E. Johnson, Charles B. Thaxton, Michael Behe, Richard Weikart, Jonathan Wells and Francis J. Beckwith to leading Christian Reconstructionist organizations, and the extent of the funding provided the Institute by Howard Ahmanson, Jr., a leading figure in the Reconstructionist movement.\n\nNot all creationist organizations have embraced the intelligent design movement. According to Thomas Dixon, \"Religious leaders have come out against ID too. An open letter affirming the compatibility of Christian faith and the teaching of evolution, first produced in response to controversies in Wisconsin in 2004, has now been signed by over ten thousand clergy from different Christian denominations across America. In 2006, the director of the Vatican Observatory, the Jesuit astronomer George Coyne, condemned ID as a kind of 'crude creationism' which reduced God to a mere engineer.\" Hugh Ross of Reasons to Believe, a proponent of Old Earth creationism, believes that the efforts of intelligent design proponents to divorce the concept from Biblical Christianity make its hypothesis too vague. In 2002, he wrote: \"Winning the argument for design without identifying the designer yields, at best, a sketchy origins model. Such a model makes little if any positive impact on the community of scientists and other scholars. [...] ...the time is right for a direct approach, a single leap into the origins fray. Introducing a biblically based, scientifically verifiable creation model represents such a leap.\"\n\nLikewise, two of the most prominent YEC organizations in the world have attempted to distinguish their views from those of the intelligent design movement. Henry M. Morris of the Institute for Creation Research (ICR) wrote, in 1999, that ID, \"even if well-meaning and effectively articulated, will not work! It has often been tried in the past and has failed, and it will fail today. The reason it won't work is because it is not the Biblical method.\" According to Morris: \"The evidence of intelligent design ... must be either followed by or accompanied by a sound presentation of true Biblical creationism if it is to be meaningful and lasting.\" In 2002, Carl Wieland, then of Answers in Genesis (AiG), criticized design advocates who, though well-intentioned, \"'left the Bible out of it'\" and thereby unwittingly aided and abetted the modern rejection of the Bible. Wieland explained that \"AiG's major 'strategy' is to boldly, but humbly, call the church back to its Biblical foundations ... [so] we neither count ourselves a part of this movement nor campaign against it.\"\n\nThe unequivocal consensus in the scientific community is that intelligent design is not science and has no place in a science curriculum. The U.S. National Academy of Sciences has stated that \"creationism, intelligent design, and other claims of supernatural intervention in the origin of life or of species are not science because they are not testable by the methods of science.\" The U.S. National Science Teachers Association and the American Association for the Advancement of Science have termed it pseudoscience. Others in the scientific community have denounced its tactics, accusing the ID movement of manufacturing false attacks against evolution, of engaging in misinformation and misrepresentation about science, and marginalizing those who teach it. More recently, in September 2012, Bill Nye warned that creationist views threaten science education and innovations in the United States.\n\nIn 2001, the Discovery Institute published advertisements under the heading \"A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism\", with the claim that listed scientists had signed this statement expressing skepticism:\n\nThe ambiguous statement did not exclude other known evolutionary mechanisms, and most signatories were not scientists in relevant fields, but starting in 2004 the Institute claimed the increasing number of signatures indicated mounting doubts about evolution among scientists. The statement formed a key component of Discovery Institute campaigns to present intelligent design as scientifically valid by claiming that evolution lacks broad scientific support, with Institute members continued to cite the list through at least 2011. As part of a strategy to counter these claims, scientists organised Project Steve, which gained more signatories named Steve (or variants) than the Institute's petition, and a counter-petition, \"A Scientific Support for Darwinism\", which quickly gained similar numbers of signatories.\n\nSeveral surveys were conducted prior to the December 2005 decision in \"Kitzmiller v. Dover School District\", which sought to determine the level of support for intelligent design among certain groups. According to a 2005 Harris poll, 10% of adults in the United States viewed human beings as \"so complex that they required a powerful force or intelligent being to help create them.\" Although Zogby polls commissioned by the Discovery Institute show more support, these polls suffer from considerable flaws, such as having a very low response rate (248 out of 16,000), being conducted on behalf of an organization with an expressed interest in the outcome of the poll, and containing leading questions.\n\nThe 2017 Gallup creationism survey found that 38% of adults in the United States hold the view that \"God created humans in their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years\" when asked for their views on the origin and development of human beings, which was noted as being at the lowest level in 35 years. Previously, a series of Gallup polls in the United States from 1982 through 2014 on \"Evolution, Creationism, Intelligent Design\" found support for \"human beings have developed over millions of years from less advanced formed of life, but God guided the process\" of between 31% and 40%, support for \"God created human beings in pretty much their present form at one time within the last 10,000 years or so\" varied from 40% to 47%, and support for \"human beings have developed over millions of years from less advanced forms of life, but God had no part in the process\" varied from 9% to 19%. The polls also noted answers to a series of more detailed questions.\n\nThere have been allegations that ID proponents have met discrimination, such as being refused tenure or being harshly criticized on the Internet. In the documentary film \"\", released in 2008, host Ben Stein presents five such cases. The film contends that the mainstream science establishment, in a \"scientific conspiracy to keep God out of the nation's laboratories and classrooms\", suppresses academics who believe they see evidence of intelligent design in nature or criticize evidence of evolution. Investigation into these allegations turned up alternative explanations for perceived persecution.\n\nThe film portrays intelligent design as motivated by science, rather than religion, though it does not give a detailed definition of the phrase or attempt to explain it on a scientific level. Other than briefly addressing issues of irreducible complexity, \"Expelled\" examines it as a political issue. The scientific theory of evolution is portrayed by the film as contributing to fascism, the Holocaust, communism, atheism, and eugenics.\n\n\"Expelled\" has been used in private screenings to legislators as part of the Discovery Institute intelligent design campaign for Academic Freedom bills. Review screenings were restricted to churches and Christian groups, and at a special pre-release showing, one of the interviewees, PZ Myers, was refused admission. The American Association for the Advancement of Science describes the film as dishonest and divisive propaganda aimed at introducing religious ideas into public school science classrooms, and the Anti-Defamation League has denounced the film's allegation that evolutionary theory influenced the Holocaust. The film includes interviews with scientists and academics who were misled into taking part by misrepresentation of the topic and title of the film. Skeptic Michael Shermer describes his experience of being repeatedly asked the same question without context as \"surreal\".\n\nAdvocates of intelligent design seek to keep God and the Bible out of the discussion, and present intelligent design in the language of science as though it were a scientific hypothesis. For a theory to qualify as scientific, it is expected to be:\n\n\nFor any theory, hypothesis or conjecture to be considered scientific, it must meet most, and ideally all, of these criteria. The fewer criteria are met, the less scientific it is; and if it meets only a few or none at all, then it cannot be treated as scientific in any meaningful sense of the word. Typical objections to defining intelligent design as science are that it lacks consistency, violates the principle of parsimony, is not scientifically useful, is not falsifiable, is not empirically testable, and is not correctable, dynamic, progressive or provisional.\n\nIntelligent design proponents seek to change this fundamental basis of science by eliminating \"methodological naturalism\" from science and replacing it with what the leader of the intelligent design movement, Phillip E. Johnson, calls \"theistic realism\". Intelligent design proponents argue that naturalistic explanations fail to explain certain phenomena and that supernatural explanations provide a very simple and intuitive explanation for the origins of life and the universe. Many intelligent design followers believe that \"scientism\" is itself a religion that promotes secularism and materialism in an attempt to erase theism from public life, and they view their work in the promotion of intelligent design as a way to return religion to a central role in education and other public spheres.\n\nIt has been argued that methodological naturalism is not an \"assumption\" of science, but a \"result\" of science well done: the God explanation is the least parsimonious, so according to Occam's razor, it cannot be a scientific explanation.\n\nThe failure to follow the procedures of scientific discourse and the failure to submit work to the scientific community that withstands scrutiny have weighed against intelligent design being accepted as valid science. The intelligent design movement has not published a properly peer-reviewed article supporting ID in a scientific journal, and has failed to publish supporting peer-reviewed research or data. The only article published in a peer-reviewed scientific journal that made a case for intelligent design was quickly withdrawn by the publisher for having circumvented the journal's peer-review standards. The Discovery Institute says that a number of intelligent design articles have been published in peer-reviewed journals, but critics, largely members of the scientific community, reject this claim and state intelligent design proponents have set up their own journals with peer review that lack impartiality and rigor, consisting entirely of intelligent design supporters.\n\nFurther criticism stems from the fact that the phrase \"intelligent\" design makes use of an assumption of the quality of an observable intelligence, a concept that has no scientific consensus definition. The characteristics of intelligence are assumed by intelligent design proponents to be observable without specifying what the criteria for the measurement of intelligence should be. Critics say that the design detection methods proposed by intelligent design proponents are radically different from conventional design detection, undermining the key elements that make it possible as legitimate science. Intelligent design proponents, they say, are proposing both searching for a designer without knowing anything about that designer's abilities, parameters, or intentions (which scientists do know when searching for the results of human intelligence), as well as denying the very distinction between natural/artificial design that allows scientists to compare complex designed artifacts against the background of the sorts of complexity found in nature.\n\nAmong a significant proportion of the general public in the United States, the major concern is whether conventional evolutionary biology is compatible with belief in God and in the Bible, and how this issue is taught in schools. The Discovery Institute's \"Teach the Controversy\" campaign promotes intelligent design while attempting to discredit evolution in United States public high school science courses. The scientific community and science education organizations have replied that there is no scientific controversy regarding the validity of evolution and that the controversy exists solely in terms of religion and politics.\n\nEugenie C. Scott, along with Glenn Branch and other critics, has argued that many points raised by intelligent design proponents are arguments from ignorance.\nIn the argument from ignorance, a lack of evidence for one view is erroneously argued to constitute proof of the correctness of another view. Scott and Branch say that intelligent design is an argument from ignorance because it relies on a lack of knowledge for its conclusion: lacking a natural explanation for certain specific aspects of evolution, we assume intelligent cause. They contend most scientists would reply that the unexplained is not unexplainable, and that \"we don't know yet\" is a more appropriate response than invoking a cause outside science. Particularly, Michael Behe's demands for ever more detailed explanations of the historical evolution of molecular systems seem to assume a false dichotomy, where either evolution or design is the proper explanation, and any perceived failure of evolution becomes a victory for design. Scott and Branch also contend that the supposedly novel contributions proposed by intelligent design proponents have not served as the basis for any productive scientific research.\n\nIn his conclusion to the Kitzmiller trial, Judge John E. Jones III wrote that \"ID is at bottom premised upon a false dichotomy, namely, that to the extent evolutionary theory is discredited, ID is confirmed.\" This same argument had been put forward to support creation science at the \"McLean v. Arkansas\" (1982) trial, which found it was \"contrived dualism\", the false premise of a \"two model approach\". Behe's argument of irreducible complexity puts forward negative arguments against evolution but does not make any positive scientific case for intelligent design. It fails to allow for scientific explanations continuing to be found, as has been the case with several examples previously put forward as supposed cases of irreducible complexity.\n\nIntelligent design proponents often insist that their claims do not require a religious component. However, various philosophical and theological issues are naturally raised by the claims of intelligent design.\n\nIntelligent design proponents attempt to demonstrate scientifically that features such as irreducible complexity and specified complexity could not arise through natural processes, and therefore required repeated direct miraculous interventions by a Designer (often a Christian concept of God). They reject the possibility of a Designer who works merely through setting natural laws in motion at the outset, in contrast to theistic evolution (to which even Charles Darwin was open). Intelligent design is distinct because it asserts repeated miraculous interventions in addition to designed laws. This contrasts with other major religious traditions of a created world in which God's interactions and influences do not work in the same way as physical causes. The Roman Catholic tradition makes a careful distinction between ultimate metaphysical explanations and secondary, natural causes.\n\nThe concept of direct miraculous intervention raises other potential theological implications. If such a Designer does not intervene to alleviate suffering even though capable of intervening for other reasons, some imply the designer is not omnibenevolent (see problem of evil and related theodicy).\n\nFurther, repeated interventions imply that the original design was not perfect and final, and thus pose a problem for any who believe that the Creator's work had been both perfect and final. Intelligent design proponents seek to explain the problem of poor design in nature by insisting that we have simply failed to understand the perfection of the design (for example, proposing that vestigial organs have unknown purposes), or by proposing that designers do not necessarily produce the best design they can, and may have unknowable motives for their actions.\n\nIntelligent design has also been characterized as a God-of-the-gaps argument, which has the following form:\n\nA God-of-the-gaps argument is the theological version of an argument from ignorance. A key feature of this type of argument is that it merely answers outstanding questions with explanations (often supernatural) that are unverifiable and ultimately themselves subject to unanswerable questions. Historians of science observe that the astronomy of the earliest civilizations, although astonishing and incorporating mathematical constructions far in excess of any practical value, proved to be misdirected and of little importance to the development of science because they failed to inquire more carefully into the mechanisms that drove the heavenly bodies across the sky. It was the Greek civilization that first practiced science, although not yet as a formally defined experimental science, but nevertheless an attempt to rationalize the world of natural experience without recourse to divine intervention. In this historically motivated definition of science any appeal to an intelligent creator is explicitly excluded for the paralysing effect it may have on scientific progress.\n\n\"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" was the first direct challenge brought in the United States federal courts against a public school district that required the presentation of intelligent design as an alternative to evolution. The plaintiffs successfully argued that intelligent design is a form of creationism, and that the school board policy thus violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nEleven parents of students in Dover, Pennsylvania, sued the Dover Area School District over a statement that the school board required be read aloud in ninth-grade science classes when evolution was taught. The plaintiffs were represented by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Americans United for Separation of Church and State (AU) and Pepper Hamilton LLP. The National Center for Science Education acted as consultants for the plaintiffs. The defendants were represented by the Thomas More Law Center. The suit was tried in a bench trial from September 26 to November 4, 2005, before Judge John E. Jones III. Kenneth R. Miller, Kevin Padian, Brian Alters, Robert T. Pennock, Barbara Forrest and John F. Haught served as expert witnesses for the plaintiffs. Michael Behe, Steve Fuller and Scott Minnich served as expert witnesses for the defense.\n\nOn December 20, 2005, Judge Jones issued his 139-page findings of fact and decision, ruling that the Dover mandate was unconstitutional, and barring intelligent design from being taught in Pennsylvania's Middle District public school science classrooms. On November 8, 2005, there had been an election in which the eight Dover school board members who voted for the intelligent design requirement were all defeated by challengers who opposed the teaching of intelligent design in a science class, and the current school board president stated that the board did not intend to appeal the ruling.\n\nIn his finding of facts, Judge Jones made the following condemnation of the \"Teach the Controversy\" strategy:\n\nJudge Jones himself anticipated that his ruling would be criticized, saying in his decision that:\n\nAs Jones had predicted, John G. West, Associate Director of the Center for Science and Culture, said:\n\nNewspapers have noted with interest that the judge is \"a Republican and a churchgoer\".\n\nSubsequently, the decision has been examined in a search for flaws and conclusions, partly by intelligent design supporters aiming to avoid future defeats in court. In its Winter issue of 2007, the \"Montana Law Review\" published three articles.\nIn the first, David K. DeWolf, John G. West and Casey Luskin, all of the Discovery Institute, argued that intelligent design is a valid scientific theory, the Jones court should not have addressed the question of whether it was a scientific theory, and that the Kitzmiller decision will have no effect at all on the development and adoption of intelligent design as an alternative to standard evolutionary theory. In the second Peter H. Irons responded, arguing that the decision was extremely well reasoned and spells the death knell for the intelligent design efforts to introduce creationism in public schools, while in the third, DeWolf, \"et al.\", answer the points made by Irons. However, fear of a similar lawsuit has resulted in other school boards abandoning intelligent design \"teach the controversy\" proposals.\n\nA number of anti-evolution bills have been introduced in the United States Congress and State legislatures since 2001, based largely upon language drafted by the Discovery Institute for the Santorum Amendment. Their aim has been to expose more students to articles and videos produced by advocates of intelligent design that criticise evolution. They have been presented as supporting \"academic freedom\", on the supposition that teachers, students, and college professors face intimidation and retaliation when discussing scientific criticisms of evolution, and therefore require protection. Critics of the legislation have pointed out that there are no credible scientific critiques of evolution, and an investigation in Florida of allegations of intimidation and retaliation found no evidence that it had occurred. The vast majority of the bills have been unsuccessful, with the one exception being Louisiana's Louisiana Science Education Act, which was enacted in 2008.\n\nIn April 2010, the American Academy of Religion issued \"Guidelines for Teaching About Religion in K‐12 Public Schools in the United States\", which included guidance that creation science or intelligent design should not be taught in science classes, as \"Creation science and intelligent design represent worldviews that fall outside of the realm of science that is defined as (and limited to) a method of inquiry based on gathering observable and measurable evidence subject to specific principles of reasoning.\" However, these worldviews as well as others \"that focus on speculation regarding the origins of life represent another important and relevant form of human inquiry that is appropriately studied in literature or social sciences courses. Such study, however, must include a diversity of worldviews representing a variety of religious and philosophical perspectives and must avoid privileging one view as more legitimate than others.\"\n\nIn June 2007, the Council of Europe's Committee on Culture, Science and Education issued a report, \"The dangers of creationism in education\", which states \"Creationism in any of its forms, such as 'intelligent design', is not based on facts, does not use any scientific reasoning and its contents are pathetically inadequate for science classes.\" In describing the dangers posed to education by teaching creationism, it described intelligent design as \"anti-science\" and involving \"blatant scientific fraud\" and \"intellectual deception\" that \"blurs the nature, objectives and limits of science\" and links it and other forms of creationism to denialism. On October 4, 2007, the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly approved a resolution stating that schools should \"resist presentation of creationist ideas in any discipline other than religion\", including \"intelligent design\", which it described as \"the latest, more refined version of creationism\", \"presented in a more subtle way\". The resolution emphasises that the aim of the report is not to question or to fight a belief, but to \"warn against certain tendencies to pass off a belief as science\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, public education includes religious education as a compulsory subject, and there are many faith schools that teach the ethos of particular denominations. When it was revealed that a group called Truth in Science had distributed DVDs produced by Illustra Media featuring Discovery Institute fellows making the case for design in nature, and claimed they were being used by 59 schools, the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) stated that \"Neither creationism nor intelligent design are taught as a subject in schools, and are not specified in the science curriculum\" (part of the National Curriculum, which does not apply to independent schools or to education in Scotland). The DfES subsequently stated that \"Intelligent design is not a recognised scientific theory; therefore, it is not included in the science curriculum\", but left the way open for it to be explored in religious education in relation to different beliefs, as part of a syllabus set by a local Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education. In 2006, the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority produced a \"Religious Education\" model unit in which pupils can learn about religious and nonreligious\nviews about creationism, intelligent design and evolution by natural selection.\n\nOn June 25, 2007, the UK Government responded to an e-petition by saying that creationism and intelligent design should not be taught as science, though teachers would be expected to answer pupils' questions within the standard framework of established scientific theories. Detailed government \"Creationism teaching guidance\" for schools in England was published on September 18, 2007. It states that \"Intelligent design lies wholly outside of science\", has no underpinning scientific principles, or explanations, and is not accepted by the science community as a whole. Though it should not be taught as science, \"Any questions about creationism and intelligent design which arise in science lessons, for example as a result of media coverage, could provide the opportunity to explain or explore why they are not considered to be scientific theories and, in the right context, why evolution is considered to be a scientific theory.\" However, \"Teachers of subjects such as RE, history or citizenship may deal with creationism and intelligent design in their lessons.\"\n\nThe British Centre for Science Education lobbying group has the goal of \"countering creationism within the UK\" and has been involved in government lobbying in the UK in this regard. Northern Ireland's Department for Education says that the curriculum provides an opportunity for alternative theories to be taught. The Democratic Unionist Party (DUP)—which has links to fundamentalist Christianity—has been campaigning to have intelligent design taught in science classes. A DUP former Member of Parliament, David Simpson, has sought assurances from the education minister that pupils will not lose marks if they give creationist or intelligent design answers to science questions. In 2007, Lisburn city council voted in favor of a DUP recommendation to write to post-primary schools asking what their plans are to develop teaching material in relation to \"creation, intelligent design and other theories of origin\".\n\nPlans by Dutch Education Minister Maria van der Hoeven to \"stimulate an academic debate\" on the subject in 2005 caused a severe public backlash. After the 2006 elections, she was succeeded by Ronald Plasterk, described as a \"molecular geneticist, staunch atheist and opponent of intelligent design\". As a reaction on this situation in the Netherlands, the Director General of the Flemish Secretariat of Catholic Education () in Belgium, , declared that: \"Catholic scientists already accepted the theory of evolution for a long time and that intelligent design and creationism doesn't belong in Flemish Catholic schools. It's not the tasks of the politics to introduce new ideas, that's task and goal of science.\"\n\nMuzaffar Iqbal, a notable Pakistani-Canadian Muslim, signed \"A Scientific Dissent From Darwinism\", a petition from the Discovery Institute. Ideas similar to intelligent design have been considered respected intellectual options among Muslims, and in Turkey many intelligent design books have been translated. In Istanbul in 2007, public meetings promoting intelligent design were sponsored by the local government, and David Berlinski of the Discovery Institute was the keynote speaker at a meeting in May 2007.\n\nIn 2011, the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) Bhaktivedanta Book Trust published an intelligent design book titled \"Rethinking Darwin: A Vedic Study of Darwinism and Intelligent Design\". The book included contributions from intelligent design advocates William A. Dembski, Jonathan Wells and Michael Behe as well as from Hindu creationists Leif A. Jensen and Michael Cremo.\n\nThe status of intelligent design in Australia is somewhat similar to that in the UK (see Education in Australia). In 2005, the Australian Minister for Education, Science and Training, Brendan Nelson, raised the notion of intelligent design being taught in science classes. The public outcry caused the minister to quickly concede that the correct forum for intelligent design, if it were to be taught, is in religion or philosophy classes. The Australian chapter of Campus Crusade for Christ distributed a DVD of the Discovery Institute's documentary \"Unlocking the Mystery of Life\" (2002) to Australian secondary schools. Tim Hawkes, the head of The King's School, one of Australia's leading private schools, supported use of the DVD in the classroom at the discretion of teachers and principals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5680279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5680279", "title": "International Action Network on Small Arms", "text": "International Action Network on Small Arms\n\nThe International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA) was incorporated on 30 May 2002 under the laws of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. IANSA was dissolved on 21 February 2015 in a \"Creditors voluntary liquidation\". However, IANSA still has an active website and it is soliciting money donations.\n\nIANSA was opposed to the proliferation and misuse of small arms and light weapons, and all ownership of firearms by anyone other than a government agency. IANSA supported efforts to make people safer by reducing demand for such weapons, improving firearms regulation and strengthening controls on arms transfers.\n\nIANSA's Women's Network is the only international network focused on the connections between gender, women's rights, small arms and armed violence.\n\nIANSA was involved in lobbying the 2001 United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms which produced an agreed programme of action. A UN Review Conference ended in July 2006 without further agreement. A subsequent meeting in 2008, agreed a substantive outcome document by a majority vote .\n\nIANSA, part of the Control Arms Campaign, promotes an international treaty regulating the conventional arms trade. A resolution to begin work on this Arms Trade Treaty was approved by the UN General Assembly in 2006.\n\nThe US National Rifle Association says IANSA is using the treaty as the first step in a ban on private gun ownership in the United States,\nand also of making it easier for the world's dictatorships to oppress their own citizens. The Gun Owners of America lobbying organisation has been equally vocal in its criticism of IANSA.\n\nIANSA is described as an umbrella network to which almost all national and regional gun control groups belong and is estimated to represent over 800 gun control organizations in 120 countries. IANSA opposes the use of firearms for self-defense. It advocates prohibiting the private possession of many kinds of small arms, including semi-automatic rifles and handguns.\nIt advocates that private citizens undergo a licensing process before they can possess any remaining firearms, and that legally possessed firearms be stored unloaded and away from ammunition.\n\nIANSA membership in Brazil includes the groups Instituto Sou da Paz and Viva Rio which campaigned for a complete ban on civilian gun sales in Brazil. The ban was subject to a national referendum in 2005. A week before the vote, IANSA coordinated an international day of support for the Brazilian ban, with demonstrations taking place in Britain, Italy, South Africa, and other countries. IANSA urged support of the ban to \"reinforce the movement in favor of gun control in other Latin American countries riddled with armed violence, and back the efforts to control private gun ownership at an international level.\"\n\nThe referendum was defeated by 64% of the voters. After massive increases in gun crime led to record death tolls from murder in 2016 and 2017, Jair Bolsonaro, winner of the 2018 Brazilian general election, announced that he intends to abolish the disarmament statute after he takes office in 2019 to allow law-abiding citizens to carry guns for defence.\n\nThe IANSA network includes Canadian gun control organizations such as the Coalition for Gun Control.\n\nThe Coalition for Gun Control is composed of various unions and NGOs, including the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police, the YWCA, Canadian Federation of University Women, Canadian Association of Emergency Physicians, the December 6th Foundation, Project Ploughshares, Canadian Labour Congress, Canadian Auto Workers, National Union of Public and General Employees, Big City Mayors, and others.\n\nRecently, IANSA lobbied against Bill C-391, which proposed to end the requirement for registration of ordinary rifles and shotguns while leaving the licensing provisions in the Firearms Act untouched.\n\nThe work of IANSA in the Philippines is carried out by the Center for Peace Education-Miriam College and Pax Christi-Pilipinas. Both are part of the Steering Committee of the Philippine Action Network to Control Arms (PHilANCA). CPE and Pax Christi annually commemorate the Global Week of Action against Gun Violence. Awareness-raising initiatives on small arms proliferation and gun violence are done during the GWA. CPE has also led the lobbying for an engendered Arms Trade Treaty. PhilANCA members which also include Amnesty International-Pilipinas and GZO Peace Institute lobby the government to fulfill its commitment to the UN Program of Action on SALW. PhilANCAhas also strongly lobbied for the adoption of an Arms Trade Treaty. PhilANCA members have joined government in weapons destruction and have visited weapons storage, among others. CPE regularly gives workshops to teachers and students on disarmament and arms control issues.\n\nIANSA membership in the United States includes gun control organizations such as the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, Legal Community Against Violence and the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence.\n\nIANSA’s work has been supported by funders including the Governments of Belgium, Sweden and Norway, as well as the Ford Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation, Compton Foundation, Ploughshares Fund, John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Samuel Rubin Foundation UNICEF, and Christian Aid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37192761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37192761", "title": "Joint State Political Directorate", "text": "Joint State Political Directorate\n\nThe Joint State Political Directorate (also translated as the All-Union State Political Administration and Unified State Political Directorate) was the secret police of the Soviet Union from 1923 to 1934. Its official name was \"Joint State Political Directorate under the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR\" (Russian: Объединённое государственное политическое управление при СНК СССР)\", Obyedinyonnoye gosudarstvennoye politicheskoye upravleniye pri SNK SSSR\", or ОГПУ (OGPU). \n\nWith the formation of the Soviet Union in December 1922, a unified organization was required to exercise control over state security throughout the new union. Thus, on November 15, 1923, the Soviet State Political Directorate left the Soviet NKVD and became the all-union Joint State Political Directorate. Felix Dzerzhinsky, chairman of the GPU, became the OGPU's first chief.\n\nLike the GPU before it, the OGPU operated - in theory - with more restraint than the original Bolshevik secret police, the Cheka of 1917-1922. The OGPU's powers increased greatly in 1926, when the was amended to include asection on anti-state terrorism. The provisions were vaguely written and very broadly interpreted. Even before then, OGPU had set up tribunals to try the most exceptional cases of terrorism, usually without calling any witnesses. In time, the OGPU's \"de facto\" powers grew even greater than those of the Cheka.\n\nThe GPU/OGPU achieved perhaps its most spectacular success with the Trust Operation of 1924–1925. OGPU agents contacted émigrés in western Europe and pretended to represent a large group, known as \"the Trust\", working to overthrow the communist régime. Exiled Russians gave \"the Trust\" large sums of money and supplies, as did foreign intelligence agencies. Soviet agents finally succeeded in luring one of the leading anticommunist operators, Sidney Reilly, into Russia to meet with the Trust. Once in the Soviet Union (September 1925), he was captured and killed. The Trust was then dissolved, having become a huge propaganda success.\n\nFrom 1927 to 1929 the OGPU engaged in intensive investigations of an opposition coup. Stalin issued a public decree that any and all opposition views should be considered dangerous and gave the GPU the authority to seek out hostile elements. That led in March 1928 to the Shakhty Trial, which saw the prosecution of a group of supposed industrial saboteurs allegedly involved in a hostile conspiracy. That would be the first of many trials during Stalin's rule. \n\nThe OGPU planned and set up the Gulag system. It also became the Soviet government's arm for the persecution of the Russian Orthodox Church, the Greek Catholics, the Latin Catholics, Islam and other religious organizations, in an operation headed by Yevgeny Tuchkov. The OGPU was also the principal secret-police agency responsible for the detection, arrest, and liquidation of anarchists and other dissident left-wing factions in the early Soviet Union.\n\nGPU brigades led Soviet forces in the 1934 Soviet invasion of Xinjiang. \n\nThe OGPU was reincorporated into the newly created all-union People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (NKVD) in July 1934, becoming its Main Directorate of State Security (GUGB). It subsequently became the more widely known Committee for State Security (KGB).\n\n"}
{"id": "4006482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4006482", "title": "Just watch me", "text": "Just watch me\n\n\"Just watch me\" is a phrase made famous by Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau on October 13, 1970, during the October Crisis. The term is still regularly used in Canadian political discussion.\n\nTrudeau, who had in previous years been a strong proponent of civil liberties, spoke of the need for drastic action to restore order in Quebec. When questioned by CBC reporter Tim Ralfe on how far he would go in the suspension of civil liberties to maintain order, Trudeau replied \"Well, just watch me.\"\n\nThree days later, he invoked the War Measures Act, which led to police action against many Quebec dissidents and great public controversy.\n\n\"\" is the title of a 1999 documentary by Catherine Annau. The phrase has also been the title of several biographies of Trudeau, e.g., Larry Zolf's \"Just Watch Me: Remembering Pierre Trudeau\" (1984); Ron Coleman's \"Just Watch Me: Trudeau's Tragic Legacy\" (2003); and the 2nd volume of John English's biography, \"Just Watch Me: The Life of Pierre Elliott Trudeau, 1968–2000\" (2009).\n\nIn March 2013, Trudeau's son Justin, while running for the Liberal Party leadership, made a rare gesture of evoking his father's memory during his campaign by repeating this phrase. It was in answer to a fellow airplane passenger's question in a handwritten note, asking Justin if he could beat Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper. The comment sparked a frenzy on Twitter, as well as mixed reaction from several commentators, some of whom saw the quote as a politically sensitive and risky one in Quebec. Two years later, Justin Trudeau became Prime Minister of Canada, beating Harper in federal election by a significant margin. Justin Trudeau is the first leader of a major political party in Canada to move from a party \"third-place\" in seats to a majority government.\n\nThe following is a partial transcript of the impromptu interview between Tim Ralfe of the CBC and Trudeau. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23454335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23454335", "title": "KGB", "text": "KGB\n\nThe KGB, an initialism for Komitet gosudarstvennoy bezopasnosti (), translated in English as Committee for State Security, was the main security agency for the Soviet Union from 1954 until its break-up in 1991. As a direct successor of such preceding agencies as Cheka, NKGB, NKVD and MGB, the committee was attached to the Council of Ministers. It was the chief government agency of \"union-republican jurisdiction\", acting as internal security, intelligence and secret police. Similar agencies were constituted in each of the republics of the Soviet Union aside from Russia, and consisted of many ministries, state committees and state commissions.\n\nThe agency was a military service governed by army laws and regulations, in the same fashion as the Soviet Army or MVD Internal Troops. While most of the KGB archives remain classified, two online documentary sources are available. Its main functions were foreign intelligence, counter-intelligence, operative-investigatory activities, guarding the State Border of the USSR, guarding the leadership of the Central Committee of the Communist Party and the Soviet Government, organization and ensuring of government communications as well as combating nationalism, dissent, and anti-Soviet activities.\n\nIn 1991, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the KGB was split into the Federal Security Service and the Foreign Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation.\n\nAfter breaking away from Georgia in the early 1990s with Russian help, the self-proclaimed Republic of South Ossetia established its own KGB (keeping this unreformed name). Russia's current head of state, Vladimir Putin, worked at the KGB in Leningrad.\n\nA \"Time\" magazine article in 1983 reported that the KGB was the world's most effective information-gathering organization. It operated legal and illegal espionage residencies in target countries where a \"legal resident\" gathered intelligence while based at the Soviet embassy or consulate, and, if caught, was protected from prosecution by diplomatic immunity. At best, the compromised spy was either returned to the Soviet Union or was declared \"persona non grata\" and expelled by the government of the target country. The \"illegal resident\" spied, unprotected by diplomatic immunity, and worked independently of Soviet diplomatic and trade missions, (\"cf.\" the non-official cover CIA officer). In its early history, the KGB valued illegal spies more than legal spies, because illegal spies infiltrated their targets with greater ease. The KGB residency executed four types of espionage: (i) political, (ii) economic, (iii) military-strategic, and (iv) disinformation, effected with \"active measures\" (PR Line), counter-intelligence and security (KR Line), and scientific–technological intelligence (X Line); quotidian duties included SIGINT (RP Line) and illegal support (N Line).\n\nThe KGB classified its spies as \"agents\" (intelligence providers) and \"controllers\" (intelligence relayers). The false-identity or \"legend\" assumed by a USSR-born illegal spy was elaborate, using the life of either a \"live double\" (participant to the fabrications) or a \"dead double\" (whose identity is tailored to the spy). The agent then substantiated his or her \"legend\" by living it in a foreign country, before emigrating to the target country, thus the sending of US-bound illegal residents via the Soviet embassy in Ottawa, Canada. Tradecraft included stealing and photographing documents, code-names, contacts, targets, and dead letter boxes, and working as a \"friend of the cause\" or as \"agents provocateurs\", who would infiltrate the target group to sow dissension, influence policy, and arrange kidnappings and assassinations.\n\nMindful of ambitious spy chiefs—and after deposing Premier Nikita Khrushchev—Secretary Leonid Brezhnev and the CPSU knew to manage the next over-ambitious KGB Chairman, Aleksandr Shelepin (1958–61), who facilitated Brezhnev's palace \"coup d'état\" against Khrushchev in 1964 (despite Shelepin not then being in the KGB). With political reassignments, Shelepin protégé Vladimir Semichastny (1961–67) was sacked as KGB Chairman, and Shelepin himself was demoted from chairman of the Committee of Party and State Control to Trade Union Council chairman.\n\nIn the 1980s, the glasnost liberalisation of Soviet society provoked KGB Chairman Vladimir Kryuchkov (1988–91) to lead the August 1991 Soviet coup d'état attempt to depose President Mikhail Gorbachev. The thwarted \"coup d'état\" ended the KGB on 6 November 1991. The KGB's main successors are the FSB (Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation) and the SVR (Foreign Intelligence Service).\n\nThe GRU (military intelligence) recruited the ideological agent Julian Wadleigh, who became a State Department diplomat in 1936. The NKVD's first US operation was establishing the legal residency of Boris Bazarov and the illegal residency of Iskhak Akhmerov in 1934. Throughout, the Communist Party USA (CPUSA) and its General Secretary Earl Browder, helped NKVD recruit Americans, working in government, business, and industry.\n\nOther important, low-level and high-level ideological agents were the diplomats Laurence Duggan and Michael Whitney Straight in the State Department, the statistician Harry Dexter White in the Treasury Department, the economist Lauchlin Currie (an FDR advisor), and the \"Silvermaster Group\", headed by statistician Greg Silvermaster, in the Farm Security Administration and the Board of Economic Warfare. Moreover, when Whittaker Chambers, formerly Alger Hiss's courier, approached the Roosevelt Government—to identify the Soviet spies Duggan, White, and others—he was ignored. Hence, during the Second World War (1939–45)—at the Tehran (1943), Yalta (1945), and Potsdam (1945) conferences—Big Three Ally Joseph Stalin of the USSR, was better informed about the war affairs of his US and UK allies than they were about his.\n\nSoviet espionage was at its most successful in collecting scientific and technological intelligence about advances in jet propulsion, radar and encryption, which impressed Moscow, but stealing atomic secrets was the capstone of NKVD espionage against Anglo–American science and technology. To wit, British Manhattan Project team physicist Klaus Fuchs (GRU 1941) was the main agent of the Rosenberg spy ring. In 1944, the New York City residency infiltrated top secret Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico by recruiting Theodore Hall, a 19-year-old Harvard physicist.\n\nThe KGB failed to rebuild most of its US illegal resident networks. The aftermath of the Second Red Scare (1947–57) and the crisis in the CPUSA hampered recruitment. The last major illegal resident, Rudolf Abel (Vilyam Genrikhovich Fisher/\"Willie\" Vilyam Fisher), was betrayed by his assistant, Reino Häyhänen, in 1957.\n\nRecruitment then emphasised mercenary agents, an approach especially successful in scientific and technical espionage, since private industry practised lax internal security, unlike the US Government. One notable KGB success occurred in 1967,with the walk-in recruitment of US Navy Chief Warrant Officer John Anthony Walker. Over eighteen years, Walker enabled Soviet Intelligence to decipher some one million US Navy messages, and track the US Navy.\n\nIn the late Cold War, the KGB was successful with intelligence coups in the cases of the mercenary walk-in recruits FBI counterspy Robert Hanssen (1979–2001) and CIA Soviet Division officer Aldrich Ames (1985–1994).\n\nIt was Cold War policy for the KGB of the Soviet Union and the secret services of the satellite states to extensively monitor public and private opinion, internal subversion and possible revolutionary plots in the Soviet Bloc. In supporting those Communist governments, the KGB was instrumental in crushing the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, and the Prague Spring of \"Socialism with a Human Face\", in 1968 Czechoslovakia.\n\nDuring the Hungarian revolt, KGB chairman Ivan Serov personally supervised the post-invasion \"normalization\" of the country. In consequence, KGB monitored the satellite state populations for occurrences of \"harmful attitudes\" and \"hostile acts;\" yet, stopping the Prague Spring, deposing a nationalist Communist government, was its greatest achievement.\n\nThe KGB prepared the Red Army's route by infiltrating to Czechoslovakia many illegal residents disguised as Western tourists. They were to gain the trust of and spy upon the most outspoken proponents of Alexander Dubček's new government. They were to plant subversive evidence, justifying the USSR's invasion, that right-wing groups—aided by Western intelligence agencies—were going to depose the Communist government of Czechoslovakia. Finally, the KGB prepared hardline, pro-USSR members of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (CPC), such as Alois Indra and Vasiľ Škultéty, to assume power after the Red Army's invasion.\n\nThe KGB's Czech success in the 1960s was matched with the failed suppression of the Solidarity labour movement in 1980s Poland. The KGB had forecast political instability consequent to the election of Archbishop of Kraków Karol Wojtyla as the first Polish Pope, John Paul II, whom they had categorised as \"subversive\" because of his anti-Communist sermons against the one-party PUWP régime. Despite its accurate forecast of crisis, the Polish United Workers' Party (PUWP) hindered the KGB's destroying the nascent Solidarity-backed political movement, fearing explosive civil violence if they imposed the KGB-recommended martial law. Aided by their Polish counterpart, the Służba Bezpieczeństwa (SB), the KGB successfully infiltrated spies to Solidarity and the Catholic Church, and in Operation X co-ordinated the declaration of martial law with Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski and the Polish Communist Party; however, the vacillating, conciliatory Polish approach blunted KGB effectiveness—and Solidarity then fatally weakened the Communist Polish government in 1989.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the KGB actively sought to combat \"ideological subversion\" – anti-communist political and religious ideas and the dissidents who promoted them – which was generally dealt with as a matter of national security in discouraging influence of hostile foreign powers. After denouncing Stalinism in his secret speech On the Personality Cult and its Consequences in 1956, head of state Nikita Khrushchev lessened suppression of \"ideological subversion\". As a result, critical literature re-emerged, including the novel \"One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich\" (1962), by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, who was code-named PAUK (\"spider\") by the KGB. After Khrushchev's deposition in 1964, Leonid Brezhnev reverted the State and KGB to actively harsh suppression; house searches to seize documents and the continual monitoring of dissidents became routine again. To wit, in 1965, such a search-and-seizure operation yielded Solzhenitsyn manuscripts of \"slanderous fabrications\", and the subversion trial of the novelists Andrei Sinyavsky and Yuli Daniel; Sinyavsky (alias \"Abram Tertz\"), and Daniel (alias \"Nikolai Arzhak\"), were captured after a Moscow literary-world informant told KGB when to find them at home.\n\nIn 1967, the campaign of this suppression increased under new KGB Chairman Yuri Andropov. After suppressing the Prague Spring, KGB Chairman Andropov established the Fifth Directorate to monitor dissension and eliminate dissenters. He was especially concerned with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov, \"Public Enemy Number One\". Andropov failed to expel Solzhenitsyn before 1974; but did internally exile Sakharov to Gorky in 1980. The KGB failed to prevent Sakharov's collecting his Nobel Peace Prize in 1975, but did prevent Yuri Orlov collecting his Nobel Prize in 1978; Chairman Andropov supervised both operations.\n\nKGB dissident-group infiltration featured \"agents provocateur\" pretending \"sympathy to the cause\", smear campaigns against prominent dissidents, and show trials; once imprisoned, the dissident endured KGB interrogators \"and\" sympathetic informant cell-mates. In the event, Mikhail Gorbachev's glasnost policies lessened persecution of dissidents; he was effecting some of the policy changes they had been demanding since the 1970s.\n\nAccording to declassified documents, the KGB aggressively recruited former Nazi intelligence officers after the war. The KGB used them to penetrate the West German intelligence service.\n\nIn the 1960s, acting upon the information of KGB defector Anatoliy Golitsyn, the CIA counter-intelligence chief James Jesus Angleton believed KGB had moles in two key places—the counter-intelligence section of CIA and the FBI's counter-intelligence department—through whom they would know of, and control, US counter-espionage to protect the moles and hamper the detection and capture of other Communist spies. Moreover, KGB counter-intelligence vetted foreign intelligence sources, so that the moles might \"officially\" approve an anti-CIA double agent as trustworthy. In retrospect, the captures of the moles Aldrich Ames and Robert Hanssen proved that Angleton, though ignored as over-aggressive, was correct, despite the fact that it cost him his job at CIA, which he left in 1975.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, the KGB tried to secretly buy three banks in northern California to gain access to high-technology secrets. Their efforts were thwarted by the CIA. The banks were Peninsula National Bank in Burlingame, the First National Bank of Fresno, and the Tahoe National Bank in South Lake Tahoe. These banks had made numerous loans to advanced technology companies and had many of their officers and directors as clients. The KGB used the Moscow Narodny Bank Limited to finance the acquisition, and an intermediary, Singaporean businessman Amos Dawe, as the frontman.\n\nOn 2 February 1973, the Politburo, which was led by Yuri Andropov at the time, demanded that KGB members influence Bangladesh (which was then newly formed) where Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was scheduled to win parliamentary elections. During that time, the Soviet secret service tried very hard to ensure support for his party and his allies and even predicted an easy victory for him. In June 1975, Mujib formed a new party called \"BAKSAL\" and created a one-party state. Three years later, the KGB in that region increased from 90 to 200, and by 1979 printed more than 100 newspaper articles. In these articles, the KGB officials accused Ziaur Rahman, popularly known as \"Zia\", and his regime of having ties with the United States.\n\nIn August 1979, the KGB accused some officers who were arrested in Dhaka in an overthrow attempt, and by October, Andropov approved the fabrication of a letter in which he stated that Muhammad Ghulam Tawab, an Air Vice-Marshal at the time, was the main plotter, which led the Bangladesh, Indian and Sri Lankan press to believe that he was an American spy. Under Andropov's command, Service A, a KGB division, falsified the information in a letter to Moudud Ahmed in which it said that he was supported by the American government and by 1981 even sent a letter accusing the Reagan administration of plotting to overthrow President Zia and his regime. The letter also mentioned that after Mujib was assassinated the United States contacted Khondaker Mostaq Ahmad to replace him as a short-term President. When the election happened in the end of 1979, the KGB made sure that the Bangladesh Nationalist Party would win. The party received 207 out of 300 seats, but the Zia regime did not last long, falling on 29 May 1981 when after numerous escapes, Zia was assassinated in Chittagong.\n\nThe KGB started infiltrating Afghanistan as early as 27 April 1978. During that time, the Afghan Communist Party was planning the overthrow of the imperially appointed Prime Minister Mohammed Daoud Khan. Under the leadership of Major General Sayed Mohammad Gulabzoy and Muhammad Raficode named Mammad and Niruz respectivelythe Soviet secret service learned of the imminent uprising. Two days after, the uprising, Nur Muhammad Taraki, leader of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan, issued a notice of concern to the Soviet ambassador Alexander Puzanov and the resident of Kabul-based KGB embassy Viliov Osadchy that they could have staged a coup three days earlier hence the warning. On that, both Puzanov and Osadchy dismissed Taraki's complaint and reported it to Moscow, which broke a 30-year contract with him soon after.\n\nThe centre then realized that it was better for them to deal with a more competent agent, which at the time was Babrak Karmal, who later accused Nur Muhammad Taraki of taking bribes and even having secretly contacted the United States embassy in Kabul. On that, the centre again refused to listen and instructed him to take resident position in the Kabul residency by 1974. On 30 April 1978, Taraki, despite being cut off from any support, led the coup which later became known as April Revolution, and became the country's President, along with Hafizullah Amin being Deputy-Prime Minister and Vice-President. On 5 December of that same year, Taraki compared the April Revolt to the Russian Revolution, which struck Vladimir Kryuchkov, the FCD chief of that time.\n\nOn 27 March 1979, after losing the city of Herat, Amin became the next Prime Minister, and by 27 July became Minister of Defence as well. The centre though was concerned of his powers since the same month he issued them a complaint about lack of funds and demanded US$400,000,000. Furthermore, it was discovered that Amin had a master's degree from Columbia University, and that he preferred to communicate in English instead of Russian. Unfortunately for Moscow's intelligence services, Amin succeeded Taraki and by 16 September Radio Kabul announced that the PDPA received a fake request from Taraki concerning health issues among the party members. On that, the centre accused him of \"terrorist\" activities and expelled him from the Communist Party.\n\nThe following day General Boris Ivanov, who was behind the mission in Kabul along with General Lev Gorelov and Deputy Defense Minister Ivan Pavlovsky, visited Amin to congratulate him on his election to power. On the same day the KGB decided to imprison Sayed Gulabzoy as well as Muhammad Watanjar and Asadullah Sarwari but while in captivity and under an investigation all three denied the allegation that the current Minister of Defence was an American secret agent. The denial of claims was passed on to Yuri Andropov and Leonid Brezhnev, who as the main chiefs of the KGB proposed operation Raduga to save the life of Gulabzoy and Watanjar and send them to Tashkent from Bagram airbase by giving them fake passports. With that and a sealed container in which an almost breathless Sarwari was laying, they came to Tashkent on 19 September.\n\nDuring the continued investigation in Tashkent, the three were put under surveillance in one of the rooms for as long as four weeks where they were investigated for the reliability of their claims by the KGB. Soon after, they were satisfied with the results and sent them to Bulgaria for a secret retreat. On 9 October, the Soviet secret service had a meeting in which Bogdanov, Gorelov, Pavlonsky and Puzanov were the main chiefs who were discussing what to do with Amin who was very harsh at the meeting. After the two-hour meeting they began to worry that Amin will establish an Islamic Republic in Afghanistan and decided to seek a way to put Karmal back in. They brought him and three other ministers secretly to Moscow during which time they discussed how to put him back in power. The decision was to fly him back to Bagram airbase by 13 December. Four days later, Amin's nephew, Asadullah, was taken to Moscow by the KGB for acute food poisoning treatment.\n\nOn 19 November 1979, the KGB had a meeting on which they discussed Operation Cascade, which was launched earlier that year. The operation carried out bombings with the help of GRU and FCD. On 27 December, the centre received news of the Darul Aman Palace, that KGB Special Forces Alpha and Zenith Group, supported by the 154th OSN GRU, also known as \"Muslim battalion\" and paratroopers from the 345th Guards Airborne Regiment stormed the Tajbeg Palace in Afghanistan and killed Afghan President Hafizullah Amin and his 100–150 personal guards. His 11-year-old son died due to shrapnel wounds. The Soviets installed Babrak Karmal as Amin's successor. Several other government buildings were seized during the operation, including the Ministry of Interior building, the Internal Security (KHAD) building, and the General Staff building (Darul Aman Palace). Out of the 54 KGB operators that assaulted the palace, 5 were killed in action, including Colonel Grigori Boyarinov, and 32 were wounded. Alpha Group veterans call this operation one of the most successful in the group's history. In June 1981, there were 370 members in the Afghan-controlled KGB intelligence service throughout the nation which were under the command of Ahmad Shah Paiya and had received all the training they need in the Soviet Union. By May 1982 the Ministry of Internal Affairs was set up in Afghanistan under the command of KHAD. In 1983 Boris Voskoboynikov became the next head of the KGB while Leonid Kostromin became his Deputy Minister.\n\nOn 18 August 1991, Chairman of the KGB Vladimir Kryuchkov, along with seven other Soviet leaders, formed the State Committee on the State of Emergency and attempted to overthrow the government of the Soviet Union. The purpose of the attempted coup d'état was to preserve the integrity of the Soviet Union and the constitutional order. President Mikhail Gorbachev was arrested and ineffective attempts were made to seize power. Within two days, the attempted coup collapsed.\n\nThe KGB was succeeded by the Federal Counterintelligence Service (FSK) of Russia, which was succeeded by the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB).\n\nThe republican affiliation offices almost completely duplicated the structural organization of the main KGB.\n\nThe Chairman of the KGB, First Deputy Chairmen (1–2), Deputy Chairmen (4–6). Its policy Collegium comprised a chairman, deputy chairmen, directorate chiefs, and republican KGB chairmen.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "424762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424762", "title": "Kissing hands", "text": "Kissing hands\n\nTo kiss hands is a constitutional term used in the United Kingdom to refer to the formal installation of Crown-appointed British government ministers to their office.\n\nIn the past, it referred to the requirement that the office-holder actually kiss the hands of the Sovereign as a symbol of personal fealty and loyalty to the Sovereign, that fealty and loyalty being a requirement to serve in the King's or Queen's government.\nIn modern times, office-holders are not expected physically to kiss the hands of the Sovereign before assuming the role. Simply being received by the Queen is taken to validate the selection, with this meeting being described in the Court Circular as \"kissing hands\". The invitation issued to a party leader to form a government is sometimes still described as \"an invitation to kiss hands\". The metaphorical kissing of hands (i.e. the appointment) does not legally take place until the subsequent meeting of the Privy Council, when the new minister is formally appointed as a member of the Council.\n\nWhen appointing a Secretary of State (the top rank in the UK government), the protocol also involves the delivery by the Sovereign of the seals of office into the hands of the appointee. This is also valid for other officers who are keepers of seals, such as the Lord Privy Seal or the Lord Chancellor, who is also keeper of the Great Seal of the United Kingdom.\n\nOrdinarily the ceremony will take place in Buckingham Palace, but it has been known to happen in Windsor Castle or Balmoral Castle. More unusually, when H. H. Asquith took the premiership after the ailing Henry Campbell-Bannerman's resignation in April 1908, King Edward VII controversially summoned Asquith to Biarritz, France, where he was on holiday at the time.\n"}
{"id": "51332575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51332575", "title": "Ksar Hellal Congress", "text": "Ksar Hellal Congress\n\nThe Ksar Hellal Congress was the first and founding congress of the Neo Destour party. The 1934 Neo Destour Congress was organized by the secessionist members of the Destour party, in Ksar Hellal, on March 2, 1934. It ended, that very night, with the creation of a new political party.\n\nUpon the weakening of the Destour, that adopted a \"shy\" policy towards the Residence, the colonial French administration in Tunisia, a new generation of provincial thirties, with a European education and a close relationship with the French socialists, emerged. Mainly compounded of Habib Bourguiba, Mahmoud El Materi, Bahri Guiga, Tahar Sfar and M'hamed Bourguiba, it acquired a huge popularity thanks to its bold articles in newspapers, such as \"L'Action Tunisienne\". However, the differences they had with the elders of the party led them to resign from the executive committee, the party's leadership, following the Tunisian naturalization issue.\n\nThe congress was held on March 2, 1934 to discuss the continuity of this youth's activism which ended with the founding of their own new political party, the Neo Destour, starting, thanks to its new methods, the renewel of the Tunisian nationalism and its movement.\n\nThere were numerous reasons leading to the birth of the Neo Destour: The Great Depression and its impact in Tunisia, in the early 1930s, the reactions denouncing the international eucharistic congress of Carthage, held to celebrate the hundredth anniversary of the French colonization of Algeria, the Tunisian naturalization issue but mainly the policy and behavior adopted by the Destour towards these events. Indeed, the party activism decreased in the midst of the 1920s, precisely on January 29, 1926, when \"scoundrel decrees\" were enacted by the Residence, the French colonial administration. In result, the first exclusively Tunisian labour union, the General Confederation of Tunisian Workers (GCTW), founded by Mohamed Ali El Hammi, was dissolved. Furthermore, nationalist newspapers such as \"Ifriqiya\", \"Al-Asr\", \"Al Jadid\" and \"Le Libéral\" were prohibited. The party soon bursted in pieces with the departure of Hassen Guellaty and Mohamed Noomane, who founded the Reformist Destourian Party, but also Farhat Ben Ayed, who created the Independent Destourian Party. In this context, a new generation of nationalists emerged.\n\nIn the early 1930s, a new generation of nationalists emerged and joined the Destour party. Deeply marked with the Eucharistic Congress of 1930, considered as a \"violation of Islam lands by Christianity\" and a revolting shame to the Tunisian people, the new generation feared the celebration of the protectorate's 50th anniversary, the next year. In this context, the Destour leadership gathered in \"L'hôtel d'Orient\". Habib Bourguiba, Mahmoud El Materi, Bahri Guiga and Tahar Sfar took part in the meeting. It was decided to support \"La Voix du Tunisien\", a nationalist daily newspaper managed by Chedly Khairallah. Bourguiba, El Materi, Guiga and Sfar decided to join the drafting committee of the paper and stood out from their elders with their daring to challenge the protectorate. Bourguiba wrote: \n\nWith the originality with which they approached problems, the young team made \"La Voix du Tunisien\" a popular newspaper. They soon stood out from their elders of the Destour by establishing a new thinking: They were in favor of the inviolability of the national personality and political sovereignty of the Tunisian people plus a gradual emancipation of the country, by advocating for a nationalism that fought against a regime and not against civilization. But their new thinking soon started a fight with Khairallah about the management of the newspaper. It ended with the resignation of the five editors who decided to found their own paper. A drafting committee gathering Habib and M'hamed Bourguiba, Guiga, Sfar, El Materi and Ali Bouhajeb, a pharmacist friend, created \"L'Action Tunisienne\". Its first edition was published on November 1, 1932. Disappointed in the resigned moderation of their elders, the team worked on defending lower classes and expressing colonial inequalities.\n\nWith the economic crisis that worsened and the popularity of the new generation, the young nationalists felt they needed a good reason to revive the national movement, weakened by the 1926 repression, on new basis. They benefited from the Tunisian naturalization issue that restarted in the early 1930s. Previously, the nationalists protested strongly against the December 20, 1923, laws that favored the access of non-French protectorate inhabitants to French citizenship. The discontent following the enactment of these measures receded but reappeared in the beginning of 1933. On December 31, 1932, upon the announcement of a Muslim naturalized's death in Bizerte, Mohamed Chaabane, individuals gathered in the Muslim cemetery to stop the interment of the dead. They obtained the support of the city's mufti who delivered a fatwa prohibiting naturalized citizens to be buried in Muslim cemeteries.\n\nBourguiba decided to start a press campaign in \"L'Action\", reprised by many other nationalist newspapers. In order to calm down the turmoil that spread all over the country every time a naturalized died, the Residence asked a fatwa from the Sharaa court, in April. But it resolved nothing: The sheikhs maintained the apostasy of the naturalized but affirmed that if he repented, even verbally, and that before his death, his interment in Muslim lands would be granted. This decision angered nationalists who opposed the fatwa and started riots in Kairouan and Tunis. The campaign led by the new generation of nationalists pressured the Residence to take a two-faced decision: Firstly, it yield to the nationalists stating that naturalized should be buried in special cemeteries. Then, resident-general, François Manceron enacted \"scoundrel decrees\", granting him the right to imprison at his will any nationalist and suspend newspapers and associations \"hostile to the protectorate\". Despite that, the victory over the Residence led to the election of El Materi, the Bourguiba brothers, Guiga and Sfar to the executive committee of the party during the extraordinary Destour congress held on May 12 and May 13, 1933.\n\nBut the maintained turmoil led the Residence to censor nationalist press and suspend the Destour, on May 31. Bourguiba, deprived of means of expression, benefited from the events of August 8, when riots started in Monastir upon the forced interment of a naturalized's child. The fight between law enforcement and inhabitants ended up with one dead and many injured. Bourguiba then convinced Monastirian notables to choose him as their lawyer in order to defend their case. On September 4, without informing the Destour about his initiative, Bourguiba led a protest delegation to the bey. In response, the party leadership decided to inflict a blame to the young activist, to which Bourguiba responded with his resignation from the party on September 9.\n\nThe rest of \"L'Action\" team soon conflicted with the Destour elders. The differences between the groups were not only age but also ideological and methodical. Peyrouton, the new resident-general attempted to calm down the situation by announcing social and economic reforms. By the end of October 1933, he met with a delegation of the Destour executive committee, led by Ahmed Essafi and comprising Salah Farhat, Mohieddine Klibi, Ali Bouhajeb, Moncef Mestiri and Bahri Guiga. He wanted to offer them to join an advisory committee of Tunisian reforms that would stop the transfer, to colonial land agencies, lands mortgaged by farmers reduced to misery. In order to avoid opposition, he asked them to keep these arrangements confidential. At the end of the interview, the delegation members gathered in Moncef Mestiri's house in La Marsa to agree on the portion of the interview to be made public. Guiga, who was a delegation member refused to yiel to \"game of the resident\" and joined his friends in Tunis to inform them about what had been negotiated. The very evening, he told the manager of \"Le Petit Matin\" about the talks with the resident-general.\n\nThe news fastly spread in the city which angered Peyrouton and the Destour leadership, mainly Essafi who asked for the gathering of the executive committee on November 17 to force Guiga's exclusion from the party. On December 7, solidary with their friend, M'hamed Bourguiba, El Materi and Tahar Sfar resigned from the executive committee which refused to reconsider its decision. Habib Bourguiba decided to join the \"rebel faction\", gathered under El Materi's commands, to start an explanation campaign to the activists. Called \"traitors\" by the Destour, the incident delighted the Residence, as it divided the nationalists.\n\nIn order to explain themselves to the people, Sfar, Bourguiba and Guiga decided to start a campaign in Ksar Hellal and Moknine, seriously hit by the economic-social crisis. At their arrival, they were subject to the hostility of the inhabitants because of the Destour propaganda to discredit them. However, they found support in Ahmad Ayad, a Ksar Hellal notable, who invited them to hold a gathering and explain themselves. The meeting happened in his house on January 3, 1934. Soon, their speeches and determination to act proved to be successful and pleased the inhabitants. Belgacem Gnaoui, then leader of the carter union and who would become the General secretary of the General Confederation of Tunisian Workers, testified that \"at the slightest sign, we were ready to close our shops and march in the streets [...] Young people urged us to protest strikes. On day, Ahmad Essafi, General secretary of the Destour, convened a gathering in the Andalous quarter. He was violently attacked by the participants who accused him of enjoying the comfort while we were starving in our hovels\".\n\nMeanwhile, the Destour executive committee pursued its campaign to discredit the new generation of nationalists. In response, Bourguiba replied with more violence, aggression and contempt in his speeches. As for El Materi, they should not stoop to the elders' level; He advocated for reforming the party's methods in peace and understanding or split up from the movement and found their own one. He stated: \"My opinion is that we should let them cry in the wilderness, only a few people took them seriously\". Sfar also criticized the Destour leadership writing: \"Too much conservatism harms society because it is a factor of immobility and death; it solidifies everything, destroyes all initiative spirit, opposes any vivifying and creating force and therefore stops any progress, breaks the momentum and growth of individuals and groups\".\n\nSince then, the number of Destourian representations asking for an extraordinary explanatory congress increased. They addressed letters to Mohieddine Klibi who responded with a revealing stiffening of the danger the young nationalists were for the Destourian \"establishment\". The idea spread across the country mainly in Tunis, Menzel Temime, Moknine, Gafsa and Bizerte. On the other hand, the young team pursued its tour and asked for a loyal showdown with their opponents: An interim committee including El Materi, the Bourguibas, Sfar and Guiga was formed and decided to organize an extraordinary congress on March 2, 1934, in Ksar Hellal to settle the disagreement. They obtained the support of M'hamed Chenik and many of his major clients who guaranteed the smooth progress of the event. Bourguiba drafted the convening letters inviting delegates to participate in order to settle the dispute arose within the Executive committee, develop the propaganda and action methods of the dissenting team. The establishment of a new political movement was even considered.\n\nOn March 2, 1934, 48 members of the Destour attended the event, mostly originating in the Sahel: 19 delegates represented the Sahel in Ksar Hellal while 9 for Tunis and 20 for the rest of the country. Even though invited, neither the members of the executive committee nor that of the cells that remained loyal to it had sent representatives.\n\nDuring the congress, Sfar denounced the Destour leadership's methods that he judged elitist, accusing them to maintain the people into ignorance. The delegates of the South, such as Metouia and Gafsa, supported these words and confirmed them. Bourguiba then asked the attendees to adjudicate and choose the \"men that will have to defend the country liberation on your behalf\". For the first time, he stated the Destour leadership of being \"ancient\" and declared: \"We have neither the same conception nor the same views in terms of means of action\". The congress proceeded with the proposal of Habib Bougafta, delegate of Bizerte, to declare forfeiture of the executive committee while Belhassine Jrad, delegate of Metouia, required their exclusion from the party.\n\nOnce the decisions made, Sfar chaired the adoption of the internal regulation of the new party, making it a strongly hierarchical pyramidal organization, composed by local cells that answer to the Political Office of the party via regional committees and a national Council. The attendees withdrew their endorsement of the executive committee declared \"unable to defend the claims of the Tunisian people\". Thus, it was replaced within the new party with a Political Office presided by Mahmoud El Materi while Habib Bourguiba was designated General secretary.\n\nA national council (\"Majlis Milli\") was established and composed by 19 delegates, such as Youssef Rouissi and Hédi Chekir. It decided to maintain all the delegates as head of their regions, adopting as a strategy to be in the continuity of the nationalist movement while marginalizing the former leadership.\n\nOnce the party founded, its young leaders made it a major asset to express their nationalist claims. In order to do that, the party had to stand out and acquire a major position within the National movement. The economic crisis was favorable to that. Plus, their new thinking shaped the party policy that did not systematically oppose the Residence decisions: In March 1934, Peyrouton adopted deflationary measures to ease the burden of the Tunisian budget and trim much of the French officials' privileges, something that had always been requested by the nationalists. On March 31, Bourguiba decided to publicly endorse this decision, arguing that an initiative responding to nationalist aspirations should be applauded.\n\nBut the freshly constituted party still had to impose itself on the political stage, spread its ideology and rally the supporters of a still-powerful Destour. It also had to convince lower classes that the Neo Destour was their defender, inviting them to join and recover a \"dignity manhandled by half a century of protectorate\". In order to do so, tours were organized throughout the country, which drew a distinction between the new and old parties in their communication field. Despite its significant influence, the Destour did not succeed in mobilizing the illiterate masses whose political weight was still not existing. Cells were created and a structure was formed all around the country, making the Neo Destour a powerful engine more effective than all the preceding nationalist formations. If the elders addressed the colonial power to express their requests, the secessionists addressed the people. To reach these aims, Tahar Sfar created \"El Amal\", an Arabic version of \"L'Action Tunisienne\", which became the party's official paper.\n\nAfter the \"conquest of the people\", the political office tried to reach international support. The party sensitized the French left wing to the requests of colonized people. It presented itself as aspiring to acquire a part of the Regence sovereignty, without being anti-French. They gained the support of Félicien Challaye who visited the country with Bourguiba, while on tour. After his return to France, he publicly supported the Neo Destour arguing that he was convinced in the seriousness, the francophilia and the moderation of the young nationalists.\n\nA month after the congress, the resident-general, Marcel Peyrouton tried to benefit from the split-up with the Destour, seeing in it a mean to weaken the nationalist movement. Thus, he convened Mahmoud El Materi to whom he proposed a doctor position in Sadiki Hospital and, upon his refusal, proposed to appoint him as the hospital head. El Materi saw in this an attempted corruption and declared to the resident: \"Be aware, sir, that I am neither to be bought nor sold\". Finding no compromise with the young neo-Destourians, Peyrouton called for the French Rally of Tunisia to show a strong opposition to the new party: \"I will cross Tunisia like a hurricane\", he declared.\n\nFavorable to the Residence's appeal, the French of Tunisia protested against the national movement. In response, the Neo Destour gathered activists in \"Place aux Moutons\" where the nationalist leaders invited the people to resist and march towards the Residence. A delegation comprising Habib and M'hamed Bourguiba, El Materi, Sfar and Ali Dargouth requested to meet the resident-general, who later that day refused. Instead, administration officials demanded that they evacuate the Residence, calmly and without causing incidents. In response, the Neo Destour meetings increased and their contestations too. They demanded national sovereignty and evoked independence \"accompanied by a treaty guaranteeing France a preponderance both in the political and economical fields in comparison with other foreign powers\", in an article published by \"L'Action Tunisienne\". In order to do so, they required the transfer of government responsibilities, legislative and administrative even if it would preserve French interests in the cultural and economical fields.\n\nThese requests started a conflict between the French government and the Tunisian national movement, especially as party officials undertake a major action across the country to raise the people's awareness of their message. With the worsening of the economic crisis, Peyrouton wanted to avoid turmoil as the Neo Destour wanted an uprise of the population living in hard conditions. Thus, he responded with a series of measures destined to intimidate the movement. The repression that started was more and more violent: Peyrouton prohibited any nationalist and left wing newspaper, such as \"Tunis socialiste\", \"L'Humanité\" and \"Le Populaire\", on September 1, 1934. On September 3, raids were carried out as major party leaderships were arrested, that was both Destours and the communist party. They were placed under house arrest then sent to the military camp of Bordj le Bœuf, in the far South of Tunisia, before being freed two years later with the arrival of Resident-general, Armand Guillon.\n\nThe date of March 2, 1934, became a major event, both in the History of Tunisia and that of the National movement. After decline of the movement activism, this congress was the return in force of Tunisian nationalism with new ambitions. The new generation, of Sadikian formation then higher education in France, stood out from the Destour elders with Tunis origins and invited the people to masters of their fate. It was also a major date in Bourguiba's political career which permitted him to have a great part in the country liberation then the founding of a modern Republic. The congress also proclaimed the dissolution of the executive committee and endorsed the new party. Thus, two major political parties appeared on the political stage:\n\n\nTunisian scholars described the rivalry between the two parties: \"The Old Destour was a party of notables, well-raised distinguished people, Arabists formed in majority in the Ez-Zitouna University. Bourguiba and his fellows had, overall, a very different profile and view. From the petty bourgeoisie of the coast, they were considered, scornfully, as \"Afaqiyin\", those who came from behind the horizon, a euphemism for designating provincials. They had a modern, bilingual education and thus were also comfortable both in French and Arabic, were close to the people, whom they addressed with its spoken language, in Tunisian Arabic, and had the ambition to create a large mass party\".\n\n"}
{"id": "53012206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53012206", "title": "Kuleana Act of 1850 (Hawaii)", "text": "Kuleana Act of 1850 (Hawaii)\n\nKuleana is a Hawaiian word, defined in the Hawaii Electronic Library as a \"Right, privilege, concern, responsibility, title, business, property, estate, portion, jurisdiction, authority, liability, interest, claim, ownership, tenure, affair, province; reason, cause, function, justification; small piece of property, as within an ahupuaʻa; blood relative through whom a relationship to less close relatives is traced, as to in-laws.\" \n\nThe Kuleana Act of 1850, proposed by the King in Privy Council passed by the Hawaii legislature created a system for private land ownership in seven parts.\nSection 1 recognized ownership of government plots occupied and improved by families. Section 2 expanded title to other types of land. Section 3 defined land boundaries and the ability to exchange portions of land. Section 4 established a system for the Hawaiian government to distribute larger parcels of land. Section 5 established the largest size of family owned lots. Section 6 attempted to distinguish between cultivated and waste lands. Section 7 established access to roads, water sources, and other natural resources.\n\nFacebook founder and billionaire Mark Zuckerberg came under scrutiny in 2017 when he attempted to integrate property titles established by the Kuleana Act into a 700 acre estate he intended to assemble in Hawaii using quiet title lawsuits to establish the ownership of ambiguously-titled parcels of land.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "600110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=600110", "title": "Mana Wahine Te Ira Tangata", "text": "Mana Wahine Te Ira Tangata\n\nMana Wahine Te Ira Tangata was a small and short-lived political party in New Zealand. It was established by Alamein Kopu, a member of the New Zealand Parliament who had left her original party (the Alliance). After a short time as an independent MP, Kopu established Mana Wahine as her own party. It was officially registered on 12 June 1998.\n\nThe name \"Mana Wahine Te Ira Tangata\" is difficult to translate, but essentially refers to dignity or respect for women. Kopu claims that the party was intended to support Māori women, promoting a Māori form of feminism. Critics of Alamein Kopu, however, did not see the party as a genuine ideological organization. Rather, they saw a more cynical reason for the party's creation – as leader of a party rather than an independent, Kopu was entitled to $80,000 in additional funding. Jim Anderton, leader of Kopu's former party, said that the creation of Mana Wahine approached corruption, a sentiment which was echoed by several other politicians.\n\nKopu (and thus Mana Wahine) closely followed the National Party government of Jenny Shipley. National, having recently ended its coalition with the New Zealand First party, was highly interested in finding additional parliamentary support. It is sometimes claimed that National's influence was instrumental in gaining Mana Wahine official recognition as a party, and many members of the Opposition claimed that this help was given in order to secure Mana Wahine's vote – Trevor Mallard, a Labour Party MP, openly called it a \"bribe\".\n\nMana Wahine contested only two elections. The first was the Taranaki-King Country by-election in 1998. The Mana Wahine candidate, Mary Gilmore, received 7 of the 20,225 valid votes. In the 1999 general election, Mana Wahine failed to submit a party list, with Kopu saying that she missed the deadline by just minutes. The party nevertheless contested twelve electorate seats, gaining a total of 1,082 votes across the country. Kopu herself contested the Waiariki electorate, and gained sixth place with 1.70% of the vote.\n\n12 February 2001, Mana Wahine was removed from the list of registered political parties at its own request.\n"}
{"id": "20970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20970", "title": "Matthew F. Hale", "text": "Matthew F. Hale\n\nMatthew F. \"Matt\" Hale (born July 27, 1971) is an American white supremacist, neo-Nazi leader and a convicted felon. Hale was the founder of the East Peoria, Illinois-based white separatist group then known as the World Church of the Creator (now called The Creativity Movement), and he declared himself its \"Pontifex Maximus\" (Latin for \"highest priest\") in continuation of the Church of the Creator organization founded by Ben Klassen in 1973.\n\nIn 1998, Hale was barred from practicing law in Illinois by the state panel that evaluates the character and fitness of prospective lawyers. The panel stated that Hale's incitement of racial hatred, for the ultimate purpose of depriving selected groups of their legal rights, was blatantly immoral and rendered him unfit to be a lawyer.\n\nIn 2005, Hale was sentenced to a 40-year federal prison term for encouraging an undercover FBI informant to kill federal judge Joan Lefkow. His projected release date is December 6, 2037.\n\nHale was born in 1971 and raised in East Peoria, Illinois, a city on the Illinois River. By the age of 12, he was reading books about National Socialism, such as Adolf Hitler's \"Mein Kampf\", and had formed a group at his school.\n\nIn August 1989, Hale entered Bradley University, studying political science. At the age of 19, Hale burned an Israeli flag at a demonstration and was found guilty of violating an East Peoria ordinance against open burning. The next year, he passed out racist pamphlets to patrons at a shopping mall and was fined for littering. In May 1991, Hale and his brother allegedly threatened three African-Americans with a gun. Hale was arrested for mob action, and because he refused to tell police where his brother was, he was also charged with felony obstruction of justice. Hale was convicted of obstruction, but won a reversal on appeal. In 1992, Hale attacked a security guard at a mall and was charged with criminal trespass, resisting arrest, aggravated battery and carrying a concealed weapon. For this attack, Hale was sentenced to 30 months of probation and six months of house arrest.\n\nIn 1990, Hale was expelled from Bradley University, where he was studying political science. In 1995, he dissolved the National Socialist White Americans Party (NSWAP) and instead formed the New Church of the Creator, a revival of Ben Klassen's religious group \"Church of the Creator\", which believes that the white race are the creators of all worthwhile civilization. The church believes that a \"racial holy war\" is necessary to attain a \"white world\" without Jews and non-whites. To this end, it encourages its members to \"populate the lands of this earth with white people exclusively.\"\n\nAfter Hale appointed himself \"Pontifex Maximus\", he changed the name of the organization to the World Church of the Creator.\n\nHale graduated from Southern Illinois University School of Law in May 1998 and passed the bar examination in July of that same year.\n\nOn December 16, 1998, the Illinois Bar Committee on Character and Fitness rejected Hale's application for a license to practice law. Hale appealed, and a hearing was held on April 10, 1999. On June 30, 1999, a Hearing Panel of the Committee refused to certify that Hale had the requisite moral character and fitness to practice law in Illinois. Attorney Glenn Greenwald represented Hale in a failed federal lawsuit to overturn the licensing decision. The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois concluded it did not have jurisdiction to review an earlier decision of the Illinois Supreme Court upholding the license denial. The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals upheld that decision in an opinion filed on July 14, 2003.\n\nTwo days after Hale was denied a license to practice law, a World Church of the Creator member and college student, Benjamin Smith, went on a three-day shooting spree in which he randomly targeted members of racial and ethnic minority groups in Illinois and Indiana. Beginning on July 2, 1999, Smith shot nine Orthodox Jews while they were walking to and from their synagogues in Chicago's West Rogers Park neighborhood. He also killed two people, including former Northwestern University basketball coach Ricky Byrdsong, in Evanston, Illinois, and a 26-year-old Korean graduate student, Won-Joon Yoon, who was on his way to church in Bloomington, Indiana. Smith wounded nine others before committing suicide on July 4. Mark Potok, director of intelligence for the Southern Poverty Law Center, believes that Smith may have acted in retaliation after Hale's application to practice law was rejected.\n\nDuring a television interview in the summer of 1999, Hale stated that his \"church does not condone violent or illegal activities\".\n\nIn 2000, a religious group in Oregon called the Church of the Creator sued Hale's organization, the World Church of the Creator, for trademark infringement.\n\nHale filed a lawsuit against Judge Joan Lefkow, the United States district court judge presiding over the trademark infringement case who, after an appeal, had ruled against Hale's organization. Hale stated that the WCOTC was in a \"state of war\" with Lefkow, and denounced Lefkow in a news conference, claiming that she was biased against him because she was married to a Jewish man and had biracial grandchildren.\n\nOn January 8, 2003, Hale was arrested, charged with soliciting an undercover FBI informant to kill Lefkow.\n\nOn February 28, 2005, Lefkow's mother and husband were murdered at her home on Chicago's North Side. Chicago police revealed on March 10 that Bart Ross, a plaintiff in a medical malpractice case that Lefkow had dismissed, admitted to the murders in a suicide note written before shooting himself during a routine traffic stop in Wisconsin the previous evening. The murders and suicide were unrelated to Hale or Creativity.\n\nOn April 6, 2005, Hale was sentenced to a 40-year prison term for attempting to solicit Lefkow's murder. During the trial, jurors heard more than a dozen tapes of Hale using racial slurs (considered a virtue in Creativity), including one in which he joked about Benjamin Smith's murderous shooting spree.\n\nIn June 2016, Hale was transferred out of ADX Florence to medium-security federal prison FCI Terre Haute, Indiana, to serve the remainder of his sentence.\n\nHale's projected release date is December 6, 2037. If he is released at that time, he will be 66 years old.\n"}
{"id": "21020454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21020454", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Cambodia)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Cambodia)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Khmer: ក្រសួងកសិកម្ម រុក្ខាប្រមាញ់ និងនេសាទ \"Krasuong Kaksekar\") is the government ministry of Cambodia that is responsible for governing activities of agriculture, forestry and the fishery industry in Cambodia.\n\nPublic schools, companies and rubber plantations related to the Ministry include:\n\nIn the years of 2007-8 the Cambodian Government, was responsible for the sale of 45% of the total landmass in Cambodia to primarily foreign investors. The land concessions are to be used for agro-industrial, forestry, tourism and constructional projects, even though larger parts of the land are wildlife protections or national parks even (See Cardamom Mountains for example). The vast majority of the Economic Land Concessions (ELCs) have in fact been issued in violation of Cambodia’s 2001 Land Law and its Subdecree on ELCs and are therefore illegal. \nThe landsales has been perceived by observers, to be the result of extensive land grabbing and corruption within the judicial system, ministries and government bureaucracy of Cambodia. It has stirred serious unrest across the country, within recent years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35465499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35465499", "title": "Ministry of Education and Youth", "text": "Ministry of Education and Youth\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Youth (MoE) is a government ministry of Belize. The ministry's offices are located in the west block, in Belmopan, Cayo District.\n\n"}
{"id": "1548331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548331", "title": "Ministry of National Defence (Greece)", "text": "Ministry of National Defence (Greece)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence (, abbreviated ΥΠΕΘΑ), is the civilian cabinet organisation responsible for managing the Hellenic Armed Forces, the leader of which is, according to the Constitution (Article 45), the President of the Republic but their administration is exercised only by the Prime Minister and the Government of Greece. It is located at 227-231 Messogion Avenue, in the Papagos camp (Pentagon) in Athens, between Papagos and Holargos.\n\nToday is hierarchically ranked 3rd in the rankings of ministries, according to a decision of the Prime Minister (Government Gazette B / 1594 / 25-6-2013). The highest position in the history of the Ministry was the second, behind the ministry of the presidency of the government, .\n\nIt is considered to be a ministry of particular prestige and is one of the most desirable to the members of each government, because it oversees the Armed Forces, manages huge sums of money, and is usually away from the woes and the wear and tear of everyday life.\n\nThe current Greek Minister for Defence is ANEL leader Panos Kammenos in the Second Cabinet of Alexis Tsipras. Kammenos assumed the role on 23 September 2015.\n\nIt was founded in 1950 from the unification of three Ministries: under the influence of American advisors. However, a single Ministry of National Defense was established and operated in the three-year period of 1941-44 by the puppet governments (the legitimate exiled Greek government of the Middle East had retained the separate Ministries of Military Affairs, Naval Affairs and Aviation for the free Greek Armed Forces there).\n\n\n\nThe ministry is structured into three General Directorates:\n\nThere are also the Departments of:\n\nAlso, the ministry oversees the four General Staff of the Armed Forces:\n\n"}
{"id": "9972253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9972253", "title": "No Peace Without Justice", "text": "No Peace Without Justice\n\nNo Peace Without Justice (NPWJ) or Non C'è Pace Senza Giustizia (NPSG) is an Italian non-profit organization, founded in 1993 by Emma Bonino, an Italian politician, former Member of the European Parliament and current Member of the Italian Senate. NPWJ is based in Rome and is a member of the Steering Committee of the NGO Coalition for the International Criminal Court (CICC) and a constituent association of the Nonviolent Transnational Radical Party, an NGO with General (category I) Consultative Status at the United Nations ECOSOC.\nThe main programs areas are on international criminal justice, female genital mutilation, MENA democracy, including the Iraq project.\nHuman rights are most at threat in situations of conflict, where even the international community often promotes short-term measures intended to stop the fighting, but which breed more conflict, perpetuate impunity and undermine the rule of law, unless they provide accountability for the crimes and redress for the victims. Justice, democracy and the rule of law are the pillars of sustainable peace by guaranteeing fundamental freedoms and human rights. NPWJ's original core activities since 1993 were designed to promote the establishment of a permanent International Criminal Court as part of a more effective international criminal justice system for the prevention, deterrence and prosecution of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.\n\nNPWJ’s international criminal justice program still focuses both on international and national efforts to restore the rule of law and provide accountability and redress for the victims of crimes under international law, be they through the International Criminal Court, or through ad hoc Courts or Tribunals, national prosecutions or other accountability processes. The overall objective of the international criminal justice program is to ensure that whatever solution is adopted, it is shaped and implemented so that it can contribute to the restoration of the rule of law, it is responsive to the needs of stakeholders and it adheres to the strictest human rights standards. While NPWJ continues to work towards the universality of the Rome ICC Statute by promoting its ratification and effective implementing legislation, much of its focus is on ensuring that those crimes are properly addressed through national and international judicial processes or accountability mechanisms, with the ICC acting as a catalyst, as a guardian and as a last resort.\n\nThe female genital mutilation program, begun in 2000, specifically addresses one of the most widespread and systematic violations of the human right to personal integrity, committed against millions of women and girls worldwide, and which goes unchallenged under the pretext of respecting local customs. The overall objective of the FGM program is to develop a political, legal and social environment that challenges attitudes and behaviours on FGM and promotes its abandonment, in the context of the promotion and protection of women's and girls' rights, including through promoting the ratification and implementation of the Maputo Protocol on the Rights of Women in Africa. The program builds the strategic capacity of women’s rights advocates and field practitioners working on FGM and promotes legal reform as an effective tool for behavioural change in order to turn the tide of social norms against FGM.\n\nThe Middle East and North Africa democracy program, begun in 2003, also addresses situations where fundamental and universal principles are often set aside in the name of political stability and presumed cultural incompatibility. The overall objective of the MENA Democracy program is to promote democratic values, liberal institutions and open government through the development of political mechanisms of consultation that recognise non-state actors, NGOs and civil society as a legitimate and necessary counterpart for dialogue with State institutions on issues of democratic reform. The program is carried out both at national and at regional levels, in cooperation with several governments, non-governmental and institutional partners, aiming to develop effective and durable consultation and dialogue mechanisms on democratic reform.\n\nWithin the framework of the MENA Democracy program, the Iraq project, begun in 2006, contributes to the constitutional and institution-building process in Iraq by promoting negotiation between leaders from the entire political spectrum on the most politically sensitive issues, including in particular the attribution of responsibilities and powers at the various levels of State, Regions, Governorates, Towns and Municipalities. By providing opportunities for open and informed debate, the Iraq project aims to help prevent or defuse negotiation deadlocks and identify durable solutions.\n\nPriorities for action for all programs are selected on the basis of the needs as determined on the ground, involving all stakeholders in the design and implementation of activities. In advocacy activities, NPWJ raises awareness and fosters public debate through explicitly political campaigns and the implementation of key programs, such as international and regional meetings, often co-hosted and co-organised with Government of the country in which they are held, fostering partnerships between public institutions, non-governmental organisations and other actors in society, to attain stakeholders’ ownership both of the political drive and of the results. NPWJ also undertakes wide-ranging technical assistance, through the secondment of legal experts to governments for the drafting of legislation and to assist in negotiations on international human rights instruments. Finally, NPWJ has acquired unique field experience in “conflict mapping” and wide-scale documentation of violations of international humanitarian law in areas affected by conflicts and in implementing outreach programs engaging local communities in conflict and post-conflict areas on issues of international criminal justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "4203562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4203562", "title": "Nonviolence International", "text": "Nonviolence International\n\nNonviolence International describes itself as a decentralized network of resource centers that promote the use of nonviolence and nonviolent resistance.\n\nFounded by Palestinian activist Mubarak Awad in 1989, NI is a 501(c)(3) organization registered in Washington, DC, United States. They are active in educating and training the public and activists in the use of nonviolent resistance. They are particularly known for their work in conflict zones and Civil Society at the United Nations building coalitions to find and advocate for those nonviolent solutions across the globe.\n\nTheir mission statement is:\n\nNonviolence International operates as a collective of independent offices around the world. Each office manages its own programs and activities.\n\nthe Global Affiliate s are in Washington DC and New York City (United States) , Indonesia, Palestine, South East Asia, The Americas, Middle East, & Canada\n\nIn addition to its own programs, Nonviolence International holds membership in a number of other organizations and campaigns, such as the International Campaign Against Foreign Military Bases, the International Campaign to Ban Landmines, The International Action Network on Small Arms (IANSA), the US campaign to end the Israeli occupation, NGO Major Group, Coalition for Global Citizenship 2030 War Resisters' International (WRI), and the International Peace Bureau (IPB). Nonviolence International is further affiliated with the Holy Land Trust, and the al Watan Center. It is also the co-sponsor/administrator of the El-Hibri Peace Education Prize.\n\nThe main focus of the organization is promoting nonviolent solutions through the training and education of individuals, NGOs, and governments. It provides education materials, and sponsors and organizes training and strategy sessions. Specifically the organization:\n\n"}
{"id": "49555941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49555941", "title": "Northern Ireland (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2014", "text": "Northern Ireland (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2014\n\nThe Northern Ireland (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2014 is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was passed with the intent to ban dual mandates (also known as double-jobbing) for Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) and to bring the Northern Ireland Assembly's elections into line with the other British devolved legislatures. It received Royal Assent on 13 March 2014.\n\nDuring the debate on the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, the Scottish Parliament and the Welsh Assembly passed motions requesting the Government of the United Kingdom to delay their respective devolved legislature elections in 2015 to avoid a clash with the 2015 general election. The UK Government passed an amendment to the bill to allow for their elections to take place in 2016. Northern Ireland was not included in this bill due to the 2011 Northern Ireland Assembly election taking place at the time. The Northern Ireland (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act was passed to bring the Northern Ireland Assembly into line with the other devolved legislatures and to extend each Assembly term to five years instead of four.\n\nThe Act also provided the option for the Assembly to reduce its size to 90 MLAs. The option for an official opposition to be formed in the Assembly if there was sufficient cross community support was considered during the parliamentary debate however it was not included in the final act.\n\nIn 2009, a House of Commons report recommended banning double-jobbing despite noting that it was a part of political culture in Northern Ireland as part of a legacy of The Troubles which had discouraged people from taking part in standing for elected office. Indeed, at one point Ian Paisley was \"triple-jobbing\" as an MLA, MP and MEP. By 2011 all the major parties in Northern Ireland had agreed to the principle of ending double-jobbing. The legislation prohibited people from being a member of the House of Commons, European Parliament or the Republic of Ireland's Dáil Éireann as well as an MLA. The legislation banned double-jobbing from the 2016 Northern Ireland Assembly election but allowed those who currently held dual mandates to hold them until the election when they would have eight days to decide which legislature they wished to sit in. Three members had this possibility at the time of passage, but following the 2015 UK general election, the last person in Northern Ireland with a dual mandate was Gregory Campbell as an MLA and MP for East Londonderry.\n"}
{"id": "2002230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002230", "title": "Pensioners' Party of the Republika Srpska", "text": "Pensioners' Party of the Republika Srpska\n\nThe Pensioners' Party of the Republika Srpska (Serbian: Пензионерска Странка Републике Српске, \"Penzionerska Stranka Republike Srpske\") is a Serbian political party in Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n"}
{"id": "36281619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36281619", "title": "People–Animals–Nature", "text": "People–Animals–Nature\n\nPeople–Animals–Nature (, PAN) is a Portuguese political party, founded in 2009. Since 2015, they have one seat in the Assembly of the Republic. \n\nIn the 2011 Madeiran regional election it had 2.13% of the votes, with a total of 3,135 votes, thus having elected one MP also in this regional parliament, Rui Manuel dos Santos Almeida.\n\n"}
{"id": "58541360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58541360", "title": "Pierson cabinet", "text": "Pierson cabinet\n\nThe Pierson cabinet was the cabinet of the Netherlands from 27 July 1897 until 1 August 1901. The cabinet was formed by the political party Liberal Union (CU) after the election of 1897. The centre-right cabinet was a minority government in the House of Representatives but was supported by Independent Liberals for a majority. Nicolaas Pierson of the Liberal Union was Prime Minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23257010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23257010", "title": "Pinwale", "text": "Pinwale\n\nPinwale is the code name for a National Security Agency (NSA) collection and retrieval system for so-called \"Digital Network Intelligence\", including internet e-mail. It is searchable by monitored NSA analysts.\n\nThe existence of the system was first revealed by an NSA analyst who was trained in its use during 2005. However, according to \"Homeland Security Today\", Pinwale has in it much more than email, it also contains other forms of Internet data, and other forms of digital communications as well. Its software has built-in protections against collecting from any of the Five Eyes members. Unlike its successor XKeyscore, targets for Pinwale have to be approved beforehand by the FISC.\n\nAccording to information obtained by \"The Guardian\" from Edward Snowden, Pinwale is part of a \"multi-tiered system\" to address the issue of NSA \"collecting so much internet data that it can be stored only for short periods of time.\" The system allows analysts to store \"interesting\" content in databases such as Pinwale, which is capable of storing material for up to five years.\n\nPinwale consists of at least two known partitions referred to as \"Sweet\" and \"Sour\".\n\nAccording to the documents leaked by Snowden, Pinwale normally processed about 60 GB of data per day without trouble. Pinwale was overwhelmed however when Yahoo started mass mailbox transfers between its datacenters, which were captured by the NSA's MUSCULAR program that taps the private clouds of Google and Yahoo. Monitored email accounts being hacked by spammers also present a challenge to Pinwale, because they can cause the database of suspect email addresses to grow exponentially with information of no intelligence value.\n\n"}
{"id": "24850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24850", "title": "Political fiction", "text": "Political fiction\n\nPolitical fiction employs narrative to comment on political events, systems and theories. Works of political fiction, such as political novels, often \"directly criticize an existing society or present an alternative, even fantastic, reality\". The political novel overlaps with the social novel, proletarian novel, and social science fiction.\n\nPlato's \"Republic\", a Socratic dialogue written around 380 BC, has been one of the world's most influential works of philosophy and political theory, both intellectually and historically. The \"Republic\" is concerned with justice (), the order and character of the just city-state, and the just man. Other influential politically-themed works include Thomas More's \"Utopia\" (1516), Jonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726), Voltaire's \"Candide\" (1759), and Harriet Beecher Stowe's \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" (1852).\n\nPolitical fiction frequently employs satire, often in the utopian and dystopian genres.\nThis includes totalitarian dystopias of the early 20th century such as Jack London's \"The Iron Heel\", Sinclair Lewis' \"It Can't Happen Here\", and George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\n\nThe Greek playwright Aristophanes' plays are known for their political and social satire, particularly in his criticism of the powerful Athenian general, Cleon, in plays such as \"The Knights\". Aristophanes is also notable for the persecution he underwent. Aristophanes' plays turned upon images of filth and disease. His bawdy style was adopted by Greek dramatist-comedian Menander, whose early play, \"Drunkenness\", contains an attack on the politician, Callimedon.\n\nJonathan Swift's \"A Modest Proposal\" (1729) is an 18th-century Juvenalian satirical essay in which he suggests that the impoverished Irish might ease their economic troubles by selling their children as food for rich gentlemen and ladies. The satirical hyperbole mocks heartless attitudes towards the poor, as well as British policy toward the Irish in general.\n\nGeorge Orwell's \"Animal Farm\" (1945) is an allegorical and dystopian novella which satirises the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the Soviet Union's Stalinist era. Orwell, a democratic socialist, was a critic of Joseph Stalin and was hostile to Moscow-directed Stalinism—an attitude that had been shaped by his experiences during the Spanish Civil War. The Soviet Union, he believed, had become a brutal dictatorship, built upon a cult of personality and enforced by a reign of terror. Orwell described his \"Animal Farm\" as \"a satirical tale against Stalin\", and in his essay \"Why I Write\" (1946) he wrote that \"Animal Farm\" was the first book in which he tried, with full consciousness of what he was doing, \"to fuse political purpose and artistic purpose into one whole.\"\n\nOrwell's most famous work, however, is \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (published in 1949), many of whose terms and concepts, such as \"Big Brother\", \"doublethink\", \"thoughtcrime\", \"Newspeak\", \"Room 101\", \"telescreen\", \"2 + 2 = 5\", and \"memory hole\", have entered into common use. \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" popularised the adjective \"Orwellian\", which describes official deception, secret surveillance, and manipulation of recorded history by a totalitarian or authoritarian state.\n\nThe poet Jan Kochanowski's play, \"The Dismissal of the Greek Envoys\" (1578), the first tragedy written in the Polish language, recounts an incident leading up to the Trojan War. Its theme of the responsibilities of statesmanship resonates to the present day.\n\nThe political comedy, \"The Return of the Deputy\" (1790), by Julian Ursyn Niemcewicz—Polish poet, playwright, statesman, and comrade-in-arms of Tadeusz Kościuszko—was written in about two weeks' time while Niemcewicz was serving as a deputy to the historic Four-Year Sejm of 1788–92. The comedy's premiere in January 1791 was an enormous success, sparking widespread debate, royal communiques, and diplomatic correspondence. As Niemcewicz had hoped, it set the stage for passage of Poland's epochal Constitution of 3 May 1791, which is regarded as Europe's first, and the world's second, modern written national constitution, after the United States Constitution implemented in 1789. The comedy pits proponents against opponents of political reforms: of abolishing the destabilizing free election of Poland's kings; of abolishing the legislatively destructive \"liberum veto\"; of granting greater rights to peasants and townspeople; of curbing the privileges of the mostly self-interested noble class; and of promoting a more active Polish role in international affairs, in the interest of stopping the depredations of Poland's neighbors, Russia, Prussia, and Austria (who will in 1795 complete the dismemberment of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth). Romantic interest is provided by a rivalry between a reformer and a conservative for a young lady's hand—which is won by the proponent of reforms.\n\nAn early example of the political novel is \"The Betrothed\" (1827) by Alessandro Manzoni, an Italian historical novel. Set in northern Italy in 1628, during the oppressive years of direct Spanish rule, it has been seen sometimes as a veiled attack on the Austrian Empire, which controlled Italy at the time the novel was written. It has been called the most famous and widely read novel in the Italian language.\n\nIn the 1840s British politician Benjamin Disraeli wrote a trilogy of novels with political themes. With \"Coningsby; or, The New Generation\" (1844), Disraeli, in historian Robert Blake's view, \"infused the novel genre with political sensibility, espousing the belief that England's future as a world power depended not on the complacent old guard, but on youthful, idealistic politicians.\" \"Coningsby\" was followed by \"Sybil; or, The Two Nations\" (1845), another political novel, which was less idealistic and more clear-eyed than \"Coningsby\"; the \"two nations\" of its subtitle referred to the huge economic and social gap between the privileged few and the deprived working classes. The last of Disraeli's political-novel trilogy, \"Tancred; or, The New Crusade\" (1847), promoted the Church of England's role in reviving Britain's flagging spirituality.\n\nIvan Turgenev wrote \"Fathers and Sons\" (1862) as a response to the growing cultural schism that he saw between Russia's liberals of the 1830s and 1840s, and the growing Russian nihilist movement among their sons. Both the nihilists and the 1830s liberals sought Western-based social change in Russia. Additionally, these two modes of thought were contrasted with the Slavophiles, who believed that Russia's path lay in its traditional spirituality. Turgenev's novel was responsible for popularizing the use of the term \"nihilism\", which became widely used after the novel was published.\nThe Polish writer Bolesław Prus' novel, \"Pharaoh\" (1895), is set in the Egypt of 1087–85 BCE as that country experiences internal stresses and external threats that will culminate in the fall of its Twentieth Dynasty and New Kingdom. The young protagonist Ramses learns that those who would challenge the powers that be are vulnerable to co-option, seduction, subornation, defamation, intimidation, and assassination. Perhaps the chief lesson, belatedly absorbed by Ramses as pharaoh, is the importance, to power, of knowledge. Prus' vision of the fall of an ancient civilization derives some of its power from the author's intimate awareness of the final demise of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1795, a century before he completed \"Pharaoh\". This is a political awareness that Prus shared with his 10-years-junior novelist compatriot, Joseph Conrad, who was an admirer of Prus' writings. \"Pharaoh\" has been translated into 20 languages and adapted as a 1966 Polish feature film. It is also known to have been Joseph Stalin's favourite book.\n\nJoseph Conrad wrote several novels with political themes: \"Nostromo (1904)\", \"The Secret Agent\" (1907), and\n\"Under Western Eyes\" (1911). \"Nostromo\" (1904) is set amid political upheaval in the fictitious South American country of Costaguana, where a trusted Italian-descended longshoreman, Giovanni Battista Fidanza—the novel's eponymous \"Nostromo\" (Italian for \"our man\")—is instructed by English-descended silver-mine owner Charles Gould to take Gould's silver abroad so that it will not fall into the hands of revolutionaries. The role of politics is paramount in \"The Secret Agent\", as the main character, Verloc, works for a quasi-political organisation. The plot to destroy Greenwich Observatory is in itself anarchistic. Vladimir asserts that the bombing \"must be purely destructive\" and that the anarchists who will be implicated as the architects of the explosion \"should make it clear that [they] are perfectly determined to make a clean sweep of the whole social creation.\" However, the political form of anarchism is ultimately controlled in the novel: the only supposed politically motivated act is orchestrated by a secret government agency. Conrad's third political novel, \"Under Western Eyes\", is connected to Russian history. Its first audience read it against the backdrop of the failed Revolution of 1905 and in the shadow of the movements and impulses that would take shape as the revolutions of 1917. Conrad's earlier novella, \"Heart of Darkness\" (1899), also had political implications, in its depiction of European colonial depredations in Africa, which Conrad witnessed during his employ in the Belgian Congo.\n\nJohn Steinbeck's novel \"The Grapes of Wrath\" (1939) is a passionate depiction of the plight of the poor. However, many of Steinbeck's contemporaries attacked his social and political views. Bryan Cordyack writes: \"Steinbeck was attacked as a propagandist and a socialist from both the left and the right of the political spectrum. The most fervent of these attacks came from the Associated Farmers of California; they were displeased with the book's depiction of California farmers' attitudes and conduct toward the migrants. They denounced the book as a 'pack of lies' and labeled it 'communist propaganda'\". Some accused Steinbeck of exaggerating camp conditions to make a political point. Steinbeck had visited the camps well before publication of the novel and argued that their inhumane nature destroyed the settlers' spirit.\n\n\"The Quiet American\" (1955) by English novelist Graham Greene questions the foundations of growing American involvement in Vietnam in the 1950s. The novel has received much attention due to its prediction of the outcome of the Vietnam War and subsequent American foreign policy since the 1950s. Graham Greene portrays a U.S. official named Pyle as so blinded by American exceptionalism that he cannot see the calamities he brings upon the Vietnamese. The book uses Greene's experiences as a war correspondent for \"The Times\" and \"Le Figaro\" in French Indochina in 1951–54.\n\nThe proletarian novel is written by workers, mainly for other workers. It overlaps and sometimes is synonymous with the working-class novel, socialist novel, social-problem novel (also problem novel, sociological novel, or social novel), propaganda or thesis novel, and socialist-realism novel. The intention of the writers of proletarian literature is to lift the workers from the slums by inspiring them to embrace the possibilities of social change or of a political revolution. As such, it is a form of political fiction.\n\nThe proletarian novel may comment on political events, systems, and theories, and is frequently seen as an instrument to promote social reform or political revolution among the working classes. Proletarian literature is created especially by communist, socialist, and anarchist authors. It is about the lives of the poor, and the period from 1930 to 1945, in particular, produced many such novels. However, proletarian works were also produced before and after those dates. In Britain, the terms \"working-class\" literature, novel, etc., are more generally used.\n\nA closely related type of novel, which frequently has a political dimension, is the social novel – also known as the \"social-problem\" or \"social-protest\" novel – a \"work of fiction in which a prevailing social problem, such as gender, race, or class prejudice, is dramatized through its effect on the characters of a novel\". More specific examples of social problems that are addressed in such works include poverty, conditions in factories and mines, the plight of child labor, violence against women, rising criminality, and epidemics caused by overcrowding and poor sanitation in cities.\n\nCharles Dickens was a fierce critic of the poverty and social stratification of Victorian society. Karl Marx asserted that Dickens \"issued to the world more political and social truths than have been uttered by all the professional politicians, publicists and moralists put together\". On the other hand, George Orwell, in his essay on Dickens, wrote: \"There is no clear sign that he wants the existing order to be overthrown, or that he believes it would make very much difference if it were overthrown. For in reality his target is not so much society as 'human nature'.\"\n\nDickens's second novel, \"Oliver Twist\" (1839), shocked readers with its images of poverty and crime: it destroyed middle-class polemics about criminals, making any pretence to ignorance about what poverty entailed impossible. Charles Dickens's Hard Times (1854) is set in a small Midlands industrial town and particularly criticizes the effect of Utilitarianism on the lives of cities' working classes. John Ruskin declared \"Hard Times\" his favourite Dickens work due to its exploration of important social questions. Walter Allen characterised \"Hard Times\" as an unsurpassed \"critique of industrial society\",\n\n\"This is a list of a few of the early or notable examples; others belong on the main list\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "658651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658651", "title": "Polynomial hierarchy", "text": "Polynomial hierarchy\n\nIn computational complexity theory, the polynomial hierarchy (sometimes called the polynomial-time hierarchy) is a hierarchy of complexity classes that generalize the classes P, NP and co-NP to oracle machines. It is a resource-bounded counterpart to the arithmetical hierarchy and analytical hierarchy from mathematical logic.\n\nThere are multiple equivalent definitions of the classes of the polynomial hierarchy.\n\n</math>\n\nwhere formula_3 is the set of decision problems solvable in polynomial time by a Turing machine augmented by an oracle for some complete problem in class A; the classes formula_4 and formula_5 are defined analogously. For example, formula_6, and formula_7 is the class of problems solvable in polynomial time with an oracle for some NP-complete problem.\n\nwhere formula_9 is some standard encoding of the pair of binary strings \"x\" and \"w\" as a single binary string. \"L\" represents a set of ordered pairs of strings, where the first string \"x\" is a member of formula_10, and the second string \"w\" is a \"short\" (formula_11) witness testifying that \"x\" is a member of formula_10. In other words, formula_13 if and only if there exists a short witness \"w\" such that formula_14. Similarly, define\n\nNote that De Morgan's laws hold: formula_16 and formula_17, where \"L\" is the complement of \"L\".\n\nLet be a class of languages. Extend these operators to work on whole classes of languages by the definition\n\nAgain, De Morgan's laws hold: formula_20 and formula_21, where formula_22.\n\nThe classes NP and co-NP can be defined as formula_23, and formula_24, where P is the class of all feasibly (polynomial-time) decidable languages. The polynomial hierarchy can be defined recursively as\n\nNote that formula_28, and formula_29.\n\nThis definition reflects the close connection between the polynomial hierarchy and the arithmetical hierarchy, where R and RE play roles analogous to P and NP, respectively. The analytic hierarchy is also defined in a similar way to give a hierarchy of subsets of the real numbers.\n\nThe definitions imply the relations:\n\nUnlike the arithmetic and analytic hierarchies, whose inclusions are known to be proper, it is an open question whether any of these inclusions are proper, though it is widely believed that they all are. If any formula_35, or if any formula_36, then the hierarchy \"collapses to level k\": for all formula_37, formula_38. In particular, if P = NP, then the hierarchy collapses completely.\n\nThe union of all classes in the polynomial hierarchy is the complexity class PH.\n\nThe polynomial hierarchy is an analogue (at much lower complexity) of the exponential hierarchy and arithmetical hierarchy.\n\nIt is known that PH is contained within PSPACE, but it is not known whether the two classes are equal. One useful reformulation of this problem is that PH = PSPACE if and only if second-order logic over finite structures gains no additional power from the addition of a transitive closure operator.\n\nIf the polynomial hierarchy has any complete problems, then it has only finitely many distinct levels. Since there are PSPACE-complete problems, we know that if PSPACE = PH, then the polynomial hierarchy must collapse, since a PSPACE-complete problem would be a formula_39-complete problem for some \"k\".\n\nEach class in the polynomial hierarchy contains formula_40-complete problems (problems complete under polynomial-time many-one reductions). Furthermore, each class in the polynomial hierarchy is \"closed under formula_40-reductions\": meaning that for a class in the hierarchy and a language formula_42, if formula_43, then formula_44 as well. These two facts together imply that if formula_45 is a complete problem for formula_46, then formula_47, and formula_48. For instance, formula_49. In other words, if a language is defined based on some oracle in , then we can assume that it is defined based on a complete problem for . Complete problems therefore act as \"representatives\" of the class for which they are complete.\n\nThe Sipser–Lautemann theorem states that the class BPP is contained in the second level of the polynomial hierarchy.\n\nKannan's theorem states that for any \"k\", formula_50 is not contained in SIZE(n).\n\nToda's theorem states that the polynomial hierarchy is contained in P.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24856", "title": "Prohibition", "text": "Prohibition\n\nProhibition is the act or practice of forbidding something by law; more particularly the term refers to the banning of the manufacture, storage (whether in barrels or in bottles), transportation, sale, possession, and consumption of alcoholic beverages. The word is also used to refer to a period of time during which such bans are enforced.\n\nSome kind of limitation on the trade in alcohol can be seen in the Code of Hammurabi (ca.1772 BCE) specifically banning the selling of beer for money. It could only be bartered for barley: \"If a beer seller do not receive barley as the price for beer, but if she receive money or make the beer a measure smaller than the barley measure received, they shall throw her into the water.\"\n\nIn the Western world, one of the great moral issues of the nineteenth century was slavery, but once that battle was won, social moralists turned to their next targets, one of which was prohibition. In the early twentieth century, much of the impetus for the prohibition movement in the Nordic countries and North America came from moralistic convictions of pietistic Protestants. Prohibition movements in the West coincided with the advent of women's suffrage, with newly empowered women as part of the political process strongly supporting policies that curbed alcohol consumption.\n\nThe first half of the 20th century saw periods of prohibition of alcoholic beverages in several countries:\n\nAfter several years, prohibition failed in North America and elsewhere. Rum-running or bootlegging became widespread, and organized crime took control of the distribution of alcohol. Distilleries and breweries in Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean flourished as their products were either consumed by visiting Americans or illegally exported to the United States. Chicago became notorious as a haven for prohibition dodgers during the time known as the Roaring Twenties. Prohibition generally came to an end in the late 1920s or early 1930s in most of North America and Europe, although a few locations continued prohibition for many more years.\n\nIn some countries where the dominant religion forbids the use of alcohol, the production, sale, and consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited or restricted today. For example, in Saudi Arabia and Libya alcohol is banned; in Pakistan and Iran it is illegal with exceptions.\n\nSale of alcohol is banned in Afghanistan.\n\nIn Bangladesh, alcohol is somewhat prohibited due to its proscription in the Islamic faith. However, the purchase and consumption is allowed in the country. The Garo tribe consume a type of rice beer, and Christians in this country drink and purchase wine for their holy communion.\n\nIn Brunei, alcohol consumption and sale is banned in public. Non-Muslims are allowed to purchase a limited amount of alcohol from their point of embarcation overseas for their own private consumption, and non-Muslims who are at least the age of 18 are allowed to bring in not more than two bottles of liquor (about two litres) and twelve cans of beer per person into the country.\n\nIn India alcohol is a state subject and individual states can legislate prohibition, but currently most states do not have prohibition and sale/consumption is freely available in 25 out of 29 states. Prohibition is in force in the states of Gujarat, Bihar and Nagaland, parts of Manipur, and the union territory of Lakshadweep. All other States and union territories of India permit the sale of alcohol.\n\nElection days and certain national holidays such as \"Independence Day\" are meant to be \"dry days\" when liquor sale is not permitted but consumption is allowed. Some Indian states observe dry days on major religious festivals/occasions depending on the popularity of the festival in that region.\n\nSince the 1979 Islamic Revolution, the sale and consumption of alcohol is banned in Iran. All people are banned from drinking alcohol but some people trade and sell it illegaly .\n\nAlcohol sales are banned in small shops and convenience stores.\n\nThe consumption, importation and brewing of, and trafficking in liquor is strictly against the law.\n\nAlcohol is banned only for Muslims in Malaysia due to its Islamic faith and sharia law. Nevertheless, alcoholic products can easily be found in supermarkets, specialty shops, and convenience stores all over the country. Non-halal restaurants also typically sell alcohol.\n\nThe Maldives ban the import of alcohol, x-raying all baggage on arrival. Alcoholic beverages are available only to foreign tourists on resort islands and may not be taken off the resort.\n\nPakistan allowed the free sale and consumption of alcohol for three decades from 1947, but restrictions were introduced by Zulfikar Ali Bhutto just weeks before he was removed as prime minister in 1977. Since then, only members of non-Muslim minorities such as Hindus, Christians and Zoroastrians are allowed to apply for alcohol permits. The monthly quota is dependent upon one's income, but usually is about five bottles of liquor or 100 bottles of beer. In a country of 180 million, only about 60 outlets are allowed to sell alcohol. The Murree Brewery in Rawalpindi was once the only legal brewery, but today there are more. The ban officially is enforced by the country's Islamic Ideology Council, but it is not strictly policed. Members of religious minorities, however, often sell their liquor permits to Muslims as part of a continuing black market trade in alcohol.\n\nThere are only restrictions during elections in the Philippines. Alcohol is prohibited from purchase two days prior to an election. The Philippine [Commission on Elections] may opt to extend the liquor ban. In the 2010 elections, the liquor ban was a minimum two days; in the 2013 elections, there was a proposal that it be extended to five days. This was overturned by the Supreme Court.\n\nOther than election-related prohibition, alcohol is freely sold to anyone above the legal drinking age.\n\nThe sale, consumption, importation and brewing of, and trafficking in liquor is strictly against the law.\n\nIn 1955 Sri Lanka passed a law prohibiting adult women from buying alcohol. In January 2018, Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera announced that the law would be amended, allowing women to legally consume alcohol and work in venues that sell alcohol. The legalization was overruled by President Maithripala Sirisena several days later.\n\nAlcohol is prohibited from being sold during election time, from 6 pm the day prior to voting, until the end of the day of voting itself. Alcohol is also prohibited on major Buddhist holy days, and sometimes on Royal Commemoration days, such as birthdays.\n\nThailand also enforces time-limited bans on alcohol on a daily basis. Alcohol can only be legally purchased in stores or restaurants between 11 am–2 pm and 5 pm–midnight. This law is enforced by all major retailers (most notably 7-Eleven) and restaurants but is frequently ignored by the smaller 'mom and pop' stores. Hotels and resorts are exempt from the rules.\n\nThe consumption of alcohol is also banned at any time within 200 meters of a filling station (where sale of alcohol is also illegal), schools, temples or hospitals as well as on board any type of road vehicle regardless of whether it is being consumed by the driver or passenger.\n\nAt certain times of the year – Thai New Year (Songkran) as an example – the government may also enforce arbitrary bans on the sale and consumption of alcohol in specific public areas where large scale festivities are due to take place and large crowds are expected.\n\nAlcohol is banned in Yemen.\n\nOn 14 September 2012, the government of the Czech Republic banned all sales of liquor with more than 20% alcohol. From this date on it was illegal to sell such alcoholic beverages in shops, supermarkets, bars, restaurants, gas stations, e-shops etc. This measure was taken in response to the wave of methanol poisoning cases resulting in the deaths of 18 people in the Czech Republic. Since the beginning of the \"methanol affair\" the total number of deaths has increased to 25. The ban was to be valid until further notice, though restrictions were eased towards the end of September. The last bans on Czech alcohol with regard to the poisoning cases were lifted on 10 October 2012, when neighbouring Slovakia and Poland allowed its import once again.\n\nThe Nordic countries, with the exception of Denmark, have had a strong temperance movement since the late 1800s, closely linked to the Christian revival movement of the late 19th century, but also to several worker organisations. As an example, in 1910 the temperance organisations in Sweden had some 330,000 members, which was about 6% of a population of 5.5 million. This heavily influenced the decisions of Nordic politicians in the early 20th century.\n\nIn 1907, the Faroe Islands passed a law prohibiting all sale of alcohol, which was in force until 1992. Very restricted private importation from Denmark was allowed from 1928 on.\n\nIn 1914, Sweden put in place a rationing system, the Bratt System, in force until 1955. A referendum in 1922 rejected an attempt to enforce total prohibition.\n\nIn 1915, Iceland instituted total prohibition. The ban for wine was lifted in 1922 and spirits in 1935, but beer remained prohibited until 1989 (cirumvented by mixing light beer and spirits).\n\nIn 1916, Norway prohibited distilled beverages, and in 1917 the prohibition was extended to also include fortified wine and beer. The wine and beer ban was lifted in 1923, and in 1927 \nthe ban of distilled beverages was also lifted.\n\nIn 1919, Finland enacted prohibition, as one of the first acts after independence from the Russian Empire. Four previous attempts to institute prohibition in the early 20th century had failed due to opposition from the tsar. After a development similar to the one in the United States during its prohibition, with large-scale smuggling and increasing violence and crime rates, public opinion turned against the prohibition, and after a national referendum where 70% voted for a repeal of the law, prohibition was ended in early 1932.\n\nToday, all Nordic countries (with the exception of Denmark) continue to have strict controls on the sale of alcohol which is highly taxed (dutied) to the public. There are government monopolies in place for selling spirits, wine, and stronger beers in Norway (Vinmonopolet), Finland (Alko), Sweden (Systembolaget), Iceland (Vínbúðin), and the Faroe Islands (Rúsdrekkasøla Landsins). Bars and restaurants may, however, import alcoholic beverages directly or through other companies.\nGreenland, which is part of the Kingdom of Denmark, does not share its easier controls on the sale of alcohol. Greenland has (like Denmark) sales in food shops, but prices are high. Private import when traveling from Denmark is only allowed in small quantities.\n\nIn the Russian Empire, a limited version of a Dry Law was introduced in 1914. It continued through the turmoil of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the Russian Civil War into the period of Soviet Russia and the Soviet Union until 1925.\n\nAlthough the sale or consumption of commercial alcohol has never been prohibited by law in the United Kingdom, historically, various groups in the UK have campaigned for the prohibition of alcohol; including the Society of Friends (Quakers), The Methodist Church and other non-conformists, as well as temperance movements such as Band of Hope and temperance Chartist movements of the nineteenth century.\n\nFormed in 1853 and inspired by the Maine law in the United States, the United Kingdom Alliance aimed at promoting a similar law prohibiting the sale of alcohol in the UK. This hard-line group of prohibitionists was opposed by other temperance organisations who preferred moral persuasion to a legal ban. This division in the ranks limited the effectiveness of the temperance movement as a whole. The impotence of legislation in this field was demonstrated when the Sale of Beer Act 1854 which restricted Sunday opening hours had to be repealed, following widespread rioting. In 1859, a prototype prohibition bill was overwhelmingly defeated in the House of Commons.\n\nOn 22 March 1917, during the First World War at a crowded meeting in the Queen's Hall in London (chaired by Alfred Booth) many influential people including Agnes Weston spoke, or letters from them were read out, against alcohol consumption, calling for prohibition; General Sir Reginald Hart wrote to the meeting that \"Every experienced officer knew that practically all unhappiness and crime in the Army is due to drink\". At the meeting, Lord Channing said that it was a pity that the whole Cabinet did not follow the example of King George V and Lord Kitchener when in 1914 those two spoke calling for complete prohibition for the duration of the war.\n\nAn official, but non-binding, federal referendum on prohibition was held in 1898. Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier's government chose not to introduce a federal bill on prohibition, mindful of the strong antipathy in Quebec. As a result, Canadian prohibition was instead enacted through laws passed by the provinces during the first twenty years of the 20th century. The provinces repealed their prohibition laws, mostly during the 1920s.\n\nSome communities in the Chiapas state of southern Mexico are under the control of the radical leftist Zapatista Army of National Liberation, and often ban alcohol as part of what was described as \"a collective decision\". This prohibition has been used by many villages as a way to decrease domestic violence and has generally been favored by women. However, this prohibition is not recognized by federal Mexican law as the Zapatista movement is strongly opposed by the federal government.\n\nThe sale and purchase of alcohol is prohibited on and the night before certain national holidays, such as \"Natalicio de Benito Juárez\" (birthdate of Benito Juárez) and \"Día de la Revolución\", which are meant to be dry nationally. The same \"dry law\" applies to the days before presidential elections every six years.\n\nProhibition in the United States focused on the manufacture, transportation, and sale of alcoholic beverages; however, exceptions were made for medicinal and religious uses. Alcohol consumption was never illegal under federal law. Nationwide Prohibition did not begin in the United States until January 1920, when the Eighteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution went into effect. The 18th amendment was ratified in 1919, and was repealed in December 1933 with the ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment.\n\nConcern over excessive alcohol consumption began during the American colonial era, when fines were imposed for drunken behavior and for selling liquor without a license. In the eighteenth century, when drinking was a part of everyday American life, Protestant religious groups, especially the Methodists, and health reformers, including Benjamin Rush and others, urged Americans to curb their drinking habits for moral and health reasons. In particular, Benjamin Rush believed Americans were drinking hard spirits in excess, so he created \"A Moral and Physical Thermometer,\" displaying the progression of behaviors caused by the consumption of various alcohols. By the 1840s the temperance movement was actively encouraging individuals to reduce alcohol consumption. Music (a completely new genre) was composed and performed in support of the efforts, both in social contexts and in response to state legislation attempts to regulate alcohol. Many took a pledge of total abstinence (teetotalism) from drinking distilled liquor as well as beer and wine. Prohibition remained a major reform movement from the 1840s until the 1920s, when nationwide prohibition went into effect, and was supported by evangelical Protestant churches, especially the Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, Disciples of Christ, and Congregationalists. Kansas and Maine were early adopters of statewide prohibition. Following passage of the Maine law, Delaware, Ohio, Illinois, Rhode Island, Minnesota, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, and New York, among others, soon passed statewide prohibition legislation; however, a number of these laws were overturned.\n\nWomen served a special role in the temperance movement. Along with prostitution, alcohol was a vice that kept men out of their homes and caused them to oppress their wives. Carrie Nation, a middle-aged woman living in Kansas in the early 1900s, grew tired of the moral protesting and began a campaign destroying bars first in Kansas and later across the entire United States. She said once that \"almost everyone who was in jail was directly or indirectly there from the influence of intoxicating drinks,\" which encapsulated people's negative attitudes towards alcohol at the time. Nation also said, after she destroyed a painting of a nude woman, \"It is very significant that the pictures of naked women are in saloons. Women are stripped of everything by them. Her husband is torn from her, she is robbed of her sons, her home, her food, and her virtue, and then they strip her clothes off and hang her up bare of all things!\"\n\nAs temperance groups continued to promote prohibition, other groups opposed increased alcohol restrictions. For example, Chicago's citizens fought against enforcing Sunday closings laws in the 1850s, which included mob violence. It was also during this time when patent medicines, many of which contained alcohol, gained popularity. During the American Civil War efforts at increasing federal revenue included imposition of taxes on liquor and beer. The liquor industry responded to the taxes by forming an industry lobby, the United States Brewers Association, that succeeded in reducing the tax rate on beer from $1 to 60 cents. The Women's Crusade of 1873 and the Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), founded in 1874, \"marked the formal entrance of women into the temperance movement.\" Organizations such as the Women's Christian Temperance Movement were a venue through which certain women organized and demanded political action, well before they were granted the vote. The WCTU and the Prohibition Party, organized in 1869, remained major players in the temperance movement until the early twentieth century, when the Anti-Saloon League, formed in 1895, emerged as the movement's leader.\n\nBetween 1880 and 1890, although several states enacted local option laws that allowed counties or towns to go dry by referendum, only six states had statewide prohibition by state statute or constitutional amendment. The League, with the support of evangelical Protestant churches and other Progressive-era reformers continued to press for prohibition legislation. Opposition to prohibition was strong in America's urban industrial centers, where a large, immigrant, working-class population generally opposed it, as did Jewish and Catholic religious groups. In the years leading up to World War I, nativism, American patriotism, distrust of immigrants, and anti-German sentiment became associated with the prohibition movement. Through the use of pressure politics on legislators, the League and other temperance reformers achieved the goal of nationwide prohibition by emphasizing the need to destroy the moral corruption of the saloons and the political power of the brewing industry, and to reduce domestic violence in the home. By 1913 nine states had stateside prohibition and thirty-one others had local option laws in effect, which included nearly fifty percent of the U.S. population. At that time the League and other reformers turned their efforts toward attaining a constitutional amendment and grassroots support for nationwide prohibition.\n\nIn December 1917, after two previous attempts had failed (one in 1913; the other in 1915), Congress approved a resolution to submit a constitutional amendment on nationwide prohibition to the states for ratification. The new constitutional amendment prohibited \"the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes\". On January 8, 1918, Mississippi became the first state to ratify the amendment; the thirty-sixth state to do so, Nebraska, ratified it on January 16, 1919, assuring its passage into law. On October 28, 1919, Congress passed the National Prohibition Act, also known as the Volstead Act, which provided enabling legislation to implement the Eighteenth Amendment. When the National Prohibition Act was passed on October 28, 1919, thirty-three of the forty-eight states were already dry. Congress ratified the Eighteenth Amendment on January 16, 1920; nationwide prohibition began the next day.\n\nDuring the first years of Prohibition, the new law was enforced in regions such as the rural South and western states, where it had popular support; however, in large urban cities and small industrial or mining towns, residents defied or ignored the law. The Ku Klux Klan was a major supporter of Prohibition; once it was passed they helped with its enforcement. For example, in 1923, Klansmen traded pistol shots with bootleggers, burned down roadhouses, and whipped liquor sellers, and anybody else who broke the moral code. The Prohibition was effective in reducing per-capita consumption, and consumption remained lower for a quarter-century after Prohibition had been repealed. Sale of alcoholic beverages remained illegal during Prohibition, but alcoholic drinks were still available. Large quantities of alcohol were smuggled into the United States from Canada, over land, by sea routes along both ocean coasts, and through the Great Lakes, and alcohol was diverted from the limited exceptions to the Volsted Act: medicinal and religious. While the federal government cracked down on alcohol consumption on land within the United States, it was a different story along the U.S. coastlines, where vessels outside the 3-mile limit were exempt. In addition, home brewing was popular during Prohibition. Malt and hops stores popped up across the country and some former breweries turned to selling malt extract syrup, ostensibly for baking and beverage purposes.\n\nProhibition became increasingly unpopular during the Great Depression. Some believe that the demand for increased employment and tax revenues during this time brought an end to Prohibition. Others argue it was the result of the economic motivations of American businessmen as well as the stress and excesses of the era that kept it from surviving, even under optimal economic conditions.\n\nThe repeal movement was initiated and financed by the Association Against the Prohibition Amendment, who worked to elect Congressmen who agreed to support repeal. The group's wealthy supporters included John D. Rockefeller, Jr., S. S. Kresge, and the Du Pont family, among others, who had abandoned the dry cause. Pauline Sabin, a wealthy Republican who founded the Women's Organization for National Prohibition Reform (WONPR), argued that Prohibition should be repealed because it made the United States a nation of hypocrites and undermined its respect for the rule of law. This hypocrisy and the fact that women had initially led the prohibition movement convinced Sabin to establish the WONPR. Their efforts eventually led to the repeal of prohibition.\nWhen Sabin's fellow Republicans would not support her efforts, she went to the Democrats, who switched their support of the dry cause to endorse repeal under the leadership of liberal politicians such as Fiorello La Guardia and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Sabin and her supporters emphasized that repeal would generate enormous sums of much-needed tax revenue, and weaken the base of organized crime.\n\nRepeal of Prohibition was accomplished with the ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment on December 5, 1933. Under its terms, states were allowed to set their own laws for the control of alcohol.\n\nFollowing repeal, public interest in an organized prohibition movement dwindled. However, it survived for a while in a few southern and border states. To this day, there are still counties and parishes within the US known as \"dry\", where the sale of alcohol – liquor, and sometimes wine and beer – is prohibited. Several such municipalities have adopted liquor-by-the-drink, however, in order to expand tax revenue. Some municipalities regulate when alcohol can be sold; an example is restricting or banning sales on Sunday, under the so-called \"blue laws\".\n\nAl Capone was the most notorious gangster of his generation. Born on January 17, 1899 in Brooklyn, New York; Capone settled in Chicago to take over Johnny Torrio's business dealing with outlawed liquor. Within three years, Capone had nearly 700 men at his disposal. As the profits came in, Capone acquired finesse—particularly in the management of politicians. By the middle of the decade, he had gained control of the suburb of Cicero, and had installed his own mayor. Capone's rise to fame did not come without bloodshed. Rival gangs, such as the Gennas and the Aiellos, started wars with Capone, eventually leading to a rash of killings. In 1927, Capone and his gang were pulling in approximately $60 million per year—most of it from beer. Capone not only controlled the sale of liquor to over 10,000 speakeasies, but he also controlled the supply from Canada to Florida. Capone was imprisoned in 1929 for tax violations and died January 25, 1947, from a heart attack, pneumonia, and syphilis.\n\nIn Venezuela, twenty-four hours before every election, the government prohibits the sale and distribution of alcoholic beverages throughout the national territory, including the restriction to all dealers, liquor stores, supermarkets, restaurants, wineries, pubs, bars, public entertainment, clubs and any establishment that markets alcoholic beverages. This is done to prevent violent alcohol-induced confrontations because of the high political polarization.\n\nThe same is done during Holy Week as a measure to reduce the alarming rate of road traffic accidents during these holidays.\n\nThe Australian Capital Territory (then the Federal Capital Territory) was the first jurisdiction in Australia to have prohibition laws. In 1911, King O'Malley, then Minister of Home Affairs, shepherded laws through Parliament preventing new issue or transfer of licences to sell alcohol, to address unruly behaviour among workers building the new capital city. Prohibition was partial, since possession of alcohol purchased outside of the Territory remained legal and the few pubs that had existing licences could continue to operate. The Federal Parliament repealed the laws after residents of the Federal Capital Territory voted for the end of them in a 1928 plebiscite.\n\nSince then, some local councils have enacted local dry zones in which possession or consumption of alcohol is forbidden. Nearly all dry zones are only a district within a larger community. Notable among those remaining in existence is the Adelaide city centre.\n\nMore recently, alcohol has been prohibited in many remote indigenous communities. Penalties for transporting alcohol into these \"dry\" communities are severe and can result in confiscation of any vehicles involved; in dry areas within the Northern Territory, all vehicles used to transport alcohol are seized.\n\nIn New Zealand, prohibition was a moralistic reform movement begun in the mid-1880s by the Protestant evangelical and Nonconformist churches and the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and after 1890 by the Prohibition League. It assumed that individual virtue was all that was needed to carry the colony forward from a pioneering society to a more mature one, but it never achieved its goal of national prohibition. However, both the Church of England and the largely Irish Catholic Church rejected prohibition as an intrusion of government into the church's domain, while the growing labor movement saw capitalism rather than alcohol as the enemy.\n\nReformers hoped that the women's vote, in which New Zealand was a pioneer, would swing the balance, but the women were not as well organized as in other countries. Prohibition had a majority in a national referendum in 1911, but needed a 60% vote to pass. The movement kept trying in the 1920s, losing three more referenda by close votes; it managed to keep in place a 6pm closing hour for pubs and Sunday closing. The Depression and war years effectively ended the movement. but their 6pm closing hour remained until October 1967 when it was extended to 10pm.\n\nFor many years, referenda were held for individual towns or electorates, often coincident with general elections. The ballots determined whether these individual areas would be \"dry\" – that is, alcohol could not be purchased or consumed in public in these areas. One notable example was the southern city of Invercargill, which was dry from 1907 to 1943. People wanting alcohol usually travelled to places outside the city (such as the nearby township of Lorneville or the town of Winton) to drink in the local pubs or purchase alcohol to take back home. The last bastion of this 'dry' area remains in force in the form of a licensing trust which still to this day governs the sale of liquor in Invercargill. The city does not allow the sale of alcohol (beer and wine included) in supermarkets unlike the remainder of New Zealand, and all form of alcohol regardless of the sort can only be sold in bars and liquor stores.\n\nProhibition was of limited success in New Zealand as—like in other countries—it led to organised bootlegging. The most famous bootlegged alcohol in New Zealand was that produced in the Hokonui Hills close to the town of Gore (not coincidentally, the nearest large town to Invercargill). Even today, the term \"Hokonui\" conjures up images of illicit whisky to many New Zealanders.\n\nIn many countries in Latin America, the Philippines, Turkey and several US states, the sale but not the consumption of alcohol is prohibited before and during elections.\n\n"}
{"id": "37728341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37728341", "title": "Project Cloud Gap", "text": "Project Cloud Gap\n\nProject Cloud Gap: Demonstrated Destruction of Nuclear Weapons was a program run by the United States Department of Defense and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency from 1963 to 1967 (or 1969, according to other sources) whose purpose was to \"test the technical feasibility of potential arms control and disarmament measures\". Arms control agreements discussed between the United States and the Soviet Union would involve on-site inspections, and such techniques - which involved giant drilling rigs and helicopter overflights to detect secret underground testing - were field-tested by Cloud Gap. The program was abandoned after a helicopter crash during a mock inspection exercise killed several team members.\n\nCloud Gap's aborted work culminated in \"Field Test 34\", \"an extensive mock dismantlement exercise\" which demonstrated two things: if any party to a treaty attempted to cheat, the risk of detection was significant, and the party that cooperated and allowed for on-site inspection would see \"significant amounts of classified information be put at risk and invariably lost\".\n"}
{"id": "23565461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23565461", "title": "Qin's wars of unification", "text": "Qin's wars of unification\n\nQin's wars of unification were a series of military campaigns launched in the late 3rd century BC by the Qin state against the other six major states — Han, Zhao, Yan, Wei, Chu and Qi — within the territories that formed modern China. By the end of the wars in 221 BC, Qin had unified most of the states and occupied some lands south of the Yangtze River. The territories conquered by Qin served as the foundation of the Qin dynasty.\n\nOver the course of the Warring States period, the Qin state had evolved to become the most powerful of the seven major states in China. In 238 BC, Ying Zheng, the King of Qin, took over the reins of power after eliminating his political rivals Lü Buwei and Lao Ai. With help from Li Si, Wei Liao (尉繚) and others, Ying Zheng formulated a plan for conquering the other six major states and unifying China. The plan, which focuses on annexing each state individually, is based on \"allying with distant states and attacking nearby ones\", one of the Thirty-Six Stratagems. Its key steps were: ally with Yan and Qi, deter Wei and Chu, and conquer Han and Zhao.\n\nHan was the weakest of the seven states and had previously been subject to numerous attacks by Qin, which caused it to be drastically and further weakened. In 230 BC, the Qin army led by Interior Minister Teng (內史騰) moved south, crossed the Yellow River and conquered Zheng (鄭; present-day Xinzheng, Henan), the capital of Han, within one year. King An of Han surrendered and Han came under Qin control. The territory of Han was reorganised to form the Qin Empire's Yingchuan Commandery (潁川郡), with the commandery capital at Yangzhai (陽翟; present-day Yuzhou, Henan).\n\nIn 236 BC, while Zhao was attacking Yan, Qin used the opportunity to send two separate forces to invade Zhao. The Qin army led by Wang Jian conquered the Zhao territories of Eyu (閼與; present-day Heshun County, Shanxi) and Liaoyang (撩陽; present-day Zuoquan County, Shanxi), while the other Qin army under the command of Huan Yi (桓齮) and Yang Duanhe (楊端和) captured Ye (鄴; in present-day Handan, Hebei) and Anyang (安陽; present-day Anyang County, Henan). Zhao lost nine cities and its military prowess was weakened.\n\nTwo years later, Qin planned to attack Han, but feared that Zhao might support Han, so it ordered Huan Yi to lead an army to attack Zhao's Pingyang (平陽; southeast of present-day Ci County, Hebei) and Wucheng (武城; southwest of present-day Ci County, Hebei). More than 100,000 soldiers were killed in the battle. The Zhao army was defeated and its commander, Hu Zhe (扈輒), was killed in action. In 233 BC, Huan Yi's army crossed Mount Taihang and conquered the Zhao territories of Chili (赤麗) and Yi'an (宜安), both located southeast of present-day Shijiazhuang, Hebei.\n\nIn 232 BC, the Qin forces split into two groups to attack Fanwu (番吾; present-day Lingshou County, Hebei) and Langmeng (狼孟; present-day Yangqu County, Shanxi), but were defeated by the Zhao army led by Li Mu. Huan Yi fled to Yan to escape punishment for his defeat. However, the Zhao forces also sustained heavy losses and could only retreat to defend their capital, Handan.\n\nIn the following two years, Zhao was struck by two natural disasters — an earthquake and a severe famine. In 229 BC, Qin took advantage of the situation to launch a pincer attack from the north and south on Handan, Zhao's capital. Three Qin armies embarked from Shangdi (上地; in present-day northern Shaanxi), Jingxing (井陉; present-day Jingxing County, Hebei) and Henei (河內; present-day Xinxiang, Henan), respectively led by Wang Jian, Jiang Lei (羌瘣) and Yang Duanhe, to coordinate the attack on Handan. Li Mu and Sima Shang (司馬尚) were put in command of the Zhao army. Li Mu ordered his troops to build defensive structures and avoid direct confrontation with the enemy. The Qin forces were unable to advance further and both sides reached a stalemate.\n\nThe Qin state bribed Guo Kai (郭開), a Zhao minister, to sow discord between King Qian of Zhao (趙王遷) and Li Mu. The king doubted Li Mu's loyalty and ordered Li Mu to hand over his authority to his deputies, Zhao Cong (趙蔥) and Yan Ju (顏聚). When Li Mu refused to obey, the king became more suspicious of him and ordered his men to take Li Mu by surprise and capture him. Li Mu was executed in prison later on King Qian's order. In 228 BC, after learning that Li Mu had been replaced, the Qin forces attacked, defeated the Zhao army and conquered Dongyang (東陽; east of Mount Taihang). Zhao Cong was killed in action while Yan Ju escaped after his defeat. Seven months later, Qin forces occupied Handan and captured King Qian, bringing an end to Zhao's existence.\n\nPrince Jia, King Qian's elder brother, escaped from Handan and went to Dai (within present-day Yu County in northwestern Hebei), where, with help from some Zhao remnants, he declared himself the King of Dai. In 222 BC, Dai was conquered by the Qin army led by Wang Jian's son, Wang Ben. Prince Jia was taken captive.\n\nIn 228 BC, after the fall of Zhao, Wang Jian led the Qin army stationed at Zhongshan to prepare for an offensive on Yan. Ju Wu (鞠武), a Yan minister, proposed to King Xi of Yan to form alliances with Dai, Qi and Chu, and make peace with the Xiongnu in the north, in order to counter the Qin invasion. However, Crown Prince Dan felt that the alliance strategy was unlikely to succeed, so he sent Jing Ke to assassinate Ying Zheng, the king of Qin. Jing Ke went to Qin by pretending to be an envoy, bringing with him a map of Dukang and the head of Fan Wuji, a Qin turncoat general. Jing Ke failed and died in his attempt to assassinate Ying Zheng.\n\nIn 226 BC, using the assassination attempt as an excuse, Ying Zheng ordered Wang Jian to lead an army to attack Yan, with Meng Wu (蒙武) serving as Wang Jian's deputy. The Qin forces defeated the Yan army and Yan's reinforcements from Dai in a battle on the eastern bank of the Yi River (易水), after which they conquered Ji (薊; present-day Beijing), the capital of Yan. King Xi of Yan and his son, Crown Prince Dan, led their remaining forces on a retreat to the Liaodong Peninsula. A Qin army led by Li Xin pursued the retreating Yan forces to the Yan River (衍水; present-day Hun River, Liaoning), where they engaged enemy forces and destroyed the bulk of the Yan army. Later, King Xi ordered Crown Prince Dan's execution and sent his son's head to Qin as an \"apology\" for the assassination attempt. Qin accepted the \"apology\" and did not attack Yan for the next three years.\n\nIn 222 BC, the Qin army led by Wang Ben invaded Liaodong and destroyed Yan's remaining forces and captured King Xi, bringing an end to Yan's existence. The former territories of Yan were partitioned and reorganised to form the Qin Empire's Yuyang (漁陽), Beiping (北平), Liaoxi (遼西) and Liaodong (遼東) commanderies.\n\nIn 225 BCE, a 600,000 strong Qin army led by Wang Ben conquered more than ten cities on the northern border of Chu as a precautionary move to guard the flank from possible attacks from Chu while Qin was invading Wei. Wang Ben then led his forces north to attack and besiege Daliang (大梁; northwest of present-day Kaifeng, Henan), the capital of Wei. As Daliang was situated at the concourse of the Sui and Ying rivers and the Hong Canal (鴻溝), its geographical location gave it a natural defensive advantage. Besides, the moat around Daliang was very wide and all the five gates of the city had drawbridges, making it even more difficult for Qin forces to breach the city walls. The Wei troops used the opportunity to strengthen their fortifications and defences.\n\nWang Ben came up with the idea of directing the waters from the Yellow River and the Hong Canal to flood Daliang. Wang Ben's troops worked for three months to redirect the water flow while maintaining the siege on Daliang, and succeeded in their plan. Daliang was heavily flooded and over 100,000 people died, including civilians. King Jia of Wei (魏王假) surrendered and Wei came under Qin control. Qin established the commanderies of Dang (碭) and Sishui (泗水) in the former Wei territories.\n\nIn 224 BC, Ying Zheng called for a meeting with his subjects to discuss his plans for the invasion of Chu. Wang Jian felt that they needed at least 600,000 troops for the campaign, while Li Xin claimed that 200,000 men would suffice. Ying Zheng dismissed Wang Jian's idea and ordered Li Xin and Meng Tian to lead an army of about 200,000 to attack Chu. Wang Jian retired on the grounds of illness.\n\nThe Qin armies scored initial victories as Li Xin's force conquered Pingyu (平輿; north of present-day Pingyu County, Henan) while Meng Tian's captured Qinqiu (寢丘; present-day Linquan County, Anhui). After conquering Yan (鄢; present-day Yanling County, Henan), Li Xin led his army west to rendezvous with Meng Tian at Chengfu (城父; east of present-day Baofeng County, Henan). The Chu army, led by Xiang Yan (項燕), had been avoiding using its main force to resist the Qin invaders while waiting for an opportunity to launch a counterattack. During this time, Lord Changping, a relative of Ying Zheng who descended from the Chu royal family, incited a rebellion in a city previously conquered by Li Xin. He also prepared for a surprise attack on Li Xin later.\n\nThe Chu army led by Xiang Yan secretly followed Li Xin at high speed for three days and three nights before launching a surprise attack. Lord Changping's forces followed suit from behind and joined Xiang Yan's army in attacking Li Xin. Most of Li Xin's forces were destroyed in the battle.\n\nUpon learning of Li Xin's defeat, Ying Zheng personally visited Wang Jian, who was in retirement, apologised for not heeding Wang Jian's advice earlier, and invited him back to serve in the army. He approved Wang Jian's request and put him in command of 600,000 troops, in addition to assigning Meng Wu to serve as Wang Jian's deputy. Wang Jian was aware that the king would doubt his loyalty because he wielded too much military power, so he frequently sent messengers back to the king to request for rewards for his family, so that the king would be less suspicious of him.\n\nIn 224 BC, Wang Jian's army passed through the south of Chen (陳; present-day Huaiyang County, Henan) and made camp at Pingyu. The Chu forces, led by Xiang Yan, used their full strength to launch an offensive on the Qin camp but failed. Wang Jian ordered his troops to defend their positions firmly and avoid advancing further into Chu territory. After failing to lure the Qin army to attack, Xiang Yan ordered a retreat and Wang Jian seized the opportunity to launch a surprise counterattack. The Qin forces pursued the retreating Chu forces to Qinan (蕲南; northwest of present-day Qichun County, Hubei), where Xiang Yan was killed in action in the ensuing battle.\n\nIn 223 BC, Qin launched another attack on Chu and captured Shouchun (壽春; present-day Shou County, Anhui), the capital of Chu. Fuchu, the king of Chu, was captured and Chu was annexed by Qin. The following year, Wang Jian and Meng Wu led the Qin army to attack the Wuyue region (covering present-day Zhejiang and Jiangsu), which was inhabited by the Baiyue, and captured the descendants of the royal family of the ancient Yue state. The conquered Wuyue territories became the Qin Empire's Kuaiji Commandery.\n\nIn 264 BC, Tian Jian became the king of Qi. However, as he was too young to rule, his mother the queen dowager became his regent. Qin bribed Hou Sheng (後勝), the chancellor of Qi, to dissuade King Jian from helping the other states while they were being attacked by Qin. By 221 BC, Qi was the only state in China yet to be conquered by Qin. Qi hurriedly mobilised its armies to its western borders as a safeguard against a possible Qin invasion, even though its military was not well equipped and morale was low.\n\nIn the same year, Ying Zheng used Qi's rejection of a meeting with a Qin envoy as an excuse to attack Qi. The Qin army, led by Li Xin, avoided direct confrontation with enemy forces stationed on Qi's western borders, and advanced into Qi's heartland via a southern detour from Yan. The Qin forces met with little resistance as they passed through Qi territory and eventually arrived at Linzi (north of present-day Zibo, Shandong), the capital of Qi. King Jian was caught by surprise. When Hou Sheng urged him to surrender, he heeded Hou Sheng's advice and surrendered to Qin without putting up a fight. The former territories of Qi were reorganised to form the Qin Empire's Qi (齊) and Langya (琅邪) commanderies.\n\nIn 221 BC, after the conquest of Qi, Ying Zheng proclaimed himself \"Qin Shi Huang\" (秦始皇; literally \"First Emperor of Qin\") and established the Qin dynasty. The Qin Empire was divided into 36 commanderies, with Xianyang as the imperial capital. Qin Shi Huang created a centralised state and empire that would become the bedrock of future Chinese dynasties. Although the Qin dynasty lasted 15 years only, its influence on Chinese history lasted for centuries to come.\n\nIn 209 BC, during the reign of Qin Er Shi, Qin Shi Huang's son and successor, Chen Sheng and Wu Guang started an uprising in Dazexiang to overthrow the Qin dynasty due to the Qin government's brutal and oppressive policies. Although the revolt was crushed by imperial forces, several other rebellions also started consecutively all over China over the next three years. The last Qin ruler, Ziying, surrendered to a rebel force led by Liu Bang in 206 BC, bringing an end to the Qin dynasty. Several of the rebel forces claimed to be restoring the former states that were annexed by Qin and numerous pretenders to the thrones of the former states emerged. In 206 BC, Xianyang was occupied and sacked by the forces of Xiang Yu, a descendant of the Chu general Xiang Yan.\n\n"}
{"id": "34135820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34135820", "title": "Re-election (Football League)", "text": "Re-election (Football League)\n\nThe Re-election system of the Football League, in use until 1986, was a process where the worst placed clubs of the league had to reapply for their place in the league while non-league clubs could apply for a league place. It was the only way for a non-league side to enter the Football League until direct promotion and relegation were introduced from the 1986–87 season onwards. The clubs placed on a re-election rank at the end of a season had to face their Football League peers at the Annual General Meeting of the league. At the AGM the league members had the choice to either vote to retain the current league members or allow entry to the league for applying non-league clubs.\n\nRe-election had existed as early as 1890 when Stoke City failed to retain their league status. During the first five seasons of the league, that is, until the season 1893–94, re-election process concerned the clubs which finished in the bottom four of the league. From the 1894–95 season and until the 1920–21 season the re-election process was required of the clubs which finished in the bottom three of the league. From the 1921–22 season on, it was used for the two last placed teams of each of the Third Division North and South. After the formation of the Fourth Division in 1958, it applied to the bottom four clubs of that league.\n\nThe club with the largest number of re-election campaigns, Hartlepool United, fourteen between 1924 and 1984, was never actually voted out of the league but a number of other clubs were, the last of those being Workington in 1977 and Southport in 1978, who lost their league places to Wimbledon and Wigan Athletic respectively.\n\nThe southern group of the Third Division was established in 1920 with the northern group following the next year. The two leagues existed in parallel until 1958 when the Fourth Division was established.\n\nIn this era, Walsall faced the most re-election campaigns, seven. Clubs that lost their league place in this time were Aberdare Athletic (1927), Durham City (1928), Ashington (1929), Merthyr Town (1930), Newport County (1931), Nelson (1931), Gillingham (1938) and New Brighton (1951).\n\nThe following clubs had to face the re-election process during the Third Division North and South era:\n\nThe Fourth Division was established in 1958 out of the bottom clubs of the two groups of the Third Division. The bottom four of the Fourth Division had to face re-election on an annual basis.\n\nIn this era, 32 clubs had to face the re-election process in 28 seasons. Of those, five failed to gain re-election: Gateshead (1960), Bradford Park Avenue (1970), Barrow (1972), Workington (1977) and Southport (1978). Elected in their stead were Peterborough United, Cambridge United, Hereford United, Wimbledon and Wigan Athletic. Geographically, all newly elected clubs were located further south than the club they replaced, a shift away from the more remote parts of northern England to the south.\n\nOf those, Gateshead was the first to lose its league place, after only two seasons in the Fourth Division. The club had joined the Football League in 1930 and faced a successful re-election campaign in 1937. The club was convinced it would be re-elected, especially with Southport making their third consecutive re-election bid. In the end, on 28 May 1960, Gateshead only achieved 18 votes, with Southport the next lowest at 29. Gateshead lost their league place to Peterborough United who made their 21st attempt at entry into the Football League.\n\nGateshead was followed ten years later by former First Division side Bradford Park Avenue. The club had been a league member since 1908 and had faced re-election five times before, being successful in 1956, 1958, 1967, 1968 and 1969. Faced with the process for the fourth year running in 1970, the club received only 17 votes and dropped out of the league while Cambridge United was voted in with 31. Unsuccessful, Wigan Athletic even achieved a higher vote then Bradford Park Avenue, reaching 18.\n\nTwo seasons later, Barrow was replaced by Hereford United.\n\nA five-year break followed before Workington was voted out of the league in 1977. The club had only joined the league in 1951, being voted in at the expense of New Brighton which they beat by ten votes. Workington faced two successful re-election campaigns in its first two seasons in the league but then did not have to apply again from 1953 to 1974. After three more successful campaigns in 1974, 1975 and 1976 the club's league membership came to an end on 17 June 1977 when Wimbledon received 27 votes and Workington only 21, finishing fifth in the tally.\n\nThe last club to lose their Football League status through a vote was Southport, who were voted out in favour of Wigan Athletic in 1978. Southport was tied with Wigan on 26 votes and a second round between the two was necessary which Wigan carried by nine votes.\n\nNo club was voted out in the following eight seasons until 1986, after which the system was abandoned in favour of direct promotion between the Football League and the Football Conference. On 23 May 1986, the last time a re-election vote was held, Exeter City, Cambridge United, Preston North End and Torquay United had their league places confirmed while Enfield was denied a place in the league.\n\nThe following clubs had to face the re-election process during the Fourth Division era:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28751213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28751213", "title": "Regional police", "text": "Regional police\n\nRegional police are a multijurisdictional police forces which cover duly recognized geopolitical regions.\n\nIn Canada, regional police forces are assigned to regional municipalities in the provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Nova Scotia, Ontario, and Quebec. In the absence of such forces, provincial police (Ontario, Quebec, Newfoundland and Labrador) or the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (rest of Canada) perform police duties for the region.\n\n\n\n\n\nThrough the formation of a \"police district\" under the control of a Police Commission, some municipalities in Pennsylvania have found that improved and more professional police services could be obtained through inter-governmental cooperation. Having one police department covering two or more neighboring communities, rather than separate police departments, allows each municipality to enjoy the benefits of a larger department, such as specialized units and a professional staff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "491489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=491489", "title": "Resident (title)", "text": "Resident (title)\n\nA Resident, or in full Resident Minister, is a government official required to take up permanent residence in another country. A representative of his government, he officially has diplomatic functions which are often seen as a form of indirect rule.\n\nThis full style occurred commonly as a diplomatic rank for the head of a mission ranking just below envoy, usually reflecting the relatively low status of the states of origin and/or residency, or else difficult relations.\n\nOn occasion, the Resident Minister's role could become extremely important, as when in 1806 the Bourbon king Ferdinand IV fled his Kingdom of Naples, and Lord William Bentinck, the British Resident, authored (1812) a new and relatively liberal constitution.\n\nResidents could also be posted with shadowy governments. For instance, the British sent Residents to the Mameluk Beys who ruled Baghdad province as an autonomous state (1704-1831) in the north of present-day Iraq, until the Ottoman sultans regained control over it (1831) and its Wali (governor).\n\nEven after the Congress of Vienna restored the Grand Duchy of Tuscany in 1815, the British posted a \"mere\" Resident to Florence.\n\nAs international relations developed, it became customary to give the highest title of diplomatic rank - ambassador - to the head of all permanent missions in any country, except as a temporary expression of down-graded relations or where representation was merely an interim arrangement.\n\nSome official representatives of European colonial powers, while in theory diplomats, in practice exercised a degree of indirect rule. Some such Residents were former military officers, rather than career diplomats, who resided in smaller self-governing protectorates and tributary states and acted as political advisors to the rulers. A trusted Resident could even become the \"de facto\" prime minister to a native ruler. In other respects they acted as an ambassador of their own government, but at a lower level, since even large and rich native states were usually seen as inferior to Western nations. Instead of being a representative to a single ruler, a Resident could be posted to more than one native state, or to a grouping of states which the European power decided for its convenience. This could create an artificial geographical unit, as in Residency X in some parts of the British Indian Empire.\n\nSimilar positions could carry alternative titles, such as Political Agent and Resident Commissioner.\n\nIn some cases, the intertwining of the European power with the traditional native establishment went so far that members of the native princely houses became Residents, either in other states or even within their own state, provided that they were unlikely ever to succeed as ruler of the state.\n\nA Resident's real role varied enormously, depending upon the underlying relationship between the two parties and even upon the personalities of the Resident and the ruler(s). Some residents were little more than observers and diplomats, others were seen as the \"face of the oppressor\" and were treated with hostility, while some won enough trust from the ruler that they were able to exercise great influence. In French protectorates, such as those of Morocco and Tunisia, the resident or resident general was the effective ruler of the territory.\n\nIn 1887, when both Boers and gold prospectors of all nationalities were overrunning his country, the Swazi Paramount chief Umbandine asked for a British resident, seeing this as a desirable and effective form of protection. His request was refused.\n\nThe Residents of the governments of the United Kingdom and the dominions to a variety of protectorates include:\n\n\nBritish Residents were posted in various Princely states — in major states or groups of states—in the days of British India. Often they were appointed to a single state, as with the Resident in Lucknow, the capital of Oudh; to the Maharaja Gaekwar of Baroda; to the Maharaja Sindhya of Gwalior; to the Nizam al-Mulk of Hyderabad; to the Maharaja Rana of Jhalawar; to the restored Maharaja of Mysore, after the fall of Tipu Sultan; to the Maharaja Sena Sahib Subah of the Mahratta state of Nagpur; to the (Maha)Raja of Manipur; to the (Maha)Raja of Travancore; to the Maharana of Mewar in Udaipur.\nEven when Lord Lake had broken the Mahratta power in 1803, and the Mughal emperor was taken under the protection of the East India Company, the districts of Delhi and Hissar were assigned for the maintenance of the royal family, and were administered by a British Resident, until in 1832 the whole area was annexed to \nBritish Residents were also posted in major states considered to be connected with India, neighbouring or on the sea route to it, notably:\n\nAnd elsewhere:\n\nEven in overseas territories occupied ('preventively' or conquered) to keep the French out of strategic trade and waters, residencies could be established, e.g. at Laye on Sumatra, an island returned to the Dutch East Indies\n\nSince on 5 November 1815 the United States of the Ionian Islands became a federal republic of seven islands (Corfu, Cephalonia, Zante, Santa Maura, Ithaca, Cerigo and Paxos), as a protectorate (nominally of the allied Powers; de facto UK protectorate; the highest office was the always-British Lord High Commissioner), until its 1 June 1864 incorporation into independent Greece, there were British Residents, each posted with a local Prefect, on seven individual islands, notably: Cephalonia (Kephalonia), Cerigo (Kythira), Ithaca, Paxos, Santa Maura (Leucada/Lefkada) and Zante (Zakynthos)\n\n\n\nIn the Dutch East Indies, Dutch residents and lower ranks such as assistant residents were posted alongside a number of the many native princes in present Indonesia, compare Regentschap.\n\nFor example, on Sumatra, there were Dutch Residents at Palembang, at Medan in Deli sultanate; another was posted with the Sultan of and on Ternate, and one in Bali.\n\nFrance also maintained Residents, the French word being \"Résident\".\n\nHowever the 'Jacobin' tradition of strict state authority didn't agree well with indirect rule, so often direct rule was preferred.\n\nMany were part of a white colonial hierarchy, rather than truly posted with a native ruler or chieftain.\n\n\nThis French title, meaning \"Superior\" (i.e. Senior) Resident, indicates that he had junior Residents under him.\n\nIn the German colonies, the title was also Resident; the post was called \"Residentur\".\n\n\n\nAt the \"national\" level of British Malaya, after the post of High Commissioners had been filled (1 July 1896 – 1 April 1946) by the governors of the Straits Settlements (see Singapore), Britain appointed the following Residents-general:\n\nThen there were various British Chief Secretaries 1911–1936 and two Federal Secretaries until 31 January 1942; after three Japanese Military governors, the British Governor (1 April 1946 – 1 February 1948) stayed on as first of four High Commissioners as de facto Governor-general of the Federation of Malaya until independence on 31 August 1957 saw the creation of an elective federal Paramount ruler styled Yang Dipertuan Agong (since 16 September 1961 with the addition \"bagi Malaysia\").\n\nThere were specific Residents accredited in most constituent Malay states:\n\nA similar position, under another title, was held in the other Malay states:\n\nIn the Straits Settlements, under direct British rule:\n\nOn Northern Borneo, contrary to the Malay peninsula, no such officials were appointed, in Sarawak and Sabah as there were white rulers or governors; but to the still sovereign Sultans of Brunei, lying between those larger states, British Residents were appointed 1906–1959 (interrupted by Japanese commander Masao Baba 6 January 1942 – 14 June 1945), afterwards only High Commissioners for the matters not transferred under autonomy (and 1971 self-government) until full independence went in force 1 January 1984. The administrative head of Sarawak's geographical Divisions was, however, titled as Resident.\n\nThe French word is \"Résident-général\".\n\n\n\n\nIn the protectorate Korea, accredited to the Choson Monarch (rendered as King or Emperor) 21 Dec 1905 – 1 Oct 1910 three incumbents (including Hirobumi Ito the former Prime Minister of Japan), all Japanese peers (new western-type styles, rendered as: Marquess/Duke or Viscount); the last stayed on as the first Governor-General after full annexation to Japan. See: List of Japanese Residents-General of Korea\n\nOn occasion, residents were maintained, notably by former colonial powers, in territories in a transitional process to a new constitutional status, such as full independence. Such function could also be performed under another title, such as Commissioner or High Commissioner.\n\nThus after World War I, there were Residents in some mandate territories:\n\nAlso after World War II, and not only in former mandate territories; e.g. in parts of Libya, a former Italian colony, put under UN administration since 1946 prior to their unification as a Libyan kingdom, Britain maintained a Resident in Tripolitania April 1949 – 24 December 1951 and another in Cyrenaica 17 September 1949 – 24 December 1951, and France one in Fezzan 1950 – 24 December 1951.\n\nIn a later phase a former colony could itself appoint such Residents, as India did 5 December 1950 – 16 May 1975 in its Himalayan protectorate Sikkim, then still an independent monarchy (afterwards absorbed into India as an additional constitutive state) where Britain had obtained a protectorate over the Maharaja in 1861, see above.\n\nIn the Colony of Western Australia, colonial administration and local government were sometimes controlled at the regional level, by Government Residents, under the direction of the Colonial Secretary (i.e. the \"Governor in Council\").\n\nThe main responsibility of a Government Resident was the role of Resident Magistrate, and the two titles were often used interchangeably. However, they also often directed the day to day activities of police, explorers, surveyors, customs officers and other public servants.\nGovernment Residents were appointed (at various times), at Augusta, Busselton, Carnarvon (Gascoyne District), Champion Bay (Geraldton), Derby (Kimberley District, later West Kimberley), Fremantle, Guildford, King George's Sound (Albany), Newcastle (Toodyay), the North District (Camden Harbour/Roebourne), Port Leschenault (Bunbury), Wyndham (East Kimberley) and York.\n\nIn the Northern Territory, under the authority of the Governor of New South Wales, after having been merely under Military Commanders: 3 March 1864 – 1 January 1911, at which date it became a separate territory but the last incumbent stayed on as first of six Administrators; then again 1 February 1927 Robert Hunter Weddell was Government Resident for North Australia, until from 12 June 1931. Administrators were (and still are) appointed, even after 1978 when self-government was granted.\n1 March 1927 – 12 June 1931, while the Northern Territory was split, there were two consecutive incumbents for Central Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8127762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8127762", "title": "SWANU", "text": "SWANU\n\nThe South West Africa National Union (SWANU) is a Namibian political party founded in 1959. Most of its members came from the Herero people, while fellow independence movement SWAPO was mostly an Ovambo party. The party's President is Usutuaije Maamberua.\n\nThe first President of SWANU was Fanuel Kozonguizi, who led from its formation in 1959 until 1966. Rihupisa Justus Kandando was the President prior to Maamberua.\n\nFor 1999 elections it formed a \"Socialist Alliance\" with the Workers' Revolutionary Party and got 0.35% of the vote. In the 2004 elections it finished last with 3,610 votes and 0.44% of the vote.\n\nSWANU had its roots in the South West African Student Bureau (SWASB), an association of Namibian students studying at South African universities during the 1950s. The students had been radicalised by their firsthand exposure to apartheid in South Africa, and the active resistance to that system by the African National Congress (ANC). In 1955, the SWASB became a political party in its own right in 1955, when its members renamed it the South West African Progressive Association (SWAPA) and appointed Uatja Kaukuetu as its first chairman. \n\nSWAPA possessed little support outside academia, however, and in an attempt to expand its support base it united with the Ovamboland People's Congress (later the \"Ovamboland People's Organisation\", or OPO), which represented Ovambo migrant labourers in Cape Town, to form the South West African National Union (SWANU) on 27 September 1959. However, SWANU's leadership and agenda remained dominated by former SWAPA members, and OPO retained its autonomy under the partnership. Fanuel Jariretundu Kozonguizi was named the first president of SWANU, with Kaukuetu, the chairman of SWAPA, being appointed vice president. The party eventually came under the direct sponsorship of the South African Communist Party and became increasingly radical as a result. Throughout late 1959, SWANU and the Herero Chiefs' Council organised a bus boycott in Windhoek's Old Location, in response to forced evictions being undertaken by the South African Police. The police opened fire on the protesters, killing or wounding up to sixty.\n\nThe Old Location shootings was the first of several political developments which ushered in a period of decline for SWANU. In the controversy surrounding the incident, the Herero Chiefs' Council disavowed SWANU and denied involvement with the Old Location protests. In July 1960, the OPO dissolved its affiliation with SWANU and issued its own party constitution. It also rebranded itself as the South West African People's Organisation (SWAPO) and opened its ranks to Namibians of all ethnic backgrounds. SWAPO's agenda was virtually identical to SWANU's: both called for an end to colonialism and imperialism, promoted pan-African ideals, and called for the economic, cultural, and social advancement of the Namibian people. However, SWANU placed a disproportionate emphasis on self-reliance, while SWAPO acknowledged the importance of external actors and the role of the United Nations in securing Namibian independence from South Africa. \n\nBoth organisations competed for international recognition and support, and the relationship between SWAPO and SWANU's leadership grew increasingly frigid. SWANU was the only one of the two parties formally represented in the All-African People's Conference, the Afro-Asian People's Solidarity Organisation, and the Anti-Apartheid Movement. It had established a political headquarters in Dar es Salaam and political offices in Accra and Cairo.\n\nBoth SWANU and SWAPO received formal recognition from the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) in 1963. They also succeeded in establishing bilateral relations with the Soviet Union and People's Republic of China. The growing severity of the Sino-Soviet split drove a rift between the two parties, however, with SWANU becoming more influenced ideologically and politically by China, and SWAPO by the Soviet Union. \n\nBy 1966, the OAU had raised £20,000 in obligatory contributions from OAU member states for funding nationalist movements in Namibia. Kozonguizi was initially confident the money would be awarded to SWANU due to its international prominence and the fact that many of its members had been educated at prestigious institutions, namely in the United States and Western Europe. However, the OAU's official policy was to base its support for anti-colonial movements on their willingness to use force if necessary. The money was offered to both SWANU and SWAPO for the express purposes of undertaking an armed struggle against South African rule. Kozonguizi refused to make a commitment to armed struggle; whether this was due to his personal preference for passive resistance or whether he was simply skeptical about the wisdom of taking up arms against the well-equipped South African security forces is disputed. The repercussions of his decision were politically catastrophic for SWANU. SWAPO was able to argue that its willingness to initiate armed struggle gave it legitimacy in the eyes of the Namibian people that SWANU lacked. The OAU immediately withdrew recognition from SWANU and awarded the £20,000 to SWAPO. It also recognised SWAPO as the sole authentic representative of the Namibian people. This doomed any remaining prospects SWANU held for receiving assistance from the OAU or any black African government.\n\nThe following year, SWANU was expelled from the Afro-Asian People's Conference. Its continued affiliation with the People's Republic of China made it unpopular, as both the Western nations and the Soviet bloc came to regard it as a Chinese proxy. Tanzanian authorities closed SWANU's headquarters in Dar es Salaam and ordered the party to leave Tanzania. Zambia, another country which had been initially sympathetic to SWANU, began refusing to accept Namibian refugees who were members of that party. With SWANU exiles considered prohibited immigrants in both Zambia and Tanzania, they were forced to settle almost solely in Botswana. Botswana was willing to accept Namibian refugees, but forbade them from engaging in politics.\n\nFrom 1968 onward the party declined into political obscurity and played no major role in the Namibian independence process. SWANU did make a belated attempt to raise its own guerrilla army, which was not formally established until 1975. The OAU was unimpressed and declared it would sanction only one guerrilla army in Namibia. It urged SWANU guerrillas to join the People's Liberation Army of Namibia (PLAN), SWAPO's armed wing, instead. Aside from China and initially, Egypt, no countries were willing to supply training or arms to SWANU. SWANU's requests for military aid from various socialist states in the Soviet sphere such as Nicaragua and Vietnam were rejected. Most of these states had already offered support to PLAN, and the negative examples of Angola and Zimbabwe, where rival guerrilla armies ultimately fought each other, were frequently cited as a pretext for declining aid to SWANU. SWANU did establish one guerrilla training camp in Botswana at Dukwe, where it succeeded in smuggling some weapons. However, most of its preparations for armed struggle were purely theoretical in nature and due to Botswana's refusal to endorse guerrilla camps on its soil, all training had to be conducted on a covert basis. For the duration of the South African Border War, SWANU insurgents were confined to the Dukwe camp and did not participate in the hostilities.\n\nSWANU is a democratic socialist and nationalist party.\n\nIn January 2009, SWANU condemned Israel for their actions during the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict. Calling for an immediate ceasefire and withdrawal from the Palestinian territories, the party called for the severing of Namibian trade and diplomatic relations with Israel.\n\nOn the issue of land reform, SWANU advocated for state intervention to bring about reform more quickly. It also criticised the Ministry of Lands and Resettlement for allegedly resettling politicians on land acquired for redistribution instead of the \"poorest of the poor\". It also called for greater political will for land reform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42265653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42265653", "title": "Terror in Resonance", "text": "Terror in Resonance\n\n, also known as Terror in Tokyo, is a Japanese anime television series produced by MAPPA. The anime was directed by Shinichirō Watanabe, with character designs by Kazuto Nakazawa and music by Yoko Kanno. The anime began airing on Fuji TV's Noitamina block on July 10, 2014, and its final episode aired on September 25, 2014. In total, it was made up of 11 episodes. Funimation acquired North American streaming rights and released an English dub on DVD on January 19, 2016. Anime Limited and Madman Entertainment acquired streaming rights for the UK and Australia, respectively. Funimation premiered the series at Anime Expo on July 5, 2014.\n\nIn an alternate iteration of the present, Tokyo has been hit by a terrorist attack that has devastated the city. The only evidence of the culprits is a cryptic video uploaded to the Internet, which sparks paranoia across Japan. Unbeknownst to the authorities is that the terrorist masterminds—who call themselves —are two teenaged boys who go by the names Nine and Twelve. Though they apparently should not exist, they have nonetheless decided to \"wake up the world\" with their heinous plans of destruction, with their fingers on the trigger.\n\n\nThe series' soundtrack is composed by Yoko Kanno. The opening theme song is \"Trigger\", composed by Kanno and performed by former Galileo Galilei vocalist Yuuki Ozaki. The ending theme song is , composed by Kanno and performed by Aimer. \"Terror in Resonance Original Soundtrack 2 -crystalized-\" was released on October 22, 2014. Artwork design by Ingibjörg Birgisdóttir.\n\nDirector Shinichirō Watanabe stated in interview with Otaku USA Magazine that the music of Icelandic band Sigur Rós was the inspiration for the show and its soundtrack. \n\nOn June 12, 2015, the Chinese Ministry of Culture listed \"Terror in Resonance\" among 38 anime and manga titles banned in China.\n\n"}
{"id": "47426889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47426889", "title": "The Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB)", "text": "The Association of World Election Bodies (A-WEB)\n\nThe Association of World Election Bodies, commonly referred to as ‘A-WEB,’ was established on October 14, 2013 in Song-do, South Korea. A-WEB is the first global organization of election management bodies, and the membership currently consists of 97 organizations from 94 countries. Under the slogan of ‘Democracy to Grow for All Worldwide,’ the A-WEB Secretariat provides training programs for election officials of member nations and undertakes country programs at the request of member organization, providing support during the election cycle to boost election management capacity.\n\nThe National Election Commission of the Republic of Korea first proposed the creation of a global election management body institution to the Association of Asian Election Authorities (AAEA) in 2010. After a series of Working Group meetings, a Charter was drawn up and the name A-WEB was chosen upon the suggestion of the Election Commission of India.\n\nA-WEB was inaugurated on October 14, 2013. Over 400 participants from 140 election management bodies, international organizations and non-governmental organizations attended the ceremony in Song-do South Korea, where the Secretariat was established. 97 organizations gained membership into A-WEB.\n\nA-WEB essentially has three main bodies. The Executive Board serves the executive function and meets yearly to make decisions on A-WEB’s general direction. It consists of up to ten member organizations and the Board must maintain a continental balance. The more members there are from a particular continent, the more members of the Executive Board should be from that continent. The Executive Board is headed by a Chairperson who leads the meetings of the board.\n\nThe remaining members make up the second body, the General Assembly. The General Assembly convenes once every two years and votes are important issues related to A-WEB and decisions made by the Executive Board. The General Assembly also elects the members of the Executive Board and confirms the induction of new member organizations.\n\nFinally, the secretariat carries out the general administrative work of A-WEB and is based in the country where the Secretary General (elected by the Executive Board) resides. Currently the secretariat is based in Song-do, South Korea. Other member countries send secondee staff to operate the office.\n\nA-WEB currently undertakes most of its training programs in the secretariat main office. These training programs are broken into two broad categories; A-WEB’s own training projects and those in collaboration with other organizations such as the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KIOCA) and the Korea Civic Education Institute (KOCEI). In total, A-WEB has trained 622 election officials from 72 countries.\n\nA-WEB also undertakes large-scale country projects at the request of member organizations. The first is in Kyrgyzstan alongside the country’s Central Election Commission. The program aims to introduce the Precinct Count Optical Scan (PCOS) election system into Kyrgyzstan elections scheduled on October 4, 2015. The other country program currently underway is in Kenya alongside the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, where A-WEB is working to develop election ICT and the capacity of the organization ahead of general elections in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55460305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55460305", "title": "The Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy - Tripoli", "text": "The Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy - Tripoli\n\nThe Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy - Tripoli is an active campaign in Libya’s capital and largest city, Tripoli, to reinstate the 1951 Constitution and the historic Senussi monarchy. Members of the movement view the 1951 Constitution as the only political solution to the Libyan Civil War that has persisted since 2011. The members of the movement advocate for the legitimate heir to the Senussi Crown Prince Mohammed El Senussi, son of Crown Prince Hasan as-Senussi and nephew of late King Idris, to lead Libya according to the provisions of the 1951 Constitution.\n\nTripoli’s Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy, which has been active for a number of years, is part of the nationwide Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy in Libya which is also active in Tobruk, Zliten, Jebel Akhdar and Misurata. \n\nThe members of the movement in Tripoli view the 1951 Constitution as the basis for establishing national sovereignty and returning stability to the Libyan homeland. \n\nThe movement in Tripoli has been active for several years and has had a social media presence on Facebook since early 2014. In 2014 it proclaimed:\n\"The movement for the return to constitutional legitimacy provides a vision aimed at stabilizing the political situation in the country, based on the return of constitutional legitimacy with the inherent right to establish the nation and unity, as approved by the founding fathers and grandfathers of the independent state of Libya […] with the return of constitutional legitimacy, a minimum level of consensus can be found between all the forces and components of the Libyan people. This enables them to formulate a charter that guarantees the safety and unity of the nation and guarantees the dignity and security of the citizen.\"\n\nThe movement actively posts to its Facebook page on a weekly basis, including pertinent speeches, events and news coverage surrounding the 1951 constitution. \n\nOn January 25, 2017, it posted that the draft national constitutional entitlement \"which represents a political solution to the Libyan crisis\" would be announced on January 26th. \n\nIn December 2016, the movement proclaimed:\"All Libyans must loudly claim to activate the Constitution of Independence and to invite the rightful heir […] and Crown Prince Hassan Mohammed Rida al-Mahdi al-Sanusi to receive full constitutional duties to save our country […] and save the country from division and stop the bleeding of the Libyan people.\"On December 6th, 2016, it shared a collection of photos from a peaceful march in the Algiers Square of Tripoli to demand the return to constitutional legitimacy and for Prince Mohammed El Senussi to \"receive full constitutional powers as the king of Libya.\" \n\nIn February 2016, the movement said it had attended a four-hour-long meeting with the General National Congress of Libya to present the initiative to return to constitutional legitimacy. \n\nIn December 2014, the movement held a peaceful demonstration for the reestablishment of the 1951 Constitution and a conference at a hotel in El-Bayda, attended by politicians, businessmen, academics and tribal leaders in Barqa. \n\nThe same month, it shared photos from a meeting with the Mayor of Tripoli, Mr. Mahdi Abdul Hamid Al-Harati to strengthen national unity and rally support for the 1951 Constitution. \n\nIn April 2014, it announced its first Board of Directors meeting in the Zawiyat Al-Dahmani district.\n\nThe movement refers to Crown Prince Mohammed El Senussi as \"the holder of constitutional legitimacy\" and advocates for his reinstatement as leader of Libya. It frequently shares press releases and speeches by the Prince himself commenting on important matters of the Libyan state.\n\nOn August 9, 2017, the movement shared a statement by Prince Senussi honoring the seventy-seventh anniversary of the establishment of the Libyan army.\n\nIt circulated a press release from Prince Senussi who cautioned political leaders and their international sponsors that lifting the arms embargo on Libya could lead to more conflict and extremism.\n\nIn December 2016, the movement shared the video of a speech by Prince Senussi on December 24, 2016 through a \"Free Libya\" Vimeo account, stating \"we ask Allah Almighty to make and accelerate the release and save Libya on his hands.\"\n\nU.S.-based \"New York Times\" published an article in February 2016 titled \"A Radical Idea to Rebuild a Shattered Libya: Restore the Monarchy.\" The article described how since the Colonel Gaddafi's 1969 coup and dissolution of the monarchy, \"the popular memory of King Idris, who died in Cairo in 1983, has quietly endured in Libya.\" It summarizes supporters' hope to \"restore a form of monarchy […] to let Libyans rally behind a respected father figure and begin to rebuild their splintered nation.\"\n\nIn 2014, German outlet \"Deutsche Welle\" commented that \"the security situation in Libya remains chaotic – not ideal conditions to draw up a new constitution. But a 63-year-old constitution, framed under the old monarchy, could help the federalists.\" In reference to reintroducing the monarchy, it said \"at the moment, the old kingdom looks a lot more attractive than the Gadhafi era or the current state of near-anarchy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "56487839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56487839", "title": "Vice President of Iraqi Kurdistan", "text": "Vice President of Iraqi Kurdistan\n\nThe Vice President of Iraqi Kurdistan is the deputy head of an autonomous region in northern Iraq. He is part of the Kurdistan Presidency Council. The Vice President assists the President in his or her duties and in the President’s absence is the acting President.\n\nThe position is vacant since 1 November 2017.\n\nOn 14 June 2005 Masoud Barzani was sworn in by the Kurdistan National Assembly as new president. Kurdistan National Assembly elected Kosrat Rasul Ali as the Vice President of the Kurdistan Region. \n\nVice President of Iraqi Kurdistan:\n"}
{"id": "23024210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23024210", "title": "Wales Audit Office", "text": "Wales Audit Office\n\nThe Wales Audit Office (WAO) is an independent public body which was established by the National Assembly for Wales on 1 April 2005. It has overall responsibility for auditing on behalf of the Auditor General for Wales, across all sectors of government in Wales, except those reserved to the UK government.\n\nTheir aim is to ensure that the people of Wales know whether public money is being managed wisely and that public bodies in Wales understand how to improve outcomes.\n\nThis overall aim is supported by four key objectives:\n\nThe WAO currently audits around 800 public bodies including the Welsh Government, NHS Wales, and local government.\n\nThe WAO takes the form of a statutory board, which employs staff, secures resources and monitors and advises the Auditor General. The National Assembly for Wales appoints the Chair and 3 other non-executive members to the board. The other members are the Auditor General and 3 employees. \nThe WAO currently employ around 240 people across 3 offices in Cardiff, Swansea and Ewloe.\n\nOn 1 July 1999, The National Assembly for Wales (Transfer of Functions) Order 1999 came into effect, this transferred all powers from the Secretary of State for Wales to the National Assembly for Wales. Wales did not have its own auditing body, as all public auditing was carried out by the National Audit Office and the Audit Commission. It was not until 1 April 2005 that the Wales Audit Office was created after the Public Audit (Wales) Act 2004 came into effect.\n\nThe Public Audit (Wales) Act 2004, the Government of Wales Act 1998 and Government of Wales Act 2006 and other legislation currently provide the statutory basis for the Auditor General and the auditors he appoints in local government to fulfill their purpose across the Welsh public sector. In 2012 the Welsh Government introduced before the National Assembly the Public Audit (Wales) Bill. One feature of the Bill as currently drafted is to make provision for the Auditor General to be the statutory auditor of local government bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "39302575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39302575", "title": "Women in the EZLN", "text": "Women in the EZLN\n\nWomen have been influential in the Zapatista Army of National Liberation (EZLN) \"Ejército Zapatista de Liberación Nacional\", a revolutionary leftist group in Chiapas, Mexico, by participating as armed insurgents and civil supporters. In the 1990s, one-third of the insurgents were women and half of the Zapatista support base was women. The EZLN organization style involved consensus and participation by everyone, including women and children. Therefore, one aspect of the EZLN’s ideology was gender equality and rights for women. After the Zapatista uprising in Chiapas, the EZLN announced the Women’s Revolutionary Law which was a set of ten laws that granted rights to women regarding marriage, children, work, health, education, political and military participation, and protected women from violence. Prominent figures who joined the movement early on such as Comandante Ramona and Major Ana Maria encouraged other women to join the Zapatistas.\n\nIn Chiapas during the second half of the twentieth century, indigenous women were married at a very young age, usually around thirteen or fourteen. They tended to have little choice in the matter; the future husband selected a woman and the marriage was negotiated between the parents. Once married, the women fulfilled their primary roles of child-rearing, cooking, and housekeeping, though they also participated in other labor such as agriculture. Married women were often subject to mistreatment by their husbands, including physical abuse. In addition, indigenous women of Chiapas lacked access to formal education, and they typically did not learn Spanish like many men. This inhibited their socioeconomic mobility because Spanish is the main language spoken in cities and used in business practices.\n\nIn the 1950s, the Mexican government encouraged migration from the highlands to the Lacandon Jungle area of eastern Chiapas, the locus of the EZLN, because of demands for land reform. In many cases, men forced their wives to accompany them to the jungle. Women did not want to leave because many of them had never left their villages in the highlands of Chiapas. Due to the mixing of various ethnic groups in the new location, women learned other indigenous languages and were able to communicate more broadly.\n\nThere were some differences for those who stayed in the highlands. Men started working with the new businesses and industries, while women were not able to work as wage laborers. Women earned cash in other ways as street vendors or as maids in ladino homes. Some of the street vendors sold handmade crafts to tourist in the cities, and these women organized into artisan collectives. They also formed other types of economic collectives such as for bread-making and vegetable gardening. Rural women could also remain in their village and still contribute to the collective. This was an early instance of women organizing and working to better themselves. The maids earned cash, but suffered abuse in the ladino plantations. Physical and sexual abuse were commonly committed by the ladino landowners against the women who worked in their homes. Independence, new skills, and grievances gained from these experiences led women to join the EZLN.\n\nThe EZLN made its first appearance on the national and international scene with the seizing of San Cristóbal de las Casas as well as six other towns in Chiapas on January 1, 1994, which coincided with Mexico entering into the North American Free Trade Agreement. This uprising declared war against the Mexican state with the issuing of the First Declaration from the Lacandon Jungle and their Revolutionary Laws. Major Ana Maria, a woman, led the capture of San Cristóbal de las Casas.\n\nWomen comprised one-third of the EZLN army, and a significant portion of them held commanding offices. In addition, about half of the EZLN’s support base was women. Initially, the majority of the women insurgents were in the less-organized local militias, but later decided to join the actual EZLN. The women who joined as insurgents had to renounce having a family of their own, because it was too difficult to care for children in the conditions they lived in. There was family planning for women insurgents, but for those who did get pregnant, they either went home or left the child with their parents. In the insurgent camps men and women share cooking and cleaning tasks equally.\n\nJoining the EZLN allowed women greater access to educational opportunities. Zapatistas spoke Spanish as a common language between the various Mayan languages. So the Zapatista women learned Spanish and also had the opportunity to learn to read and write.\n\nDespite not being actual insurgents in the EZLN, many indigenous women still supported the EZLN in other ways. These women were those who were typically older or had families to care for. The civilian women contributed by warning communities if the military arrived, operating radios to notify communities of federal troop movement, sewing uniforms, feeding troops, and more.\n\nWesternization, neoliberal globalization, and the Zapatista movement affected indigenous communities in Chiapas, Mexico in that it prompted the emergence of indigenous feminism. Indigenous feminism has \"its own unique flair. It is an important site of gender struggle that explicitly recognizes the vital issues of cultural identity, nationalism, and decolonization. Their struggle is based in a blend of their unique ethnic, class and gender identities. In Mexico, indigenous women, feminists or not, are deeply involved in the political and social struggles of their communities. Simultaneously to these struggles, they have created specific spaces to reflect on their experiences of exclusion as women, as indigenous and as indigenous women.”\n\nEven though feminism is seen as a result of Westernization, indigenous women have struggled to “draw on and navigate Western ideologies while preserving and attempting to reclaim some indigenous traditions...which have been eroded with the imposition of dominant western culture and ideology.\" Indigenous feminism is invested in struggles of women, indigenous people, and look to their roots for solutions whilst using some western ideas for achieving these goals.\n\nThe women are invested in the collective struggle as the Zapatistas, and of women in general. In an interview with Ana Maria, one of the movement leaders said that the women \"participated in the first of January (Zapatista Uprising)... the women’s struggle is the struggle of everybody. In EZLN, we do not fight for our own interests but struggle against every situation that exists in Mexico; against all the injustice, all the marginalization, all the poverty, and all the exploitation that Mexican women suffer. Our struggle in EZLN is not for women in Chiapas but for all the Mexicans.\n\nThe effects of Western capitalist systems of development and culture makes flexibility in gender and labor roles more difficult than the indigenous cultures historical way of living off of the land. “Indigenous women’s entry into the money economy has been analyzed as making their domestic and subsistence work evermore dispensable to the reproduction of the labor force and thus reducing women’s power within the family. Indigenous men have been forced by the need to help provide for the family in the globalized capitalist economic system that favors paid economic labor while depending on female subordination and unpaid subsistence labor. These ideals are internalized by many workers and imported back into the communities.” This capitalistic infiltration harmed Gender role, they were becoming more and more restrictive and polarized with the ever-growing imposition of external factors on indigenous communities. Ever since the arrival of the Europeans and their clear distinction in the views of “home/work, domestic/productive, (soon to become the public and the private” separations and distinctions began to be made, and value began being placed in different forms.\n\nIndigenous feminism also gave rise to more collaboration and contact between indigenous and mestiza women in the informal sector. After the emergence of the Zapatistas, more meaningful collaboration started to take place, and six months after the EZLN uprising, the first Chiapas State Women’s Convention was held. Six months after that, the National Women’s Convention was held in Querétaro; it included the participation of over three hundred women from fourteen different states. In August 1997, the first National Gathering of Indigenous Women took place in the state of Oaxaca, it was organized by indigenous women and was attended by over 400 women. One of the most prevalent issues discussed in the conventions, was the dynamics between mestizas and indigenous women. Oftentimes it became the situation where the mestizas tended to “help” and the indigenous women were the one being “helped.”\n\nThe Zapatistas’ movement was the first time a guerrilla movement held women’s liberation as part of the agenda for the uprising. Major Ana Maria—who was not only the woman who lead the EZLN capture of San Cristobal de las Casas during the uprising, but also one of the women who helped create the Women’s Revolutionary Law, ‘A general law was made, but there was no women’s law. And so we protested and said that there has to be a women’s law when we make our demands. We also want the government to recognize us as women. The right to have equality, equality of men and women.’ The Women’s Revolutionary Law came about through a woman named Susana and Comandanta Ramona traveling to dozens of communities and to ask the opinions of thousands of women. The Women’s Revolutionary Law was released along with the rest of the Zapatista demands aimed at the government during their public uprising on New Years Day of 1994.\n“For the first time in the history of Latin American guerrilla movements, women members were analyzing and presenting the “personal” in politically explicit terms. This is not to say, however, that in Zapatista communities women don’t have to fight for equality and dignity. Revolutionary laws are a means, and usually a beginning,not an end. But all in all, the existence and knowledge of the law, even for women who don’t actually know what it says, has had great symbolic importance as the seedling of the current indigenous women’s movement in Mexico.”\nIt is important to acknowledge that not only was it a monumental move for so many women to be in the ranks and forefront of a movement, but they also went beyond that and made their own demands. They participated in the collective struggle, but also made sure their struggle was heard, acknowledged, and validated.\n\nOn the day of the uprising, the EZLN announced the Women’s Revolutionary Law with the other Revolutionary Laws. The Clandestine Revolutionary Indigenous Committee created and approved of these laws which were developed through with consultation of indigenous women. The Women’s Revolutionary Law strived to change “traditional patriarchal domination” and it addressed many of the grievances that Chiapas women had. These laws coincided with the EZLN’s attempt to “shift power away from the center to marginalized sectors.\" The follow are the ten laws that comprised the Women’s Revolutionary Law:\n\nIn December 2007, an \"encuentro\" (gathering) was held in la Garrucha, a small indigenous village in Chiapas, for Zapatista women to discuss issues related to women. Three thousand participants attended, including approximately three hundred Zapatista women. The encuentro was considered a space for women; so men were allowed to attend the gathering, but not to participate.\n\nThese women covered topics such as their lives before the uprising, what had changed since, and how women have participated in the EZLN. Also, the Zapatista women talked about the terrible conditions that women suffered which the Zapatistas sought to fix, including: the mistreatment from working for landowners, violence at home, discrimination faced in their own communities, and lack of access to health care and education. Then, the women went on to discuss how the Zapatista movement changed their lives such as decreasing domestic violence, more freedom in regards to marriage and children, and more rights in general. One way that women achieved these changes is through the women’s collectives which allowed the women to be more independent which led to increased participation in the Zapatista movement.\n\nComandante Ramona was the nom de guerre of one of the early political leaders in the EZLN. She only spoke Tzotzil, and so used translators to translate between Tzotzil and Spanish. Ramona worked in the communities with political organizing, but was not involved as an insurgent. In February 1994 following the initial uprising, Ramona attended peace talks and served as a negotiator with the Mexican government. Ramona died on February 6, 2006 at the age of forty from kidney cancer.\n\nMajor Ana Maria is the nom de guerre of one of the first military leaders who led the initial 1994 uprising in San Cristóbal de las Casas. She is from the Tzotzil ethno-linguistic group and held the highest military rank in her area, Los Altos de Chiapas. As a Major of Infantry, she commanded a battalion and led them in battle. She began participating in peaceful protests at eight years old, and later joined the EZLN as one of the first women around the age of fourteen after her brother joined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13697538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13697538", "title": "Wyoming Rule", "text": "Wyoming Rule\n\nThe Wyoming Rule is a proposal to increase the size of the United States House of Representatives so that the standard representative-to-population ratio would be that of the smallest entitled unit, which is currently Wyoming. Under , each U.S. state is guaranteed at least one representative. If the disparity between the population of the most and least populous states continues to grow, the disproportionality of the House will continue to increase unless the House (whose size has been fixed at 435 since 1913) is expanded.\n\nA total of 568 House seats would have been required to implement the Wyoming Rule based on the 2000 Census results. However, the decade leading up to the 2010 United States Census saw Wyoming's population increase at a greater rate than that of the U.S. as a whole; as a result, the required House size to implement the Wyoming Rule was reduced to 545.\n\nThe wide disparity in population among the states combines with the cap on House membership to lessen the effective representation for people who live in more populated states. The most glaring example is Montana, which, according to the 2010 Census, had a population of 989,417 with one representative, compared to Rhode Island's 1,052,931 residents with two. This makes a Rhode Islander's vote worth 88% more than a vote from a Montanan. Under the Wyoming Rule California would gain the most seats with 13 more House members than it has currently. \n\nWhile a larger House size will generally result in the smallest and largest districts being proportionally closer in size, this is not always the case. Therefore, in some cases, the Wyoming Rule may actually result in an increase in the ratio of the sizes of the largest and smallest districts. For instance, after the 1990 Census and with a House size of 435, the largest district (Montana's at-large district) had 799,065 residents, 76% larger than the smallest district (Wyoming's at-large district with 453,588 residents). The Wyoming Rule would have given a House size of 547 in 1990 if the former method of seat apportionment been used. With that size, the largest district (North Dakota's at-large district) would have had 638,800 residents, 92% larger than the smallest districts (Delaware's two districts, at approximately 333,084 residents each).\n\nThe current size of the house was set by The Permanent Apportionment Act of 1929. This law would need to be repealed and replaced in order to change the number of Congressional members, which would require a majority of both houses of Congress to approve it.\n\nThe chart set out below identifies the number of House members that would be given to the respective states if the Wyoming Rule were to be implemented using the population numbers from the 2010 Census.\n\nDelaware, with two (and an average of 448,967 people per seat) would have the most seats per capita. South Dakota's lone seat (814,180 people per seat) have cost the most people. This gives a ratio of 1 to 1.81345 between greatest and smallest cost per seat. By comparison, it would be 1 to 1.88000 for the current 1 seat of Montana (989,415 per seat), and Rhode Islands 2 seats (526,284 per seat).\n\nNote that North Dakota and South Dakota would have one representative each, but would have three if merged into one state. This is due to both states having more residents per representative than the national average. South Dakota falls just a few thousand people short of a second representative, having roughly 1.44 times the population of Wyoming.\n\nOther states just short of getting an extra vote in the House include Alaska, Hawaii, Maine, and New Hampshire, who all have more than 650,000 people per representative. At the other end of the scale, states like Delaware, Idaho, Montana, and New Mexico just manage to secure an extra seat in Congress, having below 525,000 people per representative each.\n\nThe following table describes how the House of Representatives would have looked like historically, had the Wyoming Rule been adopted when the Constitution was ratified. Note that for the 1787 estimate and censuses 1800 through 1860, all slaves (and not three-fifths) are included in populations, giving representatives to slave states in too large numbers.\n\nThe smallest state in each census were:\n\n"}
{"id": "1583698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583698", "title": "Yield protection", "text": "Yield protection\n\nYield protection (commonly referred to as Tufts syndrome) is an admissions practice where a university or academic institution rejects or wait-lists highly qualified students on the grounds that such students are bound to be accepted by more prestigious universities or programs. However, alternate theories regard the yield protection as a myth propagated by college students who failed to gain admission to elite universities.\n\nYield rate refers to the proportion of students who matriculate (i.e. accept an admissions offer and attend the college) after acceptance to a college.\n\n"}
