{"id": "19937260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19937260", "title": "1770–1772 Russian plague", "text": "1770–1772 Russian plague\n\nThe Russian plague epidemic of 1770–1772, also known as the Plague of 1771, was the last massive outbreak of plague in central Russia, claiming between 52,000 and 100,000 lives in Moscow alone (1/6 to 1/3 of its population). The bubonic plague epidemic that originated in the Moldovan theatre of the 1768–1774 Russian-Turkish war in January 1770 swept northward through Ukraine and central Russia, peaking in Moscow in September 1771 and causing the Plague Riot. The epidemic reshaped the map of Moscow, as new cemeteries were established beyond the 18th-century city limits.\n\nRussian troops in Focşani, Moldova discovered first signs of plague in January 1770; the disease, indigenous to the area, was contracted through prisoners of war and booty. The news was hailed and exaggerated by adversaries of Russia, and Catherine wrote a reassuring letter to Voltaire, arguing that \"in spring those killed by plague will resurrect for the fighting\". Commanding general Christopher von Stoffeln coerced army doctors to conceal the outbreak, which was not made public until Gustav Orreus, a Russian-Finnish surgeon reporting directly to Field Marshal Pyotr Rumyantsev, examined the situation, identified it as plague and enforced quarantine in the troops. Shtoffeln, however, refused to evacuate the infested towns and himself fell victim to the plague in May 1770. Of 1,500 patients recorded in his troops in May–August 1770, only 300 survived.\n\nMedical quarantine checkpoints instituted by Peter I and expanded by Catherine II were sufficient to prevent plague from reaching inside the country in peacetime, but they proved to be inadequate in time of war. The system regarded all epidemics as external threats, focusing on border control, and paid less attention to domestic measures. The epidemic blocked the logistics of Rumyantsev's army, and as the state tried to push more reserves and supplies to the theatre, peacetime quarantine controls had to be lifted. Plague swept into Poland and Ukraine; by August 1770 it reached Bryansk. Catherine refused to admit the plague in public, although she was clearly aware of the nature and proportions of the threat, as evidenced by her letters to Governor of Moscow Pyotr Saltykov.\n\nWhen Peter the Great died in 1725, he left behind him the blooming, new capital of St. Petersburg, and the city of Moscow, now unstable because he had transferred the seat of power from that city to St. Petersburg. The now-abandoned Moscow and its suburbs attracted vast numbers of serfs and army deserters, who prompted the government to instigate change by “tightening serfdom and strengthening—or even just creating—administrative and estate institutions, and knitting all three into a seamless web of social control.” The increasing population created more waste that needed to be dealt with, and no real solution for getting rid of it. There was human waste, horse waste, and waste from tanneries, slaughterhouses and other slatternly industries, all of which was piling up on each other. Catherine II inherited the throne in 1762 and recognized the social concerns her empire was facing, such as the drastic increase in pollution and decrease in living standards. In 1767, her government decreed that the polluting factories, slaughterhouses, fish markets, and cemeteries be removed from the city, that it was illegal to pollute the waterways, and that dumps be established. Her goal in this was to westernize Moscow as well as St. Petersburg. She contended that by eliminating the foul smells associated with the city, the health of the inhabitants would improve; during the 18th century, the theory of miasma (that disease came from bad smells) was prevalent. By moving the factories out of the city proper, Catherine also ensured a dispersal of the peasants and serfs, whom the city considered to be the source of the putrefaction, and therefore bring the source of the disease outside the city as well. As her memoires indicate, Catherine herself saw the stench and filth of the city as evidence of its being rooted in the past, before Russia became westernized. She hated Moscow, and before the plague outbreak, Moscow had no formal boundaries, there was no population count, and no real city planning. This lack of planning was also evidenced by the fact that the city was mostly still built from wood, despite the government urging change to stone structures in this department. While there were some stone buildings, they tended to be located in the center of the city, and the use of stone showed no real sign of spreading. There were fires, there was a high crime rate, the filth was unimaginable; the state of the city was a set up for disaster. Catherine attempted to fix these problems through pardons, case reviews, creating jobs for the unemployed and homeless, and strengthening the local government.\n\nDespite her efforts to change the city, Catherine found herself facing an outbreak of the bubonic plague in the Russian Empire in 1770. The plague was somewhat of a constant threat in early modern Europe; no one could be sure where or when it would strike. In 1765, rumors circulated that the plague had traveled north from the Ottoman Empire into Poland. The same rumors echoed over the course of the next year, with the plague also supposedly appearing in Constantinople and the Crimea. There was a false alarm of the plague entering Russian territory, and another false alarm of supposed plague around Moscow that turned out to be smallpox. There were efforts made to keep plague out of Russia by creating quarantine stations on the southern border, but these proved to be ineffective.\n\nIn December 1770, a Doctor A. F. Shafonskiy, the chief physician at the Moscow General Hospital, identified a case of the bubonic plague and promptly reported it to German doctor A. Rinder, who was in charge of the public health of the city. Unfortunately, Rinder did not trust the former’s judgment, and ignored the report. The next day, the Medical Council met and established the fact that the plague had entered the city, and informed the Senate in St. Petersburg. The response of the national government was to send military guards to the hospital in order to quarantine the cases. However, Shafonskiy and Rinder continued to stand on opposing sides, until Rinder denied Shafonskiy’s claim in January 1771. Shafonskiy submitted a report in February, arguing his case, but the officials chose to believe the German doctor instead. In March, there were definitive signs of the disease, and so Moscow’s government began implementing the established procedures, including setting up field hospitals. In June 1771, Rinder died after contracting the disease from a patient, and by September, the city was in the worst shape yet: the plague had peaked. 20,401 people died in that month alone, and roughly three quarters of Moscow’s population fled the city. Authorities tried to stop the spread of the disease, but the poor were terrified of the destruction of their contaminated homes, and so hid dead bodies. This was likely one of the reasons that, in the aftermath, Catherine ordered the removal of all cemeteries from city centers and out to the borders and suburbs.\n\nThe despair of this month led to the Plague Riots, an uprising against the government and their failed methods of protecting the citizens.\n\nThe plague peaked in September 1771, killing an estimated thousand muscovites a day (20,401 confirmed dead in September), despite the fact that an estimated three quarters of population fled the city. Many deaths escaped the statistics: residents, fearing that the infested properties would be destroyed by authorities, routinely concealed the casualties, burying the dead at night or simply throwing them on the streets. Authorities set up chain gangs of prisoners to collect and bury the bodies, but their forces were insufficient even for this single task.\n\nGovernor Saltykov, failing to control the situation, preferred to desert his station and fled to his country estate; the police chief followed suit. Jacon Lerche, the newly appointed sanitary inspector of Moscow, declared state of emergency, shutting down shops, inns, taverns, factories and even churches; the city was placed under quarantine. Masses of people, literally thrown into the streets, were denied their regular trade and recreation habits. On September 15, 1771, Moscow residents revolted against the authorities. The mob perceived any emergency measures of the state as a conspiracy to spread the disease. In particular, archbishop Amvrosy, who removed a revered icon from the public to curtail transmission of the disease by worshippers, was accused of conspiracy, hunted down and killed as \"enemy of the people\". Active rioting continued for three days; the remaining unrest was finally subdued by Grigory Orlov in the end of September.\n\nWhen the riot was still unwinding, empress Catherine dispatched Grigory Orlov to take control of Moscow; it is not clear whether her choice was an assignment in good faith or an attempt to get rid of a former lover and a leader of an influential political clan. Orlov, accompanied by Gustav Orreus and four regiments of troops, arrived in Moscow on September 26, immediately calling an emergency council with local doctors. They confirmed presence of both bubonic and septicemic forms of plague. Orlov established and supervised an executive medical commission charged with developing the ways to check the epidemic. More important, he succeeded in changing public opinion in favor of the state's emergency measures, at the same improving the efficiency and quality of medical quarantine (in particular, varying quarantine duration for different groups of exposed but yet healthy people, and paying them for the quarantine stay).\n\nThe epidemic in Moscow, although still rampant in October, gradually reduced through the year. November 15 Catherine declared that it was officially over, but deaths continued into 1772. Estimates of total death toll in Moscow range from 52 to 100 thousand out of total 300 thousand.\n\nThe plague stimulated local research in disease prevention, which was boosted by discovering indigenous plague in newly conquered territories of the Caucasus. The epidemic was professionally exposed to Western European academia through \"An account of plague which raged in Moscow 1771\", published in 1798 in Latin by Belgian physician Charles de Mertens; an English translation was released in 1799.\n\nDevastation caused by the plague forced the government to reduce taxes and military conscription quotas in the affected provinces; both measures decreased the military capabilities of the state and pushed Catherine to seek truce. The statesmen divided between supporters of further pressing into Moldova and Walachia and those who sided with Frederick II's proposal to quit the war and take Polish territories as compensation: nearby Polish lands were seen as cash source while Moldova had to be ceded to the Turks anyway. Catherine preferred to suit both parties and engaged in the Partitions of Poland while the war in the South protracted until 1774. Orlov, dismissed from the court, retired for a long tour of Europe.\n\nIn a move to control disease, authorities banned any burials on the traditional parish cemeteries inside the city of Moscow. Instead, they set up a chain of new cemeteries outside the city limits. This ring of cemeteries, established in 1771 (Vagankovo and others) is mostly extant today; some were razed to make way for the new construction (Dorogomilovo cemetery), some, also destroyed, are now public parks (Lazarevskoe cemetery). Rogozhskoye cemetery, east of Moscow, became and remains a leading Old Believers shrine.\n\n"}
{"id": "6904937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6904937", "title": "67th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "67th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 67th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as Anticipation, was hosted in Montréal, Québec, Canada, on 6–10 August 2009, at the Palais des congrès de Montréal. The organising committee was co-chaired by René Walling and Robbie Bourget.\n\nOfficial guests of the 67th Worldcon were:\n\nAnticipation was the fifth Worldcon to be held in Canada and the first one to be held in an officially French-speaking city.\n\nAnticipation also incorporated the annual Canvention, including the presentation of the Prix Aurora Awards.\n\nAnticipation was the first Worldcon to include a category for graphic story on the Hugo ballot. The category filled with six nominations due to a tie for fifth place.\n\nThe 2009 Hugo Award statue base was designed by Seattle-based artist Dave Howell.\n\n\nA number of notable science fiction and fantasy awards were presented at Anticipation.\n\n\nThe Prix Aurora Awards are given out annually for the best Canadian science fiction and fantasy literary works, artworks, and fan activities from that year, and are awarded in both English and French.\n\nThe Sidewise Award for Alternate History recognizes the best alternate history stories and novels of the year.\n\nThe members of Anticipation selected Reno, Nevada, as the host city for the 69th World Science Fiction Convention, \"Renovation\", to be held in 2011, and Raleigh, North Carolina, as the host city for the 10th North American Science Fiction Convention (NASFiC), ReConStruction, to be held in 2010, in uncontested elections. The Canadian Science Fiction and Fantasy Association selected Winnipeg, Manitoba, as the location of Canvention 2010 and the 30th Prix Aurora Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "17711909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17711909", "title": "AEI World Forum", "text": "AEI World Forum\n\nThe AEI World Forum is an annual meeting of business and financial executives, heads of government, government officials, and intellectuals. Held every spring in Sea Island, Georgia, it is sponsored by the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) and the Vail Valley Foundation, and it features a number of AEI scholars and fellows.\n\nIn 1976, U.S. president Gerald Ford hosted the second G7 summit in San Juan, Puerto Rico. During his presidency, Ford became close friends with three of the other heads of government present at the summit: British prime minister James Callaghan, French president Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, and German chancellor Helmut Schmidt. After his presidency, Ford joined the American Enterprise Institute as its \"Distinguished Fellow\" and in 1982, he and his wife, Betty Ford, hosted the first AEI World Forum near their home in Beaver Creek. Along with Callaghan, Giscard d'Estaing, and Schmidt, he hoped to enrich discourse among world leaders and explore crucial public policy issues in an intimate setting.\n\nFord hosted the World Forum until his death in 2006. At the twenty-sixth World Forum in 2007, Vice President Richard Cheney unveiled Gerald R. Ford Hall in the Beaver Creek Park Hyatt Hotel, where the World Forum's sessions are held.\n\nThe AEI World Forum is private and off the record. The World Forum consists of plenary sessions, topical small-group discussion sessions, informal conversational time, and recreational activities. According to the Vail Valley Foundation, \"Senior U.S. cabinet officers and legislators provide candid briefings on important policy initiatives. Heads of major international corporations discuss business and financial developments. Government officials from Europe, Asia and the Americas debate international strategic and economic issues in a private, informal atmosphere, far removed from the distractions of day-to-day business.\"\n"}
{"id": "16283827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16283827", "title": "Alpine Unity", "text": "Alpine Unity\n\nAlpine Unity was a three night New Year festival in Aotearoa/New Zealand. The first event took place in 2001 with two subsequent events taking place at Flock Hill, a high country station in Te Wai Pounamu, the South Island of New Zealand. The largest event in 2002 had approximately 5000 attendees.\n\nIt was run as a limited liability company co-owned by Pacific Island Entertainment Ltd. and Middle Earth Productions Ltd., until two of the Directors of the company and the festival were implicated in a drug bust in 2003. Following the bust, the party was taken over by New Zealand Entertainment Service Ltd. and rebranded 'Alpine'. It carried on under the new name, eventually being superseded by Rhythm and Alps, which was created by the organisers of the Rhythm and Vines New Year festival in Te Ika a Maui, the North Island of Aotearoa/New Zealand.\n\nAlpine Unity had many acts from around New Zealand, the most notable acts were:\n\n"}
{"id": "20573467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20573467", "title": "Ars Musica", "text": "Ars Musica\n\nFounded in 1989, Ars Musica is an annual contemporary music international festival that takes place in Brussels during several weeks, usually in March. Nowadays, Ars musica is one of the biggest world festival for contemporary music. Famous composers were all present: from Ligeti to Stockhausen, from Lachenmann to Huber, from Boulez to Berio.\n\nBased on a theme, the programming of the festival presents an inventory of musical creation in relation to its Belgian, European and overseas partners. Several concerts per day have permitted to cover about 700 composers in 20 years of existence, on the average 35 new composers every year. The catalogue of works performed is approximately one hundred concerts per session.\n\n"}
{"id": "37463133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37463133", "title": "Association of Returnees from China", "text": "Association of Returnees from China\n\nThe , often abbreviated to Chukiren, was an organization formed on 24 September 1957 following the repatriation to Japan of soldiers from the former Imperial Japanese Army who were interned as war criminals in China's Fushun War Criminals Management Centre, where interns were subjected to intensive indoctrination by the Chinese Communist Party. While the Chinese government chose to prosecute the top Japanese leadership, it repatriated accused lower-ranking soldiers to Japan. Once in Japan, they gave testimony about their experience with crimes such as Unit 731, comfort women, and the Nanking Massacre, but often received stringent opposition from Japanese nationalists and militarists, who proclaimed them to be communists or \"brainwashed\" by the Chinese communist government. Its members included Yoshio Shinozuka, Yasuji Kaneko, Tadayuki Furumi, and Ken Yuasa; the association was disbanded in 2002.\n\n1109 individuals were interned by the People's Republic of China, 969 in the Fushun War Criminals Management Centre and 140 in the Taiyuan War Criminals Management Centre, on suspicion of having committed war crimes within China during the Second Sino-Japanese War. Those held in Fushun had been captured in Manchuria by the USSR and after enduring internment in Siberia were transferred to China in 1950. They included many Japanese soldiers as well as Chinese such as Puyi and Zhang Jinghui. Those held in Taiyuan included Japanese soldiers who after the end of the Second Sino-Japanese War had joined the Nationalists and fought against the communists during the Chinese Civil War.\n\nIn contrast with their time in Siberia, Japanese POWs were given better treatment from the Chinese communists. However, a long-term \"crime recognition campaign\" was imposed at the same time on those soldiers who were believed to have undertaken, supported, and witnessed Japan's numerous and inhumane criminal acts during the war. This involved them reflecting on their own actions up to then and confessing their sins voluntarily, a process later described by Chukiren's detractors as \"brainwashing\". During the campaign, some interns killed themselves. \n\nUnder the authority of the \"Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress Concerning Punishment of Japanese Troops Who Invaded China\" of April 1956, the trials of 45 leading war criminals were undertaken in extraordinary military tribunals set up in Shenyang, Liaoning, and Taiyuan, Shanxi, between June and July. All the rest of the war crime suspects were pronounced at special courts within their internment centres to be exempt from prosecution and to be released immediately.\n\nIn 1957 some of these repatriated former war criminals whose sins were forgiven by the Chinese founded the Association of Returnees from China and launched an anti-war, pacifist movement and a campaign for Sino-Japanese friendship.\n\nAt the heart of Chukiren's mission was exposing the foolishness of war, especially through testifying to the things that they themselves did in the war and on the battlefield. They were known for being very active in testifying about and cooperating with witnesses of things such as Unit 731, forced labor recruitment of Koreans, comfort women, and the Nanking Massacre. Because of this, many of the returnees ended up being branded as \"red\" regardless of their personal beliefs and experienced mistreatment in post-war Japan.\n\nWriters such as Toshio Tanabe have also argued that the Japanese officers and men interned at Fushun were brainwashed by China. The returnees who gained their freedom thanks to China's lenient pardon when they should have been sentenced to a long-term or indefinite imprisonment or death were deeply grateful to the Chinese government, but they don't go so far as to deny the fact that China's true intention was that they, due to their ideological training, were useful people to be set free as disseminators of their ideas under a debt of gratitude to China for letting them off.\n\nDue to the aging of its members, the Association of Returnees from China was disbanded as a national organization in 2002 and its work was carried on by the \"Continuing the Miracle of Fushun Society\" composed of younger activists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15216339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15216339", "title": "BRL V6", "text": "BRL V6\n\nThe Benelux Racing League V6, better known as BRL V6, was a touring car racing series held in The Netherlands and Belgium between 2004 and 2009. It is the heavier variant on the BRL Light. For 2010, BRL cars were allowed into the Dutch Supercar Challenge.\n\nThe BRL V6 was first launched, as the V6 Oval Series, in July 2003. Entrepreneur Harry Maessen founded the racing series and a test was conducted at his own racetrack, Circuit de Peel. The car made its competition debut in the Dutch Winter Endurance Series New Years race at Circuit Park Zandvoort 2004. Drivers Jeroen Reijntjes and Sandor van Es placed the car on pole position, but technical difficulties prevented a strong finish.\n\nThe inaugural season, 2004, featured four race weekends. The series competed at Spa-Francorchamps, Zolder, Zandvoort and Oschersleben. The initial calendar also featured oval races at Raceway Venray and a new to construct oval in the German Ruhr. These did not take place. Cor Euser, racing a Jeff Gordon resembling paint scheme, won the first pole position. Donny Crevels and Duncan Huisman won the first two races at Spa.n Facing heavy competition from Euser and Thomas Mutsch, Crevels went on to win the inaugural season.\n\nThe level of competition went up the following year with Kurt Thiim and Jeroen Bleekemolen joining the series and Xavier Maessen and Marc Goossens making guest appearances. The BRL V6 field was joined by the BRL Light class. The class was the successor of the previous VEGE Series (2000-2004) and featured a less powerful Ford Duratec engine. For the inaugural BRL Light season the series kept their VEGE Series Ford Sierra bodywork before switching to a Ford Fiesta bodywork in 2006. Bleekemolen joined the US Carworld team as its sole full-time driver. The 2004 Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters driver won eleven out of fifteen races, dominating the championship.\nFor 2006 a number of technical improvements were made to the car. The car received a softer compound of Hoosier slicks. Also cooling to the brakes was improved. The Collé Racing domination started in 2006, lasting until the final season of the original season in 2009. Collé Racing driver Sandor van Es won the championship in 2006 before teammate Donald Molenaar won the series in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Early in the 2006 season Collé Racing faced stiff competition from Eurotech Racing drivers Marc Goossens and Danny van Dongen whom competed for podium finishes. The series also competed during the 2006 A1GP weekend at Zandvoort. Prominent guest drivers joined the series, such as Junior Strous and Jan Lammers. Lammers scored a seventh place in the first race with Crevels winning both races.\n\nThe BRL joined the Belgian and Dutch rounds of the 2007 Champ Car season at Zolder and Assen. Collé Racing continued reigning supreme in 2007 with Molenaar winning six races and Sandor van Es winning four races in the fourteen race season. The other four races were won by Bleekemolen (who ran a partial schedule) and Donny Crevels, two each. The final races of the season, at Zandvoort, were marred by an incident involving 2005-2006 BRL Light champion Marijn van Kalmthout. During qualifying Van Kalmthout went off track in a yellow flag zone almost hitting a rescue vehicle and marshal. Van Kalmthout was disqualified for the remainder of the weekend. The disqualification had no effect on the championship standings were Van Kalmthout remained third.\n\nFor 2008 the schedule was reduced to twelve races, with Molenaar again winning eight and the championship. In 2009 Donny Crevels beat Collé Racing driver Sandor van Es for the second place in the championship. At first it was announced the series would race at Racepark Meppen, also owned by series founder Harry Maessen, but the track was not built in time for the race weekend.\n\nDuring the 2009 season it was announced that the BRL V6 series would cease to exist an independent racing series. The series joined the Dutch Supercar Challenge roster. The series formed a separate class in the Supersport I and GT field. As the races in the Dutch Supercar Challenge had a semi-endurance set-up the BRL V6 cars were modified. The cars were fitted with more durable breaks and a larger fuel tank. The Hoosier tyres were replaced by Dunlop tyres. Many teams did not remain in the new series and driver numbers dropped. Compared to previous season the championship battle was very tight. Niels Bouwhuis claimed the championship in the final round, beating Nelson van der Pol by seven points.\n\nThe following season the BRL V6 was no longer a separate class, but joined the Supersport I class. In the Supersport I class other cars competed such as the Porsche 997 and the Aston Martin Vantage.\n\nFor 2011 Harry Maessen transformed the BRL V6 series into an oval racing series at his own Raceway Venray. Raceway Venray includes a half mile oval configuration the series used. The series returned to their soft Hoosier tyres. The series invited many stock car regulars. Donald Molenaar, and Collé Racing, returned to the series. As Jacky van der Ende won eight races, and Molenaar seven, Van der Ende won the championship. Van der Ende repeated the feat in 2012. Renger van der Zande won the final championship series in 2013.\n\nIn 2014 Maessen sold the cars to the Acceleration 2014 organisation. The cars were transformed into pick-up trucks with a rear-wing to provide more downforce. Due to small grids the series folded after one season. Danny van Dongen, the only full-time driver in the series, was crowned champion. The cars were bought again by Harry Maessen and ran a demonstration event at Raceway Venray during the 2015 NASCAR Whelen Euro Series event. A calendar for the pick-up series at Assen and Meppen was announced. However, no races were run.\n\nAll the cars in this series are equal. They use the body of a Ford Mondeo. The chassis is developed by Weytech Technical Assistance. The motor is a Ford 4 L V6. It has 325 hp and a torque of 440 N·m. The car as a weight of 925 kg. The series uses Hoosier slicks. They use Wilwood disk brakes.\n\nSeries founder Harry Maessen purchased twelve Reynard 2KF chassis in 2006. Maessen fitted the former Formula Chrysler Euroseries cars with Ford engines. In early 2008, the 2001 Formula Chrysler Euroseries, champion, Ricardo van der Ende tested the renewed car at Zolder. The class ran demonstration races at the Rizla Racing Days at the TT Circuit Assen. The field was made up of young talent, such as Thomas Hylkema and Henk Vuik, Jr., and experienced BRL racing names such as Barry Maessen and Henry Zumbrink. Vuik, Jr. won the first race, before Hylkema and Maessen. The second races was a rain spectacle with many drivers, in their first weekend racing the car, struggling in difficult circumstances. The 2003 Dutch Formula Ford Zetec champion Nelson van der Pol won the second race.\n\nPlans to race a full season in 2009, joining other national series, never came to fruition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39187252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39187252", "title": "Bad Day in Blackrock", "text": "Bad Day in Blackrock\n\nBad Day in Blackrock is a 2008 novel by Kevin Power. The plot was loosely based on the real-life death of Brian Murphy that occurred in Dublin in 2000 as a result of a violent assault outside a nightclub.\n\nThe central protagonist is Richard Culhane, who comes from a wealthy south Dublin neighbourhood. He and his two friends, Stephen O’Brien and Barry Fox, all attended the (fictional) privately run Brookfield College, a secondary school which boasts of producing high-ranking politicians, judges and business leaders. They have now moved on from this and are embarking on university studies. All of the youths are also heavily involved in the Dublin rugby scene. Another of their former schoolmates and rugby teammates is Conor Harris, who was always considered something of an outsider. Both Culhane and Harris had been at one stage or another involved with the much-admired Laura Haines, another of the South Dublin privileged set. Her behaviour at the nightclub is the trigger that finally results in Culhane and his two friends assaulting and accidentally killing Harris.\n\nThe story is told in elliptical fashion, moving backward and forward across the span of the story and delving into each of the individuals’ character, background and possible motivations.\n\nOn release, the novel attracted some controversy because of its similarities to a real-life event. A close friend of the families involved was reported as saying that the novel was ‘insensitive’ and that ‘They're horrified and appalled to think that someone would drag up the case again just as the media interest was beginning to die down.’ Author Kevin Power stated that he did not research the Murphy case while writing the book. He was quoted as saying ‘I would hope they won't react badly. If you find something in a society that people aren't talking about, in a sense that is what fiction is for…it's not a question of trampling all over sensitivities, that's absolutely not my project here at all. So I would hope that no-one draws offence from anything I've done.’ \n\n\"Bad Day in Blackrock\" received widespread praise from the critics. Author John Boyne said in his Irish Times review: 'It's an excellent novel, there's no two ways about that. It comes from the gut, it's raw, it's passionate ... a compulsive read.' The Sunday Business Post review, by Dermot Bolger was similarly enthusiastic: This is a disturbing book and a truly fine one, when was the last time an Irish novel made us properly uncomfortable? This novel marks the debut of a deeply moral and probing writer - and a potentially great one.' Peter Murphy in Hot Press called it ‘A powerful debut and one of the most exciting Irish novels in years.' Professor Frank McGuinness called it ‘a piercing contemporary novel’.\n\n\"Bad Day in Blackrock\" was adapted into a film entitled \"What Richard Did\", which loosely follows the novel's storyline. The film was directed by Lenny Abrahamson and starred Jack Reynor as Richard Culhane. Like the book, the film version also attracted widespread critical acclaim and won five awards at the 10th Irish Film & Television Awards.\n"}
{"id": "8382839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8382839", "title": "Balada da Praia dos Cães", "text": "Balada da Praia dos Cães\n\nBallad of Dog's Beach (in original Portuguese Balada da Praia dos Cães) is a fiction novel by the Portuguese author José Cardoso Pires, relating the investigation into the murder of a political dissident, taking place around 1 one month later by 961. The novel is largely based on contemporary reports of a real murder that took place. The real story is the assassination in early 1961 of Army captain Almeida Santos by Jean Jacques, an Army m. d. They were both dissidents of the political regime who escaped from prison with the help of a prison guard. The three men took refuge in a house in Guincho Beach, twenty km outside Lisbon. They were joined by Maria José Maldonado Sequeira, a beautiful young woman who had an affair with A. Santos. While waiting for opportunity to leave the country, Maria José started a love affair with the two men, Santos e Jacques, which caused a fight between them and the death of Santos. Jacques buried him in the beach with the help of the guard. The body was discovered one month later by a dog whose owner was taking a walk.\nbehind the novel\n"}
{"id": "904450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904450", "title": "Basquiat (film)", "text": "Basquiat (film)\n\nBasquiat is a 1996 American biographical drama film directed by Julian Schnabel based on the life of American postmodernist/neo expressionist artist Jean-Michel Basquiat. Basquiat, born in Brooklyn, used his graffiti roots as a foundation to create collage-style paintings on canvas.\n\nJeffrey Wright portrays Basquiat, and David Bowie plays Basquiat's friend and mentor Andy Warhol. Additional cast members include Gary Oldman as a thinly disguised Schnabel, Michael Wincott as the poet and art critic Rene Ricard, Dennis Hopper as Bruno Bischofberger, Parker Posey as gallery owner Mary Boone, Christopher Walken as a villainous journalist, and Claire Forlani, Courtney Love, Tatum O'Neal, and Benicio del Toro in supporting roles as \"composite characters\".\n\nThe film was written by Schnabel and Michael Holman, who was also credited for story development, with story by Lech Majewski and John Bowe. Holman, a former member of theatrical rock group The Tubes, had first met Basquiat in 1979 and together that year they founded an experimental, industrial/electronica group called Gray.\n\nThe film is a lightly fictionalised account of Basquiat's life. Initially a struggling artist living in a cardboard box in Tompkins Square Park, he works his way up the rungs of the New York art world in the eighties, thanks in part to his association with Andy Warhol (David Bowie), the art dealer Bruno Bischofberger (Dennis Hopper), poet and critic René Ricard (Michael Wincott), and fellow artist Albert Milo (Gary Oldman).\n\nAlongside the development of his artistic career, the film also follows Basquiat's tumultuous relationship with Gina (Claire Forlani), a fellow aspiring artist he meets whilst she is working as a waitress at a diner he frequents with his friend Benny (Benicio del Toro). Their romance is affected by Basquiat's affair with the so-called \"Big Pink\" (Courtney Love), a woman he picks up on the street, and his habitual abuse of heroin. Eventually, Basquiat finds himself isolated by his fame, the death of Warhol and his drug use. The film ends with a title card informing the audience that Jean-Michel Basquiat died of a heroin overdose on August 12, 1988, at the age of 27.\n\nAs director, Schnabel inserted himself into the film by adding the fictional character, Albert Milo (Gary Oldman), who he based on himself. Schnabel also added cameo appearances by his mother, father, and daughter (as Milo's family). Schnabel himself appeared as an extra as a waiter.\n\n\"Basquiat\" was the first commercial feature film about a painter made by a painter. Schnabel said:\n\n\"I know what it's like to be attacked as an artist. I know what it's like to be judged as an artist. I know what it's like to arrive as an artist and have fame and notoriety. I know what it's like to be accused of things that you never said or did. I know what it's like to be described as a piece of hype. I know what it's like to be appreciated as well as degraded.\"\nBasquiat died in 1988 of mixed-drug toxicity (he had been combining cocaine and heroin, known as \"speedballing\"). Basquiat's estate would not grant permission for his work to be used in the film. Schnabel and his studio assistant Greg Bogin created paintings \"in the style of\" Basquiat for the film.\n\n\"Basquiat\" opened theatrically on August 9, 1996 in 6 venues, earning $83,863 in its first weekend. The film ultimately grossed $3,011,195 domestically.\n\nThe film received positive reviews from critics. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 70% rating based on 27 reviews, with an average rating of 6.8/10. Metacritic reports a 65 out of 100 rating based on 20 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" awarded the film three and a half out of a possible four stars. Conversely, Janet Maslin in \"The New York Times\" called the film \"bold, attention-getting and more than a little facile, a stylish-looking film without the connective tissue to give it real depth.\"\n\n\"Directorial Debut Fails as Film, History\"; review of \"Basquiat\", by Julian Schnabel, \"San Francisco Examiner\", August 16, 1996.\n\nSimilarly, the \"Los Angeles Examiner\" said that \"\"Basquiat\" does not seem interested in anything that doesn't advance its director's personal agenda.\" The review stated that \"Though as a writer-director, Schnabel's work is not the total fiasco the debut films of fellow artists David Salle (\"Search and Destroy\") and Robert Longo (\"Johnny Mnemonic\") were, it is fascinating to see what a compendium of Troubled Genius movie cliches he has turned out.\" Like several of the negative reviews, the review picked out for praise the acting of Jeffrey Wright as Jean-Michel Basquiat, saying \"\"Basquiat's\" only genuine inspiration was casting Jeffrey Wright, who won a Tony for his work in \"Angels in America\" on the New York stage, as the artist. An actor whose talent is visible even in this standard role, Wright's ability creates more interest in Basquiat's fate than would otherwise exist.\"\n\nThe reviews in the art press focused more on the relation of Schnabel as director to his portrayal of Schnabel as artist in the film, and on changes to the facts of Basquiat's life introduced by Schnabel to make a more accessible film. In \"Art in America\", the art critic Brooks Adams wrote:\n\n\"Basquiat\" can be seen as a huge, lurking self-portrait of the artist-Schnabel, not Basquiat. So laden is the film with the innumerable coincidences of Basquiat and Schnabel's enthusiasms (among others, for pajamas and surfing) that the movie should be more appropriately called My Basquiat... To a remarkable degree, the movie succeeds, by dint of its authorial slant, in popularizing the myth of Basquiat as a young, gorgeous, doomed, yet ultimately transcendent black male artist, even as it extends and reinflates the myth of Schnabel as a protean, Picassoid white male painter... Yet for all one's apprehension about the very idea of Schnabel making such a film, Basquiat turns out to be a surprisingly good movie...It is also an art work.\nAfter the film was released, the actor Jeffrey Wright said that \"I think my performance was appropriated, literally, and the way I was edited was appropriated in the same way his [Basquiat's] story has been appropriated and that he was appropriated when he was alive. [...] Julian made him out to be too docile and too much of a victim and too passive and not as dangerous as he really was. It's about containing Basquiat. It's about aggrandizing himself through Basquiat's memory.\"\n\nComparing Bowie's portrayal of Warhol to others who've portrayed Warhol prior, Paul Morrissey (who directed many films that Warhol produced) said \"Bowie was the best by far. You come away from \"Basquiat\" thinking Andy was comical and amusing, not a pretentious, phony piece of shit, which is how others show him.\" He also noted that \"Bowie at least knew Andy. They went to the same parties.\" Bowie was able to borrow Warhol's actual wig, glasses and jacket from the Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh for the film. Writer Bob Colacello, who edited Warhol's \"Interview\" magazine in the 70's and early 80's, said \"[Crispin] Glover walked the most like [the real] Andy, [Jared] Harris talked the most like Andy, and Bowie looked the most like Andy. When I first saw Bowie on the set, it was like Andy had been resurrected.\"\n\nThe following songs are in order of their appearance in the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15982010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15982010", "title": "Battle of the Eurymedon", "text": "Battle of the Eurymedon\n\nThe Battle of the Eurymedon was a double battle, taking place both on water and land, between the Delian League of Athens and her Allies, and the Persian Empire of Xerxes I. It took place in either 469 or 466 BC, in the vicinity of the mouth of the Eurymedon River (now the Köprüçay) in Pamphylia, Asia Minor. It forms part of the Wars of the Delian League, itself part of the larger Greco-Persian Wars.\n\nThe Delian League had been formed between Athens and many of the city-states of the Aegean to continue the war with Persia, which had begun with the first and second Persian invasions of Greece (492–490 and 480–479 BC, respectively). In the aftermath of the Battles of Plataea and Mycale, which had ended the second invasion, the Greek Allies had taken the offensive, besieging the cities of Sestos and Byzantium. The Delian League then took over responsibility for the war, and continued to attack Persian bases in the Aegean throughout the next decade.\n\nIn either 469 or 466 BC, the Persians began assembling a large army and navy for a major offensive against the Greeks. Gathering near the Eurymedon, it is possible that the expedition aimed to move up the coast of Asia Minor, capturing each city in turn. This would bring the Asiatic Greek regions back under Persian control, and give the Persians naval bases from which to launch further expeditions into the Aegean. Hearing of the Persian preparations, the Athenian general Cimon took 200 triremes and sailed to Phaselis in Pamphylia, which eventually agreed to join the Delian League. This effectively blocked the Persian strategy at its first objective.\n\nCimon then moved to pre-emptively attack the Persian forces near the Eurymedon. Sailing into the mouth of the river, Cimon quickly routed the Persian fleet gathered there. Most of the Persian fleet made land-fall, and the sailors fled to the shelter of the Persian army. Cimon then landed the Greek marines and proceeded to attack the Persian army, which was also routed. The Greeks captured the Persian camp, taking many prisoners, and were able to destroy 200 beached Persian triremes. This stunning double victory seems to have greatly demoralised the Persians, and prevented any further Persian campaigning in the Aegean until at least 451 BC. However, the Delian League do not appear to have pressed home their advantage, probably because of other events in the Greek world that required their attention.\n\nUnfortunately, the military history of Greece between the end of the second Persian invasion of Greece and the Peloponnesian War (431-404 BC) is poorly attested by surviving ancient sources. This period, sometimes referred to as the \"pentekontaetia\" by ancient scholars, was a period of relative peace and prosperity within Greece. The richest source for the period, and also the most contemporary with it, is Thucydides's \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", which is generally considered by modern historians to be a reliable primary account. Thucydides only mentions this period in a digression on the growth of Athenian power in the run up to the Peloponnesian War, and the account is brief, probably selective and lacks any dates. Nevertheless, Thucydides's account can be, and is used by historians to draw up a skeleton chronology for the period, on to which details from archaeological records and other writers can be superimposed.\n\nMuch extra detail for the period is provided by Plutarch, in his biographies of Aristides and especially Cimon. Plutarch was writing some 600 years after the events in question, and is therefore very much a secondary source, but he often explicitly names his sources, which allows some degree of verification of his statements. In his biographies, he explicitly draws on many ancient histories that have not survived, and thus often preserves details of the period that Thucydides's brief account omits. The final major extant source for the period is the universal history (\"Bibliotheca historica\") of the 1st century BC Sicilian, Diodorus Siculus. Much of Diodorus's writing concerning this period seems to be derived from the much earlier Greek historian Ephorus, who also wrote a universal history. However, from what little we know of Ephorus, historians are generally disparaging towards his history. Diodorus, who has often been dismissed by modern historians, is therefore not a particularly good source for this period. Indeed, one of his translators, Oldfather, says of Diodorus's account of the Eurymedon campaign that \"...the three preceding chapters reveal Diodorus in the worst light...\". There is also a reasonable body of archaeological evidence for the period, of which inscriptions detailing probable tribute lists of the Delian League are particularly important.\n\nThucydides provides a succinct list of the main events occurring between the end of the second Persian invasion and the outbreak of the Peloponnesian War, but almost no chronological information. Various attempts have been made to reassemble the chronology, but there is no definitive answer. The assumption central to these attempts is that Thucydides is describing the events in the appropriate chronological order. The one firmly accepted date is 465 BC for the beginning of the Siege of Thasos. This is based on an ancient scholiast's annotation of a copy of Aeschines's works. The scholiast notes that the Athenians met disaster at the 'Nine-Ways' in the archonship of Lysitheus (known to be 465/464 BC). Thucydides mentions this attack on the 'Nine-Ways' in connection with the beginning of the Siege of Thasos, and since Thucydides says that the siege ended in its third year, the Siege of Thasos therefore dates to c.465–463 BC.\n\nThe Battle of Eurymedon has been dated to 469 BC by Plutarch's anecdote about the Archon Apsephion (469/468 BC) choosing Cimon and his fellow generals as judges in a competition. The implication is that Cimon had recently achieved a great victory, and the most likely candidate is Eurymedon. However, since the Battle of Eurymedon seems to have occurred after the Athenian siege of Naxos (but before the Siege of Thasos), the date of Eurymedon is clearly constrained by the date of Naxos. Whilst some accept a date of 469 or earlier for this Naxos, another school of thought places it as late as 467 BC. Since the Battle of Eurymedon seems to have occurred before Thasos, the alternative date for this battle would therefore be 466 BC. Modern historians are split, some supporting 469 BC as the most likely date, and others opting for 466 BC.\n\nThe Greco-Persian Wars had their roots in the conquest of the Greek cities of Asia Minor, and in particular Ionia, by the Persian Empire of Cyrus the Great shortly after 550 BC. The Persians found the Ionians difficult to rule, eventually settling for sponsoring a tyrant in each Ionian city. While Greek states had in the past often been ruled by tyrants, this was a form of government on the decline. By 500 BC, Ionia appears to have been ripe for rebellion against these Persian place-men. The simmering tension finally broke into open revolt due to the actions of the tyrant of Miletus, Aristagoras. Attempting to save himself after a disastrous Persian-sponsored expedition in 499 BC, Aristagoras chose to declare Miletus a democracy. This triggered similar revolutions across Ionia, and indeed Doris and Aeolis, beginning the Ionian Revolt.\n\nThe Greek states of Athens and Eretria allowed themselves to be drawn into this conflict by Aristagoras, and during their only campaigning season (498 BC) they contributed to the capture and burning of the Persian regional capital of Sardis. After this, the Ionian Revolt carried on (without further outside aid) for a further 5 years, until it was finally completely crushed by the Persians. However, in a decision of great historic significance, the Persian king Darius the Great decided that, despite successfully subduing the revolt, there remained the unfinished business of exacting punishment on Athens and Eretria for supporting the revolt. The Ionian Revolt had severely threatened the stability of Darius's empire, and the states of mainland Greece would continue to threaten that stability unless dealt with. Darius thus began to contemplate the complete conquest of Greece, beginning with the destruction of Athens and Eretria.\n\nIn the next two decades there would be two Persian invasions of Greece, including some of the most famous battles in history. During the first invasion, Thrace, Macedon and the Aegean islands were added to the Persian Empire, and Eretria was duly destroyed. However, the invasion ended in 490 BC with the decisive Athenian victory at the Battle of Marathon. Between the two invasions, Darius died, and responsibility for the war passed to his son Xerxes I. Xerxes then led the second invasion personally in 480 BC, taking an enormous (although oft-exaggerated) army and navy to Greece. Those Greeks who chose to resist (the 'Allies') were defeated in the twin battles of Thermopylae and Artemisium on land and at sea respectively. All of Greece except the Peloponnesus thus fell into Persian hands, but then seeking to finally destroy the Allied navy, the Persians suffered a decisive defeat at the Battle of Salamis. The following year, 479 BC, the Allies assembled the largest Greek army yet seen and defeated the Persian invasion force at the Battle of Plataea, ending the invasion and the threat to Greece.\n\nAccording to tradition, on the same day as Plataea, the Allied fleet defeated the demoralised remnants of the Persian fleet in the Battle of Mycale. This action marks the end of the Persian invasion, and the beginning of the next phase in the Greco-Persian wars, the Greek counterattack. After Mycale, the Greek cities of Asia Minor again revolted, with the Persians now powerless to stop them. The Allied fleet then sailed to the Chersonesos, still held by the Persians, and besieged and captured the town of Sestos. The following year, 478 BC, the Allies sent a force to capture the city of Byzantium (modern day Istanbul). The siege was successful, but the behaviour of the Spartan general Pausanias alienated many of the Allies, and resulted in Pausanias's recall. The siege of Byzantium was the last action of the Hellenic alliance that defeated the Persian invasion.\n\nAfter Byzantium, Sparta was eager to end her involvement in the war. The Spartans were of the view that, with the liberation of mainland Greece, and the Greek cities of Asia Minor, the war's purpose had already been reached. There was also perhaps a feeling that securing long-term security for the Asian Greeks would prove impossible. The loose alliance of city states that fought against Xerxes's invasion was dominated by Sparta and the Peloponnesian league. With the Spartan withdrawal, the leadership of the Greeks now explicitly passed to the Athenians. A congress was called on the holy island of Delos to institute a new alliance to continue the fight against the Persians. This alliance, now including many of the Aegean islands, was formally constituted as the 'First Athenian Alliance', commonly known as the Delian League. According to Thucydides, the official aim of the League was to \"avenge the wrongs they suffered by ravaging the territory of the king.\" Forces of the Delian League spent much of the next decade expelling the remaining Persian garrisons from Thrace, and expanding the Aegean territory controlled by the League.\n\nOnce the Persian forces in Europe had largely been neutralised, the Athenians seem to have gone about starting to extend the League in Asia Minor. The islands of Samos, Chios and Lesbos seem to have become members of the original Hellenic alliance after Mycale, and presumably were also therefore original members of the Delian League. However, it is unclear exactly when the other Ionian cities, or indeed the other Greek cities of Asia Minor, joined the league, though they certainly did at some point. Thucydides attests the presence of Ionians at Byzantium in 478 BC, so it is possible that at least some of the Ionian cities joined the league in early 478 BC. The Athenian politician Aristides was said to have died in Pontus (c. 468 BC) whilst on public business. Given that Aristides was responsible for organising the financial contributions of each League member, this trip may have been connected with expansion of the League into Asia Minor.\n\nCimon's Eurymedon campaign itself seems to have begun in response to the assembly of a large Persian fleet and army at Aspendos, near the mouth of the Eurymedon River. It is usually argued that the Persians were the would-be aggressors, and that Cimon's campaign was launched to deal with this new threat. Cawkwell suggests that the Persian build-up was the first concerted attempt to counter the activity of the Greeks since the failure of the second invasion. It is possible that internal strife within the Persian empire had contributed to the length of time it took to launch this campaign. Cawkwell outlines the Persian strategic problems: \"Persia was a land power which used its naval forces in close conjunction with its armies, not free ranging in enemy waters. In any case, secure naval bases were necessary. In the Ionian Revolt with land forces already operating in Ionia and elsewhere along the Aegean seaboard, it was easy for a Royal army and navy to deal with the revolt, but in view of the general revolt of the [Ionian] cities in 479 BC and the subsequent successes of the Greek navies the only way for Persia must have seemed to be to move along the coast restoring order in city after city, with fleet and army moving together.\" The nature of naval warfare in the Ancient world, dependent as it was on large teams of rowers, meant that ships would have to make landfall every few days to resupply with food and water. This severely limited the range of an Ancient fleet, and essentially meant that navies could only operate in the vicinity of secure naval bases. Cawkwell therefore suggests that the Persian forces gathered at Aspendos were aiming to move along the southern coast of Asia Minor, capturing each city, until eventually the Persian navy could begin operating in Ionia again. Alexander the Great would employ this strategy in reverse in winter of 333 BC. Lacking a navy with which to take on the Persians, Alexander settled instead for denying the Persian navy suitable bases, by capturing the ports of southern Asia Minor.\n\nPlutarch says that upon hearing that the Persian forces were gathering at Aspendos, Cimon sailed from Cnidus (in Caria) with 200 triremes. It is highly likely that Cimon had assembled this force because the Athenians had had some warning of a forthcoming Persian campaign to re-subjugate the Asiatic Greeks. Certainly, no other league business would have required such a great force. Cimon may have been waiting in Caria because he expected the Persians to march straight into Ionia, along the Royal road from Sardis. According to Plutarch, Cimon sailed with these 200 triremes to the Greek city of Phaselis (in Lycia) but was refused admittance. He therefore began ravaging the lands of Phaselis, but with the mediation of the Chian contingent of his fleet, the people of Phaselis agreed to join the league. They were to contribute troops to the expedition, and to pay the Athenians ten talents. The fact that Cimon pre-emptively sailed to and captured Phaselis suggests that he anticipated a Persian campaign to capture the coastal cities (as outlined above). The presence of both army and navy at Aspendos may have persuaded him that there was to be no immediate assault on Ionia. By capturing Phaselis, the furthest east Greek city in Asia Minor (and just to the west of the Eurymedon), he effectively blocked the Persian campaign before it had begun, denying them the first naval base they needed to control. Taking further initiative, Cimon then moved to directly attack the Persian fleet at Aspendos.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, the League fleet consisted of 200 triremes. These were of the sleek Athenian \"aphract\" (deckless) design, originally developed by Themistocles primarily for ramming actions, although they had been modified by Cimon to improve their suitability for boarding actions.\n\nThe standard complement of a trireme was 200 men, including 14 marines. In the second Persian invasion of Greece, each Persian ship had carried thirty extra marines, and this was probably also true in the first invasion when the whole invasion force was apparently carried in triremes. Furthermore, the Chian ships at the Battle of Lade also carried 40 marines each. This suggests that a trireme could probably carry a maximum of 40–45 soldiers—triremes seem to have been easily destabilised by extra weight. There were therefore probably around 5,000 hoplite marines with the League fleet.\n\nSeveral different estimates for the size of the Persian fleet are given. Thucydides says that there was a fleet of 200 Phoenician ships, and is generally considered the most reliable source. Plutarch gives numbers of 350 from Ephorus and 600 from Phanodemus. Furthermore, Plutarch says that the Persian fleet was awaiting 80 Phoenician ships sailing from Cyprus. Although Thucydides's account is generally to be favoured, there may an element of truth in Plutarch's assertion that the Persians were awaiting further reinforcements; this would explain why Cimon was able to launch a pre-emptive assault on them. There are no estimates in the ancient sources for the size of the Persian land army. However, the number of Persian marines accompanying the fleet was presumably in the same range as the number of Greek marines (c. 5,000), since the Persian ships carried the same complement of troops. Plutarch quotes Ephorus as saying that Tithraustes was commander of the royal fleet, and Pherendatis of the infantry, but says that Callisthenes named Ariomandes as overall commander.\n\nThucydides gives only the barest of details for this battle; the most reliable detailed account is given by Plutarch. According to Plutarch, the Persian fleet was anchored off the mouth of the Eurymedon, awaiting the arrival of 80 Phoenician ships from Cyprus. Cimon, sailing from Phaselis, made to attack the Persians before the reinforcements arrived, whereupon the Persian fleet, eager to avoid fighting, retreated into the river itself. However, when Cimon continued to bear down on the Persians, they accepted battle. Regardless of their numbers, the Persian battle line was quickly breached, and the Persian ships then turned about, and made for the river bank. Grounding their ships, the crews sought sanctuary with the army waiting nearby. Some ships may have been captured or destroyed during the naval battle, but it seems likely that most were able to land.\n\nThe Persian army now began to move towards the Greek fleet, which had presumably also grounded itself in order to capture the Persian ships. Despite the weariness of his troops after this first battle, Cimon, seeing \"that his men were exalted by the impetus and pride of their victory, and eager to come to close quarters with the Barbarians\", landed the marines and proceeded to attack the Persian army. Initially the Persian line held the Athenian assault, but eventually, as at the Battle of Mycale, the heavily armoured hoplites proved superior, and routed the Persian army. Fleeing back to their camp, the Persians were then captured, along with their camp, by the victorious Greeks.\n\nThucydides says that 200 Phoenician ships were captured and destroyed. It is highly unlikely that this occurred during the apparently brief naval battle, so these were probably grounded ships captured after the battle and destroyed with fire, as has been the case at Mycale. Plutarch says that 200 ships were captured, in addition to those that were destroyed or fled. It is possible that 'destroyed' in this context means sunk during the battle, since the Greeks would almost certainly have destroyed the ships that they captured as well (as Thucydides indeed implies). Since Thucydides only explicitly gives the number of ships destroyed, it is possible to reconcile Plutarch's and Thucydides's numbers, but it is not clear that this is the best approach. There are no estimates in the ancient sources for casualties amongst the troops of either side.\n\nPlutarch says that, following his double victory, \"though like a powerful athlete he had brought down two contests in one day...Cimon still went on competing with his own victories.\" Cimon supposedly sailed with the Greek fleet as quickly as possible to intercept the fleet of 80 Phoenician ships the Persians had expected. Taking them by surprise, he captured or destroyed the entire fleet. However, Thucydides does not mention this subsidiary action, and some have cast doubt on whether it actually happened.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, one tradition had it that the Persian king (who at the time would still have been Xerxes) agreed a humiliating peace treaty in the aftermath of the Eurymedon. However, as Plutarch admits, other authors denied that such a peace was made at this time, and the more logical date for any peace treaty would have been after the Cyprus campaign of 450 BC. The alternative suggested by Plutarch is that the Persian king \"acted\" as if he had made a humiliating peace with the Greeks, because he was so fearful of engaging in battle with them again. It is generally considered unlikely by modern historians that a peace treaty was made in the aftermath of Eurymedon.\n\nThe Eurymedon was a highly significant victory for the Delian League, which probably ended once and for all the threat of another Persian invasion of Greece. It also seems to have prevented any Persian attempt to reconquer the Asiatic Greeks until at least 451 BC. The accession of further cities of Asia Minor to the Delian league, particularly from Caria, probably followed Cimon's campaign there.\n\nDespite Cimon's massive victory, something of a stalemate developed between Persia and the League. The Greeks do not appear to have pressed their advantage home in a meaningful way. If the later date of 466 BC for the Eurymedon campaign is accepted, this might be because the revolt in Thasos meant that resources were diverted away from Asia Minor to prevent the Thasians seceding from the League. Conversely, as Plutarch suggests, the Persians adopted a very defensive strategy in the Aegean for the next decade and a half. The Persian fleet was effectively absent from the Aegean until 451 BC, and Greek ships were able to ply the coasts of Asia Minor with impunity. The next major Delian League campaign against the Persians would only occur in 460 BC, when the Athenians decided to support a revolt in the Egyptian satrapy of the Persian empire. This campaign would last 6 years, before eventually ending in disaster for the Greeks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20054426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20054426", "title": "Cactus Pheasant Classic", "text": "Cactus Pheasant Classic\n\nThe Cactus Pheasant Classic was an annual curling tournament, held in late October in Brooks, Alberta. It was part of the World Curling Tour. The purse for the event $70,000 Cdn. It has not been held since 2013.\n\n\"Only skip's name is displayed.\"\n"}
{"id": "47523049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47523049", "title": "Cremà", "text": "Cremà\n\nThe cremà (Valencian for \"burning\") is the act of setting fire to a falla monument, made from materials such as cardboard and wood, during the festivities of several towns in the Valencian community, Spain. A similar celebration is the Bonfires of Saint John from Alicante, also in the Valencian community. In all cases the celebration ends with the burning of the monuments.\n\nIn the city of Valencia, where this kind of celebration originated, the cremà of each falla is held on the night of Saint Joseph's Day, March 19. It consists in burning the monuments erected on the Valencian streets on March 15. The ceremony is preceded by fireworks which are lit by the commission \"fallera mayor\". Firstly, around 10 p.m., the child monument is set on fire and at 10:30 p.m. the prize winning falla of the special section is also set on fire. After that, the main monument is burnt at midnight and after half an hour the 1st prize winner of the special section in this category is burnt too. Finally, at 1a.m. the institutional falla monument, which doesn't take part in the competition, is set on fire in the Town Hall Square.\n\nThe cremà also takes place for the Bonfires of Saint John, which are lit in Alicante. It takes place on June 24 and 25 by night, one day after St. John's Eve. The participants usually cry out to the firemen that supervise the fire to be soaked because of the summer heat and the fire; when they start doing it with hoses begins the Banyà. In Alicante the cremà starts at midnight from the castle of Santa Bárbara and it continues until 4a.m.\n\nIn all these celebrations it is usual to burn the monument with a \"traca\" (a wick lined with firecrackers that explode quickly one after another) and lately with fireworks too. Then the monument is set on fire to the beat of folk songs. In order to prevent all the monuments burning down at the same time, they are usually set on fire at different hours, depending on the prize they have won.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6729734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6729734", "title": "Dean Faiello", "text": "Dean Faiello\n\nDean Faiello (born August 31, 1959) is an American criminal currently imprisoned at Attica Correctional Facility after being found responsible for the April 2003 death of Maria Cruz, to whom he had represented himself as a dermatologist. Faiello held neither a medical degree nor a license to practice medicine.\n\nFaiello was raised in Madison, New Jersey, where he graduated from Madison High School in 1977 (and was voted \"most likely to succeed\" by his classmates). He enrolled in Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1977, but left without graduating.\n\nFaiello had worked in construction before getting a job at a day spa, where he became skilled at hair removal. In 1996, he began his own practice, SkinOvations, from an office on Park Avenue. (He later moved to an office on 133 East 73rd Street, then to an office at 117 East 18th Street in Gramercy Park.) The medical spa offered blood vessel removal, electrolysis, laser hair removal, laser skin treatments, tattoo removal, and facials.\n\nIn 1998, Faiello was charged with possession of a controlled substance, forgery and possession of a forged instrument. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor count of possession of a forged instrument and was sentenced to three years' probation. Faiello claimed on his professional website to hold a Master of Science degree from RPI and the credential of Certified Professional Electrologist, despite it lapsing in 1998 after he failed to earn continuing education units required to maintain certification.\n\nOn October 6, 2002, the \"New York Post\" published an investigation into Faiello titled \"He'll Make Your Skin Crawl\". He was arrested two days later on three counts of practicing medicine without a license, but was released on bail with the condition that he not continue to treat patients. Faiello subsequently began to see patients out of an apartment at 115 West 16th Street.\n\nOn April 13, 2003, Filipino-American investment banker Maria Cruz had an appointment with Mr. Faiello for laser treatment of black hairy tongue. She went into convulsions after he injected lidocaine into her tongue; Faiello contacted an acquaintance who was a physician and was told to rush Cruz to an emergency room. Instead of seeking immediate medical aid, Faiello took Cruz's body in a large suitcase to his home (which formerly belonged to the internationally known opera singer Maria Jeritza) in the Forest Hill neighborhood of Newark, New Jersey and buried her under the garage. Her body was found on February 18, 2004.\n\nFaiello fled the country in September 2003, entering Costa Rica on a three-month visa. He was arrested on February 26, 2004 at a resort in northwestern Costa Rica. He was imprisoned in Costa Rica and fought extradition, but was ultimately returned to the United States in May 2005 and charged with second-degree murder in the death of Ms. Cruz. He entered a plea agreement by pleading guilty to first degree assault in exchange for a 20-year prison sentence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "565476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=565476", "title": "Death and the Maiden (play)", "text": "Death and the Maiden (play)\n\nDeath and the Maiden is a 1990 play by Chilean playwright Ariel Dorfman. The world premiere was staged at the Royal Court Theatre in London on 9 July 1991, directed by Lindsay Posner. It had one reading and one workshop production prior to its world premiere.\n\n\nThe time is the present and the place, a country that is probably Chile but could be any country that has given itself a democratic government just after a long period of dictatorship.\n\nPaulina Salas is a former political prisoner in an unnamed Latin American country who had been raped by her captors, led by a sadistic doctor whose face she never saw. The rapist doctor played Schubert's String Quartet No. 14, subtitled \"Death and the Maiden\", during the act of rape; hence the play's title.\n\nYears later, after the (also unnamed) repressive regime has fallen, Paulina lives in an isolated country house with her husband, Gerardo Escobar. When Gerardo comes back from a visit to the president, he gets a flat tire. A stranger named Dr. Miranda stops to assist him. Dr. Miranda drives Gerardo home and later in the night he returns. Paulina recognizes Miranda's voice and mannerism as that of her rapist, and takes him captive in order to put him on trial and extract a confession from him.\n\nUnconvinced of his guilt, Gerardo acts as Roberto Miranda's lawyer and attempts to save his life. After hearing the full story of her captivity from Paulina, Gerardo formulates a confession with Roberto to appease Paulina's madness and set her free from her past.\n\nPaulina records the entire confession and has Roberto write it out and sign it. She sends Gerardo out to get Roberto's car so he can go home. While they are alone for the last time, Paulina accuses Roberto of being unrepentant and guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nThroughout the play it is uncertain whether details are evidence of Roberto's guilt or Paulina's paranoia. At the end of the play it is unclear who is innocent.\n\n\"Death and the Maiden\" had a reading at the Institute for Contemporary Art in London on 30 November 1990:\n\nA workshop production was staged and opened in Santiago, Chile, on 10 March 1991:\n\n\"Death and the Maiden\" had its world premiere at The Royal Court Upstairs on 9 July 1991:\nWith the same cast and director, it transferred to the Mainstage at The Royal Court on 4 November 1991.\n\nThe American Broadway premiere of \"Death and the Maiden\" opened at the Brooks Atkinson Theatre on 17 March 1992, produced by Roger Berlind, Gladys Nederlander and Frederick Zollo, in association with Thom Mount and Bonnie Timmermann:\n\nThe Australian premiere production of \"Death and the Maiden\" took place on 16 December 1992.\n\nThe Indian premiere of \"Death and the Maiden\" (in Hindi translation by Shalini Vatsa) opened at the India Habitat Centre New Delhi on 17 February 2002, produced by Asmita Theatre.\n\n\"Death and the Maiden\" returned to London's West End in 2011 at the Harold Pinter Theatre.\n\n\"Death and the Maiden\" was performed in Iran on 4 November 2015.\n\nin 2015 \"Death and the Maiden\" was staged as a co-production between the Melbourne Theatre Company (18 July-22 August) and the Sydney Theatre Company (2 September-17 October). Susie Porter played Paulina with Eugene Gilfedder as the man whose voice might be his undoing.\n\nIn 1994, Roman Polanski directed a film of the work, starring Sigourney Weaver, Ben Kingsley, and Stuart Wilson.\n\nAn opera based on the play has been composed by Jonas Forssell with the libretto by Ariel Dorfman. The world premiere was staged at the Malmö Opera on 20 September 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8452", "title": "December 27", "text": "December 27\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25955764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25955764", "title": "ElectronicAsia", "text": "ElectronicAsia\n\nelectronicAsia is a trade fair\njointly organised by the Hong Kong Trade Development Council (HKTDC) and MMI Asia Pte Ltd.\n\nThe fair is a sourcing event for components, assemblies, electronics production and display technologies and to be held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre in October every year. Major highlights of the fair include: World of Display Technology, which presents the technology research, technical improvements and emergence of innovations in display technologies; and World of Solar, which covers a range of technologies, components, products and services in solar energy, photovoltaic and renewable energy equipment, engineering and technology in the search for alternative energy sources as well as a two-day conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51048929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51048929", "title": "First May ministry", "text": "First May ministry\n\nTheresa May formed the first May ministry on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government. Then the Home Secretary, May's appointment followed the resignation of then Prime Minister David Cameron. The ministry, a Conservative majority government, succeeded the second Cameron ministry which had been formed following the 2015 general election. Cameron's government was dissolved as a result of his resignation in the immediate aftermath of the June 2016 referendum on British withdrawal from the European Union. \n\nAfter the 2017 snap general election resulted in a hung parliament, with no party holding an overall majority, May announced her intention to form a new minority government with support from the Democratic Unionist Party (see Conservative–DUP agreement).\n\nMay announced her choices for Chancellor of the Exchequer, Home Secretary, Foreign Secretary and Defence Secretary in the evening of 13 July: Philip Hammond, Amber Rudd and Boris Johnson were respectively appointed to the first three posts, while Michael Fallon continued as Defence Secretary. David Davis was appointed to the new post of Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, while Liam Fox became Secretary of State for International Trade and President of the Board of Trade. Greg Clark, who was made business secretary, was mistakenly appointed as President of the Board of Trade by the Privy Council, and held the appointment for four days before the mistake was corrected.\n\nMay's choices for the remaining cabinet posts were announced on 14 July. Justine Greening, previously international development secretary, was promoted to education secretary, and the vacancy left by Greening was filled by Priti Patel. Liz Truss, formerly environment secretary, was given the justice portfolio. Andrea Leadsom, previously a junior energy minister, and also the final opponent of Theresa May in the 2016 Conservative leadership election, was made environment secretary. James Brokenshire and Karen Bradley, both formerly junior ministers at the Home Office, were given the posts of Northern Ireland and culture, media and sport respectively. Damian Green took the post of work and pensions secretary, and Chris Grayling was made transport secretary. Finally, Sajid Javid was given the communities and local government brief.\n\nJeremy Hunt, Alun Cairns, and David Mundell retained the posts of health secretary, Welsh secretary, and Scottish secretary, respectively, which they had held during the second Cameron ministry. In contrast, May sacked 5 ministers from Cameron's Cabinet: Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, Justice Secretary Michael Gove, Culture Secretary John Whittingdale, Education Secretary Nicky Morgan, and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Oliver Letwin.\n\nIn addition, May appointed Fiona Hill and Nick Timothy as Downing Street Chiefs of Staff. Both had been political advisers to her at the Home Office, then worked outside government for a brief period before coming back to work on her leadership campaign.\n"}
{"id": "41529658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41529658", "title": "Formula Crane 45", "text": "Formula Crane 45\n\nThe Formula Crane 45 was a single-seater racing series held at Autopolis in 1991 and 1992.\n\nOwner of the Autopolis circuit Tomonori Tsurumaki ordered 30 Buick powered US built single seater race cars called Sabre FC45 for a race to take place on his circuit's grand opening, on November 1990 consisting of a mixture of invited US CART drivers such as Stan Fox, Johnny Rutherford, Dick Simon, Gary and Tony Bettenhausen, against local Japanese drivers. The cars were originally built for a spec racing class to have been run by USAC; however, this class was never realized. After the grand opening, Tsurumaki planned on a series with the cars, known as Formula Crane 45. With only a handful of cars during the 1991 and 1992 season the class was not very successful. When Autopolis went bankrupt the assets including the cars were sold to the highest bidder.\n"}
{"id": "26807303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26807303", "title": "Formula Renault 2.0 Argentina", "text": "Formula Renault 2.0 Argentina\n\nThe Argentine Formula Renault Championship, formerly known as Formula Renault 2.0 Argentina and Formula Renault 1.6 Argentina, is an open wheel racing series founded in 1980. It is based in Argentina.\n\nSince 2010 the cars have been powered by a 2000cc Renault production engine. Prior to this (from the series' inception in 1980 to 2009) the cars were powered by a 1600cc Renault production engine. Tito is currently the only chassis make allowed. Similar Tito 02 cars are used in the Chilean Formula Three Championship.\n\nTyres are allocated to each driver in sets of 4 at each race meeting.\n\nAll champions were Argentine-registered.\n"}
{"id": "4189611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4189611", "title": "George Donner", "text": "George Donner\n\nGeorge Donner (1784–March 1847) was the leader of the Donner Party, a group of California-bound American settlers who became snow covered in the Sierra Nevada of Alta California, Mexico in the winter of 1846–1847. Nearly half of the party starved to death, and some of the emigrants resorted to cannibalism.\n\nGeorge Donner was born circa 1784 near Salem, North Carolina. He was the third child and eldest son of George Donner (circa 1752-1844) and Mary Huff (circa 1755-1842). George had three sisters and three brothers, one of whom, Jacob (circa 1789-1846), accompanied him to California as did George's third wife, Tamsen Donner. \n\nBefore emigrating westward, George Donner lived just outside Springfield, Illinois. On April 14, 1846, he, his brother Jacob, and James F. Reed, along with their families and hired hands, set out for California in covered wagons as part of the Boggs Company. Three months later, at the Little Sandy River in Wyoming, George was chosen to lead the group, now known as the Donner-Reed Party or Donner Party. The Donner Party took the Hastings Cutoff through the Wasatch Mountains in Utah and crossed the Great Salt Lake Desert, rejoining the California Trail west of Elko, Nevada. They arrived at the Sierra Nevada late in the season and were trapped by snow on the eastern side of Truckee Lake (now Donner Lake) west of Truckee, California. \n\nA rescue party was organized. However, when they arrived Jacob Donner was dead, and George Donner's arm had become gangrenous from an injury to his hand sustained en route to the campsite, while repairing a broken wagon axle. The rescuers took George's daughters Elitha and Leanna, leaving George and his wife behind. The second and third rescue parties found George too weak to travel. When the fourth and last relief party arrived on April 17, 1847, they found George dead in his bed. Some other accounts of George's death indicate that his body had been mutilated.\n\nThe children of George Donner's first marriage stayed behind in Illinois, but those of his second marriage (Elitha and Leanna) and third marriage (Frances, Georgia, and Eliza) accompanied him to California. All five of them survived. \n\n"}
{"id": "16737643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16737643", "title": "Golden Speech", "text": "Golden Speech\n\nThe Golden Speech was delivered by Queen Elizabeth I of England in the Palace Council Chamber to 141 Members of the Commons (including the Speaker), on 30 November 1601. It was a speech that was expected to be addressing some pricing concerns, based on the recent economic issues facing the country. Surprisingly, she revealed that it would be her final Parliament and turned the mode of the speech to addressing the love and respect she had for the country, her position, and the Members themselves. It is the second such speech for which Queen Elizabeth I was noted, the first, the Speech to the Troops at Tilbury, having been given to English forces in preparation for the Spanish Armada's expected invasion. The Golden Speech has been taken to mark a symbolic end of Elizabeth's reign, one which is widely considered one of the Golden Eras of England's history. Elizabeth died 16 months later in March 1603 and was succeeded by her first cousin twice removed, James VI of Scotland and I of England.\n\nThe 'Golden' label was first coined in \"a version of the speech printed near the end of the Puritan interregnum\" \nwhich bore a header beginning 'This speech ought to be set in letters of gold'.\nIt was to be reprinted time and time again up to the eighteenth century, whenever England was in danger, as the Golden Speech of Queen Elizabeth. \nSeveral versions survive, including a printed pamphlet which is thought to have been checked and corrected by Elizabeth herself.\n\n= The Speech = \n\nA different account by the diarist, Hayward Townshend, who was among those kneeling before her that November afternoon in the Presence Chamber, is used in the text below.\"\"Mr Speaker,\" ...\"We have heard your declaration and perceive your care of our estate. I do assure you there is no prince that loves his subjects better, or whose love can countervail our love. There is no jewel, be it of never so rich a price, which I set before this jewel: I mean your love. For I do esteem it more than any treasure or riches; for that we know how to prize, but love and thanks I count invaluable. And, though God hath raised me high, yet this I count the glory of my Crown, that I have reigned with your loves. This makes me that I do not so much rejoice that God hath made me to be a Queen, as to be a Queen over so thankful a people. Therefore I have cause to wish nothing more than to content the subject and that is a duty which I owe. Neither do I desire to live longer days than I may see your prosperity and that is my only desire. And as I am that person still yet, under God, hath delivered you and so I trust by the almighty power of God that I shall be His instrument to preserve you from every peril, dishonour, shame, tyranny and oppression, partly by means of your intended helps which we take very acceptably because it manifesteth the largeness of your good loves and loyalties unto your sovereign.\n\n\"Of myself I must say this: I never was any greedy, scraping grasper, nor a strait fast-holding Prince, nor yet a waster. My heart was never set on any worldly goods. What you bestow on me, I will not hoard it up, but receive it to bestow on you again. Therefore, render unto them I beseech you Mr Speaker, such thanks as you imagine my heart yieldeth, but my tongue cannot express. Mr Speaker, I would wish you and the rest to stand up for I shall yet trouble you with longer speech. Mr Speaker, you give me thanks but I doubt me I have greater cause to give you thanks, than you me, and I charge you to thank them of the Lower House from me. For had I not received a knowledge from you, I might have fallen into the lapse of an error, only for lack of true information.\n\n\"Since I was Queen, yet did I never put my pen to any grant, but that upon pretext and semblance made unto me, it was both good and beneficial to the subject in general though a private profit to some of my ancient servants, who had deserved well at my hands. But the contrary being found by experience, I am exceedingly beholden to such subjects as would move the same at first. And I am not so simple to suppose but that there be some of the Lower House whom these grievances never touched. I think they spake out of zeal to their countries and not out of spleen or malevolent affection as being parties grieved. That my grants should be grievous to my people and oppressions to be privileged under colour of our patents, our kingly dignity shall not suffer it. Yea, when I heard it, I could give no rest unto my thoughts until I had reformed it. Shall they, think you, escape unpunished that have oppressed you, and have been respectless of their duty and regardless our honour? No, I assure you, Mr Speaker, were it not more for conscience' sake than for any glory or increase of love that I desire, these errors, troubles, vexations and oppressions done by these varlets and lewd persons not worthy of the name of subjects should not escape without condign punishment. But I perceive they dealt with me like physicians who, ministering a drug, make it more acceptable by giving it a good aromatical savour, or when they give pills do gild them all over.\n\n\"I have ever used to set the Last Judgement Day before mine eyes and so to rule as I shall be judged to answer before a higher judge, and now if my kingly bounties have been abused and my grants turned to the hurt of my people contrary to my will and meaning, and if any in authority under me have neglected or perverted what I have committed to them, I hope God will not lay their culps and offenses in my charge. I know the title of a King is a glorious title, but assure yourself that the shining glory of princely authority hath not so dazzled the eyes of our understanding, but that we well know and remember that we also are to yield an account of our actions before the great judge. To be a king and wear a crown is a thing more glorious to them that see it than it is pleasant to them that bear it. For myself I was never so much enticed with the glorious name of a King or royal authority of a Queen as delighted that God hath made me his instrument to maintain his truth and glory and to defend his kingdom as I said from peril, dishonour, tyranny and oppression. There will never Queen sit in my seat with more zeal to my country, care to my subjects and that will sooner with willingness venture her life for your good and safety than myself. For it is my desire to live nor reign no longer than my life and reign shall be for your good. And though you have had, and may have, many princes more mighty and wise sitting in this seat, yet you never had nor shall have, any that will be more careful and loving.\n\n\" 'For I, oh Lord, what am I, whom practices and perils past should not fear? Or what can I do? That I should speak for any glory, God forbid.' And turning to the Speaker and her councilors she said, 'And I pray to you Mr Comptroller, Mr Secretary and you of my Council, that before these gentlemen go into their countries, you bring them all to kiss my hand.' \" \"\n\n"}
{"id": "37810223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37810223", "title": "Greek legislative election, January 2015", "text": "Greek legislative election, January 2015\n\nThe January 2015 Greek legislative election was held in Greece on Sunday, 25 January, to elect all 300 members to the Hellenic Parliament in accordance with the constitution. The election was held earlier than scheduled due to the failure of the Greek parliament to elect a new president on 29 December 2014.\n\n21 parties, 4 party coalitions and 1 independent candidate applied for participation in the elections. The supreme court decided that 18 parties, 4 party coalitions could participate.\n\nThe Coalition of the Radical Left, SYRIZA, won a legislative election for the first time ever, securing 149 out of the 300 seats, 2 seats short of an absolute majority. On the other hand, conservative and then-ruling New Democracy lost 53 seats and obtained its worst result ever in terms of seats won. Social-democratic PASOK, ND's coalition partner, was reduced to just 13 seats (from 33 in 2012), falling to 7th place and becoming the last party to surpass the 3% threshold. Golden Dawn lost some support and was reduced by one seat to 17, yet became the 3rd political force in Greece thanks to the loss of support by both PASOK and the nationalist conservative Independent Greeks party, ANEL. Stavros Theodorakis' newly-created To Potami party entered parliament with 17 seats and 6.1% of the vote. The Communist Party of Greece won 15 seats, 3 more than it had won in June 2012. DIMAR, a former coalition partner until June 2013, failed to enter parliament after winning a mere 0.5% of the vote, insufficient to be eligible for seats.\n\nAlexis Tsipras was sworn in as Prime Minister of Greece on 26 January 2015, after reaching a coalition agreement with ANEL.\n\nGreece suffered three distinct economic recessions in the turmoil of the Global Financial Crisis , with private markets becoming inaccessible as a lending source since May 2010 (due to a Debt-to-GDP ratio exceeding 146%), leaving the state to choose between accepting conditional bailout funding from the Troika (Eurogroup, IMF, and ECB), or the path of a sovereign default along with being forced to leave the euro. The outgoing government chose to accept the offered conditional bailout funding, outlining a certain level of economic reforms, privatization and austerity to be achieved throughout the programme period from May 2010 until March 2016. In return, Greece was scheduled to receive: €245.6 billion of long-term bailout loans (with an interest rate moratorium until 2020), and Greece was also rewarded by private creditors accepting a debt restructuring deal - cutting of the debt burden of the state by €127.1 billion in 2012 - while also transforming the remaining debt pile from short-term bonds with high interest rates to long-term bonds with low interest rates.\n\nThe incumbent government was formed after the June 2012 election by New Democracy, Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), and Democratic Left (DIMAR). Antonis Samaras of New Democracy was Prime Minister. PASOK and DIMAR declined to participate in Samaras' cabinet, which was thus composed of New Democracy members and independents. By April 2013, the government held 167 seats, down from 179 elected in the 2012 election. Of those, nine were expelled for voting against austerity packages, and three left voluntarily.\n\nOn 21 June 2013, DIMAR chose to withdraw from the governing coalition in protest of the unilateral closure of the state-owned Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation (ERT), ten days before; an action opposed by both DIMAR and PASOK. and incriminated by Greece's highest administrative court, the Council of State. DIMAR's withdrawal left the government with a slim three seat majority of 153 seats. Antonis Manitakis, the Minister of Administrative Reform, and Antonis Roupakiotis, the Minister of Justice, both independents, also submitted their resignation to the government.\n\nDIMAR said that while they would still work with the government on a case-by-case basis, following another election the party could also work with a SYRIZA-led government.\n\nIn an interview with \"Bild\" on 10 February 2014, Samaras insisted that Greece did not need a new bailout, despite reports in Germany that the Greek Finance Ministry was working on a plan for one. The German Finance Ministry estimated that a third bailout (if established) would have a size between 10 and 20 billion euros.\n\nBoth of the latest bailout programme audit reports, released independently by the European Commission and IMF in June 2014, revealed that after transfer of the scheduled bailout funds and full implementation of the agreed adjustment package in 2012, there was a new forecast financing gap of: \"€5.6bn in 2014, €12.3bn in 2015, and €0bn in 2016\". The new forecast financing gaps, were needed either to be covered by the government's additional lending from private capital markets - or a third additional bailout loan, but could alternatively also be countered by additional fiscal improvements through expenditure reductions, revenue hikes or increased amount of privatizations. Due to an improved outlook for the Greek economy, with achievement of a sustained government structural surplus since 2012 - along with both a decline of the unemployment rate and return of positive real GDP growth in 2014, it was possible for the Greek government to return to the bond market during the course of 2014 - for the purpose to fully fund its new extra financing gaps by additional private capital. A total of €6.1bn was raised from the sale of three-year and five-year bonds in 2014, and the outgoing ND led government planned to cover its forecast financing gap for 2015 by a continued additional sale of seven-year and ten-year bonds in 2015.\n\nDuring the second half of 2014, the Greek government again negotiated with the Troika. The negotiations were this time about how to comply with the programme requirements, to ensure activation of the payment of its last scheduled eurozone bailout tranche in December 2014, and about a potential update of its remaining bailout programme for 2015–16. When calculating the impact of the 2015 fiscal budget presented by the Greek government, there were a disagreement, with the calculations of the Greek government showing it fully complied with the goals of its agreed \"Midterm fiscal plan 2013–16\", while the Troika calculations were less optimistic and concluded that a financing gap of €2.5bn existed (which would have to be covered by additional austerity measures). As the Greek government insisted its calculations were more accurate than those presented by the Troika, it submitted an unchanged fiscal budget bill to the parliament, which was passed by 155 against 134 votes on 7 December. The Eurogroup met on 8 December and agreed to support a technical two-month extension of the part of the Greek bailout programme under its guidance, making time both for completion of the long-awaited fifth final programme review and assessing the possibility for the European Stability Mechanism to set up a precautionary Enhanced Conditions Credit Line (ECCL) in place by 1 March 2015. As part of the review of the bailout programme, the outgoing ND led government had proposed to the Troika, immediately to end the previously agreed and continuing IMF bailout programme for 2015–16, replacing it with the transfer of €11bn unused bank recapitalization funds currently held as reserve by Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF) (funds in excess from the part of the bailout programme under the guidance of the eurozone), along with establishment of the precautionary ECCL. In December, the Troika announced it was willing to accept this plan by the Greek government of an early exit from the bailout programme accompanied by setting up an precautionary ECCL, conditional the fifth review of the existing bailout programme first had found Greece in full compliance with its terms.\n\nThe election scene is expected to take place between pro- and anti-bailout parties. The parties being pro-bailout (ND, Pasok and Potami) argues there is no viable alternative compared to respecting and completing the existing bailout programme under the guidance of the eurozone - so that it can be exited and replaced by a precautionary ECCL on 1 March 2015. While the anti-bailout left-wing Coalition of the Radical Left (SYRIZA) party, argues it will be better to tear apart the existing bailout programme - followed by an attempt to negotiate a new creditor agreement with better terms for Greece.\n\nOn 8 December 2014, Samaras announced that the presidential election would be brought forward by a few months. The first round of voting was held on 17 December, the second on 23 December and the third on 29 December. On 9 December 2014, Samaras had announced the candidacy of ND politician Stavros Dimas, jointly supported by the ruling ND–PASOK coalition, for the presidency.\n\nIn the event of no super-majority after the third ballot the Greek Constitution requires the Parliament to be dissolved within ten days of the vote and snap elections to be called. As the ND–PASOK coalition did not have enough seats in Parliament to ensure the election of a President by itself, there was a high possibility of an impasse on the choice, requiring a snap election.\n\nOn 29 December 2014, after failing to elect a presidential candidate in the third round of voting with the required 180 votes, prime minister Samaras asked incumbent president Karolos Papoulias to dissolve the parliament. On 31 December, Papoulias formally dissolved the parliament by decree and set the new election to be held on 25 January and the new parliament to reconvene on 5 February 2015.\n\nThe snap parliamentary elections called because of political opposition in the Greek parliament to elect a new Greek president, threatened to endanger the recently gained Greek recovery, according to several international economic analysts. The rising political uncertainty also caused the Troika to suspend all scheduled remaining financial aid to Greece under its bailout programme, while noting its support would only resume pending the formation of a new-elect government respecting the already negotiated conditions. Opinion polls ahead of the election provided the anti-bailout party Syriza - which announced it would not comply with the previously negotiated terms in the bailout agreement and demand a \"write down on most of the nominal value of debt, so that it becomes sustainable\" - with a lead, causing adverse developments on financial markets, with the Athens Stock Exchange suffering an accumulated loss of roughly 30% since the start of December 2014, and the interest rate of the ten-year government bond rising from a low of 5.6% in September 2014 to 10.6% on 7 January 2015. According to the ECB Executive Board member from France, \"It is illegal and contrary to the treaty to reschedule a debt of a state held by a central bank\", meaning such a thing would be incompatible with continued membership of the eurozone. However, the risk of a Greek withdrawal from the eurozone as a result of the upcoming elections were assessed by economists from Commerzbank only to be around 25%, assuming the election would end with the same result as measured by the opinion polls in early January.\n\n9,808,760 registered voters were called up to vote, with voting being mandatory. However, none of the legally existing penalties or sanctions have ever been enforced. Rigid restrictions required citizens to cast the ballot in the specific voting district they have been registered to. Combined with the absence of absentee ballots, early voting procedures or voting procedures for expatriate Greeks, many Greeks simply couldn't afford travelling to \"their\" voting district. With the rising number of expatriates, the turnout was expected to be below the turnout of the 2012 elections.\n\n250 seats were distributed on the basis of proportional representation, with a threshold of 3% required for entry into parliament. Blank and invalid votes, as well as votes cast for parties that fall short of the 3% threshold, are disregarded for seat allocation purposes. 50 additional seats were awarded as a majority bonus to the party that wins a plurality of votes, with coalitions in that regard not being counted as an overall party but having their votes counted separately for each party in the coalition, according to the election law. Parliamentary majority is achieved by a party or coalition of parties that command at least one half plus one (151 out of 300) of total seats.\n"}
{"id": "374231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374231", "title": "J. D. Tippit", "text": "J. D. Tippit\n\nJ. D. Tippit (September 18, 1924 – November 22, 1963) was an American police officer who was an 11-year veteran with the Dallas Police Department. About 45 minutes after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, Tippit was shot dead in a residential neighborhood in the Oak Cliff section of Dallas. Lee Harvey Oswald was initially arrested for the murder of Tippit and was subsequently arrested for the killing of President Kennedy. Oswald was charged with both crimes shortly after his arrest. However, Oswald denied involvement in either of the cases. Because Oswald was shot and killed by nightclub owner Jack Ruby two days after the killings, he could not be prosecuted for either.\n\nTippit was born near the town of Annona in Red River County, Texas. He was the eldest of seven children (two girls and five boys) to Edgar Lee Tippit (1902–2006), a sharecropper cotton farmer, and Lizzie Mae \"May Bug\" Tippit (née Rush; 1905–1990). The Tippit and Rush families were of English ancestry, their ancestors having immigrated to Virginia from England by 1635. It is sometimes reported that J.D. stood for \"Jefferson Davis\", but in fact, the letters did not stand for anything. Tippit attended public schools through the tenth grade and was raised as a Baptist, a faith he practiced for the rest of his life. In the fall of 1939, when he was 15, his family moved to Baker Lane, a stretch of dirt road six miles southwest from Clarksville. He entered the United States Army on July 21, 1944, and was assigned to the 513th Parachute Infantry Regiment of the US 17th Airborne Division. He saw combat in Operation Varsity, the airborne crossing of the Rhine River in March 1945, earning a Bronze Star, and remained on active duty until June 20, 1946.\n\nTippit married his high school sweetheart, Marie Frances Gasway, on December 26, 1946. The couple had three children: Charles Allan (born 1950), Brenda Kay (born 1953) and Curtis Glenn (born 1958). That same year, he went to work for the Dearborn Stove Company. He next worked for Sears, Roebuck and Company in the installation department from March 1948 to September 1949 when he was laid off. The couple moved to Lone Star, Texas, where Tippit attempted to farm and raise cattle.\n\nIn January 1950, Tippit enrolled in a Veterans Administration vocational training school at Bogata, Texas. He left the school in June 1952. After facing several setbacks as a farmer and rancher, Tippit decided to become a police officer. The Tippit family then moved to Dallas where Tippit was hired by the Dallas Police Department as a patrolman in July 1952. During his time with the Dallas Police Department, Officer Tippit was cited twice for bravery.\n\nAt the time of his death, Tippit was assigned to Dallas Police vehicle #10, had badge #848 and was earning a salary of $490 a month (worth $ in 2015) as a Dallas police officer. He was also working two part-time jobs; he worked at Austin's Barbecue restaurant on Friday and Saturday nights and at the Stevens Park Theatre on Sundays.\n\nOn November 22, 1963, J.D. Tippit was working beat number 78, his normal patrol area in south Oak Cliff, a residential area of Dallas.\n\nAt 12:45 p.m., 15 minutes after Kennedy was shot, Tippit received a radio order to drive to the central Oak Cliff area as part of a concentration of police around the center of the city. At 12:54, Tippit radioed that he had moved as directed. By then several messages had been broadcast describing a suspect in the killing of Kennedy as a slender white male, in his early thirties, tall, and weighing about . Oswald was a slender white male, 24 years old, tall, and an estimated weight of at autopsy.\n\nAt approximately 1:11–1:14 p.m., Tippit was driving slowly eastward on East 10th Street — about past the intersection of 10th Street and Patton Avenue — when he pulled alongside a man who resembled the police description. Oswald walked over to Tippit's car and apparently exchanged words with him through an open vent window. Tippit opened his car door and as he walked toward the front of the car, Oswald drew his handgun and fired four shots in rapid succession. One bullet hit Tippit in the chest, one in the stomach, another in his right temple (one bullet hit a button and did not penetrate his skin). Tippit's body was transported from the scene of the shooting by ambulance to Methodist Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 1:25 p.m. by Dr. Richard A. Liguori.\n\nA short time later, Hardy's shoe store manager Johnny Brewer observed Oswald acting suspiciously as police cars passed nearby with sirens blaring. Oswald then ducked into the Texas Theatre without purchasing a ticket. The police were notified by the theater's cashier and responded by surrounding the theater. Oswald was arrested after a brief struggle.\n\nTwelve people who witnessed the shooting or its aftermath were mentioned in The Warren Report. Domingo Benavides saw Tippit standing by the left door of his parked police car, and a man standing on the right side of the car. He then heard shots and saw Tippit fall to the ground. Benavides stopped his pickup truck on the opposite side of the street from Tippit's car. He observed the shooter fleeing the scene and removing spent cartridge cases from his gun as he left.\n\nBenavides waited in his truck until the gunman disappeared before assisting Tippit. He then reported the shooting to police headquarters, using the radio in Tippit's car. Helen Markham witnessed the shooting and then saw a man with a gun in his hand leave the scene. Markham identified Lee Harvey Oswald as Tippit's killer in a police lineup she viewed that evening. Barbara Davis and her sister-in-law Virginia Davis heard the shots and saw a man crossing their lawn, shaking his revolver, as if he were emptying it of cartridge cases. Later, the women found two cartridge cases near the crime scene and handed the cases over to police.\n\nThat evening, Barbara Davis and Virginia Davis were taken to a lineup and both Davises picked out Oswald as the man whom they had seen.\n\nTaxicab driver William Scoggins testified that he was sitting nearby in his cab when he saw Tippit's police car pull up alongside a man on the sidewalk. Scoggins heard three or four shots and then saw Tippit fall to the ground. As Scoggins crouched behind his cab, the man passed within twelve feet of him, pistol in hand, muttering what sounded to him like, \"poor dumb cop\" or \"poor damn cop.\" The next day, Scoggins viewed a police lineup and identified Oswald as the man whom he had seen with the pistol.\n\nThe Commission also named several other witnesses who were not at the scene of the murder, but who identified Oswald running between the murder scene and the Texas Theatre, where Oswald was subsequently arrested. Four cartridge cases were found at the scene by eyewitnesses.\n\nIt was the unanimous testimony of expert witnesses before the Warren Commission that these spent cartridge cases were fired from the revolver in Oswald's possession to the exclusion of all other weapons.\n\nUpon his arrest and during subsequent questionings by police, Lee Harvey Oswald denied any involvement in Tippit's murder. Based on eyewitness' statements and the gun found in Oswald's possession at the time of his arrest, he was formally charged with the murder of J.D. Tippit at 7:10 pm. on November 22. During the course of the day, police began to suspect that Oswald was also involved in the shooting of President Kennedy.\n\nAt approximately 1:00 am on November 23, Oswald was also charged with assassinating President John F. Kennedy. Oswald continued to maintain his innocence in connection with both murders. In the late morning of November 24, while being transported from the Dallas City Jail to the Dallas County Jail, Oswald was fatally shot in the abdomen by Dallas nightclub owner Jack Ruby. The shooting was broadcast throughout the United States and Canada on live television.\n\nAs Oswald was killed before he was tried for either crime, President Lyndon B. Johnson commissioned a committee of U.S. Senators, Congressmen and elder statesmen to investigate the events surrounding the deaths of President Kennedy, Officer Tippit and Oswald in an effort to answer questions surrounding the events. President Johnson also hoped to quell rumors that arose after Oswald was shot by Jack Ruby that the assassination and subsequent shootings were part of a conspiracy. The committee, known as the Warren Commission (named for the commission chairman, Chief Justice Earl Warren), spent ten months investigating the murders and interviewing witnesses. On September 24, 1964, the Warren Commission released an 888-page report that concluded there was no evidence of a conspiracy and Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone in killing President Kennedy and Officer Tippit. The report also concluded that Jack Ruby acted alone in the killing of Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\nIn 1979, the House Select Committee on Assassinations reported: \"Based on Oswald's possession of the murder weapon a short time after the murder and the eyewitness identifications of Oswald as the gunman, the committee concluded that Oswald shot and killed Officer Tippit.\"\n\nSome conspiracy theorists have alleged that the murder of Officer Tippit was part of a conspiracy to kill President Kennedy. Implying that two murders could not have happened so closely together by coincidence, his killing is often referred to as the \"Rosetta Stone\" to the solution of the Kennedy assassination by critics of the official findings. Some critics dispute that Oswald shot Tippit, arguing that the physical evidence and witness testimony do not support that conclusion. Other critics state that Tippit himself was a conspirator, tasked to kill Oswald by organized crime or right-wing politicians in order to cover up the search for other assassins.\n\nOn the evening of the assassination, both Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and the new President, Lyndon B. Johnson, called Tippit's widow to express their sympathies. Jacqueline Kennedy wrote a letter expressing sorrow for the bond they shared. The plight of Tippit's family also moved much of the nation and a total of $647,579 was donated to them following the assassination. One of the largest individual gifts was $25,000 that Dallas businessman Abraham Zapruder donated to Frances Tippit after selling his film of the president's assassination to \"Life\" magazine.\n\nA funeral service for J.D. Tippit was held on November 25, 1963, at the Beckley Hills Baptist Church, with the burial following at Laurel Land Memorial Park in Dallas. His funeral was held on the same day as those of both President Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald.\n\nIn January 1964, Tippit was posthumously awarded the Medal of Valor from the American Police Hall of Fame, and he also received the Police Medal of Honor, the Police Cross, and the Citizens Traffic Commission Award of Heroism. A state historical marker to Officer Tippit was unveiled November 20, 2012 at the location where the shooting occurred.\n\nTippit's widow married Dallas police lieutenant Harry Dean Thomas in January 1967. They were married until his death in 1982. Marie Tippit later married Carl Flinner; the marriage ended in divorce after which Marie resumed using the surname of Tippit.\n\nIn movies, Tippit has been portrayed by Price Carson in 1991's \"JFK\", and David Duchovny in 1992's \"Ruby\". He was also portrayed by Matt Micou in the 2013 television drama \"Killing Kennedy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37078540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37078540", "title": "Jalari in corto", "text": "Jalari in corto\n\nThe international film festival, Jalari in Corto, is held annually at Parco Jalari in Barcellona Pozzo di Gotto in Sicily. It began in the summer of 2004, having been conceived by young people of the cultural-ethnographic association \"Associazione Culturale Etnografica Ambientale “Jalari”\" and by Andrea Italiano. Its aim has been to promote, raise awareness and bring the art of cinema, and the communicative power of artistic expression in general, to as many people as possible through short films and meetings with authors, actors and critics. Year after year, the event has gained great fame, standing today as a springboard for both national and international young cinematic artists to gain exposure to a wider audience and increase visibility.\n\nThe festival offers film awards in several categories:\n\nAwards in 2012 were given to:\n\n"}
{"id": "7051038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7051038", "title": "Japan Le Mans Challenge", "text": "Japan Le Mans Challenge\n\nThe Japan Le Mans Challenge (abbreviated JLMC) was an endurance sportscar series based in Japan built around the 24 Hours of Le Mans that began in 2006. It was run by the Sports Car Endurance Race Operation (SERO) sanctioning body and ran under the rules laid out by the Automobile Club de l'Ouest (ACO). It is the first endurance sportscar series in Japan since the demise of the All Japan Sports Prototype Championship in 1992, although the ACO had run a single endurance race since then, the 1999 Le Mans Fuji 1000 km. The series was cancelled in 2007 following two poor seasons.\n\nThe rules for the JLMC were based around the rules used by the ACO for the 24 Hours of Le Mans endurance race in France, similar to those used by the Le Mans Series in Europe and the American Le Mans Series in North America. Cars were broken into two general classes, known as Le Mans Prototypes (LMP) and Grand Touring (GT). These classes were further broken down into a larger, more powerful class and a cheaper, less powerful class, which created four classes: LMP1, LMP2, GT1, and GT2. All four classes raced at the same time on the same track, with a winner being declared for each class as well as an overall race winner. Points were based on finishing position are awarded for overall championships amongst drivers, teams, and engine builders. However, unlike the two other Le Mans-based series, the JLMC allowed cars which did not meet ACO guidelines in an attempt to increase the number of entrants. This was allowed with the belief that by 2008, JLMC would fully adapt to ACO rules and run fully compliant cars.\n\nThe ACO planned to also grant automatic entries to the 24 Hours of Le Mans for the teams that win the season championships in each class. However, due to the use of cars which do not meet ACO guidelines, this plan for invitations was also moved to 2008.\n\nDuring the brief two seasons of the Japan Le Mans Challenge, the series struggled to provide grids similar to those in the American Le Mans Series and Le Mans Series. Most races averaged approximately 12 cars total, with only a few meeting actual LMP and GT regulations. Mugen Motorsports backed an LMP1 entry using one of their engines, while Hitotsuyama Racing attempted to increase field size by entering cars in two of the four classes. The LMP2 class however consisted entirely of rebodied single seaters, some of these were modified Dallara F3s from the domestic GC21 Championship. Even with some factory support and proven Le Mans cars, most teams struggled to survive the 1000 kilometer race distances. The first two races of the 2006 season were won by a Hitotsuyama Ferrari 550 Maranello in the GT1 class, while the two proper LMP1s failed to finish. It was not until the final race of 2006 that Mugen's LMP managed to earn an overall victory.\n\nFor 2007, Hitotsuyama's Zytek LMP1 managed to prove reliable enough to earn the first three victories of the season, before it once again struggled to finish in the final race of the year, leaving an LMP2 GC21 to take overall victory. During that 2007 season, SERO announced that they were relinquishing control of the series due to their failure to promote it and increase not only grid size, but also fan viewership. The ACO initially announced that they were to take over the series for 2008. However, shortly after this announcement, the ACO announced their intentions to cancel the series entirely, citing a continued lack of participants as well as being unable to make contracts with circuits over the lack of ticket sales.\n\nThe ACO announced a new Asian-based sports car series in 2009, which will encompass all of Asia in an attempt to increase support from outside Japan. A teasing race was to be held at the Shanghai International Circuit on November 1–2, 2008 but was later cancelled. The inaugural 2009 season is planned to comprise at least four 3-hour races: two at Okayama International Circuit on October 30–November 1, and the other two at Shanghai on November 7–8. The winners will be awarded entries for the 2010 24 Hours of Le Mans. The ACO aims to attract teams from ALMS, LMS and the Super GT.\n\n"}
{"id": "24608811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24608811", "title": "John Todd (conspiracy theorist)", "text": "John Todd (conspiracy theorist)\n\nJohn Wayne Todd (May 19, 1949 – November 10, 2007), also known as \"John Todd Collins\", \"Lance Collins\", \"Kris Sarayn Kollyns\", and \"Christopher Kollyns\", was an American speaker and conspiracy theorist. He claimed to be a former occultist who was born into a 'witchcraft family' before converting to Christianity. He was a primary source for many Chick Publications works against \"Dungeons & Dragons\", Catholicism, Neopaganism, and Christian rock.\n\nIn his public appearances, Todd made a variety of claims about witches, Satanists, and the Illuminati, who he alleged were conspiring against Christians. These purported conspiracies often included government officials and leaders of Christian organizations. Investigative reports in magazines and books said there were many inconsistencies in his statements about anti-Christian conspiracies and his own past.\n\nIn 1988 Todd was convicted in South Carolina on charges of rape and sentenced to 30 years in a prison. In 2004 he was released from prison and placed in a psychiatric facility, where he died in 2007.\n\nTodd's earliest known public speaking engagements began in 1968, when he was preaching and married to a woman named Linda. He claimed he had been a witch while in the United States Navy, but converted to Christianity while visiting a southern Californian Pentecostal church. After disappearing from public sight for a few months, Todd returned without his wife, saying that God told them to seek other mates. In 1969, Todd joined the United States Army and was stationed in Germany for a few months before being discharged for psychiatric reasons and drug abuse.\n\nIn 1972 Todd became associated with a Jesus Movement coffeehouse. In 1973, he appeared on a local Christian television show in Phoenix, Arizona, and was invited by evangelist Doug Clark to appear on his \"Amazing Prophecies\" show on the Faith Broadcasting Network. However, allegations surfaced that he had been making sexual advances toward young women and teenage girls at the coffeehouse, was incorporating witchcraft teachings into his Bible studies, was carrying a .38 caliber handgun into church meetings, and was using drugs. In addition, he impregnated his wife's teenage sister. Todd was dismissed from the coffeehouse ministry, and Clark denounced him on his television show.\n\nIn 1974 Todd moved to Dayton, Ohio, where he opened an occult bookstore and began recruiting for a Wiccan coven. In 1976 Todd became the subject of a criminal investigation over reports that he was involving underage girls in sexual initiation rituals for his coven. Following an investigation of his activities by neopagan leaders Isaac Bonewits and Gavin Frost, which uncovered drug use and underage sex, Frost's Church and School of Wicca revoked the charter it had granted to Todd's coven. He was convicted of contributing to the delinquency of a minor and given a six-month sentence, but served only two months before being released due to epileptic fits.\n\nTodd resurfaced in the evangelical Christian community in late 1977, this time claiming the existence of a vast Satanic conspiracy led by an order of witches called the Illuminati, supposedly including a number of Christian organizations and well-known Christian figures such as Jim Bakker, Jerry Falwell, Billy Graham, Bob Jones, Sr., Oral Roberts, and Pat Robertson. He claimed to have given, as a member of the Illuminati, $8 million to Pastor Chuck Smith of Calvary Chapel to launch the Christian rock industry, which Todd said was a Satanic invention to entrap Christian young people in rock music and its \"demonic beat\". He claimed that Falwell had been bribed by the Illuminati with a $50 million donation. He also claimed that US President Jimmy Carter was the Antichrist and that Ayn Rand's 1957 novel \"Atlas Shrugged\" was the Illuminati's blueprint for unleashing a planned Satanic takeover. He urged Christians to stockpile weapons and food in preparation for a Satanic takeover in 1980.\n\nTapes from Todd around 1979 indicate that he was then teaching Oneness Pentecostal (sometimes called \"Jesus Only\") theology. Todd significantly curtailed his public speaking after 1979, reportedly moving to rural Montana after issuing warnings that the Satanic takeover had begun. He was later reported to have delivered a speech in Cedar Falls, Iowa in 1983 at the invitation of Randy Weaver.\n\nTodd was arrested in May 1987 for the rape of a University of South Carolina graduate student. After his arrest, he was additionally charged with sexually molesting two children who attended a karate school where he worked. He was convicted of the rape in January 1988 and sentenced to 30 years in state prison. In 2004, Todd was released, but he was put in the care of the Behavioral Disorder Treatment Unit run by the South Carolina Department of Mental Health. On November 10, 2007, Todd died in the institute.\n\nTodd claimed to have served as a Green Beret in the Vietnam War, but his discharge papers list him as a general clerk/typist and do not record him having been in Vietnam. Army medical reports referred to \"emotional instability with pseudologica phantastica\" (compulsive lying), difficulty in telling reality from fantasy, homicidal threats he had made on another, false suicide reports, and a severe personality disturbance. Todd also claimed in his testimony to have murdered an officer in Germany and to have escaped prison with the help of the Illuminati, but his records show no such things occurred. These records were later recovered by investigative journalists working for \"Christianity Today\", who found that he had never been to Vietnam. One report concluded that Todd found it difficult to distinguish reality and fantasy. Todd also claimed that John F. Kennedy was still alive and that he had been Kennedy's \"personal warlock\".\n\nWhile Todd claimed to have left witchcraft in 1972 and converted to fundamentalist Christianity, accounts have him being baptized into a Oneness Pentecostal church in Phoenix, Arizona in 1968, and leading a Wiccan group in Ohio in 1976. When confronted with the latter by Christian evangelists, Todd said that he had gone through a period of \"backsliding\" during that time. However, when a number of other inconsistencies in Todd's story were reported in the evangelical Christian media, and Todd began denouncing many Christian leaders as part of the Satanic conspiracy or the Illuminati, many evangelists denounced Todd and cut off any further association. Jack Chick was the only influential evangelist to continue to defend Todd.\n\nTodd's speaking engagements during 1978 and 1979 generated controversy and sometimes hysteria at the churches he spoke at. Frequently, there were claims by Todd of gunshots in the parking lot or attacks on his life after the services, but there were no witnesses to confirm his claims. Several Christian organizations and publications investigated Todd's claims and published articles disputing them. These included \"Cornerstone\" magazine, the Christian Research Institute, \"Christianity Today\" magazine, and the book \"The Todd Phenomenon\" by Darryl E. Hicks.\n\nTodd was not the only speaker making the rounds in evangelical Christian circles in the 1970s warning young people against the occult. Todd's claims of being a Satanic high priest before his conversion were similar to claims by Hershel Smith and Mike Warnke. In one meeting between Todd and Warnke, the two had a backstage confrontation and Todd accused Warnke of stealing his testimony regarding the Illuminati.\n\nTodd has appeared in several of Jack Chick's publications. Chick first promoted Todd's message in comic form in \"The Broken Cross\", a comic that portrays a town controlled by organized Satanists, who ignore ritual murders and teach witchcraft to children in school. In another Chick comic book, \"Spellbound?\", a character called \"Lance Collins\" describes himself as a former druid and member of the Illuminati. The character claims that Satanists control the rock music industry and are infiltrating churches, and urges Christians to burn their rock music records, Ouija boards and \"Dungeons & Dragons\" game sets. Both comics offer \"deepest appreciation to John Todd, ex-grand Druid priest\".\n\nTodd's stories about the Illuminati were published as the comic book \"The Illuminati and Witchcraft\" in 1980 by Jacob Sailor. His claims partially became the basis for a different book, \"Witchcraft and the Illuminati\", published in 1981 by The Covenant, The Sword, and the Arm of the Lord, a Christian Identity group, and reprinted in 1999 by the Christian Patriot Association. This book repeated many of Todd's claims, including the alleged power structure of the Illuminati and the idea that \"Atlas Shrugged\" was the Illuminati's secret blueprint, but added Identity beliefs derogatory toward Jews and African-Americans.\n\nAfter Todd's veracity was questioned and investigated, Chick continued to defend him and publish tracts based on Todd's life. Author Cynthia Burack wrote that Chick often made \"excuses for behaviours that were inconsistent with Todd's status as a high-profile Christian convert,\" and that his \"propensities to indulge in conspiracy theory and to lash out at putative allies who question his conclusions\" in his defense of Todd and other controversial figures (namely Alberto Rivera and Rebecca Brown) resulted in a split between himself and the conservative Christian movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "22470049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22470049", "title": "King Richard's Faire", "text": "King Richard's Faire\n\nKing Richard’s Faire is a Renaissance Faire held in Carver, Massachusetts, which recreates a 16th-century marketplace, including handmade crafts, foods, musicians, singers, dancers, minstrels, mimes, jugglers, whip artists, magicians, comedians, puppeteers, gymnasts, exotic animals, acrobats, mud beggars, stilt walkers, knights jousting on horseback, a royal court, and the fictional King Richard. King Richard’s Faire is the longest-running Renaissance Faire in New England. \n\nThe Faire was founded in 1982 by the late Richard Shapiro and his wife Bonnie, who ran the original \"King Richard's Faire\" in Bristol, Wisconsin (which was renamed Bristol Faire when the Shapiros sold it to Renaissance Entertainment Corporation in 1988). Today, Bonnie and her daughter Aimée Shapiro Sedley produce the show. King Richard’s Faire is the largest and longest-running Renaissance Faire in New England.\n\nKing Richard's Faire is operated on of pine forest and has 8 stages plus a tournament field for live jousting. The buildings are permanent year-round structures. King Richard’s Faire runs for eight consecutive weekends from the first weekend in September through the third weekend in October (including Labor Day and Columbus Day), closing for bad weather.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57905123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57905123", "title": "Kirsty Bentley", "text": "Kirsty Bentley\n\nKirsty Marianne Bentley was a teenager living in Ashburton, New Zealand, who went missing while walking her family dog on the afternoon of 31 December 1998. After an extensive search lasting several weeks, her body was found in dense scrub approximately 40 km away. Police consider the case to be a homicide, and it remains one of the highest-profile unsolved murders in New Zealand.\n\nKirsty Marianne Bentley was born on 18 January 1983 at the Christchurch Women's Hospital. She was the second child of her parents, Jill and Sidney Bentley; she had an older brother John.\n\nBentley was by all accounts a normal teenager. Her mother has described her as vibrant, honest and compassionate. She was confident and direct with people she knew, but could be shy and reserved with those she did not. Bentley had a strong creative streak that she expressed through drama classes and poetry. She attended Ashburton College, and at school she was well liked and had a close-knit friend group. She had recently begun dating a local boy from one of her classes.\n\nOn the day of her disappearance, Bentley met a friend at the Ashburton library at around 10:30am on 31 December 1998. After doing some shopping, they had lunch at McDonald's around midday. Bentley was dropped off at her home by her friend's sister at around 2:30pm.\n\nAfter returning home, her brother John told her that her boyfriend had called and left a message, asking her to call him back. Phone records show she made a call to her boyfriend at 2:38pm, but he wasn't there so she left a message asking him to call her back.\n\nFrom here, it appears Bentley decided to take the family's black Labrador dog, Abby, for a walk. This was not unusual for Bentley; she often took the dog for a walk to pass the time. John did not hear her leaving the house. A neighbour witnessed her walking by his house with the dog at 3:05pm, but from this point on the exact timeline of what happened to her cannot be clearly established.\n\nBentley's boyfriend called back at 4:30pm, and at this time John noticed his sister was still absent. When his mother, Jill, returned home from work at around 5:15pm, he immediately told her Bentley had not come home. After calling Bentley's boyfriend to confirm he did not know where Kirsty was, Jill conducted the first search, by walking the route Bentley would normally take down to the Ashburton River. However, she was becoming increasingly anxious and soon decided to turn back.\n\nAfter returning to the house, she and John agreed to wait until 6pm before conducting another search, in case Kirsty came home of her own accord. John left to search the dog walking route just before 6pm, and shortly afterwards Kirsty's father, Sid, returned home. When he was told Kirsty was missing, he immediately notified police.\n\nAfter Police became involved the search rapidly grew more intense throughout the evening, with a mixture of police staff, family members and friends canvassing the area looking for Bentley. This first search continued through the entire night. Nothing was found.\n\nThe official Search and Rescue operation began at 8am the next day. At around 10am, the family dog, Abby, was found tied to a tree in a patch of dense foliage beside the Ashburton River, close to Robilliard Park. The general area had been searched the previous night, but the dog had not been found; the dense foliage means it is possible she was missed during this search. The dog was found tied to a tree with a lead of the same type that the family owned, however the family initially believed the lead did not belong to them.\n\nNearby two items of clothing, underwear and boxer shorts, were found. These were later confirmed to belong to Bentley.\n\nOver the next 16 days, police and volunteers meticulously searched the Ashburton area of Canterbury. Initially the search was focused on the Ashburton township but it expanded out to cover a much larger area of Canterbury. The New Zealand Army sent troops from Burnham Military Camp to help in the effort also.\n\nOn 17 January, two men in the Camp Gully area of Rakaia, roughly 40 km away from Ashburton, found a badly decomposed human body lying in a patch of overgrown scrub and planted pine. The body was later confirmed to be Bentley's.\n\nThe body was lying at the bottom of a steep embankment, covered in a thin layer of branches and leaves. She had been placed in the fetal position and was fully clothed in what she had last been seen wearing, with the exception of the underwear that had previously been found at the scene of her disappearance. A large paddock was at the top of an embankment above her, and the location was close to State Highway 72, part of the Inland Scenic Route.\n\nThe area she was found is known for being used by illegal cannabis growers, and the men who found her were out looking for a cannabis patch. Initially they were reluctant to contact police, but decided the discovery was too important not to report.\n\nAfter the discovery, Police closed the scene and ordered a no-fly zone over the area as they conducted their investigation. They conducted an extensive scene examination over several days, and took plaster casts of tire tracks in the area.\n\nIt was the height of summer, and so Bentley's body was in an advanced state of decomposition. She was recovered and transported to Christchurch Hospital where a post-mortem was conducted. It took three days before dental records were used to formally identify the body.\n\nBentley was killed by blunt force trauma to the right-side of the back of her head. The blow or blows was inflicted with enough force to severely fracture her skull. The pathologist determined she would have died shortly after the wound was inflicted. Police initially withheld her cause of death from the public for operational reasons. The pathologist believed she was killed soon after she went missing, and likely placed in the Camp Gully area the same night, based on an examination of her stomach contents and the state of her body.\n\nPolice asked for help from the public regarding vehicles that may have been seen in the area at the time. They also asked for cannabis growers to come forward if they had seen anything. These calls to the public did not reveal anything useful.\n\nA funeral for Bentley was held at St Stephen's Anglican Church in Ashburton on 25 January 1999. Between 500 and 700 people attended. Bentley's body was cremated, and her ashes sealed in a steel urn. The urn was buried in a specially planted memorial garden at the family home. After Sid's death in 2015, the ashes were transferred to Bentley's mother, Jill.\n\nMedia coverage of the case was extensive, making it one of the most high-profile unsolved crimes in New Zealand history. At the time, all major news outlets in New Zealand closely followed the case. The intensity of the coverage was both a help and a hindrance to the investigation. For instance, the men who found her body cited seeing Bentley's mother on evening news television broadcasts as the reason they had decided to come forward, despite the fact they were engaged in an illegal activity when they found her.\n\nHowever, the relationship between the media and the police and family would also be strained at times. Decisions by media to publish reports that Bentley's body had been discovered before she had been formally identified were publicly criticised by police. In addition, the family expressed distress at the pressure they received from media during the several days that Bentley's body remained formally unidentified.\n\nPolice have stated that hundreds of individuals have been considered suspects at one time or another, and a list of several hundred people have never been formally eliminated from the enquiry. At times the list of suspects has been as small as 20 people. Some possible suspects have received media attention in relation to the case.\n\nAt an early stage in the case, media reported that Sid and John were considered suspects in Kirsty's disappearance. Both denied any involvement, although John acknowledged in media interviews that it was only common sense that police should consider them as suspects. Police later confirmed that they were considered suspects in the investigation.\n\nPolice conducted a scene examination at the family home in the early stages of the investigation, including carrying out Luminol testing. However the tests did not find anything of value to the investigation.\n\nSid was unable to provide a strong alibi for his whereabouts on that day. He initially claimed he had been in Christchurch and Lyttelton at the time, but later claimed he had hit his head on a cupboard door and forgotten that he had actually been in Ashburton for part of the day. His exact whereabouts at the time remain unknown. Family members have stated they believe Sid was embarrassed to admit whatever it was that he was doing on that day, but they do not believe he was involved in the murder in any way.\n\nPolice later consulted retired British Detective Inspector Chuck Burton, who stated that in his opinion, the perpetrator was likely to have known Bentley and been close with her, based on the nature of the crime and the way her body was left at Camp Gully.\n\nDespite this, police never laid charges against either Sid or John, suggesting no strong evidence of their involvement was ever found. In 2018, Police confirmed they do not believe Sid or John were involved in the crime.\n\nIn the months after Bentley's death, Police asked the public for information about a green Commer van, registration number EP9888, that was of interest to the inquiry. The van was described as a 1961 model set up to be used as a camper, with a distinctive Commer branding badge attached to the front. The van was either blue or a faded blue-green. It was last registered with the NZTA in 1995. This type of van was commonly used by tourists and drifters at the time, and in many cases these vehicles were not registered. The van was rare; as few as 2 matching its general description are believed to have ever been in New Zealand.\n\nAn experienced mechanic originally reported the van to police after seeing it in the area around the time of Bentley's disappearance. Due to the distinctive nature of the van and the man's experience with them, he took special note of the van at the time and was able to give a highly detailed description of it. The van was also seen by other witnesses in the Ashburton area in the weeks before Bentley's disappearance, and there were reports it was also seen in the Camp Gully area.\n\nPolice believed that such a distinctive vehicle could not go unnoticed by the public, and a sighting could lead to a break in the case. Many people came forward to police with possible sightings, but all were discounted as not being the van that police were seeking; the distinctive nature of the van made it very easy for them to rule out mistaken sightings. No further leads on the camper were ever revealed, and it has never been found.\n\nIn addition to this, police distributed fliers asking for information on a girl seen near the van on Chalmers Avenue, close to where Bentley had disappeared. The girl was known to the dairy owners in the suburb of Netherby as a customer. However, despite this, and repeated public requests by police, the girl never came forward. Her identity and her connection to the suspicious van remains unknown.\n\nIn March 2017 media reported that police were investigating whether Russell John Tully, a local man who murdered two staff members at the Ashburton Work and Income office in 2014, may have been involved. Tully had been known to camp in the area of Ashburton Kirsty went missing from. Tully strongly denied any involvement.\n\nIn May 2018 Police announced they had eliminated Tully from the enquiry. He had provided a detailed account of where he had been living and working during the time Bentley disappeared. Police confirmed he had not originally been interviewed because he was living in Nelson at the time, and was no longer suspected of any involvement.\n\nAfter Sid's death in 2015, an unidentified woman came forward to say that she suspected her ex-boyfriend had been involved in the murder. He had been a suspect in the original investigation, and they had both been interviewed by police and media at the time in relation to the case. According to an interview with her in 2015, her ex-boyfriend, while intoxicated, had admitted his involvement to her on several occasions. It is unclear whether she ever came forward to formally change her statement to police.\n\nIn 2014 the case was transferred from Detective Inspector Greg Williams to Detective Inspector Greg Murton. At the time he commented that the investigation was open and would continue to be until it was resolved.\n\nIn 2015 Bentley's father, Sid, died of esophageal cancer. His death briefly renewed public interest in the case.\n\nIn 2018, Police confirmed that Russell John Tully was no longer of interest to the enquiry.\n\nIn late 2018, almost 20 years after the disappearance, Detective Inspector Murton announced that there had been advances in DNA testing that he hoped could lead to a break in the case. Items of evidence including the dog lead and underwear have been submitted for further testing at Environmental Science and Research.\n\nThe case is still under active investigation, with Detective Inspector Murton stating in 2018 that, \"the case is still open and being investigated.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "389419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=389419", "title": "Li'l Abner (musical)", "text": "Li'l Abner (musical)\n\nLi'l Abner is a musical with a book by Norman Panama and Melvin Frank, music by Gene De Paul, and lyrics by Johnny Mercer. Based on the comic strip \"Li'l Abner\" by Al Capp, the show is, on the surface, a broad spoof of hillbillies, but it is also a pointed satire on other topics, ranging from American politics and incompetence in the United States federal government to propriety and gender roles.\n\nAfter several other writers and composers considered musicalizing the comic strip, Al Capp finally made a deal in 1955 with the eventual creators for a musical to be financed by Paramount Pictures, which wanted to follow the stage version with a film musical. The Broadway production opened on November 15, 1956 and ran for a moderately successful 693 performances. The score and Michael Kidd's choreography received critical praise, but some critics felt that the book's adaptation lost the spirit of the comic strip. Kidd and Edie Adams, as Daisy Mae, won Tony Awards, while newcomer Peter Palmer, in the title role, won a Theatre World Award. Paramount released a film version with the same title in 1959, with most of the Broadway cast reprising their roles.\n\nA musical version of the popular comic strip \"Li'l Abner\" was first planned in 1946, with the book to be written by the comic strip's author, Al Capp. Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II were named as potential producers, though reports did not state whether they intended to write the score. However, this version never materialized, and over the next several years, various authors and composers sought to musicalize \"Li'l Abner\", including writers Arnold Horwitt and Josh Logan. In 1953, Arthur Schwartz and Alan Jay Lerner obtained the rights to the show from Al Capp; the three were to co-produce the show, with Schwartz writing the music and Lerner writing the book and lyrics for an opening during the 1954–55 season. The familiar comic strip characters were to be retained but Li'l Abner and his longtime sweetheart Daisy Mae would not yet be married in the musical. Hollywood star Van Johnson expressed interest in the title role, saying he would dye his hair black to match the comic strip character; he had not appeared on Broadway since the 1940 production of \"Pal Joey\". The Schwartz–Lerner version also fell through, but by the next year Lerner and composer Burton Lane planned to write the musical. Herman Levin would serve as producer, and rehearsals were scheduled to begin in November 1954. However, later that year, Levin announced a musical version of George Bernard Shaw's \"Pygmalion\", by Lerner and Loewe. Although work was supposed to continue on the Lane–Lerner \"Li'l Abner\", this version never appeared, and \"My Fair Lady\", Lerner and Loewe's adaptation of \"Pygmalion\", opened in 1956, becoming the hit musical of the decade.\n\nIn 1955, Norman Panama and Melvin Frank announced a \"Li'l Abner\" musical to open on Broadway in 1956, followed by a film of the musical. The music was to be written by Gene de Paul with lyrics by Johnny Mercer. De Paul and Mercer had previously written the score for the popular movie musical, \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\". Michael Kidd, who had choreographed \"Seven Brides for Seven Brothers\", was to direct and choreograph \"Li'l Abner\". Al Capp approved the production and was to receive a share of any profits. Paramount Pictures was the sole backer of the musical and also paid $300,000 for its film rights, with Panama and Frank slated to adapt, direct, and produce the film version.\n\nThe producers conducted a long search for the actor to play the title role: over 400 actors auditioned for the part, and at one time, Dick Shawn was reported to be their preferred choice. However, the producers eventually chose unknown singer Peter Palmer, who had been serving in an army entertainment unit; Panama and Frank saw him perform on a segment of \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" featuring talented American soldiers. Palmer was a trained singer with a music degree from the University of Illinois, where he had also played football; at 6'4\" and 228 pounds, Palmer had the right \"look\" to play Li'l Abner. The leading female role, Daisy Mae, was relatively easier to cast. The producers knew that they wanted soprano Edie Adams, who had given a star-making performance as Eileen in the 1953 musical \"Wonderful Town\". Adams, however, had also been offered the lead role in the original production of \"Candide\". Adams asked director George Abbott, who had directed her in \"Wonderful Town\", which show she should choose, and he advised her to take Daisy Mae, which she subsequently did. Coincidentally, Al Capp had been one of the three judges for the \"Miss U.S. Television\" contest broadcast on the DuMont Television Network in 1950 that first brought Adams national attention.\n\n\"It's a Typical Day\" as the citizens of Dogpatch, U.S.A. go about their daily activities. As usual, sweet, curvaceous Daisy Mae Scragg is pursuing Li'l Abner Yokum who, despite being a strapping, handsome young man, isn't interested in girls or employment. Abner's domineering, diminutive Mammy sends Daisy Mae to tell Abner to come to the Cornpone Meetin' in the town square. At the fishing hole with his friends, Abner lazily reflects that if he could be anyone in the world, he'd rather be himself (\"If I had my Druthers\"). Daisy Mae tells the young men about the meeting, and they rush into town. Daisy is frustrated because Abner has failed to take any romantic interest in her (\"If I Had My Druthers\" (reprise)).\n\nThe townspeople assemble for the Cornpone Meetin', where parson Marryin' Sam leads a celebration of Dogpatch's founder, \"Jubilation T. Cornpone\", a bumbling Confederate general whose leadership was more beneficial to the North than to the South. Senator Fogbound, Dogpatch's U.S. congressman, tells the citizens that Congress has declared Dogpatch the most unnecessary town in the U.S., and so it must be evacuated to be used as a nuclear bomb test site. Everyone is thrilled that Dogpatch has been picked out of the entire U.S. (\"Rag Offen the Bush\"). But Earthquake McGoon reminds them that if they leave Dogpatch, the annual Sadie Hawkins Day race won't take place: in Dogpatch, the only way anyone can be married is if a young woman catches a boy on Sadie Hawkins Day. Daisy Mae's unscrupulous, filthy relatives, the Scraggs, give Earthquake permission to marry Daisy Mae (mostly due to the $1 bribe he gives them). The townspeople decide to save Dogpatch and Sadie Hawkins Day by proving there is something necessary in the town. Daisy Mae asks Abner if he will let her catch him on Sadie Hawkins Day and tries to persuade him that he deserves to marry a girl like her, and Abner agrees that she should marry a boy like him (\"Namely You\"). The townspeople lament that their beloved home has been declared an \"Unnecessary Town\".\nIt turns out that Mammy Yokum's Yokumberry Tonic, which she makes from the one-of-a-kind Yokumberry tree growing outside her home, is what has made Abner so strong and handsome. When a short, pudgy government scientist is given a spoonful, he turns into a tall, muscular man. Abner agrees to go to Washington, accompanied by Marryin' Sam, to present the government with the tonic for testing on the scrawny men of Dogpatch. There, greedy, tyrannical General Bullmoose wants to buy the formula for Yokumberry Tonic, and he is angry that Li'l Abner intends to turn the formula over to the government for free (\"What's Good for General Bullmoose\"). He hatches a dastardly scheme in which his girlfriend, femme fatale Appassionata Von Climax, will catch Abner on Sadie Hawkins Day. Once they're married, Bullmoose will kill Abner, and the formula will belong to his widow, Appassionata.\n\nAbner and Marryin' Sam return to Dogpatch with the happy news that \"The Country's In the Very Best of Hands\". On Sadie Hawkins Day, General Bullmoose and Appassionata arrive in Dogpatch. They hire Evil Eye Fleagle to help Appasionata catch Abner. The race begins, and the young women of Dogpatch pursue the young men (\"Sadie Hawkins Day\" ballet). Though Daisy Mae, with the help of Stupefyin' Jones (any man who looks at her freezes), almost succeeds in catching Abner, Evil Eye Fleagle uses his evil eye to freeze everyone in the race, and Appasionata calmly walks up to Abner and claims him as hers.\n\nIn Washington, the scientists testing Yokumberry Tonic dream of a time when life will be totally controlled by science (\"Oh Happy Day\"). In Dogpatch, Daisy Mae concludes that the reason she couldn't win Abner is that she, at age seventeen, is too old and no longer beautiful, and Marryin' Sam joins her lament (\"I'm Past My Prime\"). Mammy Yokum has a vision in which she sees Bullmoose and Apassionata's plot to kill Li'l Abner. Daisy Mae asks Earthquake McGoon to go to Washington, D.C. to save Li'l Abner, promising to marry him if he does.\n\nIn Washington, an engagement party is being held for Li'l Abner and Apassionata. General Bullmoose has Evil Eye Fleagle on hand; since Fleagle's evil eye can require him to do anything requested, Apassionata won't even have to marry Abner to get the formula. The General is planning to simply have Fleagle use his eye on Abner, get the formula for Yokumberry Tonic, and then order Abner to commit suicide. Mammy and Pappy Yokum, Earthquake, Daisy Mae, and the ladies of Dogpatch all show up to sabotage the party. When Fleagle tries to use his evil eye on Abner, Earthquake holds up a mirrored serving tray to protect himself, and the beam from Fleagle's eye bounces off the tray and rebounds onto General Bullmoose. Mammy Yokum questions the General, and he reveals the entire plot. The police arrest him and Apassionata.\n\nThe women of Dogpatch go to the laboratory to see the results of Yokumberry Tonic. Their scrawny husbands have been transformed into handsome men, but they have no interest in their wives. The scientists explain that this is an unfortunate side effect of the tonic; since it kills a man's romantic interests, it is of no use to the government. The women beg for the scientists to \"Put 'Em Back\" the way they were before they took the tonic. Daisy tells Abner that she's promised to marry Earthquake since he came to Washington and saved Abner, but she'd rather marry Abner (\"Namely You\" (reprise)). Softspoken Pappy Yokum tells Abner that he has a secret potion which will make Abner want to marry Daisy Mae. Abner agrees to take it once they get back to Dogpatch.\n\nBack in Dogpatch, Marryin' Sam is officiating at Daisy Mae and Earthquake's wedding. Before the wedding, Daisy introduces her filthy relatives to Earthquake, saying that they'll be coming to live with them once they are married. Marryin' Sam begins the ceremony by warning Earthquake of the potential consequences of marriage (\"The Matrimonial Stomp\"). Abner and Pappy interrupt the ceremony, and Abner takes the potion (Pappy whispers to Mammy that it's really just water) and declares that he wants to marry Daisy Mae. Earthquake now happily relinquishes Daisy Mae to Abner. Men from the government arrive, warning that the atomic bombs will arrive soon. As the townspeople try to move the town's statue of Jubilation T. Cornpone, a plaque bearing a declaration by Abraham Lincoln is revealed: because Cornpone's military blunders almost single-handedly allowed the North to win the Civil War, Dogpatch is designated a national shrine. The atomic bombs are cancelled, the scrawny men of Dogpatch return home to their happy wives, and the citizens of Dogpatch honor Jubilation T. Cornpone as Abner kisses Daisy Mae (Finale).\n\n \n†Added After The Show Opened\n\nThe Broadway production, directed and choreographed by Michael Kidd and orchestrated by Philip J. Lang, opened on November 15, 1956 at the St. James Theatre where it ran for 693 performances. The original Broadway cast starred Peter Palmer in the title role and Edie Adams (billed as Edith Adams) as Daisy Mae. The cast included Howard St. John as General Bullmoose, Stubby Kaye as Marryin' Sam, Tina Louise as Appassionata von Climax, Julie Newmar as Stupefyin' Jones, Charlotte Rae as Mammy Yokum, Joe E. Marks as Pappy Yokum, Carmen Alvarez as Moonbeam McSwine, Ted Thurston as Senator Jack S. Phogbound, Bern Hoffman as Earthquake McGoon, and Tony Mordente as Lonesome Polecat. Jeanette Scovotti played in the ensemble. Alvin Colt designed the costumes, for which he was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Costume Design. The wardrobe is on display at the Costume World Broadway Collection in Pompano Beach, Florida.\n\nIn 1998, \"Li'l Abner\" was presented in concert as part of the New York City Center's \"Encores!\" series.\n\nGoodspeed Musicals in East Haddam, Connecticut, presented the musical from April 21 to July 2, 2006. The production was updated to contemporary times and included references to Martha Stewart, Donald Trump, and Al Sharpton, among others, and the actor who played General Bullmoose was a Dick Cheney (at the time the U.S. Vice President) look-alike.\n\n\"Reprise! Broadway's Best\" produced the musical in Los Angeles in February 2008.\n\nA film based on the stage musical was made by Paramount and released in 1959, with most of the Broadway cast reprising their roles. The film was shot to resemble a stage set, with the buildings and surroundings in two-dimensions, giving the sense of a \"proscenium dividing audience and performer\".\n\nA TV adaption was produced in 1971 starring Ray Young as Li'l Abner, Nancee Parkinson as Daisy Mae, and Billie Hayes as Mammy Yokum.\n\nThe 1956 original Broadway production opened to great praise for Michael Kidd's choreography, and the score was generally well received. However, some critics thought that the creators of the musical had not effectively translated the original comic strip to the stage, and there was some critical disagreement about whether the satirical elements were effective. In the \"New York Herald Tribune\", for example, Walter Kerr praised Kidd's direction and choreography, saying that Kidd \"knows how to set fists and feet pounding against the floor. ... Every time he does it the air sizzles and crackles\". He also praised the score, stating, \"Every time ... the orchestra strikes up for one of Johnny Mercer's and Gene de Paul's salutes to comic-strip fury, the beat is driving, the voices are clamoring. ... It's all done with zip and zingo\". John Chapman of the \"Daily News\" found \"Li'l Abner\" very enjoyable, stating, \"I decided I was going to like it all very much soon after the curtain rose and this fetching little Edith Adams sidled up to this big hunk, Peter Palmer, and said, shyly, 'Abner, I brought you some worms.' There is a cast which is as remarkable for its ability to entertain as for its picturesqueness\". He praised the satirical lyrics, stating, \"Johnny Mercer's lyrics bring to mind the salty and saucy days of Lorenz Hart and Ira Gershwin [as they] jab at our personal and national foibles\".\n\nBrooks Atkinson of \"The New York Times\" lauded Michael Kidd's choreography, stating, \"If everyone in \"Li'l Abner\" were as talented as Michael Kidd, everything would be as brilliant as the ballets, and probably the world would be gayer, too. But it is difficult to make a fluent musical romance out of some characters who may have hearts of gold but are not very bright in the upper story\". Atkinson thought the book of the musical was inferior to the choreography, stating that the book did \"not have the lightness, simplicity, and speed of the Dogpatch folks. ... Mr. Kidd has caught the spirit of Dogpatch civilization brilliantly enough to suggest that ballet is a more suitable medium than words for animating Al Capp's cartoon drawings\".\n\nTom Donnelly of the \"New York World-Telegram & Sun\" thought that the production had not retained the spirit of the comic strip, stating, \"Those aren't real Dogpatch people stompin' and whompin' and cavortin' across that stage. Those are (sob!) Broadway actors done up in funny looking costumes\". He also thought that too much of the libretto was spent explaining the Dogpatch milieu, which Donnelly assumed would be familiar to most audience members since \"Li'l Abner\" was at that time a very popular comic strip. Conversely, John McClain of the \"New York Journal American\" thought the show would have been incomprehensible to anyone not already familiar with the comic strip. McClain also thought the show's political satire was of \"questionable taste\", asserting, \"it's poor timing to feature a song about 'The Country's in the Very Best of Hands', which attempts to show it isn't, and to haul out and shove all over the stage that dreary caricature of a relentless millionaire\". However, McClain still concluded, \"it is sure to be a great big hit. \"Li'l Abner\" is bountiful, lively, and tuneful\".\n\nIn his review of the 1998 \"Encores!\" production, Anthony Tommasini of \"The New York Times\" praised the production, calling it a \"stylish revisiting\", saying, \"everything we have come to expect of [the \"Encores!\" series] is in evidence here: a fresh faced, multitalented cast; imaginative staging from the director, Christopher Ashley; careful attention ... to recreating the original orchestrations; stylish playing from the band, and wonderfully kinetic choreography\". However, Tommasini thought the show itself was flawed, pronouncing the book \"dated-on-arrival\" and saying, \"Even in 1956 it must have been hard to find much satirical humor in [the plot]. Today it's downright creepy\". He conceded that \"the Mercer–De Paul has some tuneful gems\" but opined that \"Mercer's witty lyrics create a paradox for the actors: characters who sing clever lyrics inevitably sound clever. ... So the score undermines the dimwitted characterizations\". Irv Lichtman of \"Billboard\" favorably reviewed both the production and the show itself, saying the performance exemplified Encores' \"utterly delightful, right-on-the-mark performances\". He wrote, \"The successful but largely forgotten 1956 musical \"Li'l Abner\" is certainly not a dud, for it has good-natured energy and a bright and tuneful score by Gene DePaul and Johnny Mercer ... the show serves well as one of those solid \"knockabout\" shows Broadway turned out with regularity through the '50s\". He praised the \"playful zest\" of the characterizations and \"fine re-creations of the original choreography\".\n\nIn \"The New York Times\" review of the 2006 Goodspeed production, Anita Gates generally approved of the new topical references added to the show, noting that \"Scott Schwartz's colorful new production at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam has updated some of the political references, but the show's message – typified by the gullible Dogpatchers' song \"The Country's in the Very Best of Hands\" – remains the same\". Gates stated that \"the musical is cartoonish by definition and hardly one of Broadway's great treasures, but the show grows on you\", opining that \"most of the Johnny Mercer–Gene de Paul songs are forgettable, but \"Namely Me\" ... stands out\". Frank Rizzo of \"Variety\" was more critical of the production, declaring, \"even cartoon characters with a diminishing fan base should be shown some respect. This production, helmed with ever-increasing doses of exaggeration by Scott Schwartz, pushes the idiot quotient to new levels and overwhelms the piece's playful political commentary\". He praised the show itself, asserting that it contained \"many Mercer–de Paul gems in a tuneful, bright score\". Rizzo stated that updating \"Li'l Abner\" was \"not a bad idea, given that there are perennial themes ... that fit into today's social zeitgeist\", but he thought that the updates had not been applied consistently, as the show had retained many 1950s references.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49245277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49245277", "title": "List of environmental film festivals", "text": "List of environmental film festivals\n\nMany environmental film festivals present complete programs of films dedicated to environmental subjects on a regular basis, typically annually. Others are committed to presenting environmental films within their subprograms. The festivals listed below solicit and present films about nature, ecology, conservation, wildlife, pollution, habitat loss, climate change and related topics. Some of the festivals listed here are also members of the Green Film Network. This list is not exhaustive.\n"}
{"id": "41883945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41883945", "title": "Lost Episode Festival Toronto", "text": "Lost Episode Festival Toronto\n\nLost Episode Festival Toronto (also known as LEFT) is a publicly attended film festival showcasing horror, sci-fi, action, television, cult cinema, and indie film held annually in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The festival screens a variety of feature-length and short-films as well as parody commercials and movie trailers from around the world including North America, Australia, and Europe. The festival also hosts the 50 Hour Film Competition - a time based film challenge where filmmakers are given just over two days to create a short film from concept to completion using a provided genre, prop, line of dialogue, and character.\n\nLEFT 2013 showcased 14 films, 1 feature film presentation and 13 short films. Notable films screened at the festival included BioCop by cult producers Astron-6, Channel 101 series Karate P.I., and the exclusive Canadian theatrical premiere of \"Star Trek Continues\". The inaugural festival was held June 1–2, 2013, at the Bloor Cinema in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nLEFT 2014 showcased 9 films, 2 feature film presentations, and 7 short films. Notable films screened at the festival included the exclusive Canadian premieres of the films ANNA (aka \"MINDSCAPE\"), \"\", and NAKED ZOMBIE GIRL. The 2nd annual festival was held July 5–6, 2014 at the Bloor Cinema in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nLEFT 2015 showcased 28 films, 10 feature film presentations, and 18 short films. Notable films screened at the festival included the Canadian premiere of Inner Demon, \"Blood Punch\", Lost After Dark, The Shells, and \"The House on Pine Street\"; Toronto premiere of Some Kind of Hate, Slumlord, and \"Bunny the Killer Thing\". The 3rd annual festival was held August 7–9, 2015 at the Carlton Cinema in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nLEFT 2016 showcased 50 films, 10 feature film presentations, and 40 short films. Notable films screened at the festival included the Canadian premiere of Daylight's End, This Giant Papier Mache Boulder Is Actually Really Heavy, Vampyres, Sun Choke, Dry Blood, and Cord; Toronto premiere of \"Under the Shadow\", The Barn, The Greasy Strangler, and Bad Blood - The Movie. The 4th annual festival was held August 5–7, 2016 at the Carlton Cinema in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nLEFT 2017 showcased 51 films, 10 feature film presentations, and 41 short films. Notable films screened at the festival included the Canadian theatrical premiere of \"Cherry 2000\" and El ataúd de cristal (The Glass Coffin), and the Toronto premieres of \"68 Kill\", Sequence Break, Replace, Dead Shack, It Stains The Sands Red, and Ron Goossens Low Budget Stuntman. The 5th annual festival was held August 10–13, 2017 at the Carlton Cinema in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46804604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46804604", "title": "Lunar IceCube", "text": "Lunar IceCube\n\nLunar IceCube is a planned NASA nanosatellite mission to prospect, locate, and estimate size and composition of water ice deposits on the Moon for future exploitation by robots or humans. It will fly as a secondary payload mission on the first flight of the Space Launch System, Exploration Mission 1 (EM-1) scheduled to launch in 2020.\n\nThe lunar mission was designed by Morehead State University and its partners, the Busek Company, NASA Goddard Spaceflight Center, and The Catholic University of America (CUA). It was selected in April 2015 by NASA's NextSTEP program ('Next Space Technologies for Exploration Partnerships') and awarded a contract worth up to $7.9 million for further development.\n\nThe Lunar IceCube spacecraft will have a 6U CubeSat format, and a mass of about ≈. It is one of thirteen CubeSats planned to be carried on board the maiden flight of the SLS EM-1 mission as secondary payloads in cis-lunar space, scheduled for 2020. It will be deployed during lunar trajectory and will use an innovative electric RF ion engine to achieve lunar capture and the science orbit to allow the team to make systematic measurements of lunar water features from an orbit about above the lunar surface. The Principal Investigator is Ben Malphrus, Director of the Space Science Center at Morehead State University.\n\nNASA's Lunar Prospector, Clementine, Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (LCROSS), the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) and India's Chandrayaan-1 lunar orbiters and other missions, confirmed both water (HO) and hydroxyl (—OH) deposits at high latitudes on the lunar surface, indicating the presence of trace amounts of adsorbed or bound water are present, but their instruments weren't optimized for fully or systematically characterizing the elements in the infrared wavelength bands ideal for detecting water. These missions suggest that there might be enough ice water at polar regions to be used by future landed missions, but the distribution is difficult to reconcile with thermal maps.\n\nLunar prospecting missions are intended to pave the way toward incorporating use of space resources into mission architectures. NASA's planning for eventual human missions to Mars depends on tapping the local natural resources to make oxygen and propellant for launching the return ship back to Earth, and a lunar precursor mission is a convenient location to test such in situ resource utilization (ISRU) technology.\n\nThe science goals are to investigate the distribution of water and other volatiles, as a function of time of day, latitude, and lunar soil composition.\n\nLunar IceCube will include a version of the Broadband InfraRed Compact High Resolution Exploration Spectrometer (BIRCHES) instrument, developed by NASA's GSFC. BIRCHES is a compact version of the volatile-seeking spectrometer instrument onbord the \"New Horizons\" Pluto flyby mission.\n\nThe tiny CubeSat spacecraft will make use of a miniature electric RF ion engine system based on Busek's 3 centimeter RF ion thruster, also known as BIT-3. It utilizes a solid iodine propellant and an inductively-coupled plasma system that produces 1.1 mN thrust and 2800 sec specific impulse from approximately 50W total input power. It will also use this engine for capture into lunar orbit, and orbit adjustments. It is estimated the spacecraft will take about 3 months to reach the Moon.\n\nThe flight software is being developed in SPARK/Ada by the Vermont Technical College CubeSat Lab. SPARK/Ada has the lowest error rate of any computer language, important for the reliability and success of this complicated spacecraft. It is used in commercial and military aircraft, air traffic control and high speed trains. This is the second spacecraft using SPARK/Ada, the first being the Basic Low Earth Orbit CubeSat also by the Vermont Tech CubeSat Lab, the only fully successful university CubeSat out of 12 on the NASA ELaNa IV Air Force ORS-3 launch.\n\n"}
{"id": "54811649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54811649", "title": "Mangaung African Cultural Festival", "text": "Mangaung African Cultural Festival\n\nThe Mangaung African Cultural Festival (MACUFE) is an annual showcase of African arts, culture and various sports disciplines that takes place in Bloemfontein, South Africa. It is one of the largest emerging festivals in Africa; it grew from having an audience of 30 000 in 1997 to 140 000 in 2015.\n\nThe festival runs for 10 days beginning on the first week of October each year in the Free State province of South Africa.\n\nMACUFE consists of a main musical festival, an arts and crafts exhibition, theatre productions, a beauty pageant, the Sparta Macufe Cup which is a soccer league at the Free State stadium and performing arts. It also hosts an official corporate village where there are brand specific lounges, each with their own client service personnel.\n\nEven though the unfolding of an arts festival platform after 1994 in the New South Africa was a key development in SA professional theatre, numerous festivals did relatively little to explore and celebrate black South African culture, theatre or productions. Every festival had a small number of black artists taking part in productions, and audiences included a few black theatre-goers, but the participation of the white and Western-oriented producers, as well as audiences, outweighed the contribution from black African and historically put artists and festival-goers at a disadvantage. Apart from some exceptional cases, English and Afrikaans were used almost exclusively on the festival stages.\n\nThe festival was launched in 1997 by the Free State Provincial Government to celebrate the best local and international African artists in various disciplines. At the announcement of the festival in 1997 the general manager of SABC2, Thaninga Msimango, declared that “the concept was initiated because there was no cultural festival that expressed the rich culture of indigenous South Africans.” The Free State MEC for sports, arts and culture, M.W. Molefe, added that “most popular and successful festivals in South Africa are focused on Eurocentric culture, paying scant regard to indigenous African culture\". Officially dubbed an “African cultural festival”, rather than an “arts festival”, the intention was clear: to stage an event that would recognise and celebrate indigenous African cultural heritage, and specifically as a balance to the other arts festivals which were perceived to do little in that regard.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Department of Arts and Culture and the Department of Sports, Arts, Culture and Recreation in Free State are some of the largest sponsors of the festival, spending a surplus of 20 million rand each year. Other sponsors include SA Express, Standard Bank, Vodacom and the National Lotteries Commission.\n\nLesedi FM radio, \"Daily Sun\", \"Sunday Sun\", \"The Sowetan\", \"The New Age\" and The Africas News Network are amongst some of the largest known platforms that cover the festival. The SABC are also amongst the broadcasters at the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "25835197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25835197", "title": "National Newspaper Awards", "text": "National Newspaper Awards\n\nThe National Newspaper Awards () are prizes awarded annually for the best work in Canadian newspapers.\n\nThe awards were first given in 1949 by the Toronto Press Club, which ran the awards until 1989. They are now given by an independent board of governors and administered from the offices of the Canadian Newspaper Association in Toronto.\nThere are currently 21 award categories: Breaking News; Investigations; Presentation; Sports; Business; Politics; Long Feature Writing; Short Feature Writing; Columns; Editorial Writing; Arts and Entertainment; Editorial Cartooning; Project of the Year; Photo Essay/Portfolio ; Spot News Photography; Sports Photography; Feature Photography; International Reporting; Explanatory Journalism; and Local Reporting (for newspapers under 30,000 circulation).\n\nA Journalist of the Year is chosen from the winners (single or duo) by a panel of working journalists. The first Journalist of the Year was editorial cartoonist Bruce MacKinnon in 2015. In 2016, Joanna Slater was the winner. In 2017, Mark MacKinnon was awarded the prize.\n"}
{"id": "22494908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22494908", "title": "Olympic Day Run", "text": "Olympic Day Run\n\nOlympic Day Run is an international Olympic Movement activity promoting mass participation of sports held in June organized by National Olympic Committees (NOCs).\n\nThe International Olympic Committee (IOC) was formally established on 23 June 1894 through the efforts of Pierre de Coubertin promoting competitive sport as a revival of the ancient Olympic Games.\n\nDue to World War II, Olympic Games had not been held in either 1940 or 1944. The city of London rose to host to the Games of the XIV after World War II. In January 1948, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) approved the idea of Olympic Day to commemorate the creation of the IOC on 23 June 1894 in Paris, a sort of “ birthday ” of the Olympic Movement at the 42nd IOC Session in St Moritz, Switzerland. Olympic Day was held for the first time on 23 June with a total of 9 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) hosting ceremonies in their respective countries: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Great Britain, Greece, Portugal, Switzerland, Uruguay and Venezuela.\n\nIn 1987, in an effort to encourage all NOCs to commemorate and celebrate Olympic Day, the IOC Sport for All Commission launched the Olympic Day Run concept with the objective of promoting the practice of participation in sport by men, women and children from all corners of the world and all walks of life, regardless of athletic ability. The first Olympic Day Run was held in 1987, over a distance of 10 km, with 45 participating NOCs. In 2006, there were 161 NOCs promoting Olympic Day Run to their countrymen.\n\nThe Olympic Day Run is usually held during June 17–24 by NOCs, with 1.5 km Olympic Day Fun Run, 5 km, and 10 km running activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "42497305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42497305", "title": "Ostrava Days", "text": "Ostrava Days\n\nOstrava Days is a three-week-long exposition of contemporary classical music that takes place biennially in the city of Ostrava, The Czech Republic. The last season (2013) ran from August 12 to August 31, 2013. The event is considered to be one of the largest of its type in the world. Ostrava Days exposition is organized by the Ostrava Center for New Music (OCNM), an organization founded in 2000 by a Czech composer living in New York Petr Kotík. The institution was established solely for the purpose of organizing Ostrava Days, an event that consists of two parts—a summer institute and festival.\n\nThe mission of the institute as well as of the festival is described by its founder Petr Kotík as follows. Ostrava Days \"give composers, musicians and musicologists an opportunity to work with leading representatives of contemporary music\". It is \"a working and learning environment focused on orchestral composition\".\n\nThe festival strives to achieve originality and dissociation from usual and rather mainstream type of programing often observed in the program brochures of other major festivals of classical music in The Czech Republic. Classics of new music are systematically offered along the side of numerous premieres of new works. Festival programs have included major works by composers such as: Morton Feldman, John Cage, Luigi Nono, Iannis Xenakis, Karlheinz Stockhausen, György Ligeti, Edgard Varese, Galina Ustvolskaya, Christian Wolff, Alvin Lucier, Petr Kotík, Martin Smolka, Phill Niblock, Elliott Sharp, Bernhard Lang, Rebecca Saunders, Philip Glass, Kaija Saariaho.\n\nThe exposition regularly lasts for three weeks in August. Two weeks are devoted to the institute which events are open to official participants only. Over the course of these two weeks the participating composers, musicians and musicologists interact with each other by means of attending a number of lectures, seminars, and presentations. They also compose and practice pieces to be presented during the final week of the forum. The exposition opens to the public during its third week's festival. The festival offers a large number of concerts which program selected compositions by resident students, lecturers, guests, and others. Frank Kuznik, Editor-in-Chief and Culture Editor of \"The Prague Post\", described Ostrava Days in his blog \"Cultured Cleveland\" as a \"gathering of students, players and composers modeled after Darmstadt School\".\n\nAttendance of the institute as well as the festival is international and in the past included artists from Europe, North America, South America, Asia and Australia. Students are chosen based on evaluation of no more than three scores and audio samples submitted to the assembly of lectors for each given year. Approximately 35 students are accepted for a season.\n\nResident orchestras and ensembles of Ostrava Days are Janáček Philharmonic Orchestra (Ostrava), Ostravská Banda (international chamber ensemble), Canticum Ostrava (choir), and Krulik Quartet (string quartet).\n\nThe events of the Ostrava Days exposition take place in multiple venues in the city, including Philharmonic Hall of the City of Ostrava, Janáček Conservatory Ostrava, Multifunctional Auditorium GONG, National Moravian-Silesian Theatre, Coal Mine Michal Hall, St. Wenceslas Church, Parník Club, Gallery of Fine Arts in Ostrava.\n\n"}
{"id": "13647435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13647435", "title": "Paulo Galvão", "text": "Paulo Galvão\n\nPaulo Galvão (born 1967 in Portimão, Algarve, Portugal) is a composer, lutenist, theorbist and guitarist. According to Dan Hill, Galvão has published \"musical forgeries\" for baroque guitar under the name \"Antonio da Costa\". Galvão's works have been performed by Marcello Vitale and Marco Meloni.\n\nPaulo Galvão had his first musical studies at the Escola de Música de Grupo Coral de Lagos. He later studied classical guitar, lute, theorbo, and baroque guitar with Manuel Morais at the National Conservatory in Lisbon. He had further professional studies with Ede Roth, Hopkinson Smith, Jakob Lindberg and Carlo Marchione.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45585389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45585389", "title": "Rey de Reyes (2015)", "text": "Rey de Reyes (2015)\n\nRey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings\") was a professional wrestling event produced by the Lucha Libre AAA World Wide (AAA) promotion, which took place on March 18, 2015 at the Auditorio Benito Juarez arena in Zapopan, Jalisco, Mexico. The show was the 19th event held under the Rey de Reyes name and also the 19th time that the eponymous Rey de Reyes tournament was held. The show was originally scheduled for Sunday March 15, 2015 but due to weather and problems with getting paperwork in order the show was postponed to March 18 instead. The main event marked the first time that Rey Mysterio Jr. wrestled after leaving WWE earlier in 2015. Rey Mysterio Jr. teamed up with Myzteziz to take on the tag team of El Hijo del Perro Aguayo and Pentagón Jr. in the main event of the show. Due to the dates moving the originally scheduled match between El Patrón Alberto and Brian Cage was canceled, replaced with a match between Blue Demon Jr. and Villano IV.\n\nStarting in 1997 and every year since then the Mexican \"Lucha Libre\", or professional wrestling, company Lucha Libre AAA World Wide (AAA, or Triple A) has held a Rey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings') show in the spring. The 1997 version was held in February, while all subsequent Rey de Reyes shows were held in March. As part of their annual Rey de Reyes event AAA holds the eponymious Rey de Reyes tournament to determine that specific year's \"Rey\". Most years the show hosts both the qualifying round and the final match, but on occasion the qualifying matches have been held prior to the event as part of AAA's weekly television shows. The traditional format consists of four preliminary rounds, each a Four-man elimination match with each of the four winners face off in the tournament finals, again under elimination rules. There have been years where AAA has employed a different format to determine a winner. The winner of the Rey de Reyes tournament is given a large ornamental sword to symbolize their victory, but is normally not guaranteed any other rewards for winning the tournament, although some years becoming the Rey de Reyes has earned the winner a match for the AAA Mega Championship. From 1999 through 2009 AAA also held an annual \"Reina de Reinas\" (\"Queen of Queens\") tournament, but later turned that into an actual championship that could be defended at any point during the year, abandoning the annual tournament concept. The 2015 show was the 19th Rey de Reyes show in the series.\n\nThe Rey de Reyes show featured eight professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing, scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches. \n\nThe Rey de Reyes show was originally scheduled to take place on March 15, 2015, at the Plaza de Toros Nuevo Progreso bullfighting arena in Guadalajara, Jalisco, however, when Guadalajara was hit with a rainstorm, AAA postponed the event for 24 hours and moved it indoors to Auditorio Benito Juarez in Zapopan, Jalisco. The following day AAA announced that they were not able to get all permits in time for the show due to it being it being a national holiday, and once again postponed the show to Wednesday March 18 instead. At the same time they announced that the announced match between El Patrón Alberto and Brian Cage had been cancelled. El Patrón Alberto later stated that he was legally obligated to compete in Australia later in the week and thus was not able to work the Wednesday show for AAA. After the March 16 show was postponed most of the wrestlers and AAA staff traveled back to Mexico by bus. During the trip one of the buses crashed into a stalled truck in Zinapécuaro, Michoacán, killing one member of the AAA staff, Irma Osorno, while several other staff members were either taken to a hospital or received medical attention at the scene of the accident. Due to the tragic accident AAA dedicated the entire show to the memory of Irma Osorno.\n"}
{"id": "4740467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740467", "title": "Robert Shulman (serial killer)", "text": "Robert Shulman (serial killer)\n\nRobert Yale Shulman (March 28, 1954 – April 13, 2006) was an American serial killer. Shulman, a postal worker from Hicksville, New York on Long Island, was convicted of murdering five prostitutes between 1991 and 1996, the year when he was arrested.\n\nShulman was ultimately convicted of five murders.\n\nLooking for the murder site, a detective canvassing hotels heard about a man driving a blue Cadillac who cruised the area. Trying to track the man down with this information, women were located who led them, not to a hotel, but to a residence where a blue Cadillac was seen. The registration was obtained, and the car was registered to Shulman's brother. Trying to get information about the sleeping bag in which Bunting was found, detectives learned Sears was the only manufacturer. Sears was contacted to see if the brother had purchased one with a credit card. Sears said the brother had no card, but pointed out that Shulman had a card. This was how police were initially pointed towards Shulman as a possible culprit. Women later identified him as the man cruising in the Cadillac, and cadaver dogs signaled the possibility of dead remains having been present in the Cadillac. Police searched Shulman's work place and found trace evidence matching that found on the body. Shulman was arrested on 6 April 1996. After interrogation, Shulman confessed to the three murders. (Shulman confessed to the earliest two murders at a later date.) A search of his room revealed hundreds of bloodstains scattered over almost every surface.\n\nShulman was sentenced to death in 1999 for the only murder he committed after New York State reinstated the death penalty in 1995. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for his other murders because New York's death penalty law was not in effect at the time he committed them. His sentence was reduced to life in prison after the New York State Court of Appeals invalidated the death penalty in 2004.\n\nHe died 13 April 2006 in Albany, New York of undisclosed causes.\n\nShulman's brother Barry was indicted on charges of hindering prosecution and unlawfully disposing of dead bodies.\n"}
{"id": "497585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497585", "title": "STS-41-D", "text": "STS-41-D\n\nSTS-41-D was the 12th flight of NASA's Space Shuttle program, and the first mission of Space Shuttle \"Discovery\". It was launched from Kennedy Space Center, Florida, on 30 August 1984, and landed at Edwards Air Force Base, California, on 5 September. Three commercial communications satellites were deployed into orbit during the six-day mission, and a number of scientific experiments were conducted.\n\nThe mission was delayed by more than two months from its original planned launch date, having experienced the Space Shuttle program's first launch abort at T-6 seconds on 26 June 1984.\n\nThe launch was originally planned for 25 June 1984, but because of a variety of technical problems, including rollback to the Vehicle Assembly Building to replace a faulty main engine, the launch was delayed by over two months. The 26 June launch attempt marked the first time since Gemini 6A that a manned spacecraft had experienced a shutdown of its engines just prior to launch.\n\nDuring the 26 June launch attempt, there was a launch abort at T-6 seconds, followed by a pad fire about ten minutes later.\n\"NTD we have a RSLS (Redundant Set Launch Sequencer) abort.\"<br>\n\"Break break, break break, GLS shows engine one not shut down.\"<br>\n\"OK, PLT?\"<br>\n\"CSME verify engine one.\"<br>\n\"You want me to shut down engine one?\"<br>\n\"We do not show engine start on one.\"<br>\n\"OTC I can verify shutdown on verify on engine one, we haven't start prepped engine one.\"<br>\n\"All engines shut down I can verify that.\"<br>\n\"We have red lights on engines two and three in the cockpit, not on one.\"<br>\n\"All right, CSME verify engine one safe for APU shutdown.\"<br>\n\"If I can verify that?\"<br>\n\"OTC GPC go for APU shutdown.\"\nMission Specialist Steve Hawley was reported as saying following the abort: \"Gee, I thought we'd be a lot higher at MECO (Main Engine Cut-Off)!\". About ten minutes later, the following was heard on live TV coverage:\n\n\"We have indication two of our fire detectors on the zero level; no response. They're side by side right next to the engine area. The engineer requested that we turn on the heat shield fire water which is what could be seen spraying up in the vicinity of the engine engine bells of \"Discovery\"'s three main engines.\"<br>\nWhile evacuating the shuttle, the crew was doused with water from the pad deluge system, which was activated due to a hydrogen fire on the launch pad caused by the free hydrogen (fuel) that had collected around the engine nozzles following the shutdown and engine anomaly. Because the fire was invisible to humans, had the astronauts used the normal emergency escape procedure across the service arm to the slidewire escape baskets, they would have run into the fire.\n\nChanges to procedures resulting from the abort included more practicing of \"safing\" the orbiter following aborts at various points, the use of the fire suppression system in all pad aborts, and the testing of the slidewire escape system with a real person (Charles F. Bolden, Jr.). It emerged that launch controllers were reluctant to order the crew to evacuate during the STS-41-D abort, as the slidewire had not been ridden by a human.\n\nExamination of telemetry data indicated that the engine malfunction had been caused by a stuck valve that prevented proper flow of LOX into the combustion chamber.\n\nSTS-41-D finally launched on 8:41 am EDT on 30 August after a six-minute, 50-second delay when a private aircraft flew into the restricted airspace near the launch pad. It was the fourth launch attempt for \"Discovery\". Because of the two-month delay, the STS-41-F mission was cancelled (STS-41-E had already been cancelled), and its primary payloads were included on the STS-41-D flight. The combined cargo weighed over , a record for a Space Shuttle payload up to that time.\n\nThe six-person flight crew consisted of Henry W. Hartsfield, Jr., commander, making his second shuttle mission; pilot Michael L. Coats; three mission specialists – Judith A. Resnik, Richard M. Mullane and Steven A. Hawley; and a payload specialist, Charles D. Walker, an employee of McDonnell Douglas. Walker was the first commercially sponsored payload specialist to fly aboard the Space Shuttle. Resnik became the second American woman to fly any NASA space mission, after Sally K. Ride.\n\n\"Discovery\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s primary cargo consisted of three commercial communications satellites: SBS-D for Satellite Business Systems, Telstar 3C for Telesat of Canada, and Syncom IV-2, or Leasat-2, a Hughes-built satellite leased to the US Navy. Leasat-2 was the first large communications satellite designed specifically to be deployed from the Space Shuttle. All three satellites were deployed successfully and became operational.\n\nAnother payload was the OAST-1 solar array, a device wide and high, which folded into a package deep. The array carried a number of different types of experimental solar cells and was extended to its full height several times during the mission. At the time, it was the largest structure ever extended from a manned spacecraft, and it demonstrated the feasibility of large lightweight solar arrays for use on future orbital installations, such as the International Space Station.\n\nThe McDonnell Douglas-sponsored Continuous Flow Electrophoresis System (CFES) experiment, using living cells, was more elaborate than the one flown on previous missions, and payload specialist Walker operated it for more than 100 hours during the flight. A student experiment to study crystal growth in microgravity was also carried out. The highlights of the mission were filmed using an IMAX motion picture camera, and later appeared in the 1985 documentary film \"The Dream is Alive\". Because of an obstruction in the shuttle's external wastewater dumping system, a two-foot \"pee-sicle\" formed during the mission; Hartsfield removed it with the Remote Manipulator System.\n\nThe mission lasted 6 days, 00 hours, 56 minutes, 04 seconds, with landing taking place on Runway 17 at Edwards Air Force Base at 6:37 am PDT on 5 September 1984. During STS-41-D, \"Discovery\" traveled a total of and made 97 orbits. The orbiter was transported back to KSC on 10 September. Ominously, STS-41-D was the first Shuttle mission in which blow-by damage to the SRB O-rings was discovered, with a small amount of soot found beyond the primary O-ring. Following the Challenger tragedy, Morton Thiokol engineer Brian Russell called this finding the first \"big red flag\" on SRB Joint and O-ring safety.\n\nThe 12 stars within the blue field indicate the flight's original numerical designation as STS-12 in the Space Transportation System's mission sequence. A representation of \"Discovery's\" namesake is manifested in a sailing ship, which is linked to the Shuttle (with the OAST solar array in the payload bay) via a red, white, and blue path, signifying its maiden voyage.\n\nNASA began a tradition of playing music to astronauts during the Gemini program, and first used music to wake up a flight crew during Apollo 15. Each track is specially chosen, often by the astronauts' families, and usually has a special meaning to an individual member of the crew, or is applicable to their daily activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8846787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8846787", "title": "Sanibel Symposium", "text": "Sanibel Symposium\n\nThe Sanibel Symposium is an international scientific conference in quantum chemistry, solid-state physics, and quantum biology. It has been organized by the Quantum Theory Project at the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida, United States, every winter since 1960. It was founded by Per-Olov Löwdin who was involved in its organization every year from 1960 to his death in 2000. From 1960 to 1978, the symposium was held on Sanibel Island, but later symposia have been held in Palm Coast and St. Augustine. In 2005, the Symposium moved to St. Simons Island, Georgia, United States. \n\nThe Symposium is noted for its long history and for the breadth of both the participants and the presentations. The 2010 meeting covers \"Forefront theory and computation in quantum chemistry, condensed matter and chemical physics, nanoscience, quantum biochemistry and biophysics\". The Sanibel Symposium is described as a \"highly respected regular conference\" in a history of the Gordon Research Conferences.\n\nThe Sanibel Coefficients, used for example in calculated spin densities, were named after the Symposium where they were widely discussed in the 1960s.\n\nLectures and posters presented at the meeting are often published in the peer-reviewed journal \"International Journal of Quantum Chemistry\" as one or more issues of the journal. Before 1996, papers were published in special supplements of the Journal for Quantum Chemistry and Quantum Biology.\n\n"}
{"id": "5007190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007190", "title": "Smile Jamaica Concert", "text": "Smile Jamaica Concert\n\nThe Smile Jamaica Concert was a concert held on December 5, 1976, at the National Heroes Park, Kingston, Jamaica, performed by Bob Marley & The Wailers. Marley originally agreed to perform one song for the 80,000 people in attendance; however, it turned into a whole 90-minute performance—despite his injuries sustained two days earlier when he had almost been killed by gunmen in his own house. \n\nAll Wailers performed except bassist Aston \"Familyman\" Barrett, who was replaced by Cat Coore of Third World.\n\nThe performance included a horn section. \nThe set list for the show was as follows\n1. War/ No More Trouble/ Get Up Stand Up\n2. Crazy Baldhead/ Positive Vibration\n3. Smile Jamaica\n4. Rat Race\n5. TrenchTown Rock\n6. Keep on Moving\n7. Want More\n8. Them Belly Full\n9. Jah Live\n10. Rastaman Chant\n11. Rebel Music\n12. So Jah Seh\n\nAfter the concert Marley left Jamaica for Nassau and later London where he stayed for 16 months until he returned in 1978 for the One Love Peace Concert.\n\nThe second Smile Jamaica Concert was held February 10, 2008\n\nJamaican Television has a morning show named Smile Jamaica, an obvious nod to the popularity of the concert series.\n\nStir It Up: The CIA Targets Jamaica, Bob Marley and the Progressive Manley Government, an alternative historical novel by David Dusty Couples, weaves fact and fiction to dramatize the concert.\n\nThe novel \"A Brief History of Seven Killings\" by Marlon James dramatizes the attempt on Marley's life, including other events leading up to the Smile Jamaica concert.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3114680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114680", "title": "Soviet deportations from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina", "text": "Soviet deportations from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina\n\nThe Soviet deportations from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina took place between late 1940 and 1951 and were part of Joseph Stalin's policy of political repression of the potential opposition to the Soviet power (see Population transfer in the Soviet Union). The deported were typically moved to so-called \"special settlements\" (спецпоселения) (see \"Involuntary settlements in the Soviet Union\").\n\nThe deportations began after the Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, which occurred in June 1940. According to a secret Soviet ministry of interior report dated December 1965, 46,000 people were deported from Moldavia for the period 1940—1953.\n\nIn 1940, after the Romanian government, as a result of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, was forced to accept the Soviet ultimatum and withdrew from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, these regions were incorporated into the Soviet Union, most of the former being organized as the Moldavian SSR, while the other areas were attributed to the Ukrainian SSR. \n\nOn June 12–13, 1941, 29,839 members of families of \"counter-revolutionaries and nationalists\" from the Moldavian SSR, and from the Chernivtsi (of Northern Bukovina) and Izmail oblasts of the Ukrainian SSR were deported to Kazakhstan, the Komi ASSR, the Krasnoyarsk Krai, and the Omsk and Novosibirsk oblasts. For the fate of such a deportee from Bessarabia, see the example of Eufrosinia Kersnovskaya. The Georgian NKVD official Sergo Goglidze, trusted henchman of Lavrenty Beria, was in charge of this deportation from Bessarabia.\n\nDuring 1940 and 1941, 53,356 people from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina were deported to the Gulag forced-labor camp system across the entire territory of the Soviet Union, most of them living and working in poor conditions.\n\nProfessor Rudolph Rummel estimated that in 1940 – 1941, 200,000 to 300,000 Romanian Bessarabians were persecuted, conscripted into forced labor camps, or deported with the entire family, of whom 18,000 to 57,000 did not survived. According to some estimates, 12% of the population of the two provinces was killed and deported.\n\nOn June 22, 1941, Nazi Germany, together with several other countries, including Romania (which had the primary objective of reintegrating Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina into the Romanian state), attacked the Soviet Union (see Operation Barbarossa). After the start of the war, further mass deportations occurred in the USSR. In April 1942, Romanians deportees and some other nationalities were deported again from Crimea and the North Caucasus. In June 1942, Romanians and others were also deported from Krasnodar Krai and the Rostov Oblast.\n\nOn April 6, 1949, the Political Bureau of the Central Committee issued decision number 1290-467cc, which called for 11,280 families from Moldavian SSR to be deported as kulaks or collaborators with the \"German fascists occupier\" during World War II. Ultimately, 11,239 families, comprising 35,050 persons were detained and deported on July 6, 1949, with the rest either escaping or being exempt due to their contribution to the Soviet war effort or their support for collectivisation.\n\nOn February 19, 1951, Viktor Abakumov delivered to Stalin a secret notice which listed the planned numbers of deported \"Jehovists\" from Ukraine, Belorussia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Moldova, with 1,675 persons (670 families) listed for the latter. On March 3, the USSR Council of Ministers issued the corresponding decree, followed by an order of the Ministry of State Security of February 6. On March 24, the Council of Ministers of the Moldavian SSR issued the decree on the confiscation and selling of the property of the deportees. Operation North started at 4:00 am on April 1, 1951, and the round-ups continued until April 2. The deportees were classified as \"special settlers\". In total, from the Moldavian SSR, there were 723 families (2,617 persons) deported on the night of March 31 to April 1, 1951, all members of neoprotestant sects, mostly Jehovah's Witnesses, and qualified as religious elements considered a potential danger for the Communist regime.\n\n\nA memorial has been erected in Chișinău, close to Central Station, to commemorate the deportations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10443635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10443635", "title": "Sphere Project", "text": "Sphere Project\n\nThe Sphere Project was launched in 1997 to develop a set of minimum standards in core areas of humanitarian assistance. The aim of the project is to improve the quality of assistance provided to people affected by disasters, and to enhance the accountability of the humanitarian system in disaster response. One of the major results of the project has been the publication of the handbook, \"Humanitarian Charter and Minimum Standards in Disaster Response\".\n\nThe 1990s saw a rapid increase in the international activities of humanitarian agencies. This was particularly the case during Great Lakes refugee crisis in 1994. A growing number of donor and NGO evaluations were critical of the responses and actions of many NGOs. There was growing discussion among humanitarian agencies about the lack of standards for providing humanitarian assistance. Some of the preliminary conclusions of the multi-donor Joint Evaluation of Emergency Assistance to Rwanda were critical of the performance of humanitarian agencies in the Great Lakes crisis. A number of agencies felt that it was time to get their own houses in order and explored the idea of formulating standards for humanitarian response.\n\nSimultaneously, in 1996, discussions were taking place within InterAction and the Steering Committee for Humanitarian Response (SCHR) about a project for setting standards. The members of both organizations decided that it would be a good idea to pool their resources and set up a joint project. Thus, in 1997, the Sphere Project was set up with a management committee made up of representatives from each of the SCHR members and representatives from InterAction. More than 25 percent of the funds for the first phase of the project came from the member agencies of the management committee and the rest from a few government donors. From the beginning, three observers were invited to fully participate in the work of the management committee.\n\nSponsors:\n\nObservers: \n\nObjective: \"The project objective is to develop a humanitarian charter and associated set of minimum standards in collaboration with leading NGOs, interested donor governments and UN agencies, to both disseminate the resultant products widely within the international humanitarian system and to encourage their formal adoption and practice by relief agencies and their donors.\"\n\nIn July 1997, the first phase of one year of the project began.\n\nFive sectors were chosen to cover the basic sectors in humanitarian response:\n\nFive sector committees were formed, each with a manager seconded by one of the sponsoring agencies. The sector committees were made up of experts drawn not only from NGOs, but also from the Red Cross and Inter-governmental agencies such as the UNHCR, WHO, and WFP. The sector committees formulated minimum standards of assistance for each of the sectors. The intention of the project was that the setting up of minimum standards would help to improve accountability and the overall quality of humanitarian response to those affected by disasters.\n\nIn early 1998, a working group was established to draft the \"Humanitarian Charter\". Its final draft highlighted the importance of three principles in particular:\n\nBy May 1998, a draft edition of the handbook was posted on the Internet for comments. Phase 1 was extended by four months to October 1998.\n\nPhase 2 of the project was initiated in November focusing on the publication and dissemination of the standards and the development of training materials. In December, a first draft was published and launched both in Washington, DC, and London. The first draft notes that it was drawn up with the work of some 641 named individuals (plus countless unnamed persons), drawn from 228 organizations, including NGOs, the Red Cross/Red Crescent Movement, academic institutions, the United Nations and governmental agencies. It was posted on the Sphere Project site to allow for wide feedback.\n\nPhase 2 saw the development of extensive training material for using the handbook. The training program focuses \"mainly on the day-to-day work of the individual humanitarian practitioner.\" The main method is to use workshops for humanitarian field staff to facilitate the practical application of the minimum standards.\n\nThe handbook was completely revised and a second edition was launched in 2004. In addition an extensive external evaluation was carried out. As a project, Sphere came to an end in 2004.\n\nToday, the Sphere Project has taken on a new form, with an expanded board of 14 members replacing the project's management committee. Its focus \"has shifted towards facilitating the work of people already using and promoting Sphere at national and regional levels.\"\n\nFrom the beginning, a decision was made that an important part of the funding would come from the sponsoring agencies themselves, with the remainder made up of funds from governmental agencies. A little over a quarter of the funds for phase 1 came from the SCHR and InterAction with the rest coming from 10 governments. As the budget expanded in Phases 2 and 3, so did the number of government donors, shifting the balance, with governments contributing about 85% of the funds for the latter two phases.\n\nIn 1998, there was public criticism of the Sphere Project from a number of French humanitarian NGOs. They felt that Sphere was too focused on the technical aspects of humanitarian response and could easily ignore non-quantifiable aspects such as solidarity and witnessing. It also could devalue efforts of the affected population to solve their own problems.\n\nWithin the Sphere Project management committee, MSF was also critical of the project, fearing that it reduced humanitarian response \"to a simple mechanical and material exercise, devoid of its humanitarian ethos.\" There was a risk that by focusing on standards it could reduce humanitarian action to business to be performed only according to technical standards. At the end of Phase 2, MSF decided that it would not participate in Phase 3.\n"}
{"id": "31335539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31335539", "title": "Stageco", "text": "Stageco\n\nStageco is an international staging, event and structures engineering company.\n\nThe company has nine offices situated across the globe where they design and custom build concert stages and festival stages, corporate and sporting structures and temporary buildings for every kind of event as well as supplying PA structures, sport and delay towers, event scaffolding, roof structures, hydraulic lifts and platforms and grandstand structures. They have built stages for some of the top grossing tours. 2011 marks the 25th anniversary of Stageco.\n\nWith headquarters in Belgium, Stageco also have offices in France, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, UK and USA. The Stageco Group comprises around 170 staff including in-house designers, engineers, project managers and onsite crew.\n\nStageco designs and builds custom-made as well as standardized concert stages and temporary structures for all kind of events. The latest examples of their work include touring stages for Coldplay, Muse and the U2 360 Tour. In 2010 Stageco created the double configuration stage at Download for AC/DC and bespoke temporary event structure The Drum for the Middle East Gas celebrations organised by WRG for the 77 Mta Task Force. The company also provide stages for a variety of festivals including 11 stages for Lowlands Festival and a wide variety of high end fashion shows, including French designer Sonia Rykiel.\n\nStageco was officially founded by Hedwig De Meyer in Belgium in 1985, winning Total Productions Best Staging Company for five consecutive years. However the first Stageco stage was actually built for the Rock Werchter Festival in 1977. By the mid eighties Stageco were touring with Genesis and Pink Floyd, whilst refining the tower systems and roofs. In 1992 for Genesis’ We Can’t Dance tour the staging company worked directly with an architect to create a custom built stage. 1992 was the same year that Stageco US was incorporated, after touring in the states with Guns N' Roses and Metallica. Over the following years, new offices were opened in the Netherlands, Germany and France.\n\nStageco was among seven winners in the Plasa innovation award for the companies new The Arena Lift\nStageco won Favourite Staging Company in the 2012 TPi Awards.\n"}
{"id": "13021118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13021118", "title": "Swedish Crusades", "text": "Swedish Crusades\n\nPart of the Northern Crusades, the Swedish Crusades were campaigns by Sweden in Finland and Novgorod. They include:\n"}
{"id": "16081647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16081647", "title": "They have pierced my hands and my feet", "text": "They have pierced my hands and my feet\n\n\"They have pierced my hands and my feet\" is a phrase that occurs in some English translations of (Psalm 21:17 in the Greek Septuagint and Latin Vulgate). The text of the Hebrew Bible is obscure at this point, and Jewish and some Christian commentators translate this line differently, although there is no evidence of a deliberate mistranslation.\n\nThis verse, which is Psalm 22:17 in the Hebrew verse numbering, reads in the Masoretic Text as: כארי ידי ורגלי, which may be read literally as \"like a lion my hands and my feet\". The full verse of the Masoretic text reads: (\"Kî sĕḇāḇûnî kĕlāḇîm 'ăḏaṯ mĕrē'îm hiqqîpûnî kā'ărî yāḏay wĕraglāy\").\n\nWhen translated into English, the syntactical form of this Hebrew phrase appears to be lacking a verb. In this context the phrase was commonly explained in early Rabbinical paraphrases as \"they bite like a lion my hands and my feet\".\n\nThe Septuagint, a Jewish translation of the Hebrew Bible into Koine Greek made before the Common Era, has ωρυξαν χειράς μου και πόδας (\"they have dug my hands and feet\"), which Christian commentators argue could be understood in the general sense as \"pierced\". This reading was retained by Saint Jerome in his translation from the Greek Hexapla into the Latin of his Gallican Psalter (\"Foderunt manus meas et pedes meos\") which was incorporated into both the Vulgate and the Divine Office.\n\nAquila of Sinope, a 2nd-century CE Greek convert to Christianity and later to Judaism, undertook two translations of the Psalms from Hebrew to Greek. In the first, he renders the verse \"they disfigured my hands and feet\"; in the second he revised this to \"they have bound my hands and feet\".\n\nThe Jewish Publication Society translates the phrase a \"Like a lion, they are at my hands and my feet\".\n\nSome English language translations, primarily those translated by or for Christian communities, render the text as: \"They have pierced my hands and my feet\" although English translations are not uniform in this rendering. Versions translated outside of Christian circles, such as the Jewish Publication Society and The Judaica Press, use different English renderings based on the Hebrew text rather than the Greek.\n\nThe Vespasian Psalms use \"dulfun\", the preterite form of the Old English strong verb \"delfan\" (to dig). Wycliffe's Bible of 1395 uses \"delueden\", an alternate spelling of \"delveden\", the preterite form of the Middle English weak verb \"delven\". Modern English uses the late Middle English form, \"delve\". The archaic meaning of \"delved\" is to dig or excavate, a literal translation of the Latin Vulgate term \"foderunt\" (from Jerome's Hexaplar Psalms), from \"fodio\", I dig. Miles Coverdale in 1535, likely influenced by Luther's German translation as \"durchgraben\" (dig through, penetrate), chooses \"pearsed\" (pierced); and this has been retained in the majority of subsequent English versions.\n\nRashi follows the Masoretic Text and paraphrases the phrase as \"like lions (they maul) my hands and my feet.\" Rashi bases his translation of Psalm 22:16/17 on the other uses of the phrase (כָּ אֲרִי) \"ka'ari\" throughout the biblical text. Rashi cites Isaiah 38:13, in which translators uniformly render כָּאֲרִי as “like/as a lion”.\n\nThe Masoretic Text points כָּאֲרִי as a phrase: the prefix כָּ denotes \"like\" or \"as\", and ארי \"lion\". A variant form of the word for lion ( אריה ) \"arie\" occurs twice in Psalm 22, in verses 13/14 and 21/22.\n\nTo explain how divergent translations from the biblical text came about, Gregory Vall, a Christian professor of Religious Studies at Trinity Western University, speculated that the Septuagint translators were faced with כארו; i.e. as in the Masoretic text, but ending with the longer letter \"vav\" (ו) rather than the shorter \"yod\" (י), giving כארו \"ka'aru\". This is not a word in the Hebrew language, but without the aleph it becomes כרו, \"dug\", \"mined\", or \"excavated\". Biblical and Hebrew scholars, such as Brent Strawn, support the Masoretic Text reading of כארי (\"like a lion\"), based on textual analysis (i.e. derivatives of the word \"lion\" appear numerous times in the psalm and are a common metaphor in the Hebrew Bible), as well as its appearance in virtually every ancient Hebrew manuscript. An exception to this is a Psalms fragment from Nahal Hever, where the word in question is written as כארו, \"karu\", which becomes \"dug\" when omitting the aleph, as Vall had previously speculated. This finding is called into question by the Nahal Hever scribe's other numerous misspellings, such as one in the very same sentence, where ידיה is written instead of the correct ידי, making the Hebrew word ידי \"yadai\" \"my hands\" into ידיה \"yadeha\", “her hands\".\n\nIn Peter Craigie's view, \"MT’s כָּאֲרִי ('like a lion') presents numerous problems and can scarcely be correct.\" Reading the consonantal text כארו or כרו, he says that the Septuagint “they pierced my hands and feet” (ὤρυξαν) \"may perhaps presuppose a verb כרה, 'to dig,' or כור, 'to pierce, bore'.\" Craigie notes alternative possibilities for the verb אָרָה (“to pluck, pick clean”), or כרה, “to be shrunken, shriveled”, but follows E. J. Kissane's proposal of an original text כלו, “consumed”, changed to כרו (noting the occasional interchange of ל and ר), with the nuance \"my hands and my feet were exhausted\".\n\nThe translation \"they have pierced\" is preferred by many Christian commentators for its christological implications. For example, Craig Blomberg, commenting on the allusions to Psalm 22 in the Gospel of Matthew, includes \"he is surrounded by wicked onlookers (22:16a) who pierce his hands and feet (22:16b)\" among \"an astonishing number of close parallels to the events of Jesus' crucifixion\". However, the phrase is not quoted directly in the New Testament, despite the Septuagint Greek reading \"dug\" that might be thought to prefigure the piercing of Jesus' hands and feet.\n\n"}
{"id": "29192344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29192344", "title": "Tragedy (event)", "text": "Tragedy (event)\n\nA tragedy is an event of great loss, usually of human life. Such an event is said to be \"tragic\". Traditionally the event would require \"some element of moral failure, some flaw in character, or some extraordinary combination of elements\" to be tragic.\n\nNot all death is considered a tragedy. Rather it is a precise set of symptoms surrounding the loss that define it as such. There are a variety of factors that define a death as \"tragic\".\n\nAn event in which a massive number of deaths occur may be seen as a tragedy. This can be re-enforced by media attention or other public outcry.\n\nA tragedy does not necessarily involve massive death. The death of a single person, e.g., a public figure or a child, may be seen as a tragedy. The person need not necessarily have been famous before death.\n\nGenerally, the label of \"tragedy\" is given to an event based on public perception. There are a number of factors that can make a death be considered a tragedy.\n\nThe scope of an event can affect the public view, and make it appear tragic. This can be the case whether the death toll is high, or if a single, unexpected death occurs in a well-beloved person.\n\nThe degree of attachment in the public eye may also impact whether or not the event is publicly labeled as a tragedy. For example, the unexpected death of a preparatory school student that receives heavy media attention may be seen as more tragic than that of a recidivist prisoner who is beaten to death by fellow inmates.\n\nA death may be viewed as a tragedy when it is premature in nature. An old person dying of old age is an expectation, but the death of a child or of a young, healthy adult that is not expected by others can be viewed as tragic.\n\nPublicity is a factor in making the public view an event as a tragedy. With publicity of a large number of deaths or even a single death, this plays on the emotions of the general public, and thereby impacts perception.\n\nThe range of coverage affects the number of people in whose eyes the event is viewed as tragic. While local coverage may garner sympathy from those in the hometown of the deceased, international coverage may lead the whole world to mourn.\n\nThe resulting consequences from one or more deaths can be seen as a tragedy. For example, if a large number of persons are killed in a terrorist attack, not only is life lost, but others may lose their sense of security, and this impacts the lives of others in other ways.\n\nThe long-term effects of an event can render it as tragic. Tragedies often have effects that shape those affected, and are remembered even long after, as they clearly impact the future for those involved. They may also be commemorated on anniversaries or whenever they otherwise come to mind. A public tragedy often leads to measures being taken to prevent similar tragic events in the future.\n\nThere are various ways tragedy can affect people.\n\nThe typical reaction to tragedy is heavy grief, followed by a slow recovery. Common feelings following a tragedy include sadness, depression, crying, blame, and guilt. Some people wonder what they did to deserve such suffering.\n\nFor some, their faith may be a source of comfort in the wake of tragedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "58885922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58885922", "title": "Ubud Writers and Readers Festival", "text": "Ubud Writers and Readers Festival\n\nUbud Writers and Readers Festival (UWRF) is an annual literary festival held at Ubud, Bali in Indonesia. It is organized by the not-for-profit foundation \"Yayasan Mudra Swari Saraswati\". The festival was first conceived of by Janet DeNeefe, Co-founder of the Foundation, as a healing project in response to the first 2002 Bali bombings. It was first held in 2003 as part of an effort to help revive tourism, the island’s main economic lifeline, after terrorist bombings devastated the island’s Kuta district a year earlier. The festival is usually in October each year.\n\nIt is known as Southeast Asia’s biggest festival of words and ideas, which is participated by the world’s most celebrated writers, artists, thinkers and performers.\n"}
