{"id": "10367640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10367640", "title": "Allothetic", "text": "Allothetic\n\nAllothetic means being centred in people or places other than oneself, and is used in navigation models (e.g., of a rat in a maze) as in the phrase \"allothetic map\" to indicate that a global map, not orientated or centred on the subject was used, rather than idiothetic, which means a navigation system centred on the subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "18936343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18936343", "title": "Amethyst Initiative", "text": "Amethyst Initiative\n\nThe Amethyst Initiative is an organization made up of U.S. college presidents and chancellors that in July 2008 launched a movement calling for the reconsideration of U.S. legal drinking age, particularly the minimum age of 21. The National Minimum Drinking Age Act of 1984 requires all US states to raise their minimum age for purchase and public possession of alcohol to 21 or face a reduction in highway funds under the Federal-Aid Highway Act. The Amethyst Initiative was initiated by John McCardell, founder of Choose Responsibility, a former professor of history at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont and current Vice-Chancellor of , and is currently supported by 136 college presidents who signed a statement proclaiming, \"It’s time to rethink the drinking age\".\n\nAccording to Greek and Roman legend, amethysts protected their owners from drunkenness.\n\nThe Amethyst Initiative states that, in their experience as university presidents, they have observed, \"Alcohol education that mandates abstinence as the only legal option has not resulted in significant constructive behavioral change among our students,\" and therefore they urge lawmakers \"to invite new ideas about the best ways to prepare young adults to make responsible decisions about alcohol\".\n\nGustavus Adolphus College President Jack R. Ohle said in a statement that the initiative is not about lowering the drinking age, but to open a debate on alcohol policies that affect young people and their choices about alcohol use. \n\nThe Amethyst Initiative states the following:\n\nSignatories of the initiative include:\n\nThe initiative's proposal has been criticized by several groups and government and industry officials, including Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). Joining MADD's criticism are other groups, including the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, the American Medical Association, and the National Transportation Safety Board. A spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association told \"The Washington Post\" that university leaders \"are really just punting on the issue and leaving the high school principals to deal with it.\" However, Amethyst Initiative's parent organization, Choose Responsibility, proposes that only high school graduates should be eligible.\n\nIn a press release, MADD argues that lowering the drinking age would result in greater numbers of fatal automobile accidents, and that the presidents are \"looking for an easy way out of an inconvenient problem\" and \"misrepresenting science.\" MADD cited former U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, and current University of Miami president Donna Shalala statement that \"maintaining the legal drinking age at 21 is a socially and medically sound policy that helps parents, schools and law enforcement protect our youth from the potentially life-threatening effects of underage drinking.\"\nChoose Responsibility argues that scientific evidence supports the Amethyst Initiative's views and goals, and refutes some of MADD's past claims. Sanford Ungar, president of Goucher College and signee of the initiative argues that opponents should not fear because the Amethyst Initiative is about opening up the debate to improve alcohol policy. He brings about the misconception that they want to \"polarize\" the issue at hand, but instead wishes to find a better alternative to the current drinking age.\n\nRadley Balko, of \"Reason,\" wryly noted inconsistency opponents of the Amethyst Initiative believe that it \"would be a \"national tragedy\" to, for example, allow 19- and 20-year-old men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to have a beer in celebration of completing their tours of duty.\" Balko also noted research showing that underage drinking laws had not reduced highway deaths.\n\nIn November 2008, the Student Senate at the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse rejected a proposal to urge that university's chancellor to sign the Amethyst Initiative. Supposedly the first such attempt by a student body to ask a president or chancellor to sign on, the measure at UW–L was defeated 14-19 after three weeks' debate. Chancellor Joe Gow said this vote, \"certainly defies the 'conventional wisdom' regarding young people being eager to lower the drinking age.\"\n\nIn 2014, a pair of researchers published a literature review in Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs of studies on the effect of the drinking age in response to the Amethyst Initiative; the review indicates support for the drinking age remaining at 21. That review, however, was specific to studies focused on the United States of America and comparing trends before and after 1984; based on World Health Organization (WHO) data from 2011 and 2014, foreign countries with lesser drinking ages often have fewer alcohol-related deaths per capita annually than the USA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "951407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=951407", "title": "Bed", "text": "Bed\n\nA bed is a piece of furniture which is used as a place to sleep or relax.\n\nMost modern beds consist of a soft, cushioned mattress on a bed frame, the mattress resting either on a solid base, often wood slats, or a sprung base. Many beds include a box spring inner-sprung base, which is a large mattress-sized box containing wood and springs that provide additional support and suspension for the mattress. Beds are available in many sizes, ranging from infant-sized bassinets and cribs, to small beds for a single person or adult, to large queen and king-size beds designed for two people. While most beds are single mattresses on a fixed frame, there are other varieties, such as the murphy bed, which folds into a wall, the sofa bed, which folds out of a sofa, and the bunk bed, which provides two mattresses on two tiers. Temporary beds include the inflatable air mattress and the folding camp cot. Some beds contain neither a padded mattress nor a bed frame, such as the hammock, which is considered one of the most comfortable places to rest while swaying side to side. Some beds are made especially for animals.\n\nBeds may have a headboard for resting against, and may have side rails and footboards (or \"footers\"). \"Headboard only\" beds may incorporate a \"dust ruffle\", \"bed skirt\", or \"valance sheet\" to hide the bed frame. To support the head, a pillow made of a soft, padded material is usually placed on the top of the mattress. Some form of covering blanket is often used to insulate the sleeper, often bed sheets, a quilt, or a duvet, collectively referred to as bedding. Bedding is the removable non-furniture portion of a bed, which enables these components to be washed or aired out.\n\nEarly beds were little more than piles of straw or some other natural material (e.g. a heap of palm leaves, animal skins, or dried bracken). An important change was raising them off the ground, to avoid drafts, dirt, and pests. 23-5 million years ago, before the advent of humans, apes began creating beds composed of a sleeping platform including a wooden pillow. Bedding dated around to 3600 BC was discovered in Sibudu Cave, South Africa. The bedding consists of sedge and other monocotyledons topped with the leaves of Cryptocarya woodii Engl. Beds found in a preserved northern Scottish village, which were raised boxes made of stone and likely topped with comfortable fillers, were dated to between 3200 BC and 2200 BC. The Egyptians had high bedsteads which were ascended by steps, with bolsters or pillows, and curtains to hang around. The elite of Egyptian society such as its pharaohs and queens even had beds made of wood, sometimes gilded. Often there was a head-rest as well, semi-cylindrical and made of stone, wood, or metal. Ancient Assyrians, Medes, and Persians had beds of a similar kind, and frequently decorated their furniture with inlays or appliques of metal, mother-of-pearl, and ivory.\nThe adjacent image showcases a headrest. Headrests like this were used in life to support the head while sleeping. They are also found supporting a mummy's head in the coffin. This headrest perhaps was made specifically for the tomb, since the offering prayer has been inscribed on the supporting column, although the prayer may have been added after the death of the owner.\n\nThe oldest account of a bed is probably that of Odysseus: a charpoy woven of rope plays a role in the \"Odyssey\". A similar bed can be seen at the St Fagans National History Museum in Wales. Odysseus also gives an account of how he crafted the nuptial bed for himself and Penelope, out of an ancient, huge olive tree trunk that used to grow on the spot before the bridal chamber was built. His detailed description finally persuades the doubting Penelope that the shipwrecked, aged man is indeed her long-lost husband. Homer also mentions the inlaying of the woodwork of beds with gold, silver, and ivory. The Greek bed had a wooden frame, with a board at the head and bands of hide laced across, upon which skins were placed. At a later period the bedstead was often veneered with expensive woods; sometimes it was of solid ivory veneered with tortoise-shell and with silver feet; often it was of bronze. The pillows and coverings also became more costly and beautiful; the most celebrated places for their manufacture were Miletus, Corinth and Carthage. Folding beds, too, appear in the famous Ancient Greek vase paintings.\n\nRoman mattresses were stuffed with reeds, hay, or wool. Feathers were used towards the end of the Republic, when custom demanded luxury. Small cushions were placed at the head and sometimes at the back. The bedsteads were high and could only be ascended by the help of steps. They were often arranged for two people, and had a board or railing at the back, as well as the raised portion at the head. The counterpanes were sometimes very costly, generally purple embroidered with figures in gold; and rich hangings fell to the ground masking the front. The bedsteads themselves were often of bronze inlaid with silver, and Elagabalus had one of solid silver. In the walls of some houses at Pompeii bed niches are found which were probably closed by curtains or sliding partitions. Ancient Romans had various kinds of beds for repose. These included:\n\nThe ancient Germans lay on the floor on beds of leaves covered with skins, or in a kind of shallow chest filled with leaves and moss. In the early Middle Ages they laid carpets on the floor or on a bench against the wall, placed upon them mattresses stuffed with feathers, wool, or hair, and used skins as a covering. Curtains were hung from the ceiling or from an iron arm projecting from the wall. They appear to have generally lain naked in bed, wrapping themselves in large linen sheets which were stretched over the cushions.\n\nIn the 12th century, luxury increased and bedsteads were made of wood much decorated with inlaid, carved, and painted ornamentation. They also used folding beds, which served as couches by day and had cushions covered with silk laid upon leather. At night a linen sheet was spread and pillows placed, while silk-covered skins served as coverlets. The Carolingian manuscripts show metal bedsteads much higher at the head than at the feet, and this shape continued in use until the 13th century in France, many cushions being added to raise the body to a sloping position. In 12th-century manuscripts, the bedsteads appear much richer, with inlays, carving, and painting, and with embroidered coverlets and mattresses in harmony. Curtains were hung above the bed and a small hanging lamp is often shown.\n\nIn the 14th century the woodwork became of less importance, generally being entirely covered by hangings of rich materials. Silk, velvet, and even cloth of gold were frequently used. Inventories from the beginning of the 14th century give details of these hangings lined with fur and richly embroidered. It was then that the Four poster bed (also known as a \"tester bed\") made its first appearance, the bed being slung from the ceiling or fastened to the walls, a form which developed later into a room within a room, shut in by double curtains, sometimes even to exclude all drafts. The space between bed and wall was called the \"ruelle\", and very intimate friends were received there. The 14th century is also the time when feather beds became highly prized possessions.\n\nIn the 15th century beds became very large, reaching by . The mattresses were often filled with pea-shucks, straw, or feathers. At this time great personages were in the habit of carrying most of their property about with them, including beds and bed-hangings, and for this reason the bedsteads were for the most part mere frameworks to be covered up; but about the beginning of the 16th century bedsteads were made lighter and more decorative, since the lords remained in the same place for longer periods.\n\nIn the 17th century, which has been called \"the century of magnificent beds\", the style \"a la duchesse\", with tester and curtains only at the head, replaced the more enclosed beds in France, though they lasted much longer in England. Louis XIV had an enormous number of sumptuous beds, as many as 413 being described in the inventories of his palaces. Some of them had embroideries enriched with pearls, and figures on a silver or golden ground. The great bed at Versailles had crimson velvet curtains on which \"The Triumph of Venus\" was embroidered. So much gold was used that the velvet scarcely showed. \nIn the 18th century feather pillows were first used as coverings in Germany, which in the fashions of the bed and the curious etiquette connected with the bedchamber followed France for the most part. The beds were \"a la duchesse\", but in France itself there was great variety both of name and shape. The custom of the \"bed of justice\" upon which the king of France reclined when he was present in parliament, the princes being seated, the great officials standing, and the lesser officials kneeling, was held to denote the royal power even more than the throne.\n\nLouis XI is credited with its first use and the custom lasted until the end of the monarchy. In the \"chambre de parade\", where the ceremonial bed was placed, certain persons, such as ambassadors or great lords, whom it was desired to honour, were received in a more intimate fashion than the crowd of courtiers. At Versailles women received their friends in their beds, both before and after childbirth, during periods of mourning, and even directly after marriage—in fact in any circumstances which were thought deserving of congratulation or condolence. During the 17th century this curious custom became general, perhaps to avoid the tiresome details of etiquette. Portable beds were used in high society in France until the end of the \"Ancien Régime\". The earliest of which mention has been found belonged to Charles the Bold. They had curtains over a light framework, and were in their way as fine as the stationary beds.\n\nIron beds appear in the 18th century; the advertisements declare them as free from the insects which sometimes infested wooden bedsteads. Elsewhere, there was also the closed bed with sliding or folding shutters, and in England—where beds were commonly quite simple in form—the four poster was the usual citizen's bed until the middle of the 19th century.\n\nBed sizes vary considerably around the world, with most countries having their own standards and terminology. While the \"double\" size appears to be standard among English speaking countries, based on the imperial measurement of 4 ft 6 in by 6 ft 3 in (137 cm x 190 cm), the sizes for other bed types tend to vary. Mainland European sizes differ, not merely because of the use of the metric system.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, the United States bedding industry introduced a new size: the king size. A king-sized bed differs from the other sizes in implementation, as it is not common to have a king-sized box spring; rather, two smaller box-springs are used under a king-sized mattress. It is a common misconception that in a US \"standard\" or \"Eastern king\", the box springs are identical in size to a \"twin extra-long\"; however, \"twin extra-long\" mattresses next to each other add up to wide instead of the width that is standard for an \"eastern king\". Another size variant in the United States is the \"California king\", which measures long (narrower but longer than the standard king).\n\nWhat is referred to as a \"single bed\" in many parts of the world may also be known in US terminology as a \"twin bed.\" In some countries, a \"twin bed\" may also be used to describe one of two single beds in the same room. As another example, in some cultures, the \"full mattress\" is referred to as a \"master size bed.\"\n\nOne of the largest beds in the world is the Great Bed of Ware, made in about 1580. It is wide, long. The bed is mentioned by Shakespeare in \"Twelfth Night\". It is now in the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A) in London. Another bed in the V&A is the Golden Bed created by William Burges in 1879.\n\nIn 1882, an Indian Maharajah had a bed made of solid silver. At each corner of the bed there was a life-sized statue of a naked woman holding a fan. When the Maharajah lay on the bed, his weight started a mechanism that made the women wave their fans.\n\nIn 1865, a convertible bed in the form of an upright piano was available, which could provide home entertainment while saving space.\n\nThere are many varieties of beds:\n\nBed frames, also called bed steads, are made of wood or metal. The frame is made up of head, foot, and side rails. For heavy duty or larger frames (such as for queen- and king-sized beds), the bed frame also includes a center support rail. These rails are assembled to create a box for the mattress or mattress/box spring to sit on.\n\nTypes include:\n\nAlthough not truly parts of a bed frame, headboards, footboards, and bed rails can be included in the definition. Headboards and footboards can be wood or metal. They can be stained, painted, or covered in fabric or leather.\n\nBed rails are made of wood or metal and are attached to a headboard and footboard. Wooden slats are placed perpendicular to the bed rails to support the mattress/mattress box spring. Bed rails and frames are often attached to the bed post using knock-down fittings. A knock-down fitting enables the bed to be easily dismantled for removal. Primary knock-down fittings for bed rails are as follows:\n\n\nSafety rails, or cot sides, can be added to the sides of a bed (normally a child or elderly person's bed) to stop anyone falling out of the sides of the bed. A safety rail is normally a piece of wood that attaches to the side rails on one or both sides of the bed. They are made so that they can be easily removed when no longer required.\n\n"}
{"id": "4307070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4307070", "title": "Bhaskar–Jagannathan syndrome", "text": "Bhaskar–Jagannathan syndrome\n\nBhaskar–Jagannathan syndrome is an extremely rare genetic disorder and there is a limited amount of information related to it. Similar or related medical conditions are arachnodactyly, aminoaciduria, congenital cataracts, cerebellar ataxia, and delayed developmental milestones.\n\nBhaskar–Jagannathan has symptoms such as long fingers, thin fingers, poor balance, incoordination, high levels of amino acids in urine, cataracts during infancy, and ataxia. Ataxia, which is a neurological sign and symptom made up of gross incoordination of muscle movements and is a specific clinical manifestation\nThere are three different ways to diagnose Bhaskar–Jagannathan. This disorder may be diagnosed by a urine test, a blood test, and an X-ray of the eyes or other body parts.\n\nTreatment for this rare genetic disorder can be physical therapy, there have been antibiotics found to be affective, and surgery has been found to be another solution.\n"}
{"id": "53328564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53328564", "title": "Capital punishment in the Maldives", "text": "Capital punishment in the Maldives\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in the Maldives, but the last execution (as of May 2018) was carried out in 1954, when the country was a British colony.\n\nThe only legal method of execution is lethal injection, although hanging has been proposed. Crimes punishable by death include murder, adultery, apostasy, terrorism and treason - however the punishment is not mandatory for any crime. The death penalty is a legal punishment for defendants over seven years old.\n\nCurrently, it is believed that there are about 17-20 individuals under a sentence of death in the Maldives, 13 of which were sentenced in 2013.\n\nIn 2016, convicted murderer Hussain Humaam Ahmed was scheduled to be executed by lethal injection in the Maldives, but the execution was postponed following international calls for clemency. In late July, 2017, another execution date was scheduled for Ahmed, and the Maldives stated that they intended to carry out his execution and the executions of two others in September 2017. For unknown reasons, the executions ended up not being carried out. A Maldives government spokesperson stated the delays in executions would be resolved by October 8, 2017. Again, the date passed with no executions being carried out.\n\nThe Maldives voted against the United Nations moratorium on the death penalty in 2007 and 2008, then voted in favor of the moratorium in 2010, then abstained from voting in 2012 and 2014, and then voted against it again in 2016.\n\nIn 2018, it was widely reported that the Maldives will bring back the death penalty. \n"}
{"id": "17011624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17011624", "title": "Catholic Health Initiatives", "text": "Catholic Health Initiatives\n\nCatholic Health Initiatives (CHI) is a national nonprofit health system with headquarters in Englewood, Colorado. CHI is a nonprofit, faith-based health system formed in 1996 through the consolidation of four Catholic health systems. It is one of the nation's largest healthcare systems.\n\nCHI began operation July 1, 1996.\n\nThe founding systems were the following:\nExpansion: \nCatholic Health Initiatives has expanded since 2011, entering new states and expanding in existing ones. CHI also acquired the health insurer QualChoice, but was unsuccessful in its ownership; QualChoice is currently for sale.\n\nColorado-based CHI is one of the nation's largest health systems, operating in 18 states and comprising 104 hospitals, including four academic health centers and major teaching hospitals and 30 critical-access facilities; community health-services organizations; accredited nursing colleges; home-health agencies; and other facilities that span the inpatient and outpatient continuum of care.\n\nIn fiscal year 2014, CHI provided $910 million in charity care and community benefit - a nearly 20% increase over the previous year - for programs and services for the poor, free clinics, education and research. Charity care and community benefit totaled more than $1.7 billion with the inclusion of the unpaid costs of Medicare. The health system, which generated revenues of almost $13.9 billion (FY 2014), has total assets of $21.8 billion.\n\nIn January 2013, the hospital's defense lawyers provoked controversy by arguing against a wrongful death lawsuit that unborn fetuses should not be classed as persons, contradicting Catholic doctrine. When the case was submitted to the three bishops of Colorado for review, they issued a joint statement which reiterated their commitment to defending human dignity against attacks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36551742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36551742", "title": "Central Hospital of Yaoundé", "text": "Central Hospital of Yaoundé\n\nThe Central Hospital of Yaoundé (In French, Hôpital Central de Yaoundé - HCY) is a hospital in the city of Yaoundé, Cameroon founded in 1933.\nIt is Cameroon’s largest hospital.\nSimon Pierre Tchoungui (1916-1997), the former prime minister of East Cameroun, was medical superintendent of the hospital in 1960 before being appointed Minister of Health in 1961.\n\nThe hospital was originally a day facility, but since has gone through several structural changes and now offers 24/7 care.\nTreatment of HIV/AIDS is one of the main programs, with the day hospital following about 12,000 people who are living with HIV and 3,600 who have ARV treatment.\nThe hospital is one of the two teaching hospitals in Yaoundé, the other being the University Teaching Hospital of Yaounde.\nA study of births at these two hospitals between 2002 and 2007 showed increasing frequency of triple pregnancies due to use of fertility treatments.\n\nEach year the hospital conducts over 300 surgeries and assists with thousands of births.\nThe hospital has the busiest trauma center in the city.\nA study of admission records in 2007 showed a total of 6,274 trauma patients admitted to the emergency ward.\nOf these, 71% were male, with a mean age of 29 years. 60% of the injuries were from traffic accidents and 22.5% were from assault. \nBased on the catchment area, this is a high rate of injury.\n"}
{"id": "58720991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58720991", "title": "Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Campbelltown Branch (former)", "text": "Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, Campbelltown Branch (former)\n\nCommercial Banking Company of Sydney (CBC), Campbelltown Branch is a heritage-listed former restaurant, offices and bank building and now medical centre located at 263 Queen Street, Campbelltown in the City of Campbelltown local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It was designed by Mansfield Brothers and built from 1874 to 1881. It is also known as Old CBC Bank; CBC Bank. The property is privately owned. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\nPermanent European settlement in the Campbelltown area had begun in 1809 as an alternative to the flood-prone Hawkesbury district. Work on a road from Sydney to Liverpool was started in 1811. It was opened in August 1814 and was soon extended further south to Appin. This road, variously known as Campbelltown Road, Appin Road or the Sydney Road, passed through Campbelltown. The section through the town was called the High Street until the last decade of the 19th century when it was renamed Queen Street.\n\nThe land on which the Queen Street cottages stand was part of a grant of to Joseph Phelps in 1816. He had been working the land for some years before receiving formal title to it. Phelps was one of the farmers of Airds and Appin who subscribed funds for a Sydney courthouse in July 1813. His grant was seized, possibly as soon as it was formally issued, by the Provost Marshal, William Gore in lieu of payment by Phelps of debts totalling ₤170. The land was auctioned in January 1817 to William Bradbury for ₤100 plus twelve cattle and the grain produced from the crop growing on the land.\n\nImmediately north of Phelps' grant, Assistant Surveyor James Meehan had informally reserved for a village (AMCG, 1994 say \"in 1815\".) In 1816 most of the land in the area was granted, leaving a portion of unalienated, and surrounded by several grants.\n\nThe reserved land was formally declared a town by Governor Macquarie in December 1820 and named Campbelltown in honour of his wife (Elizabeth)'s family.\n\nWilliam Bradbury (1774-1836) a native of Birmingham, was transported to NSW aboard the \"Guildford\" in 1812. His wife Elizabeth remained in England but his daughter, Mary (1797-1852) followed her father to Australia in 1815. Bradbury had no other children in NSW, though he established a relationship with a woman named Alice and in April 1836 married a Campbelltown widow, Catherine Patrick, nee Acres (-1883). Bradbury died two months later.\n\nGovernor Macquarie visited Campbelltown in January 1822. He and his party ate a \"hearty\" breakfast at 'Bradbury's', indicating that Bradbury had built an inn. This was probably the inn later known as the Royal Oak, on the western side of the High Street. Macquarie noted in his journal that 'Bradbury is building a very good two storey brick house on his own farm and on a very pretty eminence immediately adjoining Campbell-Town as an inn for the accommodation of the public, and having asked me to give his farm a name, I have called it Bradbury Park. In 1826 Bradbury Park House was considered by William Dumaresq, inspector of roads and bridges, as the best building in Campbelltown when he reported on buildings suitable for military use.\n\nAs the main street of Campbelltown, High Street or Sydney Road and later Queen Street, was at the edge of town, one side of the street was not within the town boundary while the other was. Canny traders soon realised that either side of the main road was as good as the other and leased or bought land from the grantees bordering the town proper. By the 1840s more than a few shops and hotels occupied the western side of the High Street. The coming of the railway in 1858 also aided in securing the commercial focus of the town on Queen Street.\n\nThe Queen Street terraces were identified by Helen Baker (Proudfoot) in the early 1960s as a unique group of two-storey late Georgian vernacular buildings which were considered to form the only surviving late-1840s streetscape within the County of Cumberland. The buildings were acquired by the Cumberland County Council and its successors, the State Planning Authority and Department of Planning, to ensure their preservation.\n\nJoseph Phelps was granted adjoining the future site of Campbelltown in 1816. His was one of a group of the first grants made that year. The subject property (the future 263 Queen Street) represents a small portion of the original grant. Phelps did not develop the portion of the grant that is the subject of this study. In fact no plan shows any development before 1881.\n\nPhelps increased his holdings to in 1817, and that year conveyed the larger property to Thomas Clarkson. It passed through several hands up to 1870, however it appears was not developed in any way. It was presumably used for agricultural purposes.\n\nSamuel Parker, blacksmith, bought the subject property as part of a larger parcel in 1870 from Charles Morris. Parker owned the adjoining property (south side) and appears to have worked and resided on the property. What use, if any, he made of the subject site is unclear (Parker's house can be seen to the left of the bank in an 1881-83 photograph).\n\nThe Commercial Banking Company (CBC) of Sydney opened its first Campbelltown office in leased premises, McGuannes House at 286 Queen Street (across the road from no. 263) in 1874, with George L. Jones as manager. McGuannes House is separately listed on the State Heritage Register. It is owned by the Department of Environment & Planning and is at present leased as a doctor's surgery. AMCG (1994, 14) states that CBC bought the property (263 Queen Street) from Samuel Parker (not Morris) in 1876 and had the present building built in 1881. AMCG states that the bank's first permanent manager from 1874 was A. J. Gore, who served until he retired in 1904.\n\nThe bank moved into its own premises at 263 Queen Street in 1881. This building (built between 1874 and 1881) was designed by the Mansfield Brothers who were important Victorian architects employed by the CBC Bank on a number of projects designing many bank chambers, examples surviving in many country towns. It is a fine and restrained Italianate style rendered and painted building symmetrically designed about a small portico.\n\nThe bank sold a portion of the land it bought from Parker in 1880. The land was purchased in the name of the Queen for a new post office. That building was completed the same year as the CBC chambers.\n\nIn 1959 the bank sold off another portion of its 1876 purchase to the Commowealth of Australia, presumably for the creation of a telephone exchange.\n\nThe banking chamber has been altered, but it is understood that the building still contains a stone domed vault, and the original staircase and other joinery. There is a large yard behind the bank which contains a stable/ coach house, now used as a garage.\n\nThe CBC sold the bank cahmbers and property at 263 Queen Street in 1986, moving to new premises (as the National Australia Bank). In recent times the former bank building at 263 Queen Street has been leased by a Pancake restaurant and is today (1994) used as the offices for a local newspaper.\n\nThere is a large yard behind the bank which contains an 1874 stable/ coach house, now used as a garage.\n\nA fine and restrained Victorian Italianate style rendered and painted building symmetrically designed about a small portico. The banking chamber has been altered, but it is understood that the building still contains a stone domed vault, and the original staircase and other joinery.\n\nC-shaped building around a courtyard.\n\nIt includes a stone-domed bank vault.\n\nAs at 8 July 2008, the banking chamber has been altered, but it is understood that the building still contains a stone domed vault, and the original staircase and other joinery. There is a large yard behind the bank which contains a stable/coach house, now used as a garage.\n\n\nAs at 26 October 2011, The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney set up its first Campbelltown office in McGuannes House in 1874 and moved into its own premises at 263 Queen Street, in 1881. The Italianate style building was designed by Victoria's Mansfield Brothers, the architects responsible for a number of the bank's projects.\n\nThe bank complements the old Post Office next door in period, scale and style and together these make an important contribution to this area of Queen Street.\n\nCBC Bank was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "4171232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4171232", "title": "Daniel Batson", "text": "Daniel Batson\n\nC. Daniel Batson (born March 15, 1943) is an American social psychologist. He has two doctoral degrees, in theology (from Princeton Theological Seminary) and psychology (from Princeton University's Department of Psychology). Batson obtained his doctorate under John Darley and taught at the University of Kansas. He retired in 2006 and now is an emeritus professor in the psychology department at the University of Tennessee. He is best known for his contributions to three fields: the social psychology of altruism, empathic concern, and psychology of religion.\n\nBatson has become well known for the empathy-altruism hypothesis, which states that \"feeling empathy for [a] person in need evokes motivation to help [that person] in which these benefits to self are not the ultimate goal of helping; they are unintended consequences\" (Batson & Shaw 1991, p. 114). The theory, initially proposed as an explanation of the so-called \"empathy-helping relationship\", implies that pure altruism is possible and that psychological egoism is false. Indeed, Aronson, Wilson and Akert (2005) have described Batson as \"the strongest proponent that people often help others purely out of the goodness of their hearts\" (Aronson et al., 2005, p362). Batson has published experimental research to support the empathy-altruism hypothesis against various alternative egoistic explanations. Critics who believe that all apparently altruistic actions are actually egoistic have attacked the theory (see, for example, the competing negative state relief model). More on the empathy-altruism hypothesis can be found in a number of social psychology textbooks, including Brehm and Kassin (1996).\n\nBatson is also the co-author of an often-cited study examining bystander intervention in theology students (Darley & Batson, 1973). In this study, students' religious views and personalities did not correlate with their willingness to help a needy bystander. Rather, the best predictor of whether a student would stop to help was how hurried they felt. Since some students were assigned work on the parable of the Good Samaritan, and the assignment had no effect on their behavior, the study has been cited as evidence that exposure to the parable does not make people more helpful. There has been debate about whether Batson used appropriate statistics to analyze this study (Greenwald, 1975).\n\nWork in social psychology has for a long time been interested in the distinction between imagining the other and imagining oneself, and in particular in the emotional and motivational consequences of these two perspectives. A number of Batson's studies documented that focusing on another's feelings may evoke stronger empathic concern, while explicitly putting oneself into the target's shoes induces both empathic concern and personal distress. In one such study, Batson and colleagues investigated the affective consequences of different perspective-taking instructions when participants listened to a story about Katie Banks, a young college student struggling after the death of her parents. This study demonstrated that different instructions had distinct effects on how participants perceived the target’s situation. Notably, participants imagining themselves in Katie’s place showed stronger signs of discomfort and personal distress than participants focusing on her responses and feelings, or participants instructed to take an objective, detached point of view. Also, both perspective-taking instructions differed from the detached perspective by resulting in higher empathic concern. This may help explain why observing a need situation does not always produce prosocial behavior: if perceiving another person in an emotionally or physically painful circumstance elicits personal distress, the observer may tend not to fully attend to the other's experience and as a result may not behave sympathetically.\n\nBatson recently collaborated with University of Chicago neuroscientist Jean Decety on a study using functional neuroimaging to investigate the neural underpinnings of empathy and personal distress. While being scanned, participants watched a series of video clips of patients undergoing painful medical treatment. They were asked to either put themselves explicitly in the shoes of the patient (imagine self), or to focus on their feelings and affective expressions (imagine other). The behavioral data confirmed that explicitly projecting oneself into an aversive situation leads to higher personal distress whereas focusing on the emotional and behavioral reactions of another's plight yields greater empathic concern and less personal distress. The neuroimaging data were consistent with this finding and provided insights into the neural correlates of these distinct behavioral responses. The self-perspective evoked stronger hemodynamic responses in brain regions involved in coding the motivational-affective dimensions of pain, including bilateral insular cortices, anterior cingulate cortex, the amygdala, and various structures involved in motor preparation. The amygdala plays a critical role in the evaluation of actual or potential threats. Imagining oneself in a painful and potentially dangerous situation thus might have triggered a stronger fearful and/or aversive response than imagining someone else in the same situation.\n\nBatson's most famous contribution to the psychology of religion is his argument that the traditional distinction made by Gordon Allport (Allport & Ross, 1967) between intrinsic and extrinsic religious orientations does not exhaust all possible religious orientations; rather, he believes it is important to refer to what he calls Quest, a form of religiosity that views questions and their answers as of equal importance (Batson & Schoenrade, 1991a; 1991b). This view has been controversial, and critics have questioned whether Quest really correlates with any other variable germane to religiosity. Batson has also written about religious experiences, defending a four-stage model based on Graham Wallas's four-stage model of problem-solving in the psychology of creativity (Batson, Schoenrade & Ventis, 1993).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20733310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20733310", "title": "Erondu–Cymet syndrome", "text": "Erondu–Cymet syndrome\n\nErondu–Cymet syndrome is a syndrome caused by a translocation on the 21st chromosome. The genetic karyotype for people with this condition is 46, XY, inv(21)(q11.2q22.1). Findings in these patients include hypotension, hypoxemia, seizures, and impairment of cognitive ability. Patients with this condition may have persistent left superior vena cava that drains into the left atrium, as well as pulmonary arteriovenous malformations. Erondu–Cymet syndrome was discovered in 2006 by Ugochi Erondu and Tyler Cymet.\n\n"}
{"id": "35282335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35282335", "title": "Establishment of the World Health Organization", "text": "Establishment of the World Health Organization\n\nThe Establishment of World Health Organization occurred on 7 April 1948, when its new constitution was ratified by a twenty-sixth nation. Its establishment followed a period of discussions and consultation following World War II and the formation of the United Nations, of which it formed part.\n\nAn international sanitary conference was held in Venice in 1892, prompted in part by the spread of Asiatic cholera earlier in that century. The first international organization to cover this area was the Pan-American Sanitary Bureau in 1902, followed by the \"Office International d'Hygiène Publique\" in Paris in 1909. The League of Nations Health Organization was established following the First World War inside the League of Nations framework, although it did not subsume other health organizations. These efforts were hampered by the Second World War, during which UNRRA also played a role in international health initiatives.\n\nDuring the United Nations Conference on International Organization, references to health had been incorporated into the United Nations Charter at the request of Brazil. It similarly passed a declaration that an international health body would be set up, co-authored by Brazil and China. The Indian politician Jawaharlal Nehru also gave his opinion in favour of starting WHO.\n\nIn February 1946, the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations helped draft the constitution of the new body. The draft constitution began to be signed by representative of 61 countries in June 1946, to come into force when ratified by 26 countries. Until that happened, an Interim Commission of 18 countries would prepare. The use of the word \"world\", rather than \"international\", emphasised the truly global nature of what the organization was seeking to achieve. The constitution of WHO was developed from four documents, submitted by the French, British, United States and Yugoslav governments. There was a common consensus that membership should not be limited to members of the United Nations and to this effect other countries were allowed to send observers to the drafting process. The International Health Conference met between 19 June and 22 July 1946, attended by representatives of all 51 members of the UN, 13 non-member countries, 3 Allied Commission and 10 international organizations. Dr. Thomas Parran served as president of the conference. The two most discussed issues were the role of the Soviet Union (which accepted a place) and the integration of other international organizations, which was agreed and would be managed. The constitution of the World Health Organization had been signed by all 61 countries by 22 July 1946, which an article in \"Science\" described as \"an historic day\". It thus became the first specialised agency of the United Nations to which every member subscribed. Its constitution formally came into force on the first World Health Day on 7 April 1948, when it was ratified by the 26th member state. The transfer was authorized by a Resolution of the General Assembly. The \"Office International d'Hygiène Publique\" was incorporated into the Interim Commission of the World Health Organization on 1 January 1947.\n\nThe first meeting World Health Assembly finished on 24 July 1948, having secured a budget of US$5 million (then GBP£1,250,000) for the 1949 year. Dr. Andrija Stampar was the Assembly's first president, and Dr. G. Brock Chisholm was appointed Director-General of WHO, having severed as Executive Secretary during the planning stages. Its first priorities were malaria, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted infections, maternal and child health, nutrition and environmental hygiene. Its first legislative act was concerning the compilation of accurate statistics on the spread and morbidity of disease. It pushed quickly to establish five regional offices to complement is central staff in Geneva, Switzerland. The logo of the World Health Organization features the Rod of Asclepius as a symbol for healing.\n"}
{"id": "16868539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16868539", "title": "Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products", "text": "Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products\n\nThe Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (FAMHP) of Belgium is responsible for the approval and registration of new medication in Belgium and for pharmacovigilance. Xavier De Cuyper is General Administrator of the agency.\n\nThe Dutch name is \"Federaal Agentschap voor Geneesmiddelen en Gezondheidsproducten\" (FAGG) and in French it is called \"Agence Fédérale des Médicaments et des Produits de Santé\" (AFMPS).\n\nThe agency succeeded the \"Directoraat-generaal Geneesmiddelen / Direction Générale des Médicaments\" of the Federal Public Service Health as the new Competent Authority on 1 January 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48905492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48905492", "title": "Frank A. Gough", "text": "Frank A. Gough\n\nFrank A. Gough (June 28, 1872 – August 15, 1938) was an American Orthodontist who graduated from Angle School of Orthodontia. He was the first person to open an Orthodontic practice in the borough of Brooklyn.\n\nHe was born in 1872 in North East, Pennsylvania. He initially was interested in working in civil service but later became interested in dentistry. He attended New York University College of Dentistry and obtained his dental degree in 1896. He was the 4th dentist ever to get a licence to practice Dentistry in the State of New York. Around 1900 he became interested in Orthodontics and applied to Angle School of Orthodontia in St. Louis. He eventually attended the school with his classmates Lloyd Steel Lourie, Herbert A. Pullen and Richard Summa. After his orthodontic course, Dr. Gough stayed in Hornellsville, Pennsylvania to assist a dentist for some time. He then moved to Brooklyn where he started his orthodontic practice in an office of his home. He was the first person to open a practice of Orthodontics in Brooklyn. He practiced here for next 30 years.\n\nHe was also a Fellow of American College of Dentists and Edward H. Angle Society of Orthodontists. In 1927, Dr. Gough joined Brooklyn Rotary Club and he became the treasurer, Vice-President, and President in 1926. He was also a member of New York State Crippled Children's Society and New York Mausoleum Association.\n\nDr. Gough was married to Allie B. Ellsworth who died in 1937. After that incident, Dr. Gough suffered a coronary thrombosis and gave up his practice and his organization activities. He then returned to his home in North East, Pennsylvania and eventually died in 1938. They had two daughters: Dr. Helen Gough who practiced in Brooklyn as an Orthodontist and Mrs. Charles Gough who lived in New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "54026663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54026663", "title": "Global Accessibility Awareness Day", "text": "Global Accessibility Awareness Day\n\nGlobal Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) is an awareness day focusing on digital access and inclusion for the more than one billion people with disabilities and impairments. It is marked annually on the third Thursday of May. The next GAAD is Thursday, May 16, 2019.\n\nIn 2018, in addition to a number of virtual events marking GAAD, there were events open to the public in at least nineteen countries on six continents.\n\nAccording to the Global Accessibility Awareness Day website, \"The purpose of GAAD is to get everyone talking, thinking and learning about digital (web, software, mobile, etc.) access/inclusion and people with different disabilities.\" Local Global Accessibility Awareness Day events sometimes showcase how people with disabilities use the web and digital products using assistive technologies, or assist people creating technology products in taking into consideration the needs of certain disabilities.\n\nGlobal Accessibility Awareness Day launched in May 2012. It was inspired by a blog post by Los Angeles-based web developer Joe Devon. Devon worked with Jennison Asuncion, an accessibility professional from Toronto, to co-found GAAD.\n\nExamples of local Global Accessibility Awareness Day events include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44289210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44289210", "title": "Globe rupture", "text": "Globe rupture\n\nGlobe rupture is an ophthalmologic condition when the integrity of the outer membranes of the eye are disrupted by blunt or penetrating trauma, usually resulting from a full-thickness injury to the cornea or sclera. It may also result from damage caused by chemicals such as strong acids (Hydrochloric acid, Sulfuric acid, Hydrofluoric acid etc.) or industrial chemicals such as Lewisite. \n\nDuring a globe rupture, the outer membranes of the eye are completely or partially compromised, and the vitreous and/or aqueous humour drain through the site of the rupture, causing the eye to 'deflate'. \n\nIf not treated swiftly, severe damage can result. In many cases, globe ruptures are untreatable without enucleating the affected eye socket and replacing the eye with an ocular prosthesis. However, with modern diagnostic techniques, surgical approaches, and rehabilitation, in many cases eyes can be salvaged with retention of vision.\n"}
{"id": "19022675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19022675", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Laos", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Laos\n\nSince the first HIV/AIDS case in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (PDR) was identified in 1990, the number of infections has continued to grow. In 2005, UNAIDS estimated that 3,700 people in Lao PDR were living with HIV.\n\nLao PDR’s currently faces a concentrated epidemic with an adult HIV prevalence of 0.1 percent. The low HIV prevalence does not necessarily indicate low risk. Moreover, the HIV-prevalence rate is increasing. Because of its geographical location in the heart of the Mekong region, injecting drug use, and unsafe sexual practices, Lao PDR is in danger of an expanded epidemic. Nearly 5 percent of injecting drug users (IDUs) were found to be HIV-positive in 2005. Although only 0 to 1.1 percent of sex workers were HIV-infected in 2000, a 2004 survey of the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) among service women found that chlamydia/gonorrhea prevalence was 45 percent in the capital Vientiane, 43.6 percent in the border province of Bokeo, and 27.9 percent in the southern province of Champasak, indicating the vulnerability of these women to HIV.\n\nLao PDR is undergoing rapid socioeconomic changes, including increased international tourism, leading to sexual behaviors that may place some Laotians at increased risk for HIV infection. For instance, a report cited by UNAIDS found increasing sexual activity among young men in Vientiane in 2004, nearly 60 percent of whom reported having multiple partners in the first six months of the year and more than one-third of whom reported paying for sex. Many of Lao PDR’s men who have sex with men (MSM) also report having sex with women. Women are considered to be particularly vulnerable to HIV/AIDS because of their low literacy, education and health status. Women whose husbands have multiple sex partners and visit sex workers are particularly vulnerable.\n\nCompounding Lao PDR’s vulnerability to an expanding HIV epidemic is a low level of knowledge about the disease among the general population. According to one study reported in the World Bank-sponsored Lao PDR Gender Profile, 23 percent of respondents did not know that HIV was transmissible by blood, and more than half did not know that it could be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Implementing programs to increase knowledge and awareness is difficult in Lao PDR because the country is home to 47 different ethnic groups with multiple native languages and a variety of cultures.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, Lao PDR had 69 new tuberculosis (TB) cases per 100,000 people in 2005, one of the highest incidence rates in the region. Although HIV-TB co-infection is relatively low, with only 0.7 percent of new TB cases occurring among HIV-infected individuals, the country is in danger of a combined epidemic. HIV-TB co-infection poses a challenge to providing treatment and care for both diseases.\n\nThe Lao PDR government initiated its response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in 1992, when participants at an AIDS conference agreed that the spread of HIV was inevitable and would likely occur via young male urban or international migrants who returned to their villages and via women who became commercial sex workers out of economic necessity. The National Committee for the Control of AIDS is in charge of policy matters related to HIV/AIDS prevention and control. The committee consists of 14 members from 12 government ministries. The National Action Plan on HIV/AIDS/STIs for 2006–2010 focuses on achieving universal access to treatment, care and support.\n\nThe National Socioeconomic Development Plan for 2006–2010 addresses HIV/AIDS, indicating the government’s commitment to expanding the national response. Since implementing the plan, national authorities have worked to target people most likely to be exposed to the disease; scale up prevention, treatment, care and support; and improve strategic information. Activities to fight HIV/AIDS, including Behavior Change Communication (BCC) interventions, peer education, life skills training, and a 100 percent condom use program, have been integrated into Lao PDR’s general development programs. The Ministry of Education is promoting HIV/AIDS and sex education by training school principals and teachers in these areas, so they can transfer their knowledge to students. The objective is to reduce risky sexual behavior to help keep down the number of new HIV infections in the country. According to UNAIDS, as of 2005, 49 percent of HIV-infected women and men were receiving antiretroviral therapy.\n\nLao PDR receives support in its response to HIV/AIDS from various international donors, including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The Global Fund approved a sixth-round grant from Lao PDR to scale up HIV/AIDS prevention, care, and treatment in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "37509221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37509221", "title": "Hapnes Boman Skeie syndrome", "text": "Hapnes Boman Skeie syndrome\n\nHapnes Boman Skeie syndrome is a rare genetic disorder first described by Sveln Hapnes et al. in 1980. It is characterized by subcutaneous angiolipomas around the wrists, knees, and ankles. It is also known as \"anomalous insertion of extensor tendons of fingers\", a name derived from the condition that the tendons of the fingers are attached in such a way that the fingers cannot open or close normally. Though the tumors extend deeply into the muscle tissue, joints, and tendons, the tumors did not invade these structures.\n"}
{"id": "220746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220746", "title": "He Xiangu", "text": "He Xiangu\n\nHe Xiangu, birth name He Qiong, is a Chinese mythological figure and one of the Eight Immortals in the Taoist pantheon. While she is often seen as the only female among the Eight Immortals, the sex of Lan Caihe, another of the Eight Immortals, is somewhat ambiguous. He Xiangu is believed to have lived in the Tang dynasty and was born in either Lingling District, Yongzhou, Hunan or Zengcheng District, Guangzhou, Guangdong.\n\nAccording to the \"Xian Fo Qi Zong\" (仙佛奇蹤), He Xiangu was the daughter of He Tai (何泰), a man from Zengcheng, Guangdong. At birth, she had six long hairs on the crown of her head. When she was about 14 or 15, a divine personage appeared to her in a dream and instructed her to eat powdered mica so that her body might become etherealised and immune from death. She did as instructed, vowed to remain a virgin, and gradually decreased her food intake.\n\nWu Zetian once sent a messenger to summon He Xiangu to the imperial court, but she disappeared on the way there.\n\nOne day during the Jinglong era (707–710 CE) in the reign of Emperor Zhongzong of the Tang dynasty, she ascended to Heaven in broad daylight and became an immortal.\n\nHe Xiangu's lotus flower improves one's health, mental and physical. She is depicted holding a lotus flower, and sometimes with the musical instrument known as \"sheng\", or a \"fenghuang\" to accompany her. She may also carry a bamboo ladle or fly-whisk.\n\nIn the television show \"Jackie Chan Adventures\", He Xiangu was shown to be the Immortal who sealed away Tso Lan, The Moon Demon.\n"}
{"id": "19503508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19503508", "title": "Hospital Employees' Union", "text": "Hospital Employees' Union\n\nThe Hospital Employees' Union (HEU), founded in 1944 at Vancouver General Hospital, is now the oldest and largest trade union for hospital workers and health care specialists in British Columbia. The HEU represents 46,000 members across the public, non-profit and private health sectors. It is also a member in the British Columbia Federation of Labour and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE).\n\nIn 2004, the HEU was judged to have conducted an illegal strike in BC hospitals. Although members worked fewer hours for higher rates than the national average, and had generous vacation benefits (five weeks after 10 years of employment and up to nine weeks after 25 years), there was dispute with the provincial government for privatization of in-house support services in BC health authorities. The Hospital Employees' Union eventually won a related Supreme Court of Canada case in 2007. The court's decision established that union bargaining is a constitutional right. The court win led to a negotiated settlement with the provincial government which paid up to $85 million to former HEU members who lost their jobs.\n\nJudy Darcy, elected as provincial Member of the Legislative Assembly for New Westminster in 2013, had been HEU's business manager from 2005 to 2011. Darcy was appointed Opposition Health Critic by the British Columbia New Democratic Party.\n\nIn 2015, the HEU advocated against proposed privatization of laundry services by Interior Health Authority.\n\nHEU also applied in 2015 to be an intervenor in a Supreme Court of Canada case involving the British Columbia Teachers' Federation.\n\n"}
{"id": "23487367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23487367", "title": "Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology", "text": "Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology\n\nCSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) is a scientific research institute devoted primarily to biological research. It is a part of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), India.\n\nThe institute was founded in 1977 as the Center for Biochemical Technology with a primary focus on biochemical research, but has since shifted its research focus to integrative biology.\n\nThe Institute has two campuses in Delhi. The North Campus is older of the two campuses and is in the campus of Delhi University, on Mall Road opposite to Jubilee Hall. \nThe new campus is in South Delhi, on Mathura Road at Sukhdev Vihar. \n\nIGIB was established in 1977 as the Center for Biochemical Technology (CBT). The Functional Genomics Unit was established in 1998 with the focus shifting from chemical to genomics research. The institute was renamed \"Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology\" in 2002.\n\nIn 2009, a team at the institute sequenced the genome of the wild-type zebrafish, with about 1.7 billion base pairs. This made the fish, which is native to the Himalayan region, the first vertebrate to have its whole genome sequenced in India, as previously Indian scientists had only sequenced bacteria and plant genomes.\n\nIn December 2009, scientists at IGIB performed the first re-sequencing of a human genome in India. The Institute also collaborated on decoding the first Sri Lankan genome and Malayasian genome. The Institute is also a member of the Open Personal Genomics Consortium.\n\nThe institute has initiated a unique programme to use cutting edge genomic technologies to understand Rare genetic diseases in India and pioneering the application of genomics for Precision Medicine in clinics. One of the programmes which has been initiated on this front is Genomics for Understanding Rare Disease, India Alliance Network (GUaRDIAN). GUaRDIAN is a large-scale collaborative network of clinicians from around India trying to use genomics in clinical practice, with the focussed aim to understand genetic structure of rare genetic diseases in India.\n\nThe consortium aims at using cutting edge genomics technology to enable identification of genetic variations in diseases and enable clinicians arrive at precise diagnosis for rare genetic disease. Apart from working closely with clinicians, the consortium aims to foster education, awareness and the widespread adoption of genomic technology in clinical settings, in addition to creating and disseminating the highest standards of genomic data generation and interpretation in India.\n\nIn the few years, it has been able to work closely with clinicians in the network to be able to offer proof of principles for the application of Genomics for Precision Medicine. A comprehensive programme for patient referral is also functional.\n\nThe main IGIB campus is located at Mall Road, New Delhi near Delhi University North Campus. IGIB's alliance with the Biotech/Pharmaceuticals has led to its growth and setting up of two extension centers - one at South Delhi (IGIB Annex at TCGA, Okhla) and the other at Western Delhi at Naraina.\n\nIGIB was a co-host of the 13th meeting of the Human Genome Organization (HUGO) in 2008, held at Hyderabad International Convention Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53265089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53265089", "title": "Integrated Movement Therapy", "text": "Integrated Movement Therapy\n\nIntegrated Movement Therapy (IMT) has several elements in common with Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, including a focus on changing thoughts to change behaviours, and an emphasis on social learning theory. It also shares elements with Dialectical Behavioural Therapy, which includes an exploration of Eastern contemplative traditions. However, IMT is most aligned with Integrated Psychotherapy, in which the inherent value of each person, as well as their multiple dimensions (including physical body, energy, emotions and spiritual connection), is the foundation of the therapy. IMT uses yoga’s philosophical, physical and spiritual framework in conjunction with conventional neurophysiological perspectives to address issues including depression and anxiety to degenerative conditions and life-threatening illness.\n\nIntegrated Movement Therapy was developed in the late 1990s by Molly Lannon Kenny, MS-CCC, a speech and language pathologist and yoga educator, for children with developmental challenges.\n\nLannon Kenny made several crucial observations about her clients in the clinical setting that led to the development of IMT, including the relationship between self-esteem and learning and the relationship between movement and learning readiness and retention. She noted a significant increase in communication skills when her clients were moving, as evidenced in co-treatment with occupational and physical therapists. \n\nLannon Kenny published her first scholarly article in the \"International Journal of Yoga Therapy\" in 2002,< in which she described IMT as an effective intervention for Autism spectrum and related disorders, relating each of the core principles of IMT to a particular aspect of Autism.\n"}
{"id": "202522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202522", "title": "Ionizing radiation", "text": "Ionizing radiation\n\nIonizing radiation (ionising radiation) is radiation that carries enough energy to knock electrons from atoms or molecules, thereby ionizing them. Ionizing radiation is made up of energetic subatomic particles, ions or atoms moving at high speeds (usually greater than 1% of the speed of light), and electromagnetic waves on the high-energy end of the electromagnetic spectrum.\n\nGamma rays, X-rays, and the higher ultraviolet part of the electromagnetic spectrum are ionizing, whereas the lower ultraviolet part of the electromagnetic spectrum and all the spectrum below UV, including visible light (including nearly all types of laser light), infrared, microwaves, and radio waves are considered \"non-ionizing radiation\". The boundary between ionizing and non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation that occurs in the ultraviolet is not sharply defined, since different molecules and atoms ionize at different energies. Conventional definition places the boundary at a photon energy between 10 eV and 33 eV in the ultraviolet (see definition boundary section below).\n\nTypical ionizing subatomic particles from radioactivity include alpha particles, beta particles and neutrons. Almost all products of radioactive decay are ionizing because the energy of radioactive decay is typically far higher than that required to ionize. Other subatomic ionizing particles which occur naturally are muons, mesons, positrons, and other particles that constitute the secondary cosmic rays that are produced after primary cosmic rays interact with Earth's atmosphere. Cosmic rays are generated by stars and certain celestial events such as supernova explosions. Cosmic rays may also produce radioisotopes on Earth (for example, carbon-14), which in turn decay and produce ionizing radiation. Cosmic rays and the decay of radioactive isotopes are the primary sources of natural ionizing radiation on Earth referred to as background radiation. Ionizing radiation can also be generated artificially by X-ray tubes, particle accelerators, and any of the various methods that produce radioisotopes artificially.\n\nIonizing radiation is not detectable by human senses, so radiation detection instruments such as Geiger counters must be used to indicate its presence and measure it. However, high intensities can cause emission of visible light upon interaction with matter, such as in Cherenkov radiation and radioluminescence. Ionizing radiation is used in a wide variety of fields such as medicine, nuclear power, research, manufacturing, construction, and many other areas, but presents a health hazard if proper measures against undesired exposure aren't followed. Exposure to ionizing radiation causes damage to living tissue, and can result in radiation burns, cell damage, radiation sickness, cancer, and death.\n\nIonizing radiation is categorized by the nature of the particles or electromagnetic waves that create the ionizing effect. These have different ionization mechanisms, and may be grouped as directly or indirectly ionizing.\n\nAny charged massive particle can ionize atoms directly by fundamental interaction through the Coulomb force if it carries sufficient kinetic energy. This includes atomic nuclei, electrons, muons, charged pions, protons, and energetic charged nuclei stripped of their electrons. When moving at relativistic speeds these particles have enough kinetic energy to be ionizing, but relativistic speeds are not required. For example, a typical alpha particle is ionizing, but moves at about 5% c, and an electron with 33 eV (enough to ionize) moves at about 1% c.\n\nThe first two ionizing sources to be recognized were given special names used today: Helium nuclei ejected from atomic nuclei are called alpha particles, and electrons ejected usually (but not always) at relativistic speeds, are called beta particles.\n\nNatural cosmic rays are made up primarily of relativistic protons but also include heavier atomic nuclei like helium ions and HZE ions. In the atmosphere such particles are often stopped by air molecules, and this produces short-lived charged pions, which soon decay to muons, a primary type of cosmic ray radiation that reaches the ground (and also penetrates it to some extent). Pions can also be produced in large amounts in particle accelerators.\n\nAlpha particles consist of two protons and two neutrons bound together into a particle identical to a helium nucleus. Alpha particle emissions are generally produced in the process of alpha decay, but may also be produced in other ways. Alpha particles are named after the first letter in the Greek alphabet, α. The symbol for the alpha particle is α or α. Because they are identical to helium nuclei, they are also sometimes written as or indicating a Helium ion with a +2 charge (missing its two electrons). If the ion gains electrons from its environment, the alpha particle can be written as a normal (electrically neutral) helium atom .\n\nAlpha particles are a hugely ionizing form of particle radiation. When they result from radioactive alpha decay they have low penetration depth. In this case they can be absorbed by a few centimeters of air, or by the skin. More powerful, long range alpha particles from ternary fission are three times as energetic, and penetrate proportionately farther in air. The helium nuclei that form 10-12% of cosmic rays, are also usually of much higher energy than those produced by nuclear decay processes, and when encountered in space, are thus able to traverse the human body and dense shielding. However, this type of radiation is significantly attenuated by the Earth's atmosphere, which is a radiation shield equivalent to about 10 meters of water.\n\nBeta particles are high-energy, high-speed electrons or positrons emitted by certain types of radioactive nuclei, such as potassium-40. The production of beta particles is termed beta decay. They are designated by the Greek letter beta (β).\nThere are two forms of beta decay, β and β, which respectively give rise to the electron and the positron.\n\nWhen something is said to have radioactive contamination, it often means that there are beta particles being emitted from its surface, detectable with a Geiger counter or other radiation detector. When brought into proximity to the beta emitter, the detector will indicate a dramatic increase in radioactivity. When the detector probe is covered with a shield to block the beta rays, the indication will be reduced dramatically.\n\nHigh-energy beta particles may produce X-rays known as bremsstrahlung (\"braking radiation\") or secondary electrons (delta ray) as they pass through matter. Both of these can cause an indirect ionization effect.\n\nBremsstrahlung is of concern when shielding beta emitters, as the interaction of beta particles with the shielding material produces Bremsstrahlung. This effect is greater with material of high atomic numbers, so material with low atomic numbers is used for beta source shielding.\n\nThe positron or antielectron is the antiparticle or the antimatter counterpart of the electron. When a low-energy positron collides with a low-energy electron, annihilation occurs, resulting in their conversion into the energy of two or more gamma ray photons (see electron–positron annihilation).\n\nPositrons may be generated by positron emission nuclear decay (through weak interactions), or by pair production from a sufficiently energetic photon. Positrons are common artificial sources of ionizing radiation used in medical positron emission tomography (PET) scans.\n\nAs positrons are positively charged particles they can also directly ionize an atom through Coulomb interactions.\n\nCharged nuclei are characteristic of galactic cosmic rays and solar particle events and except for alpha particles (charged helium nuclei) have no natural sources on the earth. In space, however, very high energy protons, helium nuclei, and HZE ions can be initially stopped by relatively thin layers of shielding, clothes, or skin. However, the resulting interaction will generate secondary radiation and cause cascading biological effects. If just one atom of tissue is displaced by an energetic proton, for example, the collision will cause further interactions in the body. This is called \"linear energy transfer\" (LET), which utilizes elastic scattering.\n\nLET can be visualized as a billiard ball hitting another in the manner of the conservation of momentum, sending both away with the energy of the first ball divided between the two unequally. When a charged nucleus strikes a relatively slow-moving nucleus of an object in space, LET occurs and neutrons, alpha particles, low-energy protons, and other nuclei will be released by the collisions and contribute to the total absorbed dose of tissue.<ref name=\"NASA/TP-1999-209320\"> Kim, Myung-Hee Y.; Wilson, John W.; Cucinotta, Francis A.; Simonsen, Lisa C.; Atwell, William; Badavi, Francis F.; Miller, Jack, NASA Johnson Space Center; Langley Research Center, May 1999.</ref>\n\nIndirect ionizing radiation is electrically neutral and therefore does not interact strongly with matter. The bulk of the ionization effects are due to secondary ionizations.\n\nAn example of indirectly ionizing radiation is neutron radiation.\n\nEven though photons are electrically neutral, they can ionize atoms directly through the photoelectric effect and the Compton effect. Either of those interactions will cause the ejection of an electron from an atom at relativistic speeds, turning that electron into a beta particle (secondary beta particle) that will ionize many other atoms. Since most of the affected atoms are ionized directly by the secondary beta particles, photons are called indirectly ionizing radiation.\n\nPhoton radiation is called gamma rays if produced by a nuclear reaction, subatomic particle decay, or radioactive decay within the nucleus. It is otherwise called x-rays if produced outside the nucleus. The generic term photon is therefore used to describe both.\n\nX-rays normally have a lower energy than gamma rays, and an older convention was to define the boundary as a wavelength of 10 m or a photon energy of 100 keV. That threshold was driven by limitations of older X-ray tubes and low awareness of isomeric transitions. Modern technologies and discoveries have resulted in an overlap between X-ray and gamma energies. In many fields they are functionally identical, differing for terrestrial studies only in origin of the radiation. In astronomy, however, where radiation origin often cannot be reliably determined, the old energy division has been preserved, with X-rays defined as being between about 120 eV and 120 keV, and gamma rays as being of any energy above 100 to 120 keV, regardless of source. Most astronomical \"gamma-ray astronomy\" are known \"not\" to originate in nuclear radioactive processes but, rather, result from processes like those that produce astronomical X-rays, except driven by much more energetic electrons.\n\nPhotoelectric absorption is the dominant mechanism in organic materials for photon energies below 100 keV, typical of classical X-ray tube originated X-rays. At energies beyond 100 keV, photons ionize matter increasingly through the Compton effect, and then indirectly through pair production at energies beyond 5 MeV. The accompanying interaction diagram shows two Compton scatterings happening sequentially. In every scattering event, the gamma ray transfers energy to an electron, and it continues on its path in a different direction and with reduced energy.\n\nThe lowest ionization energy of any element is 3.89 eV, for caesium. However, US Federal Communications Commission material defines ionizing radiation as that with a photon energy greater than 10 eV (equivalent to a far ultraviolet wavelength of 124 nanometers). Roughly, this corresponds to both the first ionization energy of oxygen, and the ionization energy of hydrogen, both about 14 eV. In some Environmental Protection Agency references, the ionization of a typical water molecule at an energy of 33 eV is referenced as the appropriate biological threshold for ionizing radiation: this value represents the so-called \"W-value\", the colloquial name for the ICRU's mean energy expended in a gas per ion pair formed, which combines ionization energy plus the energy lost to other processes such as excitation. At 38 nanometers wavelength for electromagnetic radiation, 33 eV is close to the energy at the conventional 10 nm wavelength transition between extreme ultraviolet and X-ray radiation, which occurs at about 125 eV. Thus, X-ray radiation is always ionizing, but only extreme-ultraviolet radiation can be considered ionizing under all definitions.\n\nAs noted, the biological effect of ionizing radiation on cells somewhat resembles that of a broader spectrum of molecularly damaging radiation, which overlaps ionizing radiation and extends beyond, to somewhat lower energies into all regions of UV and sometimes visible light in some systems (such as photosynthetic systems in leaves). Although DNA is always susceptible to damage by ionizing radiation, the DNA molecule may also be damaged by radiation with enough energy to excite certain molecular bonds to form thymine dimers. This energy may be less than ionizing, but near to it. A good example is ultraviolet spectrum energy which begins at about 3.1 eV (400 nm) at close to the same energy level which can cause sunburn to unprotected skin, as a result of photoreactions in collagen and (in the UV-B range) also damage in DNA (for example, pyrimidine dimers). Thus, the mid and lower ultraviolet electromagnetic spectrum is damaging to biological tissues as a result of electronic excitation in molecules which falls short of ionization, but produces similar non-thermal effects. To some extent, visible light and also ultraviolet A (UVA) which is closest to visible energies, have been proven to result in formation of reactive oxygen species in skin, which cause indirect damage since these are electronically excited molecules which can inflict reactive damage, although they do not cause sunburn (erythema). Like ionization-damage, all these effects in skin are beyond those produced by simple thermal effects.\n\nNeutrons have zero electrical charge and thus often do not \"directly\" cause ionization in a single step or interaction with matter. However, fast neutrons will interact with the protons in hydrogen via LET, and this mechanism scatters the nuclei of the materials in the target area, causing direct ionization of the hydrogen atoms. When neutrons strike the hydrogen nuclei, proton radiation (fast protons) results. These protons are themselves ionizing because they are of high energy, are charged, and interact with the electrons in matter.\n\nNeutrons that strike other nuclei besides hydrogen will transfer less energy to the other particle if LET does occur. But, for many nuclei struck by neutrons, inelastic scattering occurs. Whether elastic or inelastic scatter occurs is dependent on the speed of the neutron, whether fast or thermal or somewhere in between. It is also dependent on the nuclei it strikes and its neutron cross section.\n\nIn inelastic scattering, neutrons are readily absorbed in a process called neutron capture and attributes to the neutron activation of the nucleus. Neutron interactions with most types of matter in this manner usually produce radioactive nuclei. The abundant oxygen-16 nucleus, for example, undergoes neutron activation, rapidly decays by a proton emission forming nitrogen-16, which decays to oxygen-16. The short-lived nitrogen-16 decay emits a powerful beta ray. This process can be written as:\n\nO (n,p) N (fast neutron capture possible with >11 MeV neutron)\nN → O + β (Decay t = 7.13 s)\nThis high-energy β further interacts rapidly with other nuclei, emitting high-energy γ via Bremsstrahlung\n\nWhile not a favorable reaction, the O (n,p) N reaction is a major source of X-rays emitted from the cooling water of a pressurized water reactor and contributes enormously to the radiation generated by a water-cooled nuclear reactor while operating.\n\nFor the best shielding of neutrons, hydrocarbons that have an abundance of hydrogen are used.\n\nIn fissile materials, secondary neutrons may produce nuclear chain reactions, causing a larger amount of ionization from the daughter products of fission.\n\nOutside the nucleus, free neutrons are unstable and have a mean lifetime of 14 minutes, 42 seconds. Free neutrons decay by emission of an electron and an electron antineutrino to become a proton, a process known as beta decay:\n\nIn the adjacent diagram, a neutron collides with a proton of the target material, and then becomes a fast recoil proton that ionizes in turn. At the end of its path, the neutron is captured by a nucleus in an (n,γ)-reaction that leads to the emission of a neutron capture photon. Such photons always have enough energy to qualify as ionizing radiation.\n\nNeutron radiation, alpha radiation, and extremely energetic gamma (> ~20 MeV) can cause nuclear transmutation and induced radioactivity. The relevant mechanisms are neutron activation, alpha absorption, and photodisintegration. A large enough number of transmutations can change macroscopic properties and cause targets to become radioactive themselves, even after the original source is removed.\n\nIonization of molecules can lead to radiolysis (breaking chemical bonds), and formation of highly reactive free radicals. These free radicals may then react chemically with neighbouring materials even after the original radiation has stopped. (e.g., ozone cracking of polymers by ozone formed by ionization of air). Ionizing radiation can disrupt crystal lattices in metals, causing them to become amorphous, with consequent swelling, material creep, and embrittlement. Ionizing radiation can also accelerate existing chemical reactions such as polymerization and corrosion, by contributing to the activation energy required for the reaction. Optical materials darken under the effect of ionizing radiation.\n\nHigh-intensity ionizing radiation in air can produce a visible ionized air glow of telltale bluish-purplish color. The glow can be observed, e.g., during criticality accidents, around mushroom clouds shortly after a nuclear explosion, or inside of a damaged nuclear reactor like during the Chernobyl disaster.\n\nMonatomic fluids, e.g. molten sodium, have no chemical bonds to break and no crystal lattice to disturb, so they are immune to the chemical effects of ionizing radiation. Simple diatomic compounds with very negative enthalpy of formation, such as hydrogen fluoride will reform rapidly and spontaneously after ionization.\n\nIonization of materials temporarily increases their conductivity, potentially permitting damaging current levels. This is a particular hazard in semiconductor microelectronics employed in electronic equipment, with subsequent currents introducing operation errors or even permanently damaging the devices. Devices intended for high radiation environments such as the nuclear industry and extra atmospheric (space) applications may be made \"radiation hard\" to resist such effects through design, material selection, and fabrication methods.\n\nProton radiation found in space can also cause single-event upsets in digital circuits.\n\nThe electrical effects of ionizing radiation are exploited in gas-filled radiation detectors, e.g. the Geiger-Muller counter or the ion chamber.\n\nIn general, ionizing radiation is harmful and potentially lethal to living beings but some types have medical applications in radiation therapy for the treatment of cancer and thyrotoxicosis.\n\nMost adverse health effects of exposure to ionizing radiation may be grouped in two general categories:\n\nThe most common impact is stochastic induction of cancer with a latent period of years or decades after exposure. For example, ionizing radiation is the sole cause of chronic myelogenous leukemia. The mechanism by which this occurs is well understood, but quantitative models predicting the level of risk remain controversial. The most widely accepted model posits that the incidence of cancers due to ionizing radiation increases linearly with effective radiation dose at a rate of 5.5% per sievert. If this linear model is correct, then natural background radiation is the most hazardous source of radiation to general public health, followed by medical imaging as a close second. Other stochastic effects of ionizing radiation are teratogenesis, cognitive decline, and heart disease.\n\nThe table below shows radiation and dose quantities in SI and non-SI units. The relationships of the ICRP dose quantities are shown in the accompanying diagram.\n\nIonizing radiation has many industrial, military, and medical uses. Its usefulness must be balanced with its hazards, a compromise that has shifted over time. For example, at one time, assistants in shoe shops used X-rays to check a child's shoe size, but this practice was halted when the risks of ionizing radiation were better understood.\n\nNeutron radiation is essential to the working of nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons. The penetrating power of x-ray, gamma, beta, and positron radiation is used for medical imaging, nondestructive testing, and a variety of industrial gauges. Radioactive tracers are used in medical and industrial applications, as well as biological and radiation chemistry. Alpha radiation is used in static eliminators and smoke detectors. The sterilizing effects of ionizing radiation are useful for cleaning medical instruments, food irradiation, and the sterile insect technique. Measurements of carbon-14, can be used to date the remains of long-dead organisms (such as wood that is thousands of years old).\n\nIonizing radiation is generated through nuclear reactions, nuclear decay, by very high temperature, or via acceleration of charged particles in electromagnetic fields. Natural sources include the sun, lightning and supernova explosions. Artificial sources include nuclear reactors, particle accelerators, and x-ray tubes.\n\nThe United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR) itemized types of human exposures.\n\nThe International Commission on Radiological Protection manages the International System of Radiological Protection, which sets recommended limits for dose uptake.\n\nBackground radiation comes from both natural and man-made sources.\n\nThe global average exposure of humans to ionizing radiation is about 3 mSv (0.3 rem) per year, 80% of which comes from nature. The remaining 20% results from exposure to man-made radiation sources, primarily from medical imaging. Average man-made exposure is much higher in developed countries, mostly due to CT scans and nuclear medicine.\n\nNatural background radiation comes from five primary sources: cosmic radiation, solar radiation, external terrestrial sources, radiation in the human body, and radon.\n\nThe background rate for natural radiation varies considerably with location, being as low as 1.5 mSv/a (1.5 mSv per year) in some areas and over 100 mSv/a in others. The highest level of purely natural radiation recorded on the Earth's surface is 90 µGy/h (0.8 Gy/a) on a Brazilian black beach composed of monazite. The highest background radiation in an inhabited area is found in Ramsar, primarily due to naturally radioactive limestone used as a building material. Some 2000 of the most exposed residents receive an average radiation dose of 10 mGy per year, (1 rad/yr) ten times more than the ICRP recommended limit for exposure to the public from artificial sources. Record levels were found in a house where the effective radiation dose due to external radiation was 135 mSv/a, (13.5 rem/yr) and the committed dose from radon was 640 mSv/a (64.0 rem/yr). This unique case is over 200 times higher than the world average background radiation. Despite the high levels of background radiation that the residents of Ramsar receive there is no compelling evidence that they experience a greater health risks. The ICRP recommendations are conservative limits and may represent an over representation of the actual health risk. Generally radiation safety organization recommend the most conservative limits assuming it is best to err on the side of caution. This level of caution is appropriate but should not be used to create fear about background radiation danger. Radiation danger from background radiation may be a serious threat but is more likely a small overall risk compared to all other factors in the environment.\n\nThe Earth, and all living things on it, are constantly bombarded by radiation from outside our solar system. This cosmic radiation consists of relativistic particles: positively charged nuclei (ions) from 1 amu protons (about 85% of it) to 26 amu iron nuclei and even beyond. (The high-atomic number particles are called HZE ions.) The energy of this radiation can far exceed that which humans can create, even in the largest particle accelerators (see ultra-high-energy cosmic ray). This radiation interacts in the atmosphere to create secondary radiation that rains down, including x-rays, muons, protons, antiprotons, alpha particles, pions, electrons, positrons, and neutrons.\n\nThe dose from cosmic radiation is largely from muons, neutrons, and electrons, with a dose rate that varies in different parts of the world and based largely on the geomagnetic field, altitude, and solar cycle. The cosmic-radiation dose rate on airplanes is so high that, according to the United Nations UNSCEAR 2000 Report (see links at bottom), airline flight crew workers receive more dose on average than any other worker, including those in nuclear power plants. Airline crews receive more cosmic rays if they routinely work flight routes that take them close to the North or South pole at high altitudes, where this type of radiation is maximal.\n\nCosmic rays also include high-energy gamma rays, which are far beyond the energies produced by solar or human sources.\n\nMost materials on Earth contain some radioactive atoms, even if in small quantities. Most of the dose received from these sources is from gamma-ray emitters in building materials, or rocks and soil when outside. The major radionuclides of concern for terrestrial radiation are isotopes of potassium, uranium, and thorium. Each of these sources has been decreasing in activity since the formation of the Earth.\n\nAll earthly materials that are the building-blocks of life contain a radioactive component. As humans, plants, and animals consume food, air, and water, an inventory of radioisotopes builds up within the organism (see banana equivalent dose). Some radionuclides, like potassium-40, emit a high-energy gamma ray that can be measured by sensitive electronic radiation measurement systems. These internal radiation sources contribute to an individual's total radiation dose from natural background radiation.\n\nAn important source of natural radiation is radon gas, which seeps continuously from bedrock but can, because of its high density, accumulate in poorly ventilated houses.\n\nRadon-222 is a gas produced by the decay of radium-226. Both are a part of the natural uranium decay chain. Uranium is found in soil throughout the world in varying concentrations. Among non-smokers, radon is the largest cause of lung cancer and, overall, the second-leading cause.\n\nThere are three standard ways to limit exposure:\n\nThese can all be applied to natural and man-made sources. For man-made sources the use of Containment is a major tool in reducing dose uptake and is effectively a combination of shielding and isolation from the open environment. Radioactive materials are confined in the smallest possible space and kept out of the environment such as in a hot cell (for radiation) or glove box (for contamination). Radioactive isotopes for medical use, for example, are dispensed in closed handling facilities, usually gloveboxes, while nuclear reactors operate within closed systems with multiple barriers that keep the radioactive materials contained. Work rooms, hot cells and gloveboxes have slightly reduced air pressures to prevent escape of airborne material to the open environment.\n\nIn nuclear conflicts or civil nuclear releases civil defense measures can help reduce exposure of populations by reducing ingestion of isotopes and occupational exposure . One is the issue of potassium iodide (KI) tablets, which blocks the uptake of radioactive iodine (one of the major radioisotope products of nuclear fission) into the human thyroid gland.\n\nOccupationally exposed individuals are controlled within the regulatory framework of the country they work in, and in accordance with any local nuclear licence constraints. These are usually based on the recommendations of the ICRP.\nThe International Commission on Radiological Protection recommends limiting artificial irradiation. For occupational exposure, the limit is 50 mSv in a single year with a maximum of 100 mSv in a consecutive five-year period.\n\nThe radiation exposure of these individuals is carefully monitored with the use of dosimeters and other radiological protection instruments which will measure radioactive particulate concentrations, area gamma dose readings and radioactive contamination. A legal record of dose is kept.\n\nExamples of activities where occupational exposure is a concern include:\n\nSome human-made radiation sources affect the body through direct radiation, known as effective dose (radiation) while others take the form of radioactive contamination and irradiate the body from within. The latter is known as committed dose.\n\nMedical procedures, such as diagnostic X-rays, nuclear medicine, and radiation therapy are by far the most significant source of human-made radiation exposure to the general public. Some of the major radionuclides used are I-131, Tc-99m, Co-60, Ir-192, and Cs-137. The public also is exposed to radiation from consumer products, such as tobacco (polonium-210), combustible fuels (gas, coal, etc.), televisions, luminous watches and dials (tritium), airport X-ray systems, smoke detectors (americium), electron tubes, and gas lantern mantles (thorium).\n\nOf lesser magnitude, members of the public are exposed to radiation from the nuclear fuel cycle, which includes the entire sequence from processing uranium to the disposal of the spent fuel. The effects of such exposure have not been reliably measured due to the extremely low doses involved. Opponents use a cancer per dose model to assert that such activities cause several hundred cases of cancer per year, an application of the widely accepted Linear no-threshold model (LNT).\n\nThe International Commission on Radiological Protection recommends limiting artificial irradiation to the public to an average of 1 mSv (0.001 Sv) of effective dose per year, not including medical and occupational exposures.\n\nIn a nuclear war, gamma rays from both the initial weapon explosion and fallout would be the sources of radiation exposure.\n\nMassive particles are a concern for astronauts outside the earth's magnetic field who would receive solar particles from solar proton events (SPE) and galactic cosmic rays from cosmic sources. These high-energy charged nuclei are blocked by Earth's magnetic field but pose a major health concern for astronauts traveling to the moon and to any distant location beyond the earth orbit. Highly charged HZE ions in particular are known to be extremely damaging, although protons make up the vast majority of galactic cosmic rays. Evidence indicates past SPE radiation levels that would have been lethal for unprotected astronauts.\n\nAir travel exposes people on aircraft to increased radiation from space as compared to sea level, including cosmic rays and from solar flare events. Software programs such as Epcard, CARI, SIEVERT, PCAIRE are attempts to simulate exposure by aircrews and passengers. An example of a measured dose (not simulated dose) is 6 μSv per hour from London Heathrow to Tokyo Narita on a high-latitude polar route. However, dosages can vary, such as during periods of high solar activity. The United States FAA requires airlines to provide flight crew with information about cosmic radiation, and an International Commission on Radiological Protection recommendation for the general public is no more than 1 mSv per year. In addition, many airlines do not allow pregnant flightcrew members, to comply with a European Directive. The FAA has a recommended limit of 1 mSv total for a pregnancy, and no more than 0.5 mSv per month. Information originally based on \"Fundamentals of Aerospace Medicine\" published in 2008.\n\nHazardous levels of ionizing radiation are signified by the trefoil sign on a yellow background. These are usually posted at the boundary of a radiation controlled area or in any place where radiation levels are significantly above background due to human intervention.\n\nThe red ionizing radiation warning symbol (ISO 21482) was launched in 2007, and is intended for IAEA Category 1, 2 and 3 sources defined as dangerous sources capable of death or serious injury, including food irradiators, teletherapy machines for cancer treatment and industrial radiography units. The symbol is to be placed on the device housing the source, as a warning not to dismantle the device or to get any closer. It will not be visible under normal use, only if someone attempts to disassemble the device. The symbol will not be located on building access doors, transportation packages or containers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2472390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472390", "title": "John Gottman", "text": "John Gottman\n\nJohn Mordecai Gottman (born April 26, 1942) is an American psychological researcher and clinician who did extensive work over four decades on divorce prediction and marital stability. He is also an award-winning speaker, author, and a professor emeritus in psychology. He is known for his work on marital stability and relationship analysis through scientific direct observations, many of which were published in peer-reviewed literature. The lessons derived from this work represent a partial basis for the relationship counseling movement that aims to improve relationship functioning and the avoidance of those behaviors shown by Gottman and other researchers to harm human relationships. His work has also had a major impact on the development of important concepts on social sequence analysis. Gottman is a professor emeritus of psychology at the University of Washington. Dr. John Gottman and Dr. Julie Schwartz Gottman co-founded and lead a relationship company and therapist training entity called The Gottman Institute.\n\nGottman was recognized in 2007 as one of the 10 most influential therapists of the past quarter century. \"Gottman's research showed that it wasn't only how couples fought that mattered, but how they made up. Marriages became stable over time if couples learned to reconcile successfully after a fight.\"\n\nGottman developed multiple models, scales and formulas to predict marital stability and divorce in couples, and has completed seven studies in this field. These studies regarding newlywed couples are most well known.\n\nThis work concludes that the four negative behaviors that most predict divorce are criticism of partners’ personality, contempt (from a position of superiority), defensiveness, and stonewalling, or emotional withdrawal from interaction usually due to feeling overwhelmed by criticism. On the other hand, stable couples handle conflicts in gentle, positive ways, and are supportive of each other.\n\nHe developed the Gottman Method Couple’s Therapy based on his research findings. The therapy aims to increase respect, affection, and closeness, break through and resolve conflict, generate greater understandings, and to keep conflict discussions calm. The Gottman Method seeks to help couples build happy and stable marriages.\n\nGottman’s therapy model focuses on the process of conflict within the marriage, and less on the content. It should be noted that his research is longitudinal, meaning that he gathers data on the couples over several years.\n\nGottman’s predictions are based on perceived marital bond. In his 2000 study, Gottman conducted oral interviews with 95 newlywed couples. Couples were asked about their relationship, mutual history, and philosophy towards marriage. The interview measured the couple's perceptions of their history and marriage by focusing on the positive or negative qualities of the relationship expressed in the telling of the story. Rather than scoring the content of their answers, interviewers used the Oral History Interview coding system, developed by Buehlman and Gottman in 1996, to measure spouses' perceptions about the marriage and about each other. Therefore, the couples’ perception was used to predict marital stability or divorce. The more positive their perceptions and attitudes were about their marriage and each other, the more stable the marriage.\n\nHis models partly rely on Paul Ekman's method of analyzing human emotion and microexpressions.\n\nThe original study was published by Gottman and Buehlman in 1992, in which they interviewed couples with children. A posteriori modeling yielded a discriminant function that discriminate who has divorced with 94% accuracy. Gottman believed that since early married life is a period of change and adjustment, and perceptions are being formed, he sought to predict marital stability and divorce through couples’ perceptions during the first year of marriage.\n\nIn a 1998 study, Gottman developed a model to predict which newlywed couples would remain married and which would divorce four to six years later. The model fits the data with 90% accuracy. Another model fits with 81% percent accuracy for which marriages survived after seven to nine years.\n\nGottman’s follow-up study with newlywed couples, published in 2000, used the Oral History Interview to predict marital stability and divorce. Gottman's model fit with 87.4% accuracy for classifying couples who divorce (or not) within the couples’ first five years of marriage. He used couples’ perceptions about their marriages and each other to model marital stability or divorce.\n\nGottman has been criticized for describing this work as accurately predicting divorce, when generally this work involves simply fitting statistical models to a data set, not making predictions about events in the future.\n\nA paper by Richard E. Heyman, \"The hazard of predicting divorce without cross validation\" analyzes 15 divorce prediction models and questions their validity.\n\n\"Overfitting can cause extreme overinflation of predictive powers, especially when oversampled extreme groups and small samples are used, as was the case with Gottman et al. (1998; n = 60 couples for the prediction analyses) and nearly all of the other divorce prediction studies ... published studies that find extraordinary initial predictive results may aid us in improving models of risk by identifying important risk factors. Nonetheless, dissemination of 'predictive power' results in the popular media must await supportive data on sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value when the predictive equation is applied to independent samples. By recognizing both the value and limitations of predictive studies, professionals and the public alike will be served best.\"\n\nThe author shows his points by creating a divorce prediction model with a data set, and showing its low validity when the above considerations are tested.\n\nGottman never published a reply to this critique.\n\nJournalist Laurie Abraham also disputed the prediction power of Gottman's method. Abraham writes, \"What Gottman did wasn't really a prediction of the future but a formula built after the couples' outcomes were already known. This isn't to say that developing such formulas isn't a valuable — indeed, a critical — first step in being able to make a prediction. The next step, however —one absolutely required by the scientific method— is to apply your equation to a fresh sample to see whether it actually works. That is especially necessary with small data slices (such as 57 couples), because patterns that appear important are more likely to be mere flukes. But Gottman never did that.\" The Gottman Relationship Institute claims that six of seven of Gottman's studies have been properly predictive, by a non-standard definition of prediction in which all that is required is that predictive variables, but not their specific relationship to the outcome, were selected in advance.\nHowever, Gottman's 2002 paper makes no claims to accuracy in terms of binary classification, and is instead a regression analysis of a two factor model where skin conductance levels and oral history narratives encodings are the only two statistically significant variables. Facial expressions using Ekman's encoding scheme were not statistically significant.\n\nIndependent research on the impact of Gottman's marriage strengthening programs for the general public has further questioned Gottman couple education programs.\n\nThe largest independent evaluation of a marriage education curriculum developed by Gottman, known as \"Loving Couples, Loving Children,\" was conducted by Mathematica Policy Research at nine sites in five states through the federally funded, multi-year Building Strong Families Program study contracted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families. The study group included low-income, unwed couples.\n\nAn impact report released by the Office of Planning Research and Evaluation showed that the intervention had no positive impact and, in one case, \"had negative effects on couples’ relationships.\"\n\nAn ongoing study by Manpower Development Research Corporation (MDRC), known as the Supporting Healthy Marriage Project (SHM), is evaluating Gottman's \"Loving Couples, Loving Children\" program among low-income, married couples. The multi-year, random assignment study is funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families. In an early impact study on the effectiveness of \"skills-based relationship education programs designed to help low-income married couples strengthen their relationships and, in turn, to support more stable and more nurturing home environments and more positive outcomes for parents and their children,\" MDRC reported \"Overall, the program has shown some small positive effects, without clear indications (yet no clear negative proof) for improving the odds to stay together after 12 months.\"\n\nThe program is still ongoing.\n\nA study published by Matthews, Wickrama and Conger in 1996 based on couples’ perceptions showed that spousal hostility, net of warmth, predicted with 80% accuracy which couples would divorce or not divorce within a year.\n\nIn multiple analyses, Gottman has shown a plethora of relations and effects in marriage and divorce, some in peer-reviewed publications, while many others appear in Gottman's own books. Among those are\n\nGottman's theory states that there are four major emotional reactions that are destructive and thus are the four predictors to a divorce: criticism, defensiveness, stonewalling, and contempt. Among these four, Gottman considers contempt the most important of them all.\n\nIn his book \"The Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work\", (his most popular book) Gottman discusses behaviors that he has observed in marriages that are successful and those that are detrimental to marriage, based on his research conducted at his lab in Seattle, Washington. He has outlined seven principles that will reinforce the positive aspects of a relationship and help marriages endure during the rough moments.\n\nHere is a partial list of methods and practices developed by Gottman for marriage and child-rearing:\n\nThe Gottman Institute certifies new therapists regularly. Three levels of professional training are generally delivered through intensive two-day seminars or through at-home or online study to train therapists in Gottman Method Couples Therapy:\n\n\n\"Bringing Baby Home\" is a two-day seminar to help prepare would-be parents to a new baby, using 18 exercises and other tricks. \nIn a peer-reviewed paper, Gottman shows that for a randomly controlled (but not blinded) experiment, couples attending the workshop were tremendously better off later, as follows:\nWithout the workshop, 70% of couples had lower marital satisfaction relative to before birth (a common finding); 58% of mothers had some symptoms of depression after giving birth.\nParticipation in the workshop resulted in no reduction in marital satisfaction,but only 22% of mothers had depressive symptoms.\n\nGottman has authored and co-authored multiple books for a general audience on marriage improvement, etc., raising emotionally intelligent children, and on how to bring a new baby home without damaging the relationship.\n\nGottman summarised the four critical predictive factors to the risk of the relationship by examples with \"Four Horseman\" which are Criticism of the personality, Defensiveness, Stonewalling and Contempt. \nJohn Gottman was born in the Dominican Republic to Orthodox Jewish parents. His father was a rabbi in pre-WWII Vienna. John was educated in a Lubavitch yeshiva elementary school in Brooklyn, and he observes kosher and the Sabbath.\n\nOver three decades ago, he married Julie Gottman née Schwartz, a psychotherapist. His two previous marriages had ended in divorce.\n\nThe couple currently live in Washington state.\n\nGottman has been the recipient of four National Institute of Mental Health Research Scientist Awards, the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy Distinguished Research Scientist Award, the American Family Therapy Academy Award for Most Distinguished Contributor to Family Systems Research, the American Psychological Association Division of Family Psychology, Presidential Citation for Outstanding Lifetime Research Contribution and the National Council of Family Relations, 1994 Burgess Award for Outstanding Career in Theory and Research.\n\nGottman has published over 190 papers, and is the author or co-author of 40 books, notably:\n\n"}
{"id": "40658347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40658347", "title": "Konrad Pesudovs", "text": "Konrad Pesudovs\n\nKonrad Pesudovs (b 1969) is an Australian optometrist and outcomes researcher in ophthalmology. He is the President of the Australian College of Optometry (2016-). He was the Foundation Chair of Optometry and Vision Science at Flinders University from 2009-2017.\n\nPesudovs was born in Sydney, Australia in 1969 to Latvian immigrant parents. He was educated at Turramurra Public School, Roosevelt Elementary School, Rowland Elementary School, Doncaster Park Primary School, Templestowe Heights Primary School and later Trinity Grammar School. In 1990, he obtained Bachelor of Science in Optometry at the University of Melbourne, a Certificate of Competence in the Rehabilitation of the Partially Sighted at the Australian College of Optometry in 1996, a Postgraduate Diploma in Advanced Clinical Optometry at the University of Melbourne in 2000, and completed his Ph.D. at Flinders University in 2000. In 2001 he obtained MCOptom from the College of Optometrists. In 2012 was admitted as a Graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors, becoming a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors in 2015. He is also a Fellow of the Australian College of Optometry (1992), the American Academy of Optometry (1995) the Cornea and Contact Lens Society of Australia (1999) and the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology (2016).\n\nPesudovs won a National Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC) Sir Neil Hamilton Fairley Fellowship to be a post-doc at the University of Bradford with Prof David Elliott (2001-2003). He then moved to the University of Houston as a post-doc with Prof Raymond A. Applegate (2003-2004). In late 2004, he returned to Flinders University where he became a clinical research fellow funded by an NHMRC Career Development Fellowship. In 2005, he was Chief Investigator A on the successful funding of the NHMRC Centre of Clinical Research Excellence in Ophthalmology Outcomes Research. Since then he has received a number of NHMRC project grants with a career total NHMRC funding of over US$5million and total career grant funding of over US$9million. His research interest is ophthalmology outcomes research; incorporating optical, visual and patient-reported measurement into the holistic assessment of ophthalmic outcomes. A key element of this is the development of patient-reported outcome measures including visual disability, quality of life and other latent traits using Rasch analysis. He has developed a number of questionnaires and is the leader of an international project to develop item banking and computer adaptive testing for measuring patient-reported outcomes in ophthalmology (the Eye-tem Bank Project). Another key area of outcomes research is in the measurement of the optics of the eye and visual performance. He has conducted outcomes research in treatments for all the major blinding eye diseases, with particular emphasis on cataract and corneal disease. He also has a strong track record in health valuation and ophthalmic epidemiology particularly with the Global Burden of Disease Study. His h-index is 45 (Institute for Scientific Information) and 57 (Google Scholar).\n\nIn 2009, he was appointed Foundation Chair of Optometry and Vision Science at Flinders University and set the task of creating a new 5 year optometry double degree program. The course design incorporated innovative teaching and learning strategies including integrated teaching, case-based learning and other student-centred learning strategies, e-learning, communication skills, business skills, evidence-based practice, simulation, high volume clinical exposure, clinical placements using the parallel clinical consulting model, and regional, remote and indigenous student recruitment and training strategies. The Bachelor of Medical Science(Vision Science) /Master of Optometry double degree has been accredited by the Optometry Council of Australia and New Zealand and the Optometry Board of Australia. The first students graduated in 2015. He was the course coordinator of the optometry program, has administrative responsibility for the Discipline of Optometry and oversight of the clinical service: Flinders Vision until December 2017. He was the lead organiser of the annual Evidence-Based Optometry Conference (established 2014).\n\nHe was also a Visiting Professor, School of Optometry and Ophthalmology and Eye Hospital, Wenzhou Medical College, Key Laboratory of Vision Science, Ministry of Health P.R. China, Wenzhou, Zhejiang, China. He sits on 2 journal editorial boards: Journal of Refractive Surgery and Journal of Cataract & Refractive Surgery, having previously sat on 6 others: Archives of Medical Science (2007-2013), Clinical & Experimental Optometry (2007-2017), The Open Translational Medicine Journal (2008-2014), Journal of Optometry (2008-2016), Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics (2010-2015) and Optometry and Vision Science (2010-2015). He was Chairman of the Board of Administration of the National Vision Research Institute (2015-2016). He is a member of the Governing Council of the Australian College of Optometry (2010-), serving as President from 2016-. He also served as a member of the Steering Committee for the Australian College of Optometry Ocular Therapeutics Course (2011-2012). He has previously served as a state councilor of the Australian Optometrical Association (1992-1996) and the Contact Lens Society of Australia (1993-2000) including 3 years as President (1994-1996). He has been a Committee Member of the Publications Committee for the Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology (2012-2014) and was a member of the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM) Health Outcomes Measurement for Cataract Surgery working group. He is a member of the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care, Cataract Surgery Clinical Care Standard working group, 2017-2018.\n\nPesudovs is an accomplished clinician having extensive training and experience in Contact Lenses (under AJ Phillips), Low Vision Care having worked at the Royal Society for the Blind in the 1990s and Ophthalmology settings including Flinders Medical Centre and Leeds General Infirmary. He pioneered optometry clinics in cooperation with ophthalmology services in public hospitals in Australia, particularly the Cataract Assessment Clinic and the Visual Assessment Clinic at Flinders Medical Centre. He owned and operated an Optometry private practice from 1995-2002 in Glenelg, South Australia. He continues clinical work.\n\nPesudovs was awarded the J Lloyd Hewitt Award in 1994 by the editorial board of \"Clinical and Experimental Optometry\" and the Australian Optometrical Association. He was awarded the Peter-Abel Preis in 2006 by Die Vereinigung Deutscher Contactlinsen-Spezialisten e.V. (VDC). He was awarded the Waring Medal in 2006 by the International Society of Refractive Surgery. He was awarded a Young Tall Poppy Science Award, South Australia, for 2007-2008 by the Australian Institute of Policy and Science. He was awarded the Irvin M. and Beatrice Borish Award by the American Academy of Optometry in 2008. He was awarded the Garland Clay Award by the American Academy of Optometry in 2009 and again in 2011. He shared The American Public Health Association Vision Care Section 2014 Outstanding Scientific Paper Award with the Vision Loss Expert Group of the Global Burden of Disease 2010. In 2018, Konrad Pesudovs was named International Optometrist of the Year.\n\nComplete list of peer-reviewed journal articles on the PubMed: \nBook chapters:\n\n"}
{"id": "6804644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6804644", "title": "List of awareness ribbons", "text": "List of awareness ribbons\n\nThis is a partial list of awareness ribbons. The meaning behind an awareness ribbon depends on its colors and pattern. Since many advocacy groups have adopted ribbons as symbols of support or awareness, ribbons, particularly those of a single color, some colors may refer to more than one cause. Some causes may be represented by more than one ribbon.\n"}
{"id": "18328443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18328443", "title": "List of political parties in Eastern Asia by country", "text": "List of political parties in Eastern Asia by country\n"}
{"id": "2317718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2317718", "title": "Loosie", "text": "Loosie\n\nIn the United States, a loosie (or loosey) is a single cigarette that is purchased or sold.\n\nThe transaction is illegal and commonly found in low-income areas. The high cost of cigarettes due to increased taxation has been blamed for increased sales of loosies. \n\nIn 2014, Eric Garner died when NYPD officers attempted to arrest him for allegedly selling loosies.\n"}
{"id": "54922928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54922928", "title": "M. Elizabeth Shellabarger", "text": "M. Elizabeth Shellabarger\n\nMary Elizabeth \"Bess\" Shellabarger (October 16, 1879 - June 25, 1967) was a Registered Nurse, army nurse overseas during World War I and director of American Red Cross Nursing Service in Albania and Montenegro.\n\nM. Elizabeth Shellabarger was born in Moffat, Colorado, on October 16, 1879, the daughter of Adam Shellabarger (died 1915) and Abigal \"Abbie\" Wales, Colorado pioneers. The other children were: Charles Walter (b. 1875), Ralph Wales (b. 1877), Emma Irene (b. 1882), Clara Ethel \"Dolly\" (b. 1884), Gertrude Eloise (b. 1891).\n\nShellabarger graduated from East High School (Denver) in 1899 and then attended a Special Literary Course at Emerson College of Oratory in Boston, in 1901 and 1902, and a Vocal training at New England Conservatory of Music. She entered Bellevue Hospital Training School of Nursing on June 1905, graduating in 1908, and Teachers College, Columbia University, in 1916, obtaining a B. S. in 1920.\n\nM. Elizabeth Shellabarger was the first person from Saguache County, Colorado to become a Registered Nurse.\n\nIn 1908 Shellabarger was appointed Junior Supervisor and Instructor in Maternal Medicine at Bellevue Hospital Training School of Nursing. \nIn 1909 she was named Assistant Director of Touro Infirmary in New Orleans with a class of 100 students.\n\nFrom 1910 to 1912 Shellabarger was Superintendent of the Visiting Nurses Association of Denver. \nFrom 1912 to 1916 she was Superintendent of the School of Nursing at St. Mark's Hospital, Salt Lake City. \nIn 1914 she was appointed President of the Graduate Nurses Association, Salt Lake City. \nShe was an army nurse overseas during World War I: in 1917 she joined the University of Colorado Hospital Unit of the American Red Cross and in 1918 she served as Assistant Chief Nurse in London and Winchester, England. On the travel back to the United States she was Chief Nurse on the Hospital Ship Saxonia. \nIn 1919 she was instructor at the Army School of Nursing, Fox Hill, Staten Island, New York.\n\nFrom 1920 to 1921 Shellabarger was Director of the Public Health Nursing Course at the University of Colorado, with field service at Pueblo, Colorado. \nIn 1922 she was director of Public Health Nursing under the American Red Cross Nursing Service in Albania and Montenegro. \nIn 1924 she was Director of the Public Health Nursing Course at the Missouri School of Social Economy in St. Louis. \nFrom 1925 to 1927 she was Superintendent of Hospital and School of Nursing at Memorial Hospital, Cheyenne, Wyoming: from this position she voluntary resigned when the Board of Trustees would not give the necessary support to raise the standards and meet the requirements to become Class A under College of Surgeons. \nShe was the president of the Wyoming State Nurses Association in 1926.\nIn 1928 and 1930 she made a survey of Schools of Nursing in Arkansas for the State Board of Nursing Examiners while she was Inspector of Schools of Nursing. She was then named Educational Secretary. \nIn October 1929 she taught Sciences at the City School of Nursing, Colorado.\n\nIn 1931 Shellabarger worked for the Texas State Board Drought Relief 12 Counties at the Brady Texas Center.\nFrom 1931 to 1933 she worked for the Official Bureau at Houston, Texas. \nFrom 1934 to 1936 she was Superintendent of Public Health Nurses in El Paso and three counties of Texas. \nShe was President of the Texas State Organization for Public Health Nursing in 1934 and 1935.\nIn 1936 she was Regional Supervisor for New Mexico. \nFrom 1937 to 1938 she was Supervisor at the Methodist National Sanatorium, Colorado Springs, Colorado. \nIn 1939 she was dietitian and nurse for 200 soldiers at the Soldier&Sailors Home at Home Lake, Colorado. \n\nIn 1940 Shellabarger worked for the Official Nursing Bureau at San Antonio, Texas.\nFrom 1940 to 1941 she taught a Refresher Course at San Antonio, Texas.\nIn 1942 she was instructor at the University of the Incarnate Word teaching to Registered Nurse how to teach History of Nursing and Public Health Nursing Field.\nShellabarger contributed at the \"American Journal of Nursing\" (AJN).\n\nShellabarger was member of American Legion Auxiliary, Cheyenne College Club, American League of Nursing Education, American Public Health Association, Episcopal Church, Order of the Eastern Star, Daughters of the American Revolution, American Association of University Women.\n\nM. Elizabeth Shellabarger lived at Rito Alto Ranch, Moffat, Colorado, and retired to Tempe, Arizona in the 1950s.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century Shellabarger was romantically involved with Ralph Wykes Garretson. (1878-1903) but he died on September 7, 1903, from a ruptured appendix. It was then that Shellabarger decided to became a nurse.\n\nShellabarger died on June 25, 1967 and was buried, with military honors, at the Santa Fe National Cemetery, New Mexico.\n\nAlice Elizabeth Selch Stephenson, her grandniece, wrote the memoirs of Mary Elizabeth \"Bess\" Shellabarger, \"Three Scuffed Suitcases: Biography from the diaries Of Mary Elizabeth \"Bess\" Shellabarger Colorado World War I Nurse\".\n"}
{"id": "2936983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2936983", "title": "Mission Habitat", "text": "Mission Habitat\n\nMisión Hábitat (\"Mission Habitat\") is a Venezuelan Bolivarian Mission that has as its goal the construction of thousands of new housing units for the poor. The program also seeks to develop agreeable and integrated housing zones that make available a full range of social services — from education to healthcare — which likens its vision to that of New Urbanism.\n\nAccording to Venezuela's \"El Universal\", Chávez promised to build 150,000 houses in 2006. In the first half of the year, 24% of the goal (35,000 houses) was fulfilled. In 2013, the Venezuelan government completed nearly 50% of projected homes and in 2014 completed 30% of its target.\n\n"}
{"id": "2936892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2936892", "title": "Mission Ribas", "text": "Mission Ribas\n\nMisión Ribas (launched November 2003) is a Venezuelan Bolivarian Mission that provides remedial high school level classes to the five million Venezuelan high school dropouts; named after independence hero José Félix Ribas.\n\nIn July 2006 President Chávez announced that the Mission Ribas should become a socio-political movement conformed by students, family members and professors to guarantee its role as a promoting agent of the Bolivarian revolution.\nThere have been many concerns about the effectiveness of this and other missions lately. Even Chávez has expressed worry about the high number of people who drop out of school or do not continue to the Mision Sucre, or Higher Education.\nThe pro-government deputy Pastora Medina admitted that \"there are denunciations about the way scholarships are given. There is little commitment from the pupils and the teachers of the Misión Ribas and this has led to a wrong development. In the Caricuao area, in Caracas, there are 300 pupils registered, but only eight go to classes\".\n\nThe state-owned Petróleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) is a large contributor to Mission Ribas. In 2009, US$2.1 billion were allocated to the mission, which according to PDVSA were \"resources that have resulted in the issuance of 159,749 scholarships\" and helped 632,623 Venezuelans earn \"the title of Bachelor of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela\".\n\nIn a 2007 \"New York Times\" article, it was reported that \"most of the students also receive stipends of $85 a month to attend\" and that \"the students themselves choose who gets the stipends, based on need and dedication\".\n\nMission Ribas officials stated that \"Political and ideological training ... is the top qualification for a facilitator\". Ribas officials gave students lengthy talks about supporting the Venezuelan government, especially during the 2007 Venezuelan Elections when one official from Las Torres told students \"to attend marches and street demonstrations supporting Chávez\".\n\nIn May 2009, Citizen Minister and President of PDVSA, Rafael Ramírez, created Socialist Production Brigades from former graduates which aimed to \"constitute the aim of promoting community participation and inclusion of volunteerism through the implementation of socialist-oriented projects the execution of works and services to meet the needs in different sectors\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1223132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223132", "title": "Monar", "text": "Monar\n\nMonar is a Polish non-governmental organization focused on helping drug addicts, the homeless, those who are HIV positive or who have AIDS, and many other groups of people who need help. It was established formally as an association in 1981.\n\nThe origins of Monar lie in the centre which was opened on 15 October 1978 in Gloskow near Garwolin, by Marek Kotański. He and several other volunteers rebuilt an abandoned house in ruins.\n\nThe organisation maintains 30 stationary centres of rehabilitation, and 28 points of \"temporary help\" for drug and alcohol addicts. It also maintains 70 hostels for homeless people and 13 points of information trying to prevent AIDS, drug addiction, helping parents etc.\n\nThe organisation employs around 700 professionals (medical staff, psychologists etc.) and it is supported by around 300 volunteers each year. Around 2,000 drug and alcohol addicts are recovered each year. Around 20,000 homeless people are using Monar hostels.\n\n"}
{"id": "29514404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29514404", "title": "NATAL Israel", "text": "NATAL Israel\n\nNATAL - Israel Trauma and Resiliency Center (established: 1998, Tel Aviv) is an apolitical non-profit organization. NATAL specializes in the field of war-and-terror-related trauma, PTSD and resiliency-building among civil society. NATAL was the first center in Israel to standartize and create protocols for coping with trauma and resilience-building in a social general society context. During twenty years of work NATAL has supported over 280,000 Israeli people coping with trauma. \n\nNATAL's co-founders are the late Dr. Yossi Hadar and Judith Yovel Recanati, who serves as NATAL's chair. Benny Gantz is the chair of NATAL public advisory.\n\n\n\nIsrael is often described as a lab for research of psychological stress. During decades of conflict war and lethal terror have become integral part of the life of Israeli civil society. While the 1973 Yom Kippur war served as the formative event that reformed professional approach towards trauma among soldiers, the second intifada in the early 2000s changed the aprroach towards trauma effect, treatment and resilience among the civil society. \n\nThe Yom Kippur War, which broke out in 1973, introduced trauma to Israeli public discourse. It induced a systematic change in the way trauma was acknowledged and tackled in Israeli society. The war still serves as a formative event in Israeli collective memory. It bares far-reaching ramifications over Israeli politics, economy, defense and intelligence systems, as well as over the general society and public discourse in raising issues of the total sacrifice of the individual, responsibility of the state and collective trauma. \n\nThe IDF reformed approach towards trauma and PTSD was one result of the war. The integration of mental health components in the medical system, was another. The long-term process initiated in 1973, acknowledging trauma among Israeli soldiers and veterans also contributed to acknowledging trauma among civilians later on in the 1990's (First Golf War, 1991) and more so during the second Intifada (2000-2004). \n\nIn its early days NATAL consisted of a helpline and clinical unit that laid the foundation for NATAL's multi-disciplinary model. NATAL addressed then mainly Yom Kippur veterans who twenty years after the war acknowledged their PTSD. Later on the model developed and extended to wider circles civil society. \n\nThe following serve as general working principles:\n\n\n\nDuring time of peace the resilience building trainina take pace in schools, among first responders (police, fire fighters, hospitals), local authorities, governmental bodies, private sector and community leaders. \nThose models are also consist of the an international component and workshops.\n\nFollowing his sudden death Ms. Yovel Recanati became NATAL chairperson. \nDuring the first working phase following re organization NATAL consisted of a helpline and clinical unit that laid the foundation for NATAL's multi-disciplinary model.\n\n\n\nNATAL held the \"20/70 Conference about Trauma\" and the 6th \"Running in Color\" fun run. \nNATAL won Ministry of Health Shield of Volunteering.\n\nThe late Dr. Yossi Hadar and art therapist and Israeli philanthropist NATAL's Chairperson Judith Yovel Recanati established NATAL in June 1998. The 1973 Yom Kippur war affected both co-founders and paved each of their ways to dealing with trauma and post trauma. Dr. Hadar served as a medical doctor in the Golan heights during the war, treated wounded under fire and faced a near captivity experience. Judith Recanati served as a welfare officer treating families of severely wounded soldiers. \n\nTheir first encounter was in the 1980s at the Loewenstein rehabilitatin hospital where Recanati worked as an art therapist with head, spine injured patients, and Dr. Hadar was her mentor. Later Recanati studied psychotherapy in Bar Ilan University, where Yossi Hadar chaired the program. \n\nIn 1997, Hadar approached Recanati offering her to join him in establishing an NGO dedicated to supporting those who coped with trauma induced by security conditions and war. It was the first NGO established with this orientation. Only 25 years after the Yom Kippur war did its ex-soldiers begin to approach therapy. During 1997, an establishment team of some ten therapists was established. \nDr. Hadar passed away a few weeks after NATAL's inception, after diagnosed with cancer. \nFollowing his sudden death, a re-organization process took place and Ms. Recanati was appointed Chairperson of NATAL.\n\n(Hebrew: יהודית יובל רקנאטי née Recanati born: 1951, Tel Aviv) Israeli social investor and philanthropist. \n\nJudith Recanati is the daughter of Daniel Recanati and grandaughter of Leon Recanati who together with his partner Moshe Carasso founded (1935) Israel Discount Bank. Born and raised in Tel Aviv Judith attended HaCarmel elementary school and gratuated the Hertzliya Gimnasium in Tel Aviv. \n\nAt 13 Judith joined the local Hebrew scouts movement - HaTzofim. For the next six years she would be a passionate and active member, guide and the coordinator of her age group at the \"Kehila\" tribe in Tel Aviv. This was a formative experience with a long lasting impact over her future decisions in life. Rooted in Israeli ethos and values, the scouts activities and education programs, touring and hiking Israel embodied the local Israeli identity formed during state-building years after the holocaust and before 1967. Another dimension was the activity being independent from her well established, dominant and europe oriented family. Recanati referred to the youth movement as where she realized her lasting possesions were her own actions, decisions and personality. \n\nServing as a general welfare and gender affairs officer between ages 18-20 Judith attended home visits and conducted social evaluation of soldiers from low soicio-economy background. This wes her first encounter with Israeli most volnurable communities. During the Yom Kippur War she volunteered in a Tel Aviv hospital burns' department. During and after the war, due to a growing need for ground forces, women were needed in roles in the field[1]. According to Rina Bar-Tal, chair of the Israel Women's Network, roles for women beyond technical and secretarial support only started to open up in the late 1970s and early '80s, because of manpower shortages. In this view Recanati drafted again serving one more year as a medical affairs officer facilitating care for families and individuals affeced by the war. \n\nRecanati read archieology in the Tel-Aviv University.\nShe studied photography at Hamidrasha Arts Academy and art therapy Lesly College.\nGraduate of Gestalt studies.\n\nRecanati is the mother of three daghters and grandomother of eight grandchildren.\nHer husband Dr. Yovel passed away. Mr. David Simcha is her spouse.\n\n\n(Hebrew: ד\"ר יוסי הדר born: 19 May 1946 Belgium. died: July 1998, Israel) a physician, psychiatrist, author, poet and playwright.\nDr. Hadar was one of the first to deal with trauma and post trauma in Israeli society and focused on the trauma of the Holocaust and combat stress. Emigrated from Europe to Israel in 1947 as a toddler with his parents who were both Holocaust survivors. Dr. Hadar studied medicine in Jerusalem. During his military service as a medical doctor during Yom Kippur War Dr. Hadar exposed to combat stress and had a near captivity experience. Following which he has dedicated his career to psychiatry and trauma in particular in view of the Holocaust and combat stress. \nHadar published several poetry books and novels. in addition seven of his playwrights went on stage in Israel and one in London.\n"}
{"id": "245924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245924", "title": "Namtar", "text": "Namtar\n\nNamtar (or Namtaru, or Namtara; meaning destiny or fate), was a chthonic minor deity in Mesopotamian mythology, god of death, and minister and messenger of An, Ereshkigal, and Nergal.\n\nNamtar was the son of Enlil and Ereshkigal; he was born before his father raped the goddess Ninlil. Namtar was considered responsible for diseases and pests. It was said that he commanded sixty diseases in the form of demons that could penetrate different parts of the human body; offerings to him were made to prevent those illnesses. It is thought that the Assyrians and Babylonians took this belief from the Sumerians after conquering them. To some they were the spirit of fate, and therefore of great importance. Apparently they executed the instructions given him concerning the fate of men, and could also have power over certain of the gods. In other writings they were regarded as the personification of death, much like the modern concept of the Grim Reaper.\n\nIn the story of Ishtar's Descent to the underworld, acting as Ereshkigal's 'messenger', Namtar curses Ishtar with 60 diseases, naming five of the head, feet, side, eyes, and heart, after she arrives in the underworld.\n\nNamtar was regarded as the beloved son of Bêl/Enlil, and was married to the underworld goddess Hušbišag.\n\n"}
{"id": "38980484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38980484", "title": "National Biomedical Imaging Archive", "text": "National Biomedical Imaging Archive\n\nNational Biomedical Imaging Archive (NBIA) is an Open-source software Web application managed by the United States National Cancer Institute (NCI) intended to create searchable repositories of in vivo images. The software is described in detail and can be downloaded from the NBIA wiki. A re-factoring analysis which examined the current status of development and future strategies was completed in 2015 and published on the NCI wiki. A demo instance of NBIA is deployed at http://imaging.nci.nih.gov/. Initially this was leveraged by NCI's Cancer Imaging Program to support the data sharing needs of the cancer imaging research community, but most of that data has been migrated to The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA). TCIA continues to leverage the NBIA software as part of its infrastructure.\n"}
{"id": "57012700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57012700", "title": "Order of Pharmacists of Lebanon", "text": "Order of Pharmacists of Lebanon\n\nThe Order of Pharmacists of Lebanon is a pharmaceutical organisation based in Beirut.\n\nIt formed a partnership with the Royal Pharmaceutical Society in February 2018.\n\nMore than 1,800 pharmacists attended its 24th Annual Congress in 2016.\n\nIt is supported by Michel Aoun the President of Lebanon.\n"}
{"id": "26536902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26536902", "title": "Pacific Society for Reproductive Health Trust", "text": "Pacific Society for Reproductive Health Trust\n\nPacific Society for Reproductive Health (PSRH) Trust has a membership of health professionals working in the many Island nations in the Pacific in the area of reproductive health and neonatology. Launched in 1995 in Port Vila, Vanuatu, the Society is registered as a Charitable Trust in New Zealand where the secretariat is housed in the Pacific Women's Health Research Unit at the University of Auckland.\n\nThe objectives of PSRH are to advocate for the improvement of maternal and child health across the Pacific by promoting and seeking educational opportunities for its members. More information can be obtained from the Secretariat at Middlemore Hospital, PB 93311, Auckland, New Zealand.\n\nThe PSRH and RANZOCG contributed in a major way to the report on \"Making Maternal Health Matter\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2853996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2853996", "title": "Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre", "text": "Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre\n\nThe Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, also known as the Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute and commonly abbreviated as the Peter Mac, is an Australian oncology research institute, cancer treatment, and professional oncologist training centre located in Melbourne, Victoria. The Centre is named in honour of Sir Peter MacCallum. Since June 2016, the Peter Mac has been located within the Victorian Comprehensive Cancer Centre (VCCC) in . \n\nTogether with the VCCC, the Peter Mac is Australia’s only public hospital dedicated to cancer treatment, research and education. It is also one of the few cancer treatment facilities in the world which has a fully integrated clinical and laboratory program situated alongside a hospital. This co-location facilitates the translation of research findings into clinical outcomes within the single site.\n\nResearch programs at the centre include the Australian Cancer Research Foundation (ACRF) Cancer Cell Biology Program and the ACRF Victorian Centre for Functional Genomics in Cancer.\n\nThe Peter Mac offers much in the way of integrated services, including medical oncology and radiation oncology facilities and links with allied health services such as physiotherapy, occupational therapy, dietetics, speech therapy and social services.\n\nThe Victorian Cancer Institute's cancer hospital was given the title Peter MacCallum Clinic after the (then) dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Melbourne University, Peter MacCallum, who along with Rutherford Kaye-Scott had a significant role in its founding in 1949. At the time it was a common practice not to inform patients that they had cancer. It was thought that because radiotherapy was also quite commonly used at that time to treat non-cancerous conditions such as severe acne, \"strawberry birthmarks\", frozen shoulders, keloid scars and also to provide a valuable and non-invasive means for medical sterilisation, the name \"Peter MacCallum Clinic\" would be much less threatening because the clinic could be positioned as a specialist radiotherapeutic centre rather than it being thought of as a dedicated cancer hospital. In 1986, the clinic was renamed as the Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute.\n\nSituated within Parkville Biomedical Precinct, the Peter Mac's Melbourne centre is housed within the VCCC building located at 305 Grattan Street, Melbourne, with satellite services at the Bendigo Base Hospital, Epworth Eastern, the Monash Medical Centre (Moorabbin campus in East Bentleigh) and Sunshine Hospital in St Albans. Prior to its relocation to this site in June 2016, the Peter Mac was located for 22 years in in the former St Andrew's Hospital, a maternity hospital which was run by the Presbyterian Church. Prior to 1994, the then Peter MacCallum Clinic was located at the corner of William Street and Little Lonsdale Street.\n\nToday the Peter Mac comprises a sprawling biomedical precinct involving some shared services with the nearby Royal Melbourne Hospital, the Royal Women's Hospital and the Royal Children's Hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10176965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10176965", "title": "Phytopharmacology", "text": "Phytopharmacology\n\nPhytopharmacology is the study and practice of eradicating plant pathology originated from the \"Verbandes Deutscher Pflanzenärzte\" (1928–1939), (German Plant Physicians Society), headed by Otto Appel, known as the \"Organiser of German Plant Protection\", who initially defined the terminology of \"Phyto-Medicine\" or \"Plant Medicine\". The Deutsche Phytomedizinische Gesellschaft (German Phytomedicine Society) is the German association of phytomedicine practitioners. Academic programs in phytomedicine, such as at the University of Hohenheim, consider the interrelationships between pathogenic microorganisms and crops, disease control methods, and research programs.\n\nIn 1936, the term \"phytopharmacology\" was used for the field of study on drugs that affect plants.\n"}
{"id": "26337062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26337062", "title": "Pipofezine", "text": "Pipofezine\n\nPipofezine, sold under the brand name Azafen or Azaphen, is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) approved in Russia for the treatment of depression. It was introduced in the late 1960s and is still used today.\n\nPipofezine has been shown to act as a potent inhibitor of the reuptake of serotonin. In addition to its antidepressant action, pipofezine has sedative effects as well, suggesting antihistamine activity. Other properties such as anticholinergic or antiadrenergic actions are less clear but are likely.\n\n"}
{"id": "51179429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51179429", "title": "Priority-setting in global health", "text": "Priority-setting in global health\n\nIn global health, priority-setting is a term used for the process and strategy of deciding which health interventions to carry out. Priority-setting can be conducted at the disease level (i.e. deciding which disease to alleviate), the overall strategy level (i.e. selective primary healthcare versus primary healthcare versus more general health systems strengthening), research level (i.e. which health research to carry out), or other levels.\n\nPriority-setting is the act of deciding which health interventions to carry out, and can occur at several levels of granularity. Priority-setting can occur at the following levels:\n\n\nSynonymous terms include \"prioritization in health care and health research\", \"priority determination\", \"health priorities\", and \"agenda-setting\".\n\nVarious metrics have been used to compare interventions. These include:\n\n\nPriority-setting can be done by various actors. These include:\n\n\nAccording to Devi Sridhar, professor of global health at the University of Edinburgh, \"the priorities of funding bodies largely dictate what health issues and diseases are studied\".\n\nAccording to Amanda Glassman et al., global-level priority-setting has occurred since at least the 1980s, though these efforts have only focused on a few aspects.\n\nThe following table is a timeline of organizations and programs working on priority-setting.\n\nRudan et al. says that priority-setting efforts have relied on \"consensus reached by panels of experts\" and as a result have not been systematic enough, and that this has \"often made it difficult to present the identified priorities to wider audiences as legitimate and fair\".\n\nGlassman et al. notes that criticisms of priority-setting include \"the weak data on which estimates of burden, cost, and effectiveness relied; the value judgments implicit in disability-adjusted life year age weighting and discounting decisions; and treatment of equity issues, as well as the political difficulties associated with translating a ground zero package into a public budget based on historical inputs\"; and the consideration of only health maximization at the expense of other objectives such as fairness.\n\nGlassman et al. also notes how there are more cost-effectiveness studies for LMICs (in the thousands), but that these are unlikely to be actually applied to priority-setting processes.\n\nJeremy Shiffman has said that some bodies such as the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation and \"The Lancet\" are prominent in priority-setting due to their dominion rather than data and analysis, and also notes that the process of creating the Sustainable Development Goals was not sufficiently transparent.\n\n"}
{"id": "47758958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47758958", "title": "Public health funeral", "text": "Public health funeral\n\nPublic health funerals are funerals in the United Kingdom paid for by the local authority, where the relatives are either unwilling or unable to pay, or where no relatives can be found.\n\nPublic health funerals in England and Wales are governed by the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act 1984. Local authorities are obliged to arrange a funeral where no arrangements are being made or have been made. Local authorities are permitted to recover the costs of such funerals from the estate of the deceased under the Act.\n\n\"The Guardian\" has reported that the average cost of a public health funeral is £950. In some circumstances where a person dies in hospital the relevant NHS trust may arrange a funeral for the deceased; however, ultimately the duty to arrange the funeral rests with the local authority.\n\nSimilar provisions to those in England and Wales exist in Northern Ireland under the Welfare Services Act (Northern Ireland) 1971. District councils are obligated to bury or cremate those who die in their area where no suitable provisions for disposal of the body have been made or are being made.\n\nIn Scotland a duty is imposed on local authorities under the National Assistance Act 1948 where the body of a person who has died or been found dead in their area and no suitable arrangements are being made for disposal of the body. A local authority may also arrange a burial or cremation for any person who was in the care of or receiving assistance (as well as children in local authority care) from the authority immediately prior to their death. In both cases a local authority may seek to recover costs from the estate of the deceased.\n\n549 funerals were undertaken in 2015 under the provisions above, costing local authorities approximately £500,000. These funerals are usually conducted by an undertaker contracted by the local authority to prepare the body and provide a basic funeral.\n"}
{"id": "914503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914503", "title": "Sport policies of the European Union", "text": "Sport policies of the European Union\n\nThe European Union plays a minor and mostly indirect policy role in sport, because (a) sport is normally considered to be outside the competences conferred by the member states to the European Union and (b) sport is in general organised internally, on a European continental level (which is not the same as the level of the European Union), or globally.\n\nThe European Union has a very limited direct role in sport. The European Commission is composed of Directorates-General and several departments. Within the Directorate-General Education and Culture, is the Sport Unit, which is responsible for the following main areas:\n\nOne of the few specific measures in Sports was taken by Decision No. 291/2003/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 February 2003 that established the European Year of Education through Sport 2004.\n\nThe activities and initiatives undertaken during 2004 were organised at Community, transnational, national, regional and local level, and was sometimes co-financed by the Community. Activities compromised for instance financial support for transnational, national, regional or local initiatives to promote education through sport. \n\nAlthough not directed specifically at sport, many of the rules, policies and programmes of the European Union affect the sports world or are of interest to it.\n\nIn particular, the common market of the European Union creates the right for any EU citizen to move and work freely in another member state. The landmark Bosman ruling confirmed that this right, when applied to professional athletes, forbids nationality quotas in sports leagues that affect EU citizens. This has changed the face of professional sports in the EU, with top teams now collecting talent from all over Europe, and sometimes even fielding teams with no domestic players at all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53470257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53470257", "title": "Strike 4 Repeal", "text": "Strike 4 Repeal\n\nStrike 4 Repeal was an abortion rights protest in Ireland on International Women's Day 2017 (Wednesday 8 March 2017). It called for a repeal of the Eight Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland, which bans abortion in nearly all cases, by recognising \"the right to life of the unborn\".\nThe protest was organised by Strike 4 Repeal, an ad-hoc, non-affiliated group of activists, academics, artists and trade unionists organising for abortion rights in Ireland. The main march was in Dublin, with 10,000 people on O'Connell Bridge, and later many outside other government buildings. Despite the name \"strike\" some people took paid holidays that day. There were also protests in Galway, Limerick, Cork & other cities & towns around Ireland. A protest was also held outside the Irish Embassy in London.\n\nIt was inspired by a similar Black Protest in Poland several months earlier, which itself was inspired by the 1975 Icelandic women's strike.\n\nThe march, and repeal movement, was criticised by some anti-abortion writers.\n\nSome participants thought the coverage of the event on RTÉ, Ireland's national broadcaster, was insufficient, and organised a follow-up picket of RTÉ studios. \n\nIn 2016, the Irish government convened a Citizens' Assembly to make non-binding recommendations on this constitutional ban on abortion, and it was still deliberating on the day of the protest. the Assembly hasn't finished its work. The protest also took place as details about the Bon Secours Mother and Baby Home in Tuam were being revealed, with some posters referencing those events.\n\n"}
{"id": "12753911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12753911", "title": "Sumiteru Taniguchi", "text": "Sumiteru Taniguchi\n\nIn early 1943, Taniguchi began working as a carrier for the Nishiura-Kami post office in Nagasaki. On the morning of 9 August 1945, the 16-year-old Taniguchi was from the hypocenter, delivering mail on his bicycle without a shirt on due to the warm summer weather, when \"Fat Man\" exploded in the sky over Urakami. The bomb's heat flash heavily injured Taniguchi with near instant burns resulting, but the blast that arrived afterward did not cause any severe injuries to him, as he clung to the ground while buildings were blown down around him. Heavy burns melted skin from his back and left arm, but Taniguchi states that he did not bleed or feel any pain due to the nerve endings being burned away. Tired and disoriented, he walked over to a nearby munitions plant, where a female survivor assisted in cutting off loose portions of skin and rubbed machine oil on his damaged arm.\n\nCome nightfall Taniguchi was carried to a hill to rest, where he was surrounded by confused and thirsty survivors. The next morning everyone but Taniguchi was dead. During the next two days rescue teams passed by without noticing him, as he was too weak to muster a call for help. Taniguchi was finally rescued on 11 August and taken to a country clinic about 29 km (18 miles) away from Nagasaki. By mid-September he was moved to a primary school clinic in Nagasaki to receive the first course of medical treatment from a University Hospital team. The clinic was unsanitary and initial treatments proved inadequate as his wounds became infected and worsened.\n\nIn November Taniguchi was transferred to Omura Navy Hospital, where he spent the next 21 months lying on his stomach due to the severe burns on his back. During this time Taniguchi developed severe bedsores on his chest. As he recalls, \"holes opened between my ribs and the movement of my heart and other organs became visible through the skin.\" In January 1946, U.S. Marine photographer Joe O'Donnell snapped a picture of Taniguchi's back while recording the aftermath of the bombing in 50 Japanese cities; this photograph is now exhibited in museums as a graphic depiction of the injuries suffered by survivors of the bombings.\n\nThe color photograph(s) of Sumiteru Taniguchi's red back are from motion picture film taken by (attributed to) Lieutenant Herbert Sussan. Sergeant Joe O'Donnell took an earlier black and white photograph and this is included in his book, \"Japan 1945: A U.S. Marine's Photographs from Ground Zero\".\n\nBy May 1947, Taniguchi could finally sit up, and on 20 March 1949, he was discharged from the Omura hospital. His wounds were not treated properly until 1960, however, and continued to cause him great physical discomfort until his death. The improper burn healing and to some degree the delayed stochastic effects of radiation exposure during and after the bombings manifested in the growth of numerous burn keloid tumors.\n\nFrom 2007 until his death, Taniguchi had undergone ten surgeries to remove benign growths.\n\nTaniguchi devoted his life to informing people of the consequences of the 1945 atomic bombing and campaigning against nuclear proliferation. He made frequent public appearances to speak to student groups and participate in demonstrations calling for nuclear disarmament. Taniguchi gave numerous interviews recounting his experiences and was featured in Steven Okazaki's 2007 documentary \"\".\n\nTaniguchi died of cancer in Nagasaki on 30 August 2017 at the age of 88.\n\n"}
{"id": "28247040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28247040", "title": "Thames Valley Health Innovation and Education Cluster", "text": "Thames Valley Health Innovation and Education Cluster\n\nThe Thames Valley Health Innovation and Education Cluster (TVHIEC) is a publicly funded partnership authorised by the Department of Health to improve innovation and education within the NHS across the Thames Valley. It was established on 1 April 2010 and is based in Oxford.\nThe Thames Valley Health Innovation and Education Cluster is one of seventeen HIECs established by the Department of Health in January 2010 to improve the quality of healthcare through increased innovation within health/social care and applied healthcare education across England. The themes of Thames Valley HIEC are:\n\nCare Closer to Home\n\nPatient Safety\n\nIntegrated Services\n\nCapacity and Capability Development in Practice\n\nThames Valley HIEC is the mechanism by which ideas that promote the welfare of the patient make their way into working practice as soon as possible.\n\nThames valley is 15.1% short of cancer chemotherapy nurses and is 7% short of specialist cancer nurses.\n\nThe TVHIEC's governing body is the Board made up of representatives or partner organisations from NHS, Higher Education, Local Authorities, 3rd Sector and commercial organisations. The Chair leads the Board which is responsible for:\n\nDirecting the activities of the HIEC\n\nEnsuring that the governance of the Thames Valley HIEC is developed and maintained\n\nEnsuring engagement of partners\n\nThe Thames Valley HIEC Chief Executive, Dr. Catherine O'Sullivan, is responsible for the day-to-day management of the organisation.\n\nThe following partners signed the original Memorandum of Understanding:\n\n"}
{"id": "240220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240220", "title": "Unilever", "text": "Unilever\n\nUnilever is a British-Dutch transnational consumer goods company co-headquartered in London, United Kingdom and Rotterdam, Netherlands. Its products include food and beverages (about 40 percent of its revenue), cleaning agents and personal care products. It is the world's largest consumer goods company measured by 2012 revenue. It is Europe’s seventh most valuable company. Unilever is one of the oldest multinational companies; its products are available in around 190 countries.\n\nUnilever owns over 400 brands, with a turnover in 2017 of 53.7 billion euros, and thirteen brands with sales of over one billion euros: Axe/Lynx, Dove, Omo, Heartbrand ice creams, Hellmann's, Knorr, Lipton, Lux, Magnum, Rexona/Degree, Sunsilk and Surf. It is a dual-listed company consisting of Unilever plc, based in London, and Unilever N.V., based in Rotterdam. The two companies operate as a single business, with a common board of directors. Unilever is organised into four main divisions – Foods, Refreshment (beverages and ice cream), Home Care, and Personal Care. It has research and development facilities in the United Kingdom (two), the Netherlands, China, India and the United States.\n\nUnilever was founded on September 2nd, 1929, by the merger of the Dutch margarine producer Margarine Unie and the British soapmaker Lever Brothers. During the second half of the 20th century the company increasingly diversified from being a maker of products made of oils and fats, and expanded its operations worldwide. It has made numerous corporate acquisitions, including Lipton (1971), Brooke Bond (1984), Chesebrough-Ponds (1987), Best Foods (2000), Ben & Jerry's (2000), Alberto-Culver (2010), Dollar Shave Club (2016) and Pukka Herbs (2017). Unilever divested its speciality chemicals businesses to ICI in 1997. In the 2010s, under leadership of Paul Polman, the company started gradually shifted its focus towards health and beauty brands and away from food brands showing slow growth.\n\nUnilever plc has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index. Unilever N.V. has a primary listing on Euronext Amsterdam and is a constituent of the AEX index. The company is also a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index.\n\nIn 1872, Antoon Jurgens, founded the first margarine factory in the world in Oss, Netherlands. Then, in 1888, Samuel van den Bergh, also from Oss, opened his margarine factory in Kleve. These two companies merged in 1927 to form Margarine Unie.\n\nThe initial harvesting of palm oil was from British West Africa, from where news reports seen back in England showed the workers abroad in favourable conditions. In 1911, the company received a concession for 750,000 hectares of forest in Belgian Congo, mostly south of Bandundu, where a system of forced labour operated.\n\nIn 1925, Lever Brothers acquired Mac Fisheries, owner of T. Wall & Sons. In September 1929, Unilever was formed by a merger of the operations of Dutch Margarine Unie and British soapmaker Lever Brothers, with the name of the resulting company a portmanteau of the name of both companies.\n\nIn the 1930s, business grew and new ventures were launched in Africa and Latin America. The Nazi occupation of Europe during the Second World War meant that Unilever was unable to reinvest its capital into Europe, so it instead acquired new businesses in the UK and the US. In 1943, it acquired T. J. Lipton, a majority stake in Frosted Foods (owner of the Birds Eye brand) and Batchelors Peas, one of the largest vegetables canners in the UK. In 1944, Pepsodent was acquired.\n\nAfter 1945, Unilever's once successful US businesses (Lever Brothers and T.J. Lipton) began to decline. As a result, Unilever began to operate a \"hands off\" policy towards the subsidiaries, and left American management to its own devices.\n\nSunsilk was first launched in the UK in 1954. Dove was first launched in the US in 1957. Unilever took full ownership of Frosted Foods in 1957, which it renamed Birds Eye. The US-based Good Humor ice cream business was acquired in 1961.\n\nBy the mid-1960s, laundry soap and edible fats still contributed around half of Unilever's corporate profits. However, a stagnant market for yellow fats and increasing competition in detergents and soaps from Procter & Gamble forced Unilever to diversify. In 1971, Unilever acquired the British-based Lipton Ltd from Allied Suppliers. In 1978, National Starch was acquired for $487 million, marking the largest ever foreign-acquisition of a US company at that point.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s, through acquisitions, Unilever had gained 30 per cent of the Western European ice cream market. In 1982, Unilever management decided to reposition itself from an unwieldy conglomerate to a more concentrated FMCG company.\n\nIn 1984, Unilever acquired Brooke Bond (maker of PG Tips tea) for £390 million in the company's first successful hostile takeover. In 1986 Unilever strengthened its position in the world skin care market by acquiring Chesebrough-Ponds (merged from Chesebrough Manufacturing and Pond's Creams), the maker of Ragú, Pond's, Aqua-Net, Cutex, and Vaseline in another hostile takeover. In 1989, Unilever bought Calvin Klein Cosmetics, Fabergé, and Elizabeth Arden, but the latter was later sold (in 2000) to FFI Fragrances.\n\nIn 1993, Unilever acquired Breyers from Kraft, which made the company the largest ice cream manufacturer in the United States.\n\nIn 1996, Unilever merged Elida Gibbs and Lever Brothers in its UK operations. It also purchased Helene Curtis, significantly expanding its presence in the United States shampoo and deodorant market. The purchase brought Unilever the Suave and Finesse hair-care product brands and Degree deodorant brand.\n\nIn 1997, Unilever sold its speciality chemicals division, including National Starch & Chemical, Quest, Unichema and Crosfield to Imperial Chemical Industries for £4.9 billion.\n\nUnilever established a sustainable agriculture programme in 1998.\n\nIn April 2000, Unilever bought both Ben & Jerry's and Slim Fast for £1.63 billion. Later that year, the company acquired Best Foods for £13.4 billion. The Bestfoods acquisition increased Unilever's scale in foods in America, and added brands such as Knorr and Hellmann's to its portfolio. The transaction was the second largest cash acquisition in world business history. In exchange for European regulatory approval of the deal, Unilever divested itself of such well-known brands as Oxo, Lesieur, McDonnells, Bla Band Royco and Batchelors. The same year, the company bought worldwide mustard and products firm Maille. Maille had three boutiques in Europe, all of which sell mustard from the pump in the traditional Maille fashion. Paris, Dijon, France and London, UK. The merge between Best Foods and Unilever was approved by the Israeli Anti trust agency.\n\nIn 2001, Unilever split into two divisions: one for Foods and one for Home and Personal Care. In the UK, it merged its Lever Brothers and Elida Faberge businesses as Lever Faberge in January 2001.\n\nIn September 2002, the company sold its specialty oils and fats division, Loders Croklaan, for RM814 million (€218.5 million) to IOI Corporation, a Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia-based oil palm company. As part of the deal, the Loders Croklaan brand will be maintained.\n\nAlso in 2002, Unilever sold the Mazola, Argo & Kingsfords, Karo, Golden Griddle, and Henri's brands, along with several Canadian brands, to ACH Food Companies, an American subsidiary of Associated British Foods.\n\nIn 2004, Unilever sold its share in Rushdi food industry to the Bashir family which started to use the Baracke brand name. As of 2014 Roshadi food industries was one of the three largest tahini producers in Israel and one of the largest producers of Tahini worldwide.\n\nIn May 2007, Unilever became the first large-scale company to commit to sourcing all its tea in a sustainable manner, employing the Rainforest Alliance, an international environmental NGO, to certify its tea estates in East Africa, as well as third-party suppliers in Africa and other parts of the world. It declared its aim to have all Lipton Yellow Label and PG Tips tea bags sold in Western Europe certified by 2010, followed by all Lipton tea bags globally by 2015.\n\nIn September 2009, Unilever agreed to acquire the personal care business of Sara Lee Corporation, including brands such as Radox, Badedas and Duschdas, strengthening its category leadership in skin cleansing and deodorants. The Sara Lee acquisition was completed on 6 December 2010.\n\nIn August 2010, Unilever signed an asset purchase agreement with the Norwegian dairy group TINE, to acquire the activities of Diplom-Is in Denmark. \n\nIn September 2010, Unilever announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to sell its consumer tomato products business in Brazil to Cargill. \n\nIn September 2010, Unilever purchased Alberto-Culver, a maker of personal care and household products including Simple, VO5, Nexxus, TRESemmé, and Mrs. Dash, for US$3.7 billion.\n\nIn September 2010, Unilever and EVGA announced that they had signed an agreement under which Unilever would acquire EVGA's ice cream brands (amongst others, Scandal, Variete and Karabola) and distribution network in Greece, for an undisclosed amount.\n\nIn February 2011, Unilever announced that it will switch to 100% cage-free eggs for all products it produces worldwide.\n\nIn March 2011, it was announced that Unilever had entered into a binding agreement to sell the Sanex brand to Colgate-Palmolive for €672 million, and that Unilever would acquire Colgate-Palmolive's laundry detergent brands in Colombia (Fab, Lavomatic and Vel) for US$215 million. \n\nIn April 2011, Unilever was fined €104 million by the European Commission for establishing a price-fixing cartel in Europe along with P&G, who was fined €211.2 million, and Henkel (not fined). Though the fine was set higher at first, it was discounted by 10% after Unilever and P&G admitted running the cartel. As the provider of the tip-off leading to investigations, Henkel was not fined. \n\nIn August 2011, it was announced that Unilever had agreed to sell the Alberto VO5 brand in the United States and Puerto Rico, and the Rave brand globally, to Brynwood Partners VI L.P. \n\nIn October 2011, it was announced that Unilever had agreed to acquire 82% of the Russia-based beauty company Kalina.\n\nIn December 2012, it was announced that Unilever would phase out the use of microplastics in the form of microbeads in their personal care products by 2015.\n\nIn January 2013, Unilever agreed to sell the Skippy peanut butter brand, together with related manufacturing facilities in Little Rock, Arkansas, United States and Weifang, Shandong, China, to Hormel Foods for approximately $700 million (£433 million, or approximately €540 million) in cash. \n\nIn July 2013, Unilever increased its stake in its Indian unit, Hindustan Unilever, to 67% for around €2.45 billion. \n\nIn August 2013, Unilever announced that it had signed an agreement for the sale of its Wish-Bone and Western dressings brands to Pinnacle Foods Inc. for a total cash consideration of approximately US$580 million, subject to regulatory approval. \nOn 6 September 2013, Unilever entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the premium Australian tea brand T2.\n\nIn February 2014, Unilever signed a definitive agreement for the sale of its meat snacks business, including Peperami (UK/Ireland) and BIFI (continental Europe) to Jack Link's, for an undisclosed amount. \n\nIn March 2014, Unilever agreed to acquire a majority stake in the China-based water purification company Qinyuan, which makes water purifiers, drinking water equipment and water treatment membranes, for an undisclosed price. \n\nOn 22 May 2014, the company announced it had sold its North America pasta sauces business including the Ragú and Bertolli brands to Japanese company Mizkan in a deal worth $2.15 billion. \n\nOn 10 July 2014, Unilever announced that it had sold its Slim-Fast brand to Kainos Capital, yet retained a minority stake in the business.\n\nOn 2 December 2014, Unilever announced that it had acquired Talenti Gelato & Sorbetto. Minneapolis-based Talenti, which was founded in 2003, had grown into the best-selling packaged gelato in the United States. \n\nOn 22 December 2014, Unilever announced the purchase of the Camay brand globally and the Zest brand outside of North America and the Caribbean from Procter & Gamble.\n\nIn November 2014, Unilever filed a lawsuit against rival Hampton Creek. In the suit, Unilever revealed that Hampton Creek is \"seizing market share\" and the losses are causing Unilever \"irreparable harm.\" Unilever used standard of identity regulations in claiming that Hampton Creek's Just Mayo products are falsely advertised because they don't contain eggs.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" headline on the suit read \"Big Food's Weird War Over The Meaning of Mayonnaise.\" \"The Los Angeles Times\" began its story with \"Big Tobacco, Big Oil, now Big Mayo?\" A Wall Street Journal writer described that with \"Giant corporation generates huge quantities of free advertising and brand equity for tiny rival by suing it.\"\n\nIn December 2014, Unilever dropped the claim.\n\nIn March 2015, Unilever confirmed it had reached an agreement to acquire REN Skincare, a British niche skincare brand. This was followed in May 2015 by the acquisition of Kate Somerville Skincare LLC.\n\nIn July 2015, the company separated its food spreads business, including its Flora and I Can't Believe It's Not Butter! brands, into a standalone entity named Unilever Baking, Cooking and Spreading. The separation was first announced in December 2014 and was made in response to declining worldwide sales in that product category.\n\nIn October 2015, Unilever agreed to acquire the Italian premium ice cream maker GROM for an undisclosed amount.\n\nIn July 2016, Unilever bought the US start-up Dollar Shave Club for a reported $1b (£764m) in order to compete in the male grooming market. On 16 August 2016, Unilever acquired Blueair, a supplier of mobile indoor air purification technologies. In September 2016, Unilever acquired Seventh Generation Inc. for $700 million. On 16 December 2016, Unilever acquired Living Proof Inc, a hair care products business.\n\nOn 17 February 2017, significantly smaller Kraft Heinz made a $143 billion bid for Unilever. The deal was declined by Unilever. On 20 April 2017, Unilever acquired Sir Kensington’s, a New York-based condiment maker. On 15 May 2017, the company acquired the personal care and home care brands of Quala, a Latin American consumer goods company. In June, the company acquired Hourglass, a colour cosmetics brand. In July, the company then announced that it had acquired the organic herbal tea business, Pukka Herbs.\n\nIn September 2017 Unilever acquired Weis, an Australian ice cream business. On 7 September it acquired Pukka Herbs, Bristol-based organic herbal tea and supplement company. Later that month Unilever acquired Remgro’s interest in Unilever South Africa in exchange for the Unilever South Africa spreads business plus cash consideration. Even later that month, Unilever agreed to acquire Carver Korea, with 2.7billion USD,a skincare business brand of AHC in North Asia.\n\nIn October, Unilever acquired Brazilian natural and organic food business Mãe Terra. In November 2017, Unilever announced an agreement to acquire the Tazo speciality tea brand from Starbucks. Later in November 2017, the company acquired Sundial Brands, a skincare company. In December 2017, Unilever acquired Schmidt's Naturals, a US natural deodorant and soap company.\n\nIn March 2018, the company announced that its headquarters will be moved completely to Rotterdam, ending its dual Anglo-Dutch structure. A shareholder vote will take place in October 2018 to decide for the listing of a new Unilever Dutch entity, which could potentially see Unilever dropping out of the FTSE 100 Index. This was cancelled on 5 October 2018.\n\nOn October 1, 2018, they closed an acquisition of a 75% stake in the Italian personal-care business Equilibra.\n\nIn 2018, UK recruitment website Indeed named Unilever as the UK's ninth best private sector employer based on millions of employee ratings and reviews.\n\nIn December 2017, Unilever sold its margarine and spreads division to investment firm KKR for €6.8bn. The sale was completed in July 2018, and the new company was named Upfield. Upfield's notable brands include Flora, Stork, I Can't Believe It's Not Butter, Rama, Country Crock, Becel, and Blue Band.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Unilever reported earnings of US$6.842 billion, with an annual revenue of US$60.714 billion, an increase of 4.3% over the previous fiscal cycle. Unilever's shares traded at over $51 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$92.6 billion in September 2018.\nUnilever is organised into four main divisions: Personal Care (production and sale of skin care and hair care products, deodorants and oral care products); Foods (production and sale of soups, bouillons, sauces, snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, margarines and spreads); Refreshment (production and sale of ice cream, tea-based beverages, weight-management products and nutritionally enhanced staples sold in developing markets); and Home Care (production and sale of home care products including powders, liquids and capsules, soap bars and other cleaning products). In the financial year ended 31 December 2013, Unilever had a total turnover of €49.797 billion of which 36% was from Personal Care, 27% from Foods, 19% from Refreshment and 18% from Home Care. Unilever invested a total of €1.04 billion in research and development in 2013.\n\nUnilever is one of the largest media buyers in the world, and invested around €6 billion (US$8 billion) in advertising and promotion in 2010.\n\nUnilever's largest international competitors are Nestlé and Procter & Gamble. It also faces competition in local markets or specific product ranges from numerous companies, including Beiersdorf, ConAgra, Danone, Henkel, Mars, PepsiCo, Reckitt Benckiser and S. C. Johnson & Son. Unilever was fined by Autorité de la concurrence in France in 2016 for price-fixing on personal hygiene products.\n\nUnilever's products include foods, beverages, cleaning agents and personal care products. The company owns more than 400 brands, which are organised into four main categories - Foods, Refreshments, Home Care, and Beauty & Personal Care. Unilever's current largest-selling brands include: Axe/Lynx, Ben & Jerry's, Dove, Heartbrand, Hellmann's/Best Foods, Knorr, Lipton, Lux/Radox, Omo/Surf, Rexona/Sure, Sunsilk, TRESemmé, Magnum, Vaseline and VO5. Unilever's Standard Industrial Classification codes are 10890: Manufacture of other food products n.e.c., 10410: Manufacture of oils and fats, and 10420: Manufacture of margarine and similar edible fats.\n\nUnilever has two holding companies: Unilever N.V., which has its registered and head office in Rotterdam, Netherlands, and Unilever plc, which has its registered office at Port Sunlight in Merseyside, United Kingdom and its head office at Unilever House in London, United Kingdom. Unilever plc and Unilever N.V. and their subsidiary companies operate as nearly as practicable as a single economic entity, whilst remaining separate legal entities with different shareholders and separate stock exchange listings.\n\nThere are a series of legal agreements between the parent companies, together with special provisions in their respective Articles of Association, which are known as the Foundation Agreements. A key requirement of the agreements is that the same people be on the Boards of the two parent companies. An Equalisation Agreement regulates the mutual rights of shareholders in Unilever plc and Unilever N.V. with the objective of ensuring that, in principle, it does not make any financial difference to hold shares in Unilever plc rather than Unilever N.V. (and vice versa).\n\nOn 15 March 2018, Unilever announced its intention to simplify this structure by centralising the duality of legal entities and keeping just one headquarters in Rotterdam, abandoning the London head office. Business groups and staff are unaffected, as is the dual listing. On 5 October 2018 the group announced it would cancel the restructuring due to concern that the UK shareholders would lose value if the company fell out of the London FTSE100. In January 2019, Alan Jope will succeed Paul Polman as the chief executive officer.\n\nPaul Polman was named Unilever's CEO in 2009. He was previously chief financial officer for Nestle and also worked for Proctor and Gamble. Prior to Polman, Patrick Cescau served as CEO. Unilever's highest executive body is the Unilever Leadership Executive. Members of the Unilever Leadership Executive have included chief financial officer Graeme Pitkethly, and chief operating officer Harish Manwani. \n\nMembers of the Unilever Leadership Executive have included:\n\nUnilever's non-executive directors have included:\n\nIn 1930, the logo of Unilever was in a sans-serif typeface and all-caps. The current Unilever corporate logo was introduced in 2004 and was designed by Wolff Olins, a brand consultancy agency. The 'U' shape is now made up of 25 distinct symbols, each icon representing one of the company's sub-brands or its corporate values. The brand identity was developed around the idea of \"adding vitality to life.\"\n\nDove describes itself as being dedicated to \"help ... women develop a positive relationship with the way they look – helping them raise their self-esteem and realize their full potential\". (Dove, \"Our Vision\") Dove employs the use of advertising for their own products to display their messages of positive self-esteem. In September 2004 Dove created a Real Beauty campaign, focusing predominately on women of all shapes and colour. Later in 2007 this campaign furthered itself to include women of all ages. This campaign consisted mostly of advertisements, shown on television and popularised by the internet. Dove fell under scrutiny from the general public as they felt the Dove advertisements described the opinion that cellulite was still unsightly, and that women's ageing process was something to be ashamed of.\n\nAxe, known as Lynx in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, is a toiletries brand marketed towards young men between the age of 16 and 24. Its marketing is a \"tongue-in-cheek take on the 'mating game'\", suggesting that women are instantly drawn to men using the products. Unlike Dove's long running beauty campaign Lynx advertising often creates mini series of advertisements based around a singular product rather than communicating an overarching idea. This campaign thrives on controversy. Using images which the company knows will receive complaints about garners the brand more free publicity and notoriety. A wide variety of these adverts have been banned in countries around the world. In 2012 Lynx's 'Clean Balls' advert was banned. This advert designed for television shows an attractive young woman cleaning various sport balls. In 2011 in the UK Lynx's shower gel campaign was banned. The poster for Lynx shower gel showed a woman in an undone bikini under a shower at a beach, with the headline: \"The cleaner you are the dirtier you get.\"\n\nBoth advertising campaigns make stark comparisons between how women and their sexuality are portrayed in advertising and sales efficiency. Lynx commonly portrays women as hypersexual, flawless and stereotypically attractive who are aroused by men, of all ages and stature, for their use of the Lynx product. Their target audience is single men between the ages of 16-24.\n\nUnilever has declared the goal of decoupling its environmental impact from its growth, by: halving the environmental footprint of its products over the next 10 years; helping 1 billion people improve their health and well-being; and sourcing all of its agricultural raw materials sustainably.\n\nUnilever has been criticised by Greenpeace for causing deforestation,\nUnilever was targeted in 2008 by Greenpeace UK, which criticised the company for buying palm oil from suppliers that are damaging Indonesia's rainforests. By 2008, Indonesia was losing 2% of its remaining rainforest each year, having the fastest deforestation rate of any country. The United Nations Environmental Programme stated that palm oil plantations are the leading cause of deforestation in Indonesia.\n\nFurthermore, Indonesia was the fourteenth largest emitter of greenhouse gases largely due to the destruction of rainforests for the palm oil industry, which contributed to 4% of global green house gas emissions. According to Greenpeace, palm oil expansion was taking place with little oversight from central or local government as procedures for environmental impact assessment, land-use planning and ensuring a proper process for development of concessions were neglected. Plantations that were off-limits, by law, for palm oil plantations were being established as well as the illegal use of fire to clear forest areas was commonplace.\n\nUnilever, as a founding member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), responded by publicising its plan to obtain all of its palm oil from sources that are certified as sustainable by 2015. It claims to have met this goal in 2012 and is encouraging the rest of the industry to become 100% sustainable by 2020.\n\nIn Côte d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast), one of Unilever's palm oil suppliers was accused of clearing forest for plantations, an activity that threatened a primate species, Miss Waldron's red colobus. Unilever intervened to halt the clearances pending the results of an environmental assessment.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International in 2016 Unilever palm oil provider Wilmar International profited from 8 to 14 year old child labor and forced labor. Some workers were extorted, threatened or not paid for work. Some workers suffered severe injuries from banned chemicals. In 2016 Singapore-based Wilmar International was the world’s biggest palm oil grower.\n\nFor years, Unilever purchased paper for its packaging from Asia Pulp & Paper, the third largest paper producer in the world, which was labelled as a \"forest criminal\" for destroying \"precious habitat\" in Indonesia's rainforest. In 2011, when Unilever cancelled its contract with Asia Pulp & Paper, Greenpeace Executive Director Phil Radford commended the company for efforts made towards forest protection, for \"taking rainforest conservation seriously.\"\n\nUnilever certifies its tea products by the Rainforest Alliance scheme. The company has stated that at least 50% of the tea in its products originates from certified farms, compared to the Alliance's 30% minimum entry point. Unilever decided on the scheme over Fairtrade, because according to the company's analysis, Fairtrade might \"lack the scale and the organizational flexibility to certify industrial tea estates\".\n\nThe Rainforest Alliance certification scheme has been criticised for not offering producers minimum or guaranteed price, therefore leaving them vulnerable to market price variations. The alternative certificate, Fairtrade, has however received similar criticism as well. The Rainforest Alliance certification has furthermore been criticised for allowing the use of the seal on products that contain only a minimum of 30% of certified content, which according to some endangers the integrity of the certification.\n\nA mercury thermometer factory operated by the Indian subsidiary of Unilever in the South Indian hilltown of Kodaikanal was shut down by state regulators in 2001 after the company was caught for dumping toxic mercury wastes in a densely populated part of town. By the company’s own admissions, more than 2 tonnes of mercury have been discharged into Kodaikanal’s environment. A 2011 Government of India study on workers’ health concluded that many workers suffered from illnesses caused by workplace exposure to mercury. The scandal opened up a series of issues in India such as corporate liability, corporate accountability and corporate negligence.\n\nThe mercury contamination in Kodaikanal originated at a thermometer factory that was owned by Hindustan Unilever. Unilever acquired the thermometer factory from cosmetics maker Pond's India Ltd. Pond's moved the factory from the United States to India in 1982 after the plant owned there by its parent, Chesebrough-Pond's, had to be dismantled following increased awareness in developed countries of polluting industries. In 1987, Pond's India and the thermometer factory went to Hindustan Unilever when it acquired Cheseborough-Pond's globally.\n\nThe factory imported mercury from the United States, and exported finished thermometers to markets in the United States and Europe. Around 2001, a number of workers at the factory began complaining of kidney and related ailments. Public interest groups such as Tamil Nadu Alliance Against Mercury (TNAAC) alleged that the Company had been disposing mercury waste without following proper protocols. In early 2001, public interest groups unearthed a pile of broken glass thermometers with remains of Mercury from an interior of part of the shola forest, which they suspected could have come from the company. In March 2001, a public protest led by local workers' union and international environmental organisation Greenpeace forced the company to shut down the factory. Soon the company admitted that it did dispose of mercury contaminated waste. The company said in its 2002 annual report and its latest Sustainability Report that it did not dump glass waste contaminated with mercury on the land behind its factory, but only a quantity of 5.3 metric tonnes of glass containing 0.15% residual mercury had been sold to a scrap recycler located about three kilometers from the factory, in breach of the company procedures. Quoting a report prepared by an international environmental consultant, Unilever said there was no health effect on the workers of the factory or any impact on the environment.\n\nHowever, in March 2016 Unilever reached an out of court settlement (for an undisclosed amount) with 591 ex-workers of the unit who had sued the company for knowingly exposing them to the toxic element. This was subsequent to the launch of a music video Kodaikanal Won’t, which received over 3 million hits and a global petition to the Unilever CEO Paul Polman signed by over 150,000 people in over 100 countries. \n\nUnilever simultaneously announced its plan to remediate the mercury contaminated soils inside the factory premises. A 2002 report by Unilever's consultant, URS Dames & Moore found elevated concentrations of mercury (0.031mg/L or 31 ug/L and 0.085 mg/L or 85 ug/L) in two surface water samples that were collected on site following a heavy storm. The samples mentioned in the report were 40 and 110 times higher than the levels recommended by US Environmental Protection Agency for freshwater, and between 3100 times and 8500 times higher than USEPA recommendation for water quality if humans consume fish from the river segment in question. Furthermore, a 2002 study by a Department of Atomic Energy laboratory of the Government of India found that mercury levels in air near the factory were above nominal levels by between 132 and 660 times. \n\nThe company initiated a trial clean up of the soils between September and November 2017 during which it attempted to remediate 87 tons of soils. The remediation proposal has challenged by the local communities and activists for being in violation of international best standards. \n\nIn July 2016, rumours about salmonella contamination in cereals spread among Israeli consumers. Initially, Unilever did not provide public information about the subject and queries on the matter were initially rebuffed by the company as a non-story and nonsense. On the night of 26 July 2016, Unilever had stopped transferring cornflakes to retailer chains. On 28 July, Yediot Ahronot reported tens of thousands of boxes of breakfast cereal had been destroyed. By 28 July, despite the company's assurances that nothing contaminated was released for consumption, many customers stopped buying Unilever products and started to throw away all cornflakes made by Unilever. The company withheld the information about what were the affected production dates.\n\nOn 2 August 2016, \"Globes\" reported that the company has published more information about Telma cereals handled on the packaging line in which the contamination was discovered and that a Telma announcement had been made: \"We again stress that all Telma products in the stores and in your homes are safe to eat. According to our company's strict procedures, every production batch is checked and put on hold. These products are not marketed until test results for this production series are returned, confirming that all is well. If any flaw is discovered, the batch is not marketed to stores, as was the case.\" In the following days the Health Minister, Yakov Litzman, threatened to pull Unilever's licence in Israel. He accused Unilever of lying to his ministry regarding salmonella-infected breakfast cereals.\n\nOn 7 August, \"Globes\" reported that contamination may be sourced in pigeon faeces, the Health ministry said that there might be other sources for the contamination and pigeon faeces are not the only possible source. Globes also said that the production line is automatic (\"without human hands\") and the possibility that the source is human is a very slim chance. On 8 August 2016, the Israeli Health minister suspended a manufacturing licence until Unilever carry out a number of corrections; the action came after an inspection of the Arad plant, stating \"This was a series of negligent mistakes, and not an incident with malicious intent by the firm's management and quality control procedures.\" An investigation led by Prof. Itamr Grutto and Eli Gordon concluded that the event was caused by negligence.\n\nOn 23 September it was reported that the cereals produced between the 18th and 20th at the Arad plant had traces of salmonella.\n\nA filed class action must first be approved by an Israeli court, after an approval the case will be held.\n\n\nOn 31 August, Unilever stated that the Tehina products produced by RJM had been contaminated by salmonella.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1045978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045978", "title": "Wine and food matching", "text": "Wine and food matching\n\nWine and food matching is the process of pairing food dishes with wine to enhance the dining experience. In many cultures, wine has had a long history of being a staple at the dinner table and in some ways both the winemaking and culinary traditions of a region will have evolved together over the years. Rather than following a set of rules, local cuisines were paired simply with local wines. The modern \"art\" of food pairings is a relatively recent phenomenon, fostering an industry of books and media with guidelines for pairings of particular foods and wine. In the restaurant industry, sommeliers are often present to make food pairing recommendations for the guest. The main concept behind pairings is that certain elements (such as texture and flavor) in both food and wine interact with each other, and thus finding the right combination of these elements will make the entire dining experience more enjoyable. However, taste and enjoyment are very subjective and what may be a \"textbook perfect\" pairing for one taster could be less enjoyable to another.\n\nWhile there are many books, magazines and websites with detailed guidelines on how to pair food and wine, most food and wine experts believe that the most basic element of food and wine pairing is understanding the balance between the \"weight\" of the food and the weight (or body) of the wine. Heavy, robust wines like Cabernet Sauvignon can overwhelm a light, delicate dish like a quiche, while light-bodied wines like Pinot Grigio would be similarly overwhelmed by a hearty stew. Beyond weight, flavors and textures can either be contrasted or complemented. From there a food and wine pairing can also take into consideration the sugar, acid, alcohol and tannins of the wine and how they can be accentuated or minimized when paired with certain types of food.\n\nWine has had a long history of being served as an accompaniment to food. The early history of wine has it origins as another dietary staple and a beverage that was often more sanitary than the local water supply. There is little evidence that much serious thought was given to pairing particular dishes to particular wines with most likely whatever wine was available being used. However, as culinary traditions in a region developed, so too did local winemaking tradition.\n\nMany pairings that are considered \"classics\" today emerged from the centuries-old relationship between a region's cuisine and their wines. In Europe, lamb was a staple meat of the diet for many areas that today are leading wine regions. The red wines of regions such as Bordeaux, Greece, Rioja, Ribera del Duero, Rhone and Provence are considered classic pairings with the lamb dishes found in the local cuisines of those regions. In Italy, the intimate connection between food and wine is deeply embedded in the culture and is exemplified by the country's wine. Historically, Italians rarely dined without wine and a region's wine was crafted to be \"food friendly\", often with bright acidity. While some Italian wines may seem tannic, lean or tart by themselves they often will show a very different profile when paired with boldly flavored Italian foods.\n\nThere have been some historical anecdotes that have related to food and wine pairing before modern times. One anecdote often attributed to British wine merchants is \"Buy on an apple and sell on cheese\" meaning that if a wine tastes good when paired with a raw, uncooked apple it must be truly good and pairing any wine with cheese will make it more palatable to the average consumer and easier to sell. The principles behind this anecdote lies in the food pairing properties of both fruit and cheeses. Fruits that are high in sugar and acidity (such as the malic acid in green apples) can make wines taste metallic and thin bodied. In contrast, hard cheeses such as cheddar can soften the tannins in wines and make them taste fuller and fruitier.\n\nAnother historical anecdote, still repeated today, is \"White wine with fish; Red wine with meat\". The root of this adage rests on the principle of matching the body (weight) of the wine with the weight of the food. Meat was generally heavier and \"red\" in color so it was assumed that a red wine (which was usually heavier than white wine) paired better. Similarly fish was generally light and \"white\" in color so it was often paired with white wine. This adage has become outdated somewhat due to the variety of wine styles prevalent in modern winemaking where there are now many \"heavy\" white wines such as \"New World\" oaky Chardonnay that can have more body than lighter reds such as Pinot noir or Italian Merlots.\n\nAnother older idea was \"to pair strong cheeses with strong wines,\" for example, asiago, a sharply flavored cheese, with zinfandel, a dark red wine with fruit tones.\n\nIn recent years, the popularity and interest in food and wine pairings have increased and taken on new connotations. Industries have sprung up with print publications and media dedicated to expounding on the principles and ideals of pairing the perfect wine with the perfect dish. In the restaurant industry, there is often a dedicated individual or staff of sommeliers who are trained to recommend wine pairings with the restaurant's fare. The origins of this recent phenomenon can be traced to the United States in the 1980s when the wine industry began to advertise wine-drinking as a component of dining rather than as just an alcoholic beverage meant for consumption and intoxication. Winemakers started to emphasize the kind of food dishes that their wines would go well with, some even printing pairing suggestions on back wine labels. Food magazines began to suggest particular wines with recipes and restaurants would offer multi-course dinners matched with a specific wine for each course.\n\nToday there are multiple sources for detailed guidelines and tips on food and wine pairing. But many wine drinkers select wine pairings based on instinct, the mood of the meal or simply a desire to drink a particular wine at the moment they desire to eat a particular meal. The subjective nature of taste makes it possible to drink any kind of wine with any kind of food and have an enjoyable experience. Wine expert Mark Oldman has noted \"Food and Wine pairing can be like sex and pizza: even when it's bad, it can still be pretty good\" and gives the example of wedding cake with a dry sparkling wine. A very dry wine with a very sweet food is, according to Oldman, \"the equivalent of nails on a chalkboard\" and is not a \"good pairing\" according to most guidelines but the atmosphere of the occasion and the subjective nature of taste can trump any rule or guideline. Today, many wine experts and advocates in the realm of food and wine pairing try to focus on the more objective physical aspects of food that have an effect on the palate, altering (or enhancing) the perception of various aspects of the wine.\n\nIn food and wine pairings, the most basic element considered is \"weight\"-the balance between the weight of the food (a heavy, red sauce pasta versus a more delicate salad) and the weight or \"body\" of the wine (a heavy Cabernet Sauvignon versus a more delicate Pinot grigio). In wine tasting, body is determined primarily by the alcohol level of the wine and can be influenced by the perceptions of tannins (from the grape skins or oak) and extract (the dissolved solids in the wine derived from winemaking processes like extended maceration and sur lie aging). An oaked Chardonnay from a warm wine region, such as Australia will be \"heavier\" in body than a stainless steel fermented Chardonnay from a cooler wine region such as Chablis. Pairing heavy wines with light dishes or vice versa, can result in one partner overwhelming the other. The \"weight\" of a food can also be described in terms of the intensity of its flavors-such as delicate and more subtle flavors versus dishes that have more robust and hearty flavors. A key to pairing upon this principle is to identify the dominant flavor of the dish. Sauces can be the dominant flavor instead of the meat or main component. While poached fish is usually light bodied and better served with a light white, if the fish is served with a heavy cream sauce it could be better balanced with a fuller bodied white wine or light red.\n\nBelow is a rough guideline of the various weights of wines. Winemaker and regional style as well as oak treatment can cause a wine to be lighter or heavier in body. For example, Pinot noir can vary from being very light to more medium bodied. Another example is the influence of regional climates. Warmer climate wine regions tend to produce wines with higher alcohol levels and thus more fuller bodied wines so that a Sauvignon blanc from California may have a heavier weight than a Sauvignon blanc from the Loire.\n\nLighter whites<br>\nPinot gris, Pinot blanc, Riesling, Sauvignon blanc, Chablis, Champagne and sparkling wines, Gruner Veltliner, Vinho Verde\n\nMedium to heavy whites<br>\nOaked Sauvignon blanc, Alsatian wines, Albarino, White Bordeaux (Semillon), White Burgundy, Rhone whites (Viognier, Roussanne, Marsanne), Tămâioasă Românească and New World Chardonnay\n\nLighter reds <br>\nBeaujolais, Dolcetto, some Pinot noir\n\nMedium reds <br>\nChianti, Barbera, Burgundy, Chinon, Rioja, Cabernet franc, Merlot, Malbec, Zinfandel, some Pinot noir\n\nHeavier reds<br>\nSyrah, Brunello di Montalcino, Cabernet Sauvignon, Port, Barbaresco and Barolo\n\nWhile a perfect balance where both food and wine are equally enhanced is theoretically possible, typically a pairing will have a more enhancing influence on one or the other. Master Sommelier Evan Goldstein notes that food and wine pairing is like two people having a conversation: \"\"One must listen while the other speaks or the result is a muddle\".\" This means either the food or the wine will be the dominant focus of the pairing, with the other serving as a complement to enhance the enjoyment of the first. In regards to weight and intensity, if the focus of the pairing is the wine then a more ideal balance will be a food that is slightly lighter in weight to where it will not compete for attention with the wine but not too light to where it is completely overwhelmed. If the focus of the pairing is to highlight a dish then the same thought would apply in pairing a wine.\n\nAfter considering weight, pairing the flavors and texture can be dealt with using one of two main strategies — complement or contrast.\n\nThe first strategy tries to bring wine together with dishes that complement each other such as an earthy, Burgundian Pinot noir with an earthy, mushroom dish.\n\nThe second strategy operates under the truism that \"opposites attract\" and brings together food and wine that have contrasting traits such as a crisp, acidic Sauvignon blanc and a fish with a creamy lemon sauce. The crisp acidity of the wine serves as a contrast that can cut through the creaminess of the sauce and give a different, refreshing sensation for the palate as opposed to what a complementary pairing, such as a creamy, buttery Chardonnay, would bring. For most of history, the \"complementary strategy\" was the prevailing thought on food and wine pairing. In the 1980s, as more people started to discover and experiment with pairings, the idea of using contrast started to gain more favor. It follows the same idea that the \"salty/sweet\" pairing does in cooking (such as salty peanut butter with sweet jelly).\n\nThe same food may be complemented \"or\" contrasted: a hard, nutty cheese such as Hirtenkase should have \"a nutty, slightly sweet wine with it,\" \"or\" a full bodied red wine.\n\nWhile it is often said that \"taste is subjective\", there are quantifiable taste characteristics (like bitter, sweet, salty or sour) that can be perceived and measured as low, moderate or high—such as measuring the sweetness of honey or the saltiness of oysters. Flavors, such as butterscotch, char and strawberry, are more personal and can't be quantifiable. Flavors are either perceived to be present or not. The perception of flavors is linked to our sense of smell, while tastes come from the sensory glands of the taste buds. Though individual sensitivity to the different taste \"senses\" can vary, wine experts will often recommend pairings based on these more objective measurements rather than the more subjective concept of \"flavors\". In wine there are three basic tastes-bitter, sweet and sour. These three tastes can each be identified with a primary component of the wine-tannins (bitter), residual sugar (sweet) and acidity (sour). A fourth component, alcohol, is identified in wine tasting with a perception of \"heat\" or hotness in the back of the mouth and is the primary factor influencing the body of the wine. The residual heat of the alcohol can be considered in food pairing with some ingredients minimizing the heat of the wine while some will accentuate it.\n\nAcidity is a dominant player in any food and wine pairing due to the pronounced and complex ways that it can heighten the perception of flavors. In wine tasting, acidity is perceived by a mouth watering response by the salivary glands. This mouth watering can also serve to stimulate the appetite. In wine there are three main acids that have their own associated flavors-malic (green apples), lactic (milky) and tartaric (bitter). In dishes that are fatty, oily, rich or salty, acidity in wine can \"cut\" (or standout and contrast) through the heaviness and be a refreshing change of pace on the palate. In cooking, acidity is often used in similar fashions such as a lemon wedges with a briny seafood dish such as oysters. The acidity of the lemon juices can make the oysters seem less briny. A wine that is less tart than the dish it is served with will taste thin and weak. A wine that comes across as \"too tart\" on its own may seem softer when paired with an acidic and tart dish. The complementing \"tartness\" of the food and wine cancels each other out and allows the other components (fruit of the wine, other flavors of the food) to be more noticeable.\n\nThe sweetness of wines is determined by the amount of residual sugar left in the wine after the fermentation process. Wines can be bone dry (with the sugars fully fermented into alcohol), off-dry (with a hint of sweetness), semi-dry (medium-sweet) and dessert level sweetness (such as the high sugar content in Sauternes and Tokays). Sweet wines often need to be sweeter than the dish they are served with. Vintage brut champagne paired with sweet, wedding cake can make the wine taste tart and weak while the cake will have off flavors. In food pairings, sweetness balances spice and heat. It can serve as a contrast to the heat and alleviate some of the burning sensation caused by peppers and spices, e.g. in Thai or Sichuan cuisine. It can accentuate the mild sweetness in some foods and can also contrast with salt such as the European custom of pairing salty Stilton cheese with a sweet Port. Sweetness in a wine can balance tartness in food, especially if the food has some sweetness (such as dishes with sweet & sour sauces).\n\nThe astringency associated with wine is usually derived from a wine's tannins. Tannins add a gritty texture and chalky, astringent taste. It can enhance the perception of \"body\" or weight in the wine. Tannins are normally derived from the skins, seeds, and stems of the grapes themselves (leeched out during the maceration process) or from contact with oak during barrel aging. Tannins react with proteins. When paired with dishes that are high in proteins and fats (such as red meat and hard cheeses), the tannins will bind to the proteins and come across as softer. In the absence of protein from the food, such as some vegetarian dishes, the tannins will react with the proteins on the tongue and sides of the mouth—accentuating the astringency and having a drying effect on the palate. Various cooking methods, such as grilling and blackening can add a bitter \"char\" component to the dish that will allow it to play well with a tannic wine. While fish oils can make tannic wines taste metallic or off. Astringent tannic wines like Barolo and Cabernet Sauvignon can overwhelm a lot of foods but can be soften by fatty foods with a lot of proteins such as hard cheeses or meats. The dry tannins also serve as a cleansing agent on the palate by binding to the grease and oils left over in the mouth. Spicy and sweet foods can accentuate the dry, bitterness of tannins and make the wine seem to have off flavors.\n\nAlcohol is the primary factor in dictating a wine's weight and body. Typically the higher the alcohol level, the more weight the wine has. An increase in alcohol content will increase the perception of density and texture. In food and wine pairing, salt and spicy heat will accentuate the alcohol and the perception of \"heat\" or hotness in the mouth. Conversely, the alcohol can also magnify the heat of spicy food making a highly alcoholic wine paired with a very spicy dish one that will generate a lot of heat for the taster.\n\nBeyond the basic guidelines listed above, food pairings can dive even further into matching several layers of texture and flavors. The term \"bridge ingredients\" refers to ingredients and flavors that have certain affinities in wine pairing (such as slow-cooked onions with creamy wines, etc.). It can also refer to using particular herbs and spices perceived in the wine (such as rosemary in some Cabernet Sauvignon) and adding them to the dish as an ingredient. Their presence in a dish may increase the likelihood that the certain wines will pair well.\n\nThe above principles can be used for pairing wines with Asian cuisine. Pair for the flavor of the dish - whatever the 'main ingredient' may be - it is not the meat, seafood, or vegetables that stand out as the predominant flavor. Rather the true flavor of the dish is determined by the cooking method (for example, the toasty flavors of a stir fry), the sauce (from curries to sweet-and-sour), the use of seasonings (such as ginger and coriander leaves to mask fishy tastes), or the blending of ingredients to for new flavors (as in sukiyaki or satay). Indeed, it may result from a combination of any of these elements. Also, note that in the case of an Asian meal, several dishes are served at the same time and are shared by everyone present. The wine chosen for such a meal has to be versatile.\n\n"}
{"id": "2580773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2580773", "title": "World AIDS Museum and Educational Center", "text": "World AIDS Museum and Educational Center\n\nThe World AIDS Museum and Educational Center, located at 1201 NE 26th St. in Wilton Manors, Florida, opened on May 15, 2014.\n\nThe AIDS Museum and Educational Center began as a HIV support group, Pozitive Attitudes (), at the Pride Center in Fort Lauderdale. The facilitator of that group was Steve Stagon and it was his idea to create an AIDS museum, in south Florida because Broward County and Miami-Dade County are \"the epicenter of the AIDS crisis in America.\" A non-profit corporation was set up and fundraising began. After various local exhibits in churches and the Pride Center, once they had enough funding they choose the location on 26th Street.\n\nOn Nov 07, 2013, Magic Johnson visited the World AIDS Museum and dedicated the space, 22 years to the day he announced his HIV status. Doors officially opened to the public in May 2014. The World AIDS Museum and Educational Center has a main gallery featuring the historical timeline of the AIDS epidemic, 2 art galleries, and a research library. They also do traveling exhibits and educational programs in the schools. The current CEO is Hugh Beswick and the Operations Manager is Ed Sparan.\n\nAuthor and AIDS activist Larry Kramer, who spoke there on March 9, 2017, remarked:\nWhat an amazing and outstanding place this is! ...Now they have funding from the state, and can...host groups of students. The exhibition, beautifly installed, has, among much else a GMHC [ Gay Men's Health Crisis ] room, an ACT UP room, and a Keith Haring room. The history of hiv/AIDS timeline is extensive, I learned a few thngs myself (and was able to point out a few things that needed correction). The docent is exceptionally knowledgeable... The board members are exceptionally committed... They take pride in claiming that Fort Lauderdale is now the largest gay community in the country. This museum certainly beats anything in San Francisco or New York. Spread the word that this place exists!\n\nIn the background of he foundation of the World AIDS Museum is a failed project to create an AIDS Museum in Newark, New Jersey. It was founded in December 2004. Plans were developed in 2006 in connection with the 25th anniversary of the AIDS pandemic. One of the museum's goals was to showcase art by HIV-positive artists.\n\nAmong the museum's (traveling) exhibits have been: \n\nThe Museum never had any paid staff or a home. Its Web site lists no activities since 2011, although it still (2017) has an active phone number and the Web site.\n\nThere is an AIDS Museum in Thailand and another being developed in South Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2891375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2891375", "title": "Y chromosome microdeletion", "text": "Y chromosome microdeletion\n\nY chromosome microdeletion \"(YCM)\" is a family of genetic disorders caused by missing gene(s) in the Y chromosome. Many men with YCM exhibit no symptoms and lead normal lives. However, YCM is also known to be present in a significant number of men with reduced fertility. Men with reduced sperm production (in up to 20% of men with reduced sperm count, some form of YCM has been detected) varies from oligozoospermia, significant lack of sperm, or azoospermia, complete lack of sperm.\n\nThe mechanism of mutation is not different for Y-chromosome microdeletion. However, the ability to repair it differs from other chromosomes. The human Y chromosome is passed directly from father to son, and is not protected against accumulating copying errors, whereas other chromosomes are error corrected by recombining genetic information from mother and father. This may leave natural selection as the primary repair mechanism for the Y chromosome.\n\nY chromosome microdeletion is currently diagnosed by extracting DNA from leukocytes in a man's blood sample, mixing it with some of the about 300 known genetic markers for sequence-tagged sites (STS) on the Y chromosome, and then using polymerase chain reaction amplification and gel electrophoresis in order to test whether the DNA sequence corresponding to the selected markers is present in the DNA.\n\nSuch procedures can test only the integrity of a tiny part of the overall 23 million base pair long Y chromosome, therefore the sensitivity of such tests depends on the choice and number of markers used. Present diagnostic techniques can only discover certain types of deletions and mutations on a chromosome and give therefore no complete picture of genetic causes of infertility. They can only demonstrate the presence of some defects, but not the absence of any possible genetic defect on the chromosome.\n\nThe gold standard test for genetic mutation, namely complete DNA sequencing of a patient's Y chromosome, is still far too expensive for use in epidemiologic research or even clinical diagnostics.\n\nMicrodeletions in the Y chromosome have been found at a much higher rate in infertile men than in fertile controls and the correlation found may still go up as improved genetic testing techniques for the Y chromosome are developed.\n\nMuch study has been focused upon the \"azoospermia factor locus\" (AZF), at Yq11. A specific partial deletion of AZFc called \"gr/gr deletion\" is significantly associated with male infertility among Caucasians in Europe and the Western Pacific region.\n\nAdditional genes associated with spermatogenesis in men and reduced fertility upon Y chromosome deletions include RBM, DAZ, SPGY, and TSPY.\n\n\n"}
