{"id": "44436263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44436263", "title": "Adela Breton", "text": "Adela Breton\n\nAdela Catherine Breton (31 December 1849 – June 1923) was an English archaeological artist and explorer. She made watercolour copies of the wall paintings of Mexican temples, notably those of the Upper Temple of Jaguars at Chichen Itza.\n\nBreton was born in London on 31 December 1849, to parents who were widely travelled. Her English father served in the Royal Navy and met Adela's mother (who was born in Somerset, England) while in Tasmania. They moved to Bath, Somerset, a few months after Adela's birth and she grew up there. During her childhood the family spent time travelling through Europe, visiting France, Switzerland and Italy. Adela probably studied art while staying in Florence. With much of her time spent in Bath, with its Roman remains, the Bretons took a keen interest in the archaeology. She stayed in Bath to look after her parents in their old age but, after her father died in 1887, she decided to travel. She made a conscious decision not to marry, so she could remain independent and satisfy her wanderlust. She initially headed for Canada (and the United States) where she painted the landscape, before returning to Bath to hold an exhibition of her paintings. In 1892 she made her first visit to Mexico. She hired a local guide, Pablo Solario.\n\nHer time in Mexico was spent travelling on horseback across the country, using her artistic skills to record the friezes, carvings and other archaeological treasures that were being unearthed in the Yucatán. Her first trip lasted 18 months, when she travelled continually making notes and sketches. As the 1890s passed, Breton spent less time on return visits to England and more time on her travels in Mexico. Her observations became more scientific and broadened to include the geology, the canyons and volcanoes. However, she is particularly known for her colour paintings of the frescos discovered at Teotihuacan in 1894, at a site that became known as Teopancaxco.\n\nBreton's travels in Mexico were eventually curtailed by the Mexican revolution in 1910. She was recognised internationally in her lifetime for her valuable contribution to Mesoamerican archaeology.\n\nShe died in Barbados in 1923 age 73.\n\nA collection of her work is held in Bristol Museum & Art Gallery, where a digitisation project was started in 2014 so that the fragile rolls of paintings can be preserved and made available for research.\n\nSome of her correspondence with Ella Lewis of Philadelphia is held in Harvard University Library.\n\nIn 2016 a four-month exhibition entitled \"The Remarkable Miss Breton\" was held at the Bath Royal Literary & Scientific Institution in Bath. In 2017 an exhibition of her original work was held at the Bristol Museum & Art Gallery.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "32519132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32519132", "title": "African-American women in politics", "text": "African-American women in politics\n\nAfrican-American women have been involved in American political issues and advocating for the community since the American Civil War era through organizations, clubs, community-based social services, and advocacy. Issues that deal with identity, and misogynoir have been important to African-American women in the political dialogue.\n\nEfforts to attain universal suffrage began during the 1860s in response to the events of the American Civil War. It was Sojourner Truth who gave a historic speech during the Women's Convention in Akron, Ohio, on May 29, 1851, that made many people stop and listen and was introduced to a wider audience when transcribed and published by Marius Robinson, an abolitionist reporter. The speech, \"Ain't I A Woman?\" discussed American white women's privilege, and the courtesies that were not given to African-American women. While African-American men attained the vote in 1870 with the passage of the 15th Amendment, African-American women were still unable to participate in political elections. It was during the 1890s that women's suffrage efforts began. During the period, African-American women were widely minimized or ignored due to racism from white suffragists or general sexism.\n\nThough women obtained the right to vote in the United States in 1920, many women of color still ran into obstacles. Some faced tests that required them to interpret the Constitution in order to vote. Others were threatened with physical violence, false charges, and other extreme danger to prevent voting. Due to these tactics and others that marginalized people of color, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was put into place. It outlawed any discriminatory acts to prevent people from voting.\n\nDespite the fact that elements of the Black Power movement had some views centered on misogyny, African-American women quickly found a voice in the movement. Women held leadership positions, ran community-based programs, and fought misogyny. Other women also contributed to the grass-roots movement through community service.\"In the age of rights, antipoverty, and power campaigns, black women in community-based and often women-centered organizations, like their female counterparts in nationally known organizations, harnessed and engendered Black Power through their speech and iconography as participants of tenant councils, welfare rights groups, and a black female religious order.\"\n\nMisogynoir is misogyny directed towards black women where race and gender both play roles in bias. It was coined by queer Black feminist Moya Bailey. The term was created to tackle the misogyny directed toward black women in American visual and popular culture as well as in politics. In the U.S political sphere, misogynoir has led to the lack of African American Women in politics. The number of African-American elected officials has increased over the last four decades, however black people remain underrepresented at all levels of government. Black Women make up less than 3% of U.S. representatives and there are no black women in the U.S. Senate.\n\nIn comparison to Black Man, Black Women tend to be more active participants in the electoral process and this could lead to more potential for Black Women to equal or surpass Black Men in the number of elected officials within their race. However, because of issues of both race and gender it has been much harder for African-American Women to rise in the political sphere. When fighting for equal voting rights, Black Women found that they were often surrounded by sexist Black Men who did not want them to rise in power, and racist White Women who did not want them to be on the same level.\n\nAfrican-American women have been underrepresented in politics within the United States, but numbers continue to increase. According to the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University, currently 13 African-American women serve in the 112th Congress, with 239 state legislators serving nationwide. The paths to public office for women in the African-American community have differed from men and other groups, such as women's organizations, rallies, and fundraisers.\nThough African-American women have run for presidential nomination in several campaigns, many have been labeled as \"non-viable\" due partly to their party affiliations, i.e., Charlene Mitchell in 1968 for the Communist Party USA, Lenora Fulani in 1988 for the New Alliance Party, and Cynthia McKinney in 2008 for the Green Party. Shirley Chisholm ran as both the \"black candidate\" and the \"woman candidate\" in the 1972 presidential campaign and \"found herself shunned by leaders from the political establishments she helped to found—the Congressional Black Caucus and the National Women's Political Caucus.\" Still, Chisholm was able to gain 151 votes at the Democratic National Convention, despite missing the presidential nomination.\n\nIn 1993, Carol Moseley Braun became the first African American woman to be elected to the United States Senate, and the only female senator from Illinois. Braun's original spark came from her anger at incumbent Democratic senator Alan Dixon's vote to confirm Clarence Thomas after his 1991 sexual harassment scandal. Shortly after being elected, Braun took a one-woman stand against the United Daughters of the Confederacy's renewal of patent for the Confederate flag as their insignia. Though Braun considered it a non-issue, she was still puzzled: \"Who would have expected a design patent for the Confederate flag?\" Incredibly, Braun was able to sway the Senate vote against renewal of the patent. The United Daughters of the Confederacy no longer uses the confederate flag as their insignia.\n\nCondoleezza Rice became the first African-American woman to serve as Secretary of State in the United States in 2005 under President George W. Bush, she also became the first woman to serve as the National Security Advisor. She was known and widely criticized for her views on foreign policy and the American War in Iraq.\n\nAlthough not in political office, Michelle Obama, the first African-American First Lady of the United States, has made an impact on women in the 21st century. Obama became first Lady of the United States in 2009, when her husband, Barack Obama, took office as President of the United States. Michelle Obama has donated her services to soup kitchens, homeless shelters, and other urban social services, but she eventually found her niche in childhood obesity. Ms. Obama has created Let's Move! in an effort to reduce childhood obesity around the nation.\n\nA number of organizations supporting African-American women have historically played an important role in politics. The National Association of Colored Women (NACW), founded in 1896 by Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin and Mary Church Terrell, is one of the oldest political groups created for and by African-American women. Among its objectives were equal rights, eliminating lynching, and defeating Jim Crow laws. Another organization, the National Council of Negro Women (NCNW), was founded in 1935 by civil rights activist Mary McLeod Bethune and was more involved in African-American politics with the aim to improve the quality of life for African-American women and families. NCNW still exists today as a non-profit organization reaching out through research, advocacy, and social services in the United States and Africa.\n\nIn 1946 Mary Fair Burks founded the Women's Political Council (WPC) as a response to discrimination in the Montgomery League of Women Voters, who refused to allow African-American women to join. The WPC sought to improve social services for the African-American community and is famously known for instigating the Montgomery Bus Boycott.\n\nIn the 1970s, the National Black Feminist Organization (NBFO) sought to address issues unique to African-American women such as racism, sexism, and classism. Though in previous years feminism and suffrage had been considered a white women's fight, NBFO \"refused to make black women choose between being black and being female.\" Margaret Sloan-Hunter, one of its founders, went on to help found \"Ms. Magazine\", a magazine focusing on a feminist take on news issues. Though the organization had disintegrated by 1977, another organization, which formed just a year after the NBFO in 1974, turned out to be one of the most important black feminist organizations of our time. Combahee River Collective was founded by African-American feminist and lesbian, Barbara Smith, and described themselves as a \"collective of Black feminists [...] involved in the process of defining and clarifying our politics, while [...] doing political work within our own group and in coalition with other progressive organizations and movements.\" Perhaps the most notable piece to come out of the Combahee River Collective was the Combahee River Collective Statement, which helped to expand on ideas about identity politics.\n\nIn 2014, political activist and women's rights leader Leslie Wimes founded the Democratic African-American Women's Caucus in Florida. She enlisted the help of Wendy Sejour and Mayor Daisy black to help African-American Women in the state of Florida have a voice. In the last two presidential elections, the turnout percentage of African-American women was greater than all other demographic groups, yet has not translated into more African-American Women in office, or political power for African-American women. Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe credits African-American Women for his win in the state. Black women-owned businesses are the fastest growing segment of the women owned business market. The DAAWC seeks to increase the number of elected African-American Women on the State and Federal levels, as well as focus on issues specific to African-American Women. While the DAAWC begins in the state of Florida, the organization is hoping to expand to other states to mobilize the political power of African-American Women.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "590407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590407", "title": "African American National Biography Project", "text": "African American National Biography Project\n\nThe African American National Biography Project is a joint project of the W. E. B. Du Bois Institute for African and African American Research and Oxford University Press. Editors are Henry Louis Gates, Jr., and Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham. \n\nThe object of the project is to publish and maintain a database of African Americans similar in scope to the \"American National Biography\". The Executive Editors of the project are Steven Niven of the WEB Du Bois Institute at Harvard University and Tony Aiello of Oxford University Press.\nThe African American National Biography was published in 2008.\n\n\n\"Adapted from the Wikinfo article African American National Biography Project, licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License.\"\n"}
{"id": "31782589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31782589", "title": "Annunciation of Fano", "text": "Annunciation of Fano\n\nThe work was successful, and a few years later he was commissioned to paint an altarpiece for the same church, the Fano Altarpiece.\n\nThe painting is set within a four bay portico, a common element in Perugino's paintings from the 1480s (as, for example, in the Albani-Torlonia Polyptych and the \"Pietà\"). Behind it, is a background with hills featuring light trees.\n\nIn the foreground is the Annunciation, lit from the left. The angel, holding a white lily (symbol of purity), announces that she will bear Jesus; Mary, who was previously reading a book on a classical altar in front of her, has a surprised face. Behind them, in the upper center, is God in an oval with cherubim and seraphim, sending the Holy Spirit (portrayed as a dove) to her.\n"}
{"id": "44225499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44225499", "title": "Architectural painting", "text": "Architectural painting\n\nArchitectural painting (also Architecture painting) is a form of genre painting where the predominant focus lies on architecture, both outdoors views and interiors. While architecture was present in many of the earliest paintings and illuminations, it was mainly used as background or to provide rhythm to a painting. In the Renaissance, architecture was used to emphasize the perspective and create a sense of depth, like in Masaccio's \"Holy Trinity\" from the 1420s.\n\nIn Western art, architectural painting as an independent genre developed in the 16th century in Flanders and the Netherlands, and reached its peak in 16th and 17th century Dutch painting. Later, it developed in a tool for Romantic paintings, with e.g. views of ruins becoming very popular. Closely related genres are architectural fantasies and trompe-l'oeils, especially illusionistic ceiling painting, and cityscapes.\n\nThe 16th century saw the development of architectural painting as a separate genre in Western art. The main centers in this period were Flanders and the Netherlands. The first important architectural painter was Dutch Hans Vredeman de Vries (1527-1607), who was both an architect and a painter. Students of Hans Vredeman de Vries, both in Flanders and in the Netherlands, include his sons Salomon and Paul, and Hendrik van Steenwijk I. Through them the genre was popularized and their family and students turned it into one of the main domains of Dutch Golden Age painting.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the 17th century, architectural painting became one of the leading genres in the Dutch Golden Age, together with portrait painting and landscapes. Notable Dutch painter of the genre include:\n\n\nArchitectural paintings, and the related vedute or cityscapes, were especially popular in 18th century Italy. Another genre closely related to architectural painting proper were the capriccios, fantasies set in and focusing on an imaginary architecture. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn China, architectural painting was called \"jiehua\", and mainly seen as an inferior type of painting. Known masters of the genre include the 10th century painter Guo Zhongshu, and Wang Zhenpeng, who was active around 1300.\n"}
{"id": "622883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622883", "title": "Aspendos", "text": "Aspendos\n\nAspendos or Aspendus (Pamphylian: ΕΣΤϜΕΔΥΣ; Attic: Ἄσπενδος) was an ancient Greco-Roman city in Antalya province of Turkey. The site is located northeast of central Serik.\n\nAspendos was an ancient city in Pamphylia, Asia Minor, located about 40 km east of the modern city of Antalya, Turkey. It was situated on the Eurymedon River about 16 km inland from the Mediterranean Sea; it shared a border with, and was hostile to, Side.\n\nSome scholars associate the city's name with \"Azatiwadaya\". The known city of that name was founded by Azatiwada of Quwê on his \"eastern\" frontier, at Karatepe. According to later tradition, Aspendos was founded rather earlier by Greeks who may have come from Argos.\n\nThe wide range of its coinage throughout the ancient world indicates that, in the 5th century BC, Aspendos had become the most important city in Pamphylia. At that time, according to Thucydides, the Eurymedon River was navigable as far as Aspendos, and the city derived great wealth from a trade in salt, oil and wool.\n\nAspendos did not play an important role in antiquity as a political force. Its political history during the colonisation period corresponded to the currents of the Pamphylian region. Within this trend, after the colonial period, it remained for a time under Lycian hegemony. In 546 BC it came under Persian domination. The fact that the city continued to mint coins in its own name, however, indicates that it had a great deal of freedom even under the Persians.\n\nCirca 465 BC Cimon led an Athenian navy against a Persian navy in the Battle of the Eurymedon, and destroyed it. Aspendos then became a member of the Delian League.\n\nThe Persians captured the city again in 411 BC and used it as a base. In 389 BC Thrasybulus of Athens, in an effort to regain some of the prestige that city had lost in the Peloponnesian Wars, anchored off the coast of Aspendos in an effort to secure its surrender. Hoping to avoid a new war, the people of Aspendos collected money among themselves and gave it to the commander, entreating him to retreat without causing any damage. Even though he took the money, he had his men trample all the crops in the fields. Enraged, the Aspendians stabbed and killed Thrasybulus in his tent.\n\nWhen Alexander the Great marched into Aspendos in 333 BC after capturing Perge, the citizens sent envoys asking him not to garrison soldiers there. He agreed, provided he would be given the taxes and horses that they had formerly paid as tribute to the Persian king. After reaching this agreement Alexander went to Side, leaving a garrison there on the city's surrender. Going back through Sillyon, he learned that the Aspendians had failed to ratify the agreement their envoys had proposed and were preparing to defend themselves. Alexander marched to the city immediately. When they saw Alexander returning with his troops, the Aspendians, who had retreated to their acropolis, again sent envoys to sue for peace. This time, however, they had to agree to very harsh terms; a Macedonian garrison would remain in the city and 100 gold talents as well as 4,000 horses would be given in tax annually.\n\nIn 190 BC the city surrendered to the Romans, and the corrupt magistrate Verres later pillaged its artistic treasures. It was ranked by Philostratus the third city of Pamphylia, and in Byzantine times seems to have been known as \"Primopolis\". Toward the end of the Roman period the city began a decline that continued throughout Byzantine times, although in medieval times it was evidently still a strong place.\n\nAspendos is known for having the best-preserved theatre of antiquity. With a diameter of 96 metres (315 ft), it provided seating for 12,000. It was built in 155 by the Greek architect Zenon, a native of the city. It was periodically repaired by the Seljuqs, who used it as a caravanserai, and in the 13th century the stage building was converted into a palace by the Seljuqs of Rum.\n\nIn order to keep with Hellenistic traditions, a small part of the theatre was built so that it leaned against the hill where the Citadel (Acropolis) stood, while the remainder was built on vaulted arches. The high stage, whose supporting columns are still in place, served to seemingly isolate the audience from the rest of the world. The 'scaenae frons' or backdrop, has remained intact. The 8.1 metre (27 ft) sloping reflective wooden ceiling over the stage has been lost over time. Post holes for 58 masts are found in the upper level of the theatre. These masts supported a velarium or awning that could be pulled over the audience to provide shade.\n\nThe Aspendos International Opera and Ballet Festival offers an annual season of productions in the theatre in the spring and early summer.\n\nNearby stand the remains of a basilica, agora, nymphaeum and 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) of a Roman aqueduct. The Roman Eurymedon Bridge, reconstructed in the 13th century, is also in the vicinity.\n\nAspendos was one of the earliest cities to mint coins. It began issuing coinage around 500 BC, first staters and later drachmas; \"the hoplite on the obverse represents the soldiery for which Aspendus was famous in antiquity,\" the reverse frequently depicts a triskelion. The legend appears on early coins as the abbreviation ΕΣ or ΕΣΤϜΕ; later coinage has ΕΣΤϜΕΔΙΙΥΣ, the adjective from the city's local (Pamphylian) name Estwedus. The city's numismatic history extends from archaic Greek to late Roman times.\n\nThe Christian bishopric of Aspendus was a suffragan of the metropolitan see of Side, the capital of the Roman province of Pamphylia Prima, to which Aspendus belonged. Of its bishops, the names of four are recorded in extant documents: Domnus was at the First Council of Nicaea in 425, Tribonianus at the Council of Ephesus in 431, Timotheus at the 448 synod held by Flavian of Constantinople, which condemned Eutyches, and at the Robber Council of Ephesus held the same year, and Leo at the Second Council of Nicaea in 787.\n\nNo longer a residential bishopric, Aspendus is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.\n\nThe theatre hosts the annual Aspendos International Opera and Ballet Festival organized by Turkish State Opera and Ballet since 1994, with international participation of opera and ballet companies and an audience of about 10,000.\n\nDalida held her last concert there on 28 April 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "241409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241409", "title": "Astroturfing", "text": "Astroturfing\n\nAstroturfing is the practice of masking the sponsors of a message or organization (e.g., political, advertising, religious or public relations) to make it appear as though it originates from and is supported by grassroots participants. It is a practice intended to give the statements or organizations credibility by withholding information about the source's financial connection. The term \"astroturfing\" is derived from AstroTurf, a brand of synthetic carpeting designed to resemble natural grass, as a play on the word \"grassroots.\" The implication behind the use of the term is that instead of a \"true\" or \"natural\" grassroots effort behind the activity in question, there is a \"fake\" or \"artificial\" appearance of support.\n\nIn political science, it is defined as the process of seeking electoral victory or legislative relief for grievances by helping political actors find and mobilize a sympathetic public, and is designed to create the image of public consensus where there is none. Astroturfing is the use of fake grassroots efforts that primarily focus on influencing public opinion and typically are funded by corporations and governmental entities to form opinions. On the Internet, astroturfers use software to mask their identity. Sometimes one individual operates through many personas to give the impression of widespread support for their client's agenda. Some studies suggest astroturfing can alter public viewpoints and create enough doubt to inhibit action. In the first systematic study of astroturfing in the United States, Oxford Professor Philip N. Howard argued that the internet was making it much easier for powerful lobbyists and political movements to activate small groups of aggrieved citizens to have an exaggerated importance in public policy debates.\n\nMany countries have laws that prohibit more overt astroturfing practices. In the United States the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) may send cease-and-desist orders or require a fine of $16,000 per day for those that violate its \"Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising.\" The FTC's guides were updated in 2009 to address social media and word-of-mouth marketing. According to an article in the \"Journal of Consumer Policy\", the FTC's guides holds advertisers responsible for ensuring bloggers or product endorsers comply with the guides, and any product endorsers with a material connection are required to provide honest reviews.\n\nIn the European Union, the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive requires that paid-for editorial content in the media provide a clear disclosure that the content is a sponsored advertisement. Additionally, it prohibits those with a material connection from misleading readers into thinking they are a regular consumer. The United Kingdom has the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations, which prohibits \"Falsely representing oneself as a consumer.\" They allow for up to two years in prison and unlimited fines for breaches. Additionally, the advertising industry in the UK has adopted many voluntary policies, such as the Code of Non-Broadcast Advertising, Sale, Promotion and Direct Marketing. A trade association, the Advertising Standards Authority, investigates complaints of breaches. The policy requires that marketing professionals not mislead their audience, including by omitting a disclosure of their material connection.\n\nIn Australia astroturfing is regulated by Section 18 of the Australian Consumer Law, which broadly prohibits \"misleading and deceptive conduct.\" According to the \"Journal of Consumer Policy\", Australia's laws, which were introduced in 1975, are more vague. In most cases, they are enforced through lawsuits from competitors, rather than the regulatory body, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. There is also an International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network (ICPEN).\n\nLegal regulations are primarily targeted towards testimonials, endorsements and statements as to the performance or quality of a product. Employees of an organization may be considered acting as customers if their actions are not guided by authority within the company.\n\nIn October 2018, after denying that they had paid for people to show up in support of a controversial power plant development project in New Orleans, Entergy was fined five million dollars for using astroturf firm The Hawthorn Group to provide actors to prevent real community members' voices from being counted at city council meetings and show false grassroots support.\n\nIn the book \"Grassroots for Hire: Public Affairs Consultants in American Democracy,\" Edward Walker defines \"astroturfing\" as public participation that is perceived as heavily incentivized, as fraudulent (claims are attributed to those who did not make such statements), or as an elite campaign masquerading as a mass movement. Although not all campaigns by professional grassroots lobbying consultants meet this definition, the book finds that the elite-sponsored grassroots campaigns often fail when they are not transparent about their sources of sponsorship and/or fail to develop partnerships with constituencies that have an independent interest in the issue. Walker highlights the case of Working Families for Wal-Mart, in which the campaign's lack of transparency led to its demise.\n\nA study published in the \"Journal of Business Ethics\" examined the effects of websites operated by front groups on students. It found that astroturfing was effective at creating uncertainty and lowering trust about claims, thereby changing perceptions that tend to favor the business interests behind the astroturfing effort. \"The New York Times\" reported that \"consumer\" reviews are more effective, because \"they purport to be testimonials of real people, even though some are bought and sold just like everything else on the commercial Internet.\" Some organizations feel that their business is threatened by negative comments, so they may engage in astroturfing to drown them out. Online comments from astroturfing employees can also sway the discussion through the influence of groupthink.\n\nSome astroturfing operatives defend their practice. Regarding \"movements that have organized aggressively to exaggerate their sway,\" author Ryan Sager said that this \"isn't cheating. Doing everything in your power to get your people to show up is basic politics.\" According to a Porter/Novelli executive, \"There will be times when the position you advocate, no matter how well framed and supported, will not be accepted by the public simply because you are who you are.\"\n\nData mining expert Bing Liu (University of Illinois) estimated that one-third of all consumer reviews on the Internet are fake. According to \"The New York Times\", this has made it hard to tell the difference between \"popular sentiment\" and \"manufactured public opinion.\" According to an article in the \"Journal of Business Ethics\", astroturfing threatens the legitimacy of genuine grassroots movements. The authors argued that astroturfing that is \"purposefully designed to fulfill corporate agendas, manipulate public opinion and harm scientific research represents a serious lapse in ethical conduct.\" A 2011 report found that often paid posters from competing companies are attacking each other in forums and overwhelming regular participants in the process. George Monbiot said that persona-management software supporting astroturfing \"could destroy the Internet as a forum for constructive debate.\" An article in the \"Journal of Consumer Policy\" said that regulators and policy makers needed to be more aggressive about astroturfing. The author said that it undermines the public's ability to inform potential customers of sub-standard products or inappropriate business practices, but also noted that fake reviews were difficult to detect.\n\nUse of one or more front groups is one astroturfing technique. These groups typically present themselves as serving the public interest, while actually working on behalf of a corporate or political sponsor. Front groups may resist legislation and scientific consensus that is damaging to the sponsor's business by emphasizing minority viewpoints, instilling doubt and publishing counterclaims by corporate-sponsored experts. Fake blogs can also be created that appear to be written by consumers, while actually being operated by a commercial or political interest. Some political movements have provided incentives for members of the public to send a letter to the editor at their local paper, often using a copy and paste form letter that is published in dozens of newspapers verbatim.\n\nAnother technique is the use of sockpuppets, where a single person creates multiple identities online to give the appearance of grassroots support. Sockpuppets may post positive reviews about a product, attack participants that criticize the organization, or post negative reviews and comments about competitors, under fake identities. Astroturfing businesses may pay staff based on the number of posts they make that are not flagged by moderators. Persona management software may be used so that each paid poster can manage five to seventy convincing online personas without getting them confused.\n\nPharmaceutical companies may sponsor patient support groups and simultaneously push them to help market their products. Bloggers who receive free products, paid travel or other accommodations may also be considered astroturfing if those gifts are not disclosed to the reader. Analysts could be considered astroturfing, since they often cover their own clients without disclosing their financial connection. To avoid astroturfing, many organizations and press have policies about gifts, accommodations and disclosures.\n\nPersona management software can age accounts and simulate the activity of attending a conference automatically to make it more convincing that they are genuine. At HBGary, employees are given separate thumb drives that contain online accounts for individual identities and visual cues to remind the employee which identity they are using at the time.\n\nMass letters may be printed on personalized stationery using different typefaces, colors and words to make them appear personal.\n\nAccording to an article in \"The New York Times\", the Federal Trade Commission rarely enforces its astroturfing laws. However, astroturfing operations are frequently detected if their profile images are recognized or if they are identified through the usage patterns of their accounts. Filippo Menczer's group at Indiana University developed software in 2010 that detects astroturfing on Twitter by recognizing behavioral patterns.\n\nAccording to an article in the \"Journal of Consumer Policy\", academics disagree on how prolific astroturfing is.\n\nAccording to Nancy Clark from Precision Communications, grass-roots specialists charge $25 to $75 for each constituent they convince to send a letter to a politician. Paid online commentators in China are paid 50 cents for each online post that is not removed by moderators, leading to the nickname of the \"50-cent party.\" \"The New York Times\" reported that a business selling fake online book reviews charged $999 for 50 reviews and made $28,000 a month shortly after opening.\n\nAccording to the \"Financial Times\", astroturfing is \"commonplace\" in American politics, but was \"revolutionary\" in Europe when it was exposed that the European Privacy Association, an anti-privacy \"think-tank,\" was actually sponsored by technology companies.\n\nAlthough the term \"astroturfing\" was not yet developed, an early example of the practice was in Act 1, Scene 2 of Shakespeare's play \"Julius Caesar\". In the play, Cassius writes fake letters from \"the public\" to convince Brutus to assassinate Caesar. In the early 1900s disposable cup vendor Dixie Cups convinced travelers to avoid public drinking cups found in trains and shops through a pamphlet called \"The Cup Campaigner\". The pamphlet warned that public drinking cups could spread disease and did not disclose that the message was commercially motivated. The term \"astroturfing\" was first coined in 1985 by Texas Democratic Party senator Lloyd Bentsen when he said, \"a fellow from Texas can tell the difference between grass roots and AstroTurf... this is generated mail.\" Bentsen was describing a \"mountain of cards and letters\" sent to his office to promote insurance industry interests.\n\nIn response to the passage of tobacco control legislation in the US, Philip Morris, Burson-Marsteller and other tobacco interests created the National Smokers Alliance (NSA) in 1993. The NSA and other tobacco interests initiated an aggressive public relations campaign from 1994 to 1999 in an effort to exaggerate the appearance of grassroots support for smoker's rights. According to an article in the \"Journal of Health Communication\", the NSA had mixed success at defeating bills that were damaging revenues of tobacco interests.\n\nEmail, automated phone calls, form letters, and the Internet made astroturfing more economical and prolific in the late 1990s. In 2001, as Microsoft was defending itself against an antitrust lawsuit, Americans for Technology Leadership (ATL), a group heavily funded by Microsoft, initiated a letter-writing campaign. ATL contacted constituents under the guise of conducting a poll and sent pro-Microsoft consumers form and sample letters to send to involved lawmakers. The effort was designed to make it appear as though there was public support for a sympathetic ruling in the antitrust lawsuit.\n\nIn January 2018, YouTube user Isaac Protiva uploaded a video alleging that internet service provider Fidelity Communications was behind an initiative called \"Stop City-Funded Internet,\" based on how some images on the Stop City-Funded Internet website had \"Fidelity\" in their file names. The campaign appeared to be in response to the city of West Plains expanding their broadband network, and advocated for the end of municipal broadband on the basis that it was too risky. Days later, Fidelity released a letter admitting to sponsoring the campaign.\n\nIn 2009–2010, an Indiana University research study developed a software system to detect astroturfing on Twitter due to the sensitivity of the topic in the run up to the 2010 U.S. midterm elections and account suspensions on the social media platform. The study cited a limited number of examples, all promoting conservative policies and candidates.\n\nIn 2003, GOPTeamLeader.com offered the site's users \"points\" that could be redeemed for products if they signed a form letter promoting George Bush and got a local paper to publish it as a letter to the editor. More than 100 newspapers published an identical letter to the editor from the site with different signatures on it. Similar campaigns were used by GeorgeWBush.com, and by MoveOn.org to promote Michael Moore's film Fahrenheit 9/11. The Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget's \"Fix the Debt\" campaign advocated to reduce government debt without disclosing that its members were lobbyists or high-ranking employees at corporations that aim to reduce federal spending. It also sent op-eds to various students that were published as-is.\n\nMany organizations in the Tea Party movement are astroturfed, with direct connections to right-wing think tanks and lobbying organizations, and their activities controlled by wealthy supporters or the GOP.\n\nThe Koch brothers are known to have started a public advocacy group to prevent the development of wind turbines offshore in Massachusetts. The Kennedy family was also involved. \n\nCorporate efforts to mobilize the public against environmental regulation accelerated in the US following the election of president Barack Obama.\n\nIn 2014, the Toronto Sun conservative media organization has published an article accusing Russia of using astroturf tactics to drum up anti-fracking sentiment across Europe and the West, supposedly in order to maintain dominance in oil exports through Ukraine.\n\nIn Canada, a coalition of oil and gas company executives grouped under the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP) also initiated a series of Canadian actions to advocate for the oil and gas industry in Canada through mainstream and social media, and using online campaigning to generate public support for fossil fuel energy projects. As an example of such astroturf movements, the \"Canada Action\" organization was registered in 2012 by a realtor from Calgary, Alberta, who has said publicly that he financed Canada Action with his own money but has refused to say if the organization has received industry or political funds.\n\nIn 2006, two Edelman employees created a blog called \"Wal-Marting Across America\" about two people traveling to Wal-Marts across the country. The blog gave the appearance of being operated by spontaneous consumers, but was actually operated on behalf of Working Families for Walmart, a group funded by Wal-Mart. In 2007, Ask.com deployed an anti-Google advertising campaign portraying Google as an \"information monopoly\" that was damaging the Internet. The ad was designed to give the appearance of a popular movement and did not disclose it was funded by a competitor.\n\nIn 2010, the Federal Trade Commission settled a complaint with Reverb Communications, who was using interns to post favorable product reviews in Apple's iTunes store for clients.\nIn September 2012, one of the first major identified case of astroturfing in Finland involved criticisms about the cost of a €1.8 billion patient information system, which was defended by fake online identities operated by involved vendors.\n\nIn September 2013, New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman announced a settlement with 19 companies to prevent astroturfing. \"'Astroturfing' is the 21st century's version of false advertising, and prosecutors have many tools at their disposal to put an end to it,\" said Scheiderman. The companies paid $350,000 to settle the matter, but the settlement opened the way for private suits as well. \"Every state has some version of the statutes New York used,\" according to lawyer Kelly H. Kolb. \"What the New York attorney general has done is, perhaps, to have given private lawyers a road map to file suit.\"\n\nAn Al Jazeera four part mini-series documented Israel's attempt to promote more friendly, pro-Israel rhetoric to influence the attitudes of British youth, namely through influencing already established political bodies, such as the National Union of Students and the Labour Party, or through the creation of other bodies not directly affiliated with the Israeli administration.\n\nIn 2008, an expert on Chinese affairs, Rebecca MacKinnon, estimated the country employed 280,000 in a government-sponsored astroturfing operation to post pro-China propaganda and drown out voices of dissent.\n\nIn June 2010, the United States Air Force solicited for \"persona management\" software that would \"enable an operator to exercise a number of different online persons from the same workstation and without fear of being discovered by sophisticated adversaries. Personas must be able to appear to originate in nearly any part of the world and can interact through conventional online services and social media platforms...\" The $2.6 million contract was awarded to Ntrepid Corporation for astroturfing software the military would use to spread pro-American propaganda in the Middle East, and disrupt extremist propaganda and recruitment.\n"}
{"id": "24378120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24378120", "title": "Cha: An Asian Literary Journal", "text": "Cha: An Asian Literary Journal\n\nCha: An Asian Literary Journal is the first Hong Kong-based online English literary journal. It was founded in 2007, a decade after the handover, by Tammy Ho Lai-Ming and Jeff Zroback. The editorial team also includes Reviews Editor Eddie Tay.\n\nThe journal publishes poetry, fiction, creative non-fiction, book reviews, and photography & art from and about Asia. Although \"Cha\" is primarily interested in Asia-related creative works and works by Asian writers and artists, it also publishes works by writers and artists from all over the world. In its first anniversary issue (November 2008), for example, former Poet Laureate of the United States Billy Collins contributed four Asian-themed poems. Other former contributors to the journal include, among others, Ai Weiwei, Louie Crew, Duo Duo, Eleanor Goodman, Ma. Luisa Aguilar Igloria, Alan Jefferies, Sushma Joshi, Christopher Kelen, Shirley Lim, Lyn Lifshin, Alvin Pang, Todd Swift, Amy Uyematsu, Eliot Weinberger, Alison Wong, Cyril Wong, Bryan Thao Worra, Xu Xi and Ouyang Yu.\n\n\"Cha\" was named Best New Online Magazine of 2008 and Best Online Magazine of 2011 by storySouth's Million Writers Award and was selected as The Gatekeeper's Site of the Week (Wednesday 1 July 2009), on Meet at the Gate, the website of Scottish publisher Canongate Books. Work published in \"Cha\" has been selected for publication in \"Best of the Web\" and \"Best of the Net\" anthologies (2009). A special feature of the journal is its critique column, \"A Cup of Fine Tea\", in which previously published works are discussed.\n\n\"Cha\" is currently catalogued in the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) Library and other places.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36299800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36299800", "title": "Chama (Maya site)", "text": "Chama (Maya site)\n\nChama (Chamá) is a small Late-Classic Maya highland site, situated in the Chixoy River valley of the Alta Verapaz department of Guatemala, some fifty kilometers north-west of San Pedro Carchah. Small-scale excavations were carried out in the early twentieth century by Robert J. Burkitt of the Pennsylvania University Museum. The site belongs to the periphery of the lowland Maya kingdoms. It has been argued that Chama was colonized from the lowlands somewhere at the beginning of the eighth century and then developed its characteristic, but short-lived Classical ceramic style.\n\nChamá-style cylindrical vases have black-and-white chevron motif bands painted around the rim and base, with a bright white, and strong red-and-black palette, applied to a distinctive yellow to yellow-orange background. Rather than with scenes of courtiers and warriors, they are often decorated with humanized animals, deities, and mythological scenes.\n"}
{"id": "12754035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12754035", "title": "Chicken Soup (TV series)", "text": "Chicken Soup (TV series)\n\nChicken Soup is an American sitcom starring Jackie Mason and Lynn Redgrave that aired on ABC from September 12 to November 7, 1989.\n\nThe series focuses on the interfaith relationship of a middle-aged Jewish man, Jackie (Mason), and an Irish Catholic woman, Maddie (Redgrave). Episodes centered around humorous situations and obstacles caused by the couple's different religions.\n\n\"Chicken Soup\" was scheduled after the number one primetime series \"Roseanne\", but was canceled because it could not hold a large enough percentage of the audience from its lead-in and because of controversy over inflammatory remarks by Mason during the New York City Mayoral elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39536478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39536478", "title": "Children Without Worms", "text": "Children Without Worms\n\nChildren Without Worms (CWW) is a global collaborative health programme among two pharmaceutical giants, Johnson & Johnson and GlaxoSmithKline, and a nonprofit organisation, the Task Force for Global Health. The cooperative goal is to support the treatment and prevention of parasitic infection with soil-transmitted helminths, which are the major cause of morbidity in school-age children, especially those living in Africa, Asia and South America.\n\nCWW is an effort to make the world's children free of soil-transmitted helminthiasis so that they can grow, play, learn normally and enrich their communities. To accomplish the mission, CWW works closely with the World Health Organization, regional government ministries and nongovernmental organizations. It partners with Helen Keller International to work in Cambodia, World Wildlife Fund in Cameroon, and Save the Children in Bangladesh.\n\nSoil-transmitted helminthiasis is a neglected tropical disease as a result of infection of intestinal parasites such as roundworm (\"Ascaris lumbricoides\"), whipworm (\"Trichuris trichiura\"), hookworms (\"Ancylostoma duodenale\" and \"Necator americanus\"), and pinworm/threadworm (\"Strongyloides stercoralis\"). Most prevalent in the impoverished tropical and subtropical regions of Subsaharan Africa, Latin America, Southeast Asia and China, where sanitation and hygiene are poor, the disease is an enormous burden on humanity, amounting to 135,000 deaths every year, and persistent infection of more than two billion people. The long-term impact is even worse. In these regions, the disease is the single most debilitating cause of intellectual and physical retardation. Thus it remains a relentless factor of backwardness in socio-economic and human development.\n\nCWW basically is an aim to control STH in children by:\n\nCWW targets children of school age through a slogan called the WASHED Framework, which includes systematic promotion of provision of water, sanitation, hygiene education, and deworming. Since helminth infections are not easily controlled by a simple treatment regime at a specific target level, CWW made a coordinated plan to improve:\n\nCWW oversees the donation of anthelmintics to the Ministries of Health and Education in eight recipient countries, including Bangladesh, Cambodia, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Lao PDR, Nicaragua, Uganda and Zambia. The annual donation consists of 200 million tablets of mebendazole from Johnson & Johnson, and 400 million tablets of albendazole from GlaxoSmithKline, and these are estimated for the treatment of up to 300 million children twice a year.\n\nCWW joined forces with the World Health Organization, the World Bank, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the world's 13 leading pharmaceutical companies, and governments of US, UK, United Arab Emirate, Bangladesh, Brazil, Mozambique and Tanzania, to implement the largest global health programme called the \"London Declaration on Neglected Tropical Diseases\" on 30 January 2012 in London. The ambitious project is to control or eradicate the major neglected tropical diseases. Under this programme, CWW will continue to disseminate drugs through for the projected eradication by 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "63633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63633", "title": "Church of the Nativity", "text": "Church of the Nativity\n\nThe Church of the Nativity, also Basilica of the Nativity (; ; ; ) is a basilica located in Bethlehem in the West Bank. The grotto it contains holds a prominent religious significance to Christians of various denominations as the birthplace of Jesus. The grotto is the oldest site continuously worshipped in Christianity, and the basilica is the oldest major church in the Holy Land.\n\nThe church was originally commissioned in 327 by Constantine the Great and his mother Helena on the site that was traditionally considered to be the birthplace of Jesus. That original basilica was completed sometime between 333-339. It was destroyed by fire during the Samaritan revolts of the 6th century, and a new basilica was built in 565 by Byzantine Emperor Justinian, who restored the architectural tone of the original.\n\nThe Church of the Nativity, while remaining basically unchanged since the Justinian reconstruction, has seen numerous repairs and additions, especially from the Crusader period, such as two bell towers (now gone), wall mosaics and paintings (partially preserved). Over the centuries, the surrounding compound has been expanded, and today it covers approximately 12,000 square meters, comprising three different monasteries: one Greek Orthodox, one Armenian Apostolic, and one Roman Catholic, of which the first two contain bell-towers built during the modern era.\n\nThe silver star marking the spot where Christ was born was stolen in 1847. Some assert that this was a contributing factor in the Crimean War against the Russian Empire; Others assert that the war grew out of the wider european situation.\n\nThe Church of the Nativity is a World Heritage site and was the first to be listed under Palestine by UNESCO. The site is also on UNESCO's List of World Heritage in Danger.\n\nThe \"status quo of Holy Land sites\" is a 250-year old understanding among religious communities that applies to the site.\n\nThe holy site known as the Nativity Grotto is thought to be the cave in which Jesus of Nazareth was born. In 135, Emperor Hadrian had the site above the Grotto converted into a worship place for Adonis, the Greek god of beauty and desire. Jerome noted in 420 that the grotto had been consecrated to the worship of Adonis, and that a sacred grove was planted there in order to completely wipe out the memory of Jesus from the world. Some modern scholars dispute this argument and insist that the cult of Adonis-Tammuz originated the shrine and that it was the Christians who took it over, substituting the worship of Jesus. The antiquity of the association of the site with the birth of Jesus, however, is attested by Justin Martyr (c. 100–165) who noted in his \"Dialogue with Trypho\" that the Holy Family had taken refuge in a cave outside of town:\nBut when the Child was born in Bethlehem, since Joseph could not find a lodging in that village, he took up his quarters in a certain cave near the village; and while they were there Mary brought forth the Christ and placed Him in a manger, and here the Magi who came from Arabia found Him.\n\nAdditionally, early Christian theologian and Greek philosopher Origen of Alexandria (185–c. 254) wrote:\nIn Bethlehem the cave is pointed out where He was born, and the manger in the cave where He was wrapped in swaddling clothes. And the rumor is in those places, and among foreigners of the Faith, that indeed Jesus was born in this cave who is worshipped and reverenced by the Christians.\n\nThe first basilica on this site was begun by Helena of Constantinople, the mother of Emperor Constantine I. The construction started in 327 under the supervision of Bishop Makarios of Jerusalem and was completed a few years later - it was already visited in 333 by the Bordeaux Pilgrim and was officially dedicated on 31 May 339.\n\nConstruction of this early church was carried out as part of a larger project following the First Council of Nicaea during Constantine's reign, aimed to build churches on the supposed sites of the life of Jesus. The design of the basilica centered around three major architectural sections:\n\n\nThe structure was burned and destroyed in one of the Samaritan Revolts of 529 or 556, in the second of which Jews seem to have joined the Samaritans.\n\nThe basilica was rebuilt in its present form in 565 by Byzantine Emperor Justinian I.\n\nThe Persians under Khosrau II invaded Palestine and conquered nearby Jerusalem in 614, but they did not destroy the structure. According to legend, their commander Shahrbaraz was moved by the depiction above the church entrance of the Three Magi wearing the garb of Persian Zoroastrian priests, so he ordered that the building be spared.\nThe Church of the Nativity was used as the primary coronation church for Crusader kings, from the second ruler of the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem in 1100 and until 1131. The Crusaders undertook extensive decoration and restoration on the basilica and grounds, a process that continued until 1169, from 1165-69 even through a rare cooperation between the Catholic king Amalric I of Jerusalem and the Byzantine emperor Manuel I Komnenos, who was his father-in-law.\n\nThe Khwarezmian Turks desecrated the Church of the Nativity in April 1244, leaving the roof in poor condition. The Duchy of Burgundy committed resources to restore the roof in August 1448, and multiple regions contributed supplies to have the Church roof repaired in 1480: England supplied the lead, the Second Kingdom of Burgundy supplied the wood, and the Republic of Venice provided the labor.\n\nEarthquakes inflicted significant damage to the Church of the Nativity between 1834 and 1837. The 1834 Jerusalem earthquake damaged the church's bell tower, the furnishings of the cave on which the church is built, and other parts of its structure. Minor damages were further inflicted by a series of strong aftershocks in 1836 and the Galilee earthquake of 1837.\n\nBy 1846, the Church of the Nativity and its surrounding site lay in disrepair and vulnerable to looting. Much of the interior marble flooring was looted in the early half of the 19th century, much of which was transferred to use in other buildings around the region, including the Haram ash-Sharif (Temple Mount) in Jerusalem. The religiously significant silver star marking the exact birthplace of Jesus was stolen in 1846 from the Grotto of the Nativity. The church was under the control of the Ottoman Empire, but around Christmas 1852, Napoleon III forced the Ottomans to recognise France as the \"sovereign authority\" over Christian holy sites in the Holy Land. The Sultan of Turkey replaced the silver star at the Grotto, complete with a Latin inscription, but the Russian Empire disputed the change in authority. They cited the Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca and then deployed armies to the Danube area. As a result, the Ottomans issued firmans essentially reversing their earlier decision, renouncing the French treaty, and restoring the Greeks to the sovereign authority over the churches of the Holy Land for the time being, thus increasing local tensions—and all this fuelled the conflict between the Russian and the Ottoman empires over the control of holy sites around the region.\n\nThe passageway which connects St. Jerome's Cave and the Cave of the Nativity was expanded in February 1964, allowing easier access for visitors. American businessman Stanley Slotkin was visiting at the time and purchased a quantity of the limestone rubble, more than a million irregular fragments about across. He sold them to the public encased in plastic crosses, and they were advertised in infomercials in 1995.\nApproximately 50 armed Palestinians wanted by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) locked themselves in the church in April 2002 during the Second Intifada, holding hostage 200 monks and other Palestinians—some of whom served as human shields for the terrorists. The IDF did not break into the building, but they prevented the entry of food and cut telephone lines. The siege lasted 39 days, and some of the terrorists were shot by IDF snipers. \n\nCurtains caught fire in the grotto beneath the church on 27 May 2014, which resulted in some slight damage.\n\nThe Church undertook a major renovation starting in September 2013, about to be completed as of April 2018. Italian restoration workers uncovered a seventh mosaic angel in July 2016, which was previously hidden under plaster.\n\nThe property rights, liturgical use and maintenance of the church are regulated by a set of documents and understandings known as the Status Quo. The church is owned by three church authorities, the Greek Orthodox (most of the building and furnishings), the Armenian Apostolic and the Roman Catholic (each of them with lesser properties). The Coptic Orthodox and Syriac Orthodox are holding minor rights of worship at the Armenian church in the northern transept, and at the Altar of Nativity.\nThere have been repeated brawls among monk trainees over quiet respect for others' prayers, hymns and even the division of floor space for cleaning duties. The Palestinian police have been called to restore peace and order.\n\nThe centrepiece of the Nativity complex is the Grotto of the Nativity, a cave which enshrines the site where Jesus is said to have been born.\n\nThe core of the complex connected to the Grotto consists of the Church of the Nativity itself, and the adjoining Roman Catholic Church of St. Catherine north of it.\n\nBethlehem's main city square, Manger Square, is an extension of the large paved courtyard in front of the Church of the Nativity and St Catherine's. Here crowds gather on Christmas Eve to sing Christmas carols in anticipation of the midnight services.\n\nThe main Basilica of the Nativity is maintained by the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem. It is designed like a typical Roman basilica, with five aisles formed by Corinthian columns, and an apse in the eastern end containing the sanctuary.\n\nThe basilica is entered through a very low door called the \"Door of Humility.\"\n\nThe church's interior walls features medieval golden mosaics once covering the side walls, which are now in large parts lost.\n\nThe original Roman-style floor of the basilica has been covered over with flagstones, but there is a trap door in the floor which opens up to reveal a portion of the original mosaic pavement from the Constantinian basilica.\n\nThere are 44 columns separating the aisles from each other and from the nave, some of which are painted with images of saints, such as the Irish monk St. Cathal (fl. 7th century), the patron of the Sicilian Normans, St. Canute (c. 1042-1086), king of Denmark, and St. Olaf (995-1030), king of Norway.\n\nThe east end of the church consists of a raised chancel, closed by an apse containing the main altar and separated from the chancel by a large gilded iconostasis.\n\nA complex array of sanctuary lamps is placed throughout the entire building.\n\nThe open ceiling exposes the wooden rafters, recently restored. The previous 15th-century restoration used beams donated by King Edward IV of England, who also donated lead to cover the roof; however, this lead was taken by the Ottoman Turks, who melted it down for ammunition to use in war against Venice.\n\nStairways on either side of the chancel lead down to the Grotto.\n\nThe Grotto of the Nativity, the place where Jesus is said to have been born, is an underground space which forms the crypt of the Church of the Nativity. It is situated underneath its main altar, and it is normally accessed by two staircases on either side of the chancel. The Grotto is part of a network of caves, which are accessed from the adjacent Church St Catherine's. The tunnel-like corridor connecting the Grotto to the other caves is normally locked.\n\nThe cave has an eastern niche said to be the place where Jesus was born, which contains the Altar of Nativity. The exact spot where Jesus was born is marked beneath this altar by a 14-pointed silver star with the Latin inscription \"Hic De Virgine Maria Jesus Christus Natus Est-1717\" (Here Jesus Christ was born to the Virgin Mary-1717). It was installed by the Catholics in 1717, removed - allegedly by the Greeks - in 1847, and replaced by the Turkish government in 1853. The star is set into the marble floor and surrounded by 15 silver lamps representing the three Christian communities: six belong to the Greek Orthodox, four to the Catholics, and five to the Armenian Apostolic. The Altar of the Nativity is maintained by the Greek Orthodox and Armenian Apostolic churches.\n\nRoman Catholics are in charge of a section of the Grotto known as the \"Grotto of the Manger\", marking the traditional site where Mary laid the newborn Baby in the manger. The Altar of the Magi is located directly opposite from the manger site.\n\nThe adjoining Church of St. Catherine is a Roman Catholic church dedicated to St. Catherine of Alexandria, built in a more modern Gothic Revival style. It has been further modernized according to the liturgical trends which followed Vatican II.\n\nThis is the church where the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem celebrates Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve. Certain customs in this Midnight Mass predate Vatican II, but must be maintained because the \"status quo\" was legally fixed by a firman (decree) in 1852 under the Ottoman Empire, which is still in force today.\n\nThe bas-relief of the Tree of Jesse is a sculpture by Czesław Dźwigaj which was recently incorporated into the Church of St. Catherine as a gift of Pope Benedict XVI during his trip to the Holy Land in 2009. It represents an olive tree as the Tree of Jesse, displaying the genealogy of Jesus from Abraham through Joseph, as well as symbolism from the Old Testament. The upper portion is dominated by a crowned figure of Christ the King in an open-armed pose blessing the Earth. It is situated along the passage used by pilgrims making their way to the Grotto of the Nativity.\n\nSeveral chapels are found in the caves accessed from St. Catherine's, including the Chapel of Saint Joseph commemorating the angel's appearance to Joseph, commanding him to flee to Egypt (); the Chapel of the Innocents, commemorating the children killed by Herod (); and the Chapel of Saint Jerome, in the underground cell where tradition holds he lived while translating the Bible into Latin (the Vulgate).\n\nAccording to a tradition not sustained by history, the tombs of four Catholic saints are said to be located beneath the Church of the Nativity, in the caves accessible from the Church of St. Catherine:\n\nA number of ancient through-shaped tombs can be seen in the Catholic-owned caves adjacent to the Nativity Grotto and St Jerome's Cave, some of them inside the Chapel of the Innocents; more tombs can be seen on the southern, Greek-Orthodox side of the Basilica of the Nativity, also presented as being those of the infants murdered by Herod.\n\nIn 2012, the church complex became the first Palestinian site to be listed as a World Heritage site by the World Heritage Committee at its 36th session on 29 June. It was approved by a secret vote of 13–6 in the 21-member committee, according to UNESCO spokeswoman Sue Williams, and following an emergency candidacy procedure that by-passed the 18-month process for most sites, despite the opposition of the United States and Israel. The site was approved under criteria four and six. The decision was a controversial one on both technical and political terms. It has also been placed on the List of World Heritage in Danger as it is suffering from damages due to water leaks.\n\nThe basilica was placed on the 2008 Watch List of the 100 Most Endangered Sites by the World Monuments Fund:\nThe present state of the church is worrying. Many roof timbers are rotting, and have not been replaced since the 19th century. The rainwater that seeps into the building not only accelerates the rotting of the wood and damages the structural integrity of the building, but also damages the 12th-century wall mosaics and paintings. The influx of water also means that there is an ever-present chance of an electrical fire. If another earthquake were to occur on the scale of the one of 1834, the result would most likely be catastrophic. ... It is hoped that the listing will encourage its preservation, including getting the three custodians of the church—the Greek Orthodox Church, the Armenian Orthodox Church, and the Franciscan order—to work together, which has not happened for hundreds of years. The Israeli government and the Palestinian Authority would also have to work together to protect it.\n\nIn 2010, the Palestinian Authority announced that a multimillion-dollar restoration programme was imminent.\n\nThe initial phase of the restoration work was completed in early 2016. The project is partially funded by Palestinians and conducted by a team of Palestinian and international experts. New windows have been installed, structural repairs on the roof have been completed and art works and mosaics have been cleaned and restored. Although overwhelmingly Muslim, Palestinians consider the church a national treasure and one of their most visited tourist sites. President Mahmoud Abbas has been actively involved in the project, which is led by Ziad al-Bandak.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49145035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49145035", "title": "Chutixtiox", "text": "Chutixtiox\n\nChutixtiox (alternatively spelled Xutixtiox, or Chu'Taxtyoox in the Sakapultek language) is an archaeological site of the ancient Maya civilization near Sacapulas, in the Quiché department of modern Guatemala. The site was excavated during the 20th century by A. Ledyard Smith. Ceramic evidence excavated at the site suggests a close relationship with the K'iche' capital of Q'umarkaj. Chutixtiox may have been a settlement in a polity that included the nearby sites of Chutinamit and Xolpacol.\n\nThe site has been dated to the Late Postclassic period and shows two distinct architectural phases, with the late phase demonstrating close similarity to the central K'iche' region around Q'umarkaj. This matches ethnohistoric documents that describe an early 15th-century conquest of the region by the central K'iche'. The site has been identified as the settlement of the Kumatz group, described as migrating to the area in the \"Popul Vuh\".\n\nThe site is located on a high ridge in an area later dominated by the K'iche' Maya. The ridge overlooks an agricultural valley of the Río Negro. The site was heavily fortified and may have been a settlement of the Postclassic K'iche', used to control the valley. Chutixtiox is west of the contemporary site of Tuja. The site is surrounded on three sides by sheer cliffs dropping over down to the river. On the fourth side it connects to a long ridge via a narrow neck of land just wide. Although the site dominates the fertile floodplains below, the site itself is arid; the vegetation consists of thorny acacias and cacti.\n\nCeramic evidence dates the site to the Late Postclassic (c. 1200–1524 AD). A significant amount of Early Phase ceramics were recovered (c. 1200–1350), but the majority of ceramics dated to the Late Phase (c. 1350–1524) and these demonstrated strong similarities with contemporary ceramics from Q'umarkaj, suggesting close links between the two sites during this phase. Site architecture is also closely related to architecture at the K'iche' capital, with west-facing temples, similar layout of flanking structures, a defensive ditch at the entrance, and the plaza floor coated with plaster. There are also important differences to the typical K'iche' settlement pattern as represented at the capital; the ballcourt is not oriented east-west, the architecture is mounted upon an acropolis with a steep defensive wall, and the main temple was radial. Investigator John Fox suggested that the differences may represent the Early Phase settlement pattern, before the site came under the influence of the central K'iche' region, and the similarities being the result of the later close relation with Q'umarkaj.\n\nThe K'iche' epic \"Popul Vuh\" describes four groups that settled around Sacapulas; these were the Lamakib, the Kumatz, the Tuhal Haa, and the Uch'aba Haa. Kumatz is now associated with the north side of the river, and Chutixtiox may have been Kumatz. The early colonial indigenous \"Annals of the Kaqchikels\" and the \"Título Xpantzay II\" both relate that Kumatz was conquered by the central K'iche' in the early 15th century AD. These ethnohistoric documents closely match the strong central K'iche' influence evidenced in the archaeology of the site.\n\nThe earliest archaeological exploration of Chutixtiox was undertaken by A. Ledyard Smith in 1955. The site covers approximately and contains about 30 structures, with approximately half of these grouped around the main plaza.\n\nChutixtiox occupies a highly defensible location, with a defensive wall and additional protection provided by surrounding cliffs. In two places where the drop to the river is not sheer, the natural slope has been fortified. A gentler slope westwards to the river, on the north side of the site, was reinforced with a high wall running down from the hilltop to the river bank. On the northeast side the slope down to the river is naturally steep, but the top was cut away to present a vertical drop. Chutixtiox had a single entrance on the northwest side, close to the upper end of the defensive wall. A defensive ditch was cut across the neck of land connecting the site to the adjacent ridge to defend the approach.\n\nThe site core consists of an acropolis supporting a plaza, around which all the civic architecture is arranged, with the exception of two structures. The acropolis terrace rises above the adjoining level, and has inset masonry retaining walls. Five stairways were used to access the acropolis level. The masonry is well-preserved and built from cut schistose slabs. In some places a later building stage uses dressed limestone blocks. The masonry was coated with plaster. The majority of structures at the site are aligned with the cardinal directions. The long structures at the site featured corbel vaulting, an architectural form derived from the Maya lowlands.\n\nThe main plaza of the site features a radial pyramid with a single stairway on each side; it stands tall. The pyramid is flanked by roughly symmetrical architectural complexes on the north and south sides of the plaza, consisting of a long council-house structure and a smaller shrine standing between the east end of each long structure and the radial temple. The flanking shrines stand approximately high, and each possessed a single west-facing stairway. The long structures flanking the plaza each possessed a single room upon a basal platform, with benches set against the back and side walls. One of the long structures measures , standing upon a basal platform measuring .\n\nStructure 10 possessed a stone-lined tomb, rectangular in form, with its doorway sealed by a stone slab. Structure 12 was a small shrine with doorways in all four sides. During excavations, a well-preserved sculpture of a crouching jaguar was uncovered at the base of the stairway of Structure 3, one of the long structures, and a life-size stucco sculpture of a jaguar was found buried with the deceased in a tomb under another of northern long structure flanking the main plaza.\n\nThe ballcourt measures along its major axis and is aligned 15–17° off north-south. It is situated along the side of the plaza, upon a lower terrace, and may have been regarded as a part of the plaza complex. The walls of the playing area are almost vertical, and the top of the eastern range of the ballcourt is on the same level as the adjoining floor of the main plaza.\n\nOn the same level as the ballcourt there is a secondary plaza that contains an unusual long structure with a sunken court. The superstructure possessed free-standing masonry walls, with a single room that contained benches. Holes near the top of the walls probably held wooden beams that supported a wooden roof. The long structure contained a raised plaster ring standing high, and measuring across. An altar accompanies the long structure in the secondary plaza.\n\nNumerous low residential platforms are located on the western terraces of the site. An underground passage is said to lead down from the ruins to the river, but archaeologists were unable to verify its existence.\n"}
{"id": "26807496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26807496", "title": "Dawn Atkins (anthropologist)", "text": "Dawn Atkins (anthropologist)\n\nDawn Atkins (born February 13, 1962) is an American writer of nonfiction and fiction, as well as an activist and educator.\n\nShe has had an influence in a number of diverse areas including journalism, anthropology, body image, science fiction and fantasy, feminism, gender and sexuality studies, and Neopaganism.\n\nAtkins has written dozens of published non-fiction works in journalism and anthropology and is the editor/author of three non-fiction books in sexuality studies – \"Looking Queer\", \"Lesbian Sex Scandals\", and \"Bisexual Women in the Twentieth Century\".\n\nAtkins' first published poem was at age nine, first award for writing at age eleven, first paid publication at age twelve and first fiction published at age fifteen. As a teenager, Atkins was a student journalist who won awards as a writer and editor of both the school newspaper and literary journal.\n\nBefore even finishing high school, Atkins also began \"Shadows Of...\", a science fiction and fantasy magazine which ran from 1979–1982, and helped launch the careers of a number of authors and artists. In addition to demands of both these publications and school, Atkins worked part-time at the local professional newspaper,\"The Moore Monitor\" (1980–1981). Work in all these areas earned Atkins a journalism scholarship to the University of Oklahoma. After starting OU, she also worked for \"The Norman Transcript\" (1981–1982).\n\nIn 1984, Atkins left school to accept a full-time position as Managing Editor at \"Locus Magazine\" (The Magazine Of The Science Fiction & Fantasy Field). While there, Atkins redesigned the magazine and earned a Hugo Award (1985). Atkins left \"Locus\" and returned to college in 1986, completing Bachelor of Arts (double major) in Professional Writing and Anthropology from the University of California, Santa Cruz (1989), while also working part-time as both a writing instructor at UCSC and a journalist with several local publications, including popular weekly newspaper, \"The Sun\".\n\nAtkins is the daughter of feminist activist, Mary E. Atkins, and with her mother had been a member of several activist organizations in both Oklahoma and California, including the National Organization for Women. Atkins and her mother were part of a movement to raise awareness of body image issues such as appearance discrimination and eating disorders. In 1988, their work led to NOW officially recognizing the need to address body image issues.\n\nAtkins activism on anti-discrimination led to several years as founder and chair (1989–1994) of a body image education organization, the Body Image Task Force. Atkins was responsible for all the BITF publications and workshops, speaking to the media and other operations. She was featured on such television programs as Larry King Live and The Oprah Winfrey Show. She gave lectures and workshops on body image at high schools, colleges, community organizations and other venues. Atkins was also one of the co-authors and primary organizers behind the Santa Cruz City Anti-Discrimination Ordinance (1992), which added \"sexual orientation, gender, height, weight and physical appearance\" to the protected categories and became a model for other anti-discrimination law in other cities.\n\nIn 1994, Atkins was accepted to the doctoral program in Anthropology at the University of Iowa. Atkins completed a Masters in Anthropology in 1996. While studying at UI, Atkins also presented papers at conferences, taught classes, was assistant to the Director of Women's Studies, the editor of three books and contributing editor to several academic publications. Atkins was guest editor of special editions of the \"Journal of Lesbian Studies\", \"Journal of Bisexuality\" and \"International Journal of Sexuality and Gender Studies\".\n\nAtkins was working on a dissertation for the doctoral program when traumatic injury prevented completing the program. While recovering from the injury, Atkins spent several years as owner of an on-line used and rare book store before returning to writing. Atkins' injury developed into a chronic pain disorder (fibromyalgia) which prohibited a return to anthropology or journalism. Fiction, a first love, became the new direction for Atkins' energy. Atkins now writes and edits fiction and has published several novels under pen names, including D.M. Atkins.\n\nAtkins has also been active in Wicca and Neopaganism. She was a leader of Pagan organizations in both Santa Cruz and Iowa City, teaching introductory classes, leading public rituals and events. She was one of the founders and leaders of the Iowa Pagan Access Network (1995–1998).\n\n"}
{"id": "53576132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53576132", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Maldives", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Maldives\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Maldives () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Maldives. The Palestinian ambassador in Malaysia consider same Palestinian ambassador in Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "40352406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40352406", "title": "Fukinuki yatai", "text": "Fukinuki yatai\n\nFukinuki yatai (吹抜屋台) describes a feature of Japanese Art particularly associated with \"e-maki\"(絵巻) painted scrolls, famously for example, yamato-e.\n\nLiterally meaning 'blown off roof', \"fukinuki yatai\" relates to the depiction of both interior and exterior environments - including rooms, screens and architecture where the roof and walls are removed and the beams are preserved. The basic visual feature depicts the interior scene from an upper diagonal with the roof, ceiling and sometimes inner partitions removed. From an artistic perspective, it also importantly describes the composition by which character relations, or even feelings, are depicted in the layout.\n\nThis technique was used in early Japanese (Heian Period 平安時代) scrolls with very few exceptions until realism in Kamakura (鎌倉) art has flourished. The rudimentary function of fukinuki yatai is to portrait multiple narrative stories on the same painting using different spaces. The earliest usage of Fukinuki yatai was found in the biography of Prince Shōtoku (聖徳太子絵伝). Other typical examples are found in The Tale of Genji (源氏物語絵巻), Murasaki Shikibu Diary Emaki (紫式部日記絵巻), and Kasuga Gongen Genki E (春日権現験記絵巻) .\n"}
{"id": "2627738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2627738", "title": "History of optics", "text": "History of optics\n\nOptics began with the development of lenses by the ancient Egyptians and Mesopotamians, followed by theories on light and vision developed by ancient Greek philosophers, and the development of geometrical optics in the Greco-Roman world. The word \"optics\" is derived from the Greek term \"τα ὀπτικά\" meaning \"appearance, look\". Optics was significantly reformed by the developments in the medieval Islamic world, such as the beginnings of physical and physiological optics, and then significantly advanced in early modern Europe, where diffractive optics began. These earlier studies on optics are now known as \"classical optics\". The term \"modern optics\" refers to areas of optical research that largely developed in the 20th century, such as wave optics and quantum optics.\n\nThe earliest known lenses were made from polished crystal, often quartz, and have been dated as early as 750 BC for Assyrian lenses such as the Nimrud / Layard lens. There are many similar lenses from ancient Egypt, Greece and Babylon. The ancient Romans and Greeks filled glass spheres with water to make lenses. However, glass lenses were not thought of until the Middle Ages.\n\nSome lenses fixed in ancient Egyptian statues are much older than those mentioned above. There is some doubt as to whether or not they qualify as lenses, but they are undoubtedly glass and served at least ornamental purposes. The statues appear to be anatomically correct schematic eyes.\n\nIn ancient India, the philosophical schools of Samkhya and Vaisheshika, from around the 6th–5th century BC, developed theories on light. According to the Samkhya school, light is one of the five fundamental \"subtle\" elements (\"tanmatra\") out of which emerge the gross elements.\n\nIn contrast, the Vaisheshika school gives an atomic theory of the physical world on the non-atomic ground of ether, space and time. (See \"Indian atomism\".) The basic atoms are those of earth (\"prthivı\"), water (\"apas\"), fire (\"tejas\"), and air (\"vayu\"), that should not be confused with the ordinary meaning of these terms. These atoms are taken to form binary molecules that combine further to form larger molecules. Motion is defined in terms of the movement of the physical atoms. Light rays are taken to be a stream of high velocity of \"tejas\" (fire) atoms. The particles of light can exhibit different characteristics depending on the speed and the arrangements of the \"tejas\" atoms. Around the first century BC, the \"Vishnu Purana\" refers to sunlight as \"the seven rays of the sun\".\n\nIn the fifth century BC, Empedocles postulated that everything was composed of four elements; fire, air, earth and water. He believed that Aphrodite made the human eye out of the four elements and that she lit the fire in the eye which shone out from the eye making sight possible. If this were true, then one could see during the night just as well as during the day, so Empedocles postulated an interaction between rays from the eyes and rays from a source such as the sun. He stated that light has a finite speed. \n\nIn his \"Optics\" Greek mathematician Euclid observed that \"things seen under a greater angle appear greater, and those under a lesser angle less, while those under equal angles appear equal\". In the 36 propositions that follow, Euclid relates the apparent size of an object to its distance from the eye and investigates the apparent shapes of cylinders and cones when viewed from different angles. Pappus believed these results to be important in astronomy and included Euclid's \"Optics\", along with his \"Phaenomena\", in the \"Little Astronomy\", a compendium of smaller works to be studied before the \"Syntaxis\" (\"Almagest\") of Ptolemy.\n\nIn 55 BC, Lucretius, a Roman who carried on the ideas of earlier Greek atomists, wrote:\n\nDespite being similar to later particle theories of light, Lucretius's views were not generally accepted and light was still theorized as emanating from the eye.\n\nIn his \"Catoptrica\", Hero of Alexandria showed by a geometrical method that the actual path taken by a ray of light reflected from a plane mirror is shorter than any other reflected path that might be drawn between the source and point of observation.\n\nIn the second century Claudius Ptolemy, in his \"Optics\" undertook studies of reflection and refraction. He measured the angles of refraction between air, water, and glass, and his published results indicate that he adjusted his measurements to fit his (incorrect) assumption that the angle of refraction is proportional to the angle of incidence.\n\nThe Indian Buddhists, such as Dignāga in the 5th century and Dharmakirti in the 7th century, developed a type of atomism that is a philosophy about reality being composed of atomic entities that are momentary flashes of light or energy. They viewed light as being an atomic entity equivalent to energy, similar to the modern concept of photons, though they also viewed all matter as being composed of these light/energy particles.\n\nThe early writers discussed here treated vision more as a geometrical than as a physical, physiological, or psychological problem. The first known author of a treatise on geometrical optics was the geometer Euclid (c. 325 BC–265 BC). Euclid began his study of optics as he began his study of geometry, with a set of self-evident axioms.\n\n\nEuclid did not define the physical nature of these visual rays but, using the principles of geometry, he discussed the effects of perspective and the rounding of things seen at a distance.\n\nWhere Euclid had limited his analysis to simple direct vision, Hero of Alexandria (c. AD 10–70) extended the principles of geometrical optics to consider problems of reflection (catoptrics). Unlike Euclid, Hero occasionally commented on the physical nature of visual rays, indicating that they proceeded at great speed from the eye to the object seen and were reflected from smooth surfaces but could become trapped in the porosities of unpolished surfaces. This has come to be known as \"emission theory\".\n\nHero demonstrated the equality of the angle of incidence and reflection on the grounds that this is the shortest path from the object to the observer. On this basis, he was able to define the fixed relation between an object and its image in a plane mirror. Specifically, the image appears to be as far behind the mirror as the object really is in front of the mirror.\n\nLike Hero, Ptolemy in his \"Optics\" (preserved only in the form of a Latin translation of a gravely defective Arabic version) considered the visual rays as proceeding from the eye to the object seen, but, unlike Hero, considered that the visual rays were not discrete lines, but formed a continuous cone. Ptolemy extended the study of vision beyond direct and reflected vision; he also studied vision by refracted rays (dioptrics), when we see objects through the interface between two media of different density. He conducted experiments to measure the path of vision when we look from air to water, from air to glass, and from water to glass and tabulated the relationship between the incident and refracted rays.\n\nHis tabulated results have been studied for the air water interface, and in general the values he obtained reflect the theoretical refraction given by modern theory, but the outliers are distorted to represent Ptolemy's \"a priori\" model of the nature of refraction.\n\nAl-Kindi (c. 801–873) was one of the earliest important optical writers in the Islamic world. In a work known in the west as \"De radiis stellarum\", al-Kindi developed a theory \"that everything in the world ... emits rays in every direction, which fill the whole world.\" This theory of the active power of rays had an influence on later scholars such as Ibn al-Haytham, Robert Grosseteste and Roger Bacon.\n\nIbn Sahl, a mathematician active in Baghdad during the 980s, is the first Islamic scholar known to have compiled a commentary on Ptolemy's \"Optics\". His treatise \"Fī al-'āla al-muḥriqa\" \"On the burning instruments\" was recontructed from fragmentary manuscripts by Rashed (1993). The work is concerned with how curved mirrors and lenses bend and focus light. Ibn Sahl also describes a law of refraction mathematically equivalent to Snell's law. He used his law of refraction to compute the shapes of lenses and mirrors that focus light at a single point on the axis.\n\nIbn al-Haytham (known in as \"Alhacen\" or \"Alhazen\" in Western Europe), writing in the 1010s, received both Ibn Sahl's treatise and a partial Arabic translation of Ptolemy's \"Optics\". He produced a comprehensive and systematic analysis of Greek optical theories. Ibn al-Haytham's key achievement was twofold: first, to insist, against the opinion of Ptolemy, that vision occurred because of rays entering the eye; the second was to define the physical nature of the rays discussed by earlier geometrical optical writers, considering them as the forms of light and color. \nHe then analyzed these physical rays according to the principles of geometrical optics. He wrote many books on optics, most significantly the \"Book of Optics\" (\"Kitab al Manazir\" in Arabic), translated into Latin as the \"De aspectibus\" or \"Perspectiva\", which disseminated his ideas to Western Europe and had great influence on the later developments of optics.\n\nAvicenna (980-1037) agreed with Alhazen that the speed of light is finite, as he \"observed that if the perception of light is due to the emission of some sort of particles by a luminous source, the speed of light must be finite.\" Abū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī (973-1048) also agreed that light has a finite speed, and stated that the speed of light is much faster than the speed of sound.\n\nAbu 'Abd Allah Muhammad ibn Ma'udh, who lived in Al-Andalus during the second half of the 11th century, wrote a work on optics later translated into Latin as \"Liber de crepisculis\", which was mistakenly attributed to Alhazen. This was a \"short work containing an estimation of the angle of depression of the sun at the beginning of the morning twilight and at the end of the evening twilight, and an attempt to calculate on the basis of this and other data the height of the atmospheric moisture responsible for the refraction of the sun's rays.\" Through his experiments, he obtained the value of 18°, which comes close to the modern value.\n\nIn the late 13th and early 14th centuries, Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi (1236–1311) and his student Kamāl al-Dīn al-Fārisī (1260–1320) continued the work of Ibn al-Haytham, and they were among the first to give the correct explanations for the rainbow phenomenon. Al-Fārisī published his findings in his \"Kitab Tanqih al-Manazir\" (\"The Revision of\" [Ibn al-Haytham's] \"Optics\").\n\nThe English bishop, Robert Grosseteste (c. 1175–1253), wrote on a wide range of scientific topics at the time of the origin of the medieval university and the recovery of the works of Aristotle. Grosseteste reflected a period of transition between the Platonism of early medieval learning and the new Aristotelianism, hence he tended to apply mathematics and the Platonic metaphor of light in many of his writings. He has been credited with discussing light from four different perspectives: an epistemology of light, a metaphysics or cosmogony of light, an etiology or physics of light, and a theology of light.\n\nSetting aside the issues of epistemology and theology, Grosseteste's cosmogony of light describes the origin of the universe in what may loosely be described as a medieval \"big bang\" theory. Both his biblical commentary, the \"Hexaemeron\" (1230 x 35), and his scientific \"On Light\" (1235 x 40), took their inspiration from Genesis 1:3, \"God said, let there be light\", and described the subsequent process of creation as a natural physical process arising from the generative power of an expanding (and contracting) sphere of light.\n\nHis more general consideration of light as a primary agent of physical causation appears in his \"On Lines, Angles, and Figures\" where he asserts that \"a natural agent propagates its power from itself to the recipient\" and in \"On the Nature of Places\" where he notes that \"every natural action is varied in strength and weakness through variation of lines, angles and figures.\"\n\nThe English Franciscan, Roger Bacon (c. 1214–1294) was strongly influenced by Grosseteste's writings on the importance of light. In his optical writings (the \"Perspectiva\", the \"De multiplicatione specierum\", and the \"De speculis comburentibus\") he cited a wide range of recently translated optical and philosophical works, including those of Alhacen, Aristotle, Avicenna, Averroes, Euclid, al-Kindi, Ptolemy, Tideus, and Constantine the African. Although he was not a slavish imitator, he drew his mathematical analysis of light and vision from the writings of the Arabic writer, Alhacen. But he added to this the Neoplatonic concept, perhaps drawn from Grosseteste, that every object radiates a power (\"species\") by which it acts upon nearby objects suited to receive those \"species\". Note that Bacon's optical use of the term \"species\" differs significantly from the genus / species categories found in Aristotelian philosophy.\n\nSeveral later works, including the influential \"A Moral Treatise on the Eye\" (Latin: \"Tractatus Moralis de Oculo\") by Peter of Limoges (1240–1306), helped popularize and spread the ideas found in Bacon's writings.\n\nAnother English Franciscan, John Pecham (died 1292) built on the work of Bacon, Grosseteste, and a diverse range of earlier writers to produce what became the most widely used textbook on Optics of the Middle Ages, the \"Perspectiva communis\". His book centered on the question of vision, on how we see, rather than on the nature of light and color. Pecham followed the model set forth by Alhacen, but interpreted Alhacen's ideas in the manner of Roger Bacon.\n\nLike his predecessors, Witelo (c. 1230–1280 x 1314) drew on the extensive body of optical works recently translated from Greek and Arabic to produce a massive presentation of the subject entitled the \"Perspectiva\". His theory of vision follows Alhacen and he does not consider Bacon's concept of \"species\", although passages in his work demonstrate that he was influenced by Bacon's ideas. Judging from the number of surviving manuscripts, his work was not as influential as those of Pecham and Bacon, yet his importance, and that of Pecham, grew with the invention of printing.\n\nTheodoric of Freiberg (ca. 1250–ca. 1310) was among the first in Europe to provide the correct scientific explanation for the rainbow phenomenon, as well as Qutb al-Din al-Shirazi (1236–1311) and his student Kamāl al-Dīn al-Fārisī (1260–1320) mentioned above.\n\nJohannes Kepler (1571–1630) picked up the investigation of the laws of optics from his lunar essay of 1600. Both lunar and solar eclipses presented unexplained phenomena, such as unexpected shadow sizes, the red color of a total lunar eclipse, and the reportedly unusual light surrounding a total solar eclipse. Related issues of atmospheric refraction applied to all astronomical observations. Through most of 1603, Kepler paused his other work to focus on optical theory; the resulting manuscript, presented to the emperor on January 1, 1604, was published as \"Astronomiae Pars Optica\" (\"The Optical Part of Astronomy\"). In it, Kepler described the inverse-square law governing the intensity of light, reflection by flat and curved mirrors, and principles of pinhole cameras, as well as the astronomical implications of optics such as parallax and the apparent sizes of heavenly bodies. \"Astronomiae Pars Optica\" is generally recognized as the foundation of modern optics (though the law of refraction is conspicuously absent).\n\nWillebrord Snellius (1580–1626) found the mathematical law of refraction, now known as Snell's law, in 1621. Subsequently, René Descartes (1596–1650) showed, by using geometric construction and the law of refraction (also known as Descartes' law), that the angular radius of a rainbow is 42° (i.e. the angle subtended at the eye by the edge of the rainbow and the rainbow's centre is 42°). He also independently discovered the law of reflection, and his essay on optics was the first published mention of this law.\n\nChristiaan Huygens (1629–1695) wrote several works in the area of optics. These included the \"Opera reliqua\" (also known as \"Christiani Hugenii Zuilichemii, dum viveret Zelhemii toparchae, opuscula posthuma\") and the \"Traité de la lumière\".\n\nIsaac Newton (1643–1727) investigated the refraction of light, demonstrating that a prism could decompose white light into a spectrum of colours, and that a lens and a second prism could recompose the multicoloured spectrum into white light. He also showed that the coloured light does not change its properties by separating out a coloured beam and shining it on various objects. Newton noted that regardless of whether it was reflected or scattered or transmitted, it stayed the same colour. Thus, he observed that colour is the result of objects interacting with already-coloured light rather than objects generating the colour themselves. This is known as Newton's theory of colour. From this work he concluded that any refracting telescope would suffer from the dispersion of light into colours, and invented a reflecting telescope (today known as a Newtonian telescope) to bypass that problem. By grinding his own mirrors, using Newton's rings to judge the quality of the optics for his telescopes, he was able to produce a superior instrument to the refracting telescope, due primarily to the wider diameter of the mirror. In 1671 the Royal Society asked for a demonstration of his reflecting telescope. Their interest encouraged him to publish his notes \"On Colour\", which he later expanded into his \"Opticks\". Newton argued that light is composed of particles or \"corpuscles\" and were refracted by accelerating toward the denser medium, but he had to associate them with waves to explain the diffraction of light (\"Opticks\" Bk. II, Props. XII-L). Later physicists instead favoured a purely wavelike explanation of light to account for diffraction. Today's quantum mechanics, photons and the idea of wave-particle duality bear only a minor resemblance to Newton's understanding of light.\n\nIn his \"Hypothesis of Light\" of 1675, Newton posited the existence of the ether to transmit forces between particles. In 1704, Newton published \"Opticks\", in which he expounded his corpuscular theory of light. He considered light to be made up of extremely subtle corpuscles, that ordinary matter was made of grosser corpuscles and speculated that through a kind of alchemical transmutation \"Are not gross Bodies and Light convertible into one another, ...and may not Bodies receive much of their Activity from the Particles of Light which enter their Composition?\"\n\nThe effects of diffraction of light were carefully observed and characterized by Francesco Maria Grimaldi, who also coined the term \"diffraction\", from the Latin \"diffringere\", 'to break into pieces', referring to light breaking up into different directions. The results of Grimaldi's observations were published posthumously in 1665. Isaac Newton studied these effects and attributed them to \"inflexion\" of light rays. James Gregory (1638–1675) observed the diffraction patterns caused by a bird feather, which was effectively the first diffraction grating. In 1803 Thomas Young did his famous experiment observing interference from two closely spaced slits in his double slit interferometer. Explaining his results by interference of the waves emanating from the two different slits, he deduced that light must propagate as waves. Augustin-Jean Fresnel did more definitive studies and calculations of diffraction, published in 1815 and 1818, and thereby gave great support to the wave theory of light that had been advanced by Christiaan Huygens and reinvigorated by Young, against Newton's particle theory.\n\nThe earliest known lenses were made from polished crystal, often quartz, and have been dated as early as 750 BC for Assyrian lenses such as the Layard / Nimrud lens. There are many similar lenses from ancient Egypt, Greece and Babylon. The ancient Romans and Greeks filled glass spheres with water to make lenses.\n\nThe earliest historical reference to magnification dates back to ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs in the 5th century BC, which depict \"simple glass meniscal lenses\". The earliest written record of magnification dates back to the 1st century AD, when Seneca the Younger, a tutor of Emperor Nero, wrote: \"Letters, however small and indistinct, are seen enlarged and more clearly through a globe or glass filled with water\". Emperor Nero is also said to have watched the gladiatorial games using an emerald as a corrective lens.\n\nIbn al-Haytham (Alhacen) wrote about the effects of pinhole, concave lenses, and magnifying glasses in his \"Book of Optics\". Roger Bacon used parts of glass spheres as magnifying glasses and recommended them to be used to help people read. Roger Bacon got his inspiration from Alhacen in the 11th century. He discovered that light reflects from objects rather than emanating from them.\n\nBetween the 11th and 13th century \"reading stones\" were invented. Often used by monks to assist in illuminating manuscripts, these were primitive plano-convex lenses initially made by cutting a glass sphere in half. As the stones were experimented with, it was slowly understood that shallower lenses magnified more effectively. Around 1286, possibly in Pisa, Italy, the first pair of eyeglasses were made, although it is unclear who the inventor was.\n\nThe earliest known working telescopes were the refracting telescopes that appeared in the Netherlands in 1608. Their inventor is unknown: Hans Lippershey applied for the first patent that year followed by a patent application by Jacob Metius of Alkmaar two weeks later (neither was granted since examples of the device seemed to be numerous at the time). Galileo greatly improved upon these designs the following year. Isaac Newton is credited with constructing the first functional reflecting telescope in 1668, his Newtonian reflector.\n\nThe earliest known examples of compound microscopes, which combine an objective lens near the specimen with an eyepiece to view a real image, appeared in Europe around 1620. The design is very similar to the telescope and, like that device, its inventor is unknown. Again claims revolve around the spectacle making centers in the Netherlands including claims it was invented in 1590 by Zacharias Janssen and/or his father, Hans Martens, claims it was invented by rival spectacle maker, Hans Lippershey, and claims it was invented by expatriate Cornelis Drebbel who was noted to have a version in London in 1619. Galileo Galilei (also sometimes cited as a compound microscope inventor) seems to have found after 1609 that he could close focus his telescope to view small objects and, after seeing a compound microscope built by Drebbel exhibited in Rome in 1624, built his own improved version. The name \"microscope\" was coined by Giovanni Faber, who gave that name to Galileo Galilei's compound microscope in 1625.\n\nLight is made up of particles called photons and hence inherently is quantized. Quantum optics is the study of the nature and effects of light as quantized photons. The first indication that light might be quantized came from Max Planck in 1899 when he correctly modelled blackbody radiation by assuming that the exchange of energy between light and matter only occurred in discrete amounts he called quanta. It was unknown whether the source of this discreteness was the matter or the light. In 1905, Albert Einstein published the theory of the photoelectric effect. It appeared that the only possible explanation for the effect was the quantization of light itself. Later, Niels Bohr showed that atoms could only emit discrete amounts of energy. The understanding of the interaction between light and matter following from these developments not only formed the basis of quantum optics but also were crucial for the development of quantum mechanics as a whole. However, the subfields of quantum mechanics dealing with matter-light interaction were principally regarded as research into matter rather than into light and hence, one rather spoke of atom physics and quantum electronics.\n\nThis changed with the invention of the maser in 1953 and the laser in 1960. Laser science—research into principles, design and application of these devices—became an important field, and the quantum mechanics underlying the laser's principles was studied now with more emphasis on the properties of light, and the name \"quantum optics\" became customary.\n\nAs laser science needed good theoretical foundations, and also because research into these soon proved very fruitful, interest in quantum optics rose. Following the work of Dirac in quantum field theory, George Sudarshan, Roy J. Glauber, and Leonard Mandel applied quantum theory to the electromagnetic field in the 1950s and 1960s to gain a more detailed understanding of photodetection and the statistics of light (see degree of coherence). This led to the introduction of the coherent state as a quantum description of laser light and the realization that some states of light could not be described with classical waves. In 1977, Kimble et al. demonstrated the first source of light which required a quantum description: a single atom that emitted one photon at a time. Another quantum state of light with certain advantages over any classical state, squeezed light, was soon proposed. At the same time, development of short and ultrashort laser pulses—created by Q-switching and mode-locking techniques—opened the way to the study of unimaginably fast (\"ultrafast\") processes. Applications for solid state research (e.g. Raman spectroscopy) were found, and mechanical forces of light on matter were studied. The latter led to levitating and positioning clouds of atoms or even small biological samples in an optical trap or optical tweezers by laser beam. This, along with Doppler cooling was the crucial technology needed to achieve the celebrated Bose–Einstein condensation.\n\nOther remarkable results are the demonstration of quantum entanglement, quantum teleportation, and (recently, in 1995) quantum logic gates. The latter are of much interest in quantum information theory, a subject which partly emerged from quantum optics, partly from theoretical computer science.\n\nToday's fields of interest among quantum optics researchers include parametric down-conversion, parametric oscillation, even shorter (attosecond) light pulses, use of quantum optics for quantum information, manipulation of single atoms, Bose–Einstein condensates, their application, and how to manipulate them (a sub-field often called atom optics), and much more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47195853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47195853", "title": "In Search of a Character: Two African Journals", "text": "In Search of a Character: Two African Journals\n\nIn Search of a Character: Two African Journals is a slim volume, part travel book, part novelist’s journal, written by English author Graham Greene and first published in 1961.\nGreene set two of his novels in Africa; \"A Burnt-Out Case\", set in the Belgian Congo, and \"The Heart of the Matter\", set in Sierra Leone. This book contains the journals, not originally intended for publication, that Greene kept on journeys he made for research purposes before writing those two novels.\n\nThe first part, Congo Journal, mainly deals with his journey to the Belgian Congo in 1941 and the people he meets along the way. \nThe second part, Convoy to West Africa, covers his journey to Sierra Leone in 1959. He made this trip with the story of his 1960 novel A Burnt-Out Case already partly written and it is apparent he is searching for characters to populate that story. Greene fans often find it interesting as a fascinating glimpse into the mind of the writer and of the man.\n"}
{"id": "1308395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1308395", "title": "Index (publishing)", "text": "Index (publishing)\n\nAn index (plural: usually indexes, more rarely indices; see below) is a list of words or phrases ('headings') and associated pointers ('locators') to where useful material relating to that heading can be found in a document or collection of documents. Examples are an index in the back matter of a book and an index that serves as a library catalog. \n\nIn a traditional back-of-the-book index, the headings will include names of people, places, events, and concepts selected by the indexer as being relevant and of interest to a possible reader of the book. The indexer may be the author, the editor, or a professional indexer working as a third party. The pointers are typically page numbers, paragraph numbers or section numbers. \n\nIn a library catalog the words are authors, titles, subject headings, etc., and the pointers are call numbers. Internet search engines (such as Google) and full-text searching help provide access to information but are not as selective as an index, as they provide non-relevant links, and may miss relevant information if it is not phrased in exactly the way they expect.\n\nPerhaps the most advanced investigation of problems related to book indexes is made in the development of topic maps, which started as a way of representing the knowledge structures inherent in traditional back-of-the-book indexes. The concept embodied by book indexes lent its name to database indexes, which similarly provide an abridged way to look up information in a larger collection, albeit one for computer use rather than human use.\n\nIn the English language, indexes have been referred to as early as 1593, as can be seen from lines in Christopher Marlowe's \"Hero and Leander\" of that year:\n\n\"Therefore, even as an index to a book\"\n\"So to his mind was young Leander's look.\"\n\nA similar reference to indexes is in Shakespeare's lines from \"Troilus and Cressida\" (I.3.344), written nine years later:\n\n\"And in such indices, althougo small pricks\" \n\"To their subsequent volumes, there is seen\" \n\"The baby figure of the giant mass\" \n\"Of things to come at large.\"\n\nBut according to G. Norman Knight, \"at that period, as often as not, by an 'index to a book' was meant what we should now call a table of contents.\"\n\nAmong the first indexes – in the modern sense – to a book in the English language was one in Plutarch's \"Parallel Lives\", in Sir Thomas North's 1595 translation. A section entitled \"An Alphabetical Table of the most material contents of the whole book\" may be found in Henry Scobell's \"Acts and Ordinances of Parliament\" of 1658. This section comes after \"An index of the general titles comprised in the ensuing Table\". Both of these indexes predate the index to Alexander Cruden's \"Concordance\" (1737), which is erroneously held to be the earliest index found in an English book.\n\nThe word is derived from Latin, in which \"index\" means \"one who points out\", an \"indication\", or a \"forefinger\".\n\nIn Latin, the plural form of the word is \"indices\". In English, the plural \"indices\" is commonly used in mathematical and computing contexts, and sometimes in bibliographical contexts – for example, in the 17-volume \"\" (1999–2002). However, this form is now seen as an archaism by many writers and commentators, who prefer the anglicised plural \"indexes\". \"Indexes\" is widely used in the publishing industry; in the International Standard ISO 999, \"Information and documentation – Guidelines for the content, organization and presentation of indexes\"; and is preferred by the \"Oxford Style Manual\". \"The Chicago Manual of Style\" allows both forms.\n\nG. Norman Knight quotes Shakespeare's lines from \"Troilus and Cressida\" (I.3.344) – \"And in such indexes ...\" – and comments:\n\n\"But the real importance of this passage is that it establishes for all time the correct literary plural; we can leave the Latin form \"indices\" to the mathematicians (and similarly \"appendices\" to the anatomists).\"\n\nThe indexer reads through the text, identifying indexable concepts (those for which the text provides useful information and which will be of relevance for the text's readership). The indexer creates index headings to represent those concepts, which are phrased such that they can be found when in alphabetical order (so, for example, one would write 'indexing process' rather than 'how to create an index'). These headings and their associated locators (indicators to position in the text) are entered into specialist indexing software which handles the formatting of the index and facilitates the editing phase. The index is then edited to impose consistency throughout the index.\n\nIndexers must analyze the text to enable presentation of concepts and ideas in the index that may not be named within the text. The index is intended to help the reader, researcher, or information professional, rather than the author, find information, so the professional indexer must act as a liaison between the text and its ultimate user.\n\nIn the United States, according to tradition, the index for a non-fiction book is the responsibility of the author, but most authors don't actually do it. Most indexing is done by freelancers hired by authors, publishers or an independent business which manages the production of a book, publishers or book packagers. Some publishers and database companies employ indexers.\n\nBefore indexing software existed, indexes were created using slips of paper or, later, index cards. After hundreds of such slips or cards were filled out (as the indexer worked through the pages of the book proofs), they could then be shuffled by hand into alphabetical order, at which point they served as manuscript to be typeset into the printed index.\n\nCommercial software is available to aid the indexer in building a book index. There are several dedicated, indexing software programs available to assist with the special sorting and copying needs involved in index preparation. The most widely known include Cindex, Macrex, PDF Index Generator and SkyIndex. TExtract is a hybrid semi-automatic program combining conventional manual indexing with automated indexing features and text linking.\n\nEmbedded indexing involves including the index headings in the midst of the text itself, but surrounded by codes so that they are not normally displayed. A usable index is then generated automatically from the embedded text using the position of the embedded headings to determine the locators. Thus, when the pagination is changed the index can be regenerated with the new locators.\n\nLaTeX documents support embedded indexes primarily through the MakeIndex package. Several widely used XML DTDs, including DocBook and TEI, have elements that allow index creation directly in the XML files. Most word processing software, such as StarWriter/OpenOffice.org Writer, Microsoft Word, and WordPerfect, as well as some desktop publishing software (for example, FrameMaker and InDesign), as well as other tools (MadCap Software's Flare)) have some facility for embedded indexing as well. TExtract and IndeXExploit support embedded indexing of Microsoft Word documents.\n\nAn embedded index requires more time to create than a conventional static index; however, an embedded index can save time in the long run when the material is updated or repaginated. This is because, with a static index, if even a few pages change, the entire index must be revised or recreated while, with an embedded index, only the pages that changed need updating or indexing.\n\nIndexes are designed to help the reader find information quickly and easily. A complete and truly useful index is not simply a list of the words and phrases used in a publication (which is properly called a concordance), but an organized map of its contents, including cross-references, grouping of like concepts, and other useful intellectual analysis.\n\nSample back-of-the-book index excerpt:\n\nIn books, indexes are usually placed near the end (this is commonly known as \"BoB\" or back-of-book indexing). They complement the table of contents by enabling access to information by specific subject, whereas contents listings enable access through broad divisions of the text arranged in the order they occur. It has been remarked that, while \"[a]t first glance the driest part of the book, on closer inspection the index may provide both interest and amusement from time to time.\"\n\nSome principles of good indexing include:\n\nIndexing pitfalls:\n\nSome indexers specialize in specific formats, such as scholarly books, microforms, web indexing (the application of a back-of-book-style index to a website or intranet), search engine indexing, database indexing (the application of a pre-defined controlled vocabulary such as MeSH to articles for inclusion in a database), and periodical indexing (indexing of newspapers, journals, magazines).\n\nSome indexers with expertise in controlled vocabularies also work as taxonomists and ontologists.\n\nSome indexers specialize in particular subject areas, such as anthropology, business, computers, economics, education, government documents, history, law, mathematics, medicine, psychology, and technology. An indexer can be found for any subject.\n\nIn \"The Library of Babel\", a short story by Jorge Luis Borges, there is an index of indexes that catalogues all of the books in the library, which contains all possible books.\n\nKurt Vonnegut's novel \"Cat's Cradle\" includes a character who is a professional indexer and believes that \"indexing [is] a thing that only the most amateurish author [undertakes] to do for his own book.\" She claims to be able to read an author's character through the index he created for his own history text, and warns the narrator, an author, \"Never index your own book.\"\n\nVladimir Nabokov's novel \"Pale Fire\" includes a parody of an index, reflecting the insanity of the narrator.\n\nMark Danielewski's novel \"House of Leaves\" contains an exhaustive 41 page index of words in the novel, including even large listings for inconsequential words such as \"the\", \"and\", and \"in\".\n\n\nThe American Society for Indexing, Inc. (ASI) is a national association founded in 1968 to promote excellence in indexing and increase awareness of the value of well-designed indexes. ASI serves indexers, librarians, abstractors, editors, publishers, database producers, data searchers, product developers, technical writers, academic professionals, researchers and readers, and others concerned with indexing. It is the only professional organization in the United States devoted solely to the advancement of indexing, abstracting and related methods of information retrieval.\n\nOther similar societies include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "144551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144551", "title": "Knapping", "text": "Knapping\n\nKnapping is the shaping of flint, chert, obsidian or other conchoidal fracturing stone through the process of lithic reduction to manufacture stone tools, strikers for flintlock firearms, or to produce flat-faced stones for building or facing walls, and flushwork decoration. The original Germanic term \"knopp\" meant strike, shape, or work, so it could theoretically have referred equally well to making a statue or dice. Modern usage is more specific, referring almost exclusively to the hand-tool pressure-flaking process pictured.\n\nFlintknapping or knapping is done in a variety of ways depending on the purpose of the final product. For stone tools and flintlock strikers, chert is worked using a fabricator such as a hammerstone to remove lithic flakes from a nucleus or core of tool stone. Stone tools can then be further refined using wood, bone, and antler tools to perform pressure flaking.\n\nFor building work a hammer or pick is used to split chert nodules supported on the lap. Often the chert nodule will be split in half to create two cherts with a flat circular face for use in walls constructed of lime. More sophisticated knapping is employed to produce near-perfect cubes which are used as bricks.\n\nThere are many different methods of shaping stone into useful tools. Early knappers could have used simple hammers made of wood or antler to shape stone tools. The factors that contribute to the knapping results are varied, but the EPA (exterior platform angle) indeed influences many attributes, such as length, thickness and termination of flakes.\n\n\"Hard hammer\" techniques are used to remove large flakes of stone. Early knappers and hobbyists replicating their methods often use cobbles of very hard stone, such as quartzite. This technique can be used by flintknappers to remove broad flakes that can be made into smaller tools. This method of manufacture is believed to have been used to make some of the earliest stone tools ever found, some of which date from over 2 million years ago.\n\n\"Soft hammer\" techniques are more precise than hard hammer methods of shaping stone. Soft hammer techniques allow a knapper to shape a stone into many different kinds of cutting, scraping, and projectile tools. These \"soft hammer\" techniques also produce longer, thinner flakes, potentially allowing for material conservation or a lighter lithic tool kit to be carried by mobile societies.\n\n\"Pressure flaking\" involves removing narrow flakes along the edge of a stone tool. This technique is often used to do detailed thinning and shaping of a stone tool. Pressure flaking involves putting a large amount of force across a region on the edge of the tool and (hopefully) causing a narrow flake to come off of the stone. Modern hobbyists often use pressure flaking tools with a copper or brass tip, but early knappers could have used antler tines or a pointed wooden punch; traditionalist knappers still use antler tines and copper-tipped tools. The major advantage of using soft metals rather than wood or bone is that the metal punches wear down less and are less likely to break under pressure.\n\nIn cultures that have not adopted metalworking technologies, the production of stone tools by knappers is common, but in modern cultures the making of such tools is the domain of experimental archaeologists and hobbyists. Archaeologists usually undertake the task so that they can better understand how prehistoric stone tools were made.\n\nKnapping is often learned by outdoorsmen.\n\nKnapping \"gun flints\", used by flintlock firearms was formerly a major industry in flint bearing locations, such as Brandon in Suffolk, England and the small towns of Meusnes and Couffy in France. Meusnes has a small museum dedicated to the industry.\n\nIn 1804, during the Napoleonic Wars, Brandon was supplying over 400,000 flints a month for use by the British Army and Navy. Brandon knappers made gun flints for export to Africa as late as the 1960s.\n\nKnapping for building purposes is still a skill that is practiced in the flint-bearing regions of southern England, such as Sussex, Suffolk and Norfolk, and in northern France, especially Brittany and Normandy, where there is a resurgence of the craft due to government funding.\n\nHistorically, flint knappers commonly suffered from silicosis, due to the inhalation of flint dust. This has been called \"the world's first industrial disease\".\n\nWhen gun flint knapping was a large-scale industry in Brandon, silicosis was widely known as \"knappers' rot\". It has been claimed silicosis was responsible for the early death of three-quarters of Brandon gun flint makers. In one workshop, seven of the eight workmen died of the condition before the age of fifty.\n\nModern knappers are advised to work in the open air to reduce the dust hazard, and to wear eye and hand protection. Some modern knappers wear a respirator to guard against dust.\n\nModern American interest in knapping can be traced back to the study of a California Native American called Ishi who lived in the early twentieth century. Ishi taught scholars and academics traditional methods of making stone tools and how to use them for survival in the wild. Early European explorers to the New world were also exposed to flint knapping techniques. Additionally, several pioneering nineteenth-century European experimental knappers are also known and in the late 1960s and early 1970s experimental archaeologist Don Crabtree published texts such as \"Experiments in Flintworking\". François Bordes was an early writer on Old World knapping; he experimented with ways to replicate stone tools found across Western Europe. These authors helped to ignite a small craze in knapping among archaeologists and prehistorians.\n\nEnglish archaeologist Phil Harding is another contemporary expert, whose exposure on the television series Time Team has led to him being a familiar figure in the UK and beyond. Many groups, with members from all walks of life, can now be found across the United States and Europe. These organizations continue to demonstrate and teach various ways of shaping stone tools.\n\n"}
{"id": "7523694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7523694", "title": "Knismesis and gargalesis", "text": "Knismesis and gargalesis\n\nKnismesis and gargalesis are the scientific terms, coined in 1897 by psychologists G. Stanley Hall and Arthur Allin, used to describe the two types of tickling. Knismesis refers to the light, feather-like type of tickling. This type of tickling generally does not induce laughter and is often accompanied by an itching sensation. Gargalesis refers to harder, laughter-inducing tickling, and involves the repeated application of high pressure to sensitive areas. While the two terms are used in academic papers, they do not appear in many dictionaries and their origin is rarely declared. The term knismesis comes from the Greek <nowiki>\"</nowiki>knismos<nowiki>\"</nowiki> meaning itching. The term gargalesis stems from the Greek <nowiki>\"</nowiki>gargalizein<nowiki>\"</nowiki> meaning to tickle. The suffix <nowiki>\"</nowiki>-esis<nowiki>\"</nowiki> is used to form nouns of action or process. \n\nThe knismesis phenomenon requires low levels of stimulation to sensitive parts of the body, and can be triggered by a light touch or by a light electric current. Knismesis can also be triggered by crawling insects or parasites, prompting scratching or rubbing at the ticklish spot, thereby removing the pest. It is possible that this function explains why knismesis produces a similar response in many different kinds of animals. In a famous example, described in Peter Benchley's \"Shark!\", it is possible to tickle the area just under the snout of a great white shark, putting it into a near-hypnotic trance.\n\nThe gargalesis type of tickle works on primates (which include humans), and possibly on other species. For example, ultrasonic vocalizations described as \"chirping\", which play into social behavior and even have therapeutic effects, are reported in rats in response to human tickling. However, adult female rats may find the tickling sensation adverse. Because the nerves involved in transmitting \"light\" touch and itch differ from those nerves that transmit \"heavy\" touch, pressure and vibration, it is possible that the difference in sensations produced by the two types of tickle is due to the relative proportion of itch sensation versus touch sensation. While it is possible to trigger a knismesis response in oneself, it is usually impossible to produce gargalesthesia, the gargalesis tickle response, in oneself. Hypergargalesthesia is the condition of extreme sensitivity to tickling.. The words knismesis and gargalesis were both used by Susie Dent in an episode of the BBC game show, Would I Lie to You? (Season 11, episode 4).\n"}
{"id": "639018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=639018", "title": "Legends Football League", "text": "Legends Football League\n\nThe Legends Football League (LFL) is a women's 7-on-7 tackle American football league, with games played in the spring and summer at NBA, NFL, NHL and MLS arenas and stadiums. The league was founded in 2009 as the Lingerie Football League and was rebranded as the Legends Football League in 2013. The league's administrative offices are located in Los Angeles.\n\nThe concept of the LFL originated from an alternative Super Bowl halftime television special called the Lingerie Bowl, a pay-per-view event broadcast opposite the Super Bowl halftime show. The first three Lingerie Bowls were held annually from 2004 to 2006 and were billed as Lingerie Bowls I, II, and III. From 2007 to 2009, the next three planned Lingerie Bowls (billed as Lingerie Bowls IV, V, and VI) were all cancelled for various reasons. In 2009, LFL chairman Mitch Mortaza expanded the concept from a single annual exhibition game to a ten-team lingerie football league.\n\nMost LFL teams in the United States use the same color scheme as a professional men's football team in the area. Generally, this would be the local NFL teams, although UFL (Las Vegas, Orlando), and former NFL (Los Angeles) teams' color schemes have been used in areas with no current NFL team. In Canada, the teams' colors are based on either CFL teams (Toronto, Regina) or ice hockey teams (BC, Saskatoon). As of 2014, some teams in Australia use the local state colors. In addition, a small number of US based have adopted their own color schemes not reflective of other local teams.\n\nMany of the teams are coached by former NFL players and coaches who are already well known in their respective cities. Many of the players have a background in competitive athletics at the college and semi-pro level, in sports such as track and field, tennis, volleyball, softball, soccer, basketball, and fitness-style bodybuilding. A few also have experience in tackle football from playing in other semi-pro leagues.\n\nOn January 10, 2013, the Lingerie Football League announced it would change its name to the Legends Football League (while still retaining the LFL moniker). The league announced that the athletes would wear \"performance apparel\" instead of lingerie, but the uniforms look very much the same as before. In addition to the new uniforms, redesigned shoulder pads were introduced to provide more protection for players. Other league changes included eliminating images of sexy women from team logos and changing the league tagline from \"True Fantasy Football\" to \"Women of the Gridiron\".\n\nPlaying style is full-contact and similar to other indoor football leagues. Uniforms consist of shoulder pads, elbow pads, knee pads, performance wear, and ice hockey-style helmets with clear plastic visors in lieu of face masks. Prior to the 2013 season, players wore garters, bras, and panties.\n\nThere are no kickoffs, except the option for an on-side kick should the game be close near the end, nor field goals; halves and after scores begin on team's own 15-yard line. Kicking off after every scoring drive was added before the 2013 Pacific Cup, but was removed shortly after the first game of the LFL Australia season. A team must attempt to get a first down on every fourth down. After a touchdown, a team can attempt a one-point conversion from the one-yard line, or a two-point conversion from the three-yard line. Since 2015, teams are given the option to punt if within their own 10 yard line. The defense can return the ball to their end zone off any conversion attempt for 2 points; the offense can get 1 point if safety is scored off the conversion attempt. \n\nThere are seven women on each side of the 50-yard field, one fewer than the eight players usually found in arena football or other indoor leagues. Teams consist of 20 players, only 14 of whom are active on game day. This means that there are usually three or four players who play both ways, as \"iron women\". But coaches are allowed free substitution.\n\nThe standard offensive formation features 1 quarterback, 1 running back, 1 center, 1 guard, 1 tight end, and 2 wide receivers. The standard defensive formation features 2 defensive linewomen, 1 linebacker, 2 cornerbacks, and 2 safeties (strong safety and free safety).\n\nThe field is 50 yards between end zones, 30 yards wide, and the end zones are 8 yards deep, roughly the same as other indoor leagues.\n\nA game consists of four ten-minute quarters and a 12-minute halftime (30-minute halftime in championship). In the event of a tie, an extra 8 minute sudden death period is played; whoever scores first wins it. If still tied, the game ends drawn, and each team receives a one in the tie column in the standings; however, in postseason, multiple 10-minute sudden death periods are played until one team scores, which wins the game. Teams get 2 timeouts per half or overtime period.\n\nTeams are allowed two coaches' challenges per game by throwing a red flag. If after the play is reviewed, it is upheld, the team loses a timeout; the team keeps the timeout if it is reversed; if they win two straight challenges they are granted a third. All reviews are automatic in the final two minutes of each half and all overtime periods, as are scoring plays and turnovers.\n\nAny player who targets another opponent, such as using the helmet to ram an opponent, risk immediate disqualification, plus a 15-yard penalty.\n\nThe LFL began in the United States, but in 2012, the LFL launched a companion league in Canada. The LFL also kicked off an LFL league in Australia in December 2013.\n\nThe LFL plans to launch a fourth global league – LFL Europa – in 2015. LFL Europa would include teams in Dublin (Ireland), Manchester (England), Düsseldorf and Hamburg (Germany). Barcelona (Spain) and Frankfurt (Germany) had previously been mentioned as potential franchise cities.\n\nIn 2015, the LFL is planning to have the champions of each of the four proposed global leagues (US, Canada, Australia, and Europe) compete in an inaugural LFL World Bowl in São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nThe LFL also hopes to launch a Latin American league in the near future which would include six franchises throughout Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina, but this league has no expected start date as of yet.\n\nAfter a successful publicity tour in China and Japan, LFL officials are now looking to debut LFL Asia in the near future, although a set date has not been set until LFL Europa and LFL Latin America have been established.\n\nIn addition to adding new leagues, the league is planning on combining LFL's US, Canada and Latin America into one big division known as LFL North America. That is planned for some time after LFL Canada resumes and LFL Latin America debuts.\n\nFrom January 2015 on, there will three global divisions: LFL Americas, with clubs from Canada, Mexico, and the US; LFL Oceania, with clubs from Australia and New Zealand; and LFL Europa, with clubs from Europe. Every four years, there will be an LFL World Bowl, in which two teams from LFL Americas and one team each team from LFL Oceania and LFL Europa will battle in a single elimination tournament. The LFL is looking for franchise owners as the league continues to grow.\n\nOn June 10, 2015, LFL announced in its State of the Franchise that there would be no international play through 2017. The sole focus will be on growing the league in the US, the exception being international exhibition games to introduce prospective countries to the league.\n\n\nNote that the \"joined\" date refers to the current or most recent incarnation of each team. Several of the LFL's teams, including the Denver Dream and Dallas Desire, have had multiple, separate incarnations that have folded and been revived.\n\nTen teams played in the inaugural 2009–2010 LFL season. The league schedule ran from September 4, 2009, to January 29, 2010, with one game each Friday. Teams played one game each against the other four teams in their conference. The top two teams in each conference advanced to the conference championship games held on February 4, 2010, in Miami, and the conference champions played in Lingerie Bowl VII on February 6, 2010. The Western Conference Los Angeles Temptation defeated the Eastern Conference Chicago Bliss by the score of 27–14.\n\nThe LFL held its first \"All-Fantasy Game\" on June 10, 2010, in Monterrey, Mexico. The Eastern Conference defeated the Western Conference, 36–14. The All-Fantasy Game's co-MVPs were Philadelphia Passion's Tyrah Lusby and Miami Caliente's Anonka Dixon.\n\nFor the 2010–2011 season, the LFL added new franchises in Orlando and Baltimore, while the New York Majesty and Denver Dream suspended operations. This kept the number of league teams at 10.\n\nThe 2011 Lingerie Bowl was held in Las Vegas, Nevada, on February 6, 2011. The Western Conference champion Los Angeles Temptation defeated Eastern Conference champion Philadelphia Passion, 26–25.\n\nThe 2011 All-Fantasy Game was held in Hamilton, Ontario on July 30, 2011, at Copps Coliseum. Trailing 18–6 in the second half, the Eastern Conference rallied to win, 24–18, over the Western Conference. Anonka Dixon, quarterback for the Orlando Fantasy, was awarded offensive MVP for her 3 touchdown passes and game-winning rushing touchdown, while Liz Gorman, a safety with the Tampa Breeze, was named defensive MVP.\n\nThe LFL expanded from 10 franchises to 12 for the 2011–2012 season. The LFL accepted five expansion franchises – the Cleveland Crush, Green Bay Chill, Las Vegas Sin, Minnesota Valkyrie, and Toronto Triumph. Meanwhile, three franchises from the previous season – the Dallas Desire, San Diego Seduction, and Miami Caliente – suspended operations.\n\nThe season kicked off on August 26, 2011, and culminated with Lingerie Bowl IX on February 4, 2012. The LFL Eastern and Western Conference championship games were played back-to-back on January 28, 2012, at Citizens Business Bank Arena in Ontario, California. For the second straight year, the Los Angeles Temptation won the Western Conference championship while the Philadelphia Passion won the Eastern Conference championship, setting up a rematch in the 2012 Lingerie Bowl of the previous year's championship game. The 2012 Lingerie Bowl was played at Orleans Arena in Las Vegas, in the afternoon prior to the start of Super Bowl XLVI. The Los Angeles Temptation won its third consecutive Lingerie Bowl with a 28–6 victory over Philadelphia Passion. The Temptation's Ashley Salerno and Amber Reed were co-MVP's, with Salerno throwing three touchdown passes and Reed scoring two rushing touchdowns.\n\nIn 2012, the LFL expanded its annual \"All-Fantasy\" game into a three-game international series, with one game in Mexico and two games in Australia. The Mexico All-Fantasy Game took place on May 5, 2012, at the Palacio de los Deportes in Mexico City; the Western Conference defeated the Eastern Conference, 37–7. The second match of the \"2012 LFL All-Fantasy Tour\" took place in Brisbane, Australia, on June 2, 2012, at the Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre; the Western Conference again emerged victorious, this time by a 45–36 score. The Western Conference took a 3–0 series sweep with a 31–24 victory in the third and final \"All-Fantasy\" match in Sydney, Australia, on June 9, 2012, at Allphones Arena.\n\nThe league delayed the next LFL US season from fall/winter 2012 to April 2013 in order to shift to a spring/summer schedule and to focus on the 2012 LFL Canada season.\n\nFor the 2013 season, the LFL accepted two expansion franchises – the Omaha Heart and the Atlanta Steam. The Toronto Triumph switched leagues, joining LFL Canada for its inaugural 2012 season, while the Orlando Fantasy officially suspended operations, again leaving the league at 12 teams. The Tampa Breeze relocated to Jacksonville, Florida and were renamed the Jacksonville Breeze. The league also aligned their twelve teams into four three-team divisions for the 2013 season.\n\nThe 2013 LFL US season kicked off on March 30, 2013. Divisional championship games were held on August 17, 2013, and the conference championship games were held on August 24, 2013, in Ontario, California. The Philadelphia Passion advanced to their third straight Legends Cup (formerly the Lingerie Bowl) by winning the Eastern Conference championship, while the Chicago Bliss claimed the Western Conference title. The 2013 Legends Cup was held at Orleans Arena in Las Vegas, on September 1, 2013, with the Chicago Bliss triumphing, 38–14.\n\nThe Pacific Cup was once again played at ShoWare Center on December 6, 2013. This time the Seattle Mist would face the Los Angeles Temptation due to the cancellation of the 2013 Canada season and not enough preparation from the BC Angels. Several key players from the Angels joined the Mist while a few key players from Las Vegas Sin joined the Temptation. The Mist won by a score of 27–25.\n\nIn the 2013 offseason, the LFL announced that the Philadelphia Passion and Minnesota Valkyrie had suspended operations for the 2014 LFL US season\n\nIt was also announced that the Cleveland Crush were moving to Toledo, Ohio, and play its home games at the Huntington Center. However, the team suspended operations and never returned to the league.\n\nThe season concluded with the Chicago Bliss defeating the Atlanta Steam 24-18 in the Legends Cup to win their second consecutive championship title.\n\nThe 2015 season took place from April to September, ending with the 2015 Legends Cup. The Seattle Mist won the title 27–21, defeating the two-time champion Chicago Bliss.\n\nOn September 16, 2015, Austin, Texas, received an expansion team for 2016 to play at the Cedar Park Center and the name was announced as the Austin Acoustic. On November 2, it was announced that Dallas, Texas, would rejoin the league in 2016 after being on hiatus since the end of the 2010–2011 season, retaining the Dallas Desire name, at Dr Pepper Arena. Austin and Dallas were added to the Western Conferences alongside the Seattle Mist and Los Angeles Temptation, while the Las Vegas Sin were suspended for the season. On November 12, the league announced a final team for the 2016 season, called the New England Liberty out of the Verizon Wireless Arena in Manchester, New Hampshire, joining the Chicago Bliss, Atlanta Steam and Omaha Heart in the Eastern Conference.\n\nDuring the season, New England was forced to forfeit its final game as injuries caused the team to have below the minimum number of players needed to field a team. Seattle won a three-way tie with Dallas and Los Angeles for the best record in the Western Conference while Chicago had the best record in the Eastern Conference. Chicago and Atlanta advanced to the playoffs in the East while Seattle and Dallas advanced in the West. Chicago and Seattle won their Conference Championships and advanced to the Legends Cup in a rematch of both the previous championship and a meeting earlier in the season though with the opposite result of those two prior matches. The season ended on August 27, 2016, with the Chicago Bliss defeating the Seattle Mist 31–26 to win their third Legends Cup. The championship game was played at WestWorld in Scottsdale, Arizona.\n\nThe 2017 season began with new teams at Pittsburgh and Denver replacing New England and Dallas. Three teams (Chicago, Los Angeles, and Seattle) completed the regular season with perfect 4–0 records, a first in LFL history. Chicago and Atlanta advanced to the playoffs from the East while Seattle and Los Angeles advanced in the West. Atlanta upset Chicago in the Eastern Conference Championship, their first victory against the Bliss following seven consecutive defeats. In a war of unbeatens, Seattle bested Los Angeles in the Western Conference Championship. The season ended on September 3, 2017, as the Seattle Mist beat the Atlanta Steam 38–28 in the Legends Cup, played at the Citizens Business Bank Arena in Ontario, CA, to cap off their perfect 6–0 season to go with their second LFL title.\n\nThe season began with the new Nashville Knights replacing Pittsburgh in the East. Nashville courted controversy by recruiting half of the 2017 champion Seattle squad as free agents prompting the league to create a new rule limiting teams to only five free agents (Nashville had to give up two of the seven who then returned to Seattle). The Eastern Conference dominated the West in most match-ups and both the Chicago Bliss and Nashville Knights finished the season with 4–0 records. In the West, the Austin Acoustic pulled off an upset against the Atlanta Steam and quickly rose to become the new conference leader in stark contrast to their winless 2017 season. Chicago and Nashville advanced to the playoffs in the East relegating Atlanta to its first post-season absence while 2–2 Austin qualified for its first playoff appearance. Austin was accompanied by the 1–3 Los Angeles Temptation, the first team to do so with a losing record (discounting the 2016 Atlanta Steam that finished 1–2 without its forfeit win from the New England Liberty). Chicago and Austin won their conference championships and advanced to the 2018 Legends Cup. On September 8, 2018, at the H-E-B Center in Cedar Park, Texas, Chicago beat Austin 28–20 to complete a perfect 6–0 season and win their fourth Legend Cup Championship in six years.\n\nFor the 2011–12 LFL United States season, the All-Fantasy Game was played in Hamilton, Ontario. This was due in part to the league's announcement that in 2012 there would be a Canadian Lingerie Football League. LFL Canada was originally scheduled for a twelve-week season with teams in six markets, with the first regular season game on August 25, 2012, culminating with Lingerie Bowl I Canada on November 17, 2012, one week before the 100th Grey Cup.\n\nOn September 28, 2011, it was announced that, in addition to the Toronto Triumph who began play in LFL United States, LFL Canada's other five markets would consist of Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, Quebec City, and Montreal; ironically, none of those five markets would actually get an LFL franchise. On February 9, 2012, the LFL announced that Abbotsford, British Columbia, would be the next Canadian city to host a team in the League. The franchise played its home games at the Abbotsford Entertainment & Sports Centre and competed in the Western Division of LFL Canada. On February 20, 2012, the LFL announced that the franchise would be named the BC Angels following the results of an online fan vote. The decision for Abbotsford to host a team sparked some controversy, including expressed concern from at least one city councilor, as \"Abbotsford is a deeply religious agricultural community.\"\n\nOn February 22, 2012, the LFL announced that Regina, Saskatchewan would be the next Canadian city to host a team in the League. Home games would be played at the Brandt Centre. On March 6, the LFL announced that the franchise would be named the Regina Rage after an online fan vote.\n\nSix days later, on February 28, the LFL announced that Saskatoon, Saskatchewan would join Regina as LFL Canada's second team in the Wheat Province. Home games would be played at the Credit Union Centre. Upon releasing the Saskatoon Sirens' logo and colors, the league announced that LFL Canada was set at four teams for the 2012 season, with the league playing an eight-game schedule, scheduled to end with Lingerie Bowl I Canada the week before the Grey Cup.\n\nThe 2012 LFL Canada season began on August 25, 2012 and culminated with Lingerie Bowl Canada I on November 17, 2012, between the Saskatoon Sirens and the BC Angels at the Abbotsford Entertainment & Sports Centre in Abbotsford, British Columbia. The BC Angels won the inaugural championship game 25–12 with BC Angels' quarterback Mary Anne Hanson and receiver Aleesa Garcia named as the game's MVPs.\n\nOn December 15, 2012, the first annual Pacific Cup was played between the Seattle Mist of LFL US and the BC Angels of LFL Canada. Dubbed the 'Border War', the game was hosted by the Seattle Mist at the ShoWare Center in Kent, Washington, with home venues alternating each season. The Mist won 38-18.\n\nOn June 27, 2013, the 2013 LFL Canada schedule was released. LFL Canada accepted one proposed expansion team, the Calgary Fillies; their home games would be played at the Stampede Corral. Meanwhile, the Toronto Triumph suspended operations for the 2013 season, bringing the number of LFL Canada teams back to four. On September 16, 2013, the LFL officially postponed the entire 2013 LFL Canada season until 2014.\n\nHowever, the BC Angels were expected to participate in the second-annual \"Pacific Cup\", an exhibition game between the Angels and LFL US's Seattle Mist. The 2013 contest was scheduled for December.\nOn October 3, it was announced that the Angels would be replaced in the game by the LA Temptation, citing not enough preparation. However, a few key players from the Angels would make the trip to Seattle to join the Mist. A couple of them are staying to play with the Mist for their 2014 Season.\n\nThe LFL announced plans for an official minor league based out of Sydney, Australia, called the Ladies Gridiron League (LGL). The Ladies Gridiron League was designed to bring awareness of American football to Australian culture. Five teams were announced to take part in this league: Berwick Diamonds, Sutherland Sirens, Western Furries, Newcastle Vipers, and Bondi Rage. However, an official season has yet to take place.\n\nAustralia hosted two games of the 2012 LFL All-Fantasy Game Tour. Two exhibition games between the Eastern and Western Conferences took place on Australia's east coast in Brisbane and Sydney. Queensland native and wide receiver for the Los Angeles Temptation Chloe Butler served as the ambassador of LFL Football coming to Australia and captained the Western Conference squad.\n\nLFL Australia premiered in December 2013. The New South Wales Surge, Queensland Brigade, Victoria Maidens, and Western Australia Angels were the four teams playing in the inaugural 2013–14 LFL Australia season.\n\nOn March 23, 2014, LFL Australia accepted one proposed expansion team, the Adelaide Arsenal their home games would be played at the Coopers Stadium. However, on September 29 the 2014–2015 season was cancelled due to the lack of a broadcast partner with competition planned to resume in 2015–2016 including an expansion into New Zealand.\n\nIn February 2015, it was revealed that the players and coaches had actually left after disputes and issues with LFL management, namely Commissioner Mortaza. Players and coaches left and joined the Ladies Gridiron League, originally a subsidiary of the LFL now operating as its own league.\n\nPart of the requirement to be considered for the Hall of Fame is a minimum of four seasons of involvement at either coaching, executive or player level.\n\nLFL Hall of Fame 2014 Nominees\n3-time champion (2009–2010, 2010–2011, 2011–2012)\n\n2-time Offensive Player of the Year (2010–2011, 2011–2012)\n\n3-time US Champion (2009–2010, 2010–2011, 2011–2012), LFL Australia champion (2013–2014), Mortaza Award (2013)\n\nChampion (2013), 2-time League MVP (2010–2011, 2013)\n\nHall of Fame Inductee 2014 : Monique Gaxiola\n\nLFL Hall of Fame 2015 Nominees\n3-time All Fantasy Player\n\n2-time champion (2010–2011, 2011–2012), Rookie Of the Year (2010–2011), 2-time Lingerie Bowl MVP (2010–2011, 2011–2012)\n\nLFL Canada Champion (2012), Mortaza Award (2011–2012)\n\n2-time Defensive Player of the Year (2009–2010, 2011–2012), Defensive MVP of All-Fantasy Game 2011\n\nHall of Fame Inductee 2015 : Elizabeth 'Liz' Gorman\n\nFrom 2009–2010, weekly games were shot in 1080i high-definition and broadcast on some MyNetworkTV affiliate stations, international stations, and online.\n\nIn 2010, MTV2 licensed the broadcast rights to 20 regular season and two conference playoff games and aired highlights of those games on a program entitled \"LFL Presents: LFL, Friday Night Football on MTV2\". For the 2011–12 season, MTV2 also broadcast the championship game, in addition to presenting the games in their entirety and broadcasting them live at 9:00 PM ET.\n\nIn 2013, the league began airing their games exclusively online on a week-delayed basis, releasing their games every Saturday on YouTube. Games are shot in 1080i.\n\nAt the start of the 2013–2014 Australia season, LFL signed an agreement with 7mate in Australia to broadcast games every Saturday night.\n\nIn 2015, Fuse became the exclusive broadcaster of LFL games in the United States. Games are broadcast on a week-delay basis on Saturday nights, and are later uploaded to YouTube on Fridays. In the fall, Oxygen Media premiered the reality series, \"Pretty. Strong.\", which focuses on the lives and careers of the Chicago Bliss. The show was produced by Relativity Television. \n\nFuse did not broadcast the 2016 season. Instead, games were broadcast in select markets on affiliates of The CW and MyNetworkTV as well as Regional sports networks on a week-delayed basis. \n\nIn 2017, Super Channel became the exclusive Canadian broadcaster of all LFL games through the 2019 season. Super Channel will use the LFL to launch its \"Super Channel SPORTS\" sub-brand that will be used for all sporting and events and sports-themed programming. Eleven Sports Network acquired the broadcast rights to the LFL in the United States.\n\nSince the 2009–2010 season, the Legends Football League has partnered with Five Stone music to compose music for the weekly game highlights, commercials, sound effects, radio shows, and music bed for the games on MTV2 and the international TV stations.\n\nThe LFL theme song was originally composed by Five Stone in a collaboration with the vocalist Piper from the band Flipsyde. The LFL theme song changed in 2013 to \"The Chosen\" by Iowa-based group Drenalin.\n\nStarting with the 2013 Australia season, the LFL has dropped \"The Chosen\" and opted to go with cold openings with dialogue instead of music.\n\nIn 2011, the Legends Football League partnered with Fantazzle Fantasy Sports to present a fantasy football game for the LFL.\n\nIt lasted for a year, before being shutdown and repackaged in 2013 as LFL PartyDeck, a social networking site exclusively for LFL fans, players, and coaches.\n\nIn 2012, the Legends Football League teamed with Japanese-based Yuke's Co. Ltd to design and develop an official LFL game. The video game still does not have a firm release date.\n\nThe league has met with criticism. Critics say the league degrades female athletes through \"pernicious objectification\". The league was accused in its earlier years of fining players for wearing too many clothes, as well as not paying medical bills for injured players. However, the league has responded, claiming that fines were given because the equipment worn was in direct conflict with the league's sponsored gear (e.g. Rawlings and Cutters, at the time). Following the rebranding, the league now allows players to wear other clothing (bras, panties/thongs, extra padding, medical wraps) under the uniform. Players are still required to pay for their own medical insurance and care.\n\nThe league also prohibited players from commenting on personnel matters, a rule that prompted the vast majority of the Toronto Triumph, including team captain Krista Ford, to quit in protest in October 2011. The league claims that that policy has also changed since the rebranding, allowing players to express changes and ideas to keep the league functioning. Originally a professional league with players receiving a cut of net revenue, Mortaza stopped paying his players beginning in the 2011 season and converted the league into an amateur organization; players must also pay for their own health insurance. League founder Mortaza admitted at one point the league was marketed toward \"mostly beer-drinking college students aged 21 and up.\" The league has since attempted to reach a broader audience, including couples, kids, and families.\n\nThe original uniforms of the Lingerie Football League consisted of an athletic bra and underwear that were more revealing than protective. The uniforms had lace and ribbons and the athletes all had to wear garter belts.\n\nThe uniforms have received extensive criticism for their revealing nature. In an ESPN article, Sarah Spain, the co-host of espnW, wrote, \"After watching these women play, I can honestly say I respect the heck out of them as athletes, but I'll still never respect the Lingerie Football League, no matter what name they give it.\" \n\nSome players have responded ambivalently or positively to the uniforms, with one quoted as saying \"I just appreciate playing football, I don’t care what they put me in\", and another favoring the limited clothing, saying \"It's more comfortable this way.\" LFL players with experience in track and field competitions have noted that the typical LFL uniform is comparable to other uniforms, with Elizabeth Govrick of the Minnesota Valkyrie stating she \"ran track and I was wearing, you know, stuff if not close to almost smaller than what I’m wearing out on the football field. You take beach volleyball, you take volleyball, you take other sports where it's pretty much the same thing.\" Adrian Purnell of the Jacksonville Breeze said that the outfits are only for marketing purposes. Heather Furr, a quarterback for the Chicago Bliss said \"I think with little girls watching the game ... if they can see past the uniform and see us as role models, then that's what I want.\" Abbie Sullivan of the Cleveland Crush stated, \"just because we play in the LFL does not mean we promote promiscuity. We are smart females. We are athletes who take care of our bodies. We are the total package.\" Similarly, Toledo Crush player Marija Condric stated, \"Everyone is entitled to their own opinion. Sit down and watch. You’ll forget what we are wearing and you will be thinking about how hard that girl got hit on that last play.\"\n\nOther players are quoted as viewing the uniforms as a necessary evil, with one saying \"Maybe one day, girls won't have to wear lingerie to get people interested [in women's football].\" Liz Gorman, a player with the Jacksonville Breeze, stated she'd rather wear a conventional uniform: \"I mean, I don't like it. You'd rather wear full clothing. I have a bunch of scrapes on me.\" She also indicated a belief that the league is likely to change to conventional uniforms in the future: \"You look back at basketball, you used to have to wear skirts. Obviously it's changed, they have the WNBA now. So if you look back, women's sports has constantly evolved and I think that this sports league is going to end up changing the uniform.\"\n\nAlong with the rebrand of the league in 2013, the league made the decision to change the uniforms. The league felt like the uniforms were too heavy on sex appeal, and traded these uniforms in for \"performance wear.\" While the US remained with the old uniforms for the 2013 season, minus the ribbons and garters, LFL Australia's debut season in the beginning of 2014 marked the debut of the new \"performance wear\" uniforms. The new uniforms resemble the uniforms worn by volleyball players, replacing ribbons with shoelaces on the front of the top and bottom.\n\nThe new uniforms made their debut in the US for the 2014 season. In addition to the shoelaces, the US uniforms feature brighter, more vibrant colors for the teams, with some teams getting new color schemes for the new season. White color away uniforms have been mostly replaced, with both away and home teams sporting what could be considered home color uniforms. White uniforms returned for the 2015 season, but only for certain teams.\n\nIn partnership with Sleefs, the LFL announced new uniforms with new colors for the 2016 season. Numbers and logos are now printed on the uniform as opposed to previously being sewn on. In addition, the league also announced that teams will have a choice of camo or black alternates.\n\nIt was announced by the league that CandlenCaleb would become the new uniform provider for the LFL starting with the 2017 season. In the announcement, the league announced that, for the first time in league history, the uniforms for the last home games of the 2017 season would include long pants in lieu of the regular bikini bottom. The new uniforms still lack leg, hip, or chest padding, and include the existing bra and shoulder pad combination. The uniforms debuted as the standard outfit at the beginning of the 2018 season. While the league, some players, and many fans were pleased with the change, other more vocal fans and players were not, prompting the league to change uniforms late season to a shorts uniform as a means of compromise. The shorts, with a look more similar to indoor volleyball shorts, are 2-3 inches longer than the original bikini bottoms. Some players have worn longer athletic shorts underneath for added protection.\n\nThe league has received many complaints from players in regards to safety. Since the uniforms cover very little skin, the players are very susceptible to injury. Ex-lingerie football player Nikki Johnson was one of the many players that experienced injuries in her time in the league. Those injuries included injuries sustained from hard hits and a broken wrist that required surgery. She, like many other players, believed the league gave very little protection to the women by providing them with weak shoulder pads and weak helmets. Due to lack of coverage around torso, arms, and legs, they can sustain scrapes and bruises very easily.\n\nAs part of the reformation and brand change, LFL and partner Rawlings changed the shoulder pads to be more protective, including a harder plastic shell to cover the shoulders instead of just a pad. In addition, the helmets were given more padding inside and the addition of a concussion meter, meant to go off and alert the trainer of a head injury, regardless of the players saying that they are fine. This putting into place a system where, if a player goes out of action for a head injury, they must pass a physical and mental test before being allowed back on the playing field.\n\nAt the start of the 2014 US season, LFL unveiled new helmets by Bauer, designed with a harder outer shell and more padding than the CCM helmets used the past 4 years. They are still equipped with the concussion meters. Chinstraps, while still by Russell, are thicker and have more padding.\n\nThe shoulder pads were remodeled again for the 2014 season, with more padding given to the shoulders and a thicker plate given to the chest pad. They also introduced new sturdier elbow and knee pads, in addition to new gloves designed by Champion Gloves, replacing Cutters as the leagues official glove.\n\nPassing\n\n4 games, Rating : 178,7, 43/75, 550 yards, TD : 16 Int : 4\n\nRushing\n\n6 games, Att : 70, Yards : 598, Avg : 8.5, Yds/game : 99.7, TD : 18\n\nReceiving\n\n4 games, Rec : 18, Avg/catch : 13.7, Yards : 246, Yds/game : 61.5, TD : 9\n\n4 games, Rec : 6, Avg/catch : 19, Yards : 114, Yds/game : 28.5, TD : 5\n\nTackles\n\n5 games, Tackle : 40, Tckl/game : 8, Sack : 0, Int : 2\n\nInterceptions\n\n5 games, Int : 6, Yards : 73, Long : 26, TD : 0\n\n4 games, Int : 6, Yards : 79, Long : 29, TD : 1\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2353396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2353396", "title": "Little Birds", "text": "Little Birds\n\nLittle Birds is Anaïs Nin's second published work of erotica, which appeared in 1979 two years after her death,\nbut was apparently written in the early 1940s when she was part of a group \"writing pornography for a dollar a day.\"\n\nThe book is a collection of thirteen short stories. The sexual topics covered are quite varied, ranging from pedophilia to lesbianism, but linked by an interest in female subjectivity and in the dialectic of discourse and intercourse. Many of the same characters that appear in \"Delta of Venus\", her first published book of erotica, re-occur here.\n\nThe 'little birds' of the title story refer both to the actual birds used by its exhibitionist protagonist to attract young schoolgirls to his attic, and (metaphorically) to the girls' flight when he finally exposes himself.\n\nIn other stories, Nin calls into question the objectifying tendencies of the male gaze; both male and female complicity in masochism; and the pornographic genre itself through her subtle subversion.\n\nWhile writing her erotica, and organising that of her fellow writers such as George Barker, Nin referred to herself jokingly as the \"madam of this snobbish literary house of prostitution\" for a client who examined sexual activity \"to the exclusion of aspects which are the fuel that ignites it. Intellectual, imaginative, romantic, emotional.\" In her 1976 preface to \"Delta of Venus\" she said \"I had a feeling that Pandora's box contained the mysteries of woman's sensuality, so different from man's and for which man's language was inadequate... Here in the erotica I was writing to entertain, under pressure from a client who wanted me to 'leave out the poetry.' I believed that my style was derived from a reading of men's works. For this reason I long felt that I had compromised my feminine self. I put the erotica aside. Rereading it these many years later, I see that my own voice was not completely suppressed. In numerous passages I was intuitively using a woman's language, seeing sexual experience from a woman's point of view. I finally decided to release the erotica for publication because it shows the beginning efforts of a woman in a world that had been the domain of men.\"\n\nSusie Bright saw the results as forming part of a pioneering feminist erotica.\n\n"}
{"id": "142560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142560", "title": "Maxine Hong Kingston", "text": "Maxine Hong Kingston\n\nMaxine Hong Kingston (; born Maxine Ting Ting Hong; October 27, 1940) is a Chinese American author and Professor Emerita at the University of California, Berkeley, where she graduated with a BA in English in 1962. Kingston has written three novels and several works of non-fiction about the experiences of Chinese Americans.\n\nKingston has contributed to the feminist movement with such works as her memoir \"The Woman Warrior\", which discusses gender and ethnicity and how these concepts affect the lives of women. She has received several awards for her contributions to Chinese American literature, including the National Book Award for Nonfiction in 1981 for \"China Men\".\n\nKingston has received significant criticism for reinforcing racist stereotypes in her work and for fictionalizing traditional Chinese stories in order to appeal to Western perceptions of Chinese people. She has also garnered criticism from female Asian scholars for her \"over-exaggeration of Asian American female oppression\".\n\nKingston was born Maxine Ting Ting Hong on October 27, 1940, in Stockton, California, to first-generation Chinese immigrants, Tom and Ying Lan Hong. She was the third of eight children and the eldest of the six children born in the United States.\n\nIn China, Tom Hong worked as a professional scholar and teacher in his home village of Sun Woi, near Canton. In 1925, Tom left China for the United States in search of better prospects. However, the U.S. in the early twentieth century was plagued with racist employment legislation and had little desire for a well-educated Chinese immigrant, and Tom was thus relegated to working menial jobs. He saved his earnings and became the manager of an illegal gambling house, which led him to get arrested numerous times. Tom \"was canny about his arrests, never giving his real name and—because he apparently sensed that quite a few people thought that all Chinese looked alike—inventing a different name for each arrest. Consequently, he never acquired a police record in his own name.\" Tom was able to bring his wife over in 1940, and shortly thereafter, Kingston was born; she was named \"Maxine\" after a blonde patron at the gambling house who was always remarkably lucky.\n\nKingston was drawn to writing at a young age and won a five-dollar prize from \"Girl Scout Magazine\" for an essay she wrote titled \"I Am an American.\" She majored in engineering at Berkeley before switching to English. In 1962 Kingston married Earll Kingston, an actor, and began a high school teaching career. The two began a family the following year with the birth of their son Joseph Lawrence Chung Mei. In 1965–1967, Maxine taught English and mathematics at Sunset High School in Hayward, California. After relocating to Hawaii in 1967 Maxine began writing extensively, finally completing and publishing her first book, \"The Woman Warrior: Memoir of a Girlhood Among Ghosts\", in 1976. She began teaching English at the University of Hawai'i at Mānoa that same year. By 1981 she had moved on to teach at Berkeley.\n\nHer works often reflect on her cultural heritage and blend fiction with non-fiction. Among her works are \"The Woman Warrior\" (1976), awarded the National Book Critics Circle Award for Nonfiction, and \"China Men\" (1980), awarded the National Book Award. She has written one novel, \"Tripmaster Monkey,\" a story depicting a character based on the mythical Chinese character Sun Wu Kong. Her most recent books are \"To Be The Poet\" and \"The Fifth Book of Peace.\"\n\nA documentary produced by Gayle K. Yamada, \"Maxine Hong Kingston: Talking Story,\" was released in 1990. Featuring notable Asian American authors such as Amy Tan and David Henry Hwang, it explored Kingston's life, paying particular attention to her commentary on cultural heritage and both sexual and racial oppression. The production was awarded the CINE Golden Eagle in 1990. Kingston also participated in the production of Bill Moyers' PBS historical documentary, \"Becoming American: The Chinese Experience\".\n\nKingston was awarded the 1997 National Humanities Medal by President of the United States Bill Clinton. She was a member of the committee to choose the design for the California commemorative quarter.\n\nKingston was arrested on International Women's Day (March 8) in 2003. Participating in an anti-war protest in Washington, D.C. that was coordinated by the women-initiated organization Code Pink, Kingston refused to leave the street after being instructed to do so by local police forces. She shared a jail cell with authors Alice Walker and Terry Tempest Williams who were also participants in the demonstration. Kingston's anti-war stance has significantly trickled into her work; she has stated that writing \"The Fifth Book of Peace\" was initiated and inspired by growing up during World War II.\n\nKingston was honored as a 175th Speaker Series writer at Emma Willard School in September 2005. In April, 2007, Kingston was awarded the Northern California Book Award Special Award in Publishing for \"Veterans of War, Veterans of Peace\" (2006), an anthology which she edited.\n\nIn July, 2014, Kingston was awarded the 2013 National Medal of Arts by President of the United States Barack Obama.\n\nIn an interview published in \"American Literary History\", Kingston disclosed her admiration for Walt Whitman, Virginia Woolf, and William Carlos Williams, who were inspirational influences for her work, shaping her analysis of gender studies. Kingston said of Walt Whitman's work,\n\nI like the rhythm of his language and the freedom and the wildness of it. It's so American. And also his vision of a new kind of human being that was going to be formed in this country—although he never specifically said Chinese—ethnic Chinese also—I'd like to think he meant all kinds of people. And also I love that throughout \"Leaves of Grass\" he always says 'men and women,' 'male and female.' He's so different from other writers of his time, and even of this time. Even a hundred years ago he included women and he always used [those phrases], 'men and women,' 'male and female.'\n\nKingston named the main character of \"Tripmaster Monkey\", Wittman Ah Sing, after Walt Whitman.\n\nOf Woolf, Kingston stated:\n\nI found that whenever I come to a low point in my life or in my work, when I read Virginia Woolf's \"Orlando\", that always seems to get my life force moving again. I just love the way she can make one character live for four hundred years, and that Orlando can be a man. Orlando can be a woman. Virginia broke through constraints of time, of gender, of culture.\n\nSimilarly, Kingston's praise of William Carlos Williams expresses her appreciation of his seemingly genderless work:\n\nI love \"In the American Grain\" because it does the same thing. Abraham Lincoln is a 'mother' of our country. He talks about this wonderful woman walking through the battlefields with her beard and shawl. I find that so freeing, that we don't have to be constrained to being just one ethnic group or one gender-- both [Woolf and Williams] make me feel that I can now write as a man, I can write as a black person, as a white person; I don't have to be restricted by time and physicality.\n\nThough Kingston's work is acclaimed by some, it has also received criticism, especially from some members of the Chinese American community. Playwright and novelist Frank Chin has severely criticized Kingston's \"The Woman Warrior\", stating that Kingston deliberately tarnished the authenticity of Chinese tradition by altering traditional stories and myths to appeal to white sensitivities. Chin has accused Kingston of \"liberally adapting [traditional stories] to collude with white racist stereotypes and to invent a 'fake' Chinese-American culture that is more palatable to the mainstream.\"\n\nKingston commented on her critics' opinions in a 1990 interview in which she stated that men believe that minority women writers have \"achieved success by collaborating with the white racist establishment,\" by \"pander[ing] to the white taste for feminist writing... It's a one-sided argument because the women don't answer. We let them say those things because we don't want to be divisive.\"\n\nHowever, several female Asian scholars have also criticized Kingston's work. Shirley Geok-Lin Lim, a professor of English at the University of California, Santa Barbara, stated that Kingston's \"representations of patriarchal, abusive Chinese history were playing to a desire to look at Asians as an inferior spectacle\". Writer Katheryn M. Fong took exception to Kingston's \"distortion of the histories of China and Chinese America\" and denounced Kingston for her \"over-exaggerated\" depiction of Chinese and Chinese American cultural misogyny. \"The problem is that non-Chinese are reading [Kingston's] fiction as true accounts of Chinese and Chinese American history,\" wrote Fong, who noted that her own father \"was very loving\" towards her.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5075805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075805", "title": "Media evaluation", "text": "Media evaluation\n\nMedia evaluation is a discipline of the social sciences and centres on the analysis of media content rating the exposure using a number of pre-designated criteria commonly including tonal value and presence of key messages. It is said to be one of the fastest growing areas of mass communications research. \n\nThe International Association for Measurement and Evaluation of Communication (AMEC) is the industry appointed trade body for companies and individuals involved in research, measurement and evaluation in editorial media coverage and related communications issues. To be a full member of AMEC, companies must be able to a) offer comprehensive media evaluation, research and interpretation services, b) been in business for at least two years and c) have media evaluation turnover in excess of £150,000 when applying. In addition all companies abide by a strict code of ethics and must implement tight quality control procedures. These conditions ensure that the media avaluation services offered are all to the very highest standard. Further detailed information on the industry is available from AMEC's website. Another organisation is the Commission on Public Relations Measurement & Evaluation which was formed under the auspices of the Institute for Public Relations in 1998. The Commission exists to establish standards and methods for public relations research and measurement, and to issue authoritative best-practices white papers.\n"}
{"id": "438445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438445", "title": "Moneyball", "text": "Moneyball\n\nMoneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game is a book by Michael Lewis, published in 2003, about the Oakland Athletics baseball team and its general manager Billy Beane. Its focus is the team's analytical, evidence-based, sabermetric approach to assembling a competitive baseball team despite Oakland's small budget. A film based on the book, starring Brad Pitt and Jonah Hill, was released in 2011.\n\nThe central premise of \"Moneyball\" is that the collective wisdom of baseball insiders (including players, managers, coaches, scouts, and the front office) over the past century is subjective and often flawed. Statistics such as stolen bases, runs batted in, and batting average, typically used to gauge players, are relics of a 19th-century view of the game and the statistics available at that time. Before sabermetrics was introduced to baseball, teams were dependent on the skills of their scouts to find and evaluate players. Scouts are experienced in the sport, usually having been players or coaches. The book argues that the Oakland A's' front office took advantage of more analytical gauges of player performance to field a team that could better compete against richer competitors in Major League Baseball (MLB).\n\nRigorous statistical analysis had demonstrated that on-base percentage and slugging percentage are better indicators of offensive success, and the A's became convinced that these qualities were cheaper to obtain on the open market than more historically valued qualities such as speed and contact. These observations often flew in the face of conventional baseball wisdom and the beliefs of many baseball scouts and executives.\n\nBy re-evaluating their strategy in this way, the 2002 Athletics, with approximately $44 million in salary, were competitive with larger market teams such as the New York Yankees, who spent over $125 million in payroll that season. Because of its smaller budget, Oakland had to find players undervalued by the market, and their system has proven itself thus far. The approach brought the A's to the playoffs in 2002 and 2003.\n\nLewis explored several themes in the book, such as insiders vs. outsiders (established traditionalists vs. upstart proponents of sabermetrics), the democratization of information causing a flattening of hierarchies, and \"the ruthless drive for efficiency that capitalism demands\". The book also touches on Oakland's underlying economic need to stay ahead of the curve; as other teams begin mirroring Beane's strategies to evaluate offensive talent, diminishing the Athletics' advantage, Oakland begins looking for other undervalued baseball skills, such as defensive capabilities.\n\n\"Moneyball\" also touches on the A's' methods of prospect selection. Sabermetricians argue that a college baseball player's chance of MLB success is much higher than a traditional high school draft pick. Beane maintains that high draft picks spent on high school prospects, regardless of talent or physical potential as evaluated by traditional scouting, are riskier than those spent on more polished college players. Lewis cites A's minor leaguer Jeremy Bonderman, drafted out of high school in 2001 over Beane's objections, as an example of the type of draft pick Beane would avoid. Bonderman had all of the traditional \"tools\" that scouts look for, but thousands of such players have been signed by MLB organizations out of high school over the years and failed to develop. Lewis explores the A's approach to the 2002 MLB draft, when the team had a run of early picks. The book documents Beane's often tense discussions with his scouting staff (who favored traditional subjective evaluation of potential rather than objective sabermetrics) in preparation for the draft to the actual draft, which defied all expectations and was considered at the time a wildly successful (if unorthodox) effort by Beane.\n\n\"Moneyball\" traces the history of the sabermetric movement back to such people as Bill James (now a member of the Boston Red Sox front office) and Craig R. Wright. Lewis explores how James's seminal \"Baseball Abstract\", published annually from the late 1970s through the late 1980s, influenced many of the young, up-and-coming baseball minds that are now joining the ranks of baseball management.\n\n\"Moneyball\" has entered baseball's lexicon; teams that value sabermetrics are often said to be playing \"\"Moneyball\".\" Baseball traditionalists, in particular some scouts and media members, decry the sabermetric revolution and have disparaged \"Moneyball\" for emphasizing sabermetrics over more traditional methods of player evaluation. Nevertheless, \"Moneyball\" changed the way many major league front offices do business. In its wake, teams such as the New York Mets, New York Yankees, San Diego Padres, St. Louis Cardinals, Boston Red Sox, Washington Nationals, Arizona Diamondbacks, Cleveland Indians, and the Toronto Blue Jays have hired full-time sabermetric analysts.\n\nWhen the Mets hired Sandy Alderson – Beane's predecessor and mentor with the A's – as their general manager after the 2010 season, and hired Beane's former associates Paul DePodesta and J.P. Ricciardi to the front office, the team was jokingly referred to as the \"Moneyball Mets\". Like the Oakland A's in the 1990s, the Mets have been directed by their ownership to slash payroll. Under Alderson's tenure, the team payroll dropped below $100 million per year from 2012 to 2014, and the Mets reached the 2015 World Series (defeating MLB's highest-payroll team, the Los Angeles Dodgers, en route).\n\nLewis has acknowledged that the book's success may have hurt the Athletics' fortunes as other teams accepted sabermetrics, reducing Oakland's edge.\n\nDaryl Morey's own unorthodox approaches in the NBA have been called \"Moreyball\".\n\nSince the book's publication and success, Lewis has discussed plans for a sequel to \"Moneyball\" called \"Underdogs\", revisiting the players and their relative success several years into their careers, although only four players from the 2002 draft played much at the Major League level.\n\n\"Moneyball\" also covers the lives and careers of several baseball personalities. The central one is Billy Beane, whose failed playing career is contrasted with wildly optimistic predictions by scouts.\n\nPlayers and people discussed in \"Moneyball\":\n\n\n\n\n\nBeane assembled a list of twenty players they would draft in a \"perfect world\"; meaning if money was no object and they didn't have to compete with the other twenty-nine teams.\n\nThe list, and the teams who drafted them:\n\n\nRichard H. Thaler of the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and Cass R. Sunstein of the University of Chicago Law School described the book as a \"sensation... Lewis has a wonderful story to tell, and he tells it wonderfully... Lewis also raises some serious puzzles that he does not resolve, and his account has some large and perhaps profound implications that he does not much explore.\"\n\nDavid Haglund of Slate and Jonah Keri of Grantland have both criticized the book for glossing over key young talent acquired through the draft and signed internationally. Specifically, they have argued that the book ignores the pitching trio of Tim Hudson, Mark Mulder, and Barry Zito, as well as position players such as Eric Chavez and Miguel Tejada, all of whom were discovered via traditional scouting methodology and were key contributors to the success of the 2002 Athletics. In 2002, Barry Zito received the AL Cy Young Award and Miguel Tejada received the AL MVP Award. \n\nA movie based on the book was released in 2011. Actor Brad Pitt stars as Billy Beane, while Jonah Hill plays a fictional character based on Paul DePodesta; Philip Seymour Hoffman plays A's manager Art Howe. Academy Award-winning screenwriter Steve Zaillian was hired to write the script, and Steven Soderbergh was slated to direct, replacing David Frankel. But in June 2009, because of conflicts over a revised script by Soderbergh, Sony put the movie on hold just days before it was scheduled to begin shooting. Soderbergh was eventually let go.\n\nBennett Miller took over directing duties, and Aaron Sorkin rewrote the script. Shooting began in July 2010 at Blair Field, the Sports Stadium for Wilson High School (Long Beach, California), Sony Studios in Culver City, Dodger Stadium, and the Oakland-Alameda Coliseum. The film was released in theaters on September 23, 2011. \"Moneyball\" was nominated for six Academy Awards, including Best Actor and Best Picture.\n\nThe book is parodied in the \"Simpsons\" episode \"MoneyBART\", in which Lisa manages Bart's Little League baseball team using sabermetric principles. Bill James made an appearance in this episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "645713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645713", "title": "New Left in China", "text": "New Left in China\n\nThe New Left () in the People's Republic of China is a school of intellectual thought that is critical of capitalism and aspects of the Chinese economic reforms and in favour of elements of Maoist-style socialism, which includes a significant role for state planning, the preservation of state-owned enterprises, and a renewed spirit of collectivism. It is also correlated with increased Chinese nationalism after a period of 'low-profile' presence on the world stage during Deng Xiaoping's era. It is seen as a response to problems faced by China during its modernization drive since the 1980s, which has led to mounting social inequality between the coast and the hinterlands, as well as between the rich and the poor. \n\nIts relationship with Maoism and capitalism is complex. Some schools of thought suggest that the New Left wants to return to the mass political movements of the Mao Zedong era and an abandonment of capitalist practices, while others believe that it blends the open markets of capitalism while still maintaining socialist aspects of the community, particularly in rural China.\n\nThe Chinese New Left's origins lie mainly in scholarly people and other intellectuals. They tend to think that the social problems faced by China are caused not only by capitalist loopholes and corruption, but also by the excesses and oversights of Mao Zedong's era. While opposed to capitalism, New Leftists recognize both the strengths and weaknesses of capitalism, and recognize its major and necessary influence on China. Although the capitalist system is fixed in the West, China has the opportunity to learn from Western mistakes as its system is still in flux. Cui Zhiyuan, a leading New Leftist intellectual, believes that it is imperative that socialism and capitalism are not viewed as opposing one another.\n\nZhang Xudong has said that \"an advocate for New Deal- style economic and social policies in China was considered to be a liberal in the 1980s, but 'New Left' by the century's end.\" This overlap suggests that the ideals set forth by New Leftism most strongly resemble the \"democratic socialism\" and \"humanistic Marxism\" of the 1980s.\n\nThe name was first applied in the late 1990s. While the term \"New Left\" implies a belief in Mao's interpretation of Marxism, the school's most well known thinker, Wang Hui, explains the origin of the term:\n\nThe first stirring of a more critical view of official marketization goes back to 1993... But it wasn't until 1997-98 that the label New Left became widely used, to indicate positions outside the consensus. Liberals adopted the term, relying on the negative identification of the 'Left' with late Maoism, to imply that these must be a throw-back to the Cultural Revolution. Up until then, they had more frequently attacked anyone who criticised the rush to marketization as a 'conservative' - this is how Cui Zhiyuan was initially described, for example. From 1997 onwards, this altered. The standard accusatory term became 'New Left'...\n\nActually, people like myself have always been reluctant to accept this label, pinned on us by our adversaries. Partly this is because we have no wish to be associated with the Cultural Revolution, or for that matter with what might be called the 'Old Left' of the reform-era CCP. But it is also because the term New Left is a Western one, with a very distinct set of connotations – generational and political – in Europe and America. Our historical context is Chinese, not Western, and it is doubtful whether a category imported so explicitly from the West could be helpful in today's China.\n\nA critical value of New Leftists is the belief in the universality of human rights. Hu Ping argues that the most important of all human rights is that of freedom of speech. During the Great Leap Forward production of grain decreased and it became evident that many people began to starve. Simultaneously, as reported by the newspapers, the next harvest would present an ample yield. Hu wrote:\n\nAt that time, people on the verge of starvation were not allowed to call out that they were starving. Many people who publicly did this were labeled counterrevolutionaries. It was not permitted to mention that the many millions of people who died had died from starvation. Many officials who reported to higher levels that people were dying from starvation were labeled rightist opportunists. Today when one mentions freedom of speech some people believe that this is just something of special value to intellectuals, especially those intellectuals who are not content with their lot. The tragic example of the three-year-long famine is the most forceful rebuttal of such a view. \n\nA sub-group of this strand of New Leftists are more radical, adhering to Marxism as originally interpreted by Mao and as executed during approximately the first twenty years of the PRC's existence. They believe firmly that China is, and has been for some time, moving away from the communist path, which has resulted and will continue to result in the rise of capitalists who will further exploit peasants and workers, as they did in China before 1949. Similarly to the worldwide Maoist movement, this strain of New Leftists are against the Chinese government's policy of \"openness\" and economic reforms; correspondingly, they do not consider Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution and Great Leap Forward to have been wrong-headed in an ideological sense, even if they do oppose the actual \"outcomes\" and on-the-ground policies of those early experiments.\n\nThese New Leftists are also against capitalist \"so-called\" democracy and look favorably on the \"revolutionary Maoism\" of a generation ago, in contrast to the corruption and money-centeredness they see in current Chinese society. Many of these New Leftists also regret the erosion of guaranteed employment, education, health care, and other former gains of the Chinese Revolution that have been largely lost in the new profit-driven economy. The New Left collection of Chinese tend to look at themselves, like most socialists, as defenders of the people against a dehumanizing and inherently corrupt capitalist system.\n\nOn December 24, 2004, four Chinese protesters were sentenced to three-year prison terms for distributing leaflets entitled \"Mao Forever Our Leader\" at a gathering in Zhengzhou honoring Mao Zedong on the anniversary of his birth. Attacking the current leadership as \"imperialist revisionists,\" the leaflets called on lower-level cadre to \"change (The Party's) current line and to revert to the socialist road.\" The Zhengzhou incident is one of the first manifestations of public nostalgia for the Mao era to make it to the international press, although it is far from clear whether these feelings are widespread. In any case, it is an example of Marxist Chinese New Leftism in action.\n\nChinese New Leftists are often criticised by liberal intellectuals, such as Liu Junning, who consider China not to be liberal \"enough\", both economically and politically. These liberals tend to think that inequality and the widening gap between rich and the poor are serious problems, but that these problems exist in every developing country. Democracy and personal freedoms are seen by these liberals to be important for China, although perhaps not attainable in the near future. These liberals largely consider themselves to be classical, not modern, liberals. The liberal critics and Chinese New Leftists have fiercely debated throughout the mid-1990s and early 2000s. At the heart of this debate is the conflict between liberal representative democracy, based on the Anglo-American political tradition, the English Glorious Revolution and the American Revolution, and the Scottish enlightenment, which is favoured by the Liberals; and conceptions of direct democracy, based on the Jacobin traditions of the French Revolution, the French enlightenment, in particular Rousseau and the Maoist socialist-democratic concept of the mass line.\n\nIn 2008, a group of workers and students formed the political party Maoist Communist Party of China, a underground, non-recognized political party that opposed the government of The Communist Party of China The Party's alleged platform was released on the internet titled, \"The Ten Declarations of the Maoist Communist Party of China\", in which the party questions the legitimacy of the CPC and advocates a reversal of the Deng Xiaoping reforms and a return to socialism. \n\nOn Friday 13 May 2011, National Public Radio's website published a story about Nanjie Village, saying that it is a prime example of recent \"re-collectivizations\" inspired by Mao's original ideas and paying active tribute to him. \"The furniture and appliances in each home are identical, including the big red clocks with Chairman Mao's head, radiating psychedelic colors to the tune \"The East Is Red.\" [Villager] Huang Zunxian owns virtually nothing in his apartment. The possessions are owned by the collective, right down to the couch cushions.\" The report also says that \"Some villages around the country have followed Nanjie's example and re-collectivized,\" but doesn't give any examples of other such villages.\n\nIn the 1990s, rural industry began to stagnate and China's immense peasant population became viewed as a hindrance to China's development. Popular demand for further modernization, urbanization, and marketization, began to outweigh the successes seen by the previous instated Township and Village Enterprises. Cui Zhiyuan and Gan Yang began to instate small rural industries and collective not only to mediate the increasing socioeconomic gap, but also as an alternative to the model of large scale capitalism.\n\nSince 1996, Hegang city has had the most laid-off workers, yet has registered the highest rate of economic growth in China. Cui Zhiyuan suggests that the cause of this phenomenon is due to its utilization of \"combining public land ownership and the market.\" In this way, Hegang city has focused on stimulating its real estate market as a means to stimulate the development of related industries.\n\nAmongst the established Chinese Communist Party's current ideology, it is significant that the idea of privatising China's countryside land outright has not so far been accepted, instead keeping it in public hands. Currently, most Chinese non-urban land is \"used\" privately but cannot be sold, unlike Chinese urban property.\n\nIn 2008, the Third Session of the Seventeenth Central Committee of the Party () initiated a new round of land privatization reforms, but these measures were ultimately quite limited, for the transfer and trading of land remains ambiguous and not \"officially endorsed and encouraged\".\n\nIn November 2017 a group of Maoist students (e.g. Zhang Yunfan) and workers was arrested in Guangzhou for organizing Maoist salon.\n\nA number of Maoist and Marxist leaning students participated in The Jasic Incident in 2018, protesting in favor of the workers of the factory and advocated for workers rights. The students formed JASIC Workers Solidarity Group which included #metoo advocate Yue Xin.On October 11th, fifty student advocates were arrested, their whereabouts are unknown. Political suppression has expanded to universities, factories and the wider public.\n\nMaoism and Neo-Maoism have been increasingly popular after the rise of Xi Jinping, among millenials and the poor of China and more frequently reported by foreign media. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30443797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30443797", "title": "Patome", "text": "Patome\n\nPatome is a database of biological sequence data of issued patents and/or published applications\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51692", "title": "Pete and Dud", "text": "Pete and Dud\n\nPete and Dud were characters played by the comedians and entertainers Peter Cook and Dudley Moore. \n\nThe dialogue format originated in 1964 when Dudley Moore invited Peter Cook to appear in a television performance. Cook scripted a conversation between two men from Dagenham wearing flat caps. This proved to be very popular with television audiences and the partnership was continued during the series \"Not Only... But Also\".\n\nPete is a know-it-all and would-be intellectual, very much in the spirit of E. L. Wisty, and Dud is a put-upon Herbert in a subservient role, who tries to impress Pete with his knowledge. Neither of them has any real sense.\n\nThe \"Dagenham Dialogues\" between the two ranged from paintings (Pete finds the Mona Lisa snooty, and the bottoms of Rubens's nudes seem to follow them around the room), reasons why geckos do not live long and being annoyed by film stars (including \"bloody Greta Garbo\" and \"bloody Anna Magnani\") pestering them for romance.\n\nDuring the 1970s, Cook and Moore used a similar formula for the more adult Derek and Clive recordings.\n\nThe comic and personal relationship between Cook and Moore is the subject of the play \"\", by Chris Bartlett and Nick Awde. In 2010, a group of comedians, Hugh Dennis, Angus Deayton and Alistair McGowan among them, recreated some of the Pete and Dud comic routines on BBC Two in \"Pete and Dud: the Lost Sketches\".\n"}
{"id": "2691458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2691458", "title": "Poverty of the stimulus", "text": "Poverty of the stimulus\n\nPoverty of the stimulus (POS) is the argument from linguistics that children are not exposed to rich enough data within their linguistic environments to acquire every feature of their language. This is considered evidence contrary to the empiricist idea that language is learned solely through experience. The claim is that the sentences children hear while learning a language do not contain the information needed to home in on the grammar of the language.\n\nThe POS is often used as evidence for universal grammar. This is the idea that all languages conform to the same structural principles, which define the space of possible languages.\n\nBoth poverty of the stimulus and universal grammar are terms that can be credited to Noam Chomsky. Chomsky coined the term \"poverty of the stimulus\" in 1980, however he had argued for the idea since his 1959 review of B.F. Skinner's Verbal Behavior. The POS is also related to Nelson Goodman's new riddle of induction.\n\nAn argument from the poverty of the stimulus generally takes the following structure:\n\n\nChomsky coined the term \"poverty of the stimulus\" in 1980. This idea is closely related to what Chomsky calls \"Plato's Problem\". He outlined this philosophical approach in the first chapter of the \"Knowledge of Language\" in 1986. Plato's Problem traces back to \"Meno\", a Socratic dialogue. In Meno, Socrates unearths knowledge of geometry concepts from a servant who was never explicitly taught them. Plato's Problem directly parallels the idea of the innateness of language, universal grammar, and more specifically the poverty of the stimulus argument because it reveals that people's knowledge is richer than what they are exposed to. Chomsky illustrates that humans are not exposed to all structures of their language, yet they fully achieve knowledge of these structures.\n\nLinguistic nativism is the theory that humans are born with some knowledge of language. One acquires a language not entirely through experience. According to Noam Chomsky, \"The speed and precision of vocabulary acquisition leaves no real alternative to the conclusion that the child somehow has the concepts available before experience with language and is basically learning labels for concepts that are already a part of his or her conceptual apparatus.\" Chomsky's view that the humans possess an innate faculty of language is shared by Steven Pinker. One of the most significant arguments generative grammarians have for linguistic nativism is the poverty of the stimulus argument.\n\nPullum and Scholz frame the poverty of the stimulus argument by examining all of the ways that the input is insufficient for language acquisition. First, children are exposed only to positive evidence. They do not receive explicit correction or instruction about what is not possible in the language. Second, the input that children receive is degenerate in terms of scope and quality. Degeneracy of scope means that the input does not contain information about the full extent of any grammatical rules. Degeneracy of quality means that children are exposed to speech errors, utterances by nonnative speakers, and false starts, potentially obscuring the grammatical structure of the language. Furthermore, the linguistic data each child is exposed to is different and so the basis for learning is idiosyncratic. However, despite these insufficiencies, children eventually acquire the grammar of the language they are exposed to. Further, other organisms in the same environment do not. From the nativists' point of view, the insufficiency of the input leads to the conclusion that humans are hard-wired with a UG and thus support the innateness hypothesis.\n\nHowever, the argument that the poverty of stimulus supports the innateness hypothesis remains controversial. For example, Fiona Cowie claims that the Poverty of Stimulus argument fails \"on both empirical and conceptual grounds to support nativism\".\n\nAn overarching theme in examples provided as evidence for the poverty of the stimulus is that children acquire grammatical rules based on evidence that is consistent with multiple generalizations. And since children are not instructed in the grammar of their language, the gap must be filled in by properties of the learner.\n\nIn general, pronouns can refer to any prominent individual in the discourse context. However, a pronoun cannot find its antecedent in certain structural positions, as defined by the Binding Theory. For example, the pronoun \"he\" can refer to the Ninja Turtle in (1) but not (2), above. Given that speech to children does not indicate what interpretations are impossible, the input is equally consistent with a grammar that allows coreference between \"he\" and \"the Ninja Turtle\" in (2) and one that does not. But, since all speakers of English recognize that (2) does not allow this coreference, this aspect of the grammar must come from some property internal to the learner.\n\nThe sentences in (1) and (2) illustrate the active-passive alternation in English. The Noun Phrase after the verb in the active (1) is the subject in the passive (2). Data like (2) would be compatible with a passive rule stated in terms of linear order (move the 1st NP after the verb) or syntactic structure (move the highest NP after the verb). The data in (3-5) illustrate that the actual rule is formulated in terms of structure. If it were stated in terms of linear order, then (4) would be ungrammatical and (5) would be grammatical. But the opposite is true. However, children may not be exposed to sentences like (3-5) as evidence in favor of the correct grammar. Thus, the fact that all adult speakers agree that (4) is grammatical and (5) is not suggests that the linear rule was never even considered and that children are predisposed to a structure based grammatical system.\n\nThe English word \"one\" can refer back to a previously mentioned property in the discourse. For example in (1), \"one\" can mean \"ball\". \nIn (2), one is interpreted as \"red ball.\" However, even if a speaker intends (2) in this way, it would be difficult to distinguish that interpretation from one in which \"one\" simply meant \"ball\". This is because when a speaker refers to a red ball, they are also referring to a ball since the set of red balls is a subset of balls in general. 18-month-olds, like adults, show that they believe 'one' refers to 'red ball' and not 'ball'. The evidence available to children is systematically ambiguous between a grammar in which \"one\" refers back to Nouns and one in which \"one\" refers back to noun phrases. Despite this ambiguity, children learn the more narrow interpretation, suggesting that some property other than the input is responsible for their interpretations.\n\nIn Wh-questions, the Wh-word at the beginning of the sentence (the filler) is related to a position later in the sentence (the gap). This relation can hold over an unbounded distance, as in (1). However, there are restrictions on the gap positions that a filler can be related to. These restrictions are called syntactic islands (2). Because questions with islands are ungrammatical, they are not included in the speech that children hear—but neither are grammatical Wh-questions that span multiple clauses. Because the speech children are exposed to is consistent with grammars which have island constraints and grammars which don't, something internal to the child must contribute this knowledge.\n\nBergelson & Idsardi (2009) presented adults with words drawn from an artificial language. The words contained 3 CV syllables. If the last vowel was long, then it bore stress. Otherwise, stress fell on the first syllable. This pattern is consistent with two grammars. In one grammar, a long vowel bears stress if it is the last segment in the word. This is a rule based on absolute finality. In the other grammar, a long vowel bears stress only if it is the last vowel in the word (i.e., even if it is not the last segment of the word). This is a rule based on relative finality. In natural languages stress rules make reference to relative finality but not to absolute finality. After being exposed to these words, participants were then tested to see whether they thought that a word with a long vowel in a closed syllable (CVVC) would bear stress. If it did, then that would be consistent with the relative-final grammar, but not with the absolute-final grammar. English-speaking adults (tested through computer software) were more likely to accept the words from the relative-final grammar than from the absolute-final grammar. Since the data they were exposed to was equally consistent with both grammars, and since neither rule is a rule of English, the source of this decision must have come from the participants, not from any aspect of their experience. In addition, eighth-month-old children (tested via the Headturn Preference Procedure) were found to have the same preference as adults. Given that this preference could not have come from their exposure to either the artificial language or to their native language, the researchers concluded that human language acquisition mechanisms are \"hardwired\" to lead infants towards certain generalizations, consistent with the argument for the poverty of the stimulus.\n\nHalle (1978) argues that the morphophonological rule governing the English plural produces forms that are consistent with two grammars. In one grammar, the plural is pronounced as [s] if it follows one of the sounds [p, t, k, f, 𝝷]; otherwise it is pronounced as [z]. In the other grammar, the plural is pronounced as [s] if it follows a voiceless consonant. These rules are exactly equal in their coverage of English since the set of consonants that triggers the [s] pronunciation is identical in the two cases. However, Halle also observes that English speakers consistently pluralize the German name \"Bach\" (pronounced \"/bax/\") as \"/baxs/\", despite not having any experience with the \"/x/\" sound, which is nonexistent in English. Since there is \"no indication\" that speakers could have acquired this knowledge, Halle argues that the tendency to build rules in terms of natural classes comes from a factor internal to the child and not from their experience.\n\nThe poverty of the stimulus also applies in the domain of word learning. When learning a new word, children are exposed to examples of the word's referent, but not to the full extent of the category. For example, in learning the word \"dog\", a child might see a German Shepherd, a Great Dane and a Poodle. How do they know to extend this category to include Dachshunds and Bulldogs? The situations in which the word is used cannot provide the relevant information. Thus, something internal to learners must shape the way that they generalize. This problem is closely related to Quine's gavagai problem.\n\nIn other cases, words refer to aspects of the world that cannot be observed directly. For example Lila Gleitman poses a POS argument with respect to verbs that label mental states. She observes that a learner cannot see inside another person's mind, and so an utterance of \"Kim thinks that it is raining\" is likely to occur in the same kinds of contexts as \"Kim wonders if it is raining\" or even \"Kim wants it to rain\". If no aspect of the context can determine whether a mental state verb refers to thinkings, wanting or wonderings, then some aspect of children's minds must direct their attention to other cues. Thus, our ability to learn these word meanings must be shaped by factors internal to the child and not simply from the conditions of their use.\n\nSome researchers argue that the poverty of the stimulus argument, which supports nativist theorizing, does not disprove the hypothesis that language is learned entirely from external sources. Some argue that nativist views reflect a failure to imagine how the input could support specific grammatical conclusions in the absence of innate structure. Other areas of criticism range from discussions about whether the poverty of the stimulus can be solved not through innate linguistic knowledge, but from other capacities like social cognition or statistical learning.\n\nThe empiricist views suggest that language can be learned with mental processes originally meant for other modes of cognition, and that there need not be a concept of innateness in order to account for the difference between the input a child receives versus the language they develop. Natural languages display statistical cues that children are able to learn from. Some argue that the ability to learn by statistical pattern matching can solve problems that nativists argue require innate knowledge.\n\nSome researchers also argue that the POS problem can be overcome through implicit negative evidence or indirect negative evidence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43089387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43089387", "title": "Psychology's Feminist Voices", "text": "Psychology's Feminist Voices\n\nPsychology’s Feminist Voices (PFV) is an online, multimedia digital archive containing the stories of women of psychology’s past and contemporary feminist psychologists who have shaped and continue to transform the discipline of psychology. It houses a wide range of materials, including original biographical profiles, oral history interview transcripts, video content, timelines, bibliographies, teaching resources, and an original 40-minute documentary on the emergence and current status of feminist psychology in the United States. The project is continually expanding and currently has a database containing the profiles of over 250 psychologists from around the world.\n\nPFV is also an online teaching resource, with sample syllabi for teaching history of psychology from a feminist perspective, teaching guides for incorporating PFV material into history and psychology of gender courses, assignments, handouts, and teaching videos.\n\nPFV is a free resource and all interview transcripts are downloadable as .pdf files; all video content is available at the site and at the psychsfeministvoices YouTube channel; all interview transcripts are copyrighted to Feminist Voices except where indicated.\n\nThe Psychology’s Feminist Voices project was founded by Alexandra Rutherford in 2004. It began as a collection of oral histories with contemporary feminist psychologists, many of whom established the field of feminist psychology in the United States and Canada in the early 1970s. It quickly expanded, however, to encompass a larger goal: the documentation of women throughout psychology’s history, as well as a large and diverse sample of feminist psychologists in order to create a comprehensive picture of the impact of gender, women’s participation, and feminism, on the development of psychology as a science and profession. The online resource, www.feministvoices.com, was launched in 2010 and now has a corresponding Facebook site, YouTube channel, and Twitter feed.\nThis project is based at York University, Toronto, Canada. It has received funding from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, and has been endorsed by the Society for the Psychology of Women, Division 35 of the American Psychological Association (APA), the Society for the History of Psychology, Division 26 of the APA, the Section on Women and Psychology of the Canadian Psychological Association, and the Association for Women in Psychology.\n\nThe Psychology’s Feminist Voices digital archive has two main sections: \nWomen Past (1848-1950) and Feminist Presence(1950-). The Women Past section contains profiles of women who received their doctoral degrees in psychology before 1950. The Feminist Presence section features profiles of and interviews with self-identified feminist psychologists who received their doctorates after 1950. Both sections contain the following subsections:\n\nProfiles: Each psychologist has a profile page containing their training, affiliations, biographies, media links, photographs, and a list of selected works. The Feminist Presence profiles also usually include transcripts and video clips of interviews conducted by the PFV team.\nTimeline: Provides a chronology of major events in feminist history and psychology, beginning with the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention up to recent breakthroughs such as the publication of the report on the trafficking of women and girls by The Society for the Psychology of Women Special Committee.\n\nResources: Includes bibliographies, teaching materials, websites, and archives with relevant collections. All of these resources are meant to serve as starting points for teaching and research on the history of women in psychology and science, as well as the history of feminism. An original teaching video series, \"Feminist Psychologists Talk About...\" is also featured. The first video in the series is on women’s mental health and feminist therapy.\n\nSearch Page: The content of the site is searchable by keyword, name, birth and death dates, training location, and affiliation. This page also includes a rotating banner of “Featured Psychologists.”\n\nVideo Resources: The Changing Face of Feminist Psychology is an original documentary that uses archival material and interviews to explore the context in which feminist psychology emerged and how it has shaped the field of psychology. Original interview clips from individual psychologists can also be found on PFV’s YouTube channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "53078054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53078054", "title": "RMN Newsletter", "text": "RMN Newsletter\n\nRMN Newsletter is a peer-reviewed and open access academic journal published on a bi-annual basis by the University of Helsinki’s Department of Folklore Studies. Published in both digital and print editions, \"RMN Newsletter\" covers topics relevant to folkloristics, linguistics, history, archaeology, and philology, especially in the areas of Germanic studies, Finno-Ugric studies, and Baltic studies. The publication places particular emphasis on what the journal refers to as \"retrospective methods\", a research method that compares material recorded in differing periods.\n\nSince its inception in December 2010, the journal has been edited by Frog, a University of Helsinki docent. \"RMN Newsletter\" originated as a development of the Retrospective Methods Network, a coalition of academics who launched the journal at a conference for the organization, \"New Focus on Retrospective Methods\" (September 13–14, 2010).\n\n"}
{"id": "1603046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603046", "title": "Residual (entertainment industry)", "text": "Residual (entertainment industry)\n\nResiduals are royalties that are paid to the actors, film or television directors, and others involved in making TV shows and movies in cases of reruns, syndication, DVD release, or online streaming release. Residuals are calculated and administered by industry trade unions like SAG-AFTRA, the Directors Guild of America, and the Writers Guild of America. The word is typically used in the plural form.\n\nTechnological advances gave rise to residual payments, and their evolution can be traced in terms of those technologies.\n\nResiduals were established in U.S. network radio. Live radio programs with nationwide audiences were generally performed either two or three times to account for different time zones between the east and west coasts of the United States. The performers were paid for each performance. After audio \"transcription disc\" technology became widely available in the late 1930s, it was initially used to make recordings to send to radio stations that were not connected to the live network. As sound quality improved, radio networks began using them for time-delaying west coast broadcasts, eventually eliminating the need for multiple performances. The performers were kept on standby and paid for a second performance in case there were technical problems. This established the precedent for residual payments from recorded performances.\n\nIn the early 1950s, a similar transition occurred in television. Initially, most television broadcasts were either live performances or broadcasts of older films originally produced for theaters. Kinescope recordings were made of live east coast performances so they could be broadcast several hours later on the west coast, which also made it possible to broadcast these shows later as many times as they wanted. In 1952, residual payments were extended to these television reruns, thanks in large part to Ronald Reagan, whose first term as president of the Screen Actors Guild (SAG) ran from 1947 to 1952. In 1953, the WGA negotiated residuals for up to five reruns for made-for-TV shows.\n\nThat said, film actors were still not paid residuals for reruns. As Americans increasingly watched TV at home instead of going out to the movies, movie attendance plummeted by over 65% between 1948 and 1959, studios were grappling with decreased revenues, and actors felt like they were being deprived of significant income that was owed to them. The studios, however, took a hardline stance on residuals for movie actors due to their shrinking revenue as well as the fact that if they paid residuals to actors, they would also have to pay directors and screenwriters as well.\n\nThis stalemate led SAG actors to re-elect Ronald Reagan as SAG President in fall of 1959. Reagan asked SAG for a strike authorization in February and the actors agreed on a work-stop date for March 7, 1960, Hollywood's first-ever industry-wide strike. Starting with Universal Pictures, studios ended up agreeing to film residuals, but only for movies made after 1960s. They would issue a one-time payout of $2.25 million for movies made between 1948 and 1960, and movies made before 1948 would not be eligible for any residuals. (Unrelated to residuals, Reagan also secured health insurance and pensions for SAG actors.) This upset older actors like Mickey Rooney, Glenn Ford and Bob Hope, who blamed Reagan and the SAG board for weak negotiating, but in April 1960 SAG voted to accept the offer and returned to work.\n\nIn 1988, WGA launched its longest strike, lasting 22 weeks, over a disagreement over residuals for TV shows broadcast in foreign countries. The new contract allowed writers two formulas for calculating foreign residuals: the existing formula ($4,400 maximum for a one-hour show) or the new formula (1.2% of the producer's foreign sales). On the other hand, domestic residuals were adjusted to take a sliding scale, which would incentivize producers to syndicate one-hour shows, whose revenue performance was poor, to independent TV stations.\n\nIn 2007, the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP), the industry bargaining group that deals with the trade unions, called for an end to the current residual payment system in response to the rise of online media. Instead, it proposed that residuals be pooled so the studios would recoup their costs paying the actors, directors, and writers based on a profit-based formula, which would solve the problem that residuals remain the same despite decreases in TV profits. Writers in the Writers Guild of America (WGA) decided to negotiate for higher residual payments. The AMPTP adamantly opposed extending residuals to online movie and TV show sales for at least three years, citing the need to \"adapt to the realities of the marketplace, the new demands from our audiences and new technologies\", while a WGA representative countered that they \"already had effective business models\".\n\nIn 2011, SAG-AFTRA, WGA, and DGA negotiations kept residuals for network primetime TV (considered \"among the most lucrative\" residuals) frozen at previous levels.\n\nResiduals are administered by the unions—SAG-AFTRA, the Directors Guild of America (DGA), and the Writers Guild of America (WGA)—for their members, who are paid between one and four months after the air date. According to SAG-AFTRA, it processes around 1.5 million residual checks a year. WGA receives between 100 and 5,000 residual checks a day. The DGA processes \"hundreds of thousands of checks\" a year, and in 2016 it processed $300 million in residuals for its members.\n\nResidual calculation is complex and depends on several variables, including guild membership, initial payment, time spent, type of production (e.g., network TV, DVD, ad-supported streaming, online purchases), and whether it involves a domestic or foreign market. Additionally, residuals change a lot: guilds negotiate new contracts with the AMPTP every three years, and residuals for primetime TV tend to increase every year because they are \"directly or indirectly keyed to salary minimums, which increase several percent per year\".\n\nIn acting, extras are generally not eligible, but stunt performers, puppeteers, singers, and actors with lines or scripted physical interactions with characters (\"supporting actors\" or \"day players\") are eligible. Principal performers generally get larger residuals. In fact, the more prominent the actor, the more generous the residual. Big stars like Tom Cruise, for example, would get a portion of DVD sales in addition to his \"regular\" residuals.\n\nAll \"credited\" writers are eligible for residuals, and the specific credit determines the amount of amount. For example, the \"written by\" credit yields a 100% residual allocation, \"screenplay/teleplay by\" yields a 75%, and \"adaptation by\" yields 10%.\n\nResidual payments can sometimes be very small if the role was small or the movie or show was not successful. For example, actor Jeff Cohen received a residual check for $0.67 after appearing in one episode of \"The Facts of Life\"; he took it to a former bar in Studio City called \"Maeve's Re$iduals\", which used to trade free drinks for any SAG-AFTRA residual checks for less than $1.\n\nBy contrast, Bob Gunton, who played Warden Norton in \"The Shawshank Redemption\", noted that the movie, one of the most-rerun films, generated \"close to six figures\" in residuals for him in 2004, ten years after the movie was released, and even as of 2014, that he continued to receive \"a very substantial income\".\n\nIn 2014, actor Lisa Kudrow of \"Friends\" was ordered to pay $1.6 million to her former manager, who argued that he was owed 5% of Kudrow's residuals earnings from work that he negotiated. Using figures that were publicly disclosed, one analyst estimated Kudrow's residuals to be at least $2.3 million, and likely much higher.\n\n"}
{"id": "25166191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25166191", "title": "Rule of law", "text": "Rule of law\n\nThe rule of law is \"The authority and influence of law in society, especially when viewed as a constraint on individual and institutional behavior; (hence) the principle whereby all members of a society (including those in government) are considered equally subject to publicly disclosed legal codes and processes\". The phrase \"the rule of law\" refers to a political situation, not to any specific legal rule. \n\nUse of the phrase can be traced back to 16th-century Britain, and in the following century the Scottish theologian Samuel Rutherford employed it in arguing against the divine right of kings. John Locke wrote that freedom in society means being subject only to laws made by a legislature that apply to everyone, with a person being otherwise free from both governmental and private restrictions upon liberty. \"The rule of law\" was further popularized in the 19th century by British jurist A. V. Dicey. However, the principle, if not the phrase itself, was recognized by ancient thinkers; for example, Aristotle wrote: \"It is more proper that law should govern than any one of the citizens\".\n\nThe rule of law implies that every person is subject to the law, including people who are lawmakers, law enforcement officials, and judges. In this sense, it stands in contrast to a monarchy or oligarchy where the rulers are held above the law. Lack of the rule of law can be found in both democracies and monarchies, for example, because of neglect or ignorance of the law, and the rule of law is more apt to decay if a government has insufficient corrective mechanisms for restoring it.\n\nAlthough credit for popularizing the expression \"the rule of law\" in modern times is usually given to A. V. Dicey, development of the legal concept can be traced through history to many ancient civilizations, including ancient Greece, China, Mesopotamia, India, and Rome.\n\nIn the West, the ancient Greeks initially regarded the best form of government as rule by the best men. Plato advocated a benevolent monarchy ruled by an idealized philosopher king, who was above the law. Plato nevertheless hoped that the best men would be good at respecting established laws, explaining that \"Where the law is subject to some other authority and has none of its own, the collapse of the state, in my view, is not far off; but if law is the master of the government and the government is its slave, then the situation is full of promise and men enjoy all the blessings that the gods shower on a state.\" More than Plato attempted to do, Aristotle flatly opposed letting the highest officials wield power beyond guarding and serving the laws. In other words, Aristotle advocated the rule of law:\n\nIt is more proper that law should govern than any one of the citizens: upon the same principle, if it is advantageous to place the supreme power in some particular persons, they should be appointed to be only guardians, and the servants of the laws.\n\nThe Roman statesman Cicero is often cited as saying, roughly: \"We are all servants of the laws in order to be free.\" During the Roman Republic, controversial magistrates might be put on trial when their terms of office expired. Under the Roman Empire, the sovereign was personally immune (\"legibus solutus\"), but those with grievances could sue the treasury.\n\nIn China, members of the school of legalism during the 3rd century BC argued for using law as a tool of governance, but they promoted \"rule \"by\" law\" as opposed to \"rule \"of\" law\", meaning that they placed the aristocrats and emperor above the law. In contrast, the Huang-Lao school of Daoism rejected legal positivism in favor of a natural law that even the ruler would be subject to.\n\nThere has recently been an effort to reevaluate the influence of the Bible on Western constitutional law. In the Old Testament, the book of Deuteronomy imposes certain restrictions on the king, regarding such matters as the numbers of wives he might take and of horses he might acquire (for his own use). According to Professor Bernard M. Levinson, \"This legislation was so utopian in its own time that it seems never to have been implemented...\" The Deuteronomic social vision may have influenced opponents of the divine right of kings, including Bishop John Ponet in sixteenth-century England.\n\nIn Islamic jurisprudence rule of law was formulated in the seventh century, so that no official could claim to be above the law, not even the caliph. However, this was not a reference to secular law, but to Islamic religious law in the form of Sharia law.\n\nAlfred the Great, Anglo-Saxon king in the 9th century, reformed the law of his kingdom and assembled a law code (the Doom Book) which he grounded on biblical commandments. He held that the same law had to be applied to all persons, whether rich or poor, friends or enemies. This was likely inspired by Leviticus 19:15: \"You shall do no iniquity in judgment. You shall not favor the wretched and you shall not defer to the rich. In righteousness you are to judge your fellow.\"\n\nIn 1215, Archbishop Stephen Langton gathered the Barons in England and forced King John and future sovereigns and magistrates back under the rule of law, preserving ancient liberties by Magna Carta in return for exacting taxes. This foundation for a constitution was carried into the United States Constitution.\n\nIn 1481, during the reign of Ferdinand II of Aragon, the \"Constitució de l'Observança\" was approved by the General Court of Catalonia, establishing the submission of royal power (included its officers) to the laws of the Principality of Catalonia.\n\nThe first known use of this English phrase occurred around AD 1500. Another early example of the phrase \"rule of law\" is found in a petition to James I of England in 1610, from the House of Commons:\nAmongst many other points of happiness and freedom which your majesty's subjects of this kingdom have enjoyed under your royal progenitors, kings and queens of this realm, there is none which they have accounted more dear and precious than this, to be guided and governed by the certain \"rule of the law\" which giveth both to the head and members that which of right belongeth to them, and not by any uncertain or arbitrary form of government...\n\nIn 1607, English Chief Justice Sir Edward Coke said in the \"Case of Prohibitions\" (according to his own report) \"that the law was the golden met-wand and measure to try the causes of the subjects; and which protected His Majesty in safety and peace: with which the King was greatly offended, and said, that then he should be under the law, which was treason to affirm, as he said; to which I said, that Bracton saith, \"quod Rex non debet esse sub homine, sed sub Deo et lege\" (That the King ought not to be under any man but under God and the law.).\"\n\nAmong the first modern authors to use the term and give the principle theoretical foundations was Samuel Rutherford in \"Lex, Rex\" (1644). The title, Latin for \"the law is king\", subverts the traditional formulation \"rex lex\" (\"the king is law\"). James Harrington wrote in \"Oceana\" (1656), drawing principally on Aristotle’s \"Politics\", that among forms of government an “Empire of Laws, and not of Men” was preferable to an “Empire of Men, and not of Laws”.\n\nJohn Locke also discussed this issue in his \"Second Treatise of Government\" (1690):\nThe natural liberty of man is to be free from any superior power on earth, and not to be under the will or legislative authority of man, but to have only the law of nature for his rule. The liberty of man, in society, is to be under no other legislative power, but that established, by consent, in the commonwealth; nor under the dominion of any will, or restraint of any law, but what that legislative shall enact, according to the trust put in it. Freedom then is not what Sir Robert Filmer tells us, Observations, A. 55. a liberty for every one to do what he lists, to live as he pleases, and not to be tied by any laws: but freedom of men under government is, to have a standing rule to live by, common to every one of that society, and made by the legislative power erected in it; a liberty to follow my own will in all things, where the rule prescribes not; and not to be subject to the inconstant, uncertain, unknown, arbitrary will of another man: as freedom of nature is, to be under no other restraint but the law of nature.\n\nThe principle was also discussed by Montesquieu in \"The Spirit of the Laws\" (1748). The phrase \"rule of law\" appears in Samuel Johnson's \"Dictionary\" (1755).\n\nIn 1776, the notion that no one is above the law was popular during the founding of the United States. For example, Thomas Paine wrote in his pamphlet \"Common Sense\" that \"in America, \"the law is king\". For as in absolute governments the King is law, so in free countries the law \"ought\" to be king; and there ought to be no other.\" In 1780, John Adams enshrined this principle in the Massachusetts Constitution by seeking to establish \"a government of laws and not of men.\"\n\nThe influence of Britain, France and the United States contributed to spreading the principle of the rule of law to other countries around the world.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" has defined \"rule of law\" this way:\n\nThe authority and influence of law in society, esp. when viewed as a constraint on individual and institutional behaviour; (hence) the principle whereby all members of a society (including those in government) are considered equally subject to publicly disclosed legal codes and processes.\n\nRule of law implies that every citizen is subject to the law. It stands in contrast to the idea that the ruler is above the law, for example by divine right.\n\nDespite wide use by politicians, judges and academics, the rule of law has been described as \"an exceedingly elusive notion\". Among modern legal theorists, one finds that at least two principal conceptions of the rule of law can be identified: a formalist or \"thin\" definition, and a substantive or \"thick\" definition; one occasionally encounters a third \"functional\" conception. Formalist definitions of the rule of law do not make a judgment about the \"justness\" of law itself, but define specific procedural attributes that a legal framework must have in order to be in compliance with the rule of law. Substantive conceptions of the rule of law go beyond this and include certain substantive rights that are said to be based on, or derived from, the rule of law.\n\nMost legal theorists believe that the rule of law has purely formal characteristics, meaning that the law must be publicly declared (prohibitions or exigencies), with prospective application (punishments or consequences tied to a given prohibition or exigency), and possess the characteristics of generality (usually meaning consistency and comprehensibility), equality (that is, applied equally throughout all society), and certainty (that is, certainty of application for a given situation), but there are no requirements with regard to the content of the law. Others, including a few legal theorists, believe that the rule of law necessarily entails protection of individual rights. Within legal theory, these two approaches to the rule of law are seen as the two basic alternatives, respectively labelled the formal and substantive approaches. Still, there are other views as well. Some believe that democracy is part of the rule of law.\n\nThe \"formal\" interpretation is more widespread than the \"substantive\" interpretation. Formalists hold that the law must be prospective, well-known, and have characteristics of generality, equality, and certainty. Other than that, the formal view contains no requirements as to the content of the law. This formal approach allows laws that protect democracy and individual rights, but recognizes the existence of \"rule of law\" in countries that do not necessarily have such laws protecting democracy or individual rights.\n\nThe substantive interpretation holds that the rule of law intrinsically protects some or all individual rights.\n\nThe functional interpretation of the term \"rule of law\", consistent with the traditional English meaning, contrasts the \"rule of law\" with the \"rule of man\". According to the functional view, a society in which government officers have a great deal of discretion has a low degree of \"rule of law\", whereas a society in which government officers have little discretion has a high degree of \"rule of law\". Upholding the rule of law can sometimes require the punishment of those who commit offenses that are justifiable under natural law but not statutory law. The rule of law is thus somewhat at odds with flexibility, even when flexibility may be preferable.\n\nThe ancient concept of rule \"of\" law can be distinguished from rule \"by\" law, according to political science professor Li Shuguang: \"The difference ... is that, under the rule of law, the law is preeminent and can serve as a check against the abuse of power. Under rule by law, the law is a mere tool for a government, that suppresses in a legalistic fashion.\"\n\nThe rule of law has been considered as one of the key dimensions that determine the quality and good governance of a country. Research, like the Worldwide Governance Indicators, defines the rule of law as: \"the extent to which agents have confidence and abide by the rules of society, and in particular the quality of contract enforcement, the police and the courts, as well as the likelihood of crime or violence.\" Based on this definition the Worldwide Governance Indicators project has developed aggregate measurements for the rule of law in more than 200 countries, as seen in the map at right.\n\nThe preamble of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms says \"the governments of European countries which are like-minded and have a common heritage of political traditions, ideals, freedom and the rule of law\".\n\nIn France and Germany the concepts of rule of law (\"Etat de droit\" and \"Rechtsstaat\" respectively) are analogous to the principles of constitutional supremacy and protection of fundamental rights from public authorities (see public law), particularly the legislature. France was one of the early pioneers of the ideas of the rule of law. The German interpretation is more \"rigid\" but similar to that of France and the United Kingdom.\n\nFinland's constitution explicitly requires rule of law by stipulating that \"the exercise of public powers shall be based on an Act. In all public activity, the law shall be strictly observed.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom the rule of law is a long-standing principle of the way the country is governed, dating from Magna Carta in 1215 and the Bill of Rights 1689. In the 19th century, A. V. Dicey, a constitutional scholar and lawyer, wrote of the twin pillars of the British constitution in his classic work \"Introduction to the Study of the Law of the Constitution\" (1885); these two pillars are the rule of law and parliamentary sovereignty.\n\nAll government officers of the United States, including the President, the Justices of the Supreme Court, state judges and legislators, and all members of Congress, pledge first and foremost to uphold the Constitution. These oaths affirm that the rule of law is superior to the rule of any human leader. At the same time, the federal government has considerable discretion: the legislative branch is free to decide what statutes it will write, as long as it stays within its enumerated powers and respects the constitutionally protected rights of individuals. Likewise, the judicial branch has a degree of judicial discretion, and the executive branch also has various discretionary powers including prosecutorial discretion.\n\nScholars continue to debate whether the U.S. Constitution adopted a particular interpretation of the \"rule of law\", and if so, which one. For example, John Harrison asserts that the word \"law\" in the Constitution is simply defined as that which is legally binding, rather than being \"defined by formal or substantive criteria\", and therefore judges do not have discretion to decide that laws fail to satisfy such unwritten and vague criteria. Law Professor Frederick Mark Gedicks disagrees, writing that Cicero, Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, and the framers of the U.S. Constitution believed that an unjust law was not really a law at all.\n\nSome modern scholars contend that the rule of law has been corroded during the past century by the instrumental view of law promoted by legal realists such as Oliver Wendell Holmes and Roscoe Pound. For example, Brian Tamanaha asserts: \"The rule of law is a centuries-old ideal, but the notion that law is a means to an end became entrenched only in the course of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.\"\n\nOthers argue that the rule of law has survived but was transformed to allow for the exercise of discretion by administrators. For much of American history, the dominant notion of the rule of law, in this setting, has been some version of A. V. Dicey's: \"no man is punishable or can be lawfully made to suffer in body or goods except for a distinct breach of law established in the ordinary legal manner before the ordinary Courts of the land.\" That is, individuals should be able to challenge an administrative order by bringing suit in a court of general jurisdiction. As the dockets of worker compensation commissions, public utility commissions and other agencies burgeoned, it soon became apparent that letting judges decide for themselves all the facts in a dispute (such as the extent of an injury in a worker's compensation case) would overwhelm the courts and destroy the advantages of specialization that led to the creation of administrative agencies in the first place. Even Charles Evans Hughes, a Chief Justice of the United States, believed \"you must have administration, and you must have administration by administrative officers.\" By 1941, a compromise had emerged. If administrators adopted procedures that more or less tracked \"the ordinary legal manner\" of the courts, further review of the facts by \"the ordinary Courts of the land\" was unnecessary. That is, if you had your \"day in commission\", the rule of law did not require a further \"day in court\". Thus Dicey's rule of law was recast into a purely procedural form.\n\nJames Wilson said during the Philadelphia Convention in 1787 that, \"Laws may be unjust, may be unwise, may be dangerous, may be destructive; and yet not be so unconstitutional as to justify the Judges in refusing to give them effect.\" George Mason agreed that judges \"could declare an unconstitutional law void. But with regard to every law, however unjust, oppressive or pernicious, which did not come plainly under this description, they would be under the necessity as judges to give it a free course.\" Chief Justice John Marshall (joined by Justice Joseph Story) took a similar position in 1827: \"When its existence as law is denied, that existence cannot be proved by showing what are the qualities of a law.\"\n\nEast Asian cultures are influenced by two schools of thought, Confucianism, which advocated good governance as rule by leaders who are benevolent and virtuous, and Legalism, which advocated strict adherence to law. The influence of one school of thought over the other has varied throughout the centuries. One study indicates that throughout East Asia, only South Korea, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong have societies that are robustly committed to a law-bound state. According to Awzar Thi, a member of the Asian Human Rights Commission, the rule of law in Thailand, Cambodia, and most of Asia is weak or nonexistent:\n\nApart from a number of states and territories, across the continent there is a huge gulf between the rule of law rhetoric and reality. In Thailand, the police force is an organized crime gang. In Cambodia, judges are proxies for the ruling political party ... That a judge may harbor political prejudice or apply the law unevenly are the smallest worries for an ordinary criminal defendant in Asia. More likely ones are: Will the police fabricate the evidence? Will the prosecutor bother to show up? Will the judge fall asleep? Will I be poisoned in prison? Will my case be completed within a decade?\n\nIn countries such as China and Vietnam, the transition to a market economy has been a major factor in a move toward the rule of law, because the rule of law is important to foreign investors and to economic development. It remains unclear whether the rule of law in countries like China and Vietnam will be limited to commercial matters or will spill into other areas as well, and if so whether that spillover will enhance prospects for related values such as democracy and human rights. The rule of law in China has been widely discussed and debated by both legal scholars and politicians in China.\n\nIn Thailand, a kingdom that has had a constitution since the initial attempt to overthrow the absolute monarchy system in 1932, the rule of law has been more of a principle than actual practice. Ancient prejudices and political bias have been present in the three branches of government with each of their foundings, and justice has been processed formally according to the law but in fact more closely aligned with royalist principles that are still advocated in the 21st century. In November 2013, Thailand faced still further threats to the rule of law when the executive branch rejected a supreme court decision over how to select senators.\n\nIn India, the longest constitutional text in the history of the world has governed that country since 1950. Although the Constitution of India may have been intended to provide details that would limit the opportunity for judicial discretion, the more text there is in a constitution the greater opportunity the judiciary may have to exercise judicial review. According to Indian journalist Harish Khare, \"The rule of law or rather the Constitution [is] in danger of being supplanted by the rule of judges.\"\n\nJapan had centuries of tradition prior to World War II, during which there were laws, but they did not provide a central organizing principle for society, and they did not constrain the powers of government (Boadi, 2001). As the 21st century began, the percentage of people who were lawyers and judges in Japan remained very low relative to western Europe and the United States, and legislation in Japan tended to be terse and general, leaving much discretion in the hands of bureaucrats.\n\nVarious organizations are involved in promoting the rule of law.\n\nThe Statute of the Council of Europe characterizes the rule of law as one of the core principles which the establishment of the organization based on. The paragraph 3 of the preamble of the Statute of the Council of Europe states: \"Reaffirming their devotion to the spiritual and moral values which are the common heritage of their peoples and the true source of individual freedom, political liberty and the rule of law, principles which form the basis of all genuine democracy.\" The Statute lays the compliance with the rule of law principles as a condition for the European states to be a full member of the organization.\n\nIn 1959, an event took place in New Delhi and speaking as the International Commission of Jurists, made a declaration as to the fundamental principle of the rule of law. The event consisted of over 185 judges, lawyers, and law professors from 53 countries. This later became known as the Declaration of Delhi. During the declaration they declared what the rule of law implied. They included certain rights and freedoms, an independent judiciary and social, economic and cultural conditions conducive to human dignity. The one aspect not included in The Declaration of Delhi, was for rule of law requiring legislative power to be subject to judicial review.\n\nThe Secretary-General of the United Nations defines the rule of law as:\n\na principle of governance in which all persons, institutions and entities, public and private, including the State itself, are accountable to laws that are publicly promulgated, equally enforced and independently adjudicated, and which are consistent with international human rights norms and standards. It requires, as well, measures to ensure adherence to the principles of supremacy of law, equality before the law, accountability to the law, fairness in the application of the law, separation of powers, participation in decision-making, legal certainty, avoidance of arbitrariness and procedural and legal transparency.\n\nThe General Assembly has considered rule of law as an agenda item since 1992, with renewed interest since 2006 and has adopted resolutions at its last three sessions. The Security Council has held a number of thematic debates on the rule of law, and adopted resolutions emphasizing the importance of these issues in the context of women, peace and security, children in armed conflict, and the protection of civilians in armed conflict. The Peacebuilding Commission has also regularly addressed rule of law issues with respect to countries on its agenda. The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action also requires the rule of law be included in human rights education.\n\nThe Council of the International Bar Association passed a resolution in 2009 endorsing a substantive or \"thick\" definition of the rule of law:\n\nAn independent, impartial judiciary; the presumption of innocence; the right to a fair and public trial without undue delay; a rational and proportionate approach to punishment; a strong and independent legal profession; strict protection of confidential communications between lawyer and client; equality of all before the law; these are all fundamental principles of the Rule of Law. Accordingly, arbitrary arrests; secret trials; indefinite detention without trial; cruel or degrading treatment or punishment; intimidation or corruption in the electoral process, are all unacceptable. The Rule of Law is the foundation of a civilised society. It establishes a transparent process accessible and equal to all. It ensures adherence to principles that both liberate and protect. The IBA calls upon all countries to respect these fundamental principles. It also calls upon its members to speak out in support of the Rule of Law within their respective communities.\n\nAs used by the World Justice Project, a non-profit organization committed to advancing the rule of law around the world, the rule of law refers to a rules-based system in which the following four universal principles are upheld:\n\nThe World Justice Project has developed an Index to measure the extent to which countries adhere to the rule of law in practice. The WJP Rule of Law Index is composed of 9 factors and 52 sub-factors, and covers a variety of dimensions of the rule of law—such as whether government officials are accountable under the law, and whether legal institutions protect fundamental rights and allow ordinary people access to justice.\n\nThe International Development Law Organization (IDLO) is an intergovernmental organization with a joint focus on the promotion of rule of law and development. It works to empower people and communities to claim their rights, and provides governments with the know-how to realize them. It supports emerging economies and middle-income countries to strengthen their legal capacity and rule of law framework for sustainable development and economic opportunity. It is the only intergovernmental organization with an exclusive mandate to promote the rule of law and has experience working in more than 170 countries around the world.\n\nThe International Development Law Organization has a holistic definition of the rule of law:\n\nMore than a matter of due process, the rule of law is an enabler of justice and development. The three notions are interdependent; when realized, they are mutually reinforcing. For IDLO, as much as a question of laws and procedure, the rule of law is a culture and daily practice. It is inseparable from equality, from access to justice and education, from access to health and the protection of the most vulnerable. It is crucial for the viability of communities and nations, and for the environment that sustains them.\n\nIDLO is headquartered in Rome and has a branch office in The Hague and has Permanent Observer Status at the United Nations General Assembly in New York City.\n\nThe International Network to Promote the Rule of Law (INPROL) is a network of over 3,000 law practitioners from 120 countries and 300 organizations working on rule of law issues in post-conflict and developing countries from a policy, practice and research perspective. INPROL is based at the US Institute of Peace (USIP) in partnership with the US Department of State Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Strategic Police Matters Unit, the Center of Excellence for Police Stability Unit, and William and Marry School of Law in the United States. Its affiliate organizations include the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Folke Bernadotte Academy, International Bar Association, International Association of Chiefs of Police, International Association of Women Police, International Corrections and Prisons Association, International Association for Court Administration, International Security Sector Advisory Team at the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces, Worldwide Association of Women Forensic Experts (WAWFE), and International Institute for Law and Human Rights.\n\nINPROL provides an online forum for the exchange of information about best practices. Members may post questions, and expect a response from their fellow rule of law practitioners worldwide on their experiences in addressing rule of law issues.\n\nOne important aspect of the rule-of-law initiatives is the study and analysis of the rule of law’s impact on economic development. The rule-of-law movement cannot be fully successful in transitional and developing countries without an answer to the question: does the rule of law matter for economic development or not? Constitutional economics is the study of the compatibility of economic and financial decisions within existing constitutional law frameworks, and such a framework includes government spending on the judiciary, which, in many transitional and developing countries, is completely controlled by the executive. It is useful to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: corruption by the executive branch, in contrast to corruption by private actors.\n\nThe standards of constitutional economics can be used during annual budget process, and if that budget planning is transparent then the rule of law may benefit. The availability of an effective court system, to be used by the civil society in situations of unfair government spending and executive impoundment of previously authorized appropriations, is a key element for the success of the rule-of-law endeavor.\n\nThe Rule of Law is especially important as an influence on the economic development in developing and transitional countries. To date, the term \"rule of law\" has been used primarily in the English-speaking countries, and it is not yet fully clarified even with regard to such well-established democracies as, for instance, Sweden, Denmark, France, Germany, or Japan. A common language between lawyers of common law and civil law countries as well as between legal communities of developed and developing countries is critically important for research of links between the rule of law and real economy.\n\nThe \"rule of law\" primarily connotes \"protection of property rights\". The economist F. A. Hayek analyzed how the rule of law might be beneficial to the free market. Hayek proposed that under the rule of law, individuals would be able to make wise investments and future plans with some confidence in a successful return on investment when he stated: \"under the Rule of Law the government is prevented from stultifying individual efforts by \"ad hoc\" action. Within the known rules of the game the individual is free to pursue his personal ends and desires, certain that the powers of government will not be used deliberately to frustrate his efforts.\"\n\nStudies have shown that weak rule of law (for example, discretionary regulatory enforcement) discourages investment. Economists have found, for example, that a rise in discretionary regulatory enforcement caused US firms to abandon international investments.\n\nThe Treaty on the Protection of Artistic and Scientific Institutions and Historic Monuments or Roerich Pact is an inter-American treaty. The most important idea of the Roerich Pact is the legal recognition that the defense of cultural objects is more important than the use or destruction of that culture for military purposes, and the protection of culture always has precedence over any military necessity.\nThe Roerich Pact signed on April 15, 1935 by the representatives of 21 American states in the Oval Office of the White House (Washington, DC). It was the first international treaty signed in the Oval Office.\nThe Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict is the first international treaty that focuses on the protection of cultural property in armed conflict. It was signed at The Hague, Netherlands on 14 May 1954 and entered into force on 7 August 1956. As of June 2017, it has been ratified by 128 states.\n\nThe rule of law can be hampered when there is a disconnect between legal and popular consensus. An example is intellectual property. Under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organization, nominally strong copyright laws have been implemented throughout most of the world; but because the attitude of much of the population does not conform to these laws, a rebellion against ownership rights has manifested in rampant piracy, including an increase in peer-to-peer file sharing. Similarly, in Russia, tax evasion is common and a person who admits he does not pay taxes is not judged or criticized by his colleagues and friends, because the tax system is viewed as unreasonable. Bribery likewise has different normative implications across cultures.\n\nThe Rule of Law has been criticised by several scholars, authors, philosophers and activists as unrealistic, hypocritical or dangerous.\n\nAuthor Peter Gelderloos argues that attempting to create a specialised class of judicial authority that is separate from the community will inevitably lead to corruption. He points out that nonviolent drug-related offences receive far more police and media attention than workplace injuries or pollution, which kill far more people each year. He argues that restorative justice is a far more effective and humane alternative to prisons, courts and the police.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18836793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18836793", "title": "Sentence function", "text": "Sentence function\n\nIn linguistics, sentence function refers to a speaker's purpose in uttering a specific sentence, phrase, or clause. Whether a listener is present or not is sometimes irrelevant. It answers the question: \"Why has this been said?\" The four basic sentence functions in the world's languages include the \"declarative\", \"interrogative\", \"exclamative\", and the \"imperative\". These correspond to a \"statement\", \"question\", \"exclamation\", and \"command\" respectively. Typically, a sentence goes from one function to the next through a combination of changes in word order, intonation, the addition of certain auxiliaries or particles, or other times by providing a special verbal form. The four main categories can be further specified as being either \"communicative\" or \"informative\".\n\nWhile communication is traditionally defined as the transfer of information, the two terms, under present context, are differentiated as follows below:\n\nThese types of sentences are more intended for the speaker's sake than for any potential listener. They are meant more for the speaker's immediate wants and needs. These sentences tend to be less intentional (out of frustration for example), in general more literal, more primitive, and are usually about the here and now. Because of these features, it is generally speculated that this is pretty much the basis or limitation of any form of animal communication. (Speculated because scientists will never truly be able to understand non-human forms of communication like we do our own; although studies with \"talking\" primates have clued us in to a certain degree.)\n\nAn imperative sentence gives anything from a command or order, to a request, direction, or instruction. Imperative sentences are more intentional than exclamatory sentences and \"do\" require an audience; as their aim is to get the person(s) being addressed either to do or to not do something. And although this function usually deals with the immediate temporal vicinity, its scope can be extended, i.e. you can order somebody to \"move out as soon as you find yourself a job\". The negative imperative can also be called the \"prohibitive\" and the inclusive plural imperative, the \"hortative\". It is debatable whether the imperative is only truly possible in the second person. The vocative case of nouns can be said to indicate the imperative as well since it does not seek information, but rather a reaction from the one being addressed. An imperative can end in either a period or an exclamation point depending on delivery.\n\n\nInformative sentences are more for the mutual benefit of both the listener \"and\" the speaker, and, in fact, require more of an interaction between both parties involved. They are more intentional or premeditated, less essential, more cooperative, and they aim to either provide or retrieve information, making them quintessential abstractions. But perhaps the most differentiating quality that distinguishes informative sentences from the communicative is that the former more naturally and freely make use of displacement. Displacement refers to information lost in time and space which allows us to communicate ideas relating to the past or future (not just the now), and that have taken or can take place at a separate location (from here). To an extent, this is one of the biggest differences between human communication and that of other animals.\n\nThe declarative sentence is the most common kind of sentence in language, in most situations, and in a way can be considered the default function of a sentence. What this means essentially is that when a language modifies a sentence in order to form a question or give a command, the base form will always be the declarative. In its most basic sense, a declarative states an idea (either objectively or subjectively on the part of the speaker; and may be either true or false) for the sheer purpose of transferring intel. In writing, a statement will end with a period.\n\n\nAn interrogative sentence asks a question and hence ends with a question mark. In speech, it almost universally ends in a rising inflection. Its effort is to try to gather information that is presently unknown to the interrogator, or to seek validation for a preconceived notion held. Beyond seeking confirmation or contradiction, sometimes it is approval or permission that is sought as well, among other reasons one could have for posing a question. The one exception in which it isn't information that is needed, is when the question happens to be rhetorical (see allofunctional implicature section below). While an imperative is a call for action, an interrogative is a call for information.\n\n\nA declarative statement should not be deemed synonymous with an affirmative one. This is because although a declarative statement can state facts (given that the speaker is not consciously lying), it can also express something which is not true. The information he or she is providing, regardless of whether it be true or not in \"reality\", is in fact true or false to that speaker. Therefore, a declarative can be either in the affirmative or in the negative, and we can say that, \"Joanna is late\" and \"Joanna is not late\", both technically qualify as declarative sentences. \"Declarative\" refers to a sentence's function or purpose, while \"affirmative\" and \"negative\" deal with a sentence's veracity, or grammatical polarity, which is why the different terms can overlap simultaneously.\n\nThough not as erroneous as the above misnomer, there is a clouding that can occur between the slight distinction of the affirmative, and the positive. Although it semantically speaking comes natural that \"positive\" is the opposite of \"negative\", and therefore should be completely synonymous with \"affirmative\", grammatically speaking, once again they tend to be separate entities; depending on specificity. \"Positive\" in linguistic terms refers to the degree of the quality of an adjective or adverb, while \"affirmative\" refers to the perceived validity of the \"entire\" sentence.\n\nThus, all three terms being separate entities, an adjective or adverb can be in the positive degree but expressed in the negative, so that the sentence, \"This hummer does not seem to be eco-friendly\", has all negative, positive, and declarative properties.\n\nIn fact, an exclamatory, imperative, as well as a question can be in the negative form: \"I can't do this!\", \"Don't touch me\", \"Don't you want to?\"\n\nThere are many instances in which a sentence can be grammatically shaped as one function, yet in actual execution, may serve a completely different purpose than suggested by the way it was constructed; hence, \"allofunctional\", to mean 'serving a different purpose than originally intended'. Or in other words, it is very subtly yet unequivocally implied by process of pragmatics that its function \"must\" be changed to another in order for the sentence to make sense in the present context of conversation.\n\nA classic example would be the \"question\": \"Could you pass the salt?\"\n\nIn the above sentence, although it is grammatically structured as a question, it can quite safely be inferred that the speaker is not inquiring as to whether the person they are addressing is physically capable of passing the salt at the dinnertable or not. What the speaker really wants is to get the salt. It is a request, or call for action as opposed to information, thus making the sentence allofunctional (note that adding a word like 'please' at the end would tend to make this point clearer, and when posed as a question, this request is perceived as being more polite than if it were simply in the natural imperative). Therefore, what at first may come off as an interrogative sentence upon initial delivery, the listener must almost immediately reinterpret as an imperative and respond accordingly.\n\nOther examples include;\n\n\nThe list goes on, and as a matter of fact, all 12 combinations between each of the four functions and their three other counterparts should be theoretically possible.\n\nAnother important point to note is that the allofunctionality of a sentence is completely language specific as to how it differentiates function. To exemplify this, we can look at English and generalize that imperative sentences, when affirmative, tend to begin with the verb, while declarative sentences that are prosaic will almost always start with the subject (this is because in the imperative, the subject is implied, or obviously unmistakable, since it is the subject itself which is being spoken to). All that being taken into account, we can more clearly see why a statement such as, \"You are not going to that bar. (I forbid it)\", would qualify as allofunctional.\n\nJ. L. Austin\ndiscussed sentences that have \"perlocutionary force\": uttering them (at least\nin the correct context) directly causes something to be or to occur.\nFor example, \"I promise\", \"I warn\", \"I forgive\" or \"I resign\". Such utterances\ndo not fit readily into any of the traditional sentence functions described above.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35885810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35885810", "title": "Somatic theory", "text": "Somatic theory\n\nSomatic theory is a theory of human social behavior based loosely on the somatic marker hypothesis of António Damásio, which proposes a mechanism by which emotional processes can guide (or bias) behavior, particularly decision-making, as well as the attachment theory of John Bowlby and the self psychology of Heinz Kohut, especially as consolidated by Allan Schore. \n\nIt draws on various philosophical models from \"On the Genealogy of Morals\" of Friedrich Nietzsche through Martin Heidegger on \"das Man\", Maurice Merleau-Ponty on the lived body, and Ludwig Wittgenstein on social practices to Michel Foucault on discipline, as well as theories of performativity emerging out of the speech act theory of J. L. Austin, especially as developed by Judith Butler and Shoshana Felman; some somatic theorists have also tied somaticity to performance in the schools of actor training developed by Konstantin Stanislavski and Bertolt Brecht.\n\nBarbara Sellers-Young applies Damasio’s somatic-marker hypothesis to critical thinking as an embodied performance, and provides a review of the theoretical literature in performance studies that supports something like Damasio’s approach:\n\n\nEdward Slingerland applies Damasio's somatic-marker hypothesis to the cognitive linguistics of Gilles Fauconnier and Mark Turner and George Lakoff and Mark Johnson, especially Fauconnier and Turner's theory of conceptual blending and Lakoff and Johnson's embodied mind theory of metaphor. His goal in importing somatic theory into cognitive linguistics is to show that\n\nDouglas Robinson first began developing a somatic theory of language for a keynote presentation at the 9th American Imagery Conference in Los Angeles, October, 1985, based on Ahkter Ahsen's theory of somatic response to images as the basis for therapeutic transformations; in contradistinction to Ahsen's model, which rejected Freud's \"talking cure\" on the grounds that words do not awaken somatic responses, Robinson argued that there is a very powerful somatics of language. He later incorporated this notion into \"The Translator's Turn\" (1991), drawing on the (passing) somatic theories of William James, Ludwig Wittgenstein, and Kenneth Burke in order to argue that somatic response may be \"idiosomatic\" (somatically idiosyncratic) but typically is \"ideosomatic\" (somatically ideological, or shaped and guided by society), and that the ideosomatics of language explains how language remains stable enough for communication to be possible. This work preceded the Damasio group's first scientific publication on the somatic-marker hypothesis in 1991, and Robinson did not begin to incorporate Damasio's somatic-marker hypothesis into his somatic theory until later in the 1990s.\n\nIn \"Translation and Taboo\" (1996) Robinson drew on the protosomatic theories of Sigmund Freud, Jacques Lacan, and Gregory Bateson to explore the ways in which the ideosomatics of taboo structure (and partly sanction and conceal) the translation of sacred texts. His first book to draw on Damasio's somatic-marker hypothesis is \"Performative Linguistics\" (2003); there he draws on J. L. Austin's theory of speech acts, Jacques Derrida's theory of iterability, and Mikhail Bakhtin's theory of dialogism to argue that performativity as an activity of the speaking body is grounded in somaticity. He also draws on Daniel Simeoni's application of Pierre Bourdieu's theory of \"habitus\" in order to argue that his somatics of translation as developed in \"The Translator's Turn\" actually explains translation norms more fully than Gideon Toury in \"Descriptive Translation Studies and beyond\" (1995).\n\nIn 2005 Robinson began writing a series of books exploring somatic theory in different communicative contexts: modernist/formalist theories of estrangement (Robinson 2008), translation as ideological pressure (Robinson 2011), first-year writing (Robinson 2012), and the refugee experience, (de)colonization, and the intergenerational transmission of trauma (Robinson 2013).\n\nIn Robinson's articulation, somatic theory has four main planks:\n\n\nIn addition, he has added concepts along the way: the proprioception of the body politic as a homeostatic balancing between too much familiarity and too much strangeness (Robinson 2008); tensions between loconormativity and xenonormativity, the exosomatization of places, objects, and skin color, and paleosomaticity (Robinson 2013); ecosis and icosis (unpublished work).\n\n"}
{"id": "15786403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15786403", "title": "Sonning Prize", "text": "Sonning Prize\n\nThe Sonning Prize () is a Danish culture prize awarded biennially for outstanding contributions to European culture. It is named after the Danish editor and author Carl Johan Sonning (1879–1937), who established the prize by his will. The prize was first awarded in 1950, although its second winner was in 1959 after an eight-year hiatus. It was then awarded every year from 1959 to 1971, and then every second year from 1971 to 1991, and again from 1994 to present.\n\nPrize winners are chosen by a committee chaired by the rector of the University of Copenhagen which decides on laureates from a selection of candidates proposed by European universities. The prize amounts to DKK 1 million (~€135,000) and the award ceremony is always held on or around 19 April (Sonning's birthday) in Copenhagen.\n\n\nSonning Prize at the University of Copenhagen\n"}
{"id": "47882667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47882667", "title": "Terry Brooks bibliography", "text": "Terry Brooks bibliography\n\nThis is complete list of works by American fantasy author Terry Brooks.\n\n\n\n\nThe \"Word & Void\" series precedes the action in \"Genesis of Shannara\" trilogy and serves as the very start of the Shannara saga.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese books take place 100 years after the events in the \"High Druid of Shannara\" trilogy.\n\nSet 100 years after the events in \"The Dark Legacy of Shannara\" trilogy. The three novels are loosely connected, stand-alone novels.\n\nA four book series that will be the chronological ending of the entire Shannara series.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13477013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13477013", "title": "The Dinosaur and the Missing Link: A Prehistoric Tragedy", "text": "The Dinosaur and the Missing Link: A Prehistoric Tragedy\n\nThe Dinosaur and the Missing Link: A Prehistoric Tragedy is a 1915 American comedy silent film animated by Willis O'Brien. The film was distributed by Thomas Edison's film company \"Conquest Pictures\" in 1917.\n\nThe film is also known as The Dinosaur and the Baboon (American reissue title).\n\nIt starts with a caveman going to give some flowers to a cavegirl. He fails when he hits a tree. However, he keeps going. However, the \"Self Appointed Hero\" of the story steals the girl's heart. Meanwhile, an evil gorilla-like ape called \"Wild Willie\" the Missing Link is watching them. When the Missing Link goes to the lake to get some water, where the dinosaur is, the dinosaur kills the Missing Link and goes away. Then the \"Hero\" finds the Missing Link and takes the credit for killing Wild Willie.\n\n"}
{"id": "25820197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25820197", "title": "The Nick Adams Stories", "text": "The Nick Adams Stories\n\nThe Nick Adams Stories is a volume of short stories written by Ernest Hemingway published in 1972, a decade after the author's death. In the volume, all the stories featuring Nick Adams, published in various collections during Hemingway's lifetime, are compiled in a single collection. \"The Nick Adams Stories\" includes 24 stories and sketches, eight of which were previously unpublished. Some of Hemingway's earliest work, such as \"Indian Camp,\" as well as some of his best known stories, such as \"Big Two-Hearted River,\" are represented.\n\nThis volume is divided into five sections:\n\n\n\n\nLike his other posthumous work, \"The Nick Adams Stories\" may have been reworked and edited in a manner he never intended. One reviewer for \"The New York Times\" had this to say about one of the stories \"Three Shots\", a section Hemingway originally cut from \"Indian Camp\" – one of his earliest stories first published in 1925 volume \"In Our Time\":\n\nAlone, \"Three Shots\" stands as a vignette of a boy's fear, accorded sympathy by his father and impatience by his uncle. As part of the stark and spare \"Indian Camp,\" however, it was clearly excess baggage and, knowing that it was cut out, one can only read it with admiration for the nascent and ruthlessly true artistic impulse that caused its excision.\n\nContrary to the above are those who welcome publication of the new Nick Adams material which fills in chronological gaps of the autobiographical character's experience, and thus shows much of Hemingway's own life that remained unpublished.\n\n"}
{"id": "4583836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4583836", "title": "Tin-glazing", "text": "Tin-glazing\n\nTin-glazing is the process of giving ceramic items a tin-based glaze that is white, glossy and opaque, which is normally applied to red or buff earthenware. The opacity and whiteness of tin glaze encourage its frequent decoration with overglaze colour. Majolica, delftware and faience are among the terms used for common types of tin-glazed pottery. An alternative is lead-glazing, where the basic glaze is transparent; some types of pottery use both. \n\nTin oxide is valued in glazes as both an opacifier and as a white colorant. Tin oxide has long been used to produce a white, opaque and glossy glaze. As well as an opacifying agent, tin oxide also finds use as a colour stabiliser in some pigments and glazes. Minor quantities are also used in the conducting phases in some electrical porcelain glazes.\n\nThe earliest tin-glazed pottery appears to have been made in Abbasid Iraq (750-1258 AD)/Mesopotamia in the 8th century, fragments having been excavated during the First World War from the palace of Samarra about fifty miles north of Baghdad. From Mesopotamia, tin glazes spread to Islamic Egypt (868–905 AD) during the 10th century, and then to Andalusian Spain (711-1492 AD), leading to the maximum development of Islamic lusterware. \n\nThe history of tin glazes in the Islamic world is disputed. One possible reason for the earlier production of tin-glazed wares could be attributed to the trade between the Abbasid Empire and ancient China from the 8th to 9th century onwards, resulting in imitation of white Chinese stoneware by local Islamic potters. Another might be local glaze-making rather than foreign influence, supported by the similarility between the chemical and microstructural features of pre-Islamic white opaque glazes and that on the first tin-opacified wares\nFrom the Middle East, tin-glaze spread through the Islamic world to Spain. In the 13th century, tin glazes reached Italy, where the earliest recorded reference to their use is in the 1330s, resulting in the emergence of Italian Maiolica. Amongst others, Luca della Robbia, born in Florence about 1400, used tin oxide as an opacifier in glazes. Potters began to draw polychrome paintings on the white opaque surface with metallic oxides such as cobalt oxide and to produce lustreware. The off-white fired body of Delftware and English Majolica was made to appear white, and hence mimic the appearance of Chinese porcelain, by the application of a glaze opacified and coloured white by the addition of tin oxide.\n\nTin oxide has been widely used as the opacifier in sanitaryware glazes. In this application, additions of up to 6% are reported to be in then-current use. The cost of tin oxide rose considerably during the 1914-1918 war, and resulted in a search for cheaper alternatives. The first successful replacement was zirconia and later zircon. Whilst zirconium compounds are not as effective their low price led to a gradual increase in popularity with an associated reduction in use of tin oxide. Today, tin oxide usage in glazes finds limited use in conjunction with zircon compounds, although it is generally restricted to specialist low temperature applications and use by studio potters. The whiteness resulting from the use of zirconia has been described as more \"clinical\" than that from tin oxide, and is consequently preferred in some applications. The Koninklijke Tichelaar Makkum factory, or Royal Tichelaar Makkum, based in Makkum, Friesland continue the production Delftware using tin-glazed earthenware.\n\nFor glaze use only one tin compound, tin (IV) oxide Tin dioxide (SnO), and also called stannic acid, is commercially exploited. Opacity is produced in glazes by the addition of some substance to scatter and reflect some of the incident light. \n\nThe opacity of glaze could be determined by the particles which spread through the glaze, therefore the light is absorbed by the particles, being scattered back before reaching the ceramic body, leading to the opaque glaze. As a result, the concentration of the absorbing or scattering particles in the glaze could determine the degree of opacification. Generally speaking, the more different the refractive index between the particles and the glaze matrix, the larger the opacity. Similarly, the closer the particle size to the light wavelength (100-1000 nm for visible light) and the more irregular the surface, the larger the degree of opacification.\n\nTin oxide remains in suspension in vitreous matrix of the fired glazes, and, with its high refractive index being sufficiently different from the matrix, light is scattered, and hence increases the opacity of the glaze. The degree of dissolution increases with the firing temperature, and hence the extent of opacity diminishes. Although dependent on the other constituents the solubility of tin oxide in glaze melts is generally low. Its solubility is increased by NaO, KO and BO, and reduced by CaO, BaO, ZnO, AlO, and to a limited extent PbO.\n\nSome research on medieval tin glaze has shown that the particle size of tin oxide which appears as cassiterite is around several hundred nanometer, which corresponds to the range of wavelength of visible light. In some cases, the tin oxide is presented not only as small crystals but also as aggregates of particles. These factors – the high refractive index, the low solubility in glazes and the particle size make tin oxide an excellent opacifier. \n\nIn the beginning of the use of tin oxide, it is mainly viewed as a slip layer between the glaze and ceramic body. This could be seen from the SEM photomicrographs of some earlier Islamic glazed ceramics, of which the particles of tin oxide are concentrated at the interface, together with the existence of wollastonite, diopside and air bubble as other opacifiers. The microanalysis of later tin glazes reveals the distribution of tin oxide through the glazes rather than just at the interface, which indicates that tin oxide is really acting as an opacifier instead of only a surface coating layer.\n\nLead is usually brought into the glazes with tin oxide. The reaction between lead and tin oxide results in the recrystallisation of tin oxide, and thus enhances the degree of opacification in tin-opacified glazes than in tin-opacified glass. A high PbO/SnO ratio is often found in ancient glazes. During the firing process, lead oxide reacts with quartz at approximately 550℃ to form PbSiO, which then reacts with tin oxide to produce lead-tin oxide (PbSnO) at a temperature higher than 600℃. After the formation of lead-tin oxide, the melting of PbSiO, PbO and PbSnO occurs at the temperature in the range of 700℃ to 750℃, resulting in the dissolution of PbSnO to SnO. The degree of the crystallisation of SnO increases with the increasing of temperature. During either heating or cooling, the recrystallisation is taken place until the supply of tin is exhausted. In the second heating, lead in the form of lead oxide no longer reacts with tin oxide to form lead silicate, thus the recrystallised cassiterite (SnO2) remain undissolved and precipitate in the glazes. The nucleation and growth rates of the precipitation depend upon temperature and time. The particle size of the cassiterite developed is also dependent on the temperature, and smaller than that used in the very beginning. It is the smaller particle size of the recrystallised SnO in glazes that increases the opacity in tin-opacified glazes. Besides the increasing the opacity, the high lead oxide to tin oxide ratio also reduces the melting point of glazes, lead to a lower firing temperature during production.\n\nThe earliest Middle Eastern tin glazes used calcium, lead and sodium compounds as fluxes in combination with the silica in silica. An Islamic opaque white glaze has been analysed, and is quoted below as a Seger formula: \n\nIn this recipe, the addition of alkali helps to increase the hardness of the surface and clarify the colour of the glaze as well. With the development of tin glazes, the significant amount of tin oxide indicates its deliberate addition as an opacifier. A recipe involving the use of three ingredients was given in Abu’l-Qasim’s treatise from Persia in the 14th century: a glass-frit of quartz and potash, a lead-tin calx and a calcination of limestone and quartz. Afterwards, with the spread of tin glazes, lead gradually became the principal background in tin glazes, though a small proportion of alkali was still introduced in order to increase the fusibility. No specific recipes alluding to tin glazes in Spain have been found in ancient archives. However, recent research has shown that, at least since the 10th century AD, most Islamic white glazes in Spain were lead-silica glazes with tin oxide as an opacifier. That is, no alkaline glazes or lead-alkaline glazes have been found. Piccolpasso recorded several glazes used in Italy in the 1550s, all variations of lead, tin, lime, soda and potash glazes. It is believed early Spanish glazes were similar.\n\nA Seger analysis of a tin glaze from the early 20th century is:\n\nA more recent recipe is:\nAnd another is:\n\nIn combination with chromium compounds addition of 0.5 - 1.5% tin oxide to a glaze result in a pink colour, with such glazes being known as Chrome-tin pinks. In conjunction with small additions of zinc oxide and titanium oxide, additions of tin oxide up to 18% to lead glazes can produce a satin or vellum surface finish. The firing temperatures of such glazes are low, in the region of 950 – 1000 ℃ because of the variable degrees of solution of the individual oxides. The amount of tin oxide used for coloured glazes depends upon the opacifying property of the chosen chromophore and the intensity of the colour desired; if a deep colour is required less opacifier will be needed than for pastel shades.\n\nThough the recipe of tin glazes may differ in different sites and periods, the process of the production of tin glazes is similar. Generally speaking, the first step of the production of tin glazes is to mix tin and lead in order to form oxides, which was then added to a glaze matrix (alkali-silicate glaze, for example) and heated. After the mixture cooled, the tin oxide crystallises as what has been mentioned above, therefore generates the so-called white tin-opacified glazes. Besides, the body of tin-opacified wares is generally calcareous clays containing 15-25% CaO, of which the thermal expansion coefficient is close to that of tin glazes, thus avoid crazing during the firing process. On the other hand, the calcareous clay fired in an oxidising atmosphere results in a buff colour, thus lower the concentration of tin oxide used \n\nThe white opaque surface makes tin glaze a good base for painted decoration. The decoration is applied as metallic oxides, most commonly cobalt oxide for blue, copper oxide for green, iron oxide for brown, manganese dioxide for purple-brown and antimony for yellow. Late Italian maiolica blended oxides to produce detailed and realistic polychrome paintings, called \"istoriato\". To these oxides modern potters are able to add powdered ceramic colours made from combinations of oxide, sometimes fritted. In the sixteenth century, the use of subtle and blended colours which were not strong enough to penetrate the opaque glaze made the delicate control of ton-value possible, and the painting therefore had to be done on the glaze surface, which then becomes a common manner of painting on tin-glazed wares.\n\nThe pottery vessels are biscuit fired, usually between 900 ℃ and 1000 ℃. The fired vessel is dipped in a liquid glaze suspension which sticks to it, leaving a smooth and absorbent surface when dry. On this surface colours are applied by brush, the colours made from powered oxides mixed with water to a consistency of water-colour paint, sometimes with the addition of a binding agent such as gum arabic. The unfired glaze absorbs the pigment like fresco, making errors difficult to correct but preserving the brilliant colors of the oxides when fired. The glazed and decorated vessels are returned to the kiln for a second firing, usually between 1000 and 1120 ℃ (the higher temperatures used by modern potters). Lustered wares have a third firing at a lower temperature, necessitating a delicate control of the amount of oxygen in the kiln atmosphere and therefore a flame-burning kiln.\n\nTraditional kilns were wood firing, which required the pots to be protected in the glaze and luster firings by saggars or to be fired in a muffle kiln. Except for those making luster ware, modern tin-glaze potters use electric kilns.\n\nThe recrystallisation of tin oxide during the firing provides evidence of the slightly different methods of different production sites, as the crystal size, the distribution and the concentration may be influenced. For instance, the analysis of the 14th century Islamic tin glazes from eastern Spain indicates that these samples may be produced by non-fritting methods, as the heterogeneous distribution of tin oxides may be the remains of original grains of tin oxides. \n\nThe interaction between glaze and body also give clues to different handling and firing processes. As mentioned above, tin glaze suspension is applied to bisque or biscuit body made of calcareous clay with high content of calcium oxide. This could be inferred from the absence of trapped glaze bubbles. If it is applied to an unfired body, the calcium carbonate will decompose, generating carbon dioxide, the releasing of which from the body to the glaze results in trapped bubbles in the glaze layers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21261183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21261183", "title": "Transcendental Wild Oats", "text": "Transcendental Wild Oats\n\nTranscendental Wild Oats: A Chapter from an Unwritten Romance is a prose satire written by Louisa May Alcott, about her family's involvement with the Transcendentalist community Fruitlands in the early 1840s. The work was first published in a New York newspaper in 1873, and reprinted in 1874, 1876, and 1915 and after.\n\nIn her account, Alcott provides the real people involved with thin pseudonymous disguises. Her father Amos Bronson Alcott is \"Abel Lamb,\" while his partner and community co-founder Charles Lane is \"Timon Lion;\" Abigail May Alcott, Louisa's mother and Bronson's wife, is \"Sister Hope.\" Alcott depicts her father as dominated by his more forceful partner, and both men as feckless and impractical dreamers. The men of the community spend their time in pointless debates while Sister Hope works from dawn to dusk to maintain their existence. \n\nA crisis arises at harvest time, when the grain crop is threatened by an approaching storm. In Alcott's words, \"About the time the grain was ready to house, some call of the Oversoul wafted all the men away.\" Sister Hope organizes the only available help, three little girls and a boy, and manages to save the crop.\n\nThe little community collapses as soon as the weather turns cold, when it becomes clear that their provisions are too meager to last the coming winter. Timon Lion and his son abscond to join the Shakers — though Timon is unhappy to learn that life among them is \"all work and no play.\" Abel is crushed by the failure of the enterprise; after days of despair he begins to eat again only when he realizes that his family needs him. Sister Hope finds a way for them to subsist and persevere.\n\nAlcott's view of male arrogance and female exploitation in this piece is paralleled in her novel \"\", published in the same year as \"Transcendental Wild Oats\".\n\n\"Transcendental Wild Oats\" has been reprinted in several modern editions.\n"}
{"id": "4317892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4317892", "title": "Ulrike Hanna Meinhof", "text": "Ulrike Hanna Meinhof\n\nUlrike Hanna Meinhof is Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton, previously having worked as a professor and Chair of Cultural Studies at the University of Bradford. She is a specialist in discourse analysis. Her main areas of research currently involve ethnographic research in European border communities and a comparative media-project about the 20th century on television.\n\nShe is the author of \"Language Learning in the Age of Satellite Television\", published by Oxford University Press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5356621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5356621", "title": "Vladimir Kuznetsov (diplomat)", "text": "Vladimir Kuznetsov (diplomat)\n\nVladimir Kuznetsov (born 1957) is a former Russian diplomat who was the head of the United Nations Committee for Administrative and Budgetary Issues. He also served as a diplomat for the Russian Mission. In March 2007, he was convicted in New York City of one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering. In October of the same year, he was sentenced to imprisonment for 51 months and a fine of $73,000.\n\nKuznetsov was indicted in September 2005 in Southern District of New York (1:05-cr-00916-DAB-1) following a guilty plea and immediate cooperation by the former UN official Alexander Yakovlev, who is facing 20 years in jail on a conspiracy to commit money laundering charge and has not been sentenced. Yakovlev's lawyer, Arkady Bukh, has stated that he expects Mr. Yakovlev's sentence to be significantly reduced in exchange for Yakovlev's testimony at trial.\n\nKuznetsov was elected to a three-year term on the budget advisory committee in January 2003. The prestigious panel’s 15 members, including a representative of the United States, then elected him as its chairman. He has worked in various budget-related positions in the U.N. Secretariat and the Russian Mission since 1980.\n\nThe chairman is the only member of the ACABQ to draw a U.N. salary and benefits, and also gets diplomatic immunity. Committee members are not UN employees and do not normally enjoy diplomatic immunity. But the General Assembly granted him immunity because of his chairmanship. This diplomatic immunity was waived however, in August, by the UN.\n"}
{"id": "1692086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1692086", "title": "Yuri Manin", "text": "Yuri Manin\n\nYuri Ivanovitch Manin (; born 1937) is a Russian mathematician, known for work in algebraic geometry and diophantine geometry, and many expository works ranging from mathematical logic to theoretical physics. Moreover, Manin was one of the first to propose the idea of a quantum computer in 1980 with his book \"Computable and Uncomputable\".\n\nManin gained a doctorate in 1960 at the Steklov Mathematics Institute as a student of Igor Shafarevich. He is now a Professor at the Max-Planck-Institut für Mathematik in Bonn, and a professor emeritus at Northwestern University.\n\nManin's early work included papers on the arithmetic and formal groups of abelian varieties, the Mordell conjecture in the function field case, and algebraic differential equations. The Gauss–Manin connection is a basic ingredient of the study of cohomology in families of algebraic varieties. He wrote a book on cubic surfaces and cubic forms, showing how to apply both classical and contemporary methods of algebraic geometry, as well as nonassociative algebra. He also indicated the role of the Brauer group, via Grothendieck's theory of global Azumaya algebras, in accounting for obstructions to the Hasse principle, setting off a generation of further work. He also formulated the Manin conjecture, which predicts the asymptotic behaviour of the number of rational points of bounded height on algebraic varieties. He has further written on Yang–Mills theory, quantum information, and mirror symmetry.\n\nManin had over 40 doctoral students, including Vladimir Berkovich, Mariusz Wodzicki, Alexander Beilinson, Ivan Cherednik, Alexei Skorobogatov, Vladimir Drinfeld, Mikhail Kapranov, Vyacheslav Shokurov, Arend Bayer and Victor Kolyvagin, as well as foreign students including Hà Huy Khoái, now the most senior mathematician in Vietnam. He was awarded the Brouwer Medal in 1987, the Schock Prize in 1999 and the Cantor Medal in 2002. In 1994, he was awarded the Nemmers Prize in Mathematics. In 2010, he received the Bolyai Prize of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1990 he became foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21721348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21721348", "title": "Zarautsoy Rock Paintings", "text": "Zarautsoy Rock Paintings\n\nThe Zarautsoy Rock Paintings are a gallery of rock art contains the oldest petroglyphs in Central Asia. The images describe primitive man’s everyday life, and bull and wild goat hunting. The site is located in the Surxondaryo Region of Uzbekistan.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on 18 January 2008, in the Cultural category.\n\n"}
{"id": "7853473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7853473", "title": "Árpád Soós", "text": "Árpád Soós\n\nÁrpád Soós (20 September 1912, Budapest – 1 June 1991, Budapest) was a Hungarian zoologist, entomologist and museologist. He is best known for his work on leeches and flies (Diptera) and, as co-editor with László Papp, for the Catalogue of Palaearctic Diptera 1986-1993.\n\n\n"}
