{"id": "841310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841310", "title": "Aja of Kosala", "text": "Aja of Kosala\n\nIn Hinduism, Aja (Tamil: Achan, Thai: Achaban, Malay: Dasarata Raman) was the 38th king in the Solar Dynasty, descent from the sun god Surya. He was the son of king Raghu, one of the most famous kings of the Ikshvaku dynasty. His paternal grandfather was the pious king Dileepa.\n\nKing Aja ruled the kingdom of Kosala on the southern banks of the river Sarayu in the northern part of India, with Ayodhya as his capital. His wife Indumati, an apsara (celestial woman), who was born on earth due to a curse and his son was Dasharatha, father of Rama, an avatar of Vishnu. It is said that Aja was so grief stricken when his wife died, he ran into the palace and committed suicide. Some other instances tell that he couldn't bear the thought of Indumati leaving him and died heart broken that instant. While sage Narada was traversing the sky, garland from his Veena fell on Indumati, redeeming her from the curse. Regaining the form of apsara, she vanished from earth leaving Aja. King Dasharatha was only eight months old when Aja died.\n\nThe classical Indian poet Kalidasa has elaborated upon the lives and careers of the kings Dileepa, Raghu and Aja in his work entitled \"Raghuvamsha\" (literally: \"Dynasty of Raghu\"). This is significant as these rulers were the immediate forebears of Rama.\n"}
{"id": "13472379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13472379", "title": "Arya Samaj in Mozambique", "text": "Arya Samaj in Mozambique\n\nArya Samaj was formed in Mozambique following the visit by Arya Samaji preacher, Bhawani Dayal, when Hindus in the capital, Lourenço Marques, formed the \"Bharat Sabha\" in 1933, on the basis of Vedic teachings. A Veda \"Mandir\" (temple) was built in 1937 and many Arya Samaji preachers visited the \"Mandir\" in subsequent years. \n\nIn 1962, relations between India and Portugal was strained due to India's annexation of Goa, a Portuguese territory on the sub-continent. Indians in overseas Portuguese territories were victimised and most had to leave these colonies. Thus the work of Arya Samj in Mozambique came to an end.\n"}
{"id": "15295224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15295224", "title": "Bejan Daruwalla", "text": "Bejan Daruwalla\n\nBejan Daruwalla, born 11 July 1931, is a popular Indian astrology columnist. He has also served as a professor of English in Ahmedabad. Despite being of Parsi heritage, he is known to be an ardent follower of Lord Shri Ganesh. His astrological techniques combines Indian and Western Astrology, I-Ching, Tarot reading, the Kabalah and Palmistry.\n\nHe sums up his general approach and technique of making predictions like this, \"First of all, if the person is there I look at him and get vibrations. Second, the time the person comes is important. Thirdly, what type of day is it? Good, bad or indifferent? Fourth, lines on the palm. Fifth, the Indian horoscope and lastly, the western horoscope. So all this goes into a computer called the brain. And after that I look at Ganesha and make a prediction.\"\n\nHe is known for making several accurate predictions such as the death of Sanjay Gandhi, the rise of Indian nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, the Kargil War and the Gujarat earthquake.\n\nDaruwala also has a notable record of failed predictions, some of which include his prediction that South Africa will emerge the winner of 2003 Cricket World Cup. For 2007 Cricket World Cup he predicted that, \"India had a \"strong chance\" of winning the World Cup and that either Rahul Dravid or Munaf Patel would be \"player of the tournament\".\" He had forecast that Shahrukh Khan would gain name and fame from his association with Kolkata Knight Riders in 2008. He added that both Shahrukh and Saurav Ganguly are in great shape astrologically which should bode well for Kolkata Knight Riders. The team was supposed to reach semi-finals in the IPL tournament as per his prediction.\n\nDaruwalla also predicted that Kashmir problem should be solved between 2001 and 2002. Another prediction was made to the effect that Atal Bihari Vajpayee would return to the power in 2004. After Manmohan Singh became the PM with UPA in power at the centre in 2004, he predicted that India will have a new government by August 2005. Predicting the rise of India as a superpower in the 21st century, he asserted the year 2008 will mark India's rise. In December 2004 he predicted that \"India and Pakistan will reach a workable truce in the next three years.\" At the same point of time, he made this observation for US, \"I am not happy with Bush. He made a mistake by attacking Iraq and I suspect that he may not be able to complete his term.\" Further, he added, \"it will take at least nine months for any kind of peace to come to Iraq.\" He also predicted that before 2010 America will have a woman President. In March 2009, he predicted that, \"Amitabh might become a grandfather this year, Saif might get married.\" Another prediction was that \"2009 will bring about Osama's downfall.\"\nOn the sets of Bigg Boss 4, replying to a question from host Salman Khan about who will win the show, Daruwalla said, \"\"I see there is a tough competition between Shweta Tiwari and Dolly Bindra\".\" He also predicted that Salman Khan will host the next season of Bigg Boss as well.\n\nSome of his most amusing predictions include the assertion that by 2007 \"\"massive trains and huge cars will fly gracefully\" and \"the secrets of the space as such will be discovered\".\" Another prediction speaks about India that, \"\"On our Republic Day 2008, we will be visited by aliens. The best part of it is, we will know it and accept it\".\"\n\nAs far as scientific validity of astrology is concerned, Daruwala maintains, \"I don't care if it's a science or not. Fact is, it works.\" He asserts that astrology combines three things. The position of the planets is by astronomy. Then, the synthesis between planets, dishas, signs etc. is an art. And the final prediction is by ESP, intuition or the grace of Ganesha.\n\nExplaining the concept of sun-sign based astrological forecasts and the problems with dividing the world into 12 categories based on zodiac signs, he says, \"It really cannot be divided. It is only a matter of convenience. I think about 65 per cent of such predictions come correct and that is a good average. But no, you cannot make predictions like that. You have to read the individual horoscopes and even then you must have it in your destiny to predict correctly.\"\n\nWhen asked about astrophysicist Jayant Narlikar's assertion regarding lack of scientific evidence to support the theory of lunar influence on human behaviour based on certain statistical studies, he suggests, \"I have seen people who are affected. But if he says no, he must have done a bigger research. But I'm not saying that astrology is a complete science. I have not tested it, so I don't know. I am not interested in the science of it. I am only interested in the art of it and Ganesha.Many astrologers fight with people that it is a science. Frankly, I care a damn whether it is a science or not. It works and that is important. You can call it science or you can call it bullshit. Even planets and planetary positions are supposed to affect human behaviour. But I haven't tested it. But I know that many Virgos fear about their health, many Taureans want possessions, many Leos are egoistic and most Cancerians want family and security.\"\n\n\"By the grace of Ganesha, I have spent most of my life studying and practicing astrology, and have thus acquired a lot of experience and knowledge. I want to leave it behind for the betterment of mankind and thus entrust www.bejandaruwalla.com to keep my art and name alive in the times to come\n\nDaruwalla has bequeathed his astrological legacy to web portal, bejandaruwalla.com as successors.\n\n"}
{"id": "14957454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14957454", "title": "Bhai Nand Lal", "text": "Bhai Nand Lal\n\nBhai Nand Lal (, , , 1633–1713), also known as Bhai Nand Lal Singh, was a 17th-century Persian, and Arabic poet in the Punjab region. He was one of the fifty-two poets of Guru Gobind Singh's Darbar (court). He was born in Ghazni in Afghanistan to father \"Chhajju Mal\" who was a famous Persian scholar himself. Bhai Sahib lived in Multan and later became a courtier in Darbar (court) of Guru Gobind Singh; the tenth Sikh Guru.\n\nHe was provided education in Arabic, Persian, and Mathematics during his early years. At the age of 12 he started writing poetry in Persian under the pen name Goya. At the age of 17 he lost his mother, and two years later his father. In 1652, he went to Multan and settled over there, and was married to a Sikh girl. Thereafter, he became inclined towards Sikhism, met Guru Gobind Singh in 1682 and later became Amritdhari. In 1707, he finally left his job with Prince Muazzam and appeared before Guru Gobind Singh. He came to Multan again in 1712 after the death of Bahadur Shah I and started a school of Arabic and Persian. He died in 1713 when in Multan.\n\nSome of his major works includes :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5363354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5363354", "title": "Cardinal Vicar", "text": "Cardinal Vicar\n\nCardinal Vicar () is a title commonly given to the vicar general of the Diocese of Rome for the portion of the diocese within Italy (i.e. excluding the portion within Vatican City). The official title, as given in the Annuario Pontificio, is \"Vicar General of His Holiness\".\n\nThe Bishop of Rome is responsible for the spiritual administration of this diocese, but because the Bishop of Rome is also the Pope, with many other responsibilities, he appoints a Cardinal Vicar with ordinary power to assist in this task. Canon law requires all Catholic dioceses to have one or more vicars general, but the Cardinal Vicar functions more like a \"de facto\" diocesan bishop than do other vicars general. The holder has usually been a cardinal.\n\nA similar position exists to administer the spiritual needs of the Vatican City, known as the Vicar General for Vatican City, or more exactly, Vicar General of His Holiness for Vatican City.\n\nIt seems certain that in the twelfth century vicars were named only when the pope absented himself for a long time from Rome or its neighbourhood. When he returned, the vicar's duties ceased. This may have lasted to the pontificate of Pope Innocent IV (1243–54); on the other hand it is certain that in the latter half of the thirteenth century the vicar continued to exercise the duties of his office even during the presence of the pope at Rome. Thus the nomination of a vicar on 28 April 1299, is dated from the Lateran. The office owes its full development to the removal of the Roman Curia to Southern France and its final settlement at Avignon. Since then the list of vicars is continuous.\n\nThe oldest commissions do not specify any period of duration; in the Bull of 16 June 1307, it is said for the first time that the office is held \"at our good will\". It is only in the sixteenth century that we meet with life-tenures; the exact year of this important modification remains yet to be fixed. Formerly the nomination was by Bull; when began the custom of nominating by Brief is difficult to determine. The oldest Bull of nomination known bears the date of 13 February 1264.\n\nAn immemorial custom of the Curia demands that all its officials shall be duly sworn in, and this was the case with the vicars. In all probability during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries such oaths were taken at the hands of the pope himself. Later the duty fell to the Apostolic Camera. The oath, whose text (though very much older) first appears in a document of 21 May 1427, greatly resembles, in its first part, the usual episcopal oath; while the latter part applies to the office in question. The oath is conceived in very general terms and lays but slight stress on the special duties of the vicar. The official named on 18 October 1412, as representative of the vicar was also sworn in, and before entering on his office was admonished to take, in presence of a specified cardinal, the usual oath of fidelity to the pope and of a faithful exercise of the office.\n\nAccording to the oldest known decree of nomination, 13 February 1264, both Romans and foreigners were subject to the jurisdiction of the vicar. In this document, however, neither the special rights of the vicar nor the local extent of his authority are made known, but it is understood that the territory in question is the city of Rome. On 27 June 1288, the vicar received the rights of \"visitation, correction and reformation in spiritual matters ... of dedicating churches and reconciling cemeteries, consecrating altars, blessing, confirming, and ordaining suitable persons from the city\". On 21 July 1296, Pope Boniface VIII added the authority to hear confessions and impose salutary penances. On 6 July 1202, the following variant is met with: \"to reform the churches, clergy, and people of Rome itself\", and the additional right to do other things pertaining to the office of vicar.\n\nHis jurisdiction over all monasteries is first vouched for 16 June 1207. The inclusion among these of monasteries, exempt and non-exempt and their inmates, without the walls of Rome, was the first step in the local extension of the vicar's jurisdiction. He was also empowered to confer vacant benefices in the city. For a considerable length of time the above-mentioned rights exhibit the fulness of the vicar's authority.\n\nSpecial commissions, however, multiply in this period, bearing with them in each case a special extension or new application of authority. Under Pope Clement VI (1342–52) the territory of the vicar-general's jurisdiction was notably increased by the inclusion of the suburbs and the rural district about Rome. Until the time of Pope Benedict XIV (1740–58) this was the extent of the vicar's jurisdiction. By the \"district of the city of Rome\" was understood a distance of forty Italian miles from the city walls. Since, however, the territory of the suburbicarian sees lay partially within these limits, the vicar came to exercise a jurisdiction concurrent with that of the local bishop and cumulatively. This was a source of frequent conflicts, until 21 December 1744, when the local jurisdiction of the suburbicarian bishops was abolished by Benedict XIV, insofar as their territory fell within the above-mentioned limits.\n\nIn the course of time the vicar acquired not only the position and authority of a vicar-general, but also that of a real ordinary, including all the authority of the latter office. This is quite evident from his acquired right of subdelegation whereby he was allowed to name a vicegerent, his representative not alone in pontifical ceremonies (as many maintain), but also in jurisdiction. For the rest, being already \"delegatus a principe\" he can canonically subdelegate.\n\nBy a Constitution of Clement VIII, 8 June 1592, the vicar's right to hold a visitation ordinary and extraordinary of churches, monasteries, clergy, and the people (dating from 16 June 1307) was withdrawn in favour of the Congregatio Visitationis Apostolicæ, newly founded, for the current affairs of the ordinary visitation. Henceforth this duty pertains to the vicarius urbis only insofar as he may be named president or member of this congregation, the prefect of which is the pope himself. The great \"extraordinary\" visitations, held generally at the beginning of each pontificate, were executed by a specially-appointed commission of cardinals and prelates, the presidency of which fell by custom to the vicar. The Congregation of the Visitation was quite independent of the vicar, being constituted by Apostolic authority.\n\nIn 1929, with the establishment of Vatican City, Pope Pius XII removed Vatican City State from the authority of the Cardinal Vicar. Pope John XXIII established that the offices of the vicarate would be located at the Lateran Palace. Pope John Paul II reorganized the vicarate with the Apostolic constitution \"Ecclesia in Urbe\", to bring the structure of the vicarate more in line with the 1983 Code of Canon Law.\n\nThe authority of the vicar does not cease with the pope who appointed him. But should he die during a vacancy of the Holy See, the vicegerent assumed his functions as a quasi vicar capitular. Theoretically at least, the vicar may hold diocesan synods; he could also formerly grant a number of choir-benefices. Pope Leo XIII reserved this right in perpetuity to the pope.\n\nThe first episcopal assistant of the vicar known is Angelus de Tineosis, Episcopus Viterbiensis, named 2 October 1321, as assistant to the Vicar Andreas, Episcopus Terracinensis. His position is not so well outlined in the documents that we can form a clear idea of his duties. It is significant that Angelus officiated as assistant even when the Vicar Andreas was in the city. On the other hand, the Vicar Franciscus Scaccani, Episcopus Nolanus, was allowed to choose an assistant for the business of the vicariate only in the case of his own absence from Rome. According to this document it was not for the pope but the vicar himself, though authorized thereto by the pope, who chose his own assistant and gave over to him all his authority or faculties, insofar as they were based on law or custom. This shows that the \"vicarius urbis\" was firmly established in the fulness of his office and externally recognized as such; certain consuetudinary rights had even at this date grown up and become accepted. We see from the \"Bullarium Magnum\" (II, 75) that on 18 October 1412, Pope John XXII nominated Petrus Saccus, a canon of St. Peter's, as locum tenens of the Vicar Franciscus, abbas monasterii S. Martini in Monte Cimino O.S.B., and himself conferred on this official all the faculties of the vicar. The new \"locum tenens\" was bidden to take the usual oath before the Apostolic Camera (see above). A similar case is that (1430) of Lucas de Ilpernis, another canon of St. Peter's. When Petrus Accolti, Bishop-elect of Ancona, was named vicarius urbis in 1505, he took over the jurisdiction, but the pontificalia or ceremonial rights were given to Franciscus Berthleay, Bishop of Mylopotamos, until the consecration of Accolti. A similar case is that of Andreas Jacobazzi, a canon of St. Peter's, named vicar in 1519, but not consecrated as Bishop of Lucera until 1520; the pontificalia were committed to Vincentius, Bishop of Ottochaz-Zengg.\n\nThe series of assistants to the vicar, now known as \"vices-gerentes\" (vicegerent), begins with 1560. Until the time of Pope Clement XI (1700) they were named by the vicar; since then the pope has appointed them by a special Brief. The vicesgerens is therefore not a representative (locum tenens) of the vicar, but a subordinate auxiliary bishop appointed for life, though removable at any time. His authority (faculties) relative to jurisdiction and orders is identical with that of the vicar; for its exercise, however, he depends on the latter, as is expressly stated in the Brief of his nomination. In particular, the vicar has committed to him the administration of the treasury of relics known as the Lisanotheca or relic-treasury of the vicariate, the censorship of books, and the permission to print. The censorship of books was entrusted to the vicar by a Bull of 4 May 1515 (in the \"Magnum Bullarium\"); this right, however, is now exercised by the vices-gerens subject to the Magister sacri palatii, to whose imprimatur he adds his own name without further examination of the book in question. The really responsible censor is therefore the Magister sacri palati, not the vicesgerens. Occasionally there have been two assistants of the vicar, to one of whom were committed all matters of jurisdiction, to the other the pontificalia and ordinations; the latter was known as suffragan of the vicar.\n\nIn this respect the duties of the vicar are of primary importance, since a multitude of ecclesiastics from all parts of the world pursue their studies at Rome and receive orders there on presentation of the required authorization of their respective bishops. For every order conferred at Rome there is a special examination conducted by a body of twenty-five learned ecclesiastics from the secular and the regular clergy, which operates in sections of three. Orders are regularly conferred on the days prescribed by ecclesiastical law and in the cathedral of the Bishop of Rome, i. e. in the Lateran Basilica; they may, however, be conferred on other days and in other churches or chapels. They are usually conferred either by the vicar himself or by the vicesgerens; by special delegation from the vicar, however, another bishop may occasionally ordain candidates. For the rights of the cardinals to ordain in their own churches (tituli, diaconia) see Cardinal. By a general pontifical indult any bishop resident in Rome may administer the Sacrament of Confirmation, it being still customary at Rome to confirm all children who seem in danger of death.\n\nAll matters concerning the monasteries of Rome and their inmates pertain to a special commission in the vicariate composed of about eight members and under the direction of the vicar.\n\nStrict regulations of Pope Pius X permit only those to preach in Rome who have been found worthy after a thorough examination, scientific and practical, before a special commission which issues to each successful candidate the proper authorization. A similar regulation exists for priests desirous of hearing confessions in the city.\n\nThe parochial clergy of Rome form a special corporation, under a Camerlengo chosen annually by themselves. Apart from the rights secured them by their statutes, insofar as approved by the pope, they are entirely subject to the vicar.\n\nSince the vicar is the ordinary judge of the Roman Curia and its territory, it follows that he has always had and now has his own court, or tribunal. Formerly it took cognizance of both civil and criminal matters, either alone or concurrently with other tribunals, whether the case pertained to voluntary or to contentious jurisdiction. This court no longer deals with criminal cases, though it still exists for certain matters provided for in the ecclesiastical law, the details of which may be seen in any of the larger manuals of canon law. The principal officials of the court of the vicariate are the above-mentioned vicegerens, the locum tenens civilia, the promotor fiscalis for cases of beatification and canonization, the promotor fiscalis for other ecclesiastical matters, chiefly monastic vows. In former times the auditor of the vicariate was a very busy person, being called on to formulate or to decide the various processes brought before the vicar; to-day the office is mostly an honorary one. Matrimonial cases are dealt with by two officials who form a special section of the vicariate\n\nAmong the minor officials of the vicar the most important are those who have charge of the secretariate, i. e. the secretary, his representative, two minutanti or clerks, and the aforesaid auditor of the vicar. The secretary is daily at his post and is authorized by subdelegation to decide or settle a number of minor matters of a regularly recurring nature; he also makes known the decisions of the vicar in more important matters; and is accessible to every one daily during a period of two hours. In view of a speedier administration corresponding to modern demands Pope Pius X has very much simplified the workings of the vicariate; some of its departments he suppressed, others he combined, so that now of its former fifteen sections and sub-sections only seven remain.\n\nThe organization of the Roman vicariate, as described above, rested largely on usage; it was not constructed as a compact whole at one single time. The most important ordinances respecting it were issued at various times during the course of the last two centuries, showing that for a long time the inadequacy of its organization, especially as regards the great length of time necessary for the settlement of matters brought before it, had been severely felt, more, however, by the subordinates of the vicariate than by its higher officials. It could not be said that its methods of business were in any way compatible with modern ideas as to efficient management. The lack of harmony was doubly evident after the entire central administration of the Church had been reformed by the Constitution \"Sapienti Consilio\", of 29 June 1908. During the past various difficulties had stood in the way of a thorough reform of the Roman vicariate. Not the least of these was the lack of space in the former office of the vicariate. It was not until after the purchase of the Palazzo Mariscotti near San Francesco alle Stimmate, which was assigned to the cardinal vicar and his officials and arranged for their use, that Pius X was able to carry out his long cherished plan for a thorough reform of the Roman vicariate.\n\nPope Pius X published his new ordinances respecting the administration of his Diocese of Rome in the Apostolic Constitution \"Etsi nos in\", of 1 January 1912, and the canon law entered into force, as provided in it, on 15 January 1912, the day it was promulgated in the \"Acta Apostolicae Sedis\". Of the regulations for the period of transition, which were naturally necessary in so thorough a reorganization, only one need be mentioned. This is that the former vicegerent (\"vicesgerens\", see below), whose office and title were to be suppressed, was permitted as a personal privilege to continue to bear the title as long as he was connected with any of the transactions of the vicariate.\n\nThe \"Curia Urbis\" or the Vicariate of the City of Rome was divided into four departments (\"officia\"), of which the second is again divided into four sections. The first department (\"officium\") has under its care all the church services and the Apostolic visitation of the diocese. The second department watches over the behaviour of the clergy and the Christian people. Judicial matters are settled in the third department, and the fourth department is devoted to the economic administration of the entire vicariate. The head of all these bureaus is the cardinal who is the vicar-general of the pope in Rome. His office and the extent of his power are always the same and are permanent, so that they do not cease even when the Papal See is vacant. This fact distinguishes the cardinal vicar as he is called, for the designation is not an official title, from all other vicars-general in the world, and gives him his peculiar legal position. In the same way it is a noticeable exception that the four departments can carry on their customary business, even when the vicar is not able to supervise what is done on account of the conclave or of some other impediment. Even should the vicar die the work of the departments goes quietly on. Formerly this was not the case to so large a degree, as is shown by the deputation of 17 December 1876, on the death of Cardinal Vicar Patrizi.\n\nThe head of the first department is a commissary, of the second an assessor, of the third an auditor, and of the fourth a prefect. Their respective rank follows the order given above. Among the offices mentioned in the former article those of the vicegerent (\"vicesgerens\"), the \"locum tenens\", the secretary, and the auditor in the earlier form were abolished. None of the four new presiding officers of the departments is permitted under any pretext whatever to interfere in the affairs of another, except in purely internal matters of administration.\n\nThe canonical visitation of the Diocese of Rome is in the hands of a commission of cardinals. The president of the commission is the vicar, and its members by virtue of their office are prefects of the Congregation of the Council and of Religious Orders. The secretary of this official board is the commissary just mentioned. The first appointee as secretary and commissary was the former vicegerent (\"vicesgerens\"). The archives and compendiums of abstracts of the former Congregation of the Apostolic Visitation, which has been suppressed since 1908, belong to the new commission. Every five years, the next falling in 1916, a canonical visitation of Rome is to be held without any express papal command being issued before the visitation. Six paragraphs (12–17) regulate the details of the procedure to be observed in the visitation.\n\nThe treasury of relics (\"lipsanotheca\"), the archaeological commission, and the committee on church music are included in this department and are under the supervision of the vicar. A commission on ecclesiastical art has been established; its competence includes the erection of churches, their maintenance, restoration and adornment. The first department is obliged to keep an exact list of all the churches in Rome, in one of which is noted the object and peculiarities of each church.\n\nThe second department has four sections, the head of each of which is a secretary: the first section has to do with the clergy; the second, with the convents of women; the third with the schools, colleges and other institutions for education in the city; the fourth with the brotherhoods, unions, and social societies. All four sections are subordinate first to the vicar and next to the assessor. The powers of the first section are laid down in details in twelve ordinances. Mention should be made of the stringent rule that no clergyman, regardless of whether he belongs to the Roman clergy or to another diocese, can be called to an office or a benefice by anyone, even a cardinal, unless it has been previously established by a secret letter to the vicar that the vicariate has no objection to his appointment. This regulation puts an end finally to an old abuse of historic growth which in past times led to much that was disadvantageous.\n\nThis department has to keep a register of all members of the secular and regular clergy of the city, giving the name, age, residence, kind of employment and other personal notes. The vicar is aided in the settlement of all matters regarding the clergy by the examiners of the clergy, in the settlement of questions as to the transfer or deposition of parish priests by the consultors, in all questions as to offices and benefices by the general supervisory council, the deputies for the seminaries and the advisory council (\"commissio directiva\"). Detailed regulations are given as to the examiners of the clergy in paragraph 30, a to i. The second section of this department is charged with the supreme direction and supervision of the numerous convents for women; the details are regulated in seven paragraphs. Paragraphs 38–46 are concerned with the schools, colleges, and other educational institutions for the laity. The care of these is the duty of the third section. Its secretary must keep an exact list of all such institutions, of their teachers and principals, and exact statistics respecting the pupils. He must attend the meetings of the school board, keep its minutes, and must execute all the orders of the vicar or the supervisory council respecting these institutions. Paragraphs 47–57 regulate in detail the work of the fourth section, which has under its charge the brotherhoods, unions, and social societies. It consists of a council of six members with a secretary of its own.\n\nAll previously existing judicial bodies are suppressed and the pope has made the vicar the ordinary and sole judge in the first instance for all suits brought in the court of the Roman diocese. The vicar passes judgement only in those cases which he has expressly reserved for himself; in other cases his auditor acts as judge, forming with the vicar one and the same court. The auditor is regarded as the official of the curia of the Roman Diocese and tries the suits according to common law. The office and jurisdiction of the camerlengo of the Roman clergy have been suppressed and his faculties and jurisdiction have been transferred completely to the auditor, who is provided with a substitute. When according to common law a suit is to be decided not by a single judge but by a full bench, the auditor is then held to be the presiding judge, in case the vicar does not reserve the position of presiding officer to himself. The appointment of the associate judges belongs to the pope; for the individual case the vicar has the right to select the associate judges from those appointed by the pope. This ordinance is especially worth noticing. The other ordinances cannot here be discussed in detail.\n\nThe fourth department is directed by a prefect. It has charge of all the purely administrative affairs of the vicariate, its principal work being the care of finances; it has also charge of the purchase of supplies, as the formularies, supplies for the chancellery, etc. The organization effected offers nothing that requires any particular comment. The head of the department is called a prefect.\n\nThe necessary changes being made, the essential ordinances of the Constitution \"Sapienti Consilio\" and the enacting ordinances afterwards issued for the congregations and curial authorities in regard to the manner in which business should be transacted also apply to the vicariate. It should be observed that a secret and a public archive have been established for the vicariate. The vicar is to submit to the pope for approval the rules respecting office hours and holidays. Of much importance is the closing formula of the Constitution which was drawn up in accordance with the new formulary of the Apostolic Chancellery. After the formulary has been tested for a time by practice it is to be published. It says: \"Decernentes praesentes litteras firmas, validas et efficaces semper esse et fore, suosque plenarios et integros effectus sortiri et obtinere a die promulgationis in Commentario de Apostolicae Sedis actis\".\n\nA comparison with the earlier article shows that the reconstruction of the vicariate is not an organic continuation of the former condition but that an entirely new organization has been created. There is in this change an evident effort to organize the official bodies as servants of the public and to do this on the basis of the modern method of carrying on business, as it is found everywhere in countries that lead in civilization and in well-organized central boards of authorities. Formerly the administration was a cumbrous one, impeded by traditional obstacles; it may perhaps be said to have regarded itself as the primary object and the public which it should serve as of subordinate consideration. This state of things is now past, thanks to the energy of the reigning pope, which overcame all obstacles. Now, anyone who has business with the vicariate knows exactly to which department, which official, he must go in order to have the matter in question speedily settled. It is to be expected that in the course of time the third department owing to the test of practical working may undergo slight changes, as it is not probable that all ordinances will prove capable of permanent execution. The characteristics of the new organization are division of work and rigid separation of the judiciary from the executive administration, together with an ample supply of officials for the different departments. In the reorganization customs that had become historical were taken into consideration only insofar as they could be combined without difficulty with modern methods of business.\n\nTo inspire greater confidence in the newly created offices of the vicariate, the pope appointed in May 1912 a superior board of control, composed of three cardinals, whose duty it is to supervise the business affairs of the vicariate; Cardinals Lugari, Pompili and Van Rossum were the first to be named for this important and influential board and these nominations were received by the clergy of Rome with unanimous expressions of good will and gratification.\n\nThe current organizational document of the Diocese of Rome is the 1998 Apostolic Constitution Ecclesia in Urbe.\n\nThe first \"vicarius in spiritualibus\" clearly vouched for is Bovo (Bobo) episcopus Tusculanus (Lavicanus) about 1106. Until 1260 the vicars were chosen from among the cardinals; the first vicar taken from among the bishops in the vicinity of Rome was the Dominican Thomas Fusconi de Berta, episcopus Senensis (Moroni, Eubel). This custom continued until the secret consistory of 29 November 1558, when Pope Paul IV decreed that in the future the vicars should be chosen from among the cardinals of episcopal dignity; it was then that arose the popular title of \"cardinal-vicar\", never used officially; the formal title was then \"Vicarius Urbis\", and is now, under the Annuario Heading heading \"Vicariato di Roma – Vicariatus Urbis\", \"Vicario Generale di Sua Santità\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12022883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12022883", "title": "Catholic lay organisations", "text": "Catholic lay organisations\n\nThis a list of organisations convering Catholic laity. It aims to list a ecclesial movements of unspecified standing. For international Catholic movements that have received official approval by the Catholic Church, see Directory of International Associations of the Faithful.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32745503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32745503", "title": "Chan Kam Lee", "text": "Chan Kam Lee\n\nPractitioners of Lee-style t'ai chi ch'uan believe Chan Kam Lee was a Taoist teacher who brought Taoist Arts to the West. According to Chee Soo, Chan Kam Lee established a Taoist Arts school in Red Lion Square in Holborn in 1930 teaching Lee-style t'ai chi ch'uan, Qigong, Traditional Chinese Medicine and Feng Shou 'Hand of the Wind' Kung Fu, and used his knowledge of Chinese Medicine and Herbalism to adapt the Ch'ang Ming diet for Westerners. Chan Kam Lee is referenced in several books written by Chee Soo and published by HarperCollins, but there is no corroboration of his existence independent of Chee Soo's accounts.\n\nNo he was sitting there, just sitting there very quietly, and I went over to retrieve my ball, and I came up to the front of him to apologise, and I saw he was Chinese, and we got talking and he was an importer/exporter, very much alone he had no family, and I was of course actually an orphan and having no family of my own, and the friendship gradually grew and grew, and till eventually in actual fact after many meetings he invited me to his club in Holborn, Red Lion Square, which he had a little club meeting three or four times a week, and from then on I practised under him almost continuously. \n\nChan Kam Lee is said to have been the last in line of the Lee family from Weihaiwei in northern China, and as he was an importer and exporter of precious and semi-precious stones, he travelled thousands of miles promoting his business, which was mainly between Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and England. After he had built up a stable business he finally set up his main office in London, and from there he did most of his trade.\n\nChee Soo says that, after a while, Chan Kam Lee began to get restless, and he sought an outlet for his physical, mental and spiritual needs. As a result, he established a small and select class in a schoolroom in Red Lion Square, near Holborn, in Central London, teaching and practising his Chinese Taoist arts. He catered only for his own personal friends and their sons, so the total number of his students was very small, and at the most there were only a dozen people attending. All of them were in business and travelled quite a lot, so the average attendance at any one time was only in the region of six people. However, this did not deter Chan Lee for he was able to keep up his own practice as well, which was the main objective in the first place, so he was very happy.\n\nAccording to Chee Soo's account:\n\"In the winter of 1953-4, Chan Lee died, off the coast of China, near Canton, when the ship he was travelling in sank in a severe storm,\" Chan Lee's student went on to teach the Taoist Arts and during the cultural revolution his group was the largest group teaching Taoist Arts in the world. After the death of Chee Soo in 1994 several groups have continued to teach the Taoist Arts of the Lee family style in Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, and in other countries around the world.\n"}
{"id": "28725133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28725133", "title": "Council of Protestants in Guiding and Scouting", "text": "Council of Protestants in Guiding and Scouting\n\nThe Council of Protestants in Guiding and Scouting (CPGS) is an autonomous, international body committed to promoting and supporting Protestant Scout and Guide associations and to be a link between the Scout movement and Protestant churches based on the definition of the World Council of Churches (WCC).\n\nIt enjoys consultative status with the World Scout Committee and forms the World Scout Inter-religious Forum (WSIF) together with the International Link of Orthodox Christian Scouts, International Catholic Conference of Scouting, International Union of Muslim Scouts, International Forum of Jewish Scouts, Won-Buddhism Scout and World Buddhist Scout Brotherhood.\n\nThe CPGS was founded as \"Conference on Christianity in Guiding and Scouting\" (CCGS) in 1965. In 2006 it was renamed to \"Council of Protestants in Guiding and Scouting\" reflecting a change of policy within the World Organization of the Scout Movement.\n\nThe members of the CPGS are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17262141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17262141", "title": "Daegaksa", "text": "Daegaksa\n\nDaegaksa is a Buddhist temple of the Jogye Order in Seoul, South Korea. It is located in Bongik 2-dong in the Jongno-gu area of the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1390782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1390782", "title": "Don't Worry, Be Happy", "text": "Don't Worry, Be Happy\n\n\"Don't Worry, Be Happy\" is a popular worldwide hit song by musician Bobby McFerrin. Released in September 1988, it became the first \"a cappella\" song to reach number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, a position it held for two weeks.\n\nThe Indian mystic and sage Meher Baba (1894–1969) often used the expression \"Don't worry, be happy\" when cabling his followers in the West.\n\nIn the 1960s, the expression was printed up on inspirational cards and posters of the era. In 1988, McFerrin noticed a similar poster in the apartment of the jazz duo Tuck & Patti in San Francisco. Inspired by the expression's charm and simplicity, McFerrin wrote the now famous song, which was included in the soundtrack of the movie \"Cocktail\", and became a hit single the next year. In an interview by Bruce Fessier for \"USA Weekend\" magazine in 1988 McFerrin said, \"Whenever you see a poster of Meher Baba, it usually says 'Don't worry, be happy,' which is a pretty neat philosophy in four words, I think.\"\n\nLinda Goldstein, the song's producer, said the song gave McFerrin \"the freedom to explore,\" adding, \"He is a man of infinite, unfathomable, boundless voices and everything he has ever heard has gone into his brain, from the Mickey Mouse Club theme to the Metropolitan Opera.\"\n\nThe \"instruments\" in the \"a cappella\" song are entirely overdubbed voice parts and other sounds made by McFerrin, using no instruments at all; McFerrin also sings with an affected accent.\n\nThe comedic original music video for the song stars McFerrin, Robin Williams, and Bill Irwin, and is somewhat shorter than the album version.\n\nOriginally released in conjunction with the film \"Cocktail\" in 1988, the song originally peaked at No. 88 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The song was re-released the same year and peaked at No. 1 on September 24, 1988 displacing \"Sweet Child o' Mine\" by Guns N' Roses.\n\nThe song also peaked at No. 11 on the \"Billboard\" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Tracks chart and No. 7 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart. The song was also a hit in the United Kingdom and on the UK Singles Chart, the song reached number 2 during its fifth week on the chart (kept from the top spot by Whitney Houston's \"One Moment in Time\").\n\nIn Canada, the song reached No. 1 on its 8th week.\n\nThe song is the first a cappella song to reach the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and one critic noted it is a \"formula for facing life's trials.\"\n\n\nThe song is ranked No. 31 on VH1's \"100 Greatest One Hit Wonders of the 80s\" and also appears on \"Rolling Stone\"s list of the 15 Best Whistling Songs of All Time.\nAt the 1989 Grammy Awards, \"Don't Worry, Be Happy\" won the awards for Song of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best Male Pop Vocal Performance.\n\nVersions of \"Don't Worry, Be Happy\" have been recorded by several artists. The Katsimiha Brothers made a Greek cover of the song with original lyrics, and Montenegrin musician Rambo Amadeus made a parody titled \"Don't Happy, Be Worry\", as a critique to the optimism of the music scene in the former Yugoslavia in the face of war and economic depression. In addition, the lyrics of \"Fight the Power\" by hip hop artists Public Enemy refer critically to \"Don't Worry, Be Happy\". A version of this song sung by The Hit Crew is also added into the Big Mouth Billy Bass, a very popular animatronic singing toy. Hermes House Band covered the song on their \"Rhythm of the Nineties\" album in 2009. Reggae artist Cas Haley covered the song as a hidden bonus track on his \"Favorites\" album (together with former Jah Roots lead singer, Josh Heinrichs). Also in 1989 Dutch rock DJ Alfred Lagarde recorded a version in Dutch with a heavy Surinam accent under the name Johnny Camaro. Spanish Ska band The Locos covered this song in a similar style, ska.\n\n"}
{"id": "350571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350571", "title": "Early history of Cambodia", "text": "Early history of Cambodia\n\nThe Early history of Cambodia follows the prehistoric and protohistoric development of Cambodia a country in mainland Southeast Asia. Thanks to archaeological work carried out since 2009 this can now be traced back to the Neolithic period. As excavation sites have become more numerous and modern dating methods are applied, settlement traces of all stages of human civil development from neolithic Hunter-gatherer groups to organized preliterate societies are documented in the region.\n\nHistorical records of a political structure on territory that is now modern-day Cambodia first appear in Chinese annals in reference to Funan, a polity that encompassed the southernmost part of the Indochinese peninsula during the 1st to 6th centuries. Centered at the lower Mekong, Funan is noted as the oldest regional Hindu culture, which suggests prolonged socio-economic interaction with maritime trading partners of the Indosphere in the west. By the 6th century a civilization, titled Chenla or Zhenla in Chinese annals, had firmly replaced Funan, as it controlled larger, more undulating areas of Indochina and maintained more than a singular center of power.\n\nThe Khmer Empire was established by the early 9th century in a mythical initiation and consecration ceremony to claim political legitimacy by founder Jayavarman II at Mount Kulen (Mount Mahendra) in 802 C.E. A succession of powerful sovereigns, continuing the Hindu devaraja cult tradition, reigned over the classical era of Khmer civilization until the 11th century. A new dynasty of provincial origin introduced Buddhism as changes of religious, dynastic, administrative and military nature, environmental problems and ecological imbalance coincide with shifts of power in Indochina. The royal chronology ends in the 14th century. Great achievements in administration, and accomplishments in agriculture, architecture, hydrology, logistics, urban planning and the arts are testimony to a creative and progressive civilization - in its complexity a cornerstone of Southeast Asian cultural legacy.\n\nIn 1963 E. Saurin and J-P Carbonnel identified what they believed to be stone tools dating from c.600,000 BP at Sre Sbov in Kratie province; in 2009 a re-examination of the site indicated that the artifacts are results of prehistoric fluvial movement and do not indicate early stone technology.\n\nThe earliest traces of human presence in Cambodia have been found at Laang Spean, a cave in Battambang province. Starting in 2009 archaeological research of the Franco-Cambodian Prehistoric Mission has documented an incomplete cultural sequence from c.70,000 BP to the Neolithic, with clear evidence of a Hoabinhian cultural presence. Equally significant is the site Samrong Sen in Kampong Chhnang Province which was occupied since around 1500 BC and the relative recent site of Phum Snay.\n\nRecent archaeological finds (since 2012) indicate that parts of the region now called Cambodia were inhabited during the second and first millennia BC by a Neolithic hunter and gatherer culture that may have migrated from southeastern China to the Indochinese Peninsula, responsible for the construction of circular earthworks. The Iron Age period beginning around 500 BC, the inhabitants had developed complex, organised societies and a varied religious cosmology by the 1st century CE and engaging in maritime trade, resulting in socio-political interaction with the Indosphere. These original inhabitants spoke advanced Austroasiatic languages and participated in the exchange of contemporary technologies.\n\nThe Khmer people's founding legend centers around an Indian Brahman or prince named Preah Thaong in Khmer, Kaundinya in Sanskrit and Hun-t’ien in Chinese records, who marries the local ruler's daughter, a Naga princess named Nagi Soma (Lieu-Ye in Chinese records), thus establishing the first Cambodian royal dynasty. One day the princess saw the Brahman on a boat and went to speak with him, but was shot by one of his magic arrows which made her fall in love with him. Her father drank all the water that inundated the land and gave the new land to them as a dowry. The Nāga are a pan-Asian mythical race of reptilian beings, who in Cambodia were believed to possess a large empire or kingdom in the Pacific Ocean region. Cambodians today still say that they are \"Born from the Naga\" See: Sage Kambu Swayambhuva.\n\nAt about the time that Western Europe was absorbing the classical culture and institutions of the Mediterranean, the people of mainland and insular Southeast Asia were responding to the stimulus of a civilization that had arisen in India during the previous millennium. The Indianization of Southeast Asia happened as a consequence of the increasing trade in the Indian Ocean. Vedic and Hindu religion, political thought, literature, mythology, and artistic motifs gradually became integral elements in local Southeast Asian cultures. The caste system was never adopted, but Indianization stimulated the rise of highly organised, centralised states.\n\nFunan, the earliest of the Indianised states, is generally considered to have been the first kingdom in the area. Found in the 1st century CE, Funan was located on the lower reaches of the Mekong River delta area, in what is today southeast Cambodia and the extreme south of Vietnam. Its capital, Vyadhapura, probably was located near the present-day town of Ba Phnom in Prey Veng Province. The earliest historical reference to Funan is a Chinese description of a mission that visited the country in the 3rd century. The name Funan is largely believed to be derived from the old khmer word 'Phnom' meaning mountain. The Funanese were likely of Austroasiatic origin. What the Funanese called themselves, however, is not known.\n\nDuring this early period in Funan's history, the population was probably concentrated in villages along the Mekong River and along the Tonlé Sap River below the Tonlé Sap. Traffic and communications were mostly waterborne on the rivers and their delta tributaries. The area was a natural region for the development of an economy based on fishing and rice cultivation. There is considerable evidence that the Funanese economy depended on rice surpluses produced by an extensive inland irrigation system. Maritime trade played an extremely important role in the development of Funan, and the remains of what is believed to have been the kingdom's main port, Óc Eo (O'keo) (now part of Vietnam), contain Roman as well as Persian, Indian, and Greek artefacts.\n\nBy the 5th century, the state exercised control over the lower Mekong River area and the lands around the Tonle Sap. It also commanded tribute from smaller states in the area now comprising northern Cambodia, southern Laos, southern Thailand, and the northern portion of the Malay Peninsula. Indianization was fostered by increasing contact with the subcontinent through the travels of merchants, diplomats, and learned Brahmins. By the end of the 5th century, the elite culture was thoroughly Indianised. Court ceremony and the structure of political institutions were based on Indian models. The Sanskrit language was widely used; the laws of Manu, the Indian legal code, were adopted; and an alphabet based on Indian writing systems was introduced.\n\nBeginning in the early 6th century, civil wars and dynastic strife undermined Funan's stability. A former northern vassal turned to independent kingdom, Chenla, began to increase its power and status quo was achieved only through dynastic marriages. But eventually Funan was absorbed by the Khmer Chenla and became a vassal itself. Funan disappears from history in the 7th century.\n\nThe people of Chenla were probably Khmer. Inscriptions prove, that Khmer script, adopted from south Indian Pallava script, had fully developed and was in use, alongside Sanskrit. Chenla is first mentioned in the Chinese Sui dynasty's history as a Funan vassal. The founder of the kingdom, who managed to break free from Funan's control, was Strutavarman. A later king, Bhavarman, invaded Funan annexing it to Chenla's domains. Once they established control over Funan, they embarked on a course of conquest that continued for three centuries. They subjugated central and upper Laos, annexed portions of the Mekong Delta, and brought what are now western Cambodia and southern Thailand under their direct control.\n\nAt the same time, king Mahendravarman established peace with the neighbouring kingdom of Champa through marriage arrangements, and Isnavarman, who succeeded him in 616, moved to a new capital, which, according to a Chinese writer, was inhabited by 20 thousands families. Culturally, the royal families of Chenla generally preserved the earlier political, social, and religious institutions of Funan, thus preserving the elements introduced from India. Chenla appears to have had a preference for Hinduism over other religions brought from there, like Buddhism.\n\nIn the 8th century, however, factional disputes at the Chenla court resulted in the splitting of the kingdom into rival northern and southern halves. According to Chinese chronicles, the two parts were known as Land (or Upper) Chenla and Water (or Lower) Chenla. Land Chenla maintained a relatively stable existence, but Water Chenla underwent a period of constant turbulence, partly because of attacks from the sea by the Javanese and others. The Sailendra dynasty in Java actively tried to establish control on Water Chenla territories and eventually forced the kingdom to vassal status. The last of the Water Chenla kings allegedly was killed around 790 by a Javanese monarch whom he had offended. The ultimate victor in the strife that followed was the ruler of a small Khmer state located north of the Mekong Delta. His assumption of the throne as Jayavarman II (ca. 802 - 850) marked the liberation of the Khmer people from Javanese suzerainty and the beginning of a Khmer empire.\n\nThe classic period or Khmer Empire lasted from the early 9th century to the early 15th century. Technical and artistic progress, greatest cultural achievements, political integrity and administrative stability marked the golden age of Khmer civilization. The ruins of great temple complexes surrounded by an elaborate hydraulic network - the capital cities of \"Angkor\", located north of the Tonle Sap lake near the modern town of Siem Reap, are a lasting monument to the accomplishments of Jayavarman II and his successors.\n\nJayavarman II settled north of the Tonle Sap and founded Hariharalaya, at modern day Roluos. Indravarman I (877 - 889) extended Khmer control as far west as the Korat Plateau in Thailand, and he ordered the construction of a huge reservoir north of the capital to provide irrigation for wet rice cultivation. His son, Yasovarman I (889 - 900), built the Eastern Baray (reservoir or tank), evidence of which remains to the present time. Its dikes, which may be seen today, are more than 6 kilometres long and 1.6 kilometres wide. The elaborate system of canals and reservoirs built under Indravarman I and his successors were the key to Kambuja's prosperity for half a millennium. By freeing cultivators from dependence on unreliable seasonal monsoons, they made possible an early \"green revolution\" that provided the country with large surpluses of rice. The empire's decline during the 13th and 14th centuries probably was hastened by the deterioration of the irrigation system. Attacks by Thai and other foreign peoples and the internal discord caused by dynastic rivalries diverted human resources from the system's upkeep, and it gradually fell into disrepair.\n\nSuryavarman II (1113 - 1150), one of the greatest Angkorian monarchs, expanded his kingdom's territory in a series of successful wars against the kingdom of Champa in central Vietnam and the small Mon polities as far west as the Irrawaddy River of Burma. He reduced to vassalage the Thai peoples who had migrated into Southeast Asia from the Yunnan region of southern China and established his suzerainty over the northern part of the Malay Peninsula. His greatest achievement was the construction of the temple city complex of Angkor Wat. The largest religious edifice in the world, Angkor Wat is considered the greatest single architectural work in Southeast Asia. However, territorial expansion came to a halt when Suryavarman II was killed in battle attempting to invade Đại Việt. With Đại Việt's support, the Cham quickly drove Khmer presence out of Champa territory. Suryavarman II's reign was, unfortunately, then followed by thirty years of dynastic upheaval and an invasion in revenge by the neighbouring Cham, who destroyed the city of Angkor in 1177.\n\nThe Cham ultimately were driven out by Jayavarman VII, whose reign (1181 - ca. 1218) marked the apogee of Kambuja's power. Unlike his predecessors, who had adopted the worship of the Hindu god-king, Jayavarman VII was a fervent patron of Mahayana Buddhism. Casting himself as a bodhisattva, he embarked on a frenzy of building activity that included the Angkor Thom complex and the Bayon, a remarkable temple whose stone towers depict 216 faces of buddhas, gods, and kings. He also built over 200 rest houses and hospitals throughout his kingdom. Like the Roman emperors, he maintained a system of roads between his capital and provincial towns. According to historian Georges Coedès, \"No other Cambodian king can claim to have moved so much stone.\" Often, quality suffered for the sake of size and rapid construction, as is revealed in the intriguing but poorly constructed Bayon.\n\nCarvings show that everyday Angkorian buildings were wooden structures not much different from those found in Cambodia today. The impressive stone buildings were not used as residences by members of the royal family. Rather, they were the focus of Hindu or Buddhist beliefs that celebrated the divinity, or buddhahood, of the monarch and his family. Coedès suggests that they had the dual function of both temple and tomb. Typically, their dimensions reflected the structure of the Hindu mythological universe. For example, five towers at the centre of the Angkor Wat complex represent the peaks of Mount Meru, the centre of the universe; an outer wall represents the mountains that ring the world's edge; and a moat depicts the cosmic ocean. Like many other ancient edifices, the monuments of the Angkorian region absorbed vast reserves of resources and human labour and their purpose remains shrouded in mystery.\n\nAngkorian society was strictly hierarchical. The king, regarded as divine, owned both the land and his subjects. Immediately below the monarch and the royal family were the Brahman priesthood and a small class of officials, who numbered about 4,000 in the 10th century. Next were the commoners, who were burdened with heavy corvée (forced labour) duties. There was also a large slave class who built the enduring monuments.\n\nAfter Jayavarman VII's death, Kambuja entered a long period of decline that led to its eventual disintegration. The Thai were a growing menace on the empire's western borders. The spread of Theravada Buddhism, which came to Kambuja from Sri Lanka by way of the Mon kingdoms, challenged the royal Hindu and Mahayana Buddhism. Preaching austerity and the salvation of the individual through his or own her efforts, Theravada Buddhism did not lend doctrinal support to a society ruled by an opulent royal establishment maintained through the virtual slavery of the masses.\n\nIn 1353 a Thai army captured Angkor. It was recaptured by the Khmer, but wars continued and the capital was looted several times. During the same period, Khmer territory north of the present Laotian border was lost to the Lao kingdom of Lan Xang. In 1431 the Thai captured Angkor Thom. Thereafter, the Angkorian region did not again encompass a royal capital, except for a brief period in the third quarter of the 16th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "322743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322743", "title": "Freedom of religion in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Freedom of religion in Saudi Arabia\n\nThe Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is an Islamic theocratic absolute monarchy in which Sunni Islam is the official state religion based on firm Sharia law and non-Muslims are not allowed to hold Saudi citizenship. No law requires all citizens to be Muslim, but non-Muslims and many foreign and Saudi Muslims whose beliefs are deemed not to conform with the government’s interpretation of Islam must practice their religion in private and are vulnerable to discrimination, harassment, detention, and, for noncitizens, deportation. Children born to Muslim fathers are by law deemed Muslim, and conversion from Islam to another religion is considered apostasy and punishable by death. Blasphemy against Sunni Islam is also punishable by death, but the more common penalty is a long prison sentence. According to the U.S. Department of State's 2013 Report on International Religious Freedom, there have been 'no confirmed reports of executions for either apostasy or blasphemy' between 1992 and 2013.\n\nA Saudi court sentenced a Palestinian man, Ashraf Fayadh to death for apostasy on November 17, 2015, for alleged blasphemous statements during a discussion group and in a book of his poetry.\n\nReligious freedom is virtually non-existent. The Government does not provide legal recognition or protection for freedom of religion, and it is severely restricted in practice. As a matter of policy, the Government guarantees and protects the right to private worship for all, including non-Muslims who gather in homes for religious practice; however, this right is not always respected in practice and is not defined in law.\n\nThe Saudi Mutaween (), or Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice (i.e., the religious police) enforces the prohibition on the public practice of non-Muslim religions, though its powers were significantly curtailed in April 2016. Sharia applies to all people inside Saudi Arabia, regardless of religion.\n\nThe country’s total land area is about 2,150,000 sq kilometers and the population is about 27 million, of whom approximately 19 million are citizens. The foreign population in the country, including many undocumented migrants, may exceed 12 million. Comprehensive statistics for the religious denominations of foreigners are not available, but they include Muslims from the various branches and schools of Islam, Christians (including Eastern Orthodox, Protestants, and Roman Catholics), Jews, more than 250,000 Hindus, more than 70,000 Buddhists, approximately 45,000 Sikhs, and others.\n\nAccurate religious demographics of citizens are difficult to obtain. A majority of Saudi citizens are Salafi Muslims, and the strict interpretation of Islam taught by the Salafi or Wahhabi (historically known as Sufyani in early Islam but now named as Salafi) sect is the only officially recognized religion. A minority of citizens are Shia Muslims. In 2006, they formed around 15% of the native population. They live mostly in the eastern districts on the Persian Gulf (Qatif, Al-Hasa, Dammam), where they constitute approximately three-quarters of the native population, and in the western highlands of Arabia (districts of Jazan, Najran, Asir, Medina, Ta'if, and Hijaz). Muslims leaving Islam (apostasy) is punishable by death under the version of Islamic law adopted by the country, but, there had been no confirmed reports of executions for apostasy in recent years, but the possibility of extrajudicial executions still remains. According to a Gallup poll, 19% of Saudis are not religious and 5% are atheists.\n\nSaudi Arabia is an Islamic theocracy and the Government has declared the Qur'an and the Sunnah (tradition) of Muhammad to be the country’s Constitution. Freedom of religion is severely limited. Islam is the official religion. Under the law, children born to Muslim fathers are also Muslim, regardless of the country or the religious tradition in which they have been raised. The Government prohibits the public practice of other religions but the government generally allows private practice of non-Muslim religions.\nThe primary source of law in Saudi Arabia is based on Sharia (Islamic law), with Shari'a courts basing their judgments largely on a code derived from the Qur'an and the Sunnah. Additionally, traditional tribal law and custom remain significant.\n\nThe only national holidays observed in Saudi Arabia are the two Eids, Eid Al-Fitr at the end of Ramadan and Eid Al-Adha at the conclusion of the Hajj and the Saudi national day. Contrary practices, such as celebrating Maulid Al-Nabi (birthday of the Prophet Muhammad) and visits to the tombs of renowned Muslims, are forbidden, although enforcement was more relaxed in some communities than in others, and Shi'a were permitted to observe Ashura publicly in some communities.\n\nIslamic practice generally is limited to that of a school of the Sunni branch of Islam as interpreted by Muhammad ibn Abd al Wahhab, an 18th-century Arab religious scholar. Outside Saudi Arabia, this branch of Islam is often referred to as \"Wahhabi,\" a term the Saudis do not use.\n\nPractices contrary to this interpretation, such as celebration of Muhammad's birthday and visits to the tombs of renowned Muslims, are discouraged. The spreading of Muslim teachings not in conformity with the officially accepted interpretation of Islam is prohibited. Writers and other individuals who publicly criticize this interpretation, including both those who advocate a stricter interpretation and those who favor a more moderate interpretation than the government's, have reportedly been imprisoned and faced other reprisals.\n\nThe Ministry of Islamic Affairs supervises and finances the construction and maintenance of almost all mosques in the country, although over 30% of all mosques in Saudi Arabia are built and endowed by private persons. The Ministry pays the salaries of imams (prayer leaders) and others who work in the mosques. A governmental committee defines the qualifications of imams. The Committee to Promote Virtue and Prevent Vice (commonly called \"religious police\" or Mutawwa'in) is a government entity, and its chairman has ministerial status. The Committee sends out armed and unarmed people into the public to ensure that Saudi citizens and expatriates living in the kingdom follow the Islamic mores, at least in public.\n\nSaudi law prohibits alcoholic beverages and pork products in the country as they are considered to be against Islam. Those violating the law are handed harsh punishments. Drug trafficking is always punished by death.\n\nUnder Saudi law conversion by a Muslim to another religion is considered apostasy, a crime punishable by death. \nIn March 2014, the Saudi interior ministry issued a royal decree branding all atheists as terrorists, which defines terrorism as \"calling for atheist thought in any form, or calling into question the fundamentals of the Islamic religion on which this country is based.\"\n\nNon-Muslims are also strictly banned from the Holy Cities of Mecca and Medina. On highways, religious police officers may divert them or hand out a fine. In the cities themselves, road checks are randomly conducted.\n\nSaudi Arabia prohibits public non-Muslim religious activities. Non-Muslim worshipers risk arrest, imprisonment, lashing, deportation, and sometimes torture for engaging in overt religious activity that attracts official attention. In July 2012 the Bodu Bala Sena, an extremist Buddhist organization based in Sri Lanka, reported that Premanath Pereralage Thungasiri, a Sri Lankan Buddhist employed in Saudi Arabia, had been arrested for worshiping the Buddha in his employer's home, and that plans were being made to behead him. The Sri Lankan Embassy has rejected these reports. In the past, Sri Lankan officials have also rejected reports regarding labor conditions issued by New York-based Human Rights Watch.\n\nThe Government has stated publicly, including before the U.N. Committee on Human Rights in Geneva, that its policy is to protect the right of non-Muslims to worship privately. However, non-Muslim organizations have claimed that there are no explicit guidelines for distinguishing between public and private worship, such as the number of persons permitted to attend and the types of locations that are acceptable. Such lack of clarity, as well as instances of arbitrary enforcement by the authorities, obliges most non-Muslims to worship in such a manner as to avoid discovery. Those detained for non-Muslim worship almost always are deported by authorities after sometimes lengthy periods of arrest during investigation. In some cases, they also are sentenced to receive lashes prior to deportation.\n\nThe Government does not permit non-Muslim clergy to enter the country for the purpose of conducting religious services, although some come under other auspices and perform religious functions in secret. Such restrictions make it very difficult for most non-Muslims to maintain contact with clergymen and attend services. Catholics and Orthodox Christians, who require a priest on a regular basis to receive the sacraments required by their faith, particularly are affected.\n\nProselytizing by non-Muslims, including the distribution of non-Muslim religious materials such as Bibles, is illegal. The country was reported to have passed a law recommending the death penalty for anyone caught carrying or smuggling a Bible into the country, although the claim of the death penalty later was recalled by the original source of the information. Muslims or non-Muslims wearing religious symbols of any kind in public risk confrontation with the Mutawwa'in. Under the auspices of the Ministry of Islamic Affairs, approximately 50 \"Call and Guidance\" centers employing approximately 500 persons work to convert foreigners to Islam. Some non-Muslim foreigners convert to Islam during their stay in the country. The press often carries articles about such conversions, including testimonials. The press as well as government officials publicized the conversion of the Italian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Torquato Cardilli, in late 2001.\n\nThe Government requires noncitizen residents to carry a Saudi residence permit (Iqama) for identification in place of their passports.\nAmong other information, these contain a religious designation for \"Muslim\" or \"non-Muslim.\"\n\nMembers of the Shi’a minority are the subjects of officially sanctioned political and economic discrimination. The authorities permit the celebration of the Shi’a holiday of Ashura in the eastern province city of Qatif, provided that the celebrants do not undertake large, public marches or engage in self-flagellation (a traditional Shi’a practice). The celebrations are monitored by the police. In 2002 observance of Ashura took place without incident in Qatif. No other Ashura celebrations are permitted in the country, and many Shi’a travel to Qatif or to Bahrain to participate in Ashura celebrations. The Government continued to enforce other restrictions on the Shi’a community, such as banning Shi’a books\n\nShi’a have declined government offers to build state-supported mosques because they fear the Government would prohibit the incorporation and display of Shi’a motifs in any such mosques. The Government seldom permits private construction of Shi’a mosques. Virtually all existing mosques in al-Ahsa were unable to obtain licenses and faced the threat of closure at any time and in other parts of the country were not allowed to build Shia-specific mosques.\n\nMembers of the Shi’a minority are discriminated against in government employment, especially with respect to positions that relate to national security, such as in the military or in the Ministry of the Interior. The Government restricts employment of Shi’a in the oil and petrochemical industries. The Government also discriminates against Shi’a in higher education through unofficial restrictions on the number of Shi’a admitted to universities.\n\nUnder the provisions of Shari’a law as practiced in the country, judges may discount the testimony of people who are not practicing Muslims or who do not adhere to the official interpretation of Islam. Legal sources report that testimony by Shi’a is often ignored in courts of law or is deemed to have less weight than testimony by Sunnis. Sentencing under the legal system is not uniform. Laws and regulations state that defendants should be treated equally; however, under Shari’a as interpreted and applied in the country, crimes against Muslims may result in harsher penalties than those against non-Muslims. Information regarding government practices was generally incomplete because judicial proceedings usually were not publicized or were closed to the public, despite provisions in the criminal procedure law requiring court proceedings to be open.\n\nCustoms officials regularly open postal material and cargo to search for non-Muslim materials, such as Bibles and religious videotapes. Such materials are subject to confiscation.\n\nIslamic religious education is mandatory in public schools at all levels. All public school children receive religious instruction that conforms with the official version of Islam. Non-Muslim students in private schools are not required to study Islam. Private religious schools are permitted for non-Muslims or for Muslims adhering to unofficial interpretations of Islam.\n\nIn 2007, Saudi religious police detained Shiite pilgrims participating in the Hajj and Umrah pilgrimage, allegedly calling them \"infidels in Mecca and Medina\"\n\nAhmadis are persecuted in Saudi Arabia on an ongoing basis. Although there are many foreign workers and Saudi citizens belonging to the Ahmadiyya sect in Saudi Arabia, Ahmadis are officially banned from entering the country and from performing the Hajj and Umrah pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina.\n\nSaudi Arabia has criminal statutes making it illegal for a Muslim to change religion or to renounce Islam, which is defined as apostasy and punishable by death.\nOn 3 September 1992 Sadiq 'Abdul-Karim Malallah was publicly beheaded in Al-Qatif in Saudi Arabia's Eastern Province after being convicted of apostasy and blasphemy. Sadiq Malallah, a Shi'a Muslim from Saudi Arabia, was arrested in April 1988 and charged with throwing stones at a police patrol. He was reportedly held in solitary confinement for long periods during his first months in detention and tortured prior to his first appearance before a judge in July 1988. The judge reportedly asked him to convert from Shi'a Islam to Sunni Wahhabi Islam, and allegedly promised him a lighter sentence if he complied. After he refused to do so, he was taken to al-Mabahith al-'Amma (General Intelligence) Prison in Dammam where he was held until April 1990. He was then transferred to al-Mabahith al-'Amma Prison in Riyadh, where he remained until the date of his execution. Sadiq Malallah is believed to have been involved in efforts to secure improved rights for Saudi Arabia's Shi'a Muslim minority.\n\nIn 1994, Hadi Al-Mutif a teenager who was a Shi’a Ismaili Muslim from Najran in southwestern Saudi Arabia, made a remark that a court deemed blasphemous and was sentenced to death for apostasy. , he was still in prison, had alleged physical abuse and mistreatment during his years of incarceration, and had reportedly made numerous suicide attempts.\n\nIn 2012, Saudi poet and journalist Hamza Kashgari became the subject of a major controversy after being accused of insulting Muslim prophet Mohammad in three short messages (tweets) published on the Twitter online social networking service. King Abdullah ordered that Kashgari be arrested \"for crossing red lines and denigrating religious beliefs in God and His Prophet.\"\n\nAhmad Al Shamri from the town of Hafar al-Batin, was arrested on charges of atheism and blasphemy after allegedly use social media to state that he renounced Islam and the Prophet Mohammed, he was sentenced to death in February 2015.\n\nSaudi Arabia uses the death penalty for crimes of sorcery and witchcraft and claims that it is doing so in \"public interest\".\n\nSaudi Arabia's treatment of religious minorities has been described by both Saudis and non-Saudis as \"apartheid\" and \"religious apartheid\".\n\nTestifying before the U.S. Congressional Human Rights Caucus on June 4, 2002, in a briefing entitled \"Human Rights in Saudi Arabia: The Role of Women\", Ali Al-Ahmed, Director of the Saudi Institute, stated:\nSaudi Arabia is a glaring example of religious apartheid. The religious institutions from government clerics to judges, to religious curricula, and all religious instructions in media are restricted to the Wahhabi understanding of Islam, adhered to by less than 40% of the population. The Saudi government communized Islam, through its monopoly of both religious thoughts and practice. Wahhabi Islam is imposed and enforced on all Saudis regardless of their religious orientations. The Wahhabi sect does not tolerate other religious or ideological beliefs, Muslim or not. Religious symbols by Muslims, Christians, Jews and other believers are all banned. The Saudi embassy in Washington is a living example of religious apartheid. In its 50 years, there has not been a single non-Sunni Muslim diplomat in the embassy. The branch of Imam Mohamed Bin Saud University in Fairfax, Virginia instructs its students that Shia Islam is a Jewish conspiracy.\n\nIn 2003, Amir Taheri quoted a Shi'ite businessman from Dhahran as saying \"It is not normal that there are no Shi'ite army officers, ministers, governors, mayors and ambassadors in this kingdom. This form of religious apartheid is as intolerable as was apartheid based on race.\"\n\nIn 2007, Saudi religious police detained Shiite pilgrims participating in the Hajj and Umrah pilgrimage, allegedly calling them \"infidels in Mecca and Medina\".\n\nUntil March 1, 2004, the official government website stated that Jews were forbidden from entering the country. Prejudice against Jews is fairly high in the kingdom. While the webpage has been modified, no one who admits to be Jewish, on the visa paperwork or has an Israeli government stamp on his or her passport is allowed in the kingdom.\n\nAlan Dershowitz wrote in 2002, \"in Saudi Arabia apartheid is practiced against non-Muslims, with signs indicating that Muslims must go to certain areas and non-Muslims to others.\"\n\nOn December 14, 2005, Republican Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Democratic Representative Shelley Berkley introduced a bill in Congress urging American divestiture from Saudi Arabia, and giving as its rationale (among other things) \"Saudi Arabia is a country that practices religious apartheid and continuously subjugates its citizenry, both Muslim and non-Muslim, to a specific interpretation of Islam.\" Freedom House showed on its website, on a page tiled \"Religious apartheid in Saudi Arabia\", a picture of a sign showing Muslim-only and non-Muslim roads.\n\nIn 2007, there were news reports that according to Saudi policy for tourists it was not permissible to bring non-Muslim religious symbols and books into the kingdom as they were subject to confiscation, and that the U.S. State Department disputed this, saying that the regulation restrictions were no longer in place. The 2007 U.S The U.S State Department International Religious Freedom (IRF) report detailed several cases in which bibles were confiscated in Saudi Arabia, but said that there were fewer reports in 2007 of government officials confiscating religious materials than in previous years and no reports that customs officials had confiscated religious materials from travelers. In 2011, as in prior years, the Commission for the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice (CPVPV) and security forces of the Ministry of Interior (MOI) conducted some raids on private non-Muslim religious gatherings and sometimes confiscated the personal religious materials of non-Muslims. There were no reports in 2011 that customs officials confiscated religious materials from travelers, whether Muslims or non-Muslims. The 2013 IRF report also reports no confiscation of bibles, and stated:\n\nAccording to Freedom House's 2006 report:\n\nSome have argued that early Islamic scripture and law forbids forced conversion in theory.\n\nIn July 2012, two men who had evangelized a young woman who subsequently converted to Christianity were arrested in the Saudi Gulf city Al-Khabar, on charges of \"forcible conversion\". The girl's father had laid charges against the two men after he failed to convince the young woman to return home from Lebanon and abandon her new faith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5858798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5858798", "title": "Gurdwara Sahib of Fremont", "text": "Gurdwara Sahib of Fremont\n\nThe Gurdwara Sahib of Fremont (also commonly referred to as the Fremont Gurdwara or the Sikh Temple of Fremont) is a center of Sikh worship. Although it is located in Fremont, a city in southern Alameda County, it serves the greater San Francisco Bay Area consisting of the counties of Alameda, Santa Clara, San Mateo, San Francisco, Contra Costa, Marin and Solano. Officially, the Gurdwara's Supreme Council extends registered membership to all those who live in the Bay Area, as well as locations in the Central Valley such as San Joaquin and Stanislaus Counties. The Gurdwara is also one of the most influential in the entire world, garnering an income of over a million dollars every single year. SAT classes for High School Kids and Gurmat Camp is held in the Summer.\n\n"}
{"id": "30255914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30255914", "title": "Hardekar Manjappa", "text": "Hardekar Manjappa\n\nHardekar Manjappa (Kn:ಹರ್ಡೇಕರ ಮಂಜಪ್ಪ) (1886–1947) was a Kannadiga political thinker, social reformer, writer and journalist.\n\nManjappa was born in a poor family of Banavasi, a village of Uttara Kannada district. He studied in the nearby town of Sirsi and passed the Mulki (current primary education) final examination in 1903. He started his career as a teacher on a salary of seven rupees a month.\n\nManjappa and his brother were involved in the Swadeshi movement. The brothers knew Marathi and opened a weekly Dhanurdhari (journal/newsletter), (kn:’ಧನುರ್ಧಾರಿ’), on 2 September 1906 with more than 10,000 subscribers. He was slowly drawn to Saint-Reformist Basaveshwar's teachings. Basava's teachings included the elimination of casteism and the myriad evils and superstitions connected with it. Manjappa wrote several booklets to bring out the essential teachings of Basava and tried to encourage unity among his latter day followers. In 1913, he started celebrating Basava Jayanthi publicly.\n\nManjappa opened an ashram school in Almatti in 1927. He toured villages of North Karnataka to create awareness about Gandhiji’s constructive work. He discerned a number of similarities between the teachings of Basaveshwar and Gandhi and Manjappa became adept at expressing these teachings in easily understandable language in public speeches.\n\nManjappa delivered more than a thousand lectures on topics such as Satyagraha, patriotism and nationalism.\n\nIn 1924 with the help of his team 'Basweshara Seva Dala' he organized the Congress Party session in Belgaum. He had a leading role in the session and presented a book on Basaveshwara to Gandhi. \n\nManjappa was a freedom fighter who became popularly known as the \"Gandhi of Karnataka\".\n\nHe wrote more than 40 books including an autobiography. \n\nManjappa died on 3 January 1947.\n"}
{"id": "56859588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56859588", "title": "Hatif", "text": "Hatif\n\nHatif () is a voice, that can be heard but without one's discovering the body that made it.\n\nAl-Jahiz wrote, the Bedouin believed the Jinn could be used as transmitters of important messages. This message would just be heard by the receiver in realtime, without seeing the speaker. He stated the belief in 'Hatif' was widespread among the Bedouin and they would be perplexed about people, who exclude the possibility of Hatif. Al-Masudi focused on the psychological backgrounds of this phenomena and explained the Hatif would rather be a hallucination caused by loneliness.\n"}
{"id": "833811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=833811", "title": "Jack Mormon", "text": "Jack Mormon\n\nThe term Jack Mormon is a slang term originating in nineteenth-century America. It was originally used to describe a person who was not a baptized member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints but who was friendly to Church members and Mormonism, sympathized with them, and/or took an active interest in their belief system. Sometime in the early- to mid-twentieth century, however, the term began to refer to an individual deemed by adherents of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) to be an inactive or lapsed member of the LDS Church who, despite his personal religious viewpoint, maintained good relations with and positive feelings toward the LDS Church.\n\nOn April 18, 1845, the term \"Jack Mormon\" appeared in \"The Ottawa Free Trader\" to refer to J. B. Backenstos, the sheriff of Hancock County, who was \"friendly to the Mormons, though not one himself.\" This early published use of the term marks perhaps the earliest appearance of \"Jack Mormon\" in print, though it was followed soon by other instances in papers such as the \"New-York Daily Tribune\" and the \"Richmond Palladium\". Thomas C. Sharp, editor of the \"Warsaw Signal\", also coined the term \"Jack-Mason\" to refer to those who were sympathetic toward Freemasons in the Anti-Masonic political movement. These sympathetic non-Mormons included Nauvoo Justice of the Peace Daniel H. Wells, who later joined the church, and soldier and diplomat Thomas L. Kane. Kane was identified as a sympathetic Jack Mormon by US Army officials and the media, some of whom asserted that he had been secretly baptised into the LDS faith. However friendly toward the LDS people, Kane remained a Presbyterian all of his life.\n\nSeveral LDS historians believe that the term was used prior to Sharp's mention, and has ties to sympathetic Democrats in Jackson County, Missouri. Their belief is that the term originated in Missouri, during the Kirtland period of Latter Day Saint history, circa 1834. When Church members were expelled from Jackson County by a mob, many fled to Clay County, where local citizens, mostly Democrats, were sympathetic and friendly toward the Mormons. These citizens were pejoratively labeled \"Jack\" Mormons by the antagonistic citizens of Jackson County.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, it was also used as a description of members of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS Church) who broke from the church, in part, over belief in plural marriage.\n\nLDS Church membership was made up predominantly of liberal-leaning Democrats until the early 1900s, possibly due to anti-Mormon positions held by the Republican party during the latter half of the 19th Century. However, the church's conservative positions on social issues such as sexuality, drug use, traditional family values, and the role of religion in government caused large numbers of previously Democratic Latter-day Saints to shift to the Republican Party by the late 1970s. In the late 1970s and early 1980s the LDS church took a stand against the Equal Rights Amendment, and again increased the population's participation in the Republican party. At that time, many members who were registered Democrats were called \"Jack Mormons\", not as a negative term, but to distinguish them as traditional liberal Democrats. Because of the negative connotation of the term's modern context, this usage was short-lived. An alternative theory and contemporary usage holds that the term refers to a person who is a Mormon in \"name only\" (as in having a common Mormon surname) as though the \"Mormon\" label were nothing but a surname to this individual.\n\nThe term was made popular by heavyweight champion William Harrison \"Jack\" Dempsey, born in Manassa, Colorado, on June 24, 1895. During the 1920s the greatest American sports hero of the day was undoubtedly Babe Ruth; his closest rival was Dempsey, a tough heavyweight boxer from the mining West. Around 1880 an LDS Church missionary converted his parents and they moved to the Mormon village of Manassa, Colorado. While his father parted ways with the church, his mother remained a devoted member. Jack would write, \"I'm proud to be a Mormon. And ashamed to be the Jack Mormon that I am.\"\n\nThe term is now used to describe a baptized member of the LDS Church who rarely or never practices the religion, but is still friendly toward the church. Alternatively, it can be used for someone that is of Mormon descent but unbaptized or non-religious. Some Jack Mormons still support the goals and beliefs of the LDS Church, but for various reasons choose not to attend services or participate in church activities. They are also colloquially known as \"Cultural Mormons\", the LDS equivalent of a lapsed Catholic, a \"Christmas and Easter Christian\"/ \"Sunday Christian\"(or based on an adage \"Once a Baptist, Always a Baptist\") and a \"Yom Kippur Jew\" (or sometimes \"ethnic Jew\").\n\nSome modern LDS youth today use the term to describe a baptized member who chooses not to follow the ethical, moral and cultural guidelines common to Mormons. These guidelines include refraining from profanity and pre-marital sex. Other common cultural limitations include following the Word of Wisdom by consuming a healthy diet, seeking exercise, and avoiding the use of drugs, tobacco, alcohol, and coffee and tea. Often such individuals are noticeable for public consumption of tobacco or alcohol.\n\nIt is unclear how or why the meaning of the term changed to its current usage, which is almost the reverse of its original meaning. Preston Nibley, a mid-20th century LDS author who had a large impact on Mormon culture and folklore, mentioned the term in its modern context during the late 1940s and used it extensively in the 1950s. Today \"Jack Mormon\" is less commonly used, but using the term is not offensive when said in a self-joking or humorous sense.\n\nThe term \"Jack Mormon\" was used by author Edward Abbey in his novel \"The Monkey Wrench Gang\" to describe a character, Seldom Seen Smith, who was a Mormon and had many wives, but was not active in the LDS Church nor its belief system: \"Born by chance into membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (Mormons), Smith was on lifetime sabbatical from his religion. He was a jack Mormon. A jack Mormon is to a decent Mormon what a jackrabbit is to a cottontail.\"\n\nIn the play \"Angels in America\" by Tony Kushner, the character Harper Pitt identifies herself as a Jack Mormon, and postulates an alternate explanation for the origin of the term: \"Like jack rabbit...I ran.\"\n\nIn Episode 6 of Season 5 of the AMC television series \"Hell On Wheels\", the character known as Eva identifies herself as a Jack Mormon to the Brigham Young character.\n\nThe term is used in its modern meaning by Wallace Stegner in his 1979 novel \"Recapitulation\", set in Salt Lake City.\n\nJerry Joseph and the Jackmormons is a rock band from Portland, Oregon in the United States.\n\nJack Mormon Coffee Company is a Salt Lake-based coffee roaster, located in the Historic Avenues district.\n\nAmerican actor Jason Cloud premiered a self-produced play titled \"Jack Mormon\" in December 2017 in Vienna, Austria.\n"}
{"id": "39470979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39470979", "title": "Jain Center of Southern California", "text": "Jain Center of Southern California\n\nJain Center of Southern California (JCSC) was among the earliest Jain Centers in America. It was founded on September 15, 1979. JCSC played a major role in founding of JAINA, the umbrella Jain body of North America by hosting the first Jain convention in 1981.\n\nThe temple is both non-regional and non-sectarian and thus includes Jains of all sects speaking various languages, as a result of conscious decisions made during the founding.\n\nThe new facility includes a religious complex and a cultural complex and an educational complex. All these has been built at a total cost of about $20 million made possible by donations of the members.\n\nThe building houses the historic 1904 wooden Jain Temple structure carefully restored to its full glory. Initially constructed for the 1904 St. Louis World's Fair, it stood in Las Vegas for many years before being reassembled recently.\n\nIn 1971, Chitrabhanu, Jain scholar and organizer, visited Los Angeles and assisted in a pratikramana hosted by Lalit Shah. Assisted by Mahendra Khandhar, he and other Jains conceived the idea of organizing a Jain institution locally and at the national level. In late 1970, dozens of Jains from cities around the Southland would come to a tiny house in \nCerritos for prayer hosted by Manibhai Mehta. In 1979, 150 families participated in the founding of JCSC. It grew to about 700 families in 1996.\n\nInitially the JCSC members met in various community halls. In 1988, the first temple termed jain Bhavan, was constructed with a cost of 1988.\n\nToday, the local Jain community has thousands of members, a massive new temple. Some members live near Buena Park, but others come from as far away as Bakersfield.\n\nAt the founding, it was felt that the organization should be more than just a Jain shrine, and it should serve all of Southern California, not just Los Angeles. Thus, the name \"Jain Center of Southern California\" was selected.\n\nAlthough the majority of the members were Gujarati, after some discussion it was decided that the institution would serve all Jains. While formal documents would use English, lectures could be in English, Gujarati or Hindi. Although majority of the Jains belonged to the Murtipujak Shvetambara tradition, it was decided that the sectarian differences prevailing in India should not be imported. While a family should use its own sectarian tradition at home, its use in organizational affairs would be divisive. A reasonable balance will be kept in to respect all the sects. While the majority would prevail, the minority would be heard, respected and accommodated.\n\nIn 1981, a winter youth camp was organized in San Luis Obispo. Its success led to the formation of Jain center Youth Council as an auxiliary of JCSC. Initially it had 20 children and three teachers. For several years the classes were held at various residences, until the construction of Jain Bhavan in 1988, when the attendance had increased to about 70. By 2009, it had further increased to about 400 with 29 classes and 86 teachers. All the classes have been taught by volunteers.\n\nThe Jain Social Groups (JSC) of Los Angeles is a cultural group that is informally associated with JCSC. Founded in 1984, it contributes to charities, the community as well as the JainCenter.\n\nThe temple is located in Buena Park, California\n\n"}
{"id": "20316671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20316671", "title": "Jujutsu", "text": "Jujutsu\n\nJujutsu ( ; ), also known as Jujitsu or Jiu-Jitsu, is a Japanese martial art and a method of close combat for defeating an armed and armored opponent in which one uses either a short weapon or none.\n\n\"Jū\" can be translated to mean \"gentle, soft, supple, flexible, pliable, or yielding\". \"Jutsu\" can be translated to mean \"art\" or \"technique\" and represents manipulating the opponent's force against themselves rather than confronting it with one's own force. Jujutsu developed to combat the samurai of feudal Japan as a method for defeating an armed and armored opponent in which one uses no weapon, or only a short weapon. Because striking against an armored opponent proved ineffective, practitioners learned that the most efficient methods for neutralizing an enemy took the form of pins, joint locks, and throws. These techniques were developed around the principle of using an attacker's energy against him, rather than directly opposing it.\n\nThere are many variations of the art, which leads to a diversity of approaches. Jujutsu schools (\"ryū\") may utilize all forms of grappling techniques to some degree (i.e. throwing, trapping, joint locks, holds, gouging, biting, disengagements, striking, and kicking). In addition to jujutsu, many schools teach the use of weapons. Today, Jujutsu is practiced in both traditional and modern sports forms. Derived sport forms include the Olympic sport and martial art of judo, which was developed by Kanō Jigorō in the late 19th century from several traditional styles of jujutsu, and Brazilian jiu-jitsu, which was derived from earlier (pre–World War II) versions of Kodokan judo.\n\nJujutsu, the current standard spelling, is derived using the Hepburn romanization system. Before the first half of the 20th century, however, Jiu-Jitsu and Ju-Jitsu were preferred, even though the romanization of the second kanji as \"Jitsu\" is unfaithful to the standard Japanese pronunciation. Since Japanese martial arts first became widely known of in the West in that time period, these earlier spellings are still common in many places. Ju-Jitsu is still a common spelling in France, Canada, and the United Kingdom while Jiu-Jitsu is most widely used in Germany and Brazil.\n\nSome define jujutsu and similar arts rather narrowly as \"unarmed\" close combat systems used to defeat or control an enemy who is similarly unarmed. Basic methods of attack include hitting or striking, thrusting or punching, kicking, throwing, pinning or immobilizing, strangling, and joint locking. Great pains were also taken by the bushi (classic warriors) to develop effective methods of defense, including parrying or blocking strikes, thrusts and kicks, receiving throws or joint locking techniques (i.e., falling safely and knowing how to \"blend\" to neutralize a technique's effect), releasing oneself from an enemy's grasp, and changing or shifting one's position to evade or neutralize an attack. As jujutsu is a collective term, some schools or ryu adopted the principle of ju more than others.\n\nFrom a broader point of view, based on the curricula of many of the classical Japanese arts themselves, however, these arts may perhaps be more accurately defined as unarmed methods of dealing with an enemy who was armed, together with methods of using minor weapons such as the \"jutte\" (truncheon; also called jitter), \"tantō\" (knife), or \"Kaku shi buki\" (hidden weapons), such as the \"ryofundo kusari\" (weighted chain) or the \"bankokuchoki\" (a type of knuckle-duster), to defeat both armed or unarmed opponents.\n\nFurthermore, the term jujutsu was also sometimes used to refer to tactics for infighting used with the warrior's major weapons: katana or \"tachi\" (sword), \"yari\" (spear), \"naginata\" (glaive), \"jō\" (short staff), and \"bō\" (quarterstaff). These close combat methods were an important part of the different martial systems that were developed for use on the battlefield. They can be generally characterized as either Sengoku period (1467–1603) katchu bu Jutsu or yoroi kumiuchi (fighting with weapons or grappling while clad in armor), or Edo period (1603–1867) suhada bu Jutsu (fighting while dressed in the normal street clothing of the period, kimono and hakama).\n\nThe Chinese character 柔 (Mandarin: \"róu\"; ; ) is the same as the first one in 柔道/judo (Mandarin: \"róudào\"; Japanese: \"jūdō\"; Korean: \"Yudo\"). The Chinese character 術 (Mandarin: \"shù\"; Japanese: \"jutsu\"; Korean: \"sul\") is the same as the second one in 武術 (Mandarin: \"wǔshù\"; Japanese: \"bujutsu\"; Korean: \"musul\").\n\nJujutsu first began during the Sengoku period of the Muromachi period combining various Japanese martial arts which were used on the battlefield for close combat in situations where weapons were ineffective. In contrast to the neighbouring nations of China and Okinawa whose martial arts were centered around striking techniques, Japanese hand-to-hand combat forms focused heavily upon throwing, immobilizing, joint locks and choking as striking techniques were ineffective towards someone wearing armor on the battlefield. The original forms of jujutsu such as Takenouchi-ryū also extensively taught parrying and counterattacking long weapons such as swords or spears via a dagger or other small weapons.\n\nIn the early 17th century during the Edo period, jujutsu would continue to evolve due to the strict laws which were imposed by the Tokugawa shogunate to reduce war as influenced by the Chinese social philosophy of Neo-Confucianism which was obtained during Hideyoshi's invasions of Korea and spread throughout Japan via scholars such as Fujiwara Seika. During this new ideology, weapons and armor became unused decorative items, so hand-to-hand combat flourished as a form of self-defense and new techniques were created to adapt to the changing situation of unarmored opponents. This included the development of various striking techniques in jujutsu which expanded upon the limited striking previously found in jujutsu which targeted vital areas above the shoulders such as the eyes, throat, and back of the neck. However towards the 18th century the number of striking techniques was severely reduced as they were considered less effective and exert too much energy; instead striking in jujutsu primarily became used as a way to distract the opponent or to unbalance him in the lead up to a joint lock, strangle or throw.\n\nDuring the same period the numerous jujutsu schools would challenge each other to duels which became a popular pastime for warriors under a peaceful unified government, from these challenges randori was created to practice without risk of breaking the law and the various styles of each school evolved from combating each other without intention to kill.\n\nThe term \"jūjutsu\" was not coined until the 17th century, after which time it became a blanket term for a wide variety of grappling-related disciplines and techniques. Prior to that time, these skills had names such as , , , , , , and even the (as early as 1724, almost two centuries before Kanō Jigorō founded the modern art of Kodokan Judo).\n\nToday, the systems of unarmed combat that were developed and practiced during the Muromachi period (1333–1573) are referred to collectively as . At this period in history, the systems practiced were not systems of unarmed combat, but rather means for an unarmed or lightly armed warrior to fight a heavily armed and armored enemy on the battlefield. In battle, it was often impossible for a samurai to use his long sword or polearm, and would, therefore, be forced to rely on his short sword, dagger, or bare hands. When fully armored, the effective use of such \"minor\" weapons necessitated the employment of grappling skills.\n\nMethods of combat (as mentioned above) included striking (kicking and punching), throwing (body throws, joint lock throws, unbalance throws), restraining (pinning, strangling, grappling, wrestling) and weaponry. Defensive tactics included blocking, evading, off-balancing, blending and escaping. Minor weapons such as the \"tantō\" (knife), \"ryofundo kusari\" (weighted chain), \"kabuto wari\" (helmet breaker), and \"Kaku shi buki\" (secret or disguised weapons) were almost always included in Sengoku jujutsu.\n\nIn later times, other ko-ryū developed into systems more familiar to the practitioners of \"Nihon jujutsu\" commonly seen today. These are correctly classified as \"Edo jūjutsu\" (founded during the Edo period): they are generally designed to deal with opponents neither wearing armor nor in a battlefield environment. Most systems of Edo jujutsu include extensive use of \"atemi waza\" (vital-striking technique), which would be of little use against an armored opponent on a battlefield. They would, however, be quite valuable in confronting an enemy or opponent during peacetime dressed in normal street attire (referred to as \"suhada bujutsu\"). Occasionally, inconspicuous weapons such as tantō (daggers) or tessen (iron fans) were included in the curriculum of Edo jūjutsu.\n\nAnother seldom-seen historical side is a series of techniques originally included in both Sengoku and Edo jujutsu systems. Referred to as \"Hojo waza\" ( hojojutsu, \"Tori Nawa Jutsu\", \"nawa Jutsu\", \"hayanawa\" and others), it involves the use of a hojo cord, (sometimes the \"sageo\" or \"tasuke\") to restrain or strangle an attacker. These techniques have for the most part faded from use in modern times, but Tokyo police units still train in their use and continue to carry a hojo cord in addition to handcuffs. The very old Takenouchi-ryu is one of the better-recognized systems that continue extensive training in hojo waza. Since the establishment of the Meiji period with the abolishment of the Samurai and the wearing of swords, the ancient tradition of \"Yagyu Shingan Ryu\" (Sendai and Edo lines) has focused much towards the jujutsu (Yawara) contained in its syllabus.\n\nMany other legitimate Nihon jujutsu Ryu exist but are not considered koryu (ancient traditions). These are called either Gendai Jujutsu or modern jujutsu. Modern jujutsu traditions were founded after or towards the end of the Tokugawa period (1868) when more than 2000 schools (\"ryū\") of jūjutsu existed. Various traditional ryu and ryuha that are commonly thought of as koryu jujutsu are actually gendai jūjutsu. Although modern in formation, very few gendai jujutsu systems have direct historical links to ancient traditions and are incorrectly referred to as traditional martial systems or ryu. Their curriculum reflects an obvious bias towards Edo jūjutsu systems as opposed to the Sengoku jūjutsu systems. The improbability of confronting an armor-clad attacker is the reason for this bias.\n\nOver time, Gendai jujutsu has been embraced by law enforcement officials worldwide and continues to be the foundation for many specialized systems used by police. Perhaps the most famous of these specialized police systems is the Keisatsujutsu (police art) \"Taiho jutsu\" (arresting art) system formulated and employed by the Tokyo Police Department.\n\nJujutsu techniques have been the basis for many military unarmed combat techniques (including British/US/Russian special forces and SO1 police units) for many years. Since the early 1900s, every military service in the world has an unarmed combat course that has been founded on the principal teachings of Jujutsu.\n\nThere are many forms of sports jujutsu, the original and most popular being judo, now an Olympic sport. One of the most common is mixed-style competitions, where competitors apply a variety of strikes, throws, and holds to score points. There are also kata competitions, where competitors of the same style perform techniques and are judged on their performance. There are also freestyle competitions, where competitors take turns attacking each other, and the defender is judged on performance. Another more recent form of competition growing much more popular in Europe is the Random Attack form of competition, which is similar to Randori but more formalized.\n\nThe word Jujutsu can be broken down into two parts. \"Ju\" is a concept. The idea behind this meaning of Ju is \"to be gentle\", \"to give way\", \"to yield\", \"to blend\", \"to move out of harm's way\". \"Jutsu\" is the principle or \"the action\" part of Ju-Jutsu. In Japanese this word means science or art.\n\nJapanese jujutsu systems typically emphasize more on throwing, pinning, and joint-locking techniques as compared with martial arts such as karate, which rely more on striking techniques. Striking techniques were seen as less important in most older Japanese systems because of the protection of samurai body armor and were used as set-ups for their grappling techniques. However, many modern-day jujutsu schools include striking, both as a set-up for further techniques or as a stand-alone action.\n\nIn jujutsu, practitioners train in the use of many potentially fatal moves. However, because students mostly train in a non-competitive environment, the risk is minimized. Students are taught break falling skills to allow them to safely practice otherwise dangerous throws.\n\nAs jujutsu has so many facets, it has become the foundation for a variety of styles and derivations today. As each instructor incorporated new techniques and tactics into what was taught to him originally, he codified and developed his own ryu (school) or Federation to help other instructors, schools, and clubs. Some of these schools modified the source material enough that they no longer considered themselves a style of jujutsu.\n\nC. 1600 there were over 2000 Japanese jujutsu ryū, most with common characteristics. Specific technical characteristics varied from school to school. Many of the generalizations noted above do not hold true for some schools of jujutsu. Schools of Japanese jujutsu with long lineages include:\n\nSome examples of martial arts that have developed from or have been influenced by jujutsu are: aikido, bartitsu, hapkido, judo (and thence Brazilian jiu-jitsu and sambo), kajukenbo, krav maga, kapap, pangamot, and kenpo.\n\nSome schools also went on to influence modern Japanese karate. A major Japanese divergence occurred in 1905 when a number of jujutsu schools joined the Kodokan. The relationships between schools and styles can be complex. For example, the Wado-ryu school of karate is partially descended from Shindō Yōshin-ryū jujutsu, itself in turn influenced by Okinawan karate.\n\nAikido is a modern martial art developed in the 1910s and 1930s by Morihei Ueshiba from the system of Daitō-ryū Aiki-jūjutsu techniques to focus on the spiritual principle of harmony which distinguishes Budō from Bujutsu. Ueshiba was an accomplished student of Takeda Sokaku. Aikido is a systemic refinement of defensive techniques from Aiki-Jujutsu in ways that are intended to prevent harm to either the attacker or the defender. Aikido evolved much during Ueshiba's lifetime, so earlier styles (such as Yoshinkan) are more like the original Aiki-Jujutsu than ones (such as Ki-Aikido) that more resemble the techniques and philosophy that Ueshiba stressed towards the end of his life.\n\nJujutsu was first introduced to Europe in 1898 by Edward William Barton-Wright, who had studied Tenjin Shinyō-ryū and Shinden Fudo Ryu in Yokohama and Kobe. He also trained briefly at the Kodokan in Tokyo. Upon returning to England he folded the basics of all of these styles, as well as boxing, savate, and forms of stick fighting, into an eclectic self-defence system called Bartitsu.\n\nModern judo is the classic example of a sport that derived from jujutsu and became distinct. Many who study judo believe as Kanō did, that judo is not a sport but a self-defense system creating a pathway towards peace and universal harmony. Another layer removed, some popular arts had instructors who studied one of these jujutsu derivatives and later made their own derivative succeed in competition. This created an extensive family of martial arts and sports that can trace their lineage to jujutsu in some part.\n\nThe way an opponent is dealt with also depends on the teacher's philosophy with regard to combat. This translates also in different styles or schools of jujutsu. Because in jujutsu every conceivable technique is allowed (including biting, hair-pulling, eye-gouging, and striking the groin), there is unlimited choice of techniques. By contrast, judo emphasizes grappling and throwing, while karate emphasizes punching or kicking.\n\nNot all jujutsu was used in sporting contests, but the practical use in the samurai world ended circa 1890. Techniques like hair-pulling and eye-poking were and are not considered acceptable in sport, thus, they are excluded from judo competitions or randori. However, Judo did preserve the more lethal, dangerous techniques in its kata. The kata were intended to be practiced by students of all grades but now are mostly practiced formally as complete set-routines for performance, kata competition, and grading, rather than as individual self-defense techniques in class. However, judo retained the full set of choking and strangling techniques for its sporting form and all manner of joint locks. Even judo's pinning techniques have pain-generating, spine-and-rib-squeezing and smothering aspects. A submission induced by a legal pin is considered a legitimate win. Kanō viewed the safe \"contest\" aspect of judo as an important part of learning how to control an opponent's body in a real fight. Kanō always considered judo a form of, and a development of, jujutsu.\n\nA judo technique starts with gripping your opponent, followed by off-balancing them and using their momentum against them, and then applying the technique. Kuzushi (the art of breaking balance) is also used in jujutsu, where the opponent's attack is deflected using their momentum against them in order to arrest their movements then throw them or pin them with a technique— thus controlling the opponent. It is known in both systems, Kuzushi is essential in order to use as little energy as possible. Jujutsu differs from judo in a number of ways. In some circumstances, judoka generate kuzushi by striking one's opponent along his weak line. Other methods of generating kuzushi include grabbing, twisting, or poking areas of the body known as atemi points or pressure points (areas of the body where nerves are close to the skin – see kyusho-jitsu).\n\nBrazilian jiu-jitsu (BJJ) was developed after Mitsuyo Maeda brought judo to Brazil in 1914. Maeda agreed to teach the art to Luiz França and Carlos Gracie, son of his friend, businessman and politician Gastão Gracie. Luiz França went on to teach it to Oswaldo Fadda. After Carlos learned the art from Maeda, he passed his knowledge to his brothers Oswaldo, Gastão Jr., and George. Meanwhile, Hélio Gracie would peek in and practice the techniques, although he was told he was too young to practice. At the time, judo was still commonly called Kanō jiu-jitsu (from its founder Kanō Jigorō), which is why this derivative of judo is called \"Brazilian jiu-jitsu\" rather than \"Brazilian judo\". Its emphasis shifted to ground grappling because the Gracie family thought it was more efficient and much more practical. Carlos and Helio helped the development by promoting fights (mostly against practitioners of other martial arts), competitions and experimenting throughout decades of intense training. BJJ dominated the first large modern mixed martial arts competitions, causing the emerging field to adopt many of its practices. Less-practiced stand-up techniques in Gracie Jiu Jitsu remain from its judo and jujutsu heritage (knife defense, gun defense, throws, blocking, striking etc.).\n\nSambo is a Russian martial art and sport derived from Japanese Judo and traditional Central Asian styles of folk wrestling. One of Sambo's founders, Vasili Oschepkov, was one of the first foreigners to learn Judo in Japan and earned a second-degree black belt awarded by Kanō Jigorō himself. Modern sports Sambo is similar to sport Judo or sport Brazilian jiu-jitsu with differences including use of a jacket and shorts rather than a full keikogi, as well as, a higher occurrence of leglocks.\n\nAfter the transplantation of traditional Japanese jujutsu to the West, many of these more traditional styles underwent a process of adaptation at the hands of Western practitioners, molding the art of jujutsu to suit western culture in its myriad varieties. There are today many distinctly westernized styles of jujutsu, that stick to their Japanese roots to varying degrees.\n\nSome of the largest post-reformation (founded post-1905) jujutsu schools include (but are certainly not limited to these in that there are hundreds (possibly thousands), of new branches of \"jujutsu\"):\n\nThere are many types of sport jujutsu. One version of sport jujutsu is known as \"JJIF Rules Sport Ju-Jitsu\", organized by Ju-Jitsu International Federation (JJIF) and has been recognized as an official sport of the World Games.\n\nSport jujutsu comes in three main variants: \"Duo\" (self-defense demonstration) where both the tori (attacker) and the uke (defender) come from the same team and demonstrate self-defense techniques. In this variant, there is a special system named \"Random Attacks\", focusing on instilling quick reaction times against any given attack by defending and countering. The tori and the uke are also from the same team but here they don't know what the attack will be, which is given to the uke by the judges, without the tori's knowledge.\n\nThe second variant is the \"Fighting System\" (Freefighting) where competitors combine striking, grappling and submissions under rules which emphasise safety. Many of the potentially dangerous techniques such as scissor takedowns, necklocks and digital choking and locking are prohibited in Sport Jujutsu. There are a number of other styles of sport jujutsu with varying rules.\n\nThe third variant is the \"Japanese/Ne Waza\" (grappling) system in which competitors start standing up and work for a submission. Striking is not allowed.\n\nJapanese culture and religion have become intertwined into the martial arts. Buddhism, Shinto, Taoism and Confucian philosophy co-exist in Japan, and people generally mix and match to suit. This reflects the variety of outlook one finds in the different schools.\n\nJujutsu expresses the philosophy of yielding to an opponent's force rather than trying to oppose force with force. Manipulating an opponent's attack using his force and direction allows jujutsuka to control the balance of their opponent and hence prevent the opponent from resisting the counterattack.\n\n"}
{"id": "7176494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7176494", "title": "Karl Spiesberger", "text": "Karl Spiesberger\n\nKarl Spiesberger (29 October 1904 – 1 January 1992) was a German mystic, occultist, Germanic revivalist and Runosophist. He is most well known for his revivalism and usage of the Sidereal Pendulum for divination and dowsing and for his anti-racialist stance and revivalist usage of the Armanen Futharkh runic system after the second world war, removing its negative connotations. During his involvement with the Fraternitas Saturni Spiesberger was also known as Frater Eratus. Under this name he published several articles in the \"Blätter für angewandte okkulte Lebenskunst\".\n\nSpiesberger was the son of a gardener. Since his earliest youth Spiesberger was interested in occultism and hypnosis. In May 1932 he moved to Berlin to attain a career as an actor. In 1935 he met the then already well-known magician and occultist Gregor A. Gregorius, (who in 1928 founded the Lodge \"Fraternitas Saturni\") and came into close contact with him. Later he became one of its best-known members.\n\nHe worked intensively with the magical use of the Armanen Futharkh runes. When this came in conflict with the Nazi regime he turned to other occult themes, such as the magic of the spheres and the ancient books of magic (Grimoires).\n\nAfter the upheavals and repressions of the second world war, Spiesberger headed an esoteric study circle, where he met his future wife, Christa. As a member of the lodge founded by Gardner Fraternitas Saturni he was brother under his lodge name \"Eratus\" 1948 in Riesa.\n\nUnder high usage (hohem Einsatz), he wrote the lodge newspaper \"Leaves for applied occult art of living\" (\"Blätter für angewandte okkulte Lebenskunst\"), as well as 42 books as a special titled \"Inauguration\" (\"Einweihung\").\n\nWhen Gregorius reorganised the FS after the war in 1950 Spiesberger became a prominent teacher in the Berlin Lodge (Orient Berlin) of the FS. In the same time, he devoted himself to writing.\n\nGregory gave Eratus [words seem to be missing here] on 18 March 1957 which made eternal faithfulness unto gradus solos (master level), at the initiation of the lodge and the demiurge Saturn.\n\nIn 1960 he withdrew from the lodge for unknown reasons. During the early 1960s discord and envy in the Fraternitas Saturni ruled; however, Spiesberger continued his researches undaunted.\n\nDue to his knowledge and diligence, he expected to assume leadership of the lodge after the demise of Gregorius'; the married Gardner, however, put forward his long-term lover, Sorella Roxane for the Office of the Grand Master. Due to divergent views on spiritual issues Spiesberger left the lodge, but continued to devote his time to lectures and his literary activities.\n\nIn the 1980s, the animal lover reworked some of his works, which were reissued in new editions.\n\nHe died in the age of 87 in Berlin and is also buried there.\n\nSpiesberger is well known as the single most important person to revive Germanic mysticism after the second world war, including the Armanen Runes and the Pendulum.\n\nDue to the Nazi suppression and imprisonment of \"non-authorised\" or \"non-officially sanctioned\" runic/Germanic mystics and revivalists and their respective organisations during the Third Reich (see Nazi mysticism) the runes were so closely associated with the Nazis that the use and discussion of them in academic as well as esoteric circles was hampered by adverse public opinion. Those of the old rune magicians and occultists who had survived the war in Germany, slowly began to make their way back to their work, and new voices were also heard. The best known of these new voices was Spiesberger.\n\nAfter the war the Armanen system was revived, and \"reformed\" by Spiesberger. Spiesberger was a widely qualified, \"eclectic\" occultist who has authored books in the hermetic as well as the runic tradition. His two principle works on runic topics are \"Runenmagie: Handbuch der Runenkunde\" (1955) and \"Runenexerzitien für Jedermann\" (1958). In these books he synthesises the work of all the German runic magicians and experts who preceded him, within a pansophical framework. Although he eliminates all the racist and völkisch elements, he retains the Armanen system of runes, which by 1955 had become almost traditional in German circles.\n\nSpiesberger's works were always cast in the 18 rune Futharkh (the Armanen Runes) as originally envisioned by Guido von List and magically developed by Siegfried Adolf Kummer. Both were proponents of the Armanen Runes. What Spiesberger essentially tried to do was remove the \"racist\" aspects of the Armanic and Marbyan rune work and place the whole system in a pansophical, or eclectic, context. To Guido von List, Friedrich Bernhard Marby, Siegfried Adolf Kummer and Rudolf John Gorsleben, the runes represent the key to esoteric understanding. To Spiesberger, they were just one more tool to be used by any individual magician.\n\nAfter the war he also wrote \"Der erfolgreiche Pendel-Praktiker\" published in 1963. Although still far more readily available in its original German text, it is now also available in its 1989 English translation entitled \"Reveal the Power of the Pendulum. In this book about pendulum dowsing, he refers to the Odic force.\n\nLike most authors on esoteric or magical subjects, he presents a mixture of the old with some original innovations of his own. To some extent the innovations may have been drawn from the eclectic teachings of the \"Fraternitas Saturni\".\n\nKarl Spiesberger has written many works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15844507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15844507", "title": "Kay Kawād", "text": "Kay Kawād\n\nKai Kobad (also known as Kay Qobád) is a mythological figure of Iranian folklore and oral tradition. The 'Kai' stock epithet identifies Kobad as a Kayanian, a (semi-)mythological dynasty that in tradition Kai Kobad was also the founder of.\n\nIn the tradition preserved in the Shahnameh, Kai Kobad was a descendant of Manuchehr, and lived in the Alborz mountains, and was brought to the Estaxr (the capital) by Rustam. Under Nowzar, who loses the \"\" for oppressing the Iranians, the Pishdādi dynasty grows weak, and Iran falls to the Aniranian General Afrasiab, who kills Nowzar in battle. Then however, Kobad defeats Afrasiyab in personal combat, and for this feat and because he possesses the he is elected king by the Iranians, and the descendents of Nowzar—Zou, Garshasp and Gastham—pay him allegiance.\n\n"}
{"id": "92774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92774", "title": "Keelut", "text": "Keelut\n\nIn Inuit mythology, Keelut also known as Ke'lets, Qiqion, or Qiqirn, is an evil chthonic spirit who resembles a hairless dog. It is said to feast upon the dead, and is sometimes seen as a harbinger of death. Having hair only on its feet, the tracks of the Keelut are said to disappear, giving those the creature stalks no warning of its presence.\n"}
{"id": "5087615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5087615", "title": "Kunta family", "text": "Kunta family\n\nThe Kunta family (the \"Awlad Sidi al-Wafi\") is among the best-known examples of a lineage of Islamic scholarship with widespread influence throughout Mauritania, Senegambia, and other parts of the Western Sudan, and are closely associated with the expansion of Qadiriyya.\n\nThe Kunta shaykhs and the family or clan they represent, are an outgrowth of the Kounta Bedouin peoples (of both Arab and Berber origins) who spread throughout what is today northern Mali and southern Mauritania from the mid-sixteenth to the early eighteenth centuries (CE).\n\nThe family's history goes back to Sheikh Sidi Ahmad al-Bakka'i ( ; born in the region of the Noun river – d.1504 in Akka) who established a Qadiri \"zawiya\" (Sufi residence) in Walata. In the 16th century the family spread across the Sahara to Timbuktu, Agades, Bornu, Hausaland, and other places, and in the 18th century large numbers of Kunta moved to the region of the middle Niger where they established the village of Mabruk. Sidi Al-Mukhtar al-Kunti (1728–1811) united the Kunta factions by successful negotiation, and established an extensive confederation. Under his influence the Maliki school of Islamic law was reinvigorated and the Qadiriyyah order spread throughout Mauritania, the middle Niger region, Guinea, the Ivory Coast, Futa Toro, and Futa Jallon. Kunta colonies in the Senegambian region became centers of Muslim teaching.\n\nThe Kunta family has historically played a leading role in Timbuktu, and have been power brokers in many states of the upper Niger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14996894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14996894", "title": "Kyung-Chik Han", "text": "Kyung-Chik Han\n\nKyung-Chik Han (1902–2000) was a Korean pastor and church planter and the recipient of the 1992 Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion. \n\nBorn in Kan-ri, P'yŏngwŏn County, Korea, Han graduated from Soongsil University (B. S. 1925), the College of Emporia (B. A. 1926), and Princeton Theological Seminary (B. D. 1929). Ordained in 1933 by the Presbyterian Church of Korea, Han later founded Youngnak Presbyterian Church in 1945, which he pastored until 1973 and served as a Pastor Emeritus until his death. At the time that he received the Templeton Prize, membership of Youngnak Presbyterian Church had grown to 60,000 and the church had fostered about 500 sister churches worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "898348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898348", "title": "Kōmeitō (1962–98)", "text": "Kōmeitō (1962–98)\n\nThe Kōmeitō (), also known as Clean Government Party (CGP), was a political party in Japan.\n\nThe party was established in January 1962 as the Kōmei Seiji Renmi (\"Clean Government League\") by the Sōka Gakkai, an organization that promoted Nichiren Buddhism. Running as independents, three members of the Sōka Gakkai had been elected to the House of Councillors in the 1956 elections, with the 1959 elections seeing nine members elected. It also had several members elected to local assemblies. In 1957, a group of Young Men's Division members campaigning for a Gakkai candidate in an Osaka House of Councillors by-election were arrested for distributing money, cigarettes, and caramels at supporters' residences, in violation of elections law, and on July 3 of that year, at the beginning of an event memorialized as the \"Osaka Incident,\" Daisaku Ikeda was arrested in Osaka. He was taken into custody in his capacity as Sōka Gakkai's Youth Division Chief of Staff for overseeing activities that constituted violations of elections law. He spent two weeks in jail and appeared in court forty-eight times before he was cleared of all charges in January 1962.\n\nAmongst its policies, the new party supported the 1947 constitution and opposed nuclear weapons. Headed by Harashima Kōji. In the July 1962 elections the new party won nine seats in the House of Councillors.\n\nOn 17 November 1964 the party was renamed Kōmeitō. In 1968, fourteen of its members were convicted of forging absentee ballots in Shinjuku, and eight were sentenced to prison for electoral fraud. In the 1960s it was widely criticized for violating the separation of church and state, and in February 1970 all three major Japanese newspapers printed editorials demanding that the party reorganize. It eventually broke apart based on promises to segregate from Soka Gakkai.\n\nIn the 1980s \"Akahata\" discovered that many Soka Gakkai members were rewarding acquaintances with presents in return for Komeito votes, and that Okinawa residents had changed their addresses to elect Komeito politicians.\nIn 1969, the Kōmeitō became the third political party in Japan.\n\nIt was usually supportive of the Japan Socialist Party, and opposed the LDP (Liberal Democratic Party), the major ruling party at that time.\n\nKōmeitō did quite well, and in 1993, when the LDP was for the first time declared an opposition party, the Kōmeitō became one of the ruling parties, headed by the liberal Japan New Party, but which also included the Democratic Socialist Party, Japan Renewal Party, the New Party Sakigake, and the Japan Socialist Party. In 1994, the latter two parties left the coalition, and in July they took over the rule, making another coalition with the LDP. The Kōmeitō was again thrown into opposition.\n\nOn December 5, 1994, The Kōmeitō split into two parties. The Lower House chairs and some of Upper House chairs formed Kōmeitō New Party, and five days later, they joined into the New Frontier Party. The others, i.e. local assembly members and the rest of the Upper House chairs, formed Kōmei and independent friend of the New Frontier Party.\n\nIn 1998, however, the New Frontier Party dissolved, and former Kōmeitō members formed New Peace Party and Reform Club. They merged with Kōmei in the same year and then became known as the NKP (New Kōmeitō Party). The NKP adopted a more conservative agenda than the former Kōmeitō and in 1999 they supported the ruling party, the LDP.\n\n"}
{"id": "11044164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11044164", "title": "Lauri Honko", "text": "Lauri Honko\n\nLauri Olavi Honko (born in Hanko 6 March 1932, died in Turku 15 July 2002) was a professor of folklore studies and comparative religion.\n\nHonko was a disciple of Martti Haavio. The title of his doctoral dissertation was \"Krankheitsprojektile. Untersuchung über eine urtümliche Krankheitserklärung\" (Disease Projectiles: A Study of the Primitive Explanation of Disease, 1959) at the University of Helsinki and developed a special typology for the analysis of ethnographic data in folk medicine. Here he put the Finnish folk tradition explanation of illness and healing into a global perspective and found distinct features and differences in geographical regions.\n\nHonko’s seminal work, \"Geisterglaube in Ingermanland\" (Belief in Spirits in Ingria) was very influential for Finnish folklorists because it set apart the old and new science of religion. In this work he used new insights from social anthropology, phenomenology of religion, social psychology and sociology. Honko also interpreted the experience of guardian spirits in Ingrian peasant society by developing a genre-analytic and role-model theory.\nIn \"Geisterglaube in Ingermanland\" he classified rituals into three main categories: rites of passage, calendrical rites, and crisis rites. Honko even stresses the importance of analyzing rituals within cultural context and the need to differentiate between small-scale and complex systems of belief.\n\nIn 1961 Honko became an assistant professor in folklore studies and comparative religion. In 1963 he was an associate professor in both subjects at the University of Turku. In 1971 he received a special seat. In 1996 he was named professor emeritus.\n\nLauri Honko also became the head of the Nordic Institute of Folklore (NIF) in Turku in 1972. From 1974 to 1989 he was president of the International Society for Folk Narrative Research and then also the editor of \"Folklore Fellows’ Communications\". He was the editor of \"Temenos\" from 1965 to 1969 and from 1975 to 1990, of \"NIF Newsletters\" from 1972 onwards, and of \"Studia Fennica\" from 1981 to 1989.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1970s, Honko compared popular traditions and developed a research methodology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2083901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2083901", "title": "Lawrence Kadoorie, Baron Kadoorie", "text": "Lawrence Kadoorie, Baron Kadoorie\n\nLawrence Kadoorie, Baron Kadoorie, CBE (2 June 1899 – 25 August 1993) was a Hong Kong industrialist, hotelier, and philanthropist.\n\nLawrence Kadoorie was born at the peak of the British Empire's power. He was the first man born in Hong Kong to be named to the British House of Lords.\n\nKadoorie was born to a Mizrahi Jewish family, the older of sons of Laura (née Mocatta) and Sir Elly Kadoorie. His brother, Horace Kadoorie (1902–1995), would become his partner in the family business.\n\nHis uncle was Sir Ellis Kadoorie. His family were originally Mizrahi Jews from Baghdad who later migrated to Bombay (Mumbai), India in the mid-eighteenth century. He was educated at Clifton College. Kadoorie and his brother Sir Horace Kadoorie worked for Victor Sassoon during the 1920s and 1930s, and managed his famous Shanghai hotel. They also worked for their father the famous industrialist Sir Elly Kadoorie.\n\nKadoorie was made a CBE in 1970, knighted in 1974 and created Baron Kadoorie, of Kowloon in Hong Kong and of the City of Westminster on 22 September 1981 for his philanthropic work throughout the UK and Hong Kong. Kadoorie and his brother, Horace, both received the Magsaysay Award for public service in 1962. They were also conferred Chev.Leg.Hon. by the French government. He also gave money to the Kahal Kadosh Mekor Haim (Holy Community Fountain of Life) to finish the construction of the Kadoorie Synagogue for the Anusim/Marranos in Oporto, Portugal.\n\nIn 1938, Kadoorie married Muriel Gubbay, the daughter of Hebrew scholar David Sassoon Gubbay. They had two children: a son, Michael Kadoorie (heir to the family business) and a daughter Rita (who married a Scottish accountant). He died in 1993 and is buried in the Jewish Cemetery in Happy Valley, Hong Kong. His widow, Muriel, died in Hong Kong on 5 December 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "7587390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7587390", "title": "Leonotis nepetifolia", "text": "Leonotis nepetifolia\n\nLeonotis nepetifolia, (also known as klip dagga, Christmas candlestick, or lion's ear), is a species of plant in the genus \"Leonotis\" and the family Lamiaceae (mint). It is native to tropical Africa and southern India. It can also be found growing abundantly in much of Latin America and the West Indies. It grows to a height of and has whorls of striking lipped flowers, that are most commonly orange, but can vary to red, white, and purple. It has drooping dark green, very soft serrated leaves that can grow up to wide. Sunbirds and ants are attracted to the flowers. It has been found growing on road sides, rubbish heaps or waste land.\n\n\n\"Leonotis nepetifolia\" (\"klip dagga\") is related to \"L. leonurus\" (\"wild dagga\" or \"lion's tail\".) The most noticeable difference between the two is the leaf shape. \"L. nepetifolia\" leaves are cordate with serrated edges, except the top pair which are lanceolate with serrated edges, as pictured in taxonomy box. The leaves are all lanceolate with serrated edges on \"L. leonurus\".\n\n\"Leonotis nepetifolia\" is known in Trinidad as \"shandilay\" and the leaves are brewed as a tea for fever, coughs, womb prolapse and malaria.\n\n"}
{"id": "18063571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18063571", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Romania", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Romania\n\nUnlike most European countries, the Catholic Church in Romania comprises in a single national episcopal conference both Latin and two Eastern Catholic churches (one of which being nation-specific):\n\nThere is also an Apostolic nunciature as papal diplomatic representation(embassy-level) in the national capital Bucarest, into which is also vested the Apostolic nunciature to neighboring Moldova (Ex-Soviet, ethnic Romanians).\n\n\n\n\n\nOnly the Latin Titular archbishopric (non-Metropolitan) Constantia in Scythia\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58841878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58841878", "title": "List of Chinese mythology", "text": "List of Chinese mythology\n\nThis article is a list of topics in Chinese mythology. Chinese mythology is mythology that has been passed down in oral form or recorded in literature in the geographic area now known as \"China\". Chinese mythology includes many varied myths from regional and cultural traditions. Chinese mythology is far from monolithic, not being an integrated system, even among just Han people. Chinese mythology is encountered in the traditions of various classes of people, geographic regions, historical periods including the present, and from various ethnic groups. China is the home of many mythological traditions, including that of Han Chinese people, their Huaxia predecessors, Tibetan mythology, Turkic mythology, Korean mythology, and many others. However, the study of Chinese mythology tends to focus upon material in Chinese language. Much of the mythology involves exciting stories full of fantastic people and beings, the use of magical powers, often taking place in an exotic mythological place or time. Like many mythologies, Chinese mythology has in the past been believed to be, at least in part, a factual recording of history. Along with Chinese folklore, Chinese mythology forms an important part of Chinese folk religion (Yang \"et al\" 2005, 4). Many stories regarding characters and events of the distant past have a double tradition: ones which present a more historicized or euhemerized version and ones which presents a more mythological version (Yang \"et al\" 2005, 12–13). Many myths involve the creation and cosmology of the universe and its deities and inhabitants. Some mythology involves creation myths, the origin of things, people and culture. Some involve the origin of the Chinese state. Some myths present a chronology of prehistoric times, many of these involve a culture hero who taught people how to build houses, or cook, or write, or was the ancestor of an ethnic group or dynastic family. Mythology is intimately related to ritual. Many myths are oral associations with ritual acts, such as dances, ceremonies, and sacrifices.\n\nSome myths survive in theatrical or literary formats as plays or novels.\n\nThe concept of a principal or presiding deity has fluctuated over time in Chinese mythology. Examples include:\n\nDuring or following the age of Nüwa and Fuxi came the age of the Three August Ones and Five Emperors. These legendary rulers ruled between c. 2850 BCE to 2205 BCE, before the Xia dynasty. These rulers are generally regarded as morally upright and benevolent, examples to be emulated by latter-day kings and emperors. The list of names comprising the Three August Ones and Five Emperors vary widely among sources. One widely circulated and popular version is:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30485387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30485387", "title": "List of films of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints", "text": "List of films of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints\n\nThis list of films of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints includes the non-commercial motion pictures commissioned by or officially produced by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Feature-length films are typically premiered and exclusively shown at the Joseph Smith Memorial Building's Legacy Theatre in downtown Salt Lake City, Utah, before being released to Temple Visitors' Centers, and eventually home use. In the 1970s, the church also commissioned Brigham Young University to produce short films for use in the Church Educational System. These films, shown mostly in the seminaries and institutes of religion, teach religious principles, church history, and general kindness. Released on VHS (and increasingly on DVD), they have become popular home entertainment. A wide variety of these films are now available through Brigham Young University's Creative Works Office.\n\nThese films differ from those of LDS cinema, which are produced without official church involvement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14761616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14761616", "title": "Louis-Onésime Loranger", "text": "Louis-Onésime Loranger\n\nLouis-Onésime Loranger (April 7, 1837 – August 18, 1917) was a Canadian lawyer, politician, and judge.\n\nBorn in Yamachiche, Lower Canada, the son of Joseph Loranger and Marie-Louise Dugal, Loranger was educated in Montreal at the Petit Séminaire de Montréal and studied law at the Collège Sainte-Marie. He was called to the Bar of Lower Canada in 1858 and practiced law with his brothers, Thomas-Jean-Jacques and Jean-Marie. He was made a Queen's Counsel in 1881.\n\nHe was first elected to the Legislative Assembly of Quebec for the electoral district of Laval in the 1875 election. A Conservative, he was re-elected in 1881. From 1879 to 1882, he was the attorney general in the cabinet of Premier Joseph-Adolphe Chapleau. He was also a member of the Montreal City Council for the ward of Saint-Louis from 1871 to 1877. He was president of the Saint-Jean-Baptiste Society of Montreal from 1895 to 1899.\n\nIn 1882, he was appointed a judge in the Superior Court of Quebec for the district of Montreal. He retired in 1909.\n\n"}
{"id": "43854073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43854073", "title": "Metropolitan of Kiev and all Rus'", "text": "Metropolitan of Kiev and all Rus'\n\nMetropolitan of Kiev and all Rus' (, ) was a title of the Eastern Orthodox metropolitan bishops of the Kiev Metropolis under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople that existed in 988–1596 and later between 1620 and 1686.\n\nInitially the metropolis of Kiev was located in Kiev, the capital of Kievan Rus, after the invasion of Mongols, its seat was split between the Grand Duchy of Moscow in Moscow and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in Vilnius.\n\nWith the appointment of Gregory II Bulgarian in 1458, the title was changed to Metropolitan of Kiev, Galicia and all Rus' () uniting both metropolis of Kiev and Halych (existed in the 14th century). The Grand Duchy of Moscow decided to appoint their own metropolitans without approval of the Ecumenical Patriarch. After 1458 all Muscovite metropolitans were titled as Metropolitans of Moscow and all Rus'.\n\nThe last Metropolitan of Kiev, Galicia and all Rus' Michael Rohoza accepted the Union of Brest in 1596 and became a Major Archbishop of Kiev, Galicia and all Rus' of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church.\n\nIn 1620 the title and the Orthodox metroplis were restored and granted to Job Boretsky who became the \"Exarch\" of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople. The last Exarch of the Ecumenical throne in Kiev, approved by the Ecumenical Patriarch in 1676, was Metropolitan . His successor, Gedeon Chetvertinsky ordained by Patriarch Joachim of Moscow in 1685, was the following year transferred into the jurisdiction of the Patriarchate of Moscow. This resulted in a large Council that convened in Kiev declaring the election invalid and the ordination illicit and a 'cannonical offense' because it occurred without the knowledge of the Ecumenical Patriarch. Patriarch Dositheos of Jerusalem, who acted as a negotiator between Constantinople and Moscow proved critical, declared to his counterpart and Russian Ambassador “to grant...Kiev in trust (ἐπιτροπικῶς) to the Moscovite due to the prevailing tyranny, until the day comes for divine reckoning”. \n\n"}
{"id": "25739942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25739942", "title": "Mitake-kyo", "text": "Mitake-kyo\n\nMitake-kyo (Ontake-kyo) is a Japanese Shintoist grouping. Its sacred mountain is Mount Ontake. It was founded by Shimoyama Osuke. It had 3 million members in 1930. The numbers have fallen below one million. Its headquarters has been moved from Tokyo to Futana-cho in the city of Nara.\n"}
{"id": "1860469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860469", "title": "Oomancy", "text": "Oomancy\n\nOomancy (sometimes ovomancy or ooscopy) refers to divination by eggs. An example would be the oracular reading (i.e., scrying) of the shapes that a separated egg white forms when dropped into hot water. This appears to be similar to methods of molten lead divination, which ascribe meaning to the shapes and forms into which hot lead solidifies.\n\nAlong with other young girls of Salem Village, Elizabeth Parris and Abigail Williams are known to have to played at reading omens by means of an egg and a mirror (or \"Venus glass\"): an apparently similar system of egg divination.\n\n"}
{"id": "18157622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18157622", "title": "Practical atheism", "text": "Practical atheism\n\nPractical atheism is the view that one should live their life with disregard towards a god. Practical atheism does not reject or accept claims about god. Practical atheism has been mistaken with apatheism and pragmatic atheism. Apatheism sees the god question as irrelevant while practical atheism does not. Since practical atheism doesn't address the god claim one can be both a theist and a practical atheist.\n\nPhilosopher, Zofia Zdybicka lists four forms of practical atheism.\n\nHistorically, practical atheism was considered by some people to be associated with moral failure, willful ignorance, and impiety. Those considered practical atheists were said to behave as though God, ethics, and social responsibility did not exist.\n\nAccording to the French Catholic philosopher Étienne Borne, \"Practical atheism is not the denial of the existence of God, but complete godlessness of action; it is a moral evil, implying not the denial of the absolute validity of the moral law but simply rebellion against that law.\"\nIn response to Voltaire, French philosopher Denis Diderot wrote: \"It is very important not to mistake hemlock for parsley; but not at all so to believe or not in God.\"\n"}
{"id": "24698454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24698454", "title": "Religion News Service", "text": "Religion News Service\n\nReligion News Service (RNS) is a news agency covering religion, ethics, spirituality and moral issues. RNS employs a network of correspondents providing news and information on all faiths and religious movements to newspapers, magazines, broadcast organizations and religious publications. It also features commentary by Richard Mouw, Thomas J. Reese, Jana Riess, Mark Silk and other columnists, and offers a press release distribution service. RNS wire reports are distributed to secular and faith-based news outlets alike, including The Washington Post, \"USA Today\", \"Christian Century\" and \"Sojourners.\"\n\nReligion News Service was founded in 1934 by journalist Louis Minsky as an independent, nonprofit affiliate of National Conference of Christians and Jews. It is a secular news agency that does not endorse or promote any particular creed, faith or tradition. The \"United Methodist Reporter\" bought RNS in 1983, and in 1994, Newhouse News Service, a major publisher of daily newspapers and magazines, purchased it and changed its name to Religion News Service. In 2011, RNS was sold to the Religion Newswriters Foundation, a nonprofit affiliate of the Religion Newswriters Association.\n\nRNS is owned by Religion News LLC, a nonprofit, limited-liability corporation led by CEO and publisher Thomas Gallagher, and based at the University of Missouri School of Journalism. RNS is governed by a Board of Managers, including Jerry Pattengale, in partnership with Religion News Foundation. \n\nIn April 2015, the Catholic News Agency (CNA) published an article disclosing that RNS had received a grant of $120,000 from the Arcus Foundation, an LGBT–rights advocacy organization, with the stated intent “to recruit and equip LGBT supportive leaders and advocates to counter rejection and antagonism within traditionally conservative Christian churches.” The CNA story questioned whether the grant had biased RNS's coverage of traditional religion, specifically citing an RNS article on Cardinal Raymond Burke. In response to the CNA report, RNS's then editor-in-chief Kevin Eckstrom denied that the Arcus grant had any influence over editorial decisions at RNS and noted that the grant language is “Arcus’ description of their funding, not ours.” The grant proposal to the Arcus Foundation had stressed only the need to “increase and improve domestic and international coverage of how religion affects a diverse range of LGBT communities.”\n"}
{"id": "50482902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50482902", "title": "Religion in the Falkland Islands", "text": "Religion in the Falkland Islands\n\nReligion on the Falkland Islands is predominantly Christianity, of which the primary denominations are Church of England, Roman Catholic, United Free Church, and Lutheran. Smaller numbers are of Jehovah's Witnesses, Seventh-day Adventists and Greek Orthodox are also to be found, with the latter being due to Greek fishermen passing through. There is also a Bahá'í congregation. In the 2006 census most islanders identified themselves as Christian (67.2 percent), followed by those who refused to answer or had no religious affiliation (31.5 percent). The remaining 1.3 percent (39 people) were adherents of other faiths.\n\nThe Anglican Parish of the Falkland Islands is an extra-provincial church in the Anglican Communion. The principal Anglican place of worship in the Falkland Islands is Christ Church Cathedral in Stanley.\n\nThere are over 230 Roman Catholics in the Falkland Islands, approximately 10% of the total population. There are no dioceses in the islands, instead they form an apostolic prefecture which was erected in January 1952. St Mary's Catholic Church in Ross Road in Stanley is the sole Catholic Church on the Falkland Islands. Outside of Stanley, the Eucharist is celebrated at RAF Mount Pleasant.\n\nThe United Free Church in the Falkland Islands has five congregations with 120 active members. The Tabernacle, one\nof the five congregations is in Stanley and it was established in 1899.\n\n"}
{"id": "3715511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3715511", "title": "Sacred caves of Crete", "text": "Sacred caves of Crete\n\nSacred caves and peak sanctuaries are characteristic holy places of ancient Minoan Crete. Most scholars agree that sacred caves were used by the Minoans for religious rites. While all peak sanctuaries have clay human figurines, only Idaeon and Psychro have them among the sacred caves. Clay body parts, also called votive body parts, common among peak sanctuaries, appear in no caves with the exception of a bronze leg in Psychro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "622068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622068", "title": "Sathya Sai Organization", "text": "Sathya Sai Organization\n\nThe Sathya Sai Seva Organization (known as Sathya Sai International Organization (SSIO)) is a non-denominational organisation that was founded in the 1960s by Sathya Sai Baba, an Indian mystic and religious figure. The first Sai Centers were started in India under the name Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi. The Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organization originated \"to enable its members to undertake service activities as a means to spiritual advancement.\" According to the Sathya Sai Organization, there are an estimated 1,200 Sathya Sai Baba Centers in 130 countries worldwide. Its current chairperson is Dr Narendranath Reddy.\n\n\"The main objective of the Sathya Sai Organization,\" as Sathya Sai Baba states, \"is to help man recognize the divinity that is inherent in him. So, your duty is to emphasize the One, to experience the One in all you do or speak. Do not give any importance to differences of religion or sect or status or color. Have the feeling of one-ness permeate every act of yours. Only those who do so have a place in this Organization; the rest can withdraw.\"\n\nThe principal objectives of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation are:\n\n1. To help the individual \n\n2. To ensure that all human relations are governed by the principles of Satya (Truth), Dharma (Right Conduct), Shanthi (Peace), Prema (Love) and Ahimsa (Non-violence).\n\n3. To make devotees more sincere and dedicated in the practice of their respective religions by understanding properly the true spirit of their religion.\n\nSathya Sai Baba further explains the quality of service expected of the organization. \"The Organisations named after Me are not to be used for publicising My Name, or creating a new cult around My worship. They must try to spread interest in japam (recitation of God's Name), dhyaanam (meditation) and other sadhanas (spiritual practices), which lead man Godward; they must demonstrate the joy derivable from bhajan (devotional group singing) and Naamasmarana (remembering God's Name), the Shanthi (peace) that one can draw from Sathsang (good company).\nThey must render seva (service) to the helpless, the sick, the distressed, the illiterate and the needy. Their seva should not be exhibitionistic; it must seek no reward, not even gratitude or thanks from the recipients. Seva is sadhana (spiritual exercise), not a pastime of the rich and well placed. Each one must realize this truth.\"\n\nThe SSIO hosts a number of various institutes, trusts and associations. They include:\n\nSri Sathya Sai Central Trust\n\nSri Sathya Sai Sadhana Trust -Publications Division- \n\nRadio Sai\n\nEducational Institutions\n\nSri Sathya Sai Medical Trust\n\nAshrams \n\nService, Devotion and Education Wings\n\nDrinking Water Supply Projects\n\n\nThe charter of the organization says that every member should undertake sadhana (spiritual discipline) as an integral part of daily life and abide by the following nine codes of conduct :\n\nThe SSIO is ordered into 9 zones. A number of regions are then created in each zone. For example, both the US and Canada are in zone 1, however the United States is in region 11 while Canada is in region 13. Each region then branches out to individual centers\n\nThe center structure operates with the Service, Youth, Education, Ladies and Spiritual coordinators addressing the center President directly, who in turn reports to the Regional coordinator. \nThe President of each center has with him/her a secretary, vice president and treasurer.\n\nThe regional organizational structure (using region 13 as an example) consists of regional coordinators (from various geographic parts of the region) reporting to a Council Chairperson. Independent of the regional coordinators, the Service, Youth, Publications, Education and Spiritual coordinators report directly to the Council Chairperson. The Council Chairperson then communicates with the Central Coordinator of that region.\n\n"}
{"id": "44456942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44456942", "title": "Sebelio Peralta Álvarez", "text": "Sebelio Peralta Álvarez\n\nSebelio Peralta Álvarez (September 19, 1939 – November 19, 2014) was a Roman Catholic bishop.\n\nOrdained to the priesthood in 1964, Peralta Álvarez was named auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Villarrica, Paraguay in 1979. He was then named bishop of the Diocese of Villerrica del Espíritu Santo in 1990. In 2008, he was named bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Lorenzo.\n"}
{"id": "50485393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50485393", "title": "Sha'baniyah Munajat", "text": "Sha'baniyah Munajat\n\nThe Sha'baniyah Munajat () is a supplication attributed to Ali ibn Abi Talib, the first Shia Imam, that invoked in the Sha'ban month. The supplication was narrated by Ibn Khalawayh and is mentioned by Abbas Qumi in Mafatih al-Janan, Sayyed Ibn Tawus in Eqbal al-a’mal, and Muhammad Baqir Majlesi in Bihar al-Anwar. In the Mafatih al-Janan, the Munajat mentioned at Sha'ban month prayers section. This supplication known as a monologue of Ali ibn Abi Talib with his God, Allah. In the supplication, Ali emphasizes on God's generosity and called Allah as creator and infinite of human. Ali advised to recite the Du'a with presence of heart.\n\nAll Imams after Ali recited this Munajat and Ali ibn Husayn Zayn al-Abidin, fourth Shia Imam, invoked it every day in the Sha'ban month when sun set and also night of 15th Sha'ban, night of Muhammad al-Mahdi's birth.\n\nRuhollah Khomeini believe which if someone follows Sha'baniyah Du'a and thinks about it, can reach the high position in the life.\n"}
{"id": "53152485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53152485", "title": "Sikhism in Japan", "text": "Sikhism in Japan\n\nSikhism is a small minority religion in Japan. The gurdwaras are in mainly located in Tokyo and Kobe.\n"}
{"id": "7940789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7940789", "title": "Sikhism in the United Kingdom", "text": "Sikhism in the United Kingdom\n\nSikhism was recorded as the religion of 420,196 people resident in England at the 2011 Census, along with 2,962 people in Wales, 9,055 in Scotland and 216 in Northern Ireland, making for a total Sikh population of 432,429.\n\nSikhs and Britain have a long and storied history. Decades before the last Sikh King, Duleep Singh, stepped onto British soil in the middle of the 19th century, there had been Anglo-Sikh contact as far back as the 1800s in the Punjab with his father Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Since then, even though this relationship has changed in nature many times, both communities have left a permanent mark on each other. For instance, in such varied parts of British society as food, language, political systems, soldiering and of course cricket, the British-Sikh relationship has given rise to many new facets of modern British and Indian society.\n\nThe first Sikh settler in Britain was Maharaja Duleep Singh (1838-1893), the last Sikh Emperor of the Imperial Sukerchakia Dynasty, from 1844-1849. He arrived in England in the year 1854, having been exiled from his Kingdom by the British. His mother, Empress Jind Kaur (1817-1863), arrived in 1860 at Kensington in Victorian London and settled permanently, after fighting the British for a long time until the fall of the Sikh Dynasty in 1849. She was given permission by the British Parliament to settle on English soil. A jewel on the UK queen's crown belonged to, and was stolen from Maharaja Ranjeet Singh.\n\nThe First Sikh Settlers started migrating from the Punjab in 1911, when the first Sikh Gurdwara was opened in London. During the start of the First and Second World Wars respectively, there was already an established Sikh presence in many parts of England. In London itself the community was small but this grew very rapidly during the 1950s and 60s and faced much racism and discrimination, mainly owed to the appearance and skin colour.\n\nBritish Sikhs are considered one of the best example of cultural integration in the United Kingdom. A strong work ethic combined with an emphasis on the importance of the family has been the reason why Sikhs have been so successful. \n\n65% of Sikhs have a graduate level qualification or above. Sikhs in the 20 - 34 age group have the highest level of graduates (55%) within the Sikh community. The highest level of post graduate Qualifications of Masters degrees (22%) is in the 35 - 49 age group. 8% of Sikhs aged 65 and over have a PHD. The split of formal education between women and men is roughly equal, with slightly more women holding a university degree or equivalent (48% of women, 42% of men).\n\nThe most popular employment sectors for British Sikhs include: Healthcare (10%), IT and Technology (8%), Teaching and Education (9%), Accountancy and Financial Management (7%). This demonstrates that Sikhs tend to favour professional and technical employment sectors compared with others. Healthcare is a popular sector for all age groups. Teaching and Education is more popular with the 35 - 49 and the 50 - 64 age groups than other groups, whereas accountancy and financial management is more popular with the 20 - 34 age group (9%) compared with 6% respectively for both the 35 - 49 and the 50 - 64 age groups. The top career choices for Sikh women are Healthcare (14%) and Teaching and Education (15%). Healthcare is also a joint second most popular choice for Sikh men along with Accountancy and Financial Management, the most popular sector being IT and Technology (13%).\n\nHome ownership is very high amongst British Sikhs with 87% of households owning at least a portion of their home. 30% of British Sikh households own their homes outright and only 9% rent their properties. A mere 1% of British Sikhs claim Housing Benefit. This represents the highest level of private home ownership rate over any other community in the UK. In addition half of all British Sikh families (49%) own more than one property in the UK, with a similar number (50%) owning at least one property in India. British Sikh families appear to use property as a means of building assets for the future. 6% of British Sikhs own property elsewhere in Europe. \n\nAccording to the ONS, the national average income for British households is approximately £40,000 before tax. With these values in mind the British Sikh Report 2014 found that Sikh households tend to be affluent. Two in every three British Sikh households (66%) have pre-tax incomes in excess of £40,000, and over a third of British Sikh households (34%) have an income in excess of £80,000 giving a value for the Sikh Pound of 7.63 billion.\n\nBritish Sikhs are clear net contributors to the British economy and have a strong entrepreneurial drive, with about one in three British Sikh families (34%) owning a business in the UK.\n\nPerforming Seva (selfless service) is a basic tenet of Sikhism, and Sikhs are also expected to share at least 10 per cent their earnings with those less fortunate and for good causes (Dasvandh). \n\n64 per cent of the British Sikhs engage in some volunteering work. 40 per cent give between one and five hours of their time per week on voluntary activities, including Seva at their Gurdwara, whilst more than two per cent spend over 25 hours on such activities. Sikhs spend about 200 hours per year on voluntary activities on average. 93 per cent of Sikhs also donate some money to charity every month, with only seven per cent not donating any. Over 50 percent of Sikhs donate between £1 and £20 every month, and 7 per cent donate more than £100 per month. It is estimated that Sikhs in Britain donate around £380 per year to charity on average. Taken as a whole, Sikhs in the UK are estimated to donate about £125 million to charity per annum and spend over 65 million hours each year on voluntary activities.\n\nThere is a tradition that Asian families tend to live together in extended households, and the majority of Sikhs prefer to live with extended family as they grow older - 61% of males and 52% of females. The second highest preference is in their own home (44% males and 41% females) and the third preference is in a retirement village with 31% females and 24% males wanting to live in a retirement village.\n\nSome of the bigger festival celebrations within the British Sikh community include Vaisakhi which usually involves colourful street processions throughout the country and Diwali. Southall hosts one of the largest Vaisakhi street processions in Europe. Since 2009, both Vaisakhi and Diwali have been celebrated every year at 10 Downing Street, the residence of the British Prime Minister.\n\nSikhs are exempt from a couple of British laws; for example they are permitted to ride motorcycles without a helmet (so long as they are wearing a turban) and are permitted to carry around their Kirpan in situations where it would otherwise be seen as an offensive weapon. In February 2010 Sir Mota Singh, Britain's first Asian judge, criticised the banning of the Kirpan in public places such as schools.\n\n\n74.5% of Sikhs have experienced racism in the United Kingdom. In spite of this 95% of Sikhs are proud of being born and living in the UK.\n\nThe BBC have reported that around 71% of British Sikh women \"have experienced gender discrimination\" and \"have done so within their extended family\". \n\nThe Gurdwara remains the focal point of the Sikh community. There are also now a variety of additional organisations which have been setup by Sikhs to support the community:\n\n\nIn 2007 a Sikh girl's family claimed that she had been forcibly converted to Islam, and they received a police guard after being attacked by an armed gang. In response to these news stories, an open letter to Sir Ian Blair, signed by ten academics, argued that claims that Hindu and Sikh girls were being forcefully converted were \"part of an arsenal of myths propagated by right-wing Hindu supremacist organisations in India\". The Muslim Council of Britain issued a press release pointing out there was a lack of evidence of any forced conversions and suggested it was an underhand attempt to smear the British Muslim population.\n\nAn academic paper by Katy Sian published in the journal \"South Asian Popular Culture\" in 2011 explored the question of how \"forced conversion narratives\" arose around the Sikh diaspora in the United Kingdom. Sian, who reports that claims of conversion through courtship on campuses are widespread in the UK, says that rather than relying on actual evidence they primarily rest on the word of \"a friend of a friend\" or on personal anecdote. According to Sian, the narrative is similar to accusations of \"white slavery\" lodged against the Jewish community and foreigners to the UK and the US, with the former having ties to anti-semitism that mirror the Islamophobia betrayed by the modern narrative. Sian expanded on these views in 2013's \"Mistaken Identities, Forced Conversions, and Postcolonial Formations\".\n\nA BBC \"Inside Out (London)\" programme televised in September 2013 interviewed several young Sikh women who were allegedly groomed and sexually abused by Muslim men, with one alleged ex-groomer even admitting that they specifically targeted Sikh girls. Bhai Mohan Singh, working for the Sikh Awareness Society (SAS), told the BBC he was investigating 19 cases where Sikh girls were allegedly being groomed by older Muslim men, of which one ended with a successful conviction. In August 2013 four Muslims and two Hindus were convicted at Leicester Crown Court of paying a \"vulnerable and damaged\" 16-year-old Sikh girl for sex: the investigation which had led to their being arrested and charged had been opened due to evidence Bhai Mohan Singh had presented to the police. However, a report published in the previous year by Faith Matters (which runs the TELL MAMA anti-Muslim violence helpline and works closely with the Jewish Community Security Trust) claimed that the Sikh Awareness Society included radical anti-Muslim elements among its members; Faith Matters furthermore alleged that it was a matter of \"common consensus\" that the radical Sikhs said to have had secret meetings with the English Defence League were members of the SAS. The SAS deny the allegations and have distanced themselves from the organization, a spokesperson telling Hope not Hate: \"We would have nothing to do with any racist or fascist group, certainly one that uses religion to divide people…I know nothing about this and no, we are not in any kind of talks and discussion with them\". The Nihal Show on the BBC Asian Network discussed the issue and debated the merits of the grooming claims in September 2013.\n\n\"Behzti\" (\"Dishonour\"), a 2004 play by Gurpreet Kaur Bhatti, sparked such controversy that its performances were cancelled. A scene set in a gurdwara included scenes of rape, physical abuse and murder. Sikhs protested its opening night, 18 December 2004, at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre. Performances of the play at the Rep were cancelled two days later.\n\nHolding an \"Anand Karaj\" wedding ceremony between a Sikh and a non-Sikh has become a contentious issue. In 2016, armed police arrested scores of protesters at Gurdwara Sahib in Leamington Spa, which \"The Telegraph\" claims \"has a history of tensions over mixed marriages\". Sikh Youth UK, who were behind the protest, blamed \"a rogue Gurdwara committee creating discord\". One Sikh journalist called the issue a \"deepening schism\" while another deplored the protesters' use of masks, and the way their actions allowed the \"kirpan\" (ceremonial dagger) to be seen as a bladed weapon, thus giving \"the racists and the bigots justifications for their ignorant hatred\". An investigation on BBC Asian Network found that these disruptions over interfaith marriage had been going on for years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4171283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4171283", "title": "Takama-ga-hara", "text": "Takama-ga-hara\n\nIn Shinto, \"ame\" (heaven) is a lofty, sacred world, the home of the \"kotoamatsukami\". Some scholars have attempted to explain the myth of descent of the gods from the Takama-ga-hara as an allegory of the migration of peoples. However, it is likely to have referred from the beginning to a higher world in a religious sense. A Shinto myth explains that at the time of creation, light, pure elements branched off to become heaven (\"ame\"). Heavy, turbid elements branched off to become earth (\"tsuchi\"). \"Ame\" became the home of the \"ama-tsu-kami\" or gods of heaven, while \"tsuchi\" became the home of \"kuni-tsu-kami\" or gods of the land. The \"ama-tsu-kami\" are said to have descended from heaven to pacify and perfect this world.\n\n"}
{"id": "4645139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4645139", "title": "Tat Khalsa", "text": "Tat Khalsa\n\nTat Khalsa (the 'True Khalsa') Singh Sabha was a Sikh organization founded in Lahore in 1879 to rival the earlier Sanatan Singh Sabha based in Amritsar. Although original Tat Khalsa are Sikhs made by Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji. The major differentiation came only after Baba Banda Singh Bahadur. When Sikhs started associating with Bandi Khalsa ( Baba Banda Singh Bahadur) and Tat Khalsa.\n\nThe leader of Tat Khalsa Singh Sabha was Bhai Gurmukh Singh, a professor at the Oriental College of Lahore. He contacted Bhai Kanh Singh of Nabha, a notable scholar, who wrote Mahan Kosh (encyclopedia of Sikhism) and Ham Hindu Nahin (We are not Hindus). Bhai Gurmukh Singh and Bhai Kanh Singh cooperated with Max Arthur Macauliffe, a divisional judge, to undertake the translation of Granth Sahib (finished in 1909).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56206387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56206387", "title": "Tek Singh", "text": "Tek Singh\n\nTek Singh was a Sikh religious figure. Toba Tek Singh a Pakistani city from Punjab is named after him.\n\nThere is a legend associated with him that he was very kind-hearted man who served water and provided shelter to the worn out and thirsty travelers passing by a small pond (\"toba\" in Punjabi) which eventually was called Toba Tek Singh.\n"}
{"id": "33880383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33880383", "title": "The Cavanaughs (TV series)", "text": "The Cavanaughs (TV series)\n\nThe Cavanaughs is an American sitcom that aired on CBS from December 1, 1986 to July 27, 1989.\n\nThe series revolved around Francis \"Pop\" Cavanaugh, a 71-year-old, blue-collar Irish Catholic man living in South Boston with his daughter Kit and son Chuck, as well as Chuck's sons (one of whom was a Catholic priest) and daughter. Much of the show's humor stemmed from conflicts between the cantankerous, opinionated Pop and his grown children.\n\nAfter airing during the 1986-87 TV season, the show went on hiatus and returned in the Summer of 1988.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51613496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51613496", "title": "The Conjuring (song)", "text": "The Conjuring (song)\n\n\"The Conjuring\" is a song by American thrash metal band Megadeth from their 1986 album \"Peace Sells... but Who's Buying?\". Written by Dave Mustaine during a time when he dabbled in black magic, the song's lyrics have been described as referencing a Satanic ritual, and according to Mustaine contain \"instructions for hexes\".\n\nThe song is one of several Megadeth songs referencing the occult, witchcraft, or black magic. Others include \"Bad Omen\" and \"Good Mourning/Black Friday\", and most explicitly \"Five Magics\" from their 1990 album \"Rust in Peace\", which directly mentions wizardry, sorcerery, alchemy and magic.\n\nSince 2001 the song was not performed live by Megadeth, due to Mustaine's Christian religious beliefs being at odds with its subject matter. Several months before the 25th anniversary of the release of the album \"Peace Sells... but Who's Buying?\" in 2011, Mustaine reiterated his reluctance to perform the song. In 2016, however, after the band's drummer Chris Adler asked if they could \"re-record [the song] with different lyrics\", Mustaine admitted in an interview that he \"wouldn't mind doing the song again\", as long as \"it didn't hurt anybody\". On June 12, 2018, Megadeth performed \"The Conjuring\" live for the first time in 17 years at the Home Monitoring Aréna in Plzeň, Czech Republic.\n"}
{"id": "27587450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27587450", "title": "Union of Good", "text": "Union of Good\n\nThe Union of Good (UG) (, Itilaf al-Khayr or Ittilaf al-Kheir), also known as the Charity Coalition, is an umbrella organization consisting of over 50 Islamic charities and funds which funnel money to organizations belonging to Hamas, which currently rules the territory of the Gaza Strip. Hamas, which characterizes itself as an \"Islamic resistance movement against Israeli occupation\" is also on the US State Department list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations.\n\nThe Union of Good was founded in May 2001 and is based in Saudi Arabia. It was blocked by Israel from operating in the West Bank and Gaza in 2002, then banned in 2008. The United States Treasury designates the Union of Good as supporting terrorism under Executive Order 13224 in November 2008. It was founded in May 2001 and is based in Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe Union is chaired by Yusuf Al-Qaradawi, an Islamist cleric close to the Muslim Brotherhood. Immediately after the outbreak of the Al-Aqsa Intifada, in October 2000, he established the Union of the Good with the involvement of the Hamas leadership to fund a \"Campaign of 101 Days\" with the purpose of aiding Palestinians in the PA-administered territories. Following its initial success, the Union of Good was institutionalized and has been active ever since.\n\nThe Union of Good is composed of individuals and foundations proven to be Hamas-affiliated as well as designated extremist and terrorist around the world. According to the information made available by a 2005 report published by the Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center at the Center for Special Studies (C.S.S), the Union has served as a contractor to transfer funds for Hamas institutions in the territories administered by the Palestinian Authority.\n\nThe report pointed out that the UG divided the territories in four administrative districts in order to maximize its efficiency in transferring funds. In three districts (“North West Bank,” “Center West Bank,” and “South West Bank”), UG established or consolidated its affiliation with a designated organization serving as coordinator for a number of Hamas institutions active locally. Al-Tadhamoun, based in Nablus, is the coordinating organization for UG in the Northern district, while Al-Islah, in Ramallah, runs Hamas’ activities in Central West Bank and Hebron’s Islamic Charity Society operates in the Southern district. In the fourth district, corresponding to the “Gaza Strip,” UG operated instead as an independent representative.\nAccording to the Israeli government, following are some of the prominent societies and funds that form the Coalition:\n\n\nInterpal (The Palestinian Relief and Development Fund), headquartered in the United Kingdom, is believed to be acting as a representative for the Union of Good in Europe. Interpal is based in a building - Pinnacle House on Old Oak Common Lane in West London – very close to two other buildings - Westgate House and Crown House - that a recent analysis by The Telegraph has identified as the main hub for the Muslim Brotherhood and Hamas’ operations in Europe. According to The Telegraph, the seventh floor of Westgate House houses the Muslim Charities Forum, an umbrella body for 10 British charities, six of which “are or were members of the Union of Good.”\n\nThe charity was designated as a terrorist entity by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in August 2003. Not only Interpal was originally listed as a major donation point for the UG; many of the UG pages have listed Interpal telephone numbers as designated contact numbers. The Union of Good maintained for a while its English pages on an Interpal domain. Moreover, NEPA emphasized that the managing trustee of Interpal, Essam Yusuf, was the initial Executive Manager of the Union of Good and the Secretary General of the Union of Good at the time of its designation by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. As of mid-2007, Yusuf served on the Hamas executive committee under Hamas leader Khaled Misha'al.\n\nIn 2009 the Charity Commission for England and Wales, after an investigation, ordered Interpal to dissociate itself from membership of the Union of Good. In a follow up the Charities Commission concluded that Interpal had complied with that order. Israel and the Nine Eleven Finding Answers Foundation also believe it is linked to other organisations. However, a number of commentators have claimed that Yusuf continues to play a central role in the Union of Good.\n\nPalästinensische Vereinigung in Österreich is among the organizations which the U.S. Department of the Treasury defined as “the primary financiers of Union of Good projects” in 2008. Among these latter, the U.S. Treasury also listed: the “Commite de Bienfaisance et de Secours aux Palestiniens” (CBSP), based in France, and a related Swiss association, “The Association de Secours Palestinien” (ASP); “The Sanabil Association for Relief and Development,” based in Lebanon. These associations were all designated as terrorist entities for their relation to Hamas in 2003 as well.\n\nA recent analysis published by The NEFA Foundation highlighted that a 2007 UG website contained a list of 54 participating organizations in the Middle East, Europe and Africa.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Union of Good’s primary purpose is to strengthen Hamas’ political and military position in the West Bank and Gaza. The organization has primarily covered for Hamas financial transfers by diverting charitable donations to support Hamas members. Some of the funds transferred have been used to aid the families of suicide bombers fighting Israeli forces and imprisoned Hamas members.\n\nThe organization has provided funding to Hamas charities in the Gaza Strip for food packages, school-equipment, civic buildings and other charitable services. The humanitarian projects are carried out through affiliated institutions and improve Hamas’ status among the population, allegedly “helping Hamas to present itself as a potential radical Islamic alternative to the more secular-oriented Palestinian Authority.”\n\nArab Bank has been identified by multiple sources as the leading financial institution in the transfer of funds to Hamas and other Palestinian terrorist organizations. In fact, as in November 2004, the Union of Good asked for donations that could be deposited in branches of the Arab bank worldwide.\n\nIn 2014 a US jury found the bank liable for financing terrorism by processing transactions for Hamas’ members and affiliated organizations. On 15 August 2015 Arab Bank reached a settlement with hundreds of American plaintiffs who had filed a lawsuit against the bank under the Anti-Terrorism Act.\n\nThe Union of Good is designated by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist group, which allows the US to block the assets of foreign individuals and entities that commit, or pose a significant risk of committing, acts of terrorism.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, “the Union of Good's executive leadership and board of directors includes Hamas leaders, Specially Designated Global Terrorists (SDGTs), and other terrorist supporters.” The UG has in fact brokered several organizations and charities previously designated as terrorist entities for providing support to Hamas and Hamas-affiliated organizations in the West Bank and Gaza.\n\nOne of his founding members, Yusuf Al-Qaradawi, has been banned from entering the U.S., France and the U.K. for his alleged ties to terrorist organizations.\n\nAnother prominent board member of the Union of Good is the U.S. terrorist designated Abd al-Majid al-Zindani, a well-known Yemen-based Hamas fundraiser, a loyalist to Bin Laden and supporter of al-Qaeda.\n"}
