{"id": "9293448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9293448", "title": "425 Market Street", "text": "425 Market Street\n\n425 Market Street is an office skyscraper located on the corner of Market and Fremont Streets in the financial district of San Francisco, California. The , 38 floor office tower was completed in 1973. It was built by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company as their \"Pacific Coast Headquarters\" and was called \"1 Metropolitan Plaza\". It was built as a modern replacement for their older headquarters on Nob Hill at 600 Stockton Street (now remodeled as the Ritz-Carlton Hotel). It was among the first buildings in San Francisco to have a high-speed transport system (a glorified dumb waiter) for computer data cards, files and inner-office mail, at the time a state-of-the-art system.\n\nIts largest tenant today is law firm Morrison & Foerster LLP, one of the original tenants when the building first opened. The building is partially owned by the Government Pension Fund of Norway, who according to their 2015 report owns 47.5%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2709647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2709647", "title": "57th Street–Seventh Avenue (BMT Broadway Line)", "text": "57th Street–Seventh Avenue (BMT Broadway Line)\n\n57th Street–Seventh Avenue is an express station on the BMT Broadway Line of the New York City Subway. Located in Midtown Manhattan at the intersection of 57th Street and Seventh Avenue, it is served by the N and Q trains at all times, the R train at all times except late nights, and the W train on weekdays.\n\nOn the subway map and on announcements, the station is called 57th Street–Seventh Avenue, but is also sometimes called Midtown–57th Street. It is directly adjacent to Carnegie Hall.\n\nWhen this station opened on July 10, 1919, the BMT Broadway Line had ended north of this station as six trackways, of which only two tracks (local tracks) continued to the 60th Street Tunnel to Queens. The other four trackways, both the express tracks and the outermost trackways (both of the outermost trackways are ramps which have never been used) curve slightly west before ending, which were a provision for the line to run to Upper Manhattan via Central Park West.\n\nWith four tracks and two island platforms, this station is the northernmost express station on the BMT Broadway Line. Much of the BMT system is chained from the zero point here. The N, R, and W trains use the local tracks, which continue north under 59th and 60th Streets to Queens, while Q trains, limited weekday rush hour N trains and one weekday a.m. rush hour R train use the center express tracks to continue north along the BMT 63rd Street Line to Lexington Avenue–63rd Street and the Second Avenue Subway. Before the BMT 63rd Street Line was built in 1989, the express tracks continued as layup spurs north of the station (although construction of the 63rd Street line from 1971 to 1978 continued the section between this station and Lexington Avenue–63rd Street station). The express tracks ran for about 400 feet.\n\nNorth of the station, the local tracks continue into the 60th Street Tunnel to Queens, while the express tracks continue to 63rd Street, with switches to the 60th Street tunnel. South of the station, there are also crossovers between the two express tracks, between both northbound tracks, and between both southbound tracks.\n\nThis station underwent an overhaul in the late 1970s, which included fixing the station's structure and replacing the original wall tiles, old signs, and incandescent lighting with 1970s modern-look wall tile band and tablet mosaics, signs and fluorescent lights. Staircases and platform edges were also repaired.\n\nIn 1992–1993, the station received a major overhaul with state-of-the-art repairs as well as upgrading the station for ADA compliance. The original late 1910s tiling was restored, repairs were made to the staircases, new tiling on the floors, upgrades to the station's lights and public address system, installation of ADA safety treads along the platform edge, new signs, and new trackbeds in both directions. Accessibility to the mezzanine was further increased by the addition of a usable elevator on the southwest corner of 57th Street. While elevators have yet to be installed for platform access, it allows disabled access to the fare booth and MetroCard vending machines. The MTA intends to provide ADA access to the platforms as part of the 2010–2014 Capital Plan.\n\nElevators to the platforms have been under design for several years, with the MTA originally planning to award contracts in November 2013, but the design process was delayed several years due to preexisting utilities blocking the way of the proposed elevator access. Other issues included asbestos abatement, the lack of available space underground for the expansion of the mezzanine, and the need to negotiate with another developer to install elevators. The MTA started working on a revised design in September 2015. The construction award, and the beginning of construction was finally awarded in December 2017. Ultimately, the location of the platform elevators was moved to the southern end of the station, near 55th Street, necessitating the installation of a new street-to-mezzanine elevator at 55th Street. Substantial completion is projected for February 2021.\n\nNorth of this station are tunnel stub headings running straight from the local tracks for a proposed line under Central Park West or Morningside Avenue, that would have terminated at 145th Street or 155th Street.\n\nWhen the BRT / BMT was building the Broadway line as part of the Dual Contracts, the company also wanted to be awarded the Central Park West / Eighth Avenue route, which was on the planning boards at that time. The company figured that if they built ramps from the Broadway line that could naturally be extended to an Eighth Avenue line, they would get a toehold on being awarded that line, rather than lose out to the IRT, the only other subway operator when the Dual Contracts were built. The BMT / BRT never built that line for various reasons including the bankruptcy of the company after the Malbone Street Wreck and Mayor Hylan's plan to include the Eighth Avenue / CPW route in the IND system. The ramps were built but never used for revenue service. They were eventually used for storage until the tracks were disconnected.\n\nThe disused trackways for the proposed line ramp up and run for about 500 feet.\n\nThe ramp on the northbound side has a Maintenance-of-Way shed built on it, and the trackway on the southbound side also has a storage shed sitting in it, just north of where the local tracks come in, but this shed is few hundred feet north of the shed on the opposite trackway of the other side of the tunnel.\n\nSome of the actual track on the trackways remain, but are covered by many years of dirt. They can be seen from passing trains. The never-used trackways curve slightly west before ending.\n\n"}
{"id": "2480921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2480921", "title": "Adam Crozier", "text": "Adam Crozier\n\nAdam Alexander Crozier (born 26 January 1964) is a Scottish businessman, and was former chief executive officer of media company ITV plc, operator of the ITV television network covering most of the United Kingdom. \n\nAfter a career at Saatchi & Saatchi culminating with the post of joint chief executive 1995, he came to wide public prominence as the new chief executive of The Football Association in 2000 at the age of 35, before in 2003 becoming the chief executive of the Royal Mail Group, the United Kingdom's mail delivery service, where he oversaw a controversial modernisation and redundancy programme. \n\nIn January 2010 he was announced as the new chief executive of ITV plc, where he arrived on 26 April 2010. Crozier announced he was leaving this post in June 2017.\n\nCrozier was born and raised on the Isle of Bute on the west coast of Scotland in 1964. His father was a manager for Lord Bute, and his mother was secretary to the managing director of \"The Scotsman\". Crozier went to a school in Ayr, before moving to Graeme High School, a comprehensive school in Falkirk. He graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree (BA) in business organisation from Edinburgh's Heriot-Watt University. While at school, Crozier had trials with both Hibernian and Stirling Albion football clubs.\n\nCrozier received an Honorary Doctorate from Heriot-Watt University in 2005.\n\nCrozier joined Pedigree Petfoods as a graduate trainee in 1984. In 1986, he moved to the \"Daily Telegraph\" to work in media sales.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1999 Crozier worked for advertising agency Saatchi and Saatchi, becoming media director in 1990, and then being appointed as joint chief executive from 1995 alongside Tamara Ingram. This occurred in the wake of the departure of the founding Saatchi brothers to form M&C Saatchi.\n\nCrozier came to public attention as the surprise appointment to the role of chief executive of The Football Association, the governing body of England's national game, football, aged just 35 and having had no experience of business in football. He replaced Graham Kelly. In his short tenure from 2000 to 2002, the FA relocated headquarters from Lancaster Gate to Soho Square, appointed the first ever foreign England national team manager, Swede Sven-Göran Eriksson, and became a more commercial organisation, maximising its revenues. He also reduced the average age of the FA's staff from 55 to 32, progressed the Wembley Stadium redevelopment, and reduced the FA's ruling body from a 91-member FA Board to a committee of 12. His moves were not without criticism, with complaints from some about lack of consultation and of acting beyond his powers. He was replaced by Mark Palios.\n\nWhile at the FA, Crozier reportedly identified some members of the England national team as the Golden Generation. It was a term later criticised towards the end of the decade by some England players as having been undeserved, and of causing undue expectations and pressure due to the fact they had at the time, and in years since, failed to win major tournaments.\n\nCrozier became the chief executive of the Royal Mail Group in February 2003. Entering the post, Crozier described his remit as the \"biggest corporate turnaround programme in the UK\". Crozier initiated a programme of modernisation and reform, to deal with changes in the service brought about by reforms beginning with the Postal Services Act 2000.\n\nIn Crozier's first three years, the Royal Mail division produced record annual profits of £537m in May 2005, making £2m a day in profits, up from £1.5m a day losses before he joined. The Group overall had been transformed from recording losses of £1.1bn at the start of the turnaround plan in 2002 into a profit of £355m in 2005. Royal Mail chairman Allan Leighton said it was a \"fantastic turnaround\" but also that there was still \"a huge amount to do\". The newly formed mail regulator Postwatch were however critical that it had failed to achieve 11 of its 15 licence targets during the previous financial year. As the postal service was opened up to competition in early 2006, Royal Mail recorded losses of £10m in 2006 and £279m in 2007.\n\nHis reforms included highly controversial large scale post office closures in the thousands, layoffs of Royal Mail staff, changes in working practices, and the ending of the second daily delivery and moving the first daily delivery to later in the day. While at the Royal Mail, Crozier's salary, one of the largest in the country for the head of a publicly owned body, was criticised in light of the changes being made to the Royal Mail workforce. Ongoing reforms eventually led to large scale industrial disputes and strike action in both 2007 and 2009 onwards.\n\nOn 28 January 2010, it was announced Crozier would be leaving the Royal Mail later in 2010 to become the next permanent chief executive of media group ITV plc.\n\nITV plc., is one of three partners within ITV Network Limited, the not for profit organisation which runs the ITV television network, the United Kingdom's first commercial network effectively created under the Television Act 1954. Crozier was replacing Michael Grade, who announced his intention to leave in April 2009. Crozier was given the task of increasing ITV's advertising revenues which had fallen with the proliferation of new channels in the British television market. On announcing the appointment, ITV chairman Archie Norman said of Crozier that he is a \"very strong leader with a great track record in delivering transformational change\".\n\nCrozier is also a board member of Camelot Group, the National Lottery operator, and the Debenhams retail chain. He is also member of the President's Committee of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI).\n\nCrozier is married to Annette, whom he met while working for Saatchi and Saatchi, and has two children. Despite having taken on high-profile jobs involving pressing through major upheavals, he is described as \"softly spoken\" and has previously said of the spotlight, \"I hate it, absolutely hate it. The bizarre thing about the last three jobs I've done is that I don't like [the public profile] at all. I will go to enormous lengths not to do public things – because it is just not me.\"\n"}
{"id": "41952259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41952259", "title": "Adobe Marketing Cloud", "text": "Adobe Marketing Cloud\n\nAdobe Experience Cloud (AEC), formerly Adobe Marketing Cloud (AMC), is a collection of integrated online marketing and Web analytics products by Adobe Systems. \n\nAdobe Marketing Cloud includes a set of analytics, social, advertising, media optimization, targeting, Web experience management and content management products aimed at the advertising industry and hosted on Amazon Web Services. Like other Adobe Cloud services (e.g., Adobe Creative Cloud), the Adobe Marketing Cloud allows users with valid subscriptions to download the entire collection and use it directly on their computers with open access to online updates.\n\nThe Adobe Marketing Cloud collection was introduced to the public in October 2012 as Adobe began retiring the Omniture name it acquired in October 2009. Products of the defunct company were then integrated step by step into the new Cloud service which includes the following eight applications: Adobe Analytics, Adobe Target, Adobe Social, Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Media Optimizer, Adobe Campaign, Audience Manager and Primetime. In November 2013, Adobe Systems introduced mobile features to its Marketing Cloud, making smartphones and other mobile devices new targets for analytics.\n\nOn September 15, 2009, Omniture, Inc. and Adobe Systems announced that Adobe would be acquiring Omniture, an online marketing and web analytics business unit in Orem, Utah. The deal of $1.8 billion, was completed on October 23, 2009, and is now joined by other Adobe acquisitions such as Day Software and Efficient Frontier, as the main components of Adobe's Digital Marketing Business Unit. Around 2012, Adobe withdrew the Omniture brand while its products were being integrated into the Adobe Marketing Cloud.\n\nOn May 21, 2018 Adobe announced the acquisition of Magento for 1.68$ billion. The addition of the Magento Commerce will enable commerce features to be integrated into the Adobe Experience Cloud. \n\nIn the same year, on September 20, 2018 Adobe acquired the marketing automation company Marketo.. The acquisition is expected to close in Q4 2018.\n"}
{"id": "10706781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10706781", "title": "Ali Shafizadeh", "text": "Ali Shafizadeh\n\nAli Shafizadeh () is an Iranian businessman.\n\nHe is the owner of Iran's Premier Football League club Esteghlal Ahvaz F.C. who he bought in 2002.\n\nOver the years he has bought numerous players for substantial fees, including Adriano Alves, Abdul-Wahab Abu Al-Hail and Saša Ilić, and coaches such as Croatian Luka Bonačić and Serbian Srđan Gemaljević. In 2004 Shafizadeh put a $5 million unsuccessful bid to bring Brazilian superstar Rivaldo to the Takhti Stadium..\n\nShafizadeh sparked much controversy on February 15, 2007 when he announced Esteghlal Ahvaz F.C. were to withdraw from IPL. However, the team appeared two days later in a league match against Persepolis F.C. which ended 1-0 to Esteghlal Ahvaz, dismissing these claims and led people to believe it was all tactical games before one of the biggest games of their season versus Persepolis.\n\nShafizadeh also owned the Azadegan League club Esteghlal Kish F.C., which is based in Kish Island in the Persian Gulf, from 2002 to 2006, until it was bought by Shahrdari Bandar Abbas F.C..\n"}
{"id": "20632529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20632529", "title": "Andrei Mocioni", "text": "Andrei Mocioni\n\nAndrei Mocioni de Foen (also spelled Andrea de Mocioni or Andreiu Mocionĭ, last name also Mocsonyi, Mocsoni, Mocionyi or Mocsony; or \"Andreas von Mocsonyi\", ; June 27, 1812 – April 23/May 5, 1880) was an Austrian and Hungarian jurist, politician, and informal leader of the ethnic Romanian community, one of the founding members of the Romanian Academy. Of a mixed Aromanian and Albanian background, raised as a Greek Orthodox, he belonged to the Mocioni family, which had been elevated to Hungarian nobility. He was brought up at his family estate in the Banat, at Foeni, where he joined the administrative apparatus, and identified as a Romanian since at least the 1830s. He rose to prominence during the Hungarian Revolution of 1848: he was a supporter of the House of Lorraine, trying to obtain increased autonomy for Banat Romanians in exchange for loyalism. The Austrians appointed Mocioni to an executive position over that region, but curbed his expectations by including the Banat as a whole into the Voivodeship of Serbia. This disappointment pushed Mocioni to renounce politics during much of the 1850s.\n\nThe attempt by Austria to ensure a new administrative formula in the 1860s saw Mocioni's co-option into the Imperial Diet. He also organized, in 1860, a National Assembly in the Banat, an abortive project seeking to obtain autonomy on ethnic grounds. He then oscillated between ethnic federalism within a nominal Hungarian realm and full centralism in Austria's custody, while failing in his bid to promote election boycott as a political weapon. He had noted political rivalries with Romanians who sided with Hungarian radicalism, in particular Eftimie Murgu. Serving one full term in the Diet of Hungary, Mocioni also turned to cooperation with the Romanians of Transylvania, and helped Andrei Șaguna to reestablish an independent Transylvanian Metropolis for Romanian Orthodox Christians. Alongside his brothers Gheorghe and Anton, and his lawyer Vincențiu Babeș, he founded the newspaper \"Albina\" of Vienna.\n\nThe creation of Austria-Hungary and the Banat's absorption into the Lands of the Crown of Saint Stephen were significant blows for Mocioni's nationalist-loyalist campaign. Mocioni withdrew to Foeni, ailing and out of the public eye for the final decade of his life. He was still a noted philanthropist and sponsor of the Romanian press, but had conflicts with Krassó County voters and the Romanian peasants on his estates, a matter which contributed to his voluntary isolation. He was survived by his wife Laura, daughter of Petar Čarnojević, and by his nephew, the politician Alexandru Mocioni.\n\nThe Mocionis were probably descended from Petru Mucină, an Aromanian (or \"Macedo-Romanian\") priest from Aspropotamos in Thessaly or Moscopole, who declared loyalty to the Habsburg Monarchy and served in the Great Turkish War. He and one of his brothers were killed in action somewhere in the Banat. Archpriest Constantin Mocioni, or \"Constantinus Motsonyi\", who may have been Mucină's son, settled among the Greek Orthodox (Greek, Romanian, and Aromanian) community of Pest in the 1740s. Family documents suggest that he was originally from Moscopole, and that he died at 110 years of age; under his watch, the family established lucrative businesses and began purchasing estates in Hungary and the Banat. His two sons Andrei and Mihai were raised into the nobility by King-Emperor Joseph II: the former in February 1783, the latter in June 1798, after distinguished service in the War of the First Coalition. The Mocionis were thus one of some 200 Aromanian families to receive titles, and became integrated with the 12,500 Romanian noble families attested in Hungary by 1800 (from a total 340,000).\n\nAndrei the elder was killed in mysterious circumstances before he could receive his diploma, but this was granted to his wife. The more senior branch established by them became known as \"Mocioni de Foen\", or \"fényi Mocsonyi\", in reference to its core estate of Foeni (Fény). This was by contrast with Mihai's descendants, the \"armalist\" Mocionis, who did not hold a titular estate—although they built a manor at Birchiș (Marosberkes), they were mostly based in Pest, where they founded the Kefala Library. Andrei the second was a grandson of the original Andrei, born to lawyer Ioan Mocioni de Foen (1780–1854) and his wife Iuliana Panaiot (1787–1858). On his mother's side, Andrei had Albanian roots. He had an elder brother, Petru, born in 1808, and two junior ones: Anton and Gheorghe (born 1816 and 1823, respectively). Other siblings included brothers George and Lucian (the latter of whom died young) and sister Ecaterina. Ioan and Iuliana together had as many as 11 other children. Andrei was simultaneously the uncle and cousin of writer Alexandru Mocioni, born from a consanguine marriage between Ecaterina and her uncle Mihai Mocioni.\nAndrei the younger was a native of Pest, but grew up mostly in Foeni where, according to scholar Păun Otiman, he received \"a profoundly Christian Orthodox education, inspired by Macedo-Romanian traditions and culture\". Originally, the Mocionis only spoke Aromanian and Hungarian. Nevertheless, the family encouraged intercultural contacts, with Ioan speaking as many as eleven languages. According to the Banatian Serb journalist Mihailo Polit-Desančić, the local Mocionis, including Andrei, also made a point of learning Serbian, and \"sort of carried themselves like Serbs\". Seen by his contemporaries as a man of outstanding culture and upbringing, Andrei had \"perfect\" command of Aromanian, Romanian, Hungarian, Serbian, as well as Latin, French, and German. Like his father, he took a law degree in 1828 or 1832, from the Royal University of Pest. He then worked in the local administration of Banat. In 1836, he was the second-ranked notary of Torontál County, being appointed first pretor in 1843. Ethnologist Elena Rodica Colta dates the Mocionis' definitive self-identification as Romanians to this period, noting that they believed the entire Aromanian ethnos to be a branch of the Romanian community. During his time in Pest, Andrei began frequenting the literary salon organized by Atanasiu Grabovski de Apadia in Terézváros, meeting with exponents of Aromanian and Romanian causes.\n\nWhile participating in Torontál's \"congregatio generalis\", Andrei Mocioni sat with the \"conservative-progressive\" side of the Romanian caucus, taking his distance from the revolutionary liberals. Thanks in part to his contribution, Torontál remained a safe seat for the conservative club of István Széchenyi, committed to \"moderate progress\" for the country at large, with \"national conservation\" for the Romanians. In 1847, he managed to obtain a seat in the Diet of Hungary, for his brother Petru, obtaining him votes from conservative Hungarians, Serbs, Bulgarians, Armenians and Swabians.\n\nThe same period saw him dragged into the Austrian and Hungarian Revolutions. Like many Romanians, Mocioni supported the former's liberal reforms, and remained loyal to Franz Joseph I, opposing the rise of Hungarian nationalism. This pitted him against the pro-Hungarian revolutionary Eftimie Murgu, who enlisted the loyalties of various other Banatians. The Hungarian State reacted by confiscating Mocioni's property and forcing him into exile. By September 1849, he was in Vienna, where he acted as a Romanian representative, alongside Ioan Dobran and Vincențiu Babeș. Petru Mocioni was also active there as a \"man of trust\" of the Banatian Romanians, presenting Franz Stadion with a set of political proposals on their behalf.\n\nFollowing the surrender at Világos and the resumption of Austrian control, Mocioni's loyalty was rewarded, and he was appointed supreme commissioner for the Banat, within the new Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar. As such, he governed directly over some 600,000 people. However, he disliked this arrangement, and, in December 1849, petitioned Prince Felix of Schwarzenberg to obtain the secession of Banat as an autonomous, Romanian, province. During his mandate, the administration was staffed with a growing number of Romanians. In tandem, his Mocioni relatives approached the Romanians of Transylvania, also loyalists, and together with them began pressing for a Romanian dukedom to be created out of Romanian territories in Hungary. The commissioner was also involved in such projects, proposing that a Romanian press be set up in Arad, located on the Banat's traditional border with Transylvania and Partium. By 1850, Mocioni was also campaigning to reestablish a Transylvanian (Romanian) Orthodox Metropolis, fully separated from the Patriarchate of Karlovci. The cause had first been embraced by Petru in the 1840s.\n\nIn 1852, he ultimately resigned as commissioner, expressing his protest toward the treatment of Romanians by the Austrian government. However, he was asked to reconsider by the authorities, who feared that they were becoming unpopular with the majority population. Although he did not resume his earlier posting, he went on to serve as president of the Central Commission in Temeschwar (Timișoara); he was also a counsel for the Austrian Court of Cassation. He resigned all positions in the state apparatus in 1856, and withdrew to Foeni. This decision was cemented in 1858 by the death of brother Petru, killed by his own landlord or doorman in Pest. The killing, which some authors see as a political assassination, ended with a celebrity trial in which Emanoil Gojdu represented the Mocionis as plaintiffs.\n\nIn 1859, at Foeni, Mocioni married a Serb coreligionist, Laura, the Countess Csernovich (Čarnojević). A woman of \"outstanding beauty\", she was also noted for collecting Ancient Roman coins and paintings with Roman subjects by Nicola Popescu. Her father, \"Graf\" Petar Čarnojević, had been an ally of the Hungarian revolutionaries; dispossessed and bankrupt, he moved to Foeni to live with the couple. They also shared the manor with Alexandru and the other \"armalist\" Mocionis, who were similarly disappointed with Hungarian politics, and who progressively withdrew from Pest.\n\nAuthor Atanasie Marian Marienescu notes that Mocioni, \"everywhere encouraged and supported by the Romanian intelligentsia, became in all places a leader of the Romanians in national and church causes, and this leadership was recognized by his brothers as well.\" From about 1860, he dedicated himself to the national awakening of Romanians, networking between the Austrian subjects in the Banat, Transylvania, and the Duchy of Bukovina, and those residing in the newly formed United Principalities. In November 1860, as Count Mensdorff-Pouilly was sent over to report to Franz Joseph on the demands of Banat Romanians, Mocioni called in and organized a National Assembly. This demanded the creation of a Banat Captaincy, and, when the request was denied, an administrative incorporation with Transylvania. He noted that Romanians needed to form a singular \"moral body\", \"called upon as a nation to partake in Austria's constitutional life.\" In his \"Memorandum to the Throne\", Mocioni also theorized that the Banat was an \"individuality\" distinct from the Serbian and Hungarian regions, and suggested that \"never-ending problems\" would result from its continued amalgamation.\n\nOn May 31, 1860, Mocioni was co-opted by the Imperial Diet, which contemplated administrative reforms based on new ethnic arrangements. He was an \"extraordinary counsel\", alongside Andrei Șaguna of Transylvania and Nicolae de Petrino of Bukovina, supporting regional autonomy and the reestablishment and a Romanian Metropolis. By origin, all three were in fact Aromanians. Reportedly, both Șaguna and Mocioni objected to Diet being non-democratic, and, on this point, agreed with György Apponyi that the delegates only represented themselves. Their objection was registered, but they were asked by Archduke Rainer not to insist on this point. Seen from his regional constituency, Mocioni was also one of two representatives of the Voivodeship, including the Banat. The other was a Serb prelate, Samuilo Maširević. By September 1860, Mocioni clarified that he considered himself a legitimate Banat and \"people's\" representative.\n\nOn June 6, Mocioni was elected to the Budget Committee, and from this position campaigned to have Romanian Orthodox churches subsidized on par with other state-recognized religions. Proclaiming the equality of nations against demands for Hungarian hegemony, he found himself debating the issue with György Majláth, who accused him of fostering the rebellious doctrines of Giuseppe Garibaldi. Mocioni defended his ideas as mainstream, arguing that equality had been promised by Franz Joseph himself. In the end, Mocioni sided with the \"centralists\", who supported proportional representation within a centralized Austria; Petrino, a \"federalist\", wanted regional decentralization on the basis of old laws, which, while favoring Bukovinans, would have left Romanians in Hungary underrepresented as a group. The two made common cause in their opposition to a projected union between Bukovina and Austrian Galicia.\n\nMocioni's mandate ended with the Diet recall on September 29, 1860. He had failed in his bid to secure Banat autonomy: the region, alongside all of the Voivodeship, was re-annexed to the Hungarian crown in December 1860. In April 1861, Mocioni persuaded the Banat Romanians to boycott future elections for the reestablished Hungarian Diet. This decision was overturned later that year, when a new ethnic assembly passed a resolution calling for single Romanian candidatures, supported by all voters. Mocioni himself was elected for Krassó (Caraș) County, at Lugoj (Lugos). His rival was Murgu, who sided with the Address Party and supported incorporation with Hungary. Mocioni, perceived as the Romanian nationalist candidate, won 621 votes to 94. However, he had not agreed to be listed as a candidate, and immediately renounced his seat. In his address, Mocioni explained that \"he had nothing in common with the Hungarian diet of Pest, since he had never intended to become a Hungarian.\" He also had a publicized row with the Temeschwar Burgrave, the pro-Hungarian Petru Cermena, but their dispute was ultimately patched up by Babeș. The Diet itself was dissolved later that year.\n\nMocioni's solution to these setbacks was the attempted creation of a de facto \"political body\" and \"crown land\" for all Romanians of the Empire. In the parallel debate over church affairs, Șaguna, the designated Metropolitan, had Mocioni as one of his \"most ardent supporters\", one \"fighting like a virile lion for the hierarchic separation\". Mediating between the Karlovci Patriarch Josif Rajačić and his Romanian clergy, he proposed to convene a representative synod on the issue of separation, knowing that it would favor the Romanians. The Patriarch resisted this move and suspended the negotiations, arguing that \"the [Serb] nation would have me stoned to death\". Rajačić's death in late 1861 created confusion among the Serb bishops, empowering Mocioni to network and campaign for the national schism. He outlined his political manifesto for autonomy in articles for \"Gazeta Transilvaniei\" of Corona, as well as in reports addressed to Franz Joseph. That year, with Șaguna and Alexandru Sterca-Șuluțiu, Mocioni established ASTRA Society, which promoted Romanian identity and culture, created despite continued chicanery from Hungarian officials. He also placed a bid for ASTRA's presidency, but lost to Șaguna.\n\nHe was more successful in his campaigning for an Orthodox metropolis, set up in December 1864; from 1865, it incorporated Banatian Romanian churches as the Diocese of Caransebeș. Already in 1862, Mocioni, Șaguna, and Eudoxiu Hurmuzachi had managed to obtain Franz Joseph's sympathy on this issue. He wrote about this victory in \"Telegraful Român\" of Transylvania and \"Concordia\" of Bukovina, persuading \"right-believing Romanians\" not to participate in the election of a Rajačić replacement. Nevertheless, Mocioni was disappointed with Șaguna, who did not back his plan for creating a new bishopric at Temeschwar. During this clash, he withdrew his financial support for the church historian Nicolae Tincu-Velea, who had to print his works with ASTRA.\n\nReturning to Arad, Mocioni helped establish there a National Culture and Enlightenment Association, presided upon by Prokopije Ivačković and Anton Mocioni. It received his collection of historical documents, and appointed him a delegate to Vienna, to thank the emperor for supporting Romanian culture. In 1863, his philanthropy expanded. He donated his only source of income, the revenue of Foeni, to the famine-stricken population of that village, and even ran into debt in his effort to provide for them. He was also interested in horse breeding, and one of his steeds became the ancestor of an equine string that populated much of Foeni.\n\nFor a while, the Romanians of Banat continued to plead with the emperor for Romanian self-rule in the Banat. One such petition, circulated in December 1863, also asked Franz Joseph to surround himself with Romanian advisers, including \"Andrea de Mocioni, lord of Foeni\", a man distinguished by \"political, patriotic, and national virtues\". As noted by historian Tudor-Radu Tiron, the restoration of Hungarian rule ultimately pushed the Mocionis back into Hungarian politics, which explains why Andrei, Anton and Gheorghe all took seats in the last Diet of Hungary (1865). Alexandru also won a Rittberg seat in that legislature, becoming known as the theoretician of national liberalism, and main proponent of a Nationalities Bill, which aimed at validating autonomous units for the Romanians in Hungary.\n\nBy then, the Mocionis' contribution to the national cause was being recognized in the United Principalities, customarily known as the \"Principality of Romania\". From January 1865, he was an honorary member of the nationalist \"Bucovina\" Society. On April 22, 1866, the Romanian Regency appointed Andrei Mocioni a founding member of the Romanian Academy (or \"Romanian Literary Society\", as it was known at the time). He was inducted as a Banat representative, alongside Babeș—who, in 1883, wrote Mocioni's biography. From 1861, the Mocionis and Babeș had cooperated in countering Hungarian nationalist propaganda abroad, publicizing the Romanian point of view. According to Babeș, their effort was sabotaged by Abdolonyme Ubicini, István Türr, and Giovenale Vegezzi Ruscalla, who wanted a Hungarian–Romanian alliance against Austria; but also found backing from László Teleki of the Resolution Party. With his parallel career as a lawyer, Babeș also helped the Mocionis win back 5 million forint from their Hungarian debtors, and was thereafter their trusted adviser.\nLater in 1866, echoes of Mocioni's \"Captaincy\" project were discernible in the radical proposal advanced in the Diet by Babeș, Sigismund Popoviciu, and Iosif Hodoșiu: it recognized subjection to the Hungarian crown and government, but sought to redefine Hungary on the basis of ethnic federalism and corporatism. These efforts also failed. By September 1866, Mocioni and Babeș began speaking out in the Diet about the wish of Austrian Romanians to be united with the Principality of Romania.\n\nThe 1866–1867 interval was a great disappointment for the various schools of Romanian nationalism: the return of Hungarian nationalism was unopposed following the Austro-Prussian War, and the \"Ausgleich\" of 1867 created Austria-Hungary, including most Romanian-inhabited areas into the Lands of the Crown of Saint Stephen. Mocioni was especially affected by the outcome. In the months following the new arrangement, Mocioni and Babeș participated in the drafting of another protest, also signed by the Diet's Serb, Slovak and \"Ruthenian\" deputies. The resolution, which demanded guarantees for the minorities, was supposed to be read by Mocioni. He stepped down to make way for a more popular deputy, the Serb Milán Manojlovics. Brother Anton Mocioni, alongside Serbs Stevan Branovački and Svetozar Miletić, continued to back the campaign, proposing to divide Hungary into six ethnic-based provinces.\n\nIn 1869, Andrei Mocioni withdrew from all activism and returned to Foeni. That year, an analysis in \"Der Wanderer\" newspaper noted that \"although Andrea Mocioni will forever remain the true leader\" of the Romanian caucus, Alexandru was emerging as the tactician, and moderating the Romanians' resistance to Hungarian nationalism. By then, the various factions seeking to form a Romanian National Party had only managed to establish a Transylvanian caucus and a Banatian one. The latter, presided upon by Anton Mocioni, recognized Hungarian rule and sought to obtain Romanian rights within its jurisdiction. An 1872 report to his partisans also claimed that Andrei and the other Mocionis were \"disgusted\" and \"demoralized\" by the behavior of Romanian electors in Lugoj and Krassó, who acted as \"proselytes of the [Hungarian] government\".\n\nMocioni also continued to be active as a sponsor and philanthropist, providing funds for Babeș's ethnological work, and for the Viennese Romanian newspaper, \"Albina\". He and his brothers published and wrote for the latter sheet, alongside Babeș, while also financing pro-Romanian campaigns in the German-language journal \"Ost und West\". Together with Visarion Roman and Partenie Cosma, they established in 1871 the Albina Bank of Sibiu, providing credit for Romanian businesses. At the time, Mocioni also provided funds in hopes of creating a Romanian regional theater, and became godfather of Andrei, the child of actors Mihail and Matilda Pascaly. The family as a whole provided a scholarship fund for disadvantaged children, managed by Babeș. Noted recipients include writer Gruia Liuba Murgu, biologist Victor Babeș, and lawyer Coriolan Brediceanu. The former deputy and the Hungarian post had an unsolved dispute about the creation of a Foeni post office, which the officials viewed as too costly. Mocioni took the postmaster examination and, at his own expense, erected a building which, with its mahogany furniture and silver inkwells, was recognized as \"the most elegant post office\".\n\nMocioni was still pressed by his friends to make a return to politics. He refused on principle, but allowed for a theoretical possibility: \"I shall no longer fight and sacrifice myself to the four winds, but will patiently wait for a national regeneration to begin, if ever.\" A local tradition, recorded in 1905 by the newspaper \"Tribuna\", noted that, by then, he and his Serb wife were detested by the local Romanians, who once attacked the manor and shattered its windows. According to a notice in the Arad Orthodox paper \"Biseric'a si Scóla\", Mocioni was also driven away from religious affairs after \"a mean gossiper libeled him, out of the blue and without a shred of truthfulness\".\n\nMocioni's health was failing, and for this reason he never attended any session of the Romanian Academy. From 1879, Mocioni's disease worsened, and, once bedridden, he was taken to Temeschwar to be under specialist care. Mocioni died on May 5 (April 23), 1880. Although some sources give his death place as Foeni, contemporary reports have it that he died in Temeschwar, after having lapsed into a brief coma, and while looked after by his wife Laura. Their marriage had produced no heirs.\n\nMocioni's body was taken to Foeni for an Orthodox burial at the common Serb–Romanian church, which he and his wife had furnished. Laura inherited all his wealth, which sparked a Mocioni family feud. Already a licensed postal worker, she continued Mocioni's work as a postmaster. She died on the estate in August 1892, aged 53, and was buried at his side. In her late years, she had carried on with Mocioni philanthropy work, but only servicing the local Serb community and punishing Romanian ingratitude. According to \"Tribuna\", the \"new generation\" of Romanians, \"more enlightened than the earlier one\", was expressing shame and regret for having alienated her. By then, a scandal had erupted over Mocioni's remains. The church remained a property of the Karlovci Patriarchy, which in 1900 refused to hand over the body for reburial in the Mocioni mausoleum. It cited texts which condemned the separation in death of husband and wife, but the Romanian press suspected that such resistance was proof of \"intolerant\" Serb nationalism. A separation was eventually made, and Andrei was reburied in the new location.\n\nThe various Mocioni estates went to brothers Alexandru and Eugen. Some were inherited by Eugen's sons, before passing to Ecaterina Mocioni and her husband, Jenő, Count Teleki; others went to the Bukovinan baron Ioan Mocsony-Stârcea, who was Alexandru's adoptive son. The core manor at Foeni was nevertheless inherited by the Csávossy counts, while his horses continued to be bred by the Austrians Jakob Haas and Ludwig Deutsch. The property was pillaged by peasants during the revolutionary events which marked the collapse of Austria-Hungary in 1918. According to one Romanian account, this incident provided the Hungarian Royal Gendarmerie with an excuse to murder Romanians.\n\nMost other assets were kept by the surviving family following the establishment of Greater Romania, when Anton Jr bought back the Foeni mansion, hoping to turn it into a cultural club. According to historian Vicențiu Bugariu, by 1930 Andrei Mocioni was already forgotten, a victim of \"ignorance and indifference\". This trend was censured by the Banat politician Sever Bocu. Although a critic of \"Mocionist\" conservatism in Austria-Hungary, during the interwar he became noted for his work to preserve and shed light on the family's contribution as a \"moral dynasty\". Bocu wrote Andrei Mocioni's profile as a study in national pedagogy, declaring that any Banatian unaware of the Mocionis' role \"is a Banatian in name only\". Mocioni, or any other of his relatives, is also mentioned in the dialectical Banatian poetry of the interwar. Samples include Gheorghe Gârda's \"Că tăt Bănatu-i fruncea!\" (\"And Yet the Banat Is Tops\") and Cassian R. Munteanu's \"Vicejî noștri\" (\"Our Braves\").\n\nWith the death of Anton Jr in 1943, the direct Mocioni lineage was extinguished; however, interest in the family was still kept alive by Bocu's nephew, the scholar Ion D. Suciu. In the 1950s, the estates were subject to nationalization under the communist regime, which turned the Foeni complex into a public bathhouse, and then into a storage room for chemicals. Following the Romanian Revolution of 1989, the mansion was re-purposed as a cultural club and mainly functioned as a disco, before being taken over by the local town hall. The communist and post-communist periods saw the Mocioni inheritance falling into disrepair, and the deposited collections were still being looted in 2003. In the latter period, busts of Andrei and Alexandru Mocioni were installed in Timișoara's Scudier Park.\n"}
{"id": "46627619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46627619", "title": "António Miguel Ferreira", "text": "António Miguel Ferreira\n\nAntónio Miguel Ferreira (born September 23, 1973) is a Portuguese businessperson and writer.\n\nFounder of Esoterica in 1994, the first private Internet service provider in Iberia (access & hosting), a business that he sold in 1999. Worked for VIA NET.WORKS Inc. (US-based Internet services multinational) as Director of European Network Services for Southern-Western Europe. Joined the Claranet group recognized by Gartner as a cloud-based managed hosting leader, a European networks and hosting managed service provider, in 2005, as managing director of the Portuguese subsidiary and member of the group’s senior management team.\n"}
{"id": "43481532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43481532", "title": "Arthur Rylands Lowe", "text": "Arthur Rylands Lowe\n\nArthur Rylands Lowe (22 June 1873 – 31 May 1924) was a British accountant and the first full-time professional accountant in Hong Kong.\n\nLowe was born on 22 June 1873 in Manchester. He was educated at the Hulme Grammar School and later joined Parkinson, Mather & Co., chartered accountants of Manchester and London. He moved to Hong Kong to join Butterfield & Swire in 1898. He resigned in 1902 to start up his own business.\n\nOn 2 June 1902, he became Hong Kong's first full-time professional accountant, and started the accountant firm that is today the Hong Kong office of PricewaterhouseCoopers. In 1903 he took fellow accountant J. E. Bingham as a partner. They established an office in Shanghai in 1906. When F. N. Matthews in Shanghai joined the partnership in 1908, the firm became known as Lowe, Bingham & Matthews. Under his leadership, its clients included the China Light and Power Co., Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, Hong Kong and Whampoa Dock, Jardine, Matheson & Co. and the Hong Kong and China Gas Co.. Lowe was also a director of Hongkong and Shanghai Hotels, Ltc. and secretary of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce for many years. \n\nLowe contested the Justice of the Peace election in 1920 for a seat in the Legislative Council of Hong Kong against T. F. Hough during the absence of H. E. Pollock. He was again appointed to the Legislative Council in July 1922 while H. W. Bird was on leave. Lowe was especially acquainted with financial matters in the Legislative Council and was involved in the discussions between the government and the Hong Kong Telephone Company over the renewal of the company's licence. He was also member of the Licensing Board and was made Justice of the Peace in March 1906.\n\nLowe was one of the leading members of the Royal Hong Kong Yacht Club and was the president of the Lawn Bowls Association of Hong Kong. He was also interested in pony racing. Lowe died from typhoid at 4:00 a.m. on 31 May 1924 at the Peak Hospital, aged 50.\n"}
{"id": "2848635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2848635", "title": "As is", "text": "As is\n\nAs is is a legal term used to disclaim some implied warranties for an item being sold. Certain types of implied warranties must be specifically disclaimed, such as the implied warranty of title. \"As is\" denotes that the seller is selling, and the buyer is buying an item in whatever condition it presently exists, and that the buyer is accepting the item \"with all faults\", whether or not immediately apparent. This is the classic \"buyer beware\" situation, where the careful buyer should take the time to examine the item before accepting it, or obtain expert advice.\n\nOn the other hand, the phrase \"as is\" does not disclaim express warranties, such as those created by the seller's description of an item. In other words, the item may be sold \"as is,\" but if the item does not conform to the seller's description, the buyer has a right to reject it.\n\nFor example, a seller of a used automobile sells his car to a buyer, and puts into the contract of sale the statement: \"The buyer accepts the automobile AS IS, WITH ALL FAULTS.\" Two minutes after the buyer drives off with it, the engine seizes, and the car stalls. Unless the buyer can show that there was some fraud involved, or the seller breached an express warranty, the buyer is not entitled to a refund. This would be a specific example where fraud in the inducement could outweigh anything in the contract, express or implied: it simply doesn't matter what disclaimer or limitations may be found in the contract, if the contract is void (or voidable) for any reason.\n\nDisgruntled buyers of real estate, and their respective improvements, may be faced with other complicated property law issues if a deed is conveyed as a result of a contract with an \"as is\" clause. In real estate, these are the larger potential problems than issues with the structure itself, which can be drawn out with an inspector. Searching public records is often difficult, and often done lazily by the seller; this means that the buyer may be burdened with liens on the home, and face various fees related to things such as public utilities.\n\nIn many jurisdictions disclaimer of various implied warranties is void. For instance, laws on consumer protection, and unfair contract terms may limit the ability of a manufacturer or seller to limit or exclude liability for various types of damage. See, for instance, the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 and Sale of Goods Act 1979.\n"}
{"id": "27565075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27565075", "title": "Asana (software)", "text": "Asana (software)\n\nAsana () is a web and mobile application designed to help teams organize, track, and manage their work. Forrester, Inc. reports that “Asana simplifies team-based work management.” It was founded in 2008 by Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz and ex-Google-and-Facebook engineer Justin Rosenstein, who both worked on improving the productivity of employees at Facebook. The product launched commercially in April 2012. The company was most recently valued at $900M.\n\nMoskovitz and Rosenstein left Facebook in 2008 to start Asana (named after a Sanskrit word meaning “yoga pose”), which officially launched for free out of beta in November 2011 and commercially in April 2012. The company announced that they had closed a $1.2 million angel round in the spring of 2011 from investors including Ron Conway, Peter Thiel, Mitch Kapor, Owen van Natta, Sean Parker, and former Facebook Director of Mobile Jed Stremel, followed by a $9 million USD Series A round in investment led by Benchmark Capital in late November 2011.\n\nOn July 23, 2012, Asana announced a $28 million Series B round of funding, led by Peter Thiel and Founders Fund, along with existing investors Benchmark, Andreessen-Horowitz, and Mitch Kapor, Thiel then also joined Asana's Board of Directors (3.1). According to an article in \"The New York Times\" and someone briefed on the funding, the investors valued the company at $280 million.\n\nOn March 30, 2016, Asana announced a $50m Series C round of funding, led by Y Combinator’s Sam Altman. Other investors ranged from Tony Hsieh to Mark Zuckerberg. The round valued the company at $600M.\n\nOn January 31, 2018, Asana announced a $75m Series D round of funding, led by Generation Investment Management. The round valued the company at $900M.\n\nAs of January 2018, Asana claims more than 35,000 paying customers, including AB-InBev, Viessmann, eBay, Uber, Overstock, Navy Federal Credit Union, Icelandair, and IBM.\n\nIn September 2018, Asana announced that it had reached 50,000 paying customers and a 90% YoY revenue growth rate.\n\nIn November 2018, the company raised $50M during the fifth round of funding, despite having another $75M earlier this year.\n\nAsana is a software-as-a-service designed to improve team collaboration and work management. It helps teams manage projects and tasks in one tool. Teams can create projects, assign work to teammates, specify deadlines, and communicate about tasks directly in Asana. It also includes reporting tools, file attachments, calendars, and more.\n\nIn May 2013, Asana launched Organizations, a way for companies of all sizes to use Asana, reporting tools to help teams monitor project progress, and IT admin tools.\n\nIn 2014, Asana launched Calendar View for projects and tasks, its native iOS app, and Dashboards.\n\nIn January 2015, Asana released its native Android app. Later that year, the company added team conversations. In September 2015, Asana unveiled a completely redesigned application and brand.\n\nIn 2016, Asana added administrator features including member management, team management, and password and security controls. Then, status updates were added so teams could communicate the state of a project to stakeholders, and task dependencies followed in July 2016. In September 2016, the company launched custom fields, “an interface and architecture that will let you tailor Asana’s information management to cover a variety of structured data points”. A few months later, Asana launched Boards so teams could organize and visualize their projects in columns. The Verge reported that, “By integrating lists and boards into a single product, Asana may have just vaulted ahead of its rivals.” The company also released pre-made project templates.\n\nIn March 2017, Asana announced its integration with Microsoft Teams, followed by the launch of custom project templates in June. In fall 2017, start dates, a new integration with Gmail, and comment-only projects were released. Also in November, Asana launched its app in French and German.\n\nAt the beginning of 2018, Asana launched a new CSV importer so teams could upload their data into the app. In February 2018, the app was released in Spanish and Portuguese. In March 2018, Asana announced a new interactive feature called Timeline, which business can use to visualize and map out their projects.\n\nIn April 2012, Asana released its API to third-party developers. Asana’s open API provides a means to programmatically read information in Asana, input information into Asana, and create automations within Asana. This allows customers or third-party developers to build on the Asana platform and customize Asana to the unique way their teams work. Common use cases include automating repetitive tasks, chaining processes, automating reporting on tasks and projects, and syncing with databases or other tools.\n\nThe Asana API is a RESTful interface, allowing you to update and access much of your data on the platform. It provides predictable URLs for accessing resources, and uses built-in HTTP features to receive commands and return responses. This makes it easy to communicate with a wide variety of environments, from command-line utilities to browser plugins to native applications.\n\nAsana has integrations with other SaaS tools, including Gmail, Slack, Microsoft Outlook, Dropbox, Box, Google Drive, Zapier, IFTTT, Wufoo, JotForm, Okta, OneLogin, Harvest, Instagantt, and Zendesk.\n\nAsana received a 4.5 / 5 from \"PC Magazine\" (October 13, 2017), which named it an Editors' Choice and called it \"one of the best collaboration and productivity apps for teams.\" The article remarked on Asana's \"thoughtful design, fluid interactive elements, and generous member allotment.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33040432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33040432", "title": "Bass Charrington Timeline", "text": "Bass Charrington Timeline\n\nThis page represents the time-line for the breweries of Charrington and Bass with the merges, takeovers and separations throughout their recorded history.\n"}
{"id": "20891303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20891303", "title": "Bidzina Ivanishvili", "text": "Bidzina Ivanishvili\n\nBidzina Ivanishvili (, also known as Boris Ivanishvili; born 18 February 1956) is a Georgian businessman and politician who was Prime Minister of Georgia from 25 October 2012 to 20 November 2013. He founded and led the Georgian Dream coalition, which won the 2012 parliamentary election. After the 2013 presidential election, he voluntarily resigned both his government and party positions, naming his long-time personal assistant Irakli Gharibashvili as his successor. On 26 April 2018, the incumbent chairperson of the Georgian Dream-Democratic Georgia party, PM Giorgi Kvirikashvili, announced that Ivanishvili would return as chairperson.\n\nDual citizen of Russian Federation and Georgia, latter granted by Saakashvili, In March 2010, Ivanishvili was granted another trio French citizenship. In October 2011, he was deprived of his Georgian citizenship \"according to Article 32 of the Georgian Law on Citizenship\", shortly after he had announced his intention to form a political party to challenge Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili.\n\nIn March 2012, Ivanishvili was ranked at number 153 in \"Forbes\" magazine's annual list of the world's billionaires with an estimated worth of $6.4 billion, making him Georgia's richest person, France ranking is unknown.\n\nBidzina Ivanishvili was born the youngest of five children to a poor family in the Georgian village of Chorvila. His father worked in a manganese factory. He graduated from high school in Sachkhere and went to Tbilisi State University to study engineering and economics. In 1982, he went to Moscow to pursue a Ph.D. in economics at the Moscow State University of Railway Engineering.\n\nPrior to 1990 while living in Moscow, Ivanishvili met Vitaly Malkin, a Russian businessman currently into politics, with whom he formed a partnership selling computers, and later importing what was then a novelty in Russia, push-button telephones. The source of his great wealth is metals and banking. Forbes magazine's description of the secret of his success could apply to dozens of other oligarchs in Russia: \"He bought firms not needed by anybody for tens of millions of dollars and sold them for billions of dollars.\" In 1990 he and Malkin set up \"Rossiysky Kredit\", which is up to now Ivanishvili's biggest holding. Over the years, he sold other businesses accumulated by him during the privatization era in Russia, investing the proceeds in the Russian stock market. He has also interests in hotels, including Hotel Lux, and in a Russian chain of drugstores called \"Doctor Stoletov\". He is also redeveloping a former factory in downtown Moscow into a deluxe housing project, the first blocks of which are to be completed by 2012. \n\nIn March 2010, he ranked 173 in 2010 Forbes List of Billionaires, with a reported net worth of 4.8 billion USD. The following year he ranked 185 in the 2011 Forbes List with a reported net worth of 5.5 billion USD. In March 2012, he ranked 153 in the 2012 Forbes List with a reported net worth of 6.4 billion USD; with his total net worth equaling one third of Georgia's Gross Domestic Product.\n\nIn April 2012, he established the Georgian Dream–Democratic Georgia party with the intention to challenge the ruling United National Movement in the parliamentary election scheduled for October 2012. The Georgian Dream coalition is composed of the Republican Party of Georgia, Our Georgia – Free Democrats, the National Forum, the Conservative Party of Georgia and the Industry Will Save Georgia party. The head of the latter party publicly acknowledged in April 2012 that he doesn't share all of Ivanishvili's views on foreign policy, especially when it comes to joining NATO.\n\nOn 11 June 2012, a USD 90.9 million fine was imposed on Ivanishvili for alleged violation of the Georgian legislation on party funding. Ivanishvili is also under investigation on charges of using his companies Burji, Elita Burji, and Global Consulting Group for political and electoral goals.\n\nIn the Offshore leaks revelations of ICIJ about global offshore networks Premier Ivanishvili is mentioned among the most prominent figures. The documents show, that he has been director of the front company Bosherston Overseas Corporation in the British Virgin Islands (2006), a front company which still exists. The premier did not deny this and his spokesman commented: \"For the reporting period of 2011-2012 Prime Minister Ivanishvili had no interest in the company you have mentioned in your inquiry and therefore there was no obligation to report it in his declaration. The Prime Minister takes these reporting requirements seriously and everything is done according to the law\".\n\nAlthough Ivanishvili officially retired from politics in late 2013, he continues to have influence on Georgian Dream. According to political scientist Kornely Kakachia, he is \"outside democratic control, outside institutional checks and balances, yet he is ultimately calling the shots, which puts Georgia in a vulnerable position both vis-à-vis democracy and foreign policy.\"\n\nBidzina Ivanishvili owns several estates, including a mansion above Tbilisi which was specially designed for him by Russian architect Mikhail Khazanov and finished by famous Japanese architect Shin Takamatsu which is worth an estimated $50 million.\n\nIvanishvili is also known by the Russian first name \"Boris\", which he previously used while working in Russia. He was widely reported under that name in the West. However, he has returned to his Georgian first name \"Bidzina\" in 2011.\n\nRecently Ivanishvili became the subject of some interest in the art world, following his reported purchases of works by Pablo Picasso and the contemporary artist Peter Doig at international auctions. Ivanishvili bought Niko Pirosmani's, \"Arsenal Hill at night\", paying a record $1.5 million for a painting by a Georgian artist. He then donated the painting to the State Museum of Arts of Georgia.\n\nBidzina Ivanishvili is married to Eka Khvedelidze. Two of his three sons have albinism, including Bera, a well-known singer and rapper in Georgia. \"Georgian Dream\" is a rap song by Bera and became an inspiration to his father who named the party he founded in 2012 Georgian Dream (full name Georgian Dream–Democratic Georgia) after his son's rap song.\n\n"}
{"id": "4401319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4401319", "title": "Broadhurst Theatre", "text": "Broadhurst Theatre\n\nThe Broadhurst Theatre is a Broadway theatre located at 235 West 44th Street in Midtown Manhattan.\n\nIt was designed by architect Herbert J. Krapp, a well-known theatre designer who had been working directly with the Shubert brothers; the Broadhurst opened September 27, 1917. Built back-to-back with the Majestic, it was meant to resemble the style of the neighboring Shubert and Booth theaters designed by Henry B. Herts, using less expensive brick and terra cotta materials on the discreetly neoclassical façades \n\nIt was named after George Howells Broadhurst, an Anglo-American dramatist who came to America in 1886. In addition to writing plays, he managed theaters in Milwaukee, Baltimore, and San Francisco before he decided to open his own in association with the Shubert brothers. The theatre was constructed to house both musicals and plays, which it has done successfully for more than a century. It has been designated a New York City landmark.\n\nThe Broadhurst opened on September 27, 1917 with George Bernard Shaw's \"Misalliance\", the first New York production of the philosophical 1910 comedy. It ran for only 52 performances and was not performed on Broadway again until 1953.\n\nRecent tenants include \"Les Misérables\", which in October 2006 began an intended six-month-long return engagement that finally closed in January 2008; and 2008 revivals of \"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof\", with an all-African American cast including Terrence Howard, Anika Noni Rose, James Earl Jones, and Phylicia Rashad, and \"Equus\", starring Daniel Radcliffe and Richard Griffiths. The theatre is also notable for hosting Jerry Seinfeld's final performance of his original stand up material, which was filmed for an HBO special shortly after the finale of his long-running sitcom.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43479136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43479136", "title": "Charles Henderson Ross", "text": "Charles Henderson Ross\n\nCharles Henderson Ross (23 July 1864 – 23 November 1919) was a Scottish businessman. He was the taipan of the Jardine, Matheson & Co. and member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong.\n\nRoss was born on 23 July 1864. He was the son of Captain Horatio Ross of Rossie and Christian Henderson, who died 1892, daughter of Charles P. Henderson of Whittington Hall, Lancashire. He spent many years in the East, first in India and later in Tsientsin and Shanghai. He volunteered in during the Boxer Rebellion in Tsientsin under the command of General Alfred Gaselee, the commander of the British troops sent to the relief of Peking, and was awarded the Boxer medal with two bars. He also served in the Shanghai light horse and was the head of the old Hongkong mounted troop.\n\nRoss joined the Jardine, Matheson & Co., the then biggest trading firm in the Far East. He moved to Hong Kong in 1910 was appointed by Henry Keswick as his substitute for all the purposes set out in a power of attorney of 5 September 1912. He was also member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong during Henry Keswick on leave from 1911 to 1913.\n\nHe was a Director of the Hongkong and Shanghai Bank and the Peak Tramways, Chairman of the Whampoa Dock Co. and the Hongkong and Kowloon Wharf Co., member of the Green Island Cement Co., Chairman of the Land Investment Agency and a Director of the Land Reclamation and the West Point Building Companies. He was particularly interested in various sugar, cotton, ice, insurance, and machinery companies for which Jardine Matheson were agents.\n\nHe helped founding the Hong Kong Scouts Company and took in charge of the training of the Scouts in the New Territories. He was also a Steward of the Hong Kong Jockey Club. He had acted as treasurer of the Coronation Fund, was prominently connected with the Horticultural Society's exhibition and donated a ground for a tennis court to the Y.M.C.A. at East Point.\n\nRoss left Hong Kong in 1913 by the SS \"Siberia\" as Manager of Jardine Matheson's company in London appointed by Henry Keswick on 30 September 1914. He also represented Hong Kong to the Imperial Council of Commerce in 1916. \n\nRoss died 23 November 1919 in London, leaving estate of the value of £78,000. He married Eveline Isabel Bernard, daughter of Edmund Bowen Bernard and Arabella Margaret Piercy in 1910.\n"}
{"id": "14707618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14707618", "title": "Comprehensive annual financial report", "text": "Comprehensive annual financial report\n\nA Comprehensive Annual Financial Report (CAFR) is a set of U.S. government financial statements comprising the financial report of a state, municipal or other governmental entity that complies with the accounting requirements promulgated by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB). GASB provides standards for the content of a CAFR in its annually updated publication \"Codification of Governmental Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards\". The U.S. Federal Government adheres to standards determined by the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB).\n\nA CAFR is compiled by a state, municipal or other governmental accounting staff and audited by an external American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) certified accounting firm utilizing GASB requirements. It is composed of three sections: Introductory, Financial and Statistical. It combines the financial information of fund accounting and Enterprise Authorities accounting.\n\nThe National Committee on Municipal Accounting (NCMA) was formed in 1934 by the Government Financial Officers Association to create accounting standards. As a result of its work, the 'Principles of Municipal Accounting', the predecessor to the CAFR, was created. The successor to the NCMA, the National Council on Governmental Accounting (NCGA), issued 'Governmental Accounting, Auditing and Financial Reporting', which is the basis of the format for the current standard. This document, known as the \"Blue Book\", and its successors documented the CAFR accounting structure and provided standardization and example documents. By 1946, the various levels of government—federal, state, local and municipal—each began producing a CAFR to catalog an accurate picture of institutional funds, enterprise or financial holdings, assets and total investment incomes for those government and nongovernmental entities using the report. This measure is above and beyond the budget process and replaced what was regularly an \"off-the-books\" practice called the \"general fixed-asset account group\". General Purpose government \"budget\" reports did not reflect accounting of this financial data, only reporting on the budget or \"rainy day\" funds or pension fund investments. By the 1970s, the CAFR became the nationwide paradigm for local government accounting.\n\nThe resulting CAFR is presented to the GFOA, which conducts each year a review of applicant local government CAFRs and upon review awards their Certificate of Achievement Award for Excellence in Financial Reporting to those local governments that are in compliance with their CAFR accounting standards of preparation. Presently, accounting principles for government entities are set by transmittal letters issued to local governments by the GASB.\n\nThe primary difference between a budget and a CAFR is a budget is a plan for a specific fiscal period (often a year) primarily showing where tax income is to be allocated. The CAFR contains the results of the period (year) with previous years accumulations. A CAFR shows the total of all financial accounting that a general purpose budget reports does not. The CAFR contains a section that provides a comparison of period budget and actual. Additionally, the CAFR gives a detailed showing of investment accounts by category reflecting balances over previous years, or in plain language using a personal example in comparison would be the difference between: Your house Budget for the year vs your statement of \"Net Worth\" covering the financial accounting over your lifetime. 1-year vs your lifetime.\n\nA Government budget document is a blueprint for a \"specific grouping\" of government agencies' spending over the course of an annual financial period. General Purpose Budgets contain both the spending categories of specified units of government, such as school districts, social services, transportation, courts, police, fire, and park services; along with estimates of revenues expected to occur during the year, such as investment return; due from other funds, overrides of money from the previous year, and tax payments. They are usually more limited to the expected costs of running the aforementioned government operations through tax income as opposed to describing the status of any government fixed assets and investment wealth.\n\nA CAFR is a report of the complete overall financial results not just for the year but what has accumulated since the inception of that local government of both those \"specific groupings\" of government agencies that appear in the current fiscal year General Purpose Budget and all other agencies and departments. These can be autonomous, enterprise (for example government or city owned golf courses), recycling, water, sewer, and financial management - often these agencies were created with the inception of that local, state or government. The CAFR provides information about all of these other government agencies that may have their own budgets and separate investment accounts but their financial holdings are \"not\" combined with the general purpose budget that the same government presents to the public. The CAFR, or as it is called in CANADA CanFR can be used along with a budget document to compare the organizations total financial standing to the annual general purpose budget. The CAFR is the complete showing of the financial investment and income records from all sources, that reflects what has developed over decades whereas a budget report is an inferior document to the CAFR being that it is primarily focused on what revenue is expected to be brought in and spent for just the year.\n\nIn contrast with the rules applying to governments, publicly traded US companies are required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), to provide their Annual Financial Report (AFR) to every shareholder each year. Government's accounting falls under GAP (Generally Accepted Procedures)overseen by GASB.org for government accounting. US Companies have their own standards of accounting which would not be accepted by the SEC if US Companies attempted to use local Government's GAP accounting. To view the GASB.org accounting changes in local government CAFR GAP accounting, a short version of each change going back to 1984 can be viewed here - \n\nNews stories covering financial issues of government cite \"rainy day funds\" or special \"ear marked\" funds, loans between government entities, sales of government holdings in, for example, shares of a health care insurance company, self insurance management funds, debt repayment funds that can be up to 40% of the debt itself, and then the \"budget\" is often referred to, along with mentions of pension funds investments, but the full accounting of assets of government entities, the \"CAFR\" is typically not mentioned.\n\n\"Alternative\" media, since the late 1990s, has exposed segments of the public to the subject of the (U.S.) CAFR contributing to the topic being labeled as \"conspiracy theory\" or \"soap box\" issue. In all reality, local government's \"Net Worth\" accounting document, the CAFR is a mandatory review document for any responsible taxpaying citizen.\n\nReporting on government financial issues can be seen as sensationalized in dealing with alleged excesses in spending or tucked away wealth held not clearly visible in the budgetary accounting. A $10,000 dollar Christmas tree for example, or vague mentions of \"many billions\" in referring to issues around the road improvement, self-insurance, debt repayment, and pension funds managed by a state. \n\nThe State of TX based on good due diligence to its residents publishes a \"Cash Report\" that lists all funds managed by the state. The 2014 TX Cash Report can be viewed here - In one recent series of reports, the Kentucky Association of Counties whose spending came under scrutiny by the Lexington Herald-Leader provided some awareness of these types of entities as well as their surpluses and the claimed spending excesses while using money acquired from government fees for products like municipal insurance at premium rates, which build surpluses beyond the needs of the entity.\n\nTypical topics of the alternative media may include examples of: government entities financing each other's bond issues; Orange County California's or other divisions of government investments in derivatives; financial deals that are kept from the public to entice businesses to locate in a state, which may include tax incentives in exchange for stock assets in a company. \nMuch of both the mainstream and alternative media coverage of the topic of government financial issues must be considered a factor in public's confidence towards issues of government accountability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185993", "title": "Conspicuous consumption", "text": "Conspicuous consumption\n\nConspicuous consumption is the spending of money on and the acquiring of luxury goods and services to publicly display economic power—of the income or of the accumulated wealth of the buyer. To the conspicuous consumer, such a public display of discretionary economic power is a means of either attaining or maintaining a given social status.\n\nThe development of Thorstein Veblen's sociology of conspicuous consumption produced the term invidious consumption, the ostentatious consumption of goods that is meant to provoke the envy of other people; and the term conspicuous compassion, the deliberate use of charitable donations of money in order to enhance the social prestige of the donor, with a display of superior socio-economic status.\n\nThe economist and sociologist Thorstein Veblen (1857–1929) introduced the term \"conspicuous consumption\" in 1899 in his book \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study in the Evolution of Institutions\". Veblen described the behavioural characteristics of the \"nouveau riche\" (new rich) social class which emerged as a result of capital accumulation during the Second Industrial Revolution ( 1860–1914). In that nineteenth-century social and historical context, the term \"conspicuous consumption\" applied narrowly in association with the men, women, and families of the upper class who applied their great wealth as a means of publicly manifesting their social power and prestige, either real or perceived.\n\nIn the twentieth century the significant improvement of the material standard-of-living of societies and the consequent growth of the middle class saw the term \"conspicuous consumption\" broadly applied to the men, women, and households who possessed the discretionary income that allowed them to practice the patterns of economic consumption—of goods and services—which were motivated by the desire for prestige, the public display of social status, rather than by the intrinsic, practical utility of the goods and the services proper. In the 1920s economists, such as Paul Nystrom (1878–1969), proposed that changes in the style of life, made feasible by the economics of the industrial age, had induced in the mass of society a \"philosophy of futility\" that would increase the consumption of goods and services as a social fashion – i.e. an activity done for its own sake. In that context, commentators discuss \"conspicuous consumption\" either as a behavioural addiction or as a narcissistic behaviour, or as both, emphasising the psychological conditions induced by consumerism—the desire for the immediate gratification of hedonic expectations.\n\nSociologically, conspicuous consumption was thought to comprise socio-economic behaviours practiced by rich people; yet economic research indicated that conspicuous consumption is a socio-economic behaviour common to the poor social-classes and economic groups, and common to the societies of countries with emerging economies. Among such people, displays of wealth are used to psychologically combat the impression of poverty, usually because such men and women belong to a socio-economic class society perceives as poor. In \"The Millionaire Next Door: The Surprising Secrets of America's Wealthy\" (1996), Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko reported that Americans with a net worth of more than one million dollars are likely to avoid conspicuous consumption, and that millionaires tend to practice frugality - for example, preferring to buy used cars with cash rather than new cars with credit, in order to avoid material depreciation and paying interest for a loan to buy a new car.\n\nConspicuous compassion, the practice of publicly donating large sums of money to charity to enhance the social prestige of the donor, is sometimes described as a type of conspicuous consumption. This behaviour has long been recognised and sometimes attacked—for example, the New Testament story \"Lesson of the widow's mite\" criticises wealthy people who make large donations ostentatiously while praising poorer people who make small but comparatively more difficult donations in private.\n\nAs proposed by Thorstein Veblen in the 19th century, conspicuous consumption (spending money to buy goods and services for their own sake) explains the psychological mechanics of a consumer society, and the increase in the number and the types of the goods and services that people consider necessary to and for their lives in a developed economy.\n\nSupporting interpretations and explanations of contemporary conspicuous consumption are presented in \"Consumer Culture\" (1996), by C. Lury, \"Consumer Culture and Modernity\" (1997), by D. Slater, \"Symbolic Exchange and Death\" (1998), by Jean Baudrillard, and \"Spent: Sex, Evolution, and the Secrets of Consumerism\" (2009), by Geoffrey Miller. Moreover, \"Hiding in the Light\" (1994), by D. Hebdige, proposed that conspicuous consumption is a form of displaying a personal identity, and a consequent function of advertising, as proposed in \"Ads, Fads, and Consumer Culture\" (2000), by A. A. Berger.\n\nEach variant interpretation and complementary explanation is derived from Thorstein Veblen's original sociologic proposition in \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\": that conspicuous consumption is a psychological end in itself, from which the practitioner (man, woman, family) derived the honour of superior social status.\n\n\n\nHigh levels of conspicuous consumption may be seen as socially undesirable on two grounds; firstly, as it is often associated with high relative income, high levels of conspicuous consumption may be an indicator of high levels of income inequality, which may be found intrinsically or instrumentally objectionable; secondly conspicuous consumption differs from other forms of consumption in that the main reason for the purchase of positional goods is not due to the additional direct utility provided by the goods alleged high quality, but rather the social prestige associated with the consumption of that good. One downside of this search for status is that individual purchases of positional goods may at a social level be self-defeating due to external effects. In this case, the externality is status anxiety, the loss of social status suffered by people whose stock of high-status goods (positional goods) is diminished, in relation to the stocks of other conspicuous consumers, as they increase their consumption of high-status goods and services; effectively, status-seeking is a zero-sum game—by definition, the rise of one person in the social hierarchy can occur only at the expense of other people. Therefore, the conspicuous consumption of luxury goods and services (positional goods) is an economic loss—like competitive military spending (an arms race), wherein each country must match the military expenditures of other countries in the arms race, or suffer a loss of relative military power. In the case of conspicuous consumption, taxes upon luxury goods diminish societal expenditures on high-status goods, by rendering them more expensive than non-positional goods. In this sense, luxury taxes can be seen as a market failure correcting Pigovian tax—with an apparent negative deadweight loss, these taxes are a more efficient mechanism for increasing revenue than 'distorting' labour or capital taxes.\n\nA luxury tax applied to goods and services for conspicuous consumption is a type of progressive sales tax that at least partially corrects the negative externality associated with the conspicuous consumption of positional goods. In \"Utility from Accumulation\" (2009), Louis Kaplow said that assets exercise an objective social-utility function, i.e. the rich man and the rich woman hoard material assets, because the hoard, itself, functions as status goods that establish his and her socio-economic position within society. When utility is derived directly from accumulation of assets, this lowers the dead weight loss associated with inheritance taxes and raises the optimal rate of inheritance taxation.\n\nIn place of luxury taxes, the economist Robert H. Frank proposed the application of a progressive consumption tax; in the article \"The Big City: Rich and Poor, Consumed by Consuming\" (1998), John Tierney said that as a remedy for the social and psychological malaise that is conspicuous consumption, the personal income tax should be replaced with a progressive tax upon the yearly sum of discretionary income spent on the conspicuous consumption of goods and services. Another option is the redistribution of wealth, either by means of an incomes policy - for example the conscious efforts to promote wage compression under variants of Social corporatism such as the Rehn–Meidner model and/or by some mix of progressive taxation and transfer policies, and provision of public goods. Because the activity of conspicuous consumption, itself, is a form of superior good, diminishing the income inequality of the income distribution by way of an egalitarian policy reduces the conspicuous consumption of positional goods and services. In \"Wealth and Welfare\" (1912), the economist A. C. Pigou said that the redistribution of wealth might lead to great gains in social welfare:\n\nThe economic case for the taxation of positional, luxury goods has a long history; in the mid-19th century, in \"Principles of Political Economy with some of their Applications to Social Philosophy\" (1848), John Stuart Mill said:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "124032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=124032", "title": "Creighton, Nebraska", "text": "Creighton, Nebraska\n\nCreighton is a city in Knox County, Nebraska, United States. The population was 1,154 at the 2010 census.\n\nCreighton was platted in 1874. It was named in honor of John A. Creighton.\n\nCreighton is located at (42.465112, -97.907191).\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of , all of it land.\n\nAt the 2010 census, there were 1,154 people, 538 households and 299 families residing in the city. The population density was . There were 599 housing units at an average density of . The racial makeup of the city was 97.1% White, 0.3% African American, 0.6% Native American, 0.3% Asian, 0.1% from other races, and 1.6% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.0% of the population.\n\nThere were 538 households of which 23.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 43.7% were married couples living together, 8.0% had a female householder with no husband present, 3.9% had a male householder with no wife present, and 44.4% were non-families. 41.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 25.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.07 and the average family size was 2.83.\n\nThe median age was 47.7 years. 22.4% of residents were under the age of 18; 6% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 17.6% were from 25 to 44; 24% were from 45 to 64; and 30.2% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup was 44.9% male and 55.1% female.\n\nAt the 2000 census, there were 1,270 people, 559 households and 342 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,079.8 per square mile (415.6/km²). There were 614 housing units at an average density of 522.0 per square mile (200.9/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 98.11% White, 0.39% African American, 1.10% Native American, 0.08% Asian, 0.08% from other races, and 0.24% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.16% of the population.\n\nThere were 559 households of which 24.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.5% were married couples living together, 5.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 38.8% were non-families. 36.1% of all households were made up of individuals and 22.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.19 and the average family size was 2.87.\n\n23.0% of the population were under the age of 18, 4.4% from 18 to 24, 21.3% from 25 to 44, 21.7% from 45 to 64, and 29.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 46 years. For every 100 females, there were 85.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 83.1 males.\n\nThe median household income was $27,763 and the median family income was $38,667. Males had a median income of $25,156 compared with $16,667 for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,293. About 7.4% of families and 10.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 3.7% of those under age 18 and 13.1% of those age 65 or over.\n\n\nThis climatic region is typified by large seasonal temperature differences, with warm to hot (and often humid) summers and cold (sometimes severely cold) winters. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Creighton has a humid continental climate, abbreviated \"Dfa\" on climate maps.\n"}
{"id": "53244588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53244588", "title": "Curt Nicolin", "text": "Curt Nicolin\n\nCurt René Nicolin (10 March 1921 – 8 September 2006) was a Swedish businessman. He served as the chairman of ASEA and the Swedish Employers Association.\n\nNicolin was born in Stockholm, Sweden, the son of Felix Nicolin and his wife Anna Lisa (née Rehné). He passed \"studentexamen\" at Sigtunaskolan Humanistiska Läroverket in 1941 and graduated from the Royal Institute of Technology in 1945. He was recruited by the Wallenberg family as an engineer at Svenska Turbinfabriks AB Ljungström (STAL) in Finspång the same year, to lead the development of a Swedish jet engine. He got acquanted with Fredrik Ljungström, thanks to whom he debuted at the Nobel Banquet, and to whom who he later authored a obituary.\n\nNicolin became vice CEO and technical manager there in 1953. Nicolin was CEO of STAL from 1955 to 1959 and of Turbin AB de Laval Ljungström from 1959 to 1961. In 1961, the Wallenberg family appointed Nicolin as CEO of ASEA, the crown jewel in the Swedish engineering industry. At the same time, the Wallenberg's lent him to clean up the loss-making airline Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) as its CEO from 1961 to 1962. Back at ASEA he took the task of decentralizing the hierarchically-built old engineering company and dividing it into divisions. It was during a period when the new semiconductor technique increased in importance. During Nicolin's time at ASEA, the decision on the Swedish nuclear light-water reactors came. ASEA came to build nine of the twelve Swedish reactors and also two Finnish.\n\nNicolin was in the 1960s a board member of ASEA, SAS, Swedish Intercontinental Airlines (SILA), Incentive AB, AB C E Johansson, Swedish Employers Association and the Swedish Mechanical Association (\"Sveriges Mekanförbund\"). In 1976, Marcus Wallenberg Jr. retired from the position of chairman of ASEA and the post was transferred to Nicolin. Nicolin was also chairman of the board of the Swedish Employers Association from 1976 to 1984. At ASEA together with the new CEO since 1980, Percy Barnevik, Nicolin participated in the preparations for the big merger with the Swiss Brown, Boveri & Cie. Nicolin was its chairman until the merger in 1991, the same year he became honorary chairman. After ASEA's merger with Brown, Boveri & Cie, Nicolin was chairman of the board of ABB Asea Brown Boveri from 1988 to 1991. He was also chairman of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee at OECD (BIAC) from 1984 and chairman of the board of ESAB AB, Fläkt AB and SILA. Furthermore, Nicolin was Swedish chairman of the board of SAS from 1973 to 1991, vice chairman of AB Aerotransport's working committee and of Swedish Match as well as board member of a number of Swedish and foreign companies and organisations.\n\nIn 1946, Nicolin married Ulla-Britt Sandén (born 1924), the daughter of merchant Fridolf Sandén and Svea (née Johansson). He was the father of Clas (born 1948), Marie (born 1951), Tomas (born 1954), Magnus (born 1956) and Charlotte (born 1958).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43059328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43059328", "title": "David Rose (real estate developer)", "text": "David Rose (real estate developer)\n\nDavid Rose (1892–1986) was an American real estate developer and philanthropist who co-founded Rose Associates.\n\nRose was born to a Jewish family in Jerusalem one of six siblings. His family immigrated in the 1890s and he then worked as a sales catalog buyer for a clothing store working in the Garment District in New York City when - inspired by an uncle who purchased real estate - he founded Roses Associates with his brother, Samuel B., in 1927. In 1928, they completed their first building, a six-story, 218-unit building and within two years had completed more than 900 apartments. In 1930, they built the 500-unit Academy Apartments in the Bronx, the first apartment building built of reinforced concrete. After the Depression, they began building apartments in Manhattan. One of his most prominent buildings was the Bankers Trust Company at 280 Park Avenue at 48th Street.\n\nThe Rose family went on to become one of the most established and prominent real estate families in New York City in the 20th century (along with the Dursts, the Lefraks, the Rudins, and the Tisch family). In 2006, Rose Associates, managed over 31,000 apartments in New York City including Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village.\n\nRose was dedicated to supporting the development of new medical devices. He financed the design and construction of the first hyperbaric chamber in New York City at Mount Sinai Hospital. He established the Foundation for Medical Technology, which finances medical instrumentation research; and he funded Dr. Willem Kolff in the development of the first production portable, artificial kidney. Rose also contributed to the building of Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem and the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, California. He also served as a trustee of the New School for Social Research and of the Bronx YM-YWHA.\n\n"}
{"id": "57014243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57014243", "title": "Elmedin Ademi", "text": "Elmedin Ademi\n\nElmedin Ademi is an Albanian entrepreneur in Macedonia. He is the founder and CEO of Screen Media and a co-founder of the construction company EUROVIA. Since 2015, Screen Media is the first in the advertising industry, based on the annual turnover base. Elmedin was named as one of the most important Business Entrepreneurs in Macedonia in 2015. In 2016 he was appointed as the winner of the national prize for Macedonia at the European Business Awards. The England Foundation, ACCOLA, in 2017 in partnership opportunities engaged professional evaluates and Ademi's businesses valued at 12 million euros.\n\nHe was born on June 26, 1988 in the city of Tetovo. He has completed secondary school in the hometown of Tetovo. Performs studies at the University of South East European at Computer Science (SEEU). \n\nAt age 13, he developed an interest in computers. He taught computer programming himself and when he was 16, he launched several web sites for various companies in Macedonia.\n\nIn 2008 it started with Private Business in the field of marketing, respectively advertising with outdoor advertising, Screen Media, being one of the most successful in Macedonia in this field. In order to strengthen the leadership of the family company, during 2012 his family will hand over to Eurovia, a family company established since 1978, specialized in the design and construction. Since then, he has focused on construction work and real estate. \n\nIn 2016, he signed an exclusive agreement with the New Coun Countrytry – Tirana to be a general importer of all AMA products (caffe, capsule, iced cafe, turkish cafe) for Macedonia. At the beginning of 2018 launches a commercial online project with coffee products, respectively the brands Cafeitaly and Ama, where it will have tremendous success.\n\n"}
{"id": "9657176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9657176", "title": "Event to knowledge", "text": "Event to knowledge\n\nEvent to knowledge (E2K) is an accounting metric that measures the time from when an event occurs to when the responsible person knows about it. The shorter the average E2K time, the more timely an organization’s financial information will be.\n\nTimeliness is one of the most important characteristics of financial information. The more timely information is, the more relevant it is to the reader. E2K helps organizations focus and improve their internal accounting processes.\n\nE2K measures a number of events. Firstly, it considers the time for a sub-ledger or supporting system to record an event. If a sub-ledger performs no reporting on its own and it posts to the general ledger on a batch basis (nightly, weekly, monthly, etc.); then this will elongate the E2K time.\n\nThe faster the general ledger can report the impact of an event, the smaller the E2K value. Waiting for all accounting journals to be posted, balancing, reconciliation and producing paper reports adds to the E2K time.\n\nThere are two key E2K measures, the maximum and average E2K values. The maximum value is the time from when the first transaction is entered in a system during a new fiscal period to when it is reported. An average E2K time may be for an entire system or a sub-component. For example, E2K can be reported by each sub-ledger (accounts payable, payroll, manufacturing, etc.) or for the entire system.\n\nOrganizations can reduce their E2K time through a number of strategies: \n1. Implementing and upgrading systems to take advantage of faster close cycles \n2. Use of workflow technologies to communicate exceptions and critical events to those responsible\n3. Reporting Marts and the like away from the OLTP system for internal reporting\n4. Adjust accounting cycles to natural business cycles. \n5. Benchmark and set targets to improve current practice.\n\nEvent to knowledge \nFrank Potter. CMA Management. Hamilton:Jul/Aug 2001. Vol. 75, Iss. 5, p. 33–37 (6 pp.)\n"}
{"id": "1477776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1477776", "title": "F Market &amp; Wharves", "text": "F Market &amp; Wharves\n\nThe F Market & Wharves line is one of several light rail lines in San Francisco, California. Unlike most other lines in the system, the F line runs as a heritage streetcar service, almost exclusively using historic equipment both from San Francisco's retired fleet as well as from cities around the world (although busses are added during peak commute hours). While the F line is operated by the San Francisco Municipal Railway (Muni), its operation is supported by Market Street Railway, a nonprofit organization of streetcar enthusiasts which raises funds and helps to restore vintage streetcars.\n\nDespite its heritage status, the F Market & Wharves line is an integral part of Muni's intermodal urban transport network, operating at frequent intervals for 20 hours a day, seven days a week. It carries local commuters and tourists alike, linking residential, business and leisure oriented areas of the city. Unlike the San Francisco cable car system, the cheaper standard Muni fare system applies.\n\nCable car operations along Market Street began in 1888. Service was electrified 1906.\n\nIn 1915, the San Francisco Municipal Railway started the F-Stockton route, which ran from Laguna (later Scott) and Chestnut Streets in the Marina down Stockton Street to 4th and Market Streets near Union Square, later extended to the Southern Pacific Depot (currently the Caltrain Depot) in 1947. The streetcar line was discontinued in 1951 and was replaced by the 30-Stockton route, which still runs today.\n\nThe F-line designation was therefore available for use by the current line, although that service is over a completely different route from the F-line of 1915 to 1951.\n\nMarket Street is a major transit artery for the city of San Francisco, and has carried in turn horse-drawn streetcars, cable cars and electric streetcars. In the 1960s construction began on the Market Street Subway, which would carry BART's trains on its lower level. All streetcar lines currently operating in the subway previously ran on the surface of Market Street, and were eventually diverted into the upper level of the tunnel. This diversion, together with the provision of new light rail cars, resulted in today's Muni Metro system.\n\nThe diversion of the Market Street streetcar lines into tunnel and the replacement of the existing streetcars with new light rail cars was completed by November 1982. However, the street trackage on Market Street was retained, and many of the old streetcars were still in storage.\n\nIn 1982, San Francisco's cable car lines were shut down for almost two years to allow for a major rebuild. Temporary weekend historic streetcar service started on July 3, 1982 as part of 4th of July celebrations and ran until September of that year. To provide a more regular alternative tourist attraction during this period, the San Francisco Historic Trolley Festivals began in 1983. These summertime operations of vintage streetcars on Market Street were a joint project of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce and Muni.\n\nThe trolley festival route went from the Transbay Terminal at First and Mission Streets to Market, then up the retained Market Street tracks to Duboce Avenue. From there, it followed a 'temporary' streetcar detour built in the 1970s to bypass subway construction under Market: Duboce, Church Street, and 17th Street to Castro.\n\nThe Trolley Festival proved so successful it was repeated every year until 1987. In that year, preparation began for the introduction of a permanent F line. After that year’s festival finished, Muni replaced the old Market Street tracks with new ones, restoring tracks to upper Market Street and recreating a line to Castro. Different types of vintage streetcars were evaluated to provide the backbone of the F-line fleet, resulting in the decision to use the PCC car, due in part to its historic San Francisco transit use. Fourteen such cars were acquired second-hand from Philadelphia to add to three of Muni’s own retired double-ended PCCs.\n\nOn September 1, 1995, the F line opened with a parade of PCC cars, painted to represent some of the two dozen North American cities that this type of streetcar once served. Ridership exceeded expectations and the \"8-Market\" was finally completely discontinued on December 29, 1995. At that point in history, this was a rare instance in which a streetcar replaced a bus line in operation, rather than the other way around. The need for extra cars resulted in the acquisition of ten Peter Witt style cars just being retired in the city of Milan, Italy. These cars were built in the 1920s to a design once common in North American cities, and their sister cars are still widely used on the Milan tramway network.\nThe Embarcadero is the eastern waterfront roadway of San Francisco, along San Francisco Bay. At one time busy with port and ferry related traffic, it fell into decline as freight transferred to the container terminals of Oakland and the Bay Bridge replaced the ferries. In the 1960s the elevated Embarcadero Freeway was built above, dividing the city from the bay, but was condemned and demolished after the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. Proposals for streetcar service along The Embarcadero were put forward as early as 1974, and historic streetcar service along The Embarcadero was first provided during the 1987 Trolley Festival, using existing Belt Railroad tracks on The Embarcadero and towed diesel generators to provide power.\n\nWith increasing development of the waterfront for leisure and tourist activities, and the existence of Fisherman's Wharf and Pier 39 at its northern end, it was decided to rebuild the Embarcadero as a tree-lined boulevard complete with a streetcar reservation. The section north of Market Street was to be served by an extension of the F line. \nTracks were extended on the northern end of Market to connect with the Embarcadero tracks. In March 2000, service on the F line began along the new extension to Fisherman's Wharf.\n\nA month later, Muni dedicated a car to Herb Caen, the noted columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle perhaps most famous for coining the phrase \"Baghdad by the Bay\" to describe The City. The car, Streetcar No. 130, which was originally delivered in 1914, contains wood paneling and is decorated with many quotes from Caen.\n\nThe trolleys operate continuously, reversing direction via loops at the ends of the line. Although the cars are able to utilize the tunnels, the F-line operates on the street level. Along Market Street, trolleys stop at street level above nearby BART and Muni Metro stations located below street level. The stations and stops are as follows (connections to other routes are noted):\n\nExcept for the height of certain platforms (mostly on the T Third Street line), F Market & Wharves line cars are fully compatible with the rest of the Muni Metro system. Indeed, the cars can be privately chartered and are operated all over the system.\n\nMuni owns a large selection of equipment for use on the F line, although not all of them are in service at the same time. The car fleet includes four sub-fleets: PCC streetcars, Peter Witt streetcars, pre-PCC veteran streetcars from San Francisco, and a diverse collection of 10 streetcars and trams from various overseas operators.\n\nThe line is principally operated by a mixture of the PCC and Peter Witt cars, although other more unusual or historic cars are often in service (including the 913 and 952, iconic streetcars named Desire). Although the modern Muni LRVs are not compatible with F-line service because the overhead line is not compatible with pantograph operation, Boeing LRVs have operated down parts of Market Street one or more times.\n\nA fleet of PCC streetcars from San Francisco, Philadelphia, and Newark, built between 1946 and 1948, operate on the line. , MUNI was operating 27 of these cars, restored to various states of service. Among the restored cars in service, three are original San Francisco double-ended PCC cars. Another 16 cars are single-ended cars acquired from SEPTA in Philadelphia in 1992 (which continues to operate another 18 cars today, retrofitted for ADA compliance), while the remaining 11 cars are single-ended cars acquired from New Jersey Transit in Newark in 2002.\n\nMUNI has another 30 unrestored PCC cars in long-term storage. The unrestored cars include five additional San Francisco double-ended cars, 10 San Francisco single-ended cars, 12 single-ended cars acquired from St. Louis in 1957, two single-ended cars from Philadelphia, and two single-ended cars from Pittsburgh. A further previously restored car from Philadelphia was written off after a traffic accident in 2003.\n\nMany of the restored cars are painted in the color schemes of prominent past and present PCC streetcar operators, including Muni itself and other transit systems.\n\nMuni operates a fleet of Peter Witt streetcars on the line, acquired from Milan, Italy. There are 11 of these cars, all built in 1928 to an Italian derivative of a common streetcar design that operated in many US cities, although never previously in San Francisco.\n\nMost of San Francisco's Peter Witt cars are currently painted in the overall orange color scheme that they carried in Milan, although one has been repainted into its original livery of yellow and white with black trim, while another is in the two-tone green livery that the cars carried from the 1930s to the 1970s.\n\nThe F-Line fleet also includes a fleet of pre-PCC vintage cars built between 1895 and 1924 for use in San Francisco. Three passenger cars were built for Muni itself, and a further two for the independent Market Street Railway Company that ran competing streetcar services in San Francisco until acquired by Muni in 1944. The final car is a works flat car, built for Muni in 1916 and used for hauling rails, ties, and other materials needed to maintain a streetcar system.\n\nThe cars carry a variety of former San Francisco streetcar color schemes.\n\nThe Muni's international fleet on the F-Line includes a diverse collection of 10 cars from various operators worldwide:\n\nAll the cars carry the color schemes of their original operators, except for the Brussels car, which currently carries a color scheme paying tribute to San Francisco's twin city of Zürich in Switzerland (the streetcars actually in use in Zürich use meter-gauge and therefore cannot be moved to San Francisco). The Moscow trams had to be equipped with trucks.\n\nMuni completed a technical feasibility study to extend the F-Line from the vicinity of the existing Jones Street terminal with the assistance of the National Park Service in December 2004. The extended line would extend westward alongside the San Francisco Maritime Museum and Aquatic Park and then through the historic (1914) but disused single-track Fort Mason Tunnel, formerly owned by the State Belt Railroad.\n\nAn Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the extension, again led by the National Park Service, commenced in May 2006, resulting in:\n\nThe final document classified areas west of the Fort Mason Tunnel as having \"inadequate regional transit access...limited transportation options for transit-dependent residents...[and] infrastructure constraints impacting effectiveness and operations of Fort Mason Center.\" The Final EIS named a double-tracked extension along Beach Street, a jog north to Aquatic Park, then across Van Ness Avenue to single-tracked service through a retrofitted Fort Mason Tunnel and to a terminus in the Fort Mason Center parking lot as the \"preferred alternative\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5236348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5236348", "title": "Frost line (polymers)", "text": "Frost line (polymers)\n\nThe frost line is a term used in plastic film manufacturing by extrusion. It refers to the point beyond the die where the temperature of the molten plastic falls below the softening point and the diameter of the extruded plastic bubble stabilizes. The term was borrowed from the notion of \"frost line\" in soil science and refers to the frosted appearance of the plastic film above the \"frost line\".\n\nThe distance from the die is called the height of the frost line. It depends on various factors, including the melt temperature, the speed of cooling, the extrusion speed, and the diameter of the bubble. The notion is important, since the higher the frost line, the more difficult to control the uniformity of the film thickness.\n\nFor example, a higher frost line due to higher melt temperature and/or lower cooling rate means a longer time to solidify, and a more smooth and transparent film is produced.\n"}
{"id": "2193944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193944", "title": "General Electric Building", "text": "General Electric Building\n\nThe General Electric Building, also known as 570 Lexington Avenue, is a historic 50-floor, -tall, skyscraper in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, at the southwest corner of Lexington Avenue and 51st Street). Originally known as the RCA Victor Building when designed in 1931 by John W. Cross of Cross & Cross, it is sometimes known by its address to avoid confusion with the much later renaming – in 1988 – of the RCA Building at 30 Rockefeller Plaza as the \"GE Building\", itself later renamed the \"Comcast Building\".\n\nThe building was designated a New York City landmark in 1985, and was added to the National Register of Historic Places on January 28, 2004.\n\nAt the time that RCA Victor commissioned this building, it was a subsidiary of General Electric. The company then moved its headquarters to Rockefeller Center, and this building was deeded over to the parent company. The building was donated to Columbia University in 1993 to gain a $40 million tax deduction. The university formed a joint venture with Mendik Company and Quantum Realty Partners and refurbished the building in 1994. Mendik bought out Columbia in 2001. Tower 570 Company, LP, an affiliate of the Feil Organization, is the buildings current owner.\n\nThe building's 50-floor stylized Gothic octagonal brick tower, with elaborate Art Deco decorations of lightning bolts showing the power of electricity, grows out of the round-cornered base with elaborate masonry and architectural figural sculpture, to form \"one of the most expressive skyscrapers of its era.\" The building was designed to blend with the low Byzantine dome of St. Bartholomew's Church on Park Avenue and shares the same brick color, with terra cotta decorations chosen to coordinate. The crown of the building is an example of Gothic tracery, which is intended to represent electricity and radio waves, and is lit from within at night. On the corner above the building's main entrance is a clock with the cursive GE logo and a pair of disembodied silver arms holding bolts of electricity.\n\nThe \"AIA Guide to New York City\" says that the building's \"Art Deco details at both street and sky are both sumptuous and exuberant.\" A \"major example\" of Art Deco architecture, the style is \"both symbolic and expressive of the building's function,\" according to the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission.\n\nAfter the building was donated to Columbia University, it was extensively renovated by Ernest de Castro of the WCA Design Group.\n\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "34997922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34997922", "title": "Gábor Kovács (financier)", "text": "Gábor Kovács (financier)\n\nGábor Kovács (born 2 January 1957 in Orosháza) is a Hungarian financier, banker, art collector, philanthropist and founder of KOGART.\n\nHaving studied at the Moscow State Institution for International Relations (MGIMO) between 1975 and 1980, he started his career at the Hungarian National Bank. He was the first managing director of Citibank Budapest from 1985, before becoming the vice-president of Citibank London. Back in Hungary by 1991, he founded Bankár Holding Plc., which he now heads as president and CEO. It was at this time that he began to collect works by, as well as to support, Hungarian artists. His collection spans the history of Hungarian painting from the early 18th to the mid-20th century.\n\nOn 8 November 2003, he established the Gábor Kovács Art Foundation with a HUF 3 bn capital stock, and opened KOGART House on 20 April 2004.\n\nHe has been a member of the Trilateral Commission since 2006.\n\nFollowing its full-scale renovation, he reopened, with a new function, the Pauline-Carmelite Monastery of Sopronbánfalva in 2010, which was managed and owned by him till 2015 \n\nAbove all, he is interested in finding answers for the new social and economic challenges of the 21st century.\n\n\n2005: Summa Artium Award, “For Contemporary Art” category, for his extensive work as an organizer and supporter of art.\n2005: Knight’s Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4745651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4745651", "title": "Harry Atmore", "text": "Harry Atmore\n\nHarry Atmore (14 December 1870 – 20 August 1946) was a New Zealand Independent Member of Parliament for Nelson in the South Island.\n\nHarry Atmore held the Nelson seat as an Independent for a total of thirty years from 1911 to 1914 and then from 1919 to his death in 1946. He was Minister of Education and Minister in charge of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) in Sir Joseph Ward's United Government of 1928 to 1931, and the acting Prime Minister of New Zealand for approximately five months between 25 August 1930 and 21 January 1931.\n\nBorn in Nelson, in 1870, Atmore attended the Nelson Public School and represented the province in rugby. He later moved to Wellington and spent eight years there as an apprentice signwriter and decorator. After his apprenticeship, Atmore returned to Nelson and established his own signwriting and decorating business.\n\nAtmore was prominent in local affairs. He was a member of the Nelson Licensing Committee, Education Board and Hospital Board. In 1905, he was elected to the Nelson City Council. Later, he served on the Nelson College Council of Governors and Cawthron Institute Trust Board.\n\nAtmore unsuccessfully contested the Nelson seat in 1902, 1905 and 1908 against the Liberal John Graham. In 1911 he became Nelson's Member of Parliament. Atmore gave his support in Joseph Ward's Liberal government by voting for it on a no-confidence motion, which was saved by just one vote. Whilst remaining an independent, he normally supported the Liberals from then on. Regardless, Atmore's political independence was always discernible. He believed that politicians should be, first and foremost, representatives of the people. That when elected they should put principle before party.\n\nAtmore lost his seat in the 1914 election, but returned to parliament in 1919 after unsuccessfully contesting the Wellington Central which was won by Peter Fraser, the Labour Party candidate.\n\nInitially, Atmore was opposed to the rising Labour Party and was doubtful of its socialist agenda. He was also an admirer of Benito Mussolini due to his opposition to socialist radicals in Italy. As a result, Labour put considerable effort in to defeat him in 1925. Gradually Atmore's animosity towards Labour lessened and Labour did not stand a candidate against him after that.\n\nFollowing the 1928 election he supported Ward's new United Party form a majority and was rewarded with a position in cabinet, as Minister of Education. As a largely self-educated man, he had passionate concern for education and took to his new responsibilities with vigor. Atmore's first goal as education minister was to ensure every child in New Zealand could have the opportunity to gain a proper education to realise their own potential. He formed a committee to examine the existing public education system. The outcome was the \"Atmore Report\" which recommended several radical reforms including raising the age to leave school to 15, establishing intermediate schools, abolishing scholarship entry to secondary school, and widening the secondary school curriculum to also cover non University approved subjects.\n\nAtmore resigned as education minister in 1931 when cuts were proposed for his portfolio due to the worsening depression and formation of the coalition government which he was opposed to. However, many of his ideas were later implemented under the First Labour Government where Peter Fraser (who was a member of Atmore's Committee) was minister of education. Fraser's Education Amendment Act 1938 was to endorse and implement most of Atmore's recommendations.\n\nAtmore read and thought widely. He was one New Zealander who was looking for solutions to problems within the altered economic, social and political context of inter-war New Zealand. He believed it was important to be informed on the issues of the day including monetary reform, international rearmament and the pivotal role of the USSR in any crisis. Curiously, he was a social credit monetary reform sponsor and campaigned for it vigorously, blaming many of New Zealand's debt problems in the early 1930s on obligations to pay interest on its debts in London.\n\nOn 8 August 1946 Atmore announced his intention not to stand again at the next election. However, only two weeks later, on 20 August, he was found dead at his home. He was buried at Wakapuaka Cemetery.\n\nAtmore was a well known man in Nelson, refusing to drive a car, instead preferring to ride a bicycle everywhere locally which made him a visible addition to the community. He personally answered all messages and requests in his own handwriting as an indication of his dedication to his work.\n\nAtmore married Dorothy Annie Corrigan on 24 June 1936, at the age of 65, at Hawera. There were no children from the marriage. Dorothy was both wealthy and well-educated. The two built a new home named Te Maunga and made it a local centre of hospitality. Throughout World War II the two were both actively involved in patriotic work, which was to earn Dorothy an MBE. Dorothy lived a further thirty years as a widow, dying in 1976.\n\nAtmore's grip on the Nelson seat was due primarily to his commitment and availability to his constituents. He organised a call to repair a country school, the completion of the Nelson railway, an exemption for an only son of an elderly farming couple from military service and helped issue jobs in the public service to the unemployed. For an entire generation Atmore worked for all Nelson residents with such a commitment that his constituents regarded him to be a personal friend.\n\nIn 1935, he was awarded the King George V Silver Jubilee Medal.\n\nRobert Chapman comments on Harry Atmore: \n\nHistorians have regarded Atmore as the last example of an earlier, simpler political age, before the rise of the party system. He embodied the aspirations of small town residents and their desires for a fairer and more egalitarian society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44588424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44588424", "title": "Iman Mutlaq", "text": "Iman Mutlaq\n\nIman Mutlaq is a Jordanian entrepreneur, financier and social activist. She is the founder of the Sigma Investments and INGOT Coin.\n\nMutlaq was born in Saudi Arabia. Following her father's death when she was six years old, she was raised by her mother. Though her family kept close company with Saudi royals, Mutlaq struggled to become involved in the typical male-centric Arabian public life. She started to sell arts and crafts at school when she was 14 years old to support her education.\nMutlaq raised her two sons as a single mother, after her divorce at the age of twenty four.\n\nMutlaq received an MBA in Finance from the New York Institute of Technology.\n\nMutlaq established her export-import business at the age of eighteen and then entered in the financial industry at the age of 27 covering the regions of Middle East and North Africa. She is currently managing Jordan based Sigma Investments.\n\nShe directs INGOT Consultation Bahrain which is a financial services provider since 2015 focuing MENA region; and enables trading on global currencies and precious metals, and also facilitates clients on reaching foreign exchange markets.\n\nShe is involved in angel investment encouraging projects which enhance women's creativity and ideas. She is also targeting applications for mobile devices through her startup, \"Dreamtech\" since 2015.\n\nShe is the founder of INGOT Coin, a Jordan headquartered and Estonia registered, decentralized cryptocurrency (since 2018), which has an integrated wallet with a digital bank\n, brokerage service, crypto certifier, community and ICO accelerator.\n\nParticipant in an expedition to Mount Kilimanjaro in 2014 in an effort to support the cancer research initiatives of the King Hussein Cancer Center; the expedition raised $1.3 million.\n\nFirst instructor of the Art of Living Foundation, an initiative of Sri Sri Ravi Shankar in Jordan. \n\nPresident of the Geneva headquartered International Association for Human Values(IAHV) in Jordan.\n\nInitiator of six programs in Iraq among 400 women for advancing their careers.\n\nParticipant at the inaugural US Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship invited by The Obama Administration in 2010; she met Hillary Clinton and Richard Holbrooke there and discussed issues affecting women in Afghanistan and across the Middle East.\n\nSigma Investments and Ingot are members of the three member consortium which signed cooperation protocol with Egyptian government to establish a US$35–50m worth electronic Egyptian Commodities Exchange in Egypt as the first ever country in the MENA region; it will facilitate the well being of the small farmers and supply of products at reasonable prices abolishing the monopoly of goods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50137861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50137861", "title": "International expansion of Netflix", "text": "International expansion of Netflix\n\nNetflix is a video on demand service which has expanded its business internationally from 2010 onwards.\n\nThe company began offering streaming service to the international market on September 22, 2010 to Canada. At the time, Canadians could subscribe to Netflix for $7.99 a month, a rate that CEO Hastings called, \"the lowest, most aggressive price we've ever had anywhere in the world.\" However, despite the proclaimed low price, content selection in Canada was extremely limited. In 2012, data conducted by Josh Loewen for Canadian Business Online found that in the United States there were 10,625 unique titles in Netflix's library, whereas in Canada there were only 2,647. This could be blamed on differences in distribution deals in the United States and Canada. It is important to point out that from its beginning, Canadian Netflix has offered content not available in the United States. For example, a short-lived Fox sitcom, \"Running Wilde\" starring Keri Russell and Will Arnett, began streaming on Canadian Netflix the same day it began airing in the United States on network television. The show streamed on Canadian Netflix because there was no Canadian broadcast partner, but was not available on US Netflix – becoming deemed a \"Canada-only exclusive\". Still, regardless of a limited streaming selection, it took the company less than a year to reach one million subscribers, approximately three percent of Canada's population. Further, as of February 2014, there were approximately 5.8 million Canadians using Netflix, or 29% of Canada's English-speaking population. This number represents an increase in Canadian users by approximately 40% since 2012.\n\nOn July 5, 2011, Netflix announced its plans to launch streaming service in Latin America, its largest expansion to date. At the time, Netflix had 23 million subscribers in the US and Canada. Entering the Latin American market meant Netflix had access to approximately 600 million people, or twice the number of people living in the United States. Although high speed internet in Latin America is not as accessible as it in the United States and Canada, upon the announcement of its expansion to Latin America, Netflix stock immediately surged 8%, bringing the company to a record share price of $291.\n\nBeginning in September 2011, the company began its expansion to 43 countries and territories in Central and South America, as well as the Caribbean, offering content in English, Spanish, and Portuguese. Brazil became the first country in Latin America to launch the service on September 5. There the service was offered at $BR14.99 or approximately $9.10 per month, making it more expensive than in the United States and Canada. Rounding out the first five countries to launch streaming service in Latin America were Argentina, which followed on the 7th, Chile on the 8th, Colombia on the 9th, and Mexico on the 12th. Service spread to the other 38 countries in the following weeks. Among the content distributed to Latin America was programming from CBS, Miramax, and Showtime.\n\nThe launch in Latin America was not as successful as the company had hoped. While in Latin America, Netflix had no streaming competitors as it did in Canada, the digital divide (a lack of high broadband internet penetration) hindered rapid growth. In Brazil, for example, only 20% of the population had an internet speed greater than ; a second are needed to stream Netflix's content. Furthermore, the lack of competitors in some ways slowed growth as well. Whereas in Canada new subscribers had been exposed to streaming content by other companies, the concept was newer to a wide Latin American audience, making some skeptical of the prospect. A banking system unused to recurrent monthly transactions exacerbated the problem. Still, while Latin American expansion happened more slowly than expected, Netflix didn't lose money for the expansion and their Canadian expansion happened at a faster rate than expected, making their first two forays into the international market fairly successful. Additionally, despite the hindrances to growth in Latin America, Netflix continued in pursuit of content expansion, signing a deal with Fox in May 2012 (for a July 15 start) to make its popular content (e.g., \"How I Met Your Mother\", \"Glee, Bones, The X-Files, Wall Street\") available in the region.\n\nThe initial launches in Canada and in Latin America happened (albeit barely) before Netflix's 2011 controversy in the United States. In September of that year, the company decided to switch to two separate plans (one for streaming and one for DVD), hiked its prices accordingly, and attempted a move to two websites (one for streaming and one for DVD rentals). The change to its business model was accompanied by a loss of approximately one million American users and a plunging stock price. Prior to announcing the change to service stock was valued at just around $300, after the price it plunged to less than $53 a share. Prior to this debacle, Netflix had been having its most successful quarter, mainly due to the decision to expand to Latin America. The company quickly lost all the money it made in the quarter it announced growth to Latin America, was forced to apologize, and rethink its changing model.\n\nBringing people back to Netflix after the 2011 snafu came in two forms. First, it began work on producing its own original content – announcing its adaptation of House of Cards in 2011 for a 2013 air date and its revival of Arrested Development in 2012 for a 2013 air date. Second, it continued international expansion – the originals were able to travel alongside its international expansion since Netflix, for the most part, retained complete control of their shows' distribution rights.\n\nNetflix started its expansion to Europe in 2012, launching in the United Kingdom and Ireland on January 4. By October 18 it had expanded to Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden.\n\nAccording to Christof Baron, CEO of the international marketing group Mindshare, Netflix developed a strategy for its international expansion, \"They start with a limited offer which doesn't cost them very much money and minimizes the risk. Then they collect very detailed data about what people like, and structure programming and investment around consumer behavior.\" This accounts for cultural taste differences and allows distribution deals to develop accordingly. By September 2013, Netflix had added token minimal content from Channel 4, ITV and the BBC, many of which are early series, with subsequents never made available on Netflix.\n\nNetflix UK and Ireland reached its millionth subscriber faster than Netflix Canada, nabbing its millionth member by July 2012. In the UK, BARB (Broadcasters Audience Research Board) reported Netflix as being extremely successful in the UK market. More than one in ten households in the country subscribed to the service by 2014. More than twice as many people subscribed to Netflix than to Amazon Prime. As of the fall of 2014, Netflix had three million UK subscribers which was more twice as many as it had in 2013. Netflix is estimated to have over 300,000 subscribers in Ireland as of 2016.\n\nFollowing the United Kingdom and Scandinavia, the next country in Europe to receive Netflix service was The Netherlands, on September 11, 2013. The Netherlands was the only country that Netflix expanded to in 2013, though, as the company decided to slow expansion to control subscription costs. The company spent $3 billion on subscription content that year. Kelly Merryman, the company's Vice President of Content Acquisition, revealed that shows that performed well on BitTorrent networks and other pirate sites were more likely to be offered as part of the expansion. Netflix's CEO further explained that illegal downloading helps to create demand, as users may switch to legal services for an improved user experience.\n\nIn the final quarter of 2013, Netflix gained more new subscribers from its pool of countries than it did from the United States for the first time since it began its European expansion, making international expansion increasingly important. As media analyst Anthony Wible has been quoted as saying, \"There are only so many people in the United States. The rest of the world is far bigger and the addition of domestic subscribers will start to slow down at some point.\" At the end of 2013, the company had reached approximately 32 million users in the United States and had additionally had approximately 10 million users internationally.\n\nBy September 19, 2014, the service was also available in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Switzerland and India.While reception throughout the rest of Europe and India was relatively warm, it was fairly hostile in France because of fears that the launch of Netflix would begin to ruin the country's \"cultural exception\" – its focus on culturally specific media. This led to Netflix's decision to create a series called \"Marseille\", essentially a remake of its hit series \"House of Cards\" within a French context and one of the company's first non-English language shows.\n\nPrior to its international expansion in 2010, Netflix's subscriber base grew on average by 2.4 million people a year. Following its arrival in Canada, Latin America, and eventually Europe, its subscriber base has grown on average by 7 million people a year, making international expansion key to Netflix's continued growth in the global marketplace. Notably, the company has over 20 original shows planned for release in 2015 and 2016. In that bunch are Netflix's first non-English language series.\n\nIn 2013, \"Forbes\" magazine estimated that international streaming accounted for 15% of the company's value. Netflix has subscribed approximately 30% of households in the United States. If able to replicate that in the United Kingdom and Scandinavia alone the company would add 12 million users.\n\nExpansion to Australia and New Zealand occurred on 24 March 2015. On February 4, 2015, expansion to Japan was announced to begin during the fall of 2015.\n\nIn May 2015, Netflix revealed it was in talks with Jack Ma's Wasu Media Holding and other partners to enter China's online video market.\n\nOn June 6, 2015, Reed Hastings announced, in an interview with the Portuguese newspaper \"Expresso\", that Netflix would enter the Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish markets in October, and that it would install its Southern Europe support center (which will cover the previous three markets plus France) in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nOn September 9, 2015, Netflix announced that it would be continuing its expansion into Asia by launching in Pakistan, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan in early 2016, and the Philippines and Southeast Asia in the near future.\n\nOn January 6, 2016 at Consumer Electronics Show, Netflix announced a major international expansion into 130 new territories; with this expansion, the company promoted that its service would now be available nearly \"worldwide\", with the only notable exclusions including Mainland China, and regions subject to U.S. sanctions, such as Crimea, Syria, and North Korea. The company also announced a partnership with LG to market pre-paid services in Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.\n\nDuring the CES 2016 announcement, Hastings stated that any potential expansion into China could take \"many years\", owing to the tightly regulated state of the internet and media industries in the country. While the company admitted that some of its original productions (such as \"\") were meant to appeal to a potential Chinese audience, Hastings stated that the company was in the process of building relationships with local partners that it could form a joint venture with. Rights to \"House of Cards\" had previously been sold to Sohu, where it was a modest success, but was pulled by regulators.\n\nOn April 25, 2017, Netflix announced that it had reached a licensing deal with the Baidu-owned streaming service iQiyi, although specifics of the deal were not announced, some Netflix original productions will be available on iQivi day-and-date with their premiere elsewhere.\n\nNetflix has encountered political controversy for some of its international productions, including \"The Mechanism\", \"Fauda\" and \"Amo\".\n"}
{"id": "8442262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8442262", "title": "Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association", "text": "Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association\n\nJapan Automobile Manufacturers Association, or JAMA, is a trade association with its headquarters in Tokyo, Japan. It was founded in April 1967 and serves as a platform for the automakers of Japan to share technological developments and management practices. There are currently 14 member companies, manufacturing not only cars, but trucks and motorcycles as well. The organization also deals with the manufacturing and distribution of vehicle parts around the world. Together, the companies of JAMA hold a vast share of the markets in the United States, Europe, and many developing countries. JAMA also has offices located in Beijing, Singapore, Washington, D.C. (US Office), Toronto (Canadian Office) and Brussels, Belgium (Europe Office).\n\n\nThe \"Big Three\" of Japan (Toyota, Nissan, and Honda), each have luxury divisions: Honda's \"Acura\" (created in 1986), Nissan's \"Infiniti\", and Toyota's \"Lexus\" (both created in 1989). Other than limited sales of the Infiniti Q45 these brands were only available outside Japan until 2005, when Lexus was introduced to the Japanese domestic market (\"JDM\"). Acura and Infiniti are also planned to be introduced into the Japanese domestic market by 2008. Toyota also began marketing some of its small domestic market cars in the United States under the \"Scion\" marque in 2003.\n\nIn Japan, there are also numerous small car manufacturers, coachbuilders, and tuning companies. Companies such as Mitsuoka, Spoon Sports, and HKS build production vehicles, sports cars, or one-off concepts in much smaller quantities than the major carmakers, therefore they are not included in JAMA.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "6124746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6124746", "title": "John Bredenkamp", "text": "John Bredenkamp\n\nJohn Arnold Bredenkamp (born 11 August 1940) is a Zimbabwean businessman and former rugby player. He is the founder of the Casalee Group.\n\nBorn in Kimberley, South Africa, Bredenkamp moved with his family to Southern Rhodesia while he was still a child. He was orphaned in his mid-teens on his birthday when while he was riding his bike, on return he found his father had shot his mother and sister and then shot himself. His sister survived the shooting. He was educated in Southern Rhodesia at Prince Edward School, Salisbury. Of Dutch ancestry, Bredenkamp registered as a Rhodesian citizen in 1958. He is reported to have lost Zimbabwean citizenship \"by default\" in 1984, but this was restored to him shortly thereafter.\n\nBredenkamp is reported to hold Zimbabwean, South African and Dutch passports. The matter of his nationality was a matter of dispute with some Zimbabwean officials towards the end of 2006. \n\nAs a Rugby Union international, he captained Rhodesia from 1965 to 1968.\n\nAfter his graduation, Bredenkamp joined Gallaher Limited, an international tobacco company in Zimbabwe (then Rhodesia), as a leaf buyer. In 1968 he was transferred to Niemeyer in the Netherlands, where he rose to the position of leaf director. \n\nAfter leaving Gallaher in 1976 Bredenkamp founded the Casalee Group of companies registered in Antwerp, Belgium. It is believed that the Casalee operation was involved in the sale of Rhodesian tobacco on world markets, through evasion of UN sanctions. Casalee was primarily a leaf tobacco merchanting company but was also engaged in general trading and an active initiator of counter trade and barter deals. The Casalee Group grew over 16 years to become the fifth largest tobacco merchant in the world and the biggest non-US leaf tobacco company. The Group employed 2,500 people and had offices in all the major tobacco growing countries in the world including the USA (Winston-Salem), Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Greece, India, Indonesia, Italy, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Thailand, Turkey and Yugoslavia. The company owned tobacco-processing factories in the Netherlands, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Brazil.\n\nThe Casalee Group of companies was sold in 1993 to Universal Leaf Tobacco, the largest leaf tobacco company in the world. Since then, Bredenkamp has expanded his business interests into many other different areas, mainly through the Zimbabwe registered Breco company.\n\nBredenkamp's career took off in earnest during the late 1970s when he became deeply involved in the commercial affairs of the embargoed UDI regime in Rhodesia. It has been claimed that he effectively ran the finances of the Rhodesian armed forces during the later stages of the Bush War. In this capacity, he brokered export sales of Rhodesian products (mainly tobacco) and used the proceeds to fund the purchase of munitions and military equipment. His \"sanctions busting\" deals (often involving complex barter transactions) sustained the UDI regime for far longer than would otherwise have been possible. These deals were entirely legal under Rhodesian law.\n\nAfter independence in 1980, Bredenkamp left Zimbabwe and moved his base of operations to Belgium. However, he remained involved in commodity trading and defence procurement. He made himself useful in certain quarters. In 1984 he made his peace with the rulers of the new Zimbabwe and was able to return home. Zimbabwe provided a hospitable base for Bredenkamp's dealings with customers in Africa and the Middle East. These dealings made Bredenkamp and his associates very wealthy men. They also helped sustain the Zimbabwean economy in a time of some turbulence.\n\nBredenkamp gained considerable clout in the political and economic affairs of Zimbabwe. It is known that he played a significant role in the events surrounding Zimbabwe's intervention in the DRC between 1998 and 2003. This intervention involved using the Zimbabwean army and air force to support the Kabila government in its war with rebels backed by Uganda and Rwanda. There appears to have been some linkage between the intervention and generous mining concessions granted by the DRC to figures in the Zimbabwe political and business elite. When Zimbabwe was subject to EU sanctions from 1999 onwards, the Mugabe regime was able to call on sanctions busting expertise from the UDI era to keep its armed forces supplied.\nBredenkamp became something of a power behind the scenes in the ruling ZANU-PF party. It is claimed that he sought to facilitate the early retirement of President Mugabe in 2004 and his replacement by Emmerson Mnangagwa, former Security Minister and Speaker of Parliament. This displeased rival factions in ZANU-PF, and government investigations were started into the affairs of Bredenkamp's Breco trading company concerning tax evasion and exchange control violations. The matters under investigation were transactions between Breco in Zimbabwe and offshore companies controlled by Bredenkamp.\n\nBredenkamp has been linked to claims to facilitate the retirement of Mugabe in 2000, by the Guardian's investigation into the leaked US embassy cables \n\nIn September 2006 Bredenkamp was tried in Zimbabwe on charges that he used a South African passport on international journeys. Zimbabwean citizenship law does not permit dual nationality. Although acquitted, he had to fight a second court case to obtain an order to return his Zimbabwe passport which the clerk of the court had retained. He was ordered to produce documentary evidence of his renunciation of South African citizenship to have his nationality restored permanently. But his passport was returned.\n\nIn April 2016, \"The Guardian\" reported that Bredenkamp has an \"estimated £700m fortune from tobacco trading, grey-market arms dealing, sports marketing and diamond mining.\"\n\nBredenkamp is the subject of US sanctions aimed at people of significant influence within the Zimbabwean government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5685724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5685724", "title": "Journal of Management Information Systems", "text": "Journal of Management Information Systems\n\nThe Journal of Management Information Systems (JMIS) is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes original research articles in the areas of information systems and information technology. It was established in 1984. The current editor-in-chief of \"JMIS\" is Vladimir Zwass. \"JMIS\" is published by Taylor & Francis.\n\n\"JMIS\" is ranked as one of the three top-tier Information Systems journals, along with \"Information Systems Research (ISR)\" and \"MIS Quarterly (MISQ),\" in the comprehensive scientometric study published in MISQ.\n\n\"JMIS\" is one of the 50 leading scholarly journals on the \"Financial Times\" FT50 list. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29055012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29055012", "title": "June Hunt", "text": "June Hunt\n\nJune Hunt (born Ruth June Hunt on December 31, 1944, in Dallas, Texas) is Founder and CSO (Chief Servant Officer) of Hope for the Heart, the nonprofit Christian ministry she founded in 1986.\n\nHunt is the author of the \"Biblical Counseling Library,\" a 100-volume collection of topical, Biblical counseling manuals, that serves as the foundation for Hope for the Heart's international broadcasts, training, publishing, teaching and biblical counseling ministry. Hunt's two radio broadcasts—\"Hope in the Night\", a live 2-hour call-in counseling program, and \"Hope for the Heart\", a half-hour teaching program—air on approximately 900 radio outlets worldwide.\n\nHunt grew up in Dallas, where she attended the Hockaday School. Hunt then graduated from Southern Methodist University in 1966 with a Bachelor of Music degree, and later earned a Master of Arts degree in Counseling from Criswell College,\n\nHunt initially worked as Junior High Division Director—and later as College & Career Director—at First Baptist Church in Dallas, Texas, overseeing the spiritual formation of 1,200 members combined. In these roles, she was often called on to answer questions from students and parents about Christian living. Later, as a conference speaker, she was likewise approached by conference-goers to answer questions about \"what the Bible has to say\" on a myriad of topics.\n\nTo respond to these questions, Hunt created curriculum for a multi-year Bible survey course. Between 1989 and 1992, she developed and taught \"Counseling Through The Bible\", a scripturally-based counseling course addressing 100 topics in categories such as marriage and family, rocky relationships, emotional entrapments, Christian apologetics, as well as addictions and abuse. Since then, the coursework has been continuously refined to form the basis for the \"Biblical Counseling Library\", composed of 100 topical training manuals, each called \"Biblical Counseling Keys\".\n\nThe \"Counseling Library\" has served as the foundation of the ministry's steady expansion, including the 2002 creation of the \"Hope Biblical Counseling Institute\" (\"BCI\"). Initiated by Dallas' Criswell College, the \"Institute\" equips spiritual leaders, counselors, and other caring people to find solutions for emotional, relational and spiritual problems.\nDuring this time, Hunt also appeared as a guest on numerous national TV and radio programs, including NBC's \"Today Show\". She also toured overseas with the USO and was a guest soloist with the Billy Graham Crusades.\n\n\"Hope for the Heart\"'s \"Biblical Counseling Library\" provides a foundation for Hunt's two daily radio programs, \"Hope for the Heart\" and \"Hope in the Night\". \"Hope for the Heart\" is a half-hour of interactive teaching. \"Hope in the Night\" is a live two-hour call-in counseling program. Together, the programs air worldwide on nearly 900 radio outlets.\n\nThe ministry is growing internationally as the \"Biblical Counseling Keys\" have been published in 27 languages and are being translated into many more. They can be found in more than 60 countries on six continents. HOPE-sponsored walk-in counseling centers operate internationally. In Canada, the ministry airs a Chinese language version of HOPE's radio briefs, \"Moment of Hope\", and sponsors a call center through which Chinese-speaking listeners receive biblical counsel.\n\nIn 2008, Hope for the Heart created a new Chair of Biblical Counseling at Criswell College. The \"Biblical Counseling Library\" is required curriculum for counseling students enrolled in this program.\n\nHunt is the founder and CEO of The Hope Center in Plano, Texas, a permanent home for nearly 50 nonprofit Christian ministries that share common space, a technology backbone, and amenities under one roof. Hope for the Heart is the Center's anchor tenant and offers walk-in counseling by appointment at the Center.\n\nHunt has been a regular guest professor at colleges and seminaries. She trains peers annually at the American Association of Christian Counselors conference and speaks at numerous other national and international conferences, as well as religious and broadcasting events each year on topics such as forgiveness, anger, fear, childhood sexual abuse, and domestic violence.\n\nIn 2011, her article \"Beyond Cancer: A Survivor’s Story”, appeared in the Vol. 18 No. 1 issue of the American Association of Christian Counseling magazine \"Christian Counseling Today\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58423370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58423370", "title": "Kyvos", "text": "Kyvos\n\nKyvos is a big data business intelligence software developed by an American privately held company named Kyvos Insights. The company, headquartered in Los Gatos, California, was founded in 2012. The software provides OLAP-based multidimensional analysis on big data and cloud platforms and was launched officially in June 2015. In December the same year, the company was listed among the 10 Coolest Big Data Startups of 2015 by CRN Magazine.\n\nThe software uses OLAP technology to enable business intelligence on big data platforms. In a report published by Forrester Research in 2016, where they evaluated several native Hadoop business intelligence (BI) platforms on 22 parameters, Kyvos was referred to as a platform that gave new life to OLAP by bringing it to Hadoop. As per the report, Kyvos enables analysis on Hadoop based on OLAP schemas, aggregations, and predefined drill-down paths. It pre-calculates aggregates at multiple levels of dimensional hierarchies to improve query response times as compared to SQL-on-Hadoop platforms. Users can analyze data through the Kyvos visualization tool or by using other BI platforms.\n\nKyvos was originally built for Hadoop and later on added support for Cloud platforms such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure. Initially, it supported only MDX queries and integrated with data visualization tools such as Excel and Tableau.  In 2017, Kyvos 4.0 added support for SQL connectivity extending integration to other BI tools such as Business Objects, Cognos, MicroStrategy, Power BI and Qlik. In late 2018, Version 5 of the software was built specifically for the cloud with elastic OLAP to provide a cloud native way to scale up and down for changing data workloads. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18828829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18828829", "title": "Lawrence Lewis (1767–1839)", "text": "Lawrence Lewis (1767–1839)\n\nLawrence Lewis (April 4, 1767 – November 20, 1839) was a nephew of George Washington who married Nelly Custis, a granddaughter of Martha Washington.\n\nHe was born in Fredericksburg, Virginia in 1767 to Fielding Lewis and Betty Washington Lewis, the sister of George Washington. He volunteered for service in 1794 to help suppress the Whiskey Rebellion and served as aide-de-camp to General Daniel Morgan, achieving the rank of major.\n\nWashington, after finishing his tenure as president, called on several of his nephews to assist him at his Mount Vernon plantation. On August 4, 1797, he wrote to Lewis inviting him to serve as his personal secretary.\n\nWhile at Mount Vernon, Lewis came to know Eleanor \"Nelly\" Parke Custis, the granddaughter of Martha Dandridge Custis Washington and Daniel Parke Custis. She and her brother, George Washington Parke Custis, had been informally adopted by George and Martha Washington after the 1781 death of their father, John Parke Custis. At Mount Vernon she acted as the social director, entertaining the many visitors to the former president.\n\nLewis and Nelly Custis were married at Mount Vernon on February 22, 1799,\nand resided there for the first several years of their marriage. Their first child, Frances Parke Lewis, was born at Mount Vernon estate on November 27, 1799.\n\nAfter George Washington's death on December 14, 1799, Lewis served as the primary executor of his will. As a wedding gift from the Washingtons, the couple had received of the Mount Vernon plantation. From 1800 to 1805, Lewis oversaw the construction of the Woodlawn Plantation, designed by the physician-architect William Thornton.\n\nLewis and his wife lived at Woodlawn until about 1830, when they settled at the new Audley estate in what is now Clarke County, Virginia. Lewis had purchased the tract of from George Washington's extensive real estate holdings. He died in 1839 in Arlington, Virginia and was buried in the vault at Mount Vernon, close to the sarcophagi of George and Martha Washington.\n\nThe Lewises had eight children, four of whom lived past infancy:\n\n"}
{"id": "10528515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10528515", "title": "Location intelligence", "text": "Location intelligence\n\nLocation intelligence (LI), or spatial intelligence, is the process of deriving meaningful insight from geospatial data relationships to solve a particular problem. It involves layering multiple data sets spatially and/or chronologically, for easy reference on a map, and its applications span industries, categories and organizations.\n\nMaps have been used to represent information throughout the ages, but what might be referenced as the first example of true location 'intelligence' was in London in 1854 when John Snow was able to debunk theories about the spread of cholera by overlaying a map of the area with the location of water pumps and was able to narrow the source to a single water pump. This layering of information over a map was able to identify relationships between different sets of geospatial data.\n\nLocation or geographical information system (GIS) tools enable spatial experts to collect, store, analyze and visualize data. Location intelligence experts can use a variety of spatial and business analytical tools to measure optimal locations for operating a business or providing a service. Location intelligence experts begin with defining the business ecosystem which has many interconnected economic influences. Such economic influences include but are not limited to culture, lifestyle, labor, healthcare, cost of living, crime, economic climate and education.\n\nThe term \"location intelligence\" is often used to describe the people, data and technology employed to geographically \"map\" information. These mapping applications can transform large amounts of data into color-coded visual representations that make it easy to see trends and generate meaningful intelligence. The creation of location intelligence is directed by domain knowledge, formal frameworks, and a focus on decision support. Location cuts across through everything i.e. devices, platforms, software and apps, and is one of the most important ingredient of understanding context in sync with social data, mobile data, user data, sensor data.\n\nLocation intelligence is also used to describe the integration of a geographical component into business intelligence processes and tools, often incorporating spatial database and spatial OLAP tools.\n\nIn 2012, Wayne Gearey from the real estate industry (JLL) offered the first applied course on location intelligence at the University of Texas at Dallas in which he defined location intelligence as the process for selecting the optimal location that will support workplace success and address a variety of business and financial objectives.\n\nPitney Bowes MapInfo Corporation describes location intelligence as follows: \"Spatial information, commonly known as \"Location\", relates to involving, or having the nature of where. Spatial is not constrained to a geographic location however most common business uses of spatial information deal with how spatial information is tied to a location on the earth. Miriam-Webster® defines Intelligence as \"The ability to learn or understand, or the ability to apply knowledge to manipulate one`s environment.\" Combining these terms alludes to how you achieve an understanding of the spatial aspect of information and apply it to achieve a significant competitive advantage.\"\n\nDefinition by ESRI is as follows: \"Location Intelligence is defined as the capacity to organize and understand complex data through the use of geographic relationships. LI organizes business and geographically referenced data to reveal the relationship of location to people, events, transactions, facilities, and assets.\"\n\nDefinition by Yankee Group within their White Paper \"Location Intelligence in Retail Banking: \"...a business management term that refers to spatial data visualization, contextualization and analytical capabilities applied to solve a business problem.\"\n\nNear defines location intelligence as the gamut of geo-spatial analytic models, algorithms, techniques and tools that harness location-indexed streaming and static data to provide requisite answers to questions around location such as the attributes of i) a place, ii) people visiting a place, and iii) products consumed at a place. Location intelligence platforms encapsulate these technologies, ingest relevant data sources, and provide it as data-as-a-service, or use it to power data-driven products.\n\nInstarea defines location intelligence as \"Using machine learning algorithms to uncover trends that would be otherwise unknown using human based rules in a large location data set.\"\n\nLocation intelligence is used by a broad range of industries to improve overall business results. Applications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "50009567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50009567", "title": "Luis de Jesús Rodríguez", "text": "Luis de Jesús Rodríguez\n\nLuis de Jesus Rodriguez Gutierrez (born July 8, 1963) is a Dominican attorney, businessman, and entrepreneur. Rodriguez has served as director of the Domino's Pizza franchise in the Dominican Republic and Haiti since 1993, as well as director of car rental company Avis Budget Group since 1997. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Universal AFI and as Managing Director of Investment Fund Casa de Santo Domingo.\n\nLuis de Jesus Gutierrez Rodriguez was born on July 8, 1963 in Constanza, a village in the La Vega Province within the central region of the Dominican Republic. He is the son of a Spanish immigrant and a Dominican woman. From a young age, Luis' father decided to leave his job as a farmer to work as a sales representative, and moved the family to the capital of Santo Domingo. After that, they moved to the city of Higüey, in the east of the island.\n\nLuis and his brother studied at the John XXIII School, which was owned by the Catholic Church. Due to economic difficulties as a result of his father's failed businesses, Rodríguez began working from the age of twelve years as a money changer at the entrance of the local post office. In 1978, Luis and his family were evicted from their home by creditors of the property, forcing them to return to Santo Domingo. At the age of 16, Rodríguez decided to apply for the position of washer at the used car department of National Car Rental. Although initially he did not get the job, the interviewer thought Rodríguez was better suited to work in the rental department, and hired him as an assistant. Rodríguez continued studying at public night school while he worked during the day as a rental agent trainee.\n\nAfter finishing high school, Rodríguez started his law degree, graduating with honors at the age 21. At this time, he was promoted as general manager of National Car Rental. Currently, Rodríguez has an MBA from CEU San Pablo University, and a master's degree in Management from the University of Barcelona.\n\nAt the age of 22, Rodríguez decided to start a car rental business with the help of a Spanish investment group. In 1986, he founded Express Rent-a-Car with an initial fleet of 8 cars. Two years later, the business had a fleet of 150 cars and became part of the Thrifty Car Rental Dominican franchise. In 1990, Rodríguez also acquired the Thrifty franchise in Puerto Rico. In 1992, he sold his stake in the company to his Spanish partners to start other businesses.\n\nIn 1992, Rodríguez bought the Domino's Pizza franchise for the Dominican Republic, opening the first store in the country a year later. At that time, Domino's was only the second American franchise in the Dominican Republic. During that first year, they were able to open three new stores. A year later, Domino's was the first American franchise to open in the country of Haiti. During his time in charge of the franchise, Rodríguez has received the Gold Franny Award, awarded by Domino’s headquarters to the best franchise operators. His son, Luis Francisco Rodriguez, is general manager of the franchise.\n\nIn 1997, Rodríguez acquired 50% of the shares of Servicolt, the operating company of the Avis Rent-a-Car franchise. In 2004, he also acquired Budget Car Rental, becoming the largest car rental company in the Dominican Republic. In 2015, Rodriguez also acquired Payless Car Rental to consolidate business operations. Under the direction of Rodríguez, Avis has made alliances with Delta Air Lines, Mini Cooper, and Audi. Currently, Avis has a fleet of 1,000 vehicles and 16 locations in the Dominican Republic.\n\nIn 2004, Rodríguez was recognized by the organization JCI Jaycees '72, along with other young people, as one of the Outstanding Young Persons of the Dominican Republic.\n\nIn 2014, Rodríguez turned his business into a private investment fund under the name Casa de Santo Domingo. The fund is focused on three portfolios: transportation, real estate, and investments. Rodríguez assumed the role of Director and Asset Manager alongside a group of investors. In addition to Casa de Santo Domingo, he also started Patio Group, an investment group focused in shopping malls, and KM100 Fleet, a vehicular fleet management company in the Dominican Republic.\n\nRodriguez is also member of the Board of Directors of AFI Universal, a management company of investment funds.\n\n"}
{"id": "66809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66809", "title": "Mikimoto Kōkichi", "text": "Mikimoto Kōkichi\n\nKokichi's company was awarded patents for pearl cultivation and in 1985 to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the patent system he was selected as one of Japan's top 10 inventors. He was inducted into the house of peers by imperial decree and posthumously awarded the \"Grand Cordon of the Order of the Sacred Treasure\". \n\nThe company was ranked as one of the worlds most luxury brands by WWD and Mikimoto Kokichi was considered one of the best Japanese financial leaders of the 20th century by Nihon Keizai Shimbun. He is also known as the founder of Mikimoto Pharmaceuticals, a company specialising in beauty products containing pearl calcium. Mikimoto Pearl Island is named after him. In addition, the reputed \"Phoenix Mikimoto Crown\" used by former Miss Universe winners as well as the crown used by Miss International is credited to his patented work. \n\nOn 25 January 1858, Mikmoto was born in Toba, Shima Province (now Mie Prefecture). Mikimoto's father was an \"udon\" shop owner. Mikimoto was the eldest son. At age 11, Mikimoto's father fell ill. He left school at the age of 13 and sold vegetables to support his family. Seeing the pearl divers of Ise unloading their treasures at the shore in his childhood started his fascination with pearls. At the age of 20, Mikimoto noticed the many flaws of pearls as he judged a pearl exhibition in 1878. This began Mikimoto’s search for the development of the perfect pearl.\n\nMikimoto began his search of an alternative method to produce pearls as the chairman of the Shima Marine Products Improvement Association. At this point the demand for pearls had severely outweighed the supply, prompting the consideration of an effort to protect the oysters.\n\nIn 1888, Mikimoto obtained a loan to start his first pearl oyster farm at the Shinmei inlet on Ago Bay in Mie prefecture with his wife and partner Ume. On 11 July 1893, after many failures and near bankruptcy, he was able to create the hemispherical cultured pearls. The pearls were made by seeding the oyster with a small amount of mother of pearl. Despite this major discovery there were initially difficulties in selling his cultured pearls due to public confusion. To encourage sales, Mikimoto opened a jewelry boutique in Ginza where he was able to have workers educate the consumer on the nature of the cultured pearls. He introduced these mabes at a marine products exposition in Norway in 1897 and began an export business. However, it took him another 12 years to create completely spherical pearls that were indistinguishable from the highest quality natural ones, and commercially viable harvests were not obtained until the 1920s. In 1927, Mikimoto met with inventor, Thomas Edison, who was in awe of Mikimoto's cultured pearls as it was \"supposed to be biologically impossible\".\nMikimoto did not know that government biologist Tokichi Nishikawa and a carpenter, Tatsuhei Mise, had each spent time in Australia and learned the secret to spherical pearl production from expatriate British marine biologist William Saville-Kent — inserting a piece of oyster epithelial membrane (the lip of mantle tissue) with a nucleus of shell or metal into an oyster's body or mantle causes the tissue to form a pearl sack. The sack produces nacre, which coats the nucleus, thus creating a pearl. Mise received a 1907 patent for this grafting needle. When Nishikawa applied in the same year, he realized that Mise had already secured a patent. In a compromise, the pair agreed to cooperate, calling their discovery the \"Mise-Nishikawa method\".\n\nMikimoto had received a patent in 1896 for producing hemispherical pearls, or mabes, and a 1908 patent for culturing in mantle tissue, but he could not use the Mise-Nishikawa method without invalidating his own patents. Mikimoto then altered his patent application to cover a technique to make round pearls in mantle tissue, which was granted in 1916. However, this method was not commercially viable. Mikimoto finally made arrangements to use Nishikawa's methods after 1916, and Mikimoto's business began to expand rapidly.\n\nThe new technology enabled Japan's cultured pearl industry to quickly expand after 1916; by 1935 there were 350 pearl farms in Japan producing 10 million cultured pearls annually.\n\nIn 1899, the first Mikimoto pearl shop opened in the fashionable Ginza district of Tokyo selling natural seed pearls and half round pearls. The Mikimoto business expanded internationally, opening stores in London (1913).\n\nBy 1935, the Japanese pearl industry was facing oversupply issues and plummeting prices for Japanese cultured pearls. Mikimoto promoted Japanese pearls in Europe and the USA to counteract falling prices. He publicly burnt tons of low-quality pearls as a publicity stunt to establish a reputation that the Mikimoto company only sold high-quality cultured pearls.\n\nAfter World War II, Mikimoto opened stores in Paris, New York City, Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Shanghai and Bombay, and was thus one of the first Japanese brands to attain an international presence and recognition.\n\nMikimoto had to constantly fight allegations that his pearls were only “imitations” of real pearls, despite scientific reports to the contrary. Mikimoto took advantage of every opportunity to personally promote his pearls, and took part in the 1926 Philadelphia World Exposition in which he displayed a replica of the \"Liberty Bell\" covered with pearls.\n\nMikimoto was the official jeweler of the Miss USA (2003–2008), Miss Universe (2002–2007) and Miss Teen USA (2002–2008) pageants, under the Miss Universe Organization.\n\nIn 2010/2011, the company's estimated total sales were €300 million.\n\nMikimoto's wife was Ume, who was also his partner in creating the cultured pearl. Mikimoto and his wife have five children. Mikimoto's children are Rui (eldest daughter), Mine (second daughter), Yo (third daughter), Ai (youngest daughter), and Ryuzo (son).\nOn 21 September 1954, Mikimoto died. He was 96. Mikimoto's personal memorabilia is displayed at Mikimoto Pearl Island Memorial Hall, a museum in Toba, Japan. \n\n"}
{"id": "39841642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39841642", "title": "Model Audit Rule 205", "text": "Model Audit Rule 205\n\nThe Model Audit Rule 205, Model Audit Rule, or MAR 205 are the commonly applied terms for the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation.\n\"Model Audit Rule\" is a financial reporting regulation applicable to insurance companies, and borrows significantly from the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (see ‘key sections’ below). The \"Model Audit Rule\" is co-developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) and National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) and issued by NAIC \nwith revisions in 2006 and has taken effect in 2010.\n\nThe NAIC internal designation for the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation is MDL 205, where \"MDL\" stands for \"Model\", and the number of the model rule is \"205\". \nBecause the regulation was issued by NAIC, which is not a federal agency with direct regulatory power, its adoption is on a state-by-state basis.\n\nThe \"Model Audit Rule\" was issued to:\n\nThe \"Model Audit Rule\" requires the following to be submitted by insurance companies operating in states which have adopted the regulation:\n\nAll insurers must have an annual audit by an independent CPA. This audit must be filed by June 1 following the preceding December 31 year end. An insurer may receive an extension for both the Audit report (performed by an independent CPA) and Managements report on internal controls. Here, the term Management refers to the management of the insurer.\n\nFor example, filing for the year ending December 31, 2012 must be done by June 1, 2013.\n\nThe annual audited financial report should show the financial position, results of its operations, cash flows and changes in capital and surplus. The insurers report must be in conformity with statutory accounting practices of the Department of Insurance of the insurers’ state.\n\n§5(G) The financial reports must be comparative, that is, to show the most recent year end against the preceding year end. For example, in a financial report for the year ending December 31, 2013, for each line item, the report must show the result for December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012.\n\n§5(A – F) The financial report must include:\n\nMany items in this section are based on the underlying requirement that the audit of the insurer must be performed by an independent CPA / CPA firm.\n\nThis section of the \"Model Audit Rule\" describes the qualifications of an Independent external auditor for an insurer through the following major themes:\n\n§7(A)(2) The external auditor is liable for representations made in the audit of the insurer. This promotes auditors independence because the external auditor has “skin in the game” and can be held liable for misrepresentations made on its audit report, and other responsibilities.\n\n§7(D)(1) is similar to SOX 203 in requiring the rotation of the lead audit partner, with a five year “cool off” period, after a five year consecutive period with the audit of the insurer. In addition to this, Section 7(L)(1) addresses that a CPA firms senior manager or partner cannot be a part of the insurers leadership for one year prior to the audit.\n\n§7(G)(1) is similar to SOX 201 in the restriction of non-audit services being performed by the CPA firm conducting the audit of the insurers financials.\n\nThe principles governing non-audit services are that the CPA / CPA firm cannot:\n\nParticular non-audit services mentioned include (Section 7(G)(1)) \n\n§7(F) provides that state insurance commissioner the authority to, following a hearing on the matter, force an insurer to change the auditor of its financial statements. In addition, according to drafting notes contained within this section, the state insurance commissioner shall consider using guidance provided in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) final rule No.33-8183 \n, strengthening the commissions requirements regarding auditor independence.\n\n§7(J) provides that all audit and non-audit services to the insurer must be approved first by the insurers audit committee.\n\nThis section of the \"Model Audit Rule\" describes the resources that the external auditor must consult in planning and performing the audit of an insurers financial statements. \nThe following are the requirements noted and standards borrowed to complete the requirement. The Auditor must:\n\nThe insurer must provide to the state insurance commissioner a report on internal control weaknesses that are still outstanding as of the close of the audit. The terminology used here is unremediated material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting.\n\nTo successfully provide the unremediated internal control weaknesses report, the concept of materiality must be explained. Here, the insurer and external auditor are directed to the Statements on Auditing Standards No. 60 (SAS 60), Internal Control Related Matters Noted in the Audit regarding the term material weakness.\n\nThe Internal Controls Report must, for each material weakness:\n\nAn example of this communication, as would be sent to the state insurance commissioner, is the following:\n\nThe insurers’ leadership (officers, directors) cannot improperly influence an external auditor of the insurers’ financial statements. “When the officer, director, or person acting under his or her direction knew or should have known that the action, if successful (but regardless of whether the action is in fact successful) could result in rendering the issuers financial statements materially misleading” \n\n§15 is closely related to Rule 13b2-2(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The standard for violation used here includes fraud (acting with intent to deceive) as well as gross negligence (reckless disregard for the truth). Gross negligence is invoked under the phrase “known or should have known” \n\nThis section of the \"Model Audit Rule\" is most closely related to and departs from Sarbanes Oxley Section 404 (SOX 404) on Internal Control.\n\n\n§16(A - D) Which Insurers must file – generally, this report is required for large insurers, those with:\n\nNo need for Duplicate Internal Control Reports\n\nIf an insurer is a publicly traded and subject to SOX 404, then they are already preparing an internal controls report. Therefore, the \"Model Audit Rule\" specifically states that this type of insurer “may file its or its parent’s section 404 report and an addendum in satisfaction of this §16 requirement”.\n\nThe addendum is a statement by the insurer that “there are no material processes with respect to the preparation of the insurer’s or group of insurers’ audited statutory financial statements...[]... excluded from the section 404 report.” \n\n§16(D) Internal Control Report Contents – Managements Report on Internal Control for statutory financial statements must include: \n\n§16(E) Management (Insurer) Supporting Activities – During an Audit or financial condition examination, the insurer must make available the basis for assertions used in evaluation of internal control.\n\nThe insurer is given the freedom (discretion) regarding: \n\nThe insurer has aforementioned discretion under the \"Model Audit Rule\" to achieve internal control objectives in a cost-effective manner.\n\nReport and Addendum Example: The following is of an SEC registrant who had all Internal Controls covered in the 404 Report.\n\n"}
{"id": "7760071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7760071", "title": "Oil Patch Hotline", "text": "Oil Patch Hotline\n\nOil Patch Hotline is a semi-monthly newsletter about the oil and gas production industry in North Dakota, Montana, and Wyoming. It is published in Williston, North Dakota. The parent company is based out of Plymouth, Florida.\n\nPublication began in 1978 as the domestic oil industry flourished with rising energy prices. The cycle of high crude oil prices ended in the early 1980s and with it much of the oil exploration activity in the United States. As a result, the newsletter suspended publication in 1986.\n\nPublication of \"Oil Patch Hotline\" resumed in June 2006 as worldwide energy demand generated renewed interest in domestic oil production.\n\n"}
{"id": "55663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55663", "title": "Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act", "text": "Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act\n\nThe Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act (ch. 27, ) is a United States federal law enacted in 1883 that mandated that positions within the federal government should be awarded on the basis of merit instead of political affiliation. The act provided selection of government employees by competitive exams, rather than ties to politicians or political affiliation. It also made it illegal to fire or demote government officials for political reasons and prohibited soliciting campaign donations on Federal government property. To enforce the merit system and the judicial system, the law also created the United States Civil Service Commission. This board would be in charge of determining the rules and regulations of the act. The act also allowed for the president, by executive order, to decide which positions would be subject to the act and which would not. A result was the shift of the parties to reliance on funding from business, since they could no longer depend on patronage.\n\nIn 1877, there was growing interest in the United States concerning the effects of the spoils system on the American political system. New York City established the Civil Service Reform Association to help address the issues, which would lead to several other organizations like it appearing in other cities. The presence of these organizations was one of the first steps in trying to up end the spoils system in America.\n\nThe assassination of President James A. Garfield moved the Civil Service Reform from city organizations to a leading topic in the political realm. President Garfield was shot in July 1881 by Charles Guiteau, because Guiteau believed the president owed him a patronage position for his \"vital assistance\" in securing Garfield's election the previous year. Garfield died two months later, and Vice President Chester A. Arthur acceded to the presidency. Once in office, President Arthur pushed through legislation for civil reform.\n\nOn January 16, 1883 Congress passed the Civil Service Act, which is sometimes referred to as the Pendleton Act after Senator George H. Pendleton of Ohio, one of the primary sponsors. The Act was written by Dorman Bridgman Eaton, a staunch opponent of the patronage system who was later first chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission. However, the law would also prove to be a major political liability for Arthur. The law offended machine politicians, or politicians who belong to a small clique that controls a political party. These politicians realized that with the Pendleton Act in place they would have to find a new means of income, since they could no longer count on donations from the wealthy hoping to receive jobs.\n\nThe Act initially covered only about 10% of the U.S. government's civilian employees. However, there was a provision that allowed outgoing presidents to lock in their own appointees by converting jobs to civil service. After a series of party reversals at the presidential level (1884, 1888, 1892, 1896), the result was that most federal jobs were under civil service.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9661198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9661198", "title": "Penny Pritzker", "text": "Penny Pritzker\n\nPenny Sue Pritzker (born May 2, 1959) is an American billionaire businesswoman, entrepreneur, and civic leader. President Barack Obama nominated Pritzker as United States Secretary of Commerce. After being confirmed by a Senate vote of 97–1, she became the 38th person to hold that position.\n\nPritzker spent her early career in business. She worked her way up through the Pritzker family business, eventually being appointed as one of three successors to her uncle, Jay Pritzker. She is the founder of PSP Capital Partners and Pritzker Realty Group. She is also co-founder of Artemis Real Estate Partners. As of October 2015, \"Forbes\" estimated her net worth at $2.4 billion. In 2009, Forbes named Pritzker one of the 100 most powerful women in the world.\n\nBefore entering government service, Pritzker had been involved in many Chicago organizations, including the Chicago Board of Education, Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago, and her own foundation, the Pritzker Traubert Family Foundation. Pritzker was an early supporter of Obama's presidential candidacy, having been a friend of the Obama family since their time in Chicago.\n\nPenny Pritzker was born in Chicago in 1959, the daughter of Sue (née Sandel) and Donald N. Pritzker. She is a member of the Pritzker family of Chicago, a wealthy and influential business family. Donald Pritzker was one of the co-founders of Hyatt Hotels. He moved the family to Palo Alto where business for the Hyatt Hotels began to grow. Penny has two younger brothers, Tony ( 1961) and J.B. ( 1965).\n\nYoung Penny would accompany her father to the hotels and check the cleanliness of the ladies restrooms. In 1972, Don died suddenly of a heart attack when Penny was 13years old. Following Don's death, Sue began battling depression, requiring Penny to at times care for her mother and her younger brothers. At age 16, Penny wrote a letter to her grandfather, and head of the family business empire, A.N. Pritzker, in which she asked why he talked business with the men in the family and not with her. Finally realizing Penny's interest in business, A.N. provided her with a summer course in accounting.\n\nPenny attended Castilleja School until 1977. She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in economics from Harvard College in 1981. The following year, Penny's mother died after falling out of the passenger side of a tow truck. Penny returned to school, earning both a Juris Doctor and a Masters of Business Administration from Stanford University in 1985.\n\nAfter she earned her degrees, Pritzker joined the Pritzker organization encouraged by her cousin Nick Pritzker. In 1987, she founded Classic Residence by Hyatt, later renamed Vi, upscale housing for seniors as an alternative to nursing homes. The project struggled at first, losing $40million in the first 18months, but turned around after changes in marketing and management. In 1991, Jay Pritzker, Penny's uncle and head of the Pritzker family businesses, named Penny as the director of the Pritzkers' non-hotel landholdings. With that appointment, Penny created the Pritzker Realty Group, which developed apartment buildings, shopping centers, and the Baldwin Park neighborhood in Orlando, Florida.\n\nFrom 1991–1994, Penny Pritzker was chairperson of the Hinsdale, Illinois-based Superior Bank of Chicago, in which Jay Pritzker had purchased a 50% stake from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, who had taken over the bank when it failed. In 1993 the bank \"embarked on a business strategy of significant growth into subprime home mortgages\", according to a report by the United States Treasury Department. In 2000 it became clear the bank was faltering. In the months leading up to 2001, the Pritzkers tried to work out a recapitalization plan. In July 2001, the FDIC seized the bank after the recapitalization could not be resolved. Subsequently, the Pritzker family reached an agreement with regulators to pay $460million.\n\nAccording to the FDIC, by 2011 the uninsured depositors of Superior had each received 81% of their uninsured monies, in addition to the $100,000 each previously received of their insured amount. Industry experts have criticized the Pritzkers in regard to Superior. Consumer advocates and government investigators asserted Superior \"engaged in unsound financial activities and predatory lending practices\". Responding to the \"Wall Street Journal\", Pritzker noted she had no ownership in the bank, either direct or indirect, and that the bank's reasons for failure \"were complex, including changes in accounting practices, auditing failures, reversals in regulatory positions and general economic conditions\". She said the bank complied with \"fair lending laws\" and ethical business practices. A 2001 \"Business Week\" article described the bank's other owner, Alvin Dworman, as the more dominant partner in its operation as a result of agreements made by Jay Pritzker. Quoted in the \"New York Times\", a Pritzker family friend observed Pritzker was trapped in a deal of her uncle's making: \"Penny got sucked into this…this was really the legacy of Jay.\"\n\nIn 1995, Penny was named as one of three successors to the retiring Jay Pritzker besides his son Tom and his cousin Nick. Tom was named the official head of the businesses, Nick and Penny each named vice-chairman. Together, the three were to oversee the Pritzker family assets. Jay intended to keep the family business together, devising a system of trusts that would allow individual family members to receive money from the trusts to meet their needs; however, the family's wealth was to be primarily maintained in the trusts to grow the businesses and fund philanthropic endeavors. The Pritzker business empire contained over 200 businesses and was valued at $15billion.\n\nAfter Jay Pritzker's death in 1999, other Pritzker family members challenged Tom, Nick, and Penny's control of the businesses in multiple lawsuits. Penny's brothers joined in one of the lawsuits. In 2001 Tom, Nick, and Penny decided to sell family assets to allow eleven cousins to receive a share, dissolving the family's business ties. Disentangling the family's business interests took nearly a decade. The family sold its controlling stake in the Marmon Group to Berkshire Hathaway for $4.5billion in 2008. The Pritzker Realty Group sold Parking Spot, an airport parking management business Penny co-founded in 1998, to Green Courte Partners LLC for $360million in 2011.\n\nStarting in 2005, she served as non-executive chairman of TransUnion. In 2009, she co-founded Artemis Real Estate Partners LLC, a real estate investment management company, with Deborah Harmon. In 2011, she founded an investment office, PSP Capital Partners. Altogether, Pritzker started five companies before joining the federal government.\n\nPritzker's friendship with Barack Obama and his family dates back to the 1990s when he was a professor at the University of Chicago. Pritzker met Obama at a Chicago YMCA where her son participated in a basketball program coached by Obama's brother-in-law Craig Robinson. Obama and his family were frequent guests at Pritzker's Lake Michigan vacation home.\n\nPritzker was an early supporter of Obama's political career, helping to finance his 2004 Senate campaign. Early in the Democratic presidential primary, Pritzker's financing helped Obama's candidacy survive when Obama was trailing Hillary Clinton in the polls. Pritzker remained a major fundraiser for Obama during the 2008 Democratic primary and raised millions overall for his White House bid. She served as the national finance chair of Obama's 2008 presidential campaign. Under her direction, the campaign reached out to small donors. Pritzker also hosted more lavish fundraisers as part of her effort to raise money.\n\nFollowing Obama's victory in the 2008 presidential election, CNN reported that Pritzker was president-elect Obama's top choice for Commerce Secretary. However, Pritzker took herself out of the running. According to the \"Chicago Tribune\", she withdrew her name from consideration \"due to obligations to her family, for whom she was still overseeing billions in assets, and the financial crisis, which was putting some of those assets at risk\". As a result of her public support for President Obama, Pritzker found herself the target of labor groups for Hyatt Hotels' practices. The president of Unite Here cited her connection to Obama as a reason why the group expected her to use better labor practices as the group staged demonstrations against Pritzker.\n\nPritzker was a member of the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness. She also served on the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board. Although she was less active in the 2012 Obama campaign than she had been four years prior, she served as national co-chair of Obama for America 2012. She was also on the board of directors of the Council on Foreign Relations, a nonpartisan think tank focused on world affairs and U.S. foreign policy.\n\nPritzker was nominated as United States Secretary of Commerce by President Barack Obama on May2, 2013. To avoid conflicts of interest, Pritzker agreed to sell her interest in at least 221 companies and resign from 158 entities, including the Hyatt Board of Directors and the Chicago Board of Education. Later that month, on May23, the Senate held its confirmation hearing, which covered a variety of topics. Although Pritzker's family business dealings had been a target of Republican criticism when Obama announced her nomination, only three questions at the hearing related to her family. Pritzker was confirmed by the full Senate on June25, by a vote of 97 to 1. Pritzker was sworn in as Secretary on June26, 2013.\n\nAmong Pritzker's priorities was the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a proposed trade agreement that would have been the \"largest regional trade agreement in history\". Pritzker supported the TPP as a way to provide market access to U.S. businesses and as a way for the U.S. to set the standards for trade. Leading up the 2016 presidential election, in which both major party candidates openly opposed the TPP, Pritzker and other Obama officials continued to push for the TPP's passage in Congress. Ultimately, Congress failed to pass the TPP bill.\n\nPritzker named a Digital Economy Board of Advisors, which included tech industry CEOs and academics, to advise on policy. Pritzker also expanded the IP attache program, which helps the tech industry protect their intellectual property abroad. As secretary, Pritzker also created the Commerce Data Advisory Council to identify priorities for the Department of Commerce, a prolific publisher of data intended to allow businesses to plan and innovate. Pritzker served as the lead negotiator for the United States in the E.U.–U.S. Privacy Shield, an agreement governing how companies transfer digital data from Europe to the United States.\n\nFollowing President Obama's announcement that the United States would move towards normalizing relations with Cuba, Pritzker traveled to Cuba. Although Obama's change in policy did not end the U.S. trade embargo, since ending the embargo required an act of Congress, Pritzker met with Cuban trade ministers and other officials to discuss the changing relationship between the two countries and to lay the groundwork for more economic involvement.\n\nFollowing her tenure as Secretary, Pritzker returned to PSP and the private sector.\n\nPritzker is involved in public education. She was a member of the Chicago Board of Education and is past chair of the Chicago Public Education Fund. Pritzker was elected to a six-year term on the Harvard Board of Overseers in 2002. In 2018, she was elected a Fellow of the Harvard Corporation, which oversees Harvard College. Pritzker was Advisory Board Chair of Skills for America's Future (SAF), a policy initiative of the Aspen Institute. Pritzker is a former chair of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago.\n\nPritzker and her husband, Brian Traubert, have their own foundation called the Pritzker Traubert Family Foundation. The foundation focuses on physical activity for young people. Among their initiatives were a $5million donation to converting grass soccer fields to easier-to-maintain turf and a $1million donation to repair tennis courts around Chicago. The Pritzkers also established ChicagoRun, a program that prepares Chicago-area children to run their first 5k race.\n\nIn 2012 \"Chicago\" magazine named her one of the 100 most powerful Chicagoans. On March26, 2014, \"Elle\" honored Pritzker, with others, at the Italian Embassy in the United States during its annual \"Women in Washington Power List\".\n\nIn February 2018, Pritzker was elected to succeed Harvey V. Fineberg as chairperson of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, taking effect May 2018.\n\nIn the 1980s, Pritzker completed her first Ironman Triathlon in Hawaii. Pritzker trained for six months and ultimately finished the race in 12hours. In addition to competing in triathlons, Pritzker has also run marathons. Pritzker is married to ophthalmologist Bryan Traubert, with whom she has two children. Although her relationship with her brothers became strained following the family business restructuring, they eventually reconciled, and Penny expressed support for the idea of younger brother J.B. running for office in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20556824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20556824", "title": "Pimm Fox", "text": "Pimm Fox\n\nPimm Fox is the news anchor of \"Taking Stock\", a program of business interviews and financial news analysis broadcast daily on Bloomberg Radio. The program was previously also broadcast on Bloomberg Television. He discusses industry and market trends with guests and financial experts.\n\nFox was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1960. He attended New York City public schools and graduated high school from Collegiate School (New York). He earned his bachelor's degree at Columbia College, Columbia University. He served in the US Navy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20627012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20627012", "title": "Retail concentration", "text": "Retail concentration\n\nRetail concentration refers to the market-share generally belonging to the top 4 or 5 mass distribution firms present in a regional market, as a percentage of the total.\n\nRetail concentration is not simply a concentration ratio as is emerging in the food sector. This is due to two factors: the particular relevance retail is gaining on a global scale, and the particular shape of the food supply chain.\n\nIn recent years, Retail Concentration moved ahead with fusions and acquisitions along the entire food supply chain. We can assume with Grievink (2003) that in a few years there will be only 5 dominant actors in the globalised food chain.\nThe same researcher states that in the 90's the top-5 food manufacturers could count on twice the cash flow of the top-5 retailers. Nowadays the relation is inverted: the top 5 retailers can count on twice that of the top-5 manufacturers.\n\nThus, the food chain has become increasingly vertically integrated, with global corporations able to coordinate inputs from the seed to the field, from the stable to the table. Retail concentration by one hand is the answer that retail is giving to compete with the giants of agrofood industry. By the other hand, is the agrofood industry in itself searching to arrive directly to the consumers, through a refined relations system. In this process, private labels are increasingly attracting consumers, and are expected to grow more and more on their fidelisation strategy, beating on quality, safety and also ethical values.\n\nRecently the European Commission proposed solutions to face with overall price increase about foodstuff. Among the measures proposed, several relate to the retail power recently acquired.\n\nIn particular, the payments delay to the producers; the additional fees asked to the producers to place on the shelves branded products; price transparency; better regulation on promotional activities and openings/closing time are all issues on the agenda.\n\nFor supporters, retail concentration means more chances for consumers, lower prices, better quality. For opponents, by the contrary, the disappearing of traditional shops, of food culture, of neighborhood life in general. Furthermore, too much concentration means squeezing the price of industry and of agriculture, which can lead to outsourcing food from anywhere it can cost less, without a truly long term impact assessment.\n\nTim Lang (Food Wars, Earthscan London 2004) described the retail concentration phenomenon such as a \"food war\", in which winners and losers take place. Tim Lang talks about \"food clusters\" ([p. 84]) to better handle the idea of concentration along the entire food chain.\nThere are a lot of legal instruments which allow to get more and more concentrated.\nAcquisition being the first one, follow mergers, joint ventures, partnerships and more not formalised contracts/ agreements.\nNote that the \"hypermarketization\" is not limited to the Western World, but supermarkets rise fast also in the less developed countries and in the East and in the South of the World.\nRegarding that, there are a lot of concerns, pretending that the overwhelming power of retailing is making poorer and poorer farmers, in particular in the LDC (Less Developed Countries). The \"crowding out\" effect on local agricultures it is basically due to the global sourcing of the produces, wherever they cost less and offer more. To say it with the words of the Italian food-thinker Corrado Finardi to fairly function, the agricultural system has a different, slower timeline than the market (in agriculture counts the long term investment, while on the global market it is more important the precise moment in which supply and demand match).\n\nMarket concentration (considering the upper and lower tails)\nA more refined form, which calculates the percentage of last 4/ competitors on the first 4/5. \nEve in its static version, it measures the level of competition in the sector. \nA diachronic comparison allows for even more insights.\n\nHerfindahl Hirschman Index\nThis index is used in Europe and in the USA for antitrust regulatory purposes, in order to assess the feasibility of mergers and acquisitions.\nThe HHI is calculated as the relative frequencies squared and summed, comprehensive of all actors in the playfield. So far, it gives more importance to biggest player in proportion. \nEven if interesting, a HHI, often wrongly assess the real behaviours on the field.\nConsider, for the comparison sake, the retail concentration in Europe. Top 5 retail distributors account for the 70% of the market share. Even if apparently it gives the idea of a highly concentrated market, the HHI does not allow for that conclusion in most of the cases. \nFollowing 3 different scenarios, we explored the relative market shares of the single actors.\n1 scenario: 1= 19%, 2=15%, 3=14%, 4= 12%, 5=10% (total=70% for the top 5), remaining= 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 7%, 9%.\nIn this first case, where there is a linear distribution of market share among players, the HHI scores at 0,121 (considered a moderate concentration indicator)\n\n2 scenario: 14% *5 (top 5 players =70%, having equal market share), the remaining, each equalling 3% (3%*10). In this second case, the HHI scores an 0,098, which stands for an unconcentrated market at all. We can deliberately make some reflections on that, since the HHI seems not taking into account opportunistic behaviours in the direction of oligopoly. It is assumed that, because of the equal market power of the top 5 actors, they are going to compete (even if history shows that more probably they find some form of implicit agreement…). Standardised from 0 to 1, the value is 0,033571429 (very low…).\n\n3 scenario. First player= 20%, followers 12%, then 10%, 9%, 8%, 7%, 4% and the last 10 each 3%.\nIn this case the HHI is 0,0944 (not concentrated market, even if not highly competitive environment). Standardised from 0 to 1, the value is 0,0378 (very low…).\n\nEven in a case where there is one leading competitor which “makes the market” as in the 3rd scenario, the HHI stays relatively low.\n\n"}
{"id": "657564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=657564", "title": "Structuring", "text": "Structuring\n\nStructuring, also known as smurfing in banking jargon, is the practice of executing financial transactions such as making bank deposits in a specific pattern, calculated to avoid triggering financial institutions to file reports required by law, such as the United States' Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and Internal Revenue Code section 6050I (relating to the requirement to file Form 8300). Structuring may be done in the context of money laundering, fraud, and other financial crimes. Legal restrictions on structuring are concerned with limiting the size of domestic transactions for individuals.\n\nStructuring is the act of parceling what would otherwise be a large financial transaction into a series of smaller transactions to avoid scrutiny by regulators and law enforcement. Typically each of the smaller transactions is executed in an amount below some statutory limit that normally does not require a financial institution to file a report with a government agency. Criminal enterprises may employ several agents (\"smurfs\") to make the transaction. Structuring appears in federal indictments related to money laundering, fraud, and other financial crimes.\n\nThe term \"smurfing\" is derived from the image of the comic book characters, the Smurfs, having a large group of many small entities. Miami-based lawyer Gregory Baldwin is said to have coined the term in the 1980s.\n\nLegal restrictions on structuring are concerned with limiting the size of domestic transactions for individuals, and somewhat limiting the outbound foreign currency transfers of firms or company entities. This should not be confused with capital controls, which are regulatory limits on the money that one can take out of a nation and generally regulate how much money can leave a country at any given time. Both can have some of the same economic effects in some economies, as structuring controls effectively limit the flow of capital by magnitude and duration, and can apply equally to taking money out of a nation as well as putting money into its financial system.\n\nIn the United States, the Bank Secrecy Act requires currency transaction reports (CTRs) to be filed for transactions valued at more than $10,000; it applies to both U.S. and foreign currencies. Financial institutions suspecting deposit structuring with intent to avoid the law are required to file a suspicious activity report (SAR). In 1986, the U.S. Congress enacted section 5324 of Title 31 of the United States Code, which provides (in part):\n\nNo person shall, for the purpose of evading the reporting requirements of section 5313 (a) or 5325 or any regulation prescribed under any such section, the reporting or record keeping requirements imposed by any order issued under section 5326, or the record keeping requirements imposed by any regulation prescribed under section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or section 123 of Public Law 91–508—[...]\n\n(3) structure or assist in structuring, or attempt to structure or assist in structuring, any transaction with one or more domestic financial institutions.\n\nSection 5324 further provides that a violation of this provision may be punished by a fine or up to five years in prison, or both. The filing of Form 8300 is required under Internal Revenue Code section 6050I.\n\nSums of money resulting from deposits of less than $10,000 may be seized after a warrant is issued based on a suspicious activity report. Legal proceedings, which may cost in the vicinity of $20,000 or more, may be required for an innocent party to retrieve his or her money. Reports in October 2014 by \"The New York Times\" of arbitrary seizures resulted in modification of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) practice to focus on investigations that \"closely align\" with IRS \"mission and key priorities\". Banks are not permitted to warn or advise customers unless the customer asks, but sometimes bank tellers will informally warn customers.\n\n\nThe term \"smurfing\" is also applied to activity associated with controlled substances such as pseudoephedrine. In this context the agent will make purchases of small, legal amounts from several drug and grocery stores, with the intent to aggregate the lot for use in the illegal production of methamphetamine. Also, since the monthly pseudoephedrine purchase limits in US are too low for mass meth production, this practice often involves using multiple \"smurfs\".\n\nAs Robert Pennal of the Fresno Meth Task Force explains:\n\nThen we started seeing \"smurfing.\" Remember how the smurfs were little gatherers? We started getting calls from different retail stores that people were buying two or three packs — that's the most you can buy — and they went to one store, they bought three, they went to another store, bought three. We're seeing blister packs everywhere because they're sitting in the car, they're punching the pills out of the blister packs, they're putting them in the freezer bags and they're turning them over to chemical brokers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10654078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10654078", "title": "Swadeshi Jagaran Manch", "text": "Swadeshi Jagaran Manch\n\nThe Swadeshi Jagaran Manch is a political and cultural organisation founded in 1991. It promotes national self reliance. Its background is in the Swadeshi movement that was part of the Indian independence movement. It is an affiliate of the Hindu nationalist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh that deals with economic issues. Swaminathan Gurumurthy is a co-convener of the organisation.\n\nSince at least 2015 the SJM has been critical of foreign direct investment.\n\nThe SJM advocates the use of freshly cooked food to fight malnutrition, in preference to ready to use therapeutic foods.\n"}
{"id": "41944142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41944142", "title": "The Halal Guys", "text": "The Halal Guys\n\nThe Halal Guys is a halal fast casual restaurant franchise that began as a food cart on the south-east corner of 53rd Street and Sixth Avenue in the borough of Manhattan in New York City. The franchise also has a cart on the south-west corner of the same intersection. New locations, both food cart and storefront, are being added throughout New York (including a storefront on 14th Street and Second Avenue) and around the world.\n\nThe franchise is most recognized by its primary dish which is a platter of chicken or gyro meat with rice, though it also serves a chicken or gyro wrap sandwich.\n\nThe Halal Guys was founded in 1990 by Egyptian-descendent Mohamed Abouelenein, along with compatriots Ahmed Elsaka and Abdelbaset Elsayed, as a hot dog cart located on 53rd Street and Sixth Avenue. Abouelenein, however, believed that a hot dog was not a satisfying meal, and switched to the current menu of chicken, gyro meat, rice, and pita in 1992. As a result, New York City’s Muslim cab drivers flocked to the cart for its ability to provide a quick, relatively inexpensive halal meal. As word of the cart spread via these chatty cabbies, the now-famous platter of chicken and rice was born, and popularized within the Muslim community in the city.\n\nThe cart has caused a decline in the popularity of hot dog vendors in New York City and has influenced many imitation carts. A cart called 'New York's Best Halal Food' is also located on 53rd Street and Sixth Avenue on the southwest corner. It is unknown which cart was located at the intersection first.\n\nOn October 28, 2006, a fight that started in line ended with 23-year-old Ziad Tayeh stabbing and killing 19-year-old Tyrone Gibbons. Tayeh was later found not guilty, as the jury found that he acted in self-defense. The fight began after one accused the other of cutting in line. \"The New York Times\" once reported that the owners had hired bouncers.\n\nThe Halal Guys donated $30,000 to LaGuardia Community College in 2016 with the money intended to fund scholarships for students experiencing financial hardships.\n\nThe Halal Guys serves \"American halal\" platters and sandwiches, prepared using ingredients such as chicken, gyro meat, falafel and rice. The taste has been described as entailing a complex melting pot of flavors originating from the Mediterranean and Middle East. The Halal Guys also serve a white sauce condiment which patrons cite as a favorite and has been described as \"famous\". A \"distant cousin of tzatziki\", the Halal Guys' white sauce has been the subject of multiple recreations based on ingredients on to-go packets, but to no avail. A similar condiment is found at all or most other halal carts in New York City, but the recipe likely often varies from cart to cart. The Halal Guys also prepares a red hot sauce.\n\n\nAfter being approached numerous times, holding off franchising to await a company that would respect their origins and core values, the Halal Guys hired Fransmart, the franchise development company behind the success and explosive growth of Qdoba Mexican Grill and Five Guys, in June 2014. Within the first year of launching their franchise expansion campaign they closed deals for California; New Jersey; Connecticut; Virginia; Washington, DC; Houston and Austin, Texas ; Chicago, Illinois, as well as international deals for Canada, the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia. In total this represents over 200 locations under development.\n\nDespite initial concern that the company’s name or its association with Muslim culture wouldn’t sit well with many Americans, Fransmart CEO Dan Rowe said that he has confidence in the company, and envisions that ”by the time they’re in Chattanooga, there will be so much good buzz, they’ll be excited to try it.\"\n\nIn 2005, Chicken and Rice was one of four finalists for the \"Vendy Award\" presented by a New York City street vendor advocacy group known as the Street Vendor Project. Chicken and Rice eventually lost out to Rolf Babiel from Hallo Berlin, a sausage cart on 54th and 5th.\n\nIn addition, the popularity of the cart has been further aided by high-profile customers. Chef Christopher Lee, who was one of Food & Wine Magazine's best new chefs of 2006, mentioned in an interview with the magazine that he \"can't stay away from it\" and once was there on Christmas Eve waiting two and a half hours in the cold.\n\nThe cart has since become a prominent cuisine throughout New York City and has been heard as far as Hawaii. It has caused an increase in competition among street meat carts in Midtown Manhattan. Lines commonly grow to over an hour's wait. There is also a student club at New York University dedicated to the food cart.\n\nThe Halal Guys was awarded the 2014 Multicultural Award by the American Muslim Consumer Consortium for their promotion of diversity and multiculturalism, and their inclusivity to all minorities in America.\n\n"}
{"id": "20633625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20633625", "title": "The Tyranny of the Market", "text": "The Tyranny of the Market\n\nThe Tyranny of the Market is a book written by then-Wharton School of Business professor Joel Waldfogel. According to \"Forbes\" the book \"makes the case that while markets do a good job of providing products that a majority of people demand, they can fall short of meeting the needs of consumers with less prevalent preferences.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1545085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1545085", "title": "Thierry Breton", "text": "Thierry Breton\n\nThierry Breton (born 15 January 1955 in Paris) is a French businessman, a former Professor at Harvard Business School, and a former Finance minister of France. He has been Vice Chairman and CEO of Groupe Bull, Chairman and CEO of Thomson-RCA (1997–2002), Chairman and CEO of France Télécom (2002–2005).\n\nToday an Honorary Chairman of both Thomson and France Telecom, he is, since 2008, Chairman and CEO of international information technology services company Atos.\n\nHe was from 2005 to 2007 the French Minister of Economy, Finance and Industry in the governments of Prime Ministers Jean-Pierre Raffarin and Dominique de Villepin, Jacques Chirac being the President de la Republique.\n\nBorn in the 14th arrondissement of Paris, Thierry Breton completed his middle and high school education at the \"Ecole alsacienne\" in Paris and University-preparatory school classes for the Grandes écoles at Lycée Louis-le-Grand. He received a master's degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from École Supérieure d'Électricité (Supélec, now CentraleSupélec) in 1979 and later graduated from the \"Institut des hautes études de défense nationale\" (IHEDN).\n\nThierry Breton began his career in 1979 as a professor of IT and Mathematics at the Lycée Français de New York as part of his military service through cooperation. In 1981 he created \"Forma Systems\", a systems-analysis and software-engineering company of which he became CEO until 1986. He became that year adviser to the French Ministry of Education and Research René Monory and designed open-air science and technology theme park Futuroscope. From 1990 to 1993, he was managing director of CGI Group, a global information technology company.\n\nIn 1993, the French government hired Thierry Breton to help turn around troubled national computer maker Groupe Bull. As second in command, he managed to restructure the stock-market listed company and became in 1996 Vice-President of the Board of Directors. He is widely credited with pulling Bull from the edge of bankruptcy.\n\n18 years later - in August 2014 - he became President of the Board of Directors following the company's acquisition by Atos.\n\nIn 1997, the French government named Thierry Breton chairman and CEO of Thomson Multimedia, a state-owned consumer-electronics company that was on the verge of collapse. A year before France's prime minister Alain Juppé unsuccessfully tried to sell the company to South Korea–based Daewoo for a single franc.\n\nThierry Breton made stock offerings in order to generate cash and diversified the company's businesses, figuring that consumer-electronics products were not high-end enough to consistently earn profits over the long term. Breton involved Thomson in interactive television, electronic publishing, and the Internet, as well as the higher-margin business of digital film-editing services. Thomson began manufacturing televisions with built-in software to run the electronic reference.\n\nThomson's new ventures instilled investors with renewed confidence in the company and allowed Thierry Breton to attract bigname companies such as Microsoft, Alcatel, NEC, and the DirecTV division of Hughes Electronics. By 1999 Thomson was turning a $230 million profit on sales of $6.5 billion. By the time Breton left in 2002, revenues had increased by more than 80 percent and Thomson was outperforming Sony, Matsushita, and Philips, its major consumer-electronics competitors.\n\nHe was elected \"Strategist of the Year\" by French financial newspaper La Tribune and was named Honorary President of the company in September 2002 following his departure for France Télécom.\n\nWidely acclaimed as a \"Turnaround whiz\" Thierry Breton was named by French government as head of multinational telecommunications corporation France Télécom on 2 October 2002.\n\nIn the past year, the company's share price had fallen about 70% while debts have ballooned to 60 billion euros ($54bn). A risky acquisition strategy that included mobile phone operator Orange, data carrier Equant and Internet service provider (ISP) Freeserve as well as several new, third-generation mobile phone licences had left France Telecom with the infamous title of the \"world's most indebted listed company\".\n\nAt the time Thierry Breton took over share prices were worth less than 7 euros. Two months after his arrival these share prices had risen by 170%. He launched \"Ambition FT 2005\" and generated a three-tiered plan that called for cutting costs to increase cash flow, refinancing debt, and generating $16 billion from shareholders through a capital increase, all in efforts to save $30 billion over three years\n\nThe operator was simultaneously facing an intensification of the competition in its long time market of France, as well as a demand from the ARCEP to unbundle ADSL. As a response to these challenges Thierry Breton notably ended Orange’s venture on the stock market and took back complete control over the subsidiary and its earnings.\n\nIn July 2003 he launched the plan \"Broadband internet for all\" with the objective of providing broadband to 90% of the French population. To do this he increased spending in the innovation sector by 20% and launched the charter \"Innovative Departments\" to speed up the development of broadband in rural areas. The following year the company recorded more than 7000 patents filed in France and abroad. In the same year France Télécom reintegrated with Wanadoo in order to integrate fixed telephony and service provider activities. In July 2004 Breton announced the launch of Livebox, the operator's first Triple Play offer and France Télécom would become the first organisation to implement the concept of \"integrated operator\".\n\nIn September 2004 the French government finalised the privatisation of France Télécom on which it had been working progressively since 1996. However, in accordance with the law of 31 December 2003 proposed and supported by Thierry Breton, the specific status of the employees was maintained. \nWhen he left the company for the Ministry of the Economy in February 2005 the share price was 23 euros. In less than three years the company’s debt was reduced to less than 40 billion euros. He was named as Honorary President of France Télécom.\n\nIn January 2010 the \"Harvard Business Review\" first published a list of \"The 100 Best-Performing CEOs in the World\" which was based on an academic study comparing the performances of the heads of industry of the 2,000 biggest global companies, in their relevant fields, from 1995 to 2009. Thierry Breton held the 62nd position for his term as CEO of France Télécom.\n\nAfter two years of government service (2005-2007) he became in November 2008 the active chairman and CEO of Atos S.A., formerly Atos Origin. On the announcement of his nomination the share price, which was previously valued at 18 euros, rose by 7.84%.\n\nIn 2008 Atos generated a sales revenue of 5.5 billion euros with a headcount of 50,000 employees but according to Thierry Breton was \"managed too compartmentally\" and the company’s inferior profitability margins compared to those of its competitors required a complete transformation plan.\n\nIn July 2011 he orchestrated the acquisition of the IT activities of German industry group Siemens which allowed the company to rank number one among the European IT services players and in the Top 5 worldwide, with 75 000 employees in 42 countries. The deal, valued at €850m ($1.1bn), was the biggest Franco-German transaction since an alliance between Germany’s premium carmaker Daimler and France’s Renault early this year. The operation was lauded by the financial markets and the Atos share price rose by 11.6%.\n\nWith the integration of 28,000 engineers Atos became one of the most important Franco-German industrial collaborations since Airbus, illustrated particularly by a financial partnership (Siemens took 15% of Atos’ capital), and a common investment fund of 100 million euros was created as well as a joint response to international tenders. This strategy was awarded the prize for \"Industrial cooperation\" by the Franco-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry.\n\nIn 2012 Thierry Breton adopted the Societas Europaea for Atos which gave the company two headquarters, one in France and a second in Munich, Germany. Furthermore, he participated in other European institutional projects in which the Franco-German partnership played a central role such as the European Commission’s European Cloud Partnership (2012-2014) over which he co-presided with Jim Snabe, the co-CEO of the German world leader in software SAP.\n\nIn May 2014 Thierry Breton launched a friendly takeover on French historic IT industry player Bull, turning Atos into the number one European company and one of the major global players in Big Data and Cybersecurity. This acquisition, again commended by the markets (Atos’ share price rose by 6.2% and Bull’s by 21.9% the day of the announcement) notably allowed the company to position itself in the Supercomputing segment and to become the sole only European manufacturer.\n\nSix months later he announced Atos’ acquisition of Xerox’s IT outsourcing activities as well as a strategic partnership with the American company. This operation, which was viewed favorably by the Stock Market, made Atos one of the five largest digital companies in the world. The company had doubled in size within six years with a headcount of around 100,000 employees.\n\nThierry Breton got World attention after an interview with the Wall Street Journal in 2011 when he reiterated his intention to ban internal Email, dubbed as \"the pollution of the information age\", at Atos within 18 months (known as the Zero-Email Strategy), replacing internal emails by a set of Enterprise Social Networks, Enterprise Instant Messaging, Collaborative tools etc..., both being developed inhouse and partially aggregated from other vendors.\n\nIn 2012 he was elected \"Strategist of the Year\" by French financial newspaper Les Echos for his management of Atos.\n\nIn May 2015 the company’s market capitalization rose to 7.29 billion euros, an increase of more than 5 billion euros compared with November 2008 when Thierry Breton took over office. The market share price of Atos grew by 268% in five years.\n\nHaving already been proposed twice to succeed Nicolas Sarkozy as Finance Minister, Thierry Breton was appointed on 24 February 2005, replacing Hervé Gaymard.\n\nDuring his two and a half years at the head of Bercy he centred his economic policy on the need to reform public finances, specifically in order to reduce debt. In June 2005 he declared that France \"lives beyond its means\", a sentiment echoing the words of the Prime Minister Raymond Barre in 1976. He stated to the French people that the entirety of their income tax would serve only to finance the interest payments on the national debt.\n\nA month later he set up a commission presided over by BNP Paribas CEO Michel Pébereau which was given the task of \"breaking the pattern of public debt\".\n\nHe stipulated the maintenance of public deficit below a level of 3% of GDP in 2005 and 2006 as his primary goal. At the end of 2005 France’s deficit fell to 2.9% of its GDP after three consecutive years of surpassing the figure of 3%. In 2006 the public deficit was further reduced to 2.5% and public debt was recorded to have dramatically fallen to 63.9% of GDP. For the first time since 1995 the country’s budget was in a situation of primary surplus. At the same time France’s GDP rose by 2.1% in 2006 compared with 1.7% in 2005.\n\nIn October 2005 Breton proposed a law on \"the modernization of the economy\" which was voted in the same year and looked to prioritize SMEs’ access to financial markets, encourage research and promote giving employees a stake in the company’s outcomes. On this occasion he also announced himself in favor of the status of the Societas Europaea being written into French legislation to allow businesses to operate throughout the EU on the basis of a unified set of financial rules.\n\nAt the same time he led a reform for fiscal simplification which attempted to reduce the number of tax brackets from seven to four and put in place a pre-filled internet based declaration of revenues.\n\nDuring this period he unveiled the concept of the tax shield, which he would initiate in 2006 at a level of 60% excepting health insurance and social debt reimbursement. This was taken up again by Nicolas Sarkozy in 2007 with a lowering of the level to 60% and an inclusion of health insurance and social debt reimbursement.\n\nThierry Breton wanted France to be the first country to move forward in developing its immaterial heritage. Thus in March 2007 he entrusted a report to Maurice Lévy and Jean-Pierre Jouyet on the economy of the immaterial with the goal of creating an agency for the immaterial heritage of the state which ambition would be to valorize the state’s immaterial assets (use of image; brands etc.) This one-of-a-kind agency was put in place on 23 April 2007. This immaterial heritage was recorded as 10 billion euros worth of assets in the state’s annual report in 2010.\n\nIn February 2007 the unemployment rate was at 8.4%, the lowest recorded score since June 1983.\n\nHe finished his term on 15 May 2007 at the end of Jacques Chirac’s five-year term. The handover of power to Jean-Louis Borloo, named as Minister of the Economy by the newly elected President of the French Republic Nicolas Sarkozy, took place the following day.\n\nHe served as director in many boards such as:\nAXA; La Poste; Dexia; Schneider Electric; Bouygues Telecom. He sits today on the board of directors of Carrefour where he chairs the Compensation and Benefits Committee. He also is member of Bank of America's Global Advisory Council.\n\nAfter leaving the government, he has been a Professor at Harvard Business School (2007–2008) where he taught Leadership and Corporate Accountability (LCA). He has been also the Chairman of the University of Technology of Troyes in France from 1997 to 2005.\n\nHe is the author of many books about information technology and economy, and co-author of a novel about cyberspace.\n\n\nHe is an officer of the Légion d'honneur and a commander of the Ordre National du Mérite. He is also a member of Le Siècle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3198118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3198118", "title": "Timeline of labor issues and events", "text": "Timeline of labor issues and events\n\nTimeline of organized labor history\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFounding of the Allgemeine Deutsche Arbeiter-Verbrüderung (General German Workers-Brotherhood) \n\n\n\n\n\n\nNew England Shoemakers Strike of 1860\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Battle of the Barn\nJames B. Duke and Southern Company break strike by local streetcar motormen and conductors by calling in troops. Five dead. Youngest 17 years old. Nearly two dozen wounded. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n19 September 2012 (Texas)\n\n\nAdrian Paradis, \"The Labor Reference Book\" (Philadelphia: Chilton Book Co., 1972), 133–134.\n\n"}
{"id": "4744721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4744721", "title": "Trade facilitation", "text": "Trade facilitation\n\nTrade facilitation looks at how procedures and controls governing the movement of goods across national borders can be improved to reduce associated cost burdens and maximise efficiency while safeguarding legitimate regulatory objectives. Business costs may be a direct function of collecting information and submitting declarations or an indirect consequence of border checks in the form of delays and associated time penalties, forgone business opportunities and reduced competitiveness.\n\nUnderstanding and use of the term “trade facilitation” varies in the literature and amongst practitioners. \"Trade facilitation\" is largely used by institutions which seek to improve the regulatory interface between government bodies and traders at national borders. The WTO, in an online training package, has defined trade facilitation as “the simplification and harmonisation of international trade procedures”, where trade procedures are the “activities, practices and formalities involved in collecting, presenting, communicating and processing data required for the movement of goods in international trade”.\n\nIn defining the term, many trade facilitation proponents will also make reference to trade finance and the procedures applicable for making payments (e.g. via a commercial banks). For example, UN/CEFACT defines trade facilitation as \"the simplification, standardization and harmonisation of procedures and associated information flows required to move goods from seller to buyer and to make payment\".\n\nOccasionally, the term trade facilitation is extended to address a wider agenda in economic development and trade to include: the improvement of transport infrastructure, the removal of government corruption, the modernization of customs administration, the removal of other non-tariff trade barriers, as well as export marketing and promotion.\n\nThe World Trade Report 2015 provides an overview of the various trade facilitation definitions from academia as well as various international organizations, contrasting them with the scope of the WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) concluded in December 2013. The WTO TFA has become the new baseline for trade facilitation, with many countries striving to implement measures going beyond those included in this Agreement in order to maintain a competitive advantage in global markets. Notably, most countries have focused their trade facilitation efforts on establishing electronic single windows and other paperless trade systems to further reduce trade costs.\n\nFiscal:\nCollection of customs duties, excise duties and other indirect taxes; payment mechanisms\n\nSafety and security:\nSecurity and anti smuggling controls; dangerous goods; vehicle checks; immigration and visa formalities\n\nEnvironment and health:\nPhytosanitary, veterinary and hygiene controls; health and safety measures; CITES controls; ships’ waste\n\nConsumer protection:\nProduct testing; labelling; conformity checks with marketing standards (e.g. fruit and vegetables)\n\nTrade policy:\nAdministration of quota restrictions; export refunds\n\nTrade facilitation has its intellectual roots in the fields of logistics and supply chain management. Trade facilitation looks at operational improvements at the interface between business and government and associated transaction costs. Trade facilitation has become a key feature in supply chain security and customs modernisation programmes. Within the context of economic development it has also come to prominence in the Doha Development Round. However, it is an equally prominent feature in unilateral and bilateral initiatives that seek to improve the trade environment and enhance business competitiveness. Reference to trade facilitation is sometimes also made in the context of \"better regulation\". Some organisations promoting trade facilitation will emphasize the cutting of red tape in international trade as their main objective. Propagated ideas and concepts to reforming trade and customs procedures generally resonate around the following themes: \n\n\n"}
