{"id": "17623524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17623524", "title": "1345 Avenue of the Americas", "text": "1345 Avenue of the Americas\n\n1345 Avenue of the Americas, also known as the Alliance Bernstein Building, is a 625 ft (191m) tall skyscraper in New York City, New York. Located on Sixth Avenue between 54th and 55th Streets, the 50 story building was built by Fisher Brothers and completed in 1969. Originally known as Burlington House, the building was designed by Emery Roth & Sons and is the 68th tallest in New York City. It is an unrelieved slab structure in the International Style, sometimes referred to as \"corporate\" style, faced with dark glass. Its small plaza is dominated by its sprinkling fountain like a dandelion seedhead. It replaced the original Ziegfeld Theatre.\n\nA base station atop the building was used on April 3, 1973, by Martin Cooper to make the world's first handheld cellular phone call in public. Cooper, a Motorola inventor, called rival Joel S. Engel of Bell Labs to tell him about the invention. Engel was staying across the street in the Hilton New York.\n\nIn the film \"Spider-Man 3\" (2007), 1345 Avenue of the Americas is the building Gwen Stacy fell from in the crane scene. It also served as the foyer for the fictional law firm in the film Michael Clayton (2007).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34465340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34465340", "title": "252 East 57th Street", "text": "252 East 57th Street\n\n252 East 57th Street is a mixed use modernist style residential skyscraper in New York City, United States developed by the World Wide Group and Rose Associates, Inc. Construction started in 2013, 252 East 57th Street is part of a surge of redevelopment of 57th Street into a luxury residential corridor that has been named \"Billionaires’ Row.\" The residential tower will be 712 feet tall with condominiums starting on the 36th floor. The building will also include the construction of two new schools and 78,000 square feet of retail space, in addition to a Whole Foods Market. The residential tower and additional retail portions are anticipated to open in late 2016.\n\nThe building was designed by Roger Duffy of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the architectural firm who was responsible for the neighboring Time Warner Center and Lever House, as well as One World Trade Center and Dubai’s Burj Khalifa. The building’s curved glass design is based on Alvar Aalto’s Aalto Vase of Finnish design created in 1936. The interiors are designed by AD100 designer Daniel Romauldez. It is Romauldez’s first new development commission, having previously designed private homes for celebrities Aerin Lauder, Tory Burch, Daphne Guinness, and Mick Jagger.\n\nThe building will include a private gated porte-cochère, automated parking, swimming pool, sauna, steam, and ice rooms. The 34th amenity floor will comprise a library, screening room, dining room, terrace, and fitness center with pilates, yoga, and private training studios. The building will also house two furnished guest suites.\n\n"}
{"id": "16618670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16618670", "title": "51st Street (Manhattan)", "text": "51st Street (Manhattan)\n\n51st Street is a long one-way street traveling east to west across Midtown Manhattan.\n\nThe route officially begins at Beekman Place which is on a hill overlooking FDR Drive. 51st continues for a few feet east of the intersection but the street sign refers to it as Peter Detmold Park (a reference to the dog park at the bottom of the hill) which has a pedestrian walk way over the FDR to the East River.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe route concludes at the West Side Highway (New York Route 9A). Opposite the intersection is the New York Passenger Ship Terminal and the Hudson River\n\nThe 51st Street station is located on the intersection on 51st Street and Lexington Avenue and is served by the \n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2593", "title": "Accounting", "text": "Accounting\n\nAccounting or accountancy is the measurement, processing, and communication of financial information about economic entities such as businesses and corporations. The modern field was established by the Italian mathematician Luca Pacioli in 1494. Accounting, which has been called the \"language of business\", measures the results of an organization's economic activities and conveys this information to a variety of users, including investors, creditors, management, and regulators. Practitioners of accounting are known as accountants. The terms \"accounting\" and \"financial reporting\" are often used as synonyms.\n\nAccounting can be divided into several fields including financial accounting, management accounting, external auditing, tax accounting and cost accounting. Accounting information systems are designed to support accounting functions and related activities. Financial accounting focuses on the reporting of an organization's financial information, including the preparation of financial statements, to the external users of the information, such as investors, regulators and suppliers; and management accounting focuses on the measurement, analysis and reporting of information for internal use by management. The recording of financial transactions, so that summaries of the financials may be presented in financial reports, is known as bookkeeping, of which double-entry bookkeeping is the most common system.\n\nAccounting is facilitated by such as standard-setters, accounting firms and professional bodies. Financial statements are usually audited by accounting firms, and are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP is set by various standard-setting organizations such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in the United States and the Financial Reporting Council in the United Kingdom. As of 2012, \"all major economies\" have plans to converge towards or adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).\n\nThe history of accounting is thousands of years old and can be traced to ancient civilizations. The early development of accounting dates back to ancient Mesopotamia, and is closely related to developments in writing, counting and money; there is also evidence for early forms of bookkeeping in ancient Iran, and early auditing systems by the ancient Egyptians and Babylonians. By the time of the Emperor Augustus, the Roman government had access to detailed financial information.\n\nDouble-entry bookkeeping was pioneered in the Jewish community of the early-medieval Middle East and further refined in medieval Europe. With the development of joint-stock companies, accounting split into financial accounting and management accounting. \n\nThe first work on a double-entry bookkeeping system was published in Italy, by Luca Pacioli (\"Father of Accounting\"). Accounting began to transition into an organized profession in the nineteenth century, with local professional bodies in England merging to form the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1880.\n\nBoth the words accounting and accountancy were in use in Great Britain by the mid-1800s, and are derived from the words \"accompting\" and \"accountantship\" used in the 18th century. In Middle English (used roughly between the 12th and the late 15th century) the verb \"to account\" had the form \"accounten\", which was derived from the Old French word \"aconter\", which is in turn related to the Vulgar Latin word \"computare\", meaning \"to reckon\". The base of \"computare\" is \"putare\", which \"variously meant to prune, to purify, to correct an account, hence, to count or calculate, as well as to think.\"\n\nThe word \"accountant\" is derived from the French word , which is also derived from the Italian and Latin word . The word was formerly written in English as \"accomptant\", but in process of time the word, which was always pronounced by dropping the \"p\", became gradually changed both in pronunciation and in orthography to its present form.\n\nAccounting has variously been defined as the keeping or preparation of the financial records of an entity, the analysis, verification and reporting of such records and \"the principles and procedures of accounting\"; it also refers to the job of being an accountant.\n\nAccountancy refers to the occupation or profession of an accountant, particularly in British English.\n\nAccounting has several subfields or subject areas, including financial accounting, management accounting, auditing, taxation and accounting information systems.\n\nFinancial accounting focuses on the reporting of an organization's financial information to external users of the information, such as investors, potential investors and creditors. It calculates and records business transactions and prepares financial statements for the external users in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). GAAP, in turn, arises from the wide agreement between accounting theory and practice, and change over time to meet the needs of decision-makers.\n\nFinancial accounting produces past-oriented reports—for example the financial statements prepared in 2006 reports on performance in 2005—on an annual or quarterly basis, generally about the organization as a whole.\n\nThis branch of accounting is also studied as part of the board exams for qualifying as an actuary. These two types of professionals, accountants and actuaries, have created a culture of being archrivals.\n\nManagement accounting focuses on the measurement, analysis and reporting of information that can help managers in making decisions to fulfill the goals of an organization. In management accounting, internal measures and reports are based on cost-benefit analysis, and are not required to follow the generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP). In 2014 CIMA created the Global Management Accounting Principles (GMAPs). The result of research from across 20 countries in five continents, the principles aim to guide best practice in the discipline.\n\nManagement accounting produces future-oriented reports—for example the budget for 2006 is prepared in 2005—and the time span of reports varies widely. Such reports may include both financial and non financial information, and may, for example, focus on specific products and departments.\n\nAuditing is the verification of assertions made by others regarding a payoff, and in the context of accounting it is the \"unbiased examination and evaluation of the financial statements of an organization\". Audit is a professional service that is systematic and conventional.\nAn audit of financial statements aims to express or disclaim an opinion on the financial statements. The auditor expresses an opinion on the fairness with which the financial statements presents the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of an entity, in accordance with the generally acceptable accounting principle (GAAP) and \"in all material respects\". An auditor is also required to identify circumstances in which the generally acceptable accounting principles (GAAP) has not been consistently observed.\n\nAn accounting information system is a part of an organization's information system that focuses on processing accounting data.\nMany corporations use artificial intelligence-based information systems. Banking and finance industry is using AI as fraud detection. Retail industry is using AI for customer services. AI is also used in cybersecurity industry. It involves computer hardware and software systems and using statistics and modeling.\n\nTax accounting in the United States concentrates on the preparation, analysis and presentation of tax payments and tax returns. The U.S. tax system requires the use of specialised accounting principles for tax purposes which can differ from the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for financial reporting. U.S. tax law covers four basic forms of business ownership: sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, and limited liability company. Corporate and personal income are taxed at different rates, both varying according to income levels and including varying marginal rates (taxed on each additional dollar of income) and average rates (set as a percentage of overall income).\n\nForensic accounting is a specialty practice area of accounting that describes engagements that result from actual or anticipated disputes or litigation. \"Forensic\" means \"suitable for use in a court of law,\" and it is to that standard and potential outcome that forensic accountants generally have to work.\n\nProfessional accounting bodies include the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and the other 179 members of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), including Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS), CPA Australia, Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW). Professional bodies for subfields of the accounting professions also exist, for example the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA). Many of these professional bodies offer education and training including qualification and administration for various accounting designations, such as certified public accountant and chartered accountant.\n\nDepending on its size, a company may be legally required to have their financial statements audited by a qualified auditor, and audits are usually carried out by accounting firms.\n\nAccounting firms grew in the United States and Europe in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, and through several mergers there were large international accounting firms by the mid-twentieth century. Further large mergers in the late twentieth century led to the dominance of the auditing market by the \"Big Five\" accounting firms: Arthur Andersen, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers. The demise of Arthur Andersen following the Enron scandal reduced the Big Five to the Big Four.\n\nGenerally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) are accounting standards issued by national regulatory bodies. In addition, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issues the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) implemented by 147 countries. While standards for international audit and assurance, ethics, education, and public sector accounting are all set by independent standard settings boards supported by IFAC. The International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board sets international standards for auditing, assurance, and quality control; the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) sets the internationally appropriate principles- based \"Code of Ethics for Professional Accounts\" the International Accounting Education Standards Board (IAESB) sets professional accounting education standards; International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) sets accrual-based international public sector accounting standards \n\nOrganizations in individual countries may issue accounting standards unique to the countries. For example, in the United States the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issues the Statements of Financial Accounting Standards, which form the basis of US GAAP, and in the United Kingdom the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) sets accounting standards. However, as of 2012 \"all major economies\" have plans to converge towards or adopt the IFRS.\n\nAt least a bachelor's degree in accounting or a related field is required for most accountant and auditor job positions, and some employers prefer applicants with a master's degree. A degree in accounting may also be required for, or may be used to fulfill the requirements for, membership to professional accounting bodies. For example, the education during an accounting degree can be used to fulfill the American Institute of CPA's (AICPA) 150 semester hour requirement, and associate membership with the Certified Public Accountants Association of the UK is available after gaining a degree in finance or accounting.\n\nA doctorate is required in order to pursue a career in accounting academia, for example to work as a university professor in accounting. The Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and the Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) are the most popular degrees. The PhD is the most common degree for those wishing to pursue a career in academia, while DBA programs generally focus on equipping business executives for business or public careers requiring research skills and qualifications.\n\nProfessional accounting qualifications include the Chartered Accountant designations and other qualifications including certificates and diplomas. In Scotland, chartered accountants of ICAS undergo Continuous Professional Development and abide by the ICAS code of ethics. In England and Wales, chartered accountants of the ICAEW undergo annual training, and are bound by the ICAEW's code of ethics and subject to its disciplinary procedures. In the United States, the requirements for joining the AICPA as a Certified Public Accountant are set by the Board of Accountancy of each state, and members agree to abide by the AICPA's Code of Professional Conduct and Bylaws. In India the Apex Accounting body constituted by parliament of India is \"Institute of Chartered Accountants of India\" (ICAI) was known for its rigorous training and study methodology for granting the Qualification. The ACCA is the largest global accountancy body with over 320,000 members and the organisation provides an ‘IFRS stream’ and a ‘UK stream’. Students must pass a total of 14 exams, which are arranged across three papers.\n\nAccounting research is research in the effects of economic events on the process of accounting, the effects of reported information on economic events, and the roles of accounting in organizations and society.. It encompasses a broad range of research areas including financial accounting, management accounting, auditing and taxation.\n\nAccounting research is carried out both by academic researchers and practicing accountants. Methodologies in academic accounting research include archival research, which examines \"objective data collected from repositories\"; experimental research, which examines data \"the researcher gathered by administering treatments to subjects\"; analytical research, which is \"based on the act of formally modeling theories or substantiating ideas in mathematical terms\"; interpretive research, which emphasizes the role of language, interpretation and understanding in accounting practice, \"highlighting the symbolic structures and taken-for-granted themes which pattern the world in distinct ways\"; critical research, which emphasizes the role of power and conflict in accounting practice; case studies; computer simulation; and field research.\n\nEmpirical studies document that leading accounting journals publish in total fewer research articles than comparable journals in economics and other business disciplines, and consequently, accounting scholars are relatively less successful in academic publishing than their business school peers. Due to different publication rates between accounting and other business disciplines, a recent study based on academic author rankings concludes that the competitive value of a single publication in a top-ranked journal is highest in accounting and lowest in marketing.\n\nMany accounting practices have been simplified with the help of accounting computer-based software. An Enterprise resource planning (ERP) system is commonly used for a large organisation and it provides a comprehensive, centralized, integrated source of information that companies can use to manage all major business processes, from purchasing to manufacturing to human resources.\n\nAccounting information systems have reduced the cost of accumulating, storing, and reporting managerial accounting information and have made it possible to produce a more detailed account of all data that is entered into any given system.\n\nThe year 2001 witnessed a series of financial information frauds involving Enron, auditing firm Arthur Andersen, the telecommunications company WorldCom, Qwest and Sunbeam, among other well-known corporations. These problems highlighted the need to review the effectiveness of accounting standards, auditing regulations and corporate governance principles. In some cases, management manipulated the figures shown in financial reports to indicate a better economic performance. In others, tax and regulatory incentives encouraged over-leveraging of companies and decisions to bear extraordinary and unjustified risk.\n\nThe Enron scandal deeply influenced the development of new regulations to improve the reliability of financial reporting, and increased public awareness about the importance of having accounting standards that show the financial reality of companies and the objectivity and independence of auditing firms.\n\nIn addition to being the largest bankruptcy reorganization in American history, the Enron scandal undoubtedly is the biggest audit failure. It involved a financial scandal of Enron Corporation and their auditors Arthur Andersen, which was revealed in late 2001. The scandal caused the dissolution of Arthur Andersen, which at the time was one of the five largest accounting firms in the world. After a series of revelations involving irregular accounting procedures conducted throughout the 1990s, Enron filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in December 2001.\n\nOne consequence of these events was the passage of Sarbanes–Oxley Act in the United States 2002, as a result of the first admissions of fraudulent behavior made by Enron. The act significantly raises criminal penalties for securities fraud, for destroying, altering or fabricating records in federal investigations or any scheme or attempt to defraud shareholders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942", "title": "Airline", "text": "Airline\n\nAn airline is a company that provides air transport services for traveling passengers and freight. Airlines utilize aircraft to supply these services and may form partnerships or alliances with other airlines for codeshare agreements. Generally, airline companies are recognized with an air operating certificate or license issued by a governmental aviation body.\n\nAirlines vary in size, from small domestic airlines to full-service international airlines with double decker airplanes. Airline services can be categorized as being intercontinental, domestic, regional, or international, and may be operated as scheduled services or charters. The largest airline currently is American Airlines Group.\n\nDELAG, \"Deutsche Luftschiffahrts-Aktiengesellschaft I\" was the world's first airline. It was founded on November 16, 1909, with government assistance, and operated airships manufactured by The Zeppelin Corporation. Its headquarters were in Frankfurt. The first fixed wing scheduled air service was started on January 1, 1914, from St. Petersburg, Florida, to Tampa, Florida. The four oldest non-dirigible airlines that still exist are Netherlands' KLM (1919), Colombia's Avianca (1919), Australia's Qantas (1921), and the Czech Republic's Czech Airlines (1923).\n\nThe earliest fixed wing airline in Europe was Aircraft Transport and Travel, formed by George Holt Thomas in 1916; via a series of takeovers and mergers, this company is an ancestor of modern-day British Airways. Using a fleet of former military Airco DH.4A biplanes that had been modified to carry two passengers in the fuselage, it operated relief flights between Folkestone and Ghent. On 15 July 1919, the company flew a proving flight across the English Channel, despite a lack of support from the British government. Flown by Lt. H Shaw in an Airco DH.9 between RAF Hendon and Paris – Le Bourget Airport, the flight took 2 hours and 30 minutes at £21 per passenger.\n\nOn 25 August 1919, the company used DH.16s to pioneer a regular service from Hounslow Heath Aerodrome to Le Bourget, the first regular international service in the world. The airline soon gained a reputation for reliability, despite problems with bad weather, and began to attract European competition. In November 1919, it won the first British civil airmail contract. Six Royal Air Force Airco DH.9A aircraft were lent to the company, to operate the airmail service between Hawkinge and Cologne. In 1920, they were returned to the Royal Air Force.\n\nOther British competitors were quick to follow – Handley Page Transport was established in 1919 and used the company's converted wartime Type O/400 bombers with a capacity for 12 passengers, to run a London-Paris passenger service.\n\nThe first French airline was Société des lignes Latécoère, later known as Aéropostale, which started its first service in late 1918 to Spain. The Société Générale des Transports Aériens was created in late 1919, by the Farman brothers and the Farman F.60 Goliath plane flew scheduled services from Toussus-le-Noble to Kenley, near Croydon, England. Another early French airline was the Compagnie des Messageries Aériennes, established in 1919 by Louis-Charles Breguet, offering a mail and freight service between Le Bourget Airport, Paris and Lesquin Airport, Lille.\nThe first German airline to use heavier than air aircraft was Deutsche Luft-Reederei established in 1917 which started operating in February 1919. In its first year, the D.L.R. operated regularly scheduled flights on routes with a combined length of nearly 1000 miles. By 1921 the D.L.R. network was more than 3000 km (1865 miles) long, and included destinations in the Netherlands, Scandinavia and the Baltic Republics. Another important German airline was Junkers Luftverkehr, which began operations in 1921. It was a division of the aircraft manufacturer Junkers, which became a separate company in 1924. It operated joint-venture airlines in Austria, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Latvia, Norway, Poland, Sweden and Switzerland.\nThe Dutch airline KLM made its first flight in 1920, and is the oldest continuously operating airline in the world. Established by aviator Albert Plesman, it was immediately awarded a \"Royal\" predicate from Queen Wilhelmina. Its first flight was from Croydon Airport, London to Amsterdam, using a leased Aircraft Transport and Travel DH-16, and carrying two British journalists and a number of newspapers. In 1921, KLM started scheduled services.\n\nIn Finland, the charter establishing Aero O/Y (now Finnair) was signed in the city of Helsinki on September 12, 1923. Junkers F.13 D-335 became the first aircraft of the company, when Aero took delivery of it on March 14, 1924. The first flight was between Helsinki and Tallinn, capital of Estonia, and it took place on March 20, 1924, one week later.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the Chief Administration of the Civil Air Fleet was established in 1921. One of its first acts was to help found Deutsch-Russische Luftverkehrs A.G. (Deruluft), a German-Russian joint venture to provide air transport from Russia to the West. Domestic air service began around the same time, when Dobrolyot started operations on 15 July 1923 between Moscow and Nizhni Novgorod. Since 1932 all operations had been carried under the name Aeroflot.\n\nEarly European airlines tended to favor comfort – the passenger cabins were often spacious with luxurious interiors – over speed and efficiency. The relatively basic navigational capabilities of pilots at the time also meant that delays due to the weather were commonplace.\n\nBy the early 1920s, small airlines were struggling to compete, and there was a movement towards increased rationalization and consolidation. In 1924, Imperial Airways was formed from the merger of Instone Air Line Company, British Marine Air Navigation, Daimler Airway and Handley Page Transport Co Ltd., to allow British airlines to compete with stiff competition from French and German airlines that were enjoying heavy government subsidies. The airline was a pioneer in surveying and opening up air routes across the world to serve far-flung parts of the British Empire and to enhance trade and integration.\n\nThe first new airliner ordered by Imperial Airways, was the Handley Page W8f \"City of Washington\", delivered on 3 November 1924. In the first year of operation the company carried 11,395 passengers and 212,380 letters. In April 1925, the film \"The Lost World\" became the first film to be screened for passengers on a scheduled airliner flight when it was shown on the London-Paris route.\n\nTwo French airlines also merged to form Air Union on 1 January 1923. This later merged with four other French airlines to become Air France, the country's flagship carrier to this day, on 7 October 1933.\n\nGermany's Deutsche Luft Hansa was created in 1926 by merger of two airlines, one of them Junkers Luftverkehr. Luft Hansa, due to the Junkers heritage and unlike most other airlines at the time, became a major investor in airlines outside of Europe, providing capital to Varig and Avianca. German airliners built by Junkers, Dornier, and Fokker were among the most advanced in the world at the time.\n\nIn 1926, Alan Cobham surveyed a flight route from the UK to Cape Town, South Africa, following this up with another proving flight to Melbourne, Australia. Other routes to British India and the Far East were also charted and demonstrated at this time. Regular services to Cairo and Basra began in 1927 and were extended to Karachi in 1929. The London-Australia service was inaugurated in 1932 with the Handley Page HP 42 airliners. Further services were opened up to Calcutta, Rangoon, Singapore, Brisbane and Hong Kong passengers departed London on 14 March 1936 following the establishment of a branch from Penang to Hong Kong.\n\nLike Imperial Airways, Air France and KLM's early growth depended heavily on the needs to service links with far-flung colonial possessions (North Africa and Indochina for the French and the East Indies for the Dutch). France began an air mail service to Morocco in 1919 that was bought out in 1927, renamed Aéropostale, and injected with capital to become a major international carrier. In 1933, Aéropostale went bankrupt, was nationalized and merged into Air France.\n\nAlthough Germany lacked colonies, it also began expanding its services globally. In 1931, the airship Graf Zeppelin began offering regular scheduled passenger service between Germany and South America, usually every two weeks, which continued until 1937. In 1936, the airship Hindenburg entered passenger service and successfully crossed the Atlantic 36 times before crashing at Lakehurst, New Jersey, on May 6, 1937.\n\nFrom February 1934 until World War II began in 1939 Deutsche Lufthansa operated an airmail service from Stuttgart, Germany via Spain, the Canary Islands and West Africa to Natal in Brazil. This was the first time an airline flew across an ocean.\n\nBy the end of the 1930s Aeroflot had become the world's largest airline, employing more than 4,000 pilots and 60,000 other service personnel and operating around 3,000 aircraft (of which 75% were considered obsolete by its own standards). During the Soviet era Aeroflot was synonymous with Russian civil aviation, as it was the only air carrier. It became the first airline in the world to operate sustained regular jet services on 15 September 1956 with the Tupolev Tu-104.\n\nDeregulation of the European Union airspace in the early 1990s has had substantial effect on the structure of the industry there. The shift towards 'budget' airlines on shorter routes has been significant. Airlines such as EasyJet and Ryanair have often grown at the expense of the traditional national airlines.\n\nThere has also been a trend for these national airlines themselves to be privatized such as has occurred for Aer Lingus and British Airways. Other national airlines, including Italy's Alitalia, have suffered – particularly with the rapid increase of oil prices in early 2008.\n\nTony Jannus conducted the United States' first scheduled commercial airline flight on 1 January 1914 for the St. Petersburg-Tampa Airboat Line. The 23-minute flight traveled between St. Petersburg, Florida and Tampa, Florida, passing some above Tampa Bay in Jannus' Benoist XIV wood and muslin biplane flying boat. His passenger was a former mayor of St. Petersburg, who paid $400 for the privilege of sitting on a wooden bench in the open cockpit. The Airboat line operated for about four months, carrying more than 1,200 passengers who paid $5 each. Chalk's International Airlines began service between Miami and Bimini in the Bahamas in February 1919. Based in Ft. Lauderdale, Chalk's claimed to be the oldest continuously operating airline in the United States until its closure in 2008.\n\nFollowing World War I, the United States found itself swamped with aviators. Many decided to take their war-surplus aircraft on barnstorming campaigns, performing aerobatic maneuvers to woo crowds. In 1918, the United States Postal Service won the financial backing of Congress to begin experimenting with air mail service, initially using Curtiss Jenny aircraft that had been procured by the United States Army Air Service. Private operators were the first to fly the mail but due to numerous accidents the US Army was tasked with mail delivery. During the Army's involvement they proved to be too unreliable and lost their air mail duties. By the mid-1920s, the Postal Service had developed its own air mail network, based on a transcontinental backbone between New York City and San Francisco. To supplement this service, they offered twelve contracts for spur routes to independent bidders. Some of the carriers that won these routes would, through time and mergers, evolve into Pan Am, Delta Air Lines, Braniff Airways, American Airlines, United Airlines (originally a division of Boeing), Trans World Airlines, Northwest Airlines, and Eastern Air Lines.\n\nService during the early 1920s was sporadic: most airlines at the time were focused on carrying bags of mail. In 1925, however, the Ford Motor Company bought out the Stout Aircraft Company and began construction of the all-metal Ford Trimotor, which became the first successful American airliner. With a 12-passenger capacity, the Trimotor made passenger service potentially profitable. Air service was seen as a supplement to rail service in the American transportation network.\n\nAt the same time, Juan Trippe began a crusade to create an air network that would link America to the world, and he achieved this goal through his airline, Pan American World Airways, with a fleet of flying boats that linked Los Angeles to Shanghai and Boston to London. Pan Am and Northwest Airways (which began flights to Canada in the 1920s) were the only U.S. airlines to go international before the 1940s.\n\nWith the introduction of the Boeing 247 and Douglas DC-3 in the 1930s, the U.S. airline industry was generally profitable, even during the Great Depression. This trend continued until the beginning of World War II.\n\nWorld War II, like World War I, brought new life to the airline industry. Many airlines in the Allied countries were flush from lease contracts to the military, and foresaw a future explosive demand for civil air transport, for both passengers and cargo. They were eager to invest in the newly emerging flagships of air travel such as the Boeing Stratocruiser, Lockheed Constellation, and Douglas DC-6. Most of these new aircraft were based on American bombers such as the B-29, which had spearheaded research into new technologies such as pressurization. Most offered increased efficiency from both added speed and greater payload.\n\nIn the 1950s, the De Havilland Comet, Boeing 707, Douglas DC-8, and Sud Aviation Caravelle became the first flagships of the Jet Age in the West, while the Eastern bloc had Tupolev Tu-104 and Tupolev Tu-124 in the fleets of state-owned carriers such as Czechoslovak ČSA, Soviet Aeroflot and East-German Interflug. The Vickers Viscount and Lockheed L-188 Electra inaugurated turboprop transport.\n\nOn 4 October 1958, BOAC started transatlantic flights between London Heathrow and New York Idlewild with a Comet 4, and Pan Am followed on 26 October with a B707 service between New York and Paris.\n\nThe next big boost for the airlines would come in the 1970s, when the Boeing 747, McDonnell Douglas DC-10, and Lockheed L-1011 inaugurated widebody (\"jumbo jet\") service, which is still the standard in international travel. The Tupolev Tu-144 and its Western counterpart, Concorde, made supersonic travel a reality. Concorde first flew in 1969 and operated through 2003. In 1972, Airbus began producing Europe's most commercially successful line of airliners to date. The added efficiencies for these aircraft were often not in speed, but in passenger capacity, payload, and range. Airbus also features modern electronic cockpits that were common across their aircraft to enable pilots to fly multiple models with minimal cross-training.\n\nThe 1978 U.S. airline industry deregulation lowered federally controlled barriers for new airlines just as a downturn in the nation's economy occurred. New start-ups entered during the downturn, during which time they found aircraft and funding, contracted hangar and maintenance services, trained new employees, and recruited laid off staff from other airlines.\n\nMajor airlines dominated their routes through aggressive pricing and additional capacity offerings, often swamping new start-ups. In the place of high barriers to entry imposed by regulation, the major airlines implemented an equally high barrier called loss leader pricing. In this strategy an already established and dominant airline stomps out its competition by lowering airfares on specific routes, below the cost of operating on it, choking out any chance a start-up airline may have. The industry side effect is an overall drop in revenue and service quality. Since deregulation in 1978 the average domestic ticket price has dropped by 40%. So has airline employee pay. By incurring massive losses, the airlines of the USA now rely upon a scourge of cyclical Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings to continue doing business. America West Airlines (which has since merged with US Airways) remained a significant survivor from this new entrant era, as dozens, even hundreds, have gone under.\n\nIn many ways, the biggest winner in the deregulated environment was the air passenger. Although not exclusively attributable to deregulation, indeed the U.S. witnessed an explosive growth in demand for air travel. Many millions who had never or rarely flown before became regular fliers, even joining frequent flyer loyalty programs and receiving free flights and other benefits from their flying. New services and higher frequencies meant that business fliers could fly to another city, do business, and return the same day, from almost any point in the country. Air travel's advantages put long distance intercity railroad travel and bus lines under pressure, with most of the latter having withered away, whilst the former is still protected under nationalization through the continuing existence of Amtrak.\n\nBy the 1980s, almost half of the total flying in the world took place in the U.S., and today the domestic industry operates over 10,000 daily departures nationwide.\n\nToward the end of the century, a new style of low cost airline emerged, offering a no-frills product at a lower price. Southwest Airlines, JetBlue, AirTran Airways, Skybus Airlines and other low-cost carriers began to represent a serious challenge to the so-called \"legacy airlines\", as did their low-cost counterparts in many other countries. Their commercial viability represented a serious competitive threat to the legacy carriers. However, of these, ATA and Skybus have since ceased operations.\n\nIncreasingly since 1978, US airlines have been reincorporated and spun off by newly created and internally led management companies, and thus becoming nothing more than operating units and subsidiaries with limited financially decisive control. Among some of these holding companies and parent companies which are relatively well known, are the UAL Corporation, along with the AMR Corporation, among a long list of airline holding companies sometime recognized worldwide. Less recognized are the private equity firms which often seize managerial, financial, and board of directors control of distressed airline companies by temporarily investing large sums of capital in air carriers, to rescheme an airlines assets into a profitable organization or liquidating an air carrier of their profitable and worthwhile routes and business operations.\n\nThus the last 50 years of the airline industry have varied from reasonably profitable, to devastatingly depressed. As the first major market to deregulate the industry in 1978, U.S. airlines have experienced more turbulence than almost any other country or region. In fact, no U.S. legacy carrier survived bankruptcy-free. Among the outspoken critics of deregulation, former CEO of American Airlines, Robert Crandall has publicly stated:\n\n\"Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection filing shows airline industry deregulation was a mistake.\"\n\nCongress passed the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (P.L. 107-42) in response to a severe liquidity crisis facing the already-troubled airline industry in the aftermath of the September 11th terrorist attacks. Through the ATSB Congress sought to provide cash infusions to carriers for both the cost of the four-day federal shutdown of the airlines and the incremental losses incurred through December 31, 2001, as a result of the terrorist attacks. This resulted in the first government bailout of the 21st century. Between 2000 and 2005 US airlines lost $30 billion with wage cuts of over $15 billion and 100,000 employees laid off.\n\nIn recognition of the essential national economic role of a healthy aviation system, Congress authorized partial compensation of up to $5 billion in cash subject to review by the U.S. Department of Transportation and up to $10 billion in loan guarantees subject to review by a newly created Air Transportation Stabilization Board (ATSB). The applications to DOT for reimbursements were subjected to rigorous multi-year reviews not only by DOT program personnel but also by the Government Accountability Office and the DOT Inspector General.\n\nUltimately, the federal government provided $4.6 billion in one-time, subject-to-income-tax cash payments to 427 U.S. air carriers, with no provision for repayment, essentially a gift from the taxpayers. (Passenger carriers operating scheduled service received approximately $4 billion, subject to tax.) In addition, the ATSB approved loan guarantees to six airlines totaling approximately $1.6 billion. Data from the U.S. Treasury Department show that the government recouped the $1.6 billion and a profit of $339 million from the fees, interest and purchase of discounted airline stock associated with loan guarantees.\n\nThe three largest major carriers and Southwest Airlines control 70% of the U.S. passenger market.\n\nAlthough Philippine Airlines (PAL) was officially founded on February 26, 1941, its license to operate as an airliner was derived from merged Philippine Aerial Taxi Company (PATCO) established by mining magnate Emmanuel N. Bachrach on December 3, 1930, making it Asia's oldest scheduled carrier still in operation. Commercial air service commenced three weeks later from Manila to Baguio, making it Asia's first airline route. Bachrach's death in 1937 paved the way for its eventual merger with Philippine Airlines in March 1941 and made it Asia's oldest airline. It is also the oldest airline in Asia still operating under its current name. Bachrach's majority share in PATCO was bought by beer magnate Andres R. Soriano in 1939 upon the advice of General Douglas MacArthur and later merged with newly formed Philippine Airlines with PAL as the surviving entity. Soriano has controlling interest in both airlines before the merger. PAL restarted service on March 15, 1941, with a single Beech Model 18 NPC-54 aircraft, which started its daily services between Manila (from Nielson Field) and Baguio, later to expand with larger aircraft such as the DC-3 and Vickers Viscount.\nKorean Air was one of the first airlines to be launched among the other Asian countries in 1946 along with Asiana Airlines, which later joined in 1988. The license to operate as an airliner was granted by the federal government body after reviewing the necessity at the national assembly. The Hanjin occupies the largest ownership of Korean Air as well as few low-budget airlines as of now. The Korean Air is among the founders of Sky Team, which was established in 2000. Asiana Airlines joined Star Alliance in 2003. Korean Air and Asiana Airlines comprise one of the largest combined airline miles and number of passenger served at the regional market of Asian airline industry\n\nIndia was also one of the first countries to embrace civil aviation. One of the first Asian airline companies was Air India, which was founded as Tata Airlines in 1932, a division of Tata Sons Ltd. (now Tata Group). The airline was founded by India's leading industrialist, JRD Tata. On October 15, 1932, J. R. D. Tata himself flew a single engined De Havilland Puss Moth carrying air mail (postal mail of Imperial Airways) from Karachi to Bombay via Ahmedabad. The aircraft continued to Madras via Bellary piloted by Royal Air Force pilot Nevill Vintcent. Tata Airlines was also one of the world's first major airlines which began its operations without any support from the Government.\n\nWith the outbreak of World War II, the airline presence in Asia came to a relative halt, with many new flag carriers donating their aircraft for military aid and other uses. Following the end of the war in 1945, regular commercial service was restored in India and Tata Airlines became a public limited company on July 29, 1946, under the name Air India. After the independence of India, 49% of the airline was acquired by the Government of India. In return, the airline was granted status to operate international services from India as the designated flag carrier under the name Air India International.\n\nOn July 31, 1946, a chartered Philippine Airlines (PAL) DC-4 ferried 40 American servicemen to Oakland, California, from Nielson Airport in Makati City with stops in Guam, Wake Island, Johnston Atoll and Honolulu, Hawaii, making PAL the first Asian airline to cross the Pacific Ocean. A regular service between Manila and San Francisco was started in December. It was during this year that the airline was designated as the flag carrier of Philippines.\n\nDuring the era of decolonization, newly born Asian countries started to embrace air transport. Among the first Asian carriers during the era were Cathay Pacific of Hong Kong (founded in September 1946), Orient Airways (later Pakistan International Airlines; founded in October 1946), Air Ceylon (later SriLankan Airlines; founded in 1947), Malayan Airways Limited in 1947 (later Singapore and Malaysia Airlines), El Al in Israel in 1948, Garuda Indonesia in 1949, Japan Airlines in 1951, Thai Airways International in 1960, and Korean National Airlines in 1947.\n\nAmong the first countries to have regular airlines in Latin America and the Caribbean were Bolivia with Lloyd Aéreo Boliviano, Cuba with Cubana de Aviación, Colombia with Avianca (the first airline established in the Americas), Argentina with Aerolineas Argentinas, Chile with LAN Chile (today LATAM Airlines), Brazil with Varig, Dominican Republic with Dominicana de Aviación, Mexico with Mexicana de Aviación, Trinidad and Tobago with BWIA West Indies Airways (today Caribbean Airlines), Venezuela with Aeropostal, Puerto Rico with Puertorriquena; and TACA based in El Salvador and representing several airlines of Central America (Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua). All the previous airlines started regular operations well before World War II. Puerto Rican commercial airlines such as Prinair, Oceanair, Fina Air and Vieques Air Link came much after the second world war, as did several others from other countries like Mexico's Interjet and Volaris, Venezuela's Aserca Airlines and others.\n\nThe air travel market has evolved rapidly over recent years in Latin America. Some industry estimates indicate that over 2,000 new aircraft will begin service over the next five years in this region.\n\nThese airlines serve domestic flights within their countries, as well as connections within Latin America and also overseas flights to North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia.\n\nOnly two airlines - Avianca and LATAM Airlines - have international subsidiaries and cover many destinations within the Americas as well as major hubs in other continents. LATAM with Chile as the central operation along with Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil and Argentina and formerly with some operations in the Dominican Republic. The AviancaTACA group has control of Avianca Brazil, VIP Ecuador and a strategic alliance with AeroGal.\n\nMany countries have national airlines that the government owns and operates. Fully private airlines are subject to a great deal of government regulation for economic, political, and safety concerns. For instance, governments often intervene to halt airline labor actions to protect the free flow of people, communications, and goods between different regions without compromising safety.\n\nThe United States, Australia, and to a lesser extent Brazil, Mexico, India, the United Kingdom, and Japan have \"deregulated\" their airlines. In the past, these governments dictated airfares, route networks, and other operational requirements for each airline. Since deregulation, airlines have been largely free to negotiate their own operating arrangements with different airports, enter and exit routes easily, and to levy airfares and supply flights according to market demand.\n\nThe entry barriers for new airlines are lower in a deregulated market, and so the U.S. has seen hundreds of airlines start up (sometimes for only a brief operating period). This has produced far greater competition than before deregulation in most markets. The added competition, together with pricing freedom, means that new entrants often take market share with highly reduced rates that, to a limited degree, full service airlines must match. This is a major constraint on profitability for established carriers, which tend to have a higher cost base.\n\nAs a result, profitability in a deregulated market is uneven for most airlines. These forces have caused some major airlines to go out of business, in addition to most of the poorly established new entrants.\n\nIn the United States, the airline industry is dominated by four large firms. Because of industry consolidation, after fuel prices dropped considerably in 2015, very little of the savings were passed on to consumers.\n\nGroups such as the International Civil Aviation Organization establish worldwide standards for safety and other vital concerns. Most international air traffic is regulated by bilateral agreements between countries, which designate specific carriers to operate on specific routes. The model of such an agreement was the Bermuda Agreement between the US and UK following World War II, which designated airports to be used for transatlantic flights and gave each government the authority to nominate carriers to operate routes.\n\nBilateral agreements are based on the \"freedoms of the air\", a group of generalized traffic rights ranging from the freedom to overfly a country to the freedom to provide domestic flights within a country (a very rarely granted right known as cabotage). Most agreements permit airlines to fly from their home country to designated airports in the other country: some also extend the freedom to provide continuing service to a third country, or to another destination in the other country while carrying passengers from overseas.\n\nIn the 1990s, \"open skies\" agreements became more common. These agreements take many of these regulatory powers from state governments and open up international routes to further competition. Open skies agreements have met some criticism, particularly within the European Union, whose airlines would be at a comparative disadvantage with the United States' because of cabotage restrictions.\n\nIn 2017, 4.1 billion passengers have been carried by airlines in 41.9 million commercial scheduled flights (an average payload of 4100/41.9round0 passengers), for 7.75 trillion passenger kilometres (an average trip of 7750/4.100round0 km) over 45,091 airline routes served globally.\nIn 2016, air transport generated $704.4 billion of revenue in 2016, employed 10.2 million workers, supported 65.5 million jobs and $2.7 trillion of economic activity: 3.6% of the global GDP.\n\nIn July 2016, the total weekly airline capacity was 181.1 billion Available Seat Kilometers (+6.9% compared to July 2015): 57.6bn in Asia-Pacific, 47.7bn in Europe, 46.2bn in North America, 12.2bn in Middle East, 12.0bn in Latin America and 5.4bn in Africa.\n\nHistorically, air travel has survived largely through state support, whether in the form of equity or subsidies. The airline industry as a whole has made a cumulative loss during its 100-year history, once the costs include subsidies for aircraft development and airport construction.\n\nOne argument is that positive externalities, such as higher growth due to global mobility, outweigh the microeconomic losses and justify continuing government intervention. A historically high level of government intervention in the airline industry can be seen as part of a wider political consensus on strategic forms of transport, such as highways and railways, both of which receive public funding in most parts of the world. Although many countries continue to operate state-owned or parastatal airlines, many large airlines today are privately owned and are therefore governed by microeconomic principles to maximize shareholder profit.\n\nIn December 1991, the collapse of Pan Am, an airline often credited for shaping the international airline industry, highlighted the financial complexities faced by major airline companies.\n\nFollowing the 1978 deregulation, U.S. carriers did not manage to make an aggregate profit for 12 years in 31, including four years where combined losses amounted to $10 billion, but rebounded with eight consecutive years of profits since 2010, including its four with over $10 billion profits.\nThey drop loss-making routes, avoid fare wars and market share battles, limit capacity growth, add hub feed with regional jets to increase their profitability.\nThey change schedules to create more connections, buy used aircraft, reduce international frequencies and leverage partnerships to optimise capacities and benefit from overseas connectivity.\n\nThe world's largest airlines can be defined in several ways. American Airlines Group is the largest by its fleet size, revenue, profit, passengers carried and revenue passenger mile. Delta Air Lines is the largest by assets value and market capitalization. Lufthansa Group is the largest by number of employees, FedEx Express by freight tonne-kilometers, Ryanair by number of international passengers carried and Turkish Airlines by number of countries served.\n\nAirlines assign prices to their services in an attempt to maximize profitability. The pricing of airline tickets has become increasingly complicated over the years and is now largely determined by computerized yield management systems.\n\nBecause of the complications in scheduling flights and maintaining profitability, airlines have many loopholes that can be used by the knowledgeable traveler. Many of these airfare secrets are becoming more and more known to the general public, so airlines are forced to make constant adjustments.\n\nMost airlines use differentiated pricing, a form of price discrimination, to sell air services at varying prices simultaneously to different segments. Factors influencing the price include the days remaining until departure, the booked load factor, the forecast of total demand by price point, competitive pricing in force, and variations by day of week of departure and by time of day. Carriers often accomplish this by dividing each cabin of the aircraft (first, business and economy) into a number of travel classes for pricing purposes.\n\nA complicating factor is that of origin-destination control (\"O&D control\"). Someone purchasing a ticket from Melbourne to Sydney (as an example) for A$200 is competing with someone else who wants to fly Melbourne to Los Angeles through Sydney on the same flight, and who is willing to pay A$1400. Should the airline prefer the $1400 passenger, or the $200 passenger plus a possible Sydney-Los Angeles passenger willing to pay $1300? Airlines have to make hundreds of thousands of similar pricing decisions daily.\nThe advent of advanced computerized reservations systems in the late 1970s, most notably Sabre, allowed airlines to easily perform cost-benefit analyses on different pricing structures, leading to almost perfect price discrimination in some cases (that is, filling each seat on an aircraft at the highest price that can be charged without driving the consumer elsewhere).\n\nThe intense nature of airfare pricing has led to the term \"fare war\" to describe efforts by airlines to undercut other airlines on competitive routes. Through computers, new airfares can be published quickly and efficiently to the airlines' sales channels. For this purpose the airlines use the Airline Tariff Publishing Company (ATPCO), who distribute latest fares for more than 500 airlines to Computer Reservation Systems across the world.\n\nThe extent of these pricing phenomena is strongest in \"legacy\" carriers. In contrast, low fare carriers usually offer pre-announced and simplified price structure, and sometimes quote prices for each leg of a trip separately.\n\nComputers also allow airlines to predict, with some accuracy, how many passengers will actually fly after making a reservation to fly. This allows airlines to overbook their flights enough to fill the aircraft while accounting for \"no-shows\", but not enough (in most cases) to force paying passengers off the aircraft for lack of seats, stimulative pricing for low demand flights coupled with overbooking on high demand flights can help reduce this figure. This is especially crucial during tough economic times as airlines undertake massive cuts to ticket prices to retain demand.\n\nOver January/February 2018, the cheapest airline surveyed by price comparator rome2rio was Tigerair Australia with $0.06/km followed by AirAsia X with $0.07/km, while the most expensive was Charterlines, Inc. with $1.26/km followed by Buddha Air with $1.18/km.\n\nFor the IATA, the global airline industry revenue was $754 billion in 2017 for a $38.4 billion collective profit, and should rise by 10.7% to $834 billion in 2018 for a $33.8 billion profit forecast, down by 12% due to rising jet fuel and labor costs.\n\nThe demand for air transport will be less elastic for longer flights than for shorter flights, and more elastic for leisure travel than for business travel.\n\nFull-service airlines have a high level of fixed and operating costs to establish and maintain air services: labor, fuel, airplanes, engines, spares and parts, IT services and networks, airport equipment, airport handling services, sales distribution, catering, training, aviation insurance and other costs. Thus all but a small percentage of the income from ticket sales is paid out to a wide variety of external providers or internal cost centers.\n\nMoreover, the industry is structured so that airlines often act as tax collectors. Airline fuel is untaxed because of a series of treaties existing between countries. Ticket prices include a number of fees, taxes and surcharges beyond the control of airlines. Airlines are also responsible for enforcing government regulations. If airlines carry passengers without proper documentation on an international flight, they are responsible for returning them back to the original country.\n\nAnalysis of the 1992–1996 period shows that every player in the air transport chain is far more profitable than the airlines, who collect and pass through fees and revenues to them from ticket sales. While airlines as a whole earned 6% return on capital employed (2–3.5% less than the cost of capital), airports earned 10%, catering companies 10–13%, handling companies 11–14%, aircraft lessors 15%, aircraft manufacturers 16%, and global distribution companies more than 30%. (Source: Spinetta, 2000, quoted in Doganis, 2002)\n\nThe widespread entrance of a new breed of low cost airlines beginning at the turn of the century has accelerated the demand that full service carriers control costs. Many of these low-cost companies emulate Southwest Airlines in various respects, and like Southwest, they can eke out a consistent profit throughout all phases of the business cycle.\n\nAs a result, a shakeout of airlines is occurring in the U.S. and elsewhere. American Airlines, United Airlines, Continental Airlines (twice), US Airways (twice), Delta Air Lines, and Northwest Airlines have all declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy.\n\nWhere an airline has established an engineering base at an airport, then there may be considerable economic advantages in using that same airport as a preferred focus (or \"hub\") for its scheduled flights.\n\nOperating costs for US major airlines are primarily aircraft operating expense including jet fuel, aircraft maintenance, depreciation and aircrew for 44%, servicing expense for 29% (traffic 11%, passenger 11% and aircraft 7%), 14% for reservations and sales and 13% for overheads (administration 6% and advertising 2%).\nAn average US major Boeing 757-200 flies stages 11.3 block hours per day and costs $2,550 per block hour : $923 of ownership, $590 of maintenance, $548 of fuel and $489 of crew; or $13.34 per 186 seats per block hour.\nFor a Boeing 737-500, a low-cost carrier like Southwest have lower operating costs at $1,526 than a full service one like United at $2,974, and higher productivity with 399,746 ASM per day against 264,284, resulting in a unit cost of 152600/399746round2 $cts/ASM against 297400/264284round2 $cts/ASM.\n\nAirline financing is quite complex, since airlines are highly leveraged operations. Not only must they purchase (or lease) new airliner bodies and engines regularly, they must make major long-term fleet decisions with the goal of meeting the demands of their markets while producing a fleet that is relatively economical to operate and maintain; comparably Southwest Airlines and their reliance on a single airplane type (the Boeing 737 and derivatives), with the now defunct Eastern Air Lines which operated 17 different aircraft types, each with varying pilot, engine, maintenance, and support needs.\n\nA second financial issue is that of hedging oil and fuel purchases, which are usually second only to labor in its relative cost to the company. However, with the current high fuel prices it has become the largest cost to an airline. Legacy airlines, compared with new entrants, have been hit harder by rising fuel prices partly due to the running of older, less fuel efficient aircraft. While hedging instruments can be expensive, they can easily pay for themselves many times over in periods of increasing fuel costs, such as in the 2000–2005 period.\n\nIn view of the congestion apparent at many international airports, the ownership of slots at certain airports (the right to take-off or land an aircraft at a particular time of day or night) has become a significant tradable asset for many airlines. Clearly take-off slots at popular times of the day can be critical in attracting the more profitable business traveler to a given airline's flight and in establishing a competitive advantage against a competing airline.\n\nIf a particular city has two or more airports, market forces will tend to attract the less profitable routes, or those on which competition is weakest, to the less congested airport, where slots are likely to be more available and therefore cheaper. For example, Reagan National Airport attracts profitable routes due partly to its congestion, leaving less-profitable routes to Baltimore-Washington International Airport and Dulles International Airport.\n\nOther factors, such as surface transport facilities and onward connections, will also affect the relative appeal of different airports and some long distance flights may need to operate from the one with the longest runway. For example, LaGuardia Airport is the preferred airport for most of Manhattan due to its proximity, while long-distance routes must use John F. Kennedy International Airport's longer runways.\n\nCodesharing is the most common type of airline partnership; it involves one airline selling tickets for another airline's flights under its own airline code. An early example of this was Japan Airlines' (JAL) codesharing partnership with Aeroflot in the 1960s on Tokyo–Moscow flights; Aeroflot operated the flights using Aeroflot aircraft, but JAL sold tickets for the flights as if they were JAL flights. This practice allows airlines to expand their operations, at least on paper, into parts of the world where they cannot afford to establish bases or purchase aircraft. Another example was the Austrian–Sabena partnership on the Vienna–Brussels–New York/JFK route during the late '60s, using a Sabena Boeing 707 with Austrian livery.\n\nSince airline reservation requests are often made by city-pair (such as \"show me flights from Chicago to Düsseldorf\"), an airline that can codeshare with another airline for a variety of routes might be able to be listed as indeed offering a Chicago–Düsseldorf flight. The passenger is advised however, that airline no. 1 operates the flight from say Chicago to Amsterdam, and airline no. 2 operates the continuing flight (on a different airplane, sometimes from another terminal) to Düsseldorf. Thus the primary rationale for code sharing is to expand one's service offerings in city-pair terms to increase sales.\n\nA more recent development is the airline alliance, which became prevalent in the late 1990s. These alliances can act as virtual mergers to get around government restrictions. Alliances of airlines such as Star Alliance, Oneworld, and SkyTeam coordinate their passenger service programs (such as lounges and frequent-flyer programs), offer special interline tickets, and often engage in extensive codesharing (sometimes systemwide). These are increasingly integrated business combinations—sometimes including cross-equity arrangements—in which products, service standards, schedules, and airport facilities are standardized and combined for higher efficiency. One of the first airlines to start an alliance with another airline was KLM, who partnered with Northwest Airlines. Both airlines later entered the SkyTeam alliance after the fusion of KLM and Air France in 2004.\n\nOften the companies combine IT operations, or purchase fuel and aircraft as a bloc to achieve higher bargaining power. However, the alliances have been most successful at purchasing invisible supplies and services, such as fuel. Airlines usually prefer to purchase items visible to their passengers to differentiate themselves from local competitors. If an airline's main domestic competitor flies Boeing airliners, then the airline may prefer to use Airbus aircraft regardless of what the rest of the alliance chooses.\n\nFuel hedging is a contractual tool used by transportation companies like airlines to reduce their exposure to volatile and potentially rising fuel costs. Several low-cost carriers such as Southwest Airlines adopt this practice.\n\nSouthwest is credited with maintaining strong business profits between 1999 and the early 2000s due to its fuel hedging policy. Many other airlines are replicating Southwest's hedging policy to control their fuel costs.\n\nAirlines often have a strong seasonality, with traffic low in Winter and peaking in Summer. In Europe the most extreme market are the Greek islands with July/August having more than ten times the winter traffic, as Jet2 is the most seasonal among low-cost carriers with July having seven times the January traffic, whereas legacy carriers are much less with only 85/115% variability.\n\nAircraft engines emit noise pollution, gases and particulate emissions, and contribute to global dimming.\n\nGrowth of the industry in recent years raised a number of ecological questions.\n\nDomestic air transport grew in China at 15.5 percent annually from 2001 to 2006. The rate of air travel globally increased at 3.7 percent per year over the same time. In the EU greenhouse gas emissions from aviation increased by 87% between 1990 and 2006. However it must be compared with the flights increase, only in UK, between 1990 and 2006 terminal passengers increased from 100 000 thousands to 250 000 thousands., according to AEA reports every year, 750 million passengers travel by European airlines, which also share 40% of merchandise value in and out of Europe. Without even pressure from \"green activists\", targeting lower ticket prices, generally, airlines do what is possible to cut the fuel consumption (and gas emissions connected therewith). Further, according to some reports, it can be concluded that the last piston-powered aircraft were as fuel-efficient as the average jet in 2005.\n\nDespite continuing efficiency improvements from the major aircraft manufacturers, the expanding demand for global air travel has resulted in growing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Currently, the aviation sector, including US domestic and global international travel, make approximately 1.6 percent of global anthropogenic GHG emissions per annum. North America accounts for nearly 40 percent of the world's GHG emissions from aviation fuel use.\n\nCO2 emissions from the jet fuel burned per passenger on an average airline flight is about 353 kilograms (776 pounds). Loss of natural habitat potential associated with the jet fuel burned per passenger on a airline flight is estimated to be 250 square meters (2700 square feet).\n\nIn the context of climate change and peak oil, there is a debate about possible taxation of air travel and the inclusion of aviation in an emissions trading scheme, with a view to ensuring that the total external costs of aviation are taken into account.\n\nThe airline industry is responsible for about 11 percent of greenhouse gases emitted by the U.S. transportation sector. Boeing estimates that biofuels could reduce flight-related greenhouse-gas emissions by 60 to 80 percent. The solution would be blending algae fuels with existing jet fuel:\n\n\nThere are projects on electric aircraft, and some of them are fully operational as of 2013.\n\nEach operator of a scheduled or charter flight uses an airline call sign when communicating with airports or air traffic control centres. Most of these call-signs are derived from the airline's trade name, but for reasons of history, marketing, or the need to reduce ambiguity in spoken English (so that pilots do not mistakenly make navigational decisions based on instructions issued to a different aircraft), some airlines and air forces use call-signs less obviously connected with their trading name. For example, British Airways uses a \"Speedbird\" call-sign, named after the logo of its predecessor, BOAC, while SkyEurope used \"Relax\".\n\nThe various types of airline personnel include:\nFlight operations personnel including flight safety personnel.\nAirlines follow a corporate structure where each broad area of operations (such as maintenance, flight operations (including flight safety), and passenger service) is supervised by a vice president. Larger airlines often appoint vice presidents to oversee each of the airline's hubs as well. Airlines employ lawyers to deal with regulatory procedures and other administrative tasks.\n\nThe pattern of ownership has been privatized in the recent years, that is, the ownership has gradually changed from governments to private and individual sectors or organizations. This occurs as regulators permit greater freedom and non-government ownership, in steps that are usually decades apart. This pattern is not seen for all airlines in all regions.\n\nGrowth rates are not consistent in all regions, but countries with a de-regulated airline industry have more competition and greater pricing freedom. This results in lower fares and sometimes dramatic spurts in traffic growth. The U.S., Australia, Canada, Japan, Brazil, India and other markets exhibit this trend. The industry has been observed to be cyclical in its financial performance. Four or five years of poor earnings precede five or six years of improvement. But profitability even in the good years is generally low, in the range of 2–3% net profit after interest and tax. In times of profit, airlines lease new generations of airplanes and upgrade services in response to higher demand. Since 1980, the industry has not earned back the cost of capital during the best of times. Conversely, in bad times losses can be dramatically worse. Warren Buffett in 1999 said \"the money that had been made since the dawn of aviation by all of this country's airline companies was zero. Absolutely zero.\"\n\nAs in many mature industries, consolidation is a trend. Airline groupings may consist of limited bilateral partnerships, long-term, multi-faceted alliances between carriers, equity arrangements, mergers, or takeovers. Since governments often restrict ownership and merger between companies in different countries, most consolidation takes place within a country. In the U.S., over 200 airlines have merged, been taken over, or gone out of business since deregulation in 1978. Many international airline managers are lobbying their governments to permit greater consolidation to achieve higher economy and efficiency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49103233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49103233", "title": "Alejandro Ponce", "text": "Alejandro Ponce\n\nAlejandro Ponce (born May 3, 1970, Arequipa) is a Peruvian economist, seasoned global investor, and recognized Latin-American serial entrepreneur. He is one of the founders of Nexus Group (founded 1998), the largest Peruvian private equity firm with total commitments of about 1 billion. For 17 years, Alejandro acted as Managing Partner, and was responsible for creating and sourcing new ventures and investment opportunities, as well as strategic monitoring of the portfolio companies. In 2015 Alejandro decided to leave Nexus Group, expanding his investment scope, and founding ToN Ventures, an angel investment fund with 25 minority stake investments in innovative technology ventures, mainly based in Israel and the Silicon Valley.\n\nIn 2016, after attending Singularity University’s Global Solutions Program, Alejandro founded 01Labs and 01Ventures. 01Labs is a venture builder, to launch in Latin American companies that leverage the rise of exponential technologies and incorporate human-centered design. 01Ventures is an early stage fund that offers Latin American investors and corporations access to technology startups in Israel and Silicon Valley. 01Ventures co-invests alongside top venture capital firms and accelerators, eager to offer their portfolio companies access to the Latin American market.\n\nHis areas of expertise and experience lie within startups, turnaround and growth investment, and back in 2013 he was also named one of the Top 50 most influential people in Latin American private equity by Private Equity World.\n\nThe most important companies he has founded includes Nexus Group, Cineplanet, Casa Andina, Innova Schools, Oechsle, Promart, and ToN Ventures, the newest and most important in the future being 01_Labs and 01_Ventures.\n\nAlejandro Ponce graduated with Honors from Universidad del Pacifico in Lima, Peru. Universidad Del Pacífico is considered one of the most prestigious private education institutes in Peru, characterized by the professional excellence of its graduates who occupy important positions in a wide range of sectors including finance, politics, economics and consultancy. He was recognized as one of the highest achievers at Pacifico, being honored with the Robert Maes Award, given each year to students who succeed in gaining first place in academic performance in the various programs offered by the university. He then moved to the United States, in order to study there, and finally gain an MBA from Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2016, Alejandro received a full scholarship from Google to attend Singularity University’s Global Solutions Program, deepening his expertise in exponential technologies.\n\nPonce began his professional career as an Analyst at Interinvest (Investment Bank in Peru) and during his MBA he worked for Salomon Smith Barney , a Wall Street investment bank that went on to become the investment banking operations of Citigroup after a merger in 1998. \nIn 1998, at age 28, he founded Nexus Group with Rafael Dasso, Carlos Rodríguez Pastor, and Jose Antonio Rosas. As a managing partner he has been responsible for sourcing new ventures and investment opportunities as well as strategic monitoring of the portfolio companies. Since the beginning of his professional career in Nexus Group, he has been responsible for the acquisition or creation of companies such as Cineplanet, Casa Andina, Innova Schools, Oechsle, Promart, Supermercados Peruanos, Inkafarma, Peruplast, Bembos, UTP, Chinawok, Dunkin Donuts, Don Belisario, Popeyes, Papa John's, SMI and Ipae.\n\nIn 2011, he led Nexus Group to raise its first institutional private equity fund NGCP I (Nexus Capital Partners I) with total commitments of $320 million.\n\nIn 2012, Ponce participated in IPO (Initial Public offering) of Inretail, one of the Nexus’s portfolio of $460 million.\n\nIn 2013, he led Nexus Group to raise its second institutional private equity fund NGCP II (Nexus Capital Partners II) with total commitments of $600 million.\n\nIn 2015 Alejandro decided to leave Nexus Group, expanding his investment scope, and founding ToN Ventures.\n\nIn 2016, after attending Singularity University’s Global Solutions Program, Alejandro founded 01Labs and 01Ventures.\n\n• He is a member of the council of the EMPEA (Emerging Markets Private Equity Association), a global industry, independent non-profit organization for private capital in emerging markets.\n\n• He climbed, but did not summited, Mt. Everest \n\n• 1993: Robert Maes Especial Award from Universidad del Pacifico in 1993. Best student in his 5 years of university studies.\n\n• 2010: Appointed as “one of the Top 25 best young person that would transform the Peruvian economy” by \"Semana Económica\" for its 25 Anniversary.\n\n• 2013: Appointed as “one of the Top 50 most influential people in Latin American private equity today” by Private Equity World.\n\n"}
{"id": "11734605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11734605", "title": "American College of Medical Practice Executives", "text": "American College of Medical Practice Executives\n\nThe American College of Medical Practice Executives (ACMPE), established in 1956, supports and promotes the personal and professional growth of leaders to advance the medical practice management profession and is the certification and standard-setting body of the Medical Group Management Association (MGMA). Both are headquartered in Englewood, Colo. Nearly 6,000 members strong, ACMPE developed the standard-setting Body of Knowledge for Medical Practice Management. It grants nationally recognized certification and fellowship designations to the most accomplished medical practice executives and leaders in the profession.\n\nMembers of the ACMPE may obtain recognition for their knowledge and experience by becoming Certified Medical Practice Executives (CMPE) or a Fellow of the American College of Medical Practice Executives (FACMPE). Certification (CMPE) requires candidates who have the requisite two years of relevant experience to demonstrate their proficiency through objective and essay examinations and presentations that include content from the Body of Knowledge for Medical Practice Management. Fellowship (FACMPE) requires the submission of a professional paper or series of case studies by members who have already earned the CMPE designation. Both the CMPE and FACMPE status require the maintenance of continuing education credit hours.\n\nThe Medical Group Management Association defines and advances the medical practice management profession and advocates on its behalf. Its resources help the American College of Medical Practice Executives support and promote the professional growth of leaders.\n\n"}
{"id": "12866457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12866457", "title": "Asia Business Report", "text": "Asia Business Report\n\nAsia Business Report is a business news programme produced by the BBC and is shown on BBC World News during the Asian morning hours. This programme used to be available exclusively in Asia-Pacific, South Asia and Middle East but, as of a 1 February 2010 revamp, is aired worldwide. It is also currently aired on the UK's domestic BBC News and BBC One channel three times daily in the early hours of the morning as part of the \"Newsday\" programme.\n\nIt is broadcast from the BBC's bureau which is in Singapore's central business district. The main presenters are Rico Hizon (Sundays-Wednesdays) and Sharanjit Leyl (Thursdays).\n\n"}
{"id": "3438662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3438662", "title": "Average fixed cost", "text": "Average fixed cost\n\nIn economics, average fixed cost (AFC) is the fixed costs of production (FC) divided by the quantity (Q) of output produced. Fixed costs are those costs that must be incurred in fixed quantity regardless of the level of output produced.\n\nAverage fixed cost is a per-unit-of-output of fixed costs. As the total number of units of the good produced increases, the average fixed cost decreases because the same amount of fixed costs is being spread over a larger number of units of output.\n\nAverage variable cost plus average fixed cost equals average total cost:\n\nAssume a firm produces clothing. When the quantity of the output varies from 5 shirts to 10 shirts, fixed cost would be 30 dollars. In this case, average fixed cost of producing 5 shirts would be 30 dollars divided by 5 shirts, which is 6 dollars. In other words, when 5 shirts are produced, 30 dollars of fixed cost would spread and result in 6 dollars per shirt. Similarly, average fixed cost of producing 10 shirts would be 3 dollars derived from 30 dollars divided by 10 shirts.\nIn Example1, there was no information about average total cost and average variable cost. If the firm knows average total cost and average variable cost, it is possible to find the same result as Example 1. Because average total cost is average variable cost plus average fixed cost, average fixed cost is average total cost minus average variable cost. If producing 5 shirts generates average total cost of 11 dollars and average variable cost of 5 dollars, fixed cost would be 6 dollars. Similarly, the firm produces 10 shirts and average total cost and average variable cost is 10 dollars and 7 dollars respectively. In this case, average fixed cost would be 3 dollars.\n\n"}
{"id": "2393053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393053", "title": "Beverley Randolph", "text": "Beverley Randolph\n\nBeverley Randolph (1754February 7, 1797) was an American politician from Virginia. From 1788 to 1791, he served as the eighth Governor of Virginia.\n\nRandolph was one of four children born to Peter Randolph, son of William Randolph II, and Lucille (Bolling) Randolph, at Turkey Island, a plantation in Henrico County in the Colony of Virginia. One of Randolph's siblings was Ann Bolling Randolph Fitzhugh, wife of William Fitzhugh.\n\nRandolph was educated at The College of William and Mary and married Martha Cocke in 1775. He served in the militia during the American Revolutionary War, was a member of the Virginia Assembly and was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates from 1777 to 1780. When George Wythe withdrew from the Philadelphia Convention of 1787, George Mason suggested that Randolph (who happened to be in Philadelphia at the time) be appointed in his place. The Council and governor decided that in light of the abilities of Virginia's remaining delegates, Wythe did not need to be replaced. Randolph was elected Governor of Virginia in 1788, the first to be elected after Virginia ratified the United States Constitution. He died on his farm near Green Creek in Cumberland County, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45421404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45421404", "title": "Bleached Chemi-ThermoMechanical Pulp", "text": "Bleached Chemi-ThermoMechanical Pulp\n\nBleached Chemi-ThermoMechanical Pulp (BCTMP) is a pulp product used by the paper industry as a less expensive alternative for Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft (NBSK).\n\nBCTMP was first produced by Millar Western in 1988 in its Whitecourt Mill, and was initially used in lower grade paper applications. The product is attractive to producers because it needed less capital to construct the production facilities and provides higher yields than other processes which lowers the total cost of production. In addition, BCTMP provides higher bulk, opacity and stiffness in the final product and the process is more environmentally friendly.\n\n"}
{"id": "290584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290584", "title": "Charles Forte, Baron Forte", "text": "Charles Forte, Baron Forte\n\nCharles Carmine Forte, Baron Forte (1908 – 2007) was a Scottish-Italian caterer and hotelier of Italian origin who founded the leisure and hotels conglomerate that ultimately became the Forte Group. The Forte family are a famous Italian family in a similar way to the Rockefellers and Rothschilds.\n\nCharles Forte was born as Carmine Forte in Mortale, now Monforte, Casalattico, in the province of Frosinone, Italy in 1908. He emigrated from Italy to Scotland at the age of four with his family.\n\nHe attended Alloa Academy and then St. Joseph's College, Dumfries as a boarder, followed by two years in Rome.\n\nAfter Rome, Forte rejoined his family, who had moved to Weston-super-Mare, where his father ran a café with two cousins. Charles's main training at the age of 21 came in Brighton, where he managed the Venetian Lounge for a cousin.\n\nAt 26, he set up his first \"milk bar\" in 1935, the Strand Milk Bar Ltd, in Regent Street, London, having thoroughly researched the location. Soon he began expanding into catering and hotel businesses. At the outbreak of World War II, Forte was interned in the Isle of Man due to his Italian nationality, but he was released after only three months. After the war, his company became Forte Holdings Ltd and bought the Café Royal in 1954. \n\nIn the 1950s, he also opened the first catering facility at Heathrow Airport and the first full British motorway service station for cars at Newport Pagnell, Buckinghamshire, on the M1 motorway in 1959. He purchased the Hungaria Restaurant in Lower Regent St. in 1955.\n\nTrust Houses Group Ltd and Forte Holdings were merged in 1970 to become Trust House Forte or THF. Through mergers and expansion, Forte expanded the Forte Group into a multibillion-pound business. His empire included the Little Chef and Happy Eater roadside restaurants, Crest, Forte Grand, Travelodge and Posthouse hotels, as well as the wine merchant Grierson-Blumenthal and a non-controlling majority stake in the Savoy Hotel.\n\nThe Grierson-Blumenthal stake became a legally \"forced\" acquisition by the group. It had been a personal holding of Charles Forte and fellow directors of the group, supplying liquor to Forte restaurants and hotels at substantial personal profit, until the prejudice to shareholders was realised in the late 1970s (including possible prosecution under the Companies Act) which obliged its acquisition as a subsidiary.\n\nForte was the CEO from 1971 and chairman from 1982 (when his son Rocco took over as CEO) of the Group. Happy Eater and the five Welcome Break major road service outlets were bought from Hanson Trust PLC on 1 August 1986. In the 1990s, the company increased its nominal capital and agreed to the public listed companies compliance regime to become Forte Group plc.\n\nForte passed full control to his son Rocco in 1993, but soon the plc was faced with a hostile takeover bid from Granada. Ultimately, Granada succeeded with a £3.9 billion tender offer in January 1996, which left the family with about £350 million in cash.\n\nOn 28 February 2007, Forte died in his sleep at his home in London, aged 98. He is buried in West Hampstead Cemetery. \n\nForte was knighted by The Queen Mother in 1970 and created a life peer on 2 February 1982 as Baron Forte, of Ripley in the County of Surrey. He was also a knight of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta.\n\nIn January 1943, Forte married Irene Mary Chierico, an English woman with Italian origin too. From the 1950s, Forte lived with an extended family including his parents and children at Greenway Gardens in Frognal, Hampstead, London. They worshipped at the Roman Catholic St. Mary's Church in nearby Holly Lane, Hampstead. \n\nTogether, they had six children, five girls and a boy: \n\nIrene, Lady Forte died in 2010, and she is buried with her husband. His ancestry is centred on records of his birthplace Mortale, now Monforte in Casalattico, Lazio. The Forte family tree has now been fully mapped. Other notable family members include Lisa Forte, social engineering expert and public figure.\n"}
{"id": "22840014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22840014", "title": "Chief of Naval Operations Aviation Safety Award", "text": "Chief of Naval Operations Aviation Safety Award\n\nThe Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) \"Aviation Safety Award\", also known as the \"Safety \"S\"\", is awarded annually to U.S. Navy and United States Marine Corps aviation units operating under Navy chains of command. \n\n One squadron from each type aircraft (e.g. E-2 Hawkeye, FA-18 Hornet, P-3 Orion, etc.) from each coast (i.e. East and West) is chosen. For example, one SH-60 Seahawk squadron from NAS Norfolk, Virginia and one SH-60 squadron from NAS North Island, California is chosen each year. Marine squadrons that deploy with Navy units are also eligible. Selected squadrons receive engraved plaques and citations for permanent display, and are also entitled to paint a prominent \"S\" on their aircraft until the next year's selections are made.\n\nSelection of winners is based on aircraft flight mishap rates, ground mishaps, currency of safety programs, flight exposure (aircraft-days embarked aboard ship (if appropriate), aircraft-day deployed away from home base (if applicable), etc.). Subjective criteria are also used. These include quality contributions to the Naval Aviation Safety Program, such as timely reporting of hazards, recommendations for corrective action, safety articles for publication, suggestions for improvement in equipment (survival, aircraft, ground support, etc.) facilities, and maintenance practices, and other matters considered appropriate.\n\n- CNO INSTRUCTION OPNSVINST 1650.28A \n"}
{"id": "27567050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27567050", "title": "Christopher Schläffer", "text": "Christopher Schläffer\n\nChristopher Schlaeffer (born August 23, 1969) is a European technology executive and serial founder. He is the former Chief Digital Officer of VEON (NASDAQ: VEON) as well as Chief Product and Innovation Officer of Deutsche Telekom (XETRA: DTE).\n\nChristopher Schlaeffer was born on August 23, 1969 and raised by his mother together with 2 brothers and one sister in Maishofen, Austria. He graduated from Vienna University of Economics and Business in 1993, with a thesis on ecological tax reform.\n\nSchlaeffer started his business career with Accenture, the international consulting, technology and outsourcing company.\n\nIn 1998 he joined Deutsche Telekom, one of the world's leading integrated telecommunications companies. In 2000, at age 31, he became Chief Strategy Officer to play a key role in Deutsche Telekom's transformation. In 2002 his responsibilities were extended to also include Research and Development, Technology (CTO) and IT (CIO) for the group.\n\nIn 2006, Christopher Schlaeffer became Deutsche Telekom's Chief Product & Innovation Officer and thus in charge of the global product portfolio. In this role he was a member of the group's Executive Operating Board and responsible for strategic partnerships with for example Apple, Samsung and Google. In 2007, Christopher and Tim Cook signed Apple´s first partnership on iPhone outside the US. On September 23, 2008 together with Larry Page, Sergey Brin, Andy Rubin, Peter Chou and Cole Brodman he unveiled the world's first mobile phone based on Android, T-Mobile G1.\n\nIn 2010, Schlaeffer left Deutsche Telekom to become an entrepreneur and founded yetu. After 4 years of development at IFA Consumer Electronics Show 2014 in Berlin yetu launched the world´s first open connected home platform for web applications usable across devices and operating systems. In 2015 Schlaeffer had to wind down yetu due to a failed funding round, but utilized the open source technology to found NYOUM, a multi-service delivery platform for the connected home.\n\nIn 2016 VEON, one of the largest mobile network operators in the world with more than 200 million customers, appointed Christopher Schläffer as Chief Commercial and Digital Officer and member of its Group Executive Committee to help transform the traditional telco into a tech company out of London. In this role, he was instrumental to returning the business to revenue growth, rebranding the company into VEON and the development of a free internet platform integrating communication, messaging and applications into a new eco-system for a contextual internet. By the end of 2018, Christopher chose to leave VEON and return to being an entrepreneur. \n\nChristopher Schlaeffer is married and father of 2 daughters. He takes interest in public policy, promoting an “eco-social” market economy and the open information society.\n\nHe was a founding member of the International Beethoven Piano Competition.\n\nIn 2007, Christopher Schlaeffer was recognized as a “Young Global Leader” by the World Economic Forum.\nAs founder of yetu, Christopher received the German Energy Efficiency Prize as well as the award „Landmark in the Land of Ideas“ dedicated to the digital revolution by the German Federal President in 2015. Christopher was named one of the \"100 Most Innovative Chief Digital Officers globally\" as well as one of the “Top50 Innovators To Watch”.\n\n"}
{"id": "45071792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45071792", "title": "Claudio Cirigliano", "text": "Claudio Cirigliano\n\nSergio Claudio Cirigliano is an Argentinian businessman who, with his brother Mario, operates major rail and bus concessions in Buenos Aires and elsewhere in Argentina through the Grupo Plaza conglomerate. One source has described the brothers as making up “one of the most powerful business groups in the country.”\n\nCirigliano and his brother were widely held responsible for the deadly Once railway disaster in February 2012, which occurred on one of the railway lines that they ran, because they had allegedly pocketed government subsidies intended to cover maintenance costs. Grupo Plaza was said to have been awarded concessions for rail and bus lines because of Cirigliano's close friendships with Presidents Carlos Menem, Nestor Kirchner, and Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. Also, Cirigliano was accused of having bribed Secretaries of Transportation Ricardo Jaime and Juan Pablo Schiavi, who directly oversaw the awarding of rail and bus concessions. Later in 2012, both Cirigliano and his brother Mario went on trial on charges of corruption and fraudulent administration in connection with the Once crash.\n\n\"La Nación\" described him as the “successful driver of the K line,” the “K” being a sardonic reference to his close connections to the Kirchner family.\n\nCirigliano is the son of Nicola Cirigliano, who was born in Vaglio Basilicata, Italy, and moved to Argentina at age 18. After working as a laborer and truck driver, Nicola borrowed money from a friend and bought a bus route. This was the beginning of a transport firm, originally called Transporte Automotor Plaza, which he founded in 1959. Claudio, born in 1964 or 1965 (in September 2009, he was 44 years old), was Nicola's last-born son. Claudio grew up in Parque Patricios and studied at a technical college.\n\nAfter completing his studies, Cirigliano went to work in the family business. In 1975, for health reasons, Nicola handed over the management of his business to Claudio and his two other sons. At that time the family owned a few passenger buses for an urban line namely the two bus lines, 61 and 62.\nClaudio Cirigliano's friendships with presidents Carlos Menem and Nestor Kirchner played a crucial role in the growth of the family business, winning the Ciriglianos more and more concessions and subsidies. One source attributes their success largely to their ability to form “strategic ties with shifting political powers.” The Cirigliano brothers have been described as being “forever friends of power,” whose business was created and maintained through government subsidies. Claudio's closeness to Menem is reflected in the fact that he was part of the entourage that accompanied Menem on his first visit to the UK. In the 1990s, the two men played golf together frequently.\n\nThe business empire of Claudio Cirigliano and his brother began to grow significantly in the 1990s, when they profited from the privatization of many rail lines under Menem, who gave them control of several of the lines. During this time the brothers established or bought many companies which became subsidiaries of the family firm, which was originally named Transporte Automotor Plaza and which later changed its name to Grupo Plaza. In 1991 the Ciriglianos formed the holding company Comercio Metropolitano de Transporte (Cometrans). Today, Grupo Plaza is the main shareholder in Cometrans. The formation of the holding company Cometrans made it possible for the Cirigliano brothers to obtain the concession for the Metrovías SA subway service, which they held from 1994 to 2000.\n\nIn 1993, the brothers acquired the San Martin General Military Factory, which they made the headquarters of their firm Emprendimientos Ferroviarios S.A. (EMFER), which is involved in the repair and maintenance of railroad cars, and Tecnología Avanzada en Transporte SA (TATSA), which assembles and repairs buses. In 1993 they acquired Lines 143, 141, and 36; in 1994, they acquired 140, 142, and 133; in 1998 they acquired Línes 124 and 114. The Ciriglianos also bought stock in the Line 104 firm. In 1994 they were granted the concession to run Trenes de Buenos Aires (TBA), which controls the Mitre and Sarmiento train lines; they began running it in 1995. The TBA concession marked the beginning of their climb to prominence with no notable hindrance under the Kirchner administration. Between 1994 and 2000 Cometrans ran the Metrovías concession, and from 1998 to 2007 it was one of the firms that ran the Metro in Río de Janeiro through the Opportrans consortium.\n\nWhile Menem, during his presidency, helped the Ciriglianos to acquire railway lines, Kirchner, in his time, helped them expand into the long-distance bus sector. which became the focus of their expansion efforts in 2003. The family business is also said to have greatly benefited from Claudio Cirigliano's close relationship with Domingo Cavallo, who served as Minister of the Economy under Menem and Fernando de la Rúa. At one point, the state paid the Cirigliano brothers seventy million dollars to cover ten years' worth of repairs to the trains running on the Sarmiento and Mitre lines.\n\nIn addition to his close ties to the late Nestor Kirchner and to current President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, Cirigliano has had longstanding connections with several leading Kirchnerite politicians. In 2003, he collected campaign contributions for Kirchnerite politician Anibal Fernandez; he gave Ricardo Jaime, Nestor Kirchner's Transportation Secretary, a Toyota in 2003 and a horse in 2007; and he once sent a doctor to treat Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner's Minister of Planning, Julio De Vido, for diabetes. Claudio owns a Citation 501 plane, which he has lent to public officials. One reflection of Cirigliano's closeness to the Kirchers is the fact that for six months, at the request of the government, he paid the salaries of employees of the defunct airline Southern Winds, to which the brothers had no connection.\n\nOver time, Grupo Plaza came to run public transport throughout Argentina. As of 2009, the Ciriglianos owned 21 of the 135 local bus lines in Buenos Aires and several more in La Pampa and Bahia Blanca, plus a number of long-distance bus routes, in addition to the Sarmiento and Mitre railway lines. Grupo Plaza also has investments in Miami.\n\nThe three Cirigliano brothers own Grupo Plaza jointly. Sources disagree on the way in which they divide their responsibilities. According to the Argentina Independent, Mario is officially the head of the firm, while Claudio is head of Trenes Buenos Aires (TBA). According to \"La Nación\", Claudio manages the department that deals with lines of transport, while Mario is in charge of the subsidiary Consorcio Metropolitano de Transporte (Cometrans); in turn, says La Nación, Cometrans controls the firms TBA (trains), Emfer (rail equipment construction), TAT SA (bus construction) and Ferrovial Baires (buildings and railway infrastructure). Another source describes Claudio as the head of Cometrans and his brother Antonio as the head of TBA. Yet another source identifies Claudio as the largest shareholder in TBA and Roque Cirigliano, the brothers' cousin, as manager of TBA's rolling stock. Still another source describes Grupo Plaza as the transport division of the Cirigliano Group, with TBA, Emfer, and TATSA also being divisions of the Cirigliano Group, along with Lua La porteña (an insurance firm), Opportrans, and, until 2007, Rio de Janeiro Metro (both foreign concessions). The Cirigliano Group is also involved in bilateral projects, such as the railroad between Argentina and Uruguay.\n\nIn addition to accumulating bus and train routes, both urban and interurban, the Ciriglianos were contracted to manufacture and repair vehicles and to maintain infrastructure. They also opened a travel agency, Pasajes Express, and a company that places advertisements on trains, buses, and streets. Grupo Plaza owns Transmedios, a PR firm, which was founded in 2007, and in 2009 they founded Ticketrans, which sells farecards for the trains and buses operated by the group. Grupo Plaza has also been a main beneficiaries of the national government's “TV for All” plan to prove free TV to 1.2 million welfare recipients. Televisión Digital Terrestre (TDT), a holding company that is a subsidiary of Grupo Plaza, won a contract to supply decoders for the plan. Under the umbrella of Cometrans, meanwhile, is the firm Consorcio New Tronic, which manufactures signal converters that are also part of the “TV for All” plan. The firm obtained a 160 million peso contract for the manufacture of 1.2 million digital converters.\n\nA 2013 report stated that the brothers own two passenger-transport firms in Miami, Travelynx and Red Coach. In 2009, they bought Travelynx, which operates private shuttles. Later they bought Red Coach, which specializes in “luxury transport.” Also, the brothers own a subsidiary of Cometrans called Cometrans Qatar, founded in 2009 with the purpose of entering the Arab market. On behalf of Cometrans Qatar, Claudio Cirigliano carried out negotiations with Qatargas that concluded in January 2011. The result was an arrangement whereby Argentina would import 8 million dollars' worth of gasoline per day. Cometrans Qatar also constructed a 2,177-kilometer railway line connecting parts of Saudi Arabia with the United Arab Emirates. The firm also entered into a collaborative arrangement in January 2010 with Aamal Company QSC.\n\nToday Grupo Plaza calls itself “la empresa de impresas” – “the business of businesses.” It operates 40 urban lines, 20 in the City of Buenos Aires, 12 in the city of Bahía Blanca and 8 lines in the city of Santa Rosa, La Pampa. The group also owns the firms Transporte Automotor Plaza, Mayo Transporte Automotor, Transporte Mariano Moreno, Transporte 104, Ecotrans (which runs 10 rural bus lines), Dumas Cat, Plus Ultra Mercobus, and El Rápido Argentino. Transporte Automotor Plaza, Dumas Cat, Plus Ultra Mercobus, and El Rápido Argentino all run medium- and long-distance services. The following firms provide the following transport services: Transporte Automotor Plaza runs lines 114, 124, 133, 140, 142, 143; Mayo Transporte Automotor runs line 141; Transporte Mariano Moreno runs line 36; Ecotrans runs the provincial lines 253, 321, 322, 317, 503, and 635. Grupo Plaza also controls the firm Sistemas Integrados de Gestion (SIG) SA, which provides IT services and develops software and other computer technology with transport applications. The Cirigliano family has control of city trains that transport 40 percent of the daily urban train traffic in Buenos Aires.\n\nToday the company received billions of pesos in government subsidies. As of 2009, Cometrans was receiving 55 million pesos from the Argentinian government, 37 million for operating trains and 18 million for operating local transport. The Cirigliano Group received 76.9 million pesos (17.7M USD) in subsidies in January 2012. Claudio Cirigliano has maintained that the subsidies are necessary to keep fares down. In 2012, TBA was expected to receive more than two million pesos in state subsidies per day, totaling 832.5 million pesos annually. The Ciriglianos are also permitted to purchase gasoline at discounted prices.\n\nIndependently from Grupo Plaza, Claudio Cirigliano owns Yaniel SA, which is active in cattle raising. He also runs Invercla Inversora SA, an investment firm, and Ibancor, a real-estate firm. Mario Cirigliano owns Travel Shop SA, a marketing firm, and publishes Fuente: Revista Desafío Económico. Both brothers are on the payroll of the investment firm BC Austral. Their insurance firms Lua Seguros and Seguros La Porteña have been described as “judicially very irregular” and have been accused of having “swindled thousands of clients” in cases that led to numerous “unresolved lawsuits.”\n\nFor a time in the 1990s, Claudio Cirigliano also owned a security firm called Centauro.\n\nOn February 22, 2012, a train crashed at the Once railway station, killing 51 people. The train was on the Sarmiento line, operated by TBA. Blame was placed on Claudio Cirigliano and his brothers, who were accused of obtaining the railroad concession through favoritism and bribery and of pocketing government subsidies intended to cover maintenance costs. Specifically, the brothers were accused of bribing Ricardo Jaime, who served as Secretary of Transportation from 2003 to 2009, and Juan Pablo Schiavi, who held the same post from 2009 to 2012, with personal gifts and free travel.\n\nA news report on February 24, 2012, stated that Jaime was facing charges in court that he had received “free vacation flights from Claudio Cirigliano, whose holding company owns Trenes de Buenos Aires (TBA), the company that runs the Sarmiento line and others.” The lawsuit maintained that Claudio Cirigliano had “paid for plane tickets to Brazil for Jaime, who at the time was in charge of granting subsidies to the private concession-holders running the rail system, so that they would keep ticket prices down.”\n\nHéctor Polino, founder of a citizens group called Consumidores Libres (Free Consumers), which had filed many complaints against the firms running Argentina's railways, was quoted in the February 24 report as saying that when he was in the legislature, and the courts issued an interim measure to keep the transport companies from raising ticket prices, Cirigliano had tried repeatedly to get Polino to meet him at somewhere other than his congressional office; when Polino kept refusing, Cirigliano pressured him to cease pushing forward with the case, as did a representative of the transport workers union who said he was acting in Cirigliano’s name. It was suggested that the Argentinian government had failed to “impose the necessary controls on TBA and its owner, the Cirigliano Group, due to its close personal relations with the president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner.”\n\nAfter the Once crash, the Argentinian government withdrew control of the Mitre and Sarmiento train lines from Grupo Plaza.\n\nOn March 5, 2012, Federal Judge Claudio Bonadio banned Cirigliano and Transportation Secretary Juan Pablo Schiavi from leaving the country while an investigation of the Once crash proceeded. On June 5, 2012, Bonadio ordered Cirigliano's arrest along with that of three other TBA executives for obstructing the investigation of the Once crash. Also arrested were Carlo Ferrari, president of TBA; Dario Tempone, managing director of TBA; and Daniel Rubio, director of administration for TBA. Bonadio stated that Cirigliano had caused key evidence about government payments to TBA to disappear and that it was impossible to determine how the millions of dollars received by TBA from the government had been spent. Documents that Cirigliano had allegedly caused to disappear were eventually found in a reservoir.\n\nOn June 19, 2012, Federal Prosecutor Federico Delgado requested the prosecution of thirty persons, including Claudio and Antonio Cirigliano and former transport secretaries Juan Pablo Schiavi and Ricardo Jaime, in connection with the Once train crash. During the trial that ensued, Claudio Cirigliano told the court that TBA had a debt of approximately 1.9 billion pesos and said that money could be set aside to help the families of the crash victims.\n\n\"La Nación\" reported on October 19, 2012, that Claudio and Mario Cirigliano, as well as former Secretaries of Transport Ricardo Jaime and Juan Pablo Schiavi, were being prosecuted in connection with the Once crash. The Cirigliano brothers were charged with conspiracy. While Bonadio had also indicted seven former TBA officials, he dismissed charges against the driver of the wrecked train, Marco Antonio Córdoba, and Antonio Sícaro, former comptroller of the National Commission for Transport Regulation (CNRT). La Nación further noted that Bonadio had ordered the Cirigliano brothers held in pre-trial detention, but that the Federal Chamber had cancelled the order. La Nación also quoted Minister of Interior and Transportation Florencio Randazzo as saying that the Sarmiento and Mitre train lines were “calamitous, a real disaster” as a result of the granting of the concession to the Cirigliano family.\n\nOn June 12, 2013, it was reported that judges of the Second Chamber of the Federal Criminal and Correctional Court of Appeals had removed the “lack of merit” clause protecting Mario Cirigliano from being questioned in the Once train crash. Both Claudio and Mario were charged with corruption and fraudulent administration in connection with the Once train crash.\n\nAn October 5, 2013, report stated that Claudio Cirigliano had been “accused of paying for the Brazilian holidays of the previous transport minister, Ricardo Jaime, as a tacit thank you for the millions of dollars in subsidies TBA has received from the state.” Also, a judicial investigation had established that Cirigliano “had bought costly Polynesian furniture and thousands of dollars’ worth of jewellery with a corporate credit card.”\n\nThe Chamber of Appeals declared inadmissible on September 24, 2014, appeals by Claudio Cirigliano and Jaime, who were on trial for the exchange of gifts.\n\nBecause of his size, Cirigliano was nicknamed “El Gordo” until 2008, when he had a gastric bypass operation and lost a good deal of weight.\n\n"}
{"id": "12427043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12427043", "title": "Consulting-Specifying Engineer", "text": "Consulting-Specifying Engineer\n\nConsulting-Specifying Engineer () is a trade publication and website owned by CFE Media, serving the information needs of engineering personnel who perform various consulting engineering activities.\nThe magazine is published monthly and covers Consulting-Specifying Engineering subjects, such as: Mechanical, Electrical, Plumbing, Lighting, Fire and Life Safety, and Controls/BAS Engineering. Other subject areas include Career and Engineering trends, Codes and Standards, and Convention coverage.\n\nConsulting-Specifying Engineer publishes several programs throughout each year:\n\n\"Consulting-Specifying Engineer\" has existed since 1987 in its current form, a combination of two monthly, older publications: Consulting Engineer (dating back to 1952) and Actual Specifying Engineer (1958).\n\nIn April 2010, former owner Reed Business Information announced the magazine's closure; later that month, \"Control Engineering\", \"Consulting-Specifying Engineer\" and \"Plant Engineering\" were acquired by a new company, CFE Media LLC.\n\n, total BPA circulation was 46,714 engineer subscribers employed by consulting, engineer/architectural, design/build firms, or in-house engineers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13189077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13189077", "title": "Daily Mail aviation prizes", "text": "Daily Mail aviation prizes\n\nBetween 1906 and 1930, the Daily Mail newspaper, initially on the initiative of its proprietor, Alfred Harmsworth, 1st Viscount Northcliffe, awarded numerous prizes for achievements in aviation. The newspaper would stipulate the amount of a prize for the first aviators to perform a particular task in aviation, or to the winner of an aviation race or event. The most famous prizes were the £1,000 for the first cross-channel flight awarded to Louis Blériot in 1909 and the £10,000 given in 1919 to Alcock and Brown for the first non-stop transatlantic flight between North America and Ireland.\n\nThe prizes are credited with advancing the course of aviation during the early years, with the considerable sums offered becoming a much-coveted goal for the field's pioneers.\n\nIn addition, four \"consolation\" prizes were awarded:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3989727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3989727", "title": "David E. Sanger", "text": "David E. Sanger\n\nDavid E. Sanger (born July 5, 1960 in White Plains, New York) is the chief Washington correspondent for \"The New York Times\". A 1982 graduate of Harvard College, Sanger has been writing for the \"Times\" for 30 years covering foreign policy, globalization, nuclear proliferation, and the presidency.\n\nHe has been a member of two teams that won the Pulitzer Prize, and has been awarded numerous honors for national security and foreign policy coverage. He is the author of three books: \"Confront and Conceal: Obama's Secret Wars and Surprising Use of American Power\" (Crown, June 2012); \"The Inheritance: The World Obama Confronts and the Challenges to American Power\" (Harmony, 2009), which was a best-seller; and \"The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage, and Fear in the Cyber Age\" (Crown, 2018).\n\nSanger is the son of Joan S. and Kenneth E. Sanger. His paternal grandfather was Elliott Sanger, a co-founder of WQXR-FM, the radio station of The New York Times; and his paternal grandmother Eleanor Naumburg Sanger (grandniece of Elkan Naumburg), who served as program director of WQXR. He has one sister, Ellin Gail Sanger Agress. He graduated magna cum laude in government from Harvard College.\n\nIn 1987, he married Sherill Ann Leonard, a law clerk, in a non-denominational ceremony in the Memorial Church of Harvard University.\n\nDavid E. Sanger is chief Washington correspondent for \"The New York Times\" and one of the newspaper's senior writers. In a 30-year career at the paper, he has reported from New York, Tokyo and Washington, specializing in foreign policy, national security and the politics of globalization. Soon after joining the \"Times\" in 1982, Sanger began specializing in the confluence of economic and foreign policy. Throughout the ‘80’s and ‘90’s, he wrote extensively about how issues of national wealth and competitiveness came to redefine the relationships between the United States and its major allies. He was correspondent and then bureau chief in Tokyo for six years, travelling widely in Asia. He wrote some of the first pieces describing North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, the rise and fall of Japan as one of the world’s economic powerhouses, and China’s emerging role.\n\nReturning to Washington in 1994, he took up the position of Chief Washington Economic Correspondent, and covered a series of global economic upheavals, from Mexico to the Asian economic crisis. He was named a senior writer in March 1999, and White House correspondent later that year. He was named Chief Washington Correspondent in October 2006. In 1986 Sanger played a major role in the team that investigated the causes of the space shuttle Challenger disaster. The team revealed the design flaws and bureaucratic troubles that contributed to the disaster, and won the 1987 Pulitzer Prize for national reporting. A decade later he was a member of another Pulitzer-winning team that wrote about the Clinton administration's struggles to control exports to China.\n\nSanger was awarded, in 2004, the Weintal Prize for diplomatic reporting for his coverage of the Iraq and Korea crises. He also won the Aldo Beckman prize for coverage of the presidency. In both 2003 and 2007 he was awarded the Merriman Smith Memorial Award for coverage of national security strategy. He also shared the American Society of Newspaper Editors' top award for deadline writing in 2004, for team coverage of the Columbia disaster. In 2007, \"The New York Times\" received the DuPont Award from the Columbia Journalism School for \"Nuclear Jihad: Can Terrorists Get the Bomb?\", a documentary featuring him and colleague William J. Broad, and their investigation into the A.Q. Khan nuclear proliferation network. Their revelations in the \"Times\" about the network became a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize. In 2011, Sanger was part of another team that was a Pulitzer Prize finalist for International Reporting for their coverage of the Japanese tsunami and nuclear disaster.\n\nSanger has written two books on US foreign policy. His first book is \"The New York Times\" best-seller \"The Inheritance: The World Obama Confronts and the Challenges to American Power\" (2009), based on his seven years as the \"Times\" White House correspondent, covering two wars, the confrontations with Iran, North Korea and other states that are described in Western media as \"rogue\" states, and America’s efforts to deal with the rise of China.\n\nSanger's second book \"Confront and Conceal: Obama's Secret Wars and Surprising Use of American Power\" (2012) is an account of how Obama has dealt with those challenges, relying on innovative weapons (such as UAVs and cyberwarfare, such as Operation Olympic Games) and reconfigured tools of American power.\n\nIn 2016 General James Cartwright, then the retired Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, pleaded guilty to making false statements in connection with the unauthorized disclosure of classified information, some of which appeared in one of the two books by David Sanger.\n\nSanger's 2018 book is \"The Perfect Weapon: War, Sabotage, and Fear in the Cyber Age\".\n\nSanger is also an adjunct lecturer in public policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, where he is also the first National Security and the Press fellow at the school’s Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.\n\nSanger appears regularly on public affairs and news shows, including \"Washington Week\", the \"Charlie Rose Show\" on PBS, Foreign Policy's \"The Editor's Roundtable\" podcast, and the \"Deep State Radio\" podcast. Sanger also appears regularly on the three main Sunday news shows, \"Face the Nation\", \"Meet the Press\" and \"This Week\". He also delivers the weekly \"Washington Report on WQXR\", part of New York Public Radio.\n\nSanger is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Aspen Strategy Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "559251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559251", "title": "Featherbedding", "text": "Featherbedding\n\nFeatherbedding is the practice of hiring more workers than are needed to perform a given job, or to adopt work procedures which appear pointless, complex and time-consuming merely to employ additional workers. The term \"make-work\" is sometimes used as a synonym for featherbedding.\n\nThe term \"featherbedding\" is usually used by management to describe behaviors and rules sought by workers. The term may equally apply to mid- and upper-level management, particularly in regard to top-heavy and \"bloated\" levels of middle- and upper-level management. Featherbedding has also been occasionally used to describe rent-seeking behavior by corporations in response to economic regulation.\n\nThe term \"featherbedding\" originally referred to any person who is pampered, coddled, or excessively rewarded. The term originated in the use of feathers to fill mattresses in beds, providing for more comfort. The modern use of the term in the labor relations setting began in the United States railroad industry, which used feathered mattresses in sleeping cars. Railway labor unions, confronted with changing technology which led to widespread unemployment, sought to preserve jobs by negotiating contracts which required employers to compensate workers to do little or no work or which required complex and time-consuming work rules so as to generate a full day's work for an employee who otherwise would not remain employed.\n\nIn a 1965 bulletin the United States Department of Labor referred to \"featherbedding\" as:\nSince the mid-19th century, \"featherbedding\" has been most commonly used in the labor relations field. Increasingly, the term has come to refer only to work rules or collective bargaining agreements demanded by labor unions.\n\nIn nations where trade union activities are legally defined, legal definitions of featherbedding exist. These definitions are few in number, and tend to be narrowly drawn. For example, the Taft-Hartley Act in the United States defines featherbedding in Section 8(b)(6) as any agreement or union demand for payment of wages for services which are not performed or not to be performed. However, in 1953, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that the Act's definition only applies to payments for workers not to work. Therefore, work rules requiring minimum crew sizes, the assignment of duties to craft workers, and other \"make-work\" agreements do not constitute featherbedding.\n\nFeatherbedding is commonly seen by economists as a solution to \"who should bear the burden of technological change?\"\n\nLabor economists often argue that featherbedding is the most economically optimal position from both an employer's and employee's perspective. Featherbedding only emerges under certain circumstances. Chief among these is that the employer has an exploitable surplus (e.g., profit) to support the practice. Featherbedding also arises where market forces fail and organizations are permitted to be noncompetitive. Under this analysis, corporations (for example) are already inefficient and featherbedding does not make them more or less so. Featherbedding can, in some circumstances, take excess resources (profits) away from the employer and give them to workers in the form of more income per worker or higher numbers of employees at the same income level. Featherbedding is considered economically efficient because it occurs in the give-and-take of collective bargaining. If employers were relatively strong vis-a-vis unions, unions would be unable to impose featherbedding on them. As the politico-socio-economic strength of each party changes over time, collective bargaining outcomes will as well, enlarging or reducing the number and impact of featherbedding rules on the employer.\n\nMore recent political analyses of featherbedding have concluded that featherbedding is not necessarily economically optimal, but is better than other forms of bargaining. Under this analysis, the best form of collective bargaining would be one in which the union and employer bargain not only over wages but the level of employment. Most unions in the United States, for example, bargain solely over wages. Bargaining over work rules (featherbedding) as well as wages achieves outcomes close to those reached by bargaining solely over wages, but is better than bargaining over wages alone.\n\nLegal scholars and certain social theorists argue that featherbedding may be an expression of the concept of a job as a property right. These analysts argue that while the owner or employer has the \"right\" to extract profit because of his or her investment of capital, so the worker has the \"right\" to extract profit because of his or her investment of labor. Featherbedding, it is argued, arises and becomes a significant problem in places where the job property right is not part of the legal regime and remains unprotected (such as the United States).\n\nSeizing on economists' emphasis on power in the workplace, other social theorists conclude that featherbedding is a result of weak labor unions and unenforced and unprotected worker rights. Under this analysis, featherbedding is a response by unions to their weakness, not strength.\n\nImproved workplace employment rights, improved economic policies and less antagonistic labor-management relations, it is argued, would reduce featherbedding.\n\nOthers see certain kinds of featherbedding as a corrective for market failures. For example, the delivery of social services is often not quantifiable except in the extreme. When the market is unable to quantify a good or service, the market will fail to accurately price it. Market failure results. In complex organizations, or in those whose inputs and outputs are difficult to quantify, it becomes increasingly difficult to determine what constitutes featherbedding. For example, defining \"quality health care\" is problematic, as is defining a \"quality education\". In such situations, frontline professional workers place heavy emphasis on work rules and minimums. Many white-collar professionals (in particular those such as nurses and teachers) and highly skilled craft workers place heavy emphasis on staffing minimums, for example, as a means of ensuring a \"high quality\" outcome. While some argue that this is an exercise in the professional judgment of such workers, others call this featherbedding and point to the low level of evidence that such rules improve outcomes.\n\nIn Brazil, featherbedding is considered endemic in government-owned and private-sector industries. Some analysts argue that featherbedding is a reaction to economic insecurity, and helps stabilize the national economy by spreading wealth.\n\nIn France, featherbedding was encouraged by the nationalized rail transportation system after World War Two with a view to keeping down the unemployment rate. This was in addition to railway express rates being kept very low. The railroad ran at a huge deficit as a result.\n\nIn post-war Japan, featherbedding is uncommon. A post-war consensus emerged among labor unions that featherbedding was not in the best interest of workers, and unions in Japan have tended to avoid the practice. A heavy government emphasis on full employment and a strong social safety net helped reinforce this consensus.\n\nThere are no national, regional, or local statutes or regulations governing labor unions in Sweden. Sweden has no national bureau or agency overseeing or regulating labor relations, and no agency monitors or regulates internal trade union matters. Nevertheless, despite relatively close relationships between employers and unions, featherbedding is almost unknown in Sweden.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, featherbedding is also referred to as \"overmanning\".\n\nIn the U.S., the Taft-Hartley Act defines and outlaws featherbedding. However, as previously noted, the U.S. Supreme Court has narrowly defined featherbedding, leaving most practices undisturbed.\n"}
{"id": "28187137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28187137", "title": "Frank Dolphin", "text": "Frank Dolphin\n\nFrank Dolphin is an Irish businessman. He is known for his involvement with the Irish Health Service, as a former chairman of Children's University Hospital, Temple Street and Governor of the Mater Hospital, as a past President of the Waterford Chamber of Commerce, and for founding RigneyDolphin Ltd..\n\nFrank Dolphin was born in Birr, County Offaly and attended Presentation College in Birr.\n\nHe subsequently attended University College Dublin, where he obtained a PhD in Psychology. His early research on information models in speech fluency was recognised by the British Psychological Society when he was awarded their Young Psychologist of the year award for his post graduate research.\n\nHe lectured at Trinity College Dublin (covering the topics of Psychology and Consumer Behaviour) while working on his PhD at Temple Street. After obtaining his PhD he moved to Waterford and set up the department of Psychology at the Waterford Institute of Technology (then Regional Technical College) and was responsible for introducing counselling and medical services there. He also worked as a consulting psychologist for St Joseph's Industrial School, Clonmel.\n\nHe currently sits on the board of Governors of WIT.\n\nIn 1990 Dolphin left the WIT and founded RigneyDolphin Ltd.. He remains chairman of the firm. The firm initially offered a range of recruitment, HR and consultancy services but in recent years have focused on business support services.\n\nThe company have a wide range of national and international blue chip clients.\n\nRigneyDolphin currently employs 1,200 staff at offices in Dublin, Dundalk, Derry and Waterford.\n\nRigneyDolphin's annual turnover in 2006 was €20.2 million.\n\nIn 2007 a new RigneyDolphin call center was opened in Waterford by the then Minister for Enterprise, Trade and Employment Micheál Martin. It cost €5 million and can accommodate 400 people.\n\nIn 2009 RigneyDolphin were recognised by Deloitte as one of Ireland's \"25 Best Managed Companies\". In 2010 they upheld this award.\n\nIn December 2010 RigneyDolphin opened a 300 seat call centre in Derry. The company received £1.2m from Invest Northern Ireland to fund the new centre. The new call centre, and its potential for employment, received praise from Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment minister Arlene Foster and Martina Anderson of Sinn Féin.\n\nIn February 2012 Taoiseach Enda Kenny announced that RigneyDolphin would provide patient management, patient outreach and telephone services to the Cleveland Clinic.\n\nIn 2009 Dolphin was appointed chairman of Children's University Hospital, Temple Street.\n\nIn July 2010 the Minister for Health and Children Mary Harney announced that Dolphin would assume the role of Chairman of the Health Service Executive with effect from 15 August 2010. Dolphin stepped down from this role in December 2011.\n\nIn March 2012 Dolphin was chosen to lead the review group for the construction of a new children's hospital, following the refusal by An Bord Pleanála to give planning permission for the proposed Children's Hospital of Ireland at a site on Eccles Street. Enda Kenny stated that the report this group put forward (the \"Dolphin Report\") would be the only one used to decide on the location of the proposed hospital. The Dolphin Report did not rank locations, but left the final decision to the cabinet; in the end, St. James's Hospital was chosen as the site for the new children's hospital, with a €500m budget being allocated to the project. \n\nDolphin was President of the Waterford Chamber of Commerce in '05/'06. While President he presented a paper to the World Chambers Federation's 4th World Chamber Congress in Durban on \"Training Solutions\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37241295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37241295", "title": "Fred Bremner", "text": "Fred Bremner\n\nFred Bremner (1863–1941) was a Scottish photographer. His portraiture work in British India, spanning 1882 to 1922, preserves a record of life in the period.\n\nBremner was born in 1863 in Aberchirder (also known as Foggylone) in Scotland and was one of several sons of a photographer in Banff. He left school at the age of thirteen to join his father's studio and worked there for six years. In 1882, Bremner accepted an offer of work from his brother-in-law G. W. Lawrie, who ran a successful photography business in Lucknow, and he was assigned work throughout northern India (modern India and Pakistan).\n\nIn 1889, Bremner established his own photographic studio in Karachi, and successively studios in Quetta, Lahore and Rawalpindi. He travelled great distances to rarely photographed areas, and his work therefore captures a scarce record of rural life, landscapes and people in late 19th and early 20th century India (his work spans 1882 to 1922).\n\nOf particular interest to military historians are Bremner's photographic studies of British and Indian Army units on station in the North West Frontier region of India (now Pakistan) during the late 1800s. These studies are distinguished by the quality of the plates, which preserve in detail the faces, equipment, uniforms and living conditions of a battalion of the line from this period. Photographed on location with the troops and then sold to order, these books are now extremely rare with very few copies available for public viewing. In particular, the exceptionally rare fine photographic (Collotype Prints) work of the 1st Battalion Wessex Regiment (Late 44th FOOT), Quetta Baluchistan, 1911.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12425890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12425890", "title": "Gideon Rose", "text": "Gideon Rose\n\nGideon Rose is the editor of \"Foreign Affairs\", and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He served as Associate Director for Near East and South Asian Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council from 1994 to 1995 under the Clinton Administration.\n\nRose was born to a Jewish family, the son of Joanna (née Semel) and Daniel Rose. He attended the Horace Mann School. In 1985 he earned a B.A. in Classics from Yale University, where he was a member of Scroll and Key. He received his Ph.D. in government from Harvard University in 1994.\n\nIn 1985 Rose was appointed assistant editor of \"The National Interest\", a foreign policy quarterly. He then went on to hold a similar position at a domestic quarterly called \"The Public Interest\". He served as Associate Director for Near East and South Asian Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council from 1994 to 1995 under the Clinton Administration.\n\nIn 1996 he joined Princeton University's Politics Department as a lecturer on American foreign policy, before holding a similar position at the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) at Columbia University.\n\nRose was an Olin Senior Fellow and the Deputy Director of National Security Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations from 1995 to 2000, before he was appointed managing editor of \"Foreign Affairs \"to replace Fareed Zakaria. On June 3, 2010, it was announced that Rose would be succeeding James F. Hoge, Jr. as the editor of \"Foreign Affairs\". He assumed the position on October 1, 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7805453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7805453", "title": "Gunvor Engström", "text": "Gunvor Engström\n\nGunvor Engström, born December 29, 1950 in Betul, India, is Swedish business personality and civil servant. She led \"Företagarna\", a Swedish association of primarily small- and medium-sized businesses and employers, between June, 2002 and December, 2006. She was appointed County Governor of Blekinge County from 1 September 2008 by the Swedish government, for a period of six years, but resigned in 2011.\n\nEngström has a various background with experiences of companies in private and in public.\n\nShe has worked nine years in the Swedish Government Offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "15399121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15399121", "title": "Heads of terms", "text": "Heads of terms\n\nA set of heads of agreement, heads of terms or letter of intent is a non-binding document outlining the main issues relevant to a tentative (partnership or other) agreement. A heads of agreement document will only be enforceable when it is adopted into a parent contract and subsequently agreed upon, unless otherwise stated. Until that point, a heads of agreement will not be legally binding (See \"Fletcher Challenge Energy Ltd v Electricity Corp of New Zealand Ltd\" [2002] 2 NZLR 433).\n\nHowever, such documents can be legally binding if the agreement document contains terms or language that expressly indicates the binding intention. Equally, a letter which contains no express indication of whether its terms were intended to be binding, can be found to be binding due to language used. (See \"RTS Flexible Systems Ltd v Molkerei Alois Müller GmbH & Co KG\" [2008]) This is also dependant on the circumstances of the transaction and includes the conduct of the parties themselves.\n\nIn a commercial property transaction in the UK, a heads of agreement is often known as the heads of terms (HOTS). The main purpose of the heads of terms is to identify and highlight the requirements of both the seller and the purchaser of the property. There are a number of advantages of using the heads of terms. For instance, by carrying this out, both parties will fully understand what they are subject to, and reduce or abolish any misunderstandings from either party. The heads of terms normally contains the following information:\n\n"}
{"id": "43066498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43066498", "title": "Henri van Abbe", "text": "Henri van Abbe\n\nHenri Jacob van Abbe (; 8 January 1880 – 18 November 1940) was a Dutch tobacco industrialist and art collector. He is the founder of the Van Abbemuseum in Eindhoven.\n\nHenri Jacob van Abbe was born on 8 January 1880 in Amsterdam in the Netherlands.\n\nHe was a cigar manufacturer in Eindhoven, and in 1900 he started a small cigar factory in Amsterdam which grew into a prosperous business. An avid art collector and lover of art, he founded the Van Abbemuseum in Eindhoven in 1936, which he gave a major donation to.\n\nWith Tinus van Bakel, a colleague in tobacco and art, he regularly traveled to Belgium in the 1930s to buy art. One of the places they visited (in 1936) was the artists' colony of Sint-Martens-Latem.\n\nVan Abbe died on 18 November 1940 in Eindhoven.\n\n"}
{"id": "57277650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57277650", "title": "Industrial history of Monterrey", "text": "Industrial history of Monterrey\n\nMonterrey is one of the most important and wealthiest cities in Mexico. Being the third largest metropolitan area in Mexico, Monterrey serves as a commercial center of the north of the country. Its huge commercial centers and industries are consequences of its big industrialization after the end of the Second French Intervention War (1861 – 1867). Before this event happened, Monterrey served as a distribution center of imported goods to the north of the country. \n\nThe industrial and economic development of the state came in several phases, starting at the end of the Second French Intervention, followed by the development of the industry in the state, and the boom of industrialization before the Mexican Revolution. These three phases dictated the industrial path of Monterrey, each one of them having its own consequences in this process.\n\nDuring the year of 1867, several important changes initiated in the city of Monterrey starting its industrialization: the falling of the commerce in the city, the development of communications, the development of agriculture, development of new industries, and other several changes. Monterrey changed from a distribution center of imported goods to an industrial state in a period of two decades.\n\nMonterrey’s economy started to develop when, in 1820, the Refugio port, in Matamoros, was opened. Following this port, the port of Tampico, in 1823, was opened for the city. Both of these ports where important for the economy of the city, thanks to its geographical situation. Monterrey was the only natural path to the center of the country between the mountain range system Sierra Madre Occidental. Due to this, Monterrey was the center of distribution for the states in the north of Mexico: Coahuila, Zacatecas, Durango, Chihuahua, etc.\nAnother important event for the development of the economy in Monterrey was the American Civil War. During the civil war, the ports of United States were blocked, causing the use of the ports of the north part of Mexico for the distribution of cotton to Europe. These ports where controlled by the Monterrey’s customs, allowing an important capital flow into the city. Even though this brought positive consequences in Monterrey’s economy, after the end of the American Civil War, the traffic from the United Stated stopped, affecting the city’s commerce.\n\nThe early development of the city economy was caused by several abnormal events. For example, constant revolutions in the country, establishment of the free zone in the neighbor state Tamaulipas, and the American Civil War. These abnormal events created a constant development on Monterrey’s economy. After these events stopped, an inevitable decrease in the city’s economy started. Some researches stated that the city could not get again in the same position that was during the city economy development, because it was caused by the abnormal events mentioned before. Despite of this, there exist other two main reasons why the commerce in Monterrey started to decrease: the creation of the “Constraresguardos” and the development of railways in the country.\n\nOne of the reasons was the creation of the mobile force “Contraresguardo”. This was a mobile force that was in charge of traveling along far paths and roads to stop clandestine imports. Smuggling was an important economic activity in many towns of Monterrey bringing capital flow into several commerce. The creation of this anti-smuggling force caused the decrease of the activity, affecting the economy of many families and commerce in Monterrey. The anti-smuggling forces raised important amounts of money from the smugglings that were stopped: during the year 1869-1870 where stopped several contrabands with a value of $213,415 pesos, in the next year this value increased by $844,542, and during the years 1874-1875 a total of 148 contraband were stopped by these forces. \n\nAnother important factor for the decrease in commerce in Monterrey was the development of railways in the country. Before this development, Monterrey served as a distribution center for the north states of the country, thanks to its geographical position. The development of railways caused that the north states of the country could get products from other routes, without the intervention of Monterrey. Also, the railways created contrabands in small scale, people where allowed to go to the frontier easily and in a cheap way, smuggling products. The small-scale contraband affected all kind of commerce in Monterrey, didn’t letting them develop. \n\nAn important factor in Monterrey’s industrialization was the development of communications throughout the state. The development of railways, telegraphs, telephones and trams started a new chapter in Monterrey’s transportation and communication era, leaving behind the mule drivers, drivers, and diligence drivers.\n\nBefore this new era, the opening of routes was an important topic for the government. Monterrey had several routes that connected it with other neighbor states like Matamoros, Laredo, Tampico, Piedras Negras, Saltillo, etc. These routes where controlled and managed by the municipalities, who didn’t take care of them, leaving them in bad shape. Even though, the traffic between this dirt routes were high. The most common mean of transport to transport products, before the development of railways, was by convoys: groups of wagons pulled by mules. Also, the most common way of transporting people between states before the railway, was by the use of errands. \n\nThe first railway track was inaugurated in 1881, it connected the cities of Monterrey and Matamoros. Other railways were also created to connect Monterrey to other cities in this new mean of transport: Laredo, Saltillo, Lampazos, Salinas Victoria, Cadereyta, Torreon, San Luis Potosi, Mexico, and also with the United States. These new routes of railway boost the movement of large group of people around the state and country in a cheap and effective way. These new railways also helped to present the city of Monterrey in a national and international context. People from outside the city came, especially from the United States, for vacations or business trips.\n\nThe telegraph was the one of the first communication development in the city, before the railways. The first line of telegraph was built 12 years before the first railway track in the city. The telegraph created a communication line between Monterrey and the center of Mexico. Also, the cities of Matamoros, Saltillo, San Luis Potosi, Ciudad Victoria, Nuevo Laredo, etc. These new lines of telegraph communications followed almost the same lines as the routes of railways.\n\nOne of the first urban transportation mean was the trams. The first tram was built in 1882 by the government of the state. Later, permissions to build more tram routes around the city were delivered to private companies. By the year of 1891, most of the trams lines were managed by four private companies who had a total of 40 kilometers of tram lines, 58 wagons and 17 loading platforms. All of these track lines connected the urban and rural zones of Monterrey.\n\nIn 1882, the telephone was installed in the city of Monterrey. The purpose of the first line of telephones was for the use of the government, connecting the house of General Treviño with the headquarters in the city. The use of telephones for public purposes was established in 1883. By the next year, it already had 91 subscriptions, 256 telephone devices, and 300 kilometers of telephone line. \n\nBefore the industrialization of Monterrey, agriculture and cattle raising were the most important economic activities of the city. Monterrey was an exporting city, exporting to the rest of the country corn and sugar cane. Even though corn was the most agricultural product produced in the city, sugar can was the most profitable. Piloncillo was a very profitable product and it was extracted from the sugar cane. Monterrey was one of the most important cities that exported this product to the country. Also, cattle raising was an important activity for the city, but throughout the years, it was being substituted by the agriculture. This decrease in cattle production was also caused by other factor besides the growing agricultural activity in the city. It was caused also by the cattle theft, attacks of barbarian Indians to the farms, revolutions through the state and droughts. In the year of 1890, the rural activities of the city were in development, having an increase in agricultural and cattle raising production.\n\nBefore the fall of commerce in Monterrey, huge amount of capital flowed into the city. This gave a lot of economic resources to families and business men of the region. After the fall of commerce in the city, this families and business men started to look for new industries in which they could invest their resources. The industries that were developed by these investments where in the areas of mining, railways and customs, textiles, and livestock companies. After these investments, the industrialization of Monterrey was initiated.\n\nThe textile industry was one of the first industries developed in Monterrey. The first textile companies were called “La Fama”, which was founded in 1854 by an investment group, and “El Porvenir”, founded in 1871. After this two companies were founded, more little textile industries were created in the region, causing that the textile industry was an important activity for the city of Monterrey after several years. \n\nOther new industries that were founded in Monterrey during the same period were little workshops and handcrafts. The main objective of the workshops was to create tools for agricultural purposes, creating wheat mills, floats, and other agricultural tools. Other new industries developed were hat, ice, floats and cars, sugar and mezcal, beer, pasta, starch, candles production. These small industries became the beginning of the industrialization of Monterrey.\n\nAll these new industries that were developed started to change the way of thinking of the government, businesses and people in Monterrey. The idea that the industrialization of the city was the solution for the future of the state was starting to appear. The government and business started to foment the industrialization in all the aspects of the economy. An important tool to expand this ideas through the state and to present Monterrey’s product to the country and internationally was by the use of expositions. In these expositions, products were presented din four different categories: industry, labor, mechanical arts and arts. All these expositions helped the community to get to know all the products that where produce in Monterrey and the innovations on them. The products of Monterrey reached exposition in United States like the exposition of New Orleans in 1885, Paris in 1889 and San Antonio in 1889. These expositions were an important platform for the world to get to know Monterrey as an industrial center.\n\nIn 1889, the first important industries for the industrialization were founded: Fabrica de Cerveza y Hielo de Monterrey and Fundicion de Fierro y Elaboracion de Maquinaria Monterrey. The first industry was in beer production and the second was in melting industry. The foundation of these two industries in Monterrey, caused a wave of concessions for the foundation of new industries in the city. Many industries were founded in the next several years, covering diverse areas of industries: furniture, metal, clothe, cigarettes, soap, among others. In a period of 3 years, 14 new industries were founded in Monterrey.\n\nThis boom in the industrialization of Monterrey was caused by internal and external factors of the city. The internal factors are the ones that involves the own citizens and business of Monterrey. In the other hand, the external factor are the ones that involves everything that influenced Monterrey from the outside of its borders. These factors had an important role in the development of the industry in Monterrey.\n\nOne of the external factors was the high tariffs of the United State government high sales rates on metals. These high rates caused that metal industries were founded in Monterrey, avoiding these high costs. Monterrey had an advantage over other cities that also were affected by these high rates in United States, it was connected with several important mining centers of the country, reducing the cost of transporting the coal needed for the mining industry.\n\nAnother important external factor in Monterrey’s industrialization was the international investment in the city. Most of the businessman or companies that invested in new industries in the city were from outside of Mexico. The brought important amounts of capital into the city, leading them into a favorable position to its citizens and government for future development.\n\nOne important factor was the government position towards the foundation of new industries in the city. The government in Monterrey reduced taxes and borrow land to business or persons who wanted to create new industries in the city, creating a friendly environment to entrepreneurs. This environment could not be performed without the important amounts of capital that were created during the early stages of commerce in the city. The huge amount of economic resources that some citizens and business in Monterrey had available for investments were a key factor on the industrialization. Also, another important factor in this phase, was the huge amount of skilled craftsmen. These craftsmen were important to the industries, who contract them because they knew how to use machines and work in the production of products. \n\nOne important factor was Monterrey’s geographical position towards United States. Monterrey is the nearest important city of Mexico to the frontier and industrial area of United States. This closeness also let Monterrey’s citizens to go to the United States to study or work in the neighbor country, bringing new ideas and process to the industrial sector of Monterrey.\n\nMonterrey’s industrialization continued another 20 years and stopped during the Mexican Revolution. During these 20 years, the industries in the city continued to develop and to grow. The most important and more developed industries during this interval of time were: \n\nThis industrialization raised again the commerce in the city, creating new commerce and investments in Monterrey, causing a increment in the capital flow to the city and its businesses. The population in Monterrey also increased thanks to its industrialization and commerce attraction, catching the attention of businessmen and families from other states. This industrialization brought more development in Monterrey urbanization, lifestyle and education, beneficiating its citizens, industries and commerce.\n\n"}
{"id": "3172176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3172176", "title": "International business", "text": "International business\n\nInternational business refers to the trade of goods, services, technology, capital and/or knowledge across national borders and at a global level. \n\nIt involves cross-border transactions of goods and services between two or more countries. Transactions of economic resources include capital, skills, and people for the purpose of the international production of physical goods and services such as finance, banking, insurance, and construction. International business is also known as globalization.\n\nTo conduct business overseas, multinational companies need to bridge separate national markets into one global marketplace. There are two macro-scale factors that underline the trend of greater globalization. The first consists of eliminating barriers to make cross-border trade easier (e.g. free flow of goods and services, and capital, referred to as \"free trade\"). The second is technological change, particularly developments in communication, information processing, and transportation technologies.\n\n\"International business\" is also defined as the study of the internationalization process of multinational enterprises. A multinational enterprise (MNE) is a company that has a worldwide approach to markets, production and/or operations in several countries. Well-known MNEs include fast-food companies such as: McDonald's (MCD), YUM (YUM), Starbucks Coffee Company (SBUX), Microsoft (MSFT), etc. Other industrial MNEs leaders include vehicle manufacturers such as: Ford Motor Company, and General Motors (GMC). Some consumer electronics producers such as Samsung, LG and Sony, and energy companies such as Exxon Mobil, and British Petroleum (BP) are also multinational enterprises. \n\nMultinational enterprises range from any kind of business activity or market, from consumer goods to machinery manufacture; a company can become an international business. Therefore, to conduct business overseas, companies should be aware of all the factors that might affect any business activities, including, but not limited to: difference in legal systems, political systems, economic policy, language, accounting standards, labor standards, living standards, environmental standards, local cultures, corporate cultures, foreign-exchange markets, tariffs, import and export regulations, trade agreements, climate, and education. Each of these factors may require changes in how companies operate from one country to another. Each factor makes a difference and a connection.\n\nOne of the first scholars to engage in developing a theory of multinational companies was Canadian economist Stephen Hymer. Throughout his academic life, he developed theories that sought to explain foreign direct investment (FDI) and why firms become multinational.\n\nThere were three phases of internationalization according to Hymer's work. The first phase of Hymer's work was his dissertation in 1960 called the \"International Operations of National Firms\". In this thesis, the author departs from neoclassical theory and opens up a new area of international production. At first, Hymer started analyzing neoclassical theory and financial investment, where the main reason for capital movement is the difference in interest rates. After this analysis, Hymer analyzed the characteristics of foreign investment by large companies for production and direct business purposes, calling this Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). By analyzing the two types of investments, Hymer distinguished financial investment from direct investment. The main distinguishing feature was control. Portfolio investment is a more passive approach, and the main purpose is financial gain, whereas in foreign direct investment a firm has control over the operations abroad. So, the traditional theory of investment based on differential interest rates does not explain the motivations for FDI.\n\nAccording to Hymer, there are two main determinants of FDI; where an imperfect market structure is the key element. The first is the firm-specific advantages which are developed at the specific companies home country and, profitably, used in the foreign country. The second determinant is the removal of control where Hymer wrote: \"When firms are interconnected, they compete in selling in the same market or one of the firms may sell to the other,\" and because of this \"it may be profitable to substitute centralized decision-making for decentralized decision-making\".\n\nHymer's second phase is his neoclassical article in 1968 that includes a theory of internationalization and explains the direction of growth of the international expansion of firms. In a later stage, Hymer went to a more Marxist approach where he explains that MNC as agents of an international capitalist system causing conflict and contradictions, causing among other things inequality and poverty in the world. Hymer is the \"father of the theory of MNEs\", and explains the motivations for companies doing direct business abroad.\n\nAmong modern economic theories of multinationals and foreign direct investment are internalization theory and John Dunning's OLI paradigm (standing for \"ownership, location and internationalization\"). Dunning was widely known for his research in economics of international direct investment and the multinational enterprise. His OLI paradigm, in particular, remains as the predominant theoretical contribution to study international business topics. Hymer and Dunning are considered founders of international business as a specialist field of study.\n\nThe conduct of international operations depends on a company's objectives and the means with which they carry them out. The operations affect and are affected by the physical and societal factors and the competitive environment.\n\nAll firms that want to go international have one goal in common; the desire to increase their respective economic values when engaging in international trade transactions. To accomplish this goal, each firm must develop its individual strategy and approach to maximize value, lower costs, and increase profits. A firm's value creation is the difference between (the value of the product being sold) and (the cost of production per each product sold).\n\nValue creation can be categorized as: \"primary activities\" (research and development, production, marketing and sales, customer service) and as \"support activities\" (information systems, logistics, human resources). All of these activities must be managed effectively and be consistent with the firm strategy. However, the success of firms that extend internationally depends on the goods or services sold and on the firm's core competencies (Skills within the firm that competitors cannot easily match or imitate). For a firm to be successful, the firm's strategy must be consistent with the environment in which the firm operates. Therefore, the firm needs to change its organizational structure to reflect changes in the setting in which they are operating and the strategy they are pursuing.\n\nOnce a firm decides to enter a foreign market, it must decide on a mode of entry. There are six different modes to enter a foreign market, and each mode has pros and cons that are associated with it. The firm must decide which mode is most appropriately aligned with the company's goals and objectives. The six different modes of entry are exporting, turnkey projects, licensing, franchising, establishing joint ventures with a host-country firm, or setting up a new wholly owned subsidiary in the host country.\n\nThe first entry mode is exporting. Exporting is the sale of a product in a different national market than a centralized hub of manufacturing. In this way, a firm may realize a substantial scale of economies from its global sales revenue. As an example, many Japanese automakers made inroads into the U.S. market through exporting. There are two primary advantages to exporting: avoiding high costs of establishing manufacturing in a host country (when these are higher) and gaining an experience curve. Some possible disadvantages to exporting are high transport costs and high tariff barriers.\n\nThe second entry mode is a turnkey project. In a turnkey project, an independent contractor is hired by the company to oversee all of the preparation for entering a foreign market. Once the preparation is complete and the end of the contract is reached, the plant is turned over to the company fully ready for operation.\n\nLicensing and franchising are two additional entry modes that are similar in operation. Licensing allows a licensor to grant the rights to an intangible property to the licensee for a specified period of time for a royalty fee. Franchising, on the other hand, is a specialized form of licensing in which the \"franchisor\" sells the intangible property to the franchisee, and also requires the franchisee operate as dictated by the franchisor.\n\nLastly, a joint venture and wholly owned subsidiary are two more entry modes in international business. A \"joint venture\" is when a firm created is jointly owned by two or more companies (Most joint venture are 50-50 partnerships). This is in contrast with a wholly owned subsidiary, when a firm owns 100 percent of the stock of a company in a foreign country because it has either set up a new operation or acquires an established firm in that country.\n\nExports and imports of merchandise: \n\nData is from the CIA World Factbook, compiled in 2017:\n\nStrategic variables affect the choice of entry mode for multinational corporation expansion beyond their domestic markets. These variables are global concentration, global synergies, and global strategic motivations of MNC.\n\n\n\n\nTo achieve success in penetrating a foreign market and remaining profitable, efforts must be directed towards the planning and execution of Phase I. The use of conventional SWOT analysis, market research, and cultural research, will give a firm appropriate tools to reduce risk of failure abroad. Risks that arise from poor planning include: large expenses in marketing, administration and product development (with no sales); disadvantages derived from local or federal laws of a foreign country, lack of popularity because of a saturated market, vandalism of physical property due to instability of country; etc. There are also cultural risks when entering a foreign market. Lack of research and understanding of local customs can lead to alienation of locals and brand dissociation. Strategic risks can be defined as the uncertainties and untapped opportunities embedded in your strategic intent and how well they are executed. As such, they are key matters for the board and impinge on the whole business, rather than just an isolated unit.\nA company has to be conscious about the production costs to not waste time and money. If the expenditures and costs are controlled, it will create an efficient production and help the internationalization. Operational risk is the prospect of loss resulting from inadequate or failed procedures, systems or policies; employee errors, systems failure, fraud or other criminal activity, or any event that disrupts business processes.\n\nHow a government governs a country (governance) can affect the operations of a firm. The government might be corrupt, hostile, or totalitarian; and may have a negative image around the globe. A firm's reputation can change if it operates in a country controlled by that type of government. Also, an unstable political situation can be a risk for multinational firms. Elections or any unexpected political event can change a country's situation and put a firm in an awkward position. Political risks are the likelihood that political forces will cause drastic changes in a country's business environment that hurt the profit and other goals of a business enterprise. Political risk tends to be greater in countries experiencing social unrest. When political risk is high, there is a high probability that a change will occur in the country's political environment that will endanger foreign firms there. Corrupt foreign governments may also take over the company without warning, as seen in Venezuela.\n\nTechnological improvements bring many benefits, but some disadvantages as well. Some of these risks include \"lack of security in electronic transactions, the cost of developing new technology ... the fact that this new technology may fail, and, when all of these are coupled with the outdated existing technology, [the fact that] the result may create a dangerous effect in doing business in the international arena.\"\n\nCompanies that establish a subsidiary or factory abroad need to be conscious about the externalizations they will produce, as some may have negative effects such as noise or pollution. This may cause aggravation to the people living there, which in turn can lead to a conflict. People want to live in a clean and quiet environment, without pollution or unnecessary noise. If a conflict arises, this may lead to a negative change in customer's perception of the company. Actual or potential threat of adverse effects on living organisms and environment by effluents, emissions, wastes, resource depletion, etc., arising out of an organization's activities is considered to be risks of the environment. As new business leaders come to fruition in their careers, it will be increasingly important to curb business activities and externalizations that may hurt the environment.\n\nThese are the economic risks explained by Professor Okolo: \"This comes from the inability of a country to meet its financial obligations. The changing of foreign-investment or/and domestic fiscal or monetary policies. The effect of exchange-rate and interest rate make it difficult to conduct international business.\" Moreover, it can be a risk for a company to operate in a country and they may experience an unexpected economic crisis after establishing the subsidiary. Economic risks is the likelihood that economic management will cause drastic changes in a country's business environment that hurt the profit and other goals of a business enterprise. In practice, the biggest problem arising from economic mismanagement has been inflation. Historically many governments have expanded their domestic money supplying misguided attempts to stimulate economic activity.\n\nAccording to Professor Okolo: \"This area is affected by the currency exchange rate, government flexibility in allowing the firms to repatriate profits or funds outside the country. The devaluation and inflation will also affect the firm's ability to operate at an efficient capacity and still be stable.\" Furthermore, the taxes that a company has to pay might be advantageous or not. It might be higher or lower in the host countries. Then \"the risk that a government will indiscriminately change the laws, regulations, or contracts governing an investment—or will fail to enforce them—in a way that reduces an investor's financial returns is what we call 'policy risk.'\"\n\nTerrorism is a voluntary act of violence towards a group(s) of people. In most cases, acts of terrorism is derived from hatred of religious, political and cultural beliefs. An example was the infamous 9/11 attacks, labeled as terrorism due to the massive damages inflicted on American society and the global economy stemming from the animosity towards Western culture by some radical Islamic groups. Terrorism not only affects civilians, but it also damages corporations and other businesses. These effects may include: physical vandalism or destruction of property, sales declining due to frightened consumers and governments issuing public safety restrictions. Firms engaging in international business will find it difficult to operate in a country that has an uncertain assurance of safety from these attacks.\n\nBribery is the act of receiving or soliciting of any items or services of value to influence the actions of a party with public or legal obligations. This is considered to an unethical form of practicing business and can have legal repercussions. Firm that want to operate legally should instruct employees to not involve themselves or the company in such activities. Companies should avoid doing business in countries where unstable forms of government exist as it could bring unfair advantages against domestic business and/or harm the social fabric of the citizens.\n\nThere has been growth in globalization in recent decades due to the following factors.\n\n\n\nManagers in international business must understand social science disciplines and how they affect different functional business fields.\n\nTo maintain and achieve successful business operations in foreign nations, persons must understand how variations in culture and traditions across nations affect business practices. This idea is known as cultural literacy. Without knowledge of a host country's culture, corporate strategizing is more difficult and error-prone when entering foreign markets compared with the home country's market and culture. This can create a \"blind spot\" during the decision making process and result in ethnocentrism. Education about international business introduces the student to new concepts that can be applicable in international strategy in topics such as marketing and operations.\n\nA considerable advantage in international business is gained through the knowledge and use of language, thereby mitigating a language barrier. Advantages of being an international businessperson who is fluent in the local language include the following:\n\nIn many cases, it plays a crucial role. It is truly impossible to gain an understanding of a culture's buying habits without first taking the time to understand the culture. Examples of the benefit of understanding local culture include the following:\n\nThe international business standards focus on the following:\nBy focusing on these, students will gain a better understanding of Political economy. These are tools that would help future business people bridge the economic and political gap between countries.\n\nThere is an increasing amount of demand for business people with an education in international business. A survey conducted by Thomas Patrick from University of Notre Dame concluded that bachelor's degree and master's degree holders felt that the training received through education were very practical in the working environment. Increasingly, companies are sourcing their human resource requirement globally. For example, at Sony Corporation, only fifty percent of its employees are Japanese. Business people with an education in international business also had a significantly higher chance of being sent abroad to work under the international operations of a firm.\n\nThe following table provides descriptions of higher education in international business and its benefits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38560766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38560766", "title": "Javier Ferrán", "text": "Javier Ferrán\n\nFrancisco Javier Ferrán Larraz (born August 1956) is a Spanish businessman. He was president and chief executive officer (CEO) of Bacardi from 2003 to 2004.\n\nFerrán has been the chairman of Diageo since January 2017, when Franz Humer retired.\n\nFerrán was born in born August 1956. He graduated from the University of Barcelona and received a BA and MBA from ESADE, in Barcelona. He later earned an MA in Computer Information Systems from the University of Miami in 1984.\n\nFrom 1979 to 1984, he worked for Lloyds TSB, including two years as vice President of the Miami, Florida branch. He joined Martini & Rossi in 1985, where he later served as Managing Director. He joined Bacardi in the 1992, and served as regional president for Europe, Middle East and Africa from 1994. He served as president and CEO from March 2003 to November 2004.\n\nHe is a partner of the London-based private equity firm Lion Capital LLP since April 1, 2005. He also serves on the board of directors of Associated British Foods and Agrolimen.\n"}
{"id": "17976956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17976956", "title": "Jens Gasmann", "text": "Jens Gasmann\n\nJens Severin Gasmann (1776 – 7 May 1850) was a Norwegian businessperson and politician.\nHe was born in 1776 in Gjerpen as the son of attorney Niels Egidius Gasmann (1747–1811) and his wife Kirstine Schweder (1757–1785) of the wealthy Zachariassen Wesseltoft family.\n\nJens Gasmann married Bodil Zachariassen Wesseltoft (1779–1848) in 1800. The couple had two daughters and two sons. Their youngest son Niels Egidius Møller became a merchant in Christiania, and married Simonine Møller, sister of parliament member Hans Eleonardus Møller and aunt of Hans Møller.\n\nJens Gasmann began his career at sea at a young age, and became a shipmaster in 1798, sailing a period for ship-owner Jørgen Aall. He took part in the Gunboat War, between Denmark-Norway and Great Britain, as secretary of admiral Fisker. In 1812 Jens Gasmann acquired burghership and settled on the mainland. He bought various real estate, but had to face a fire in 1824. However, he coped through this, raised a new building and later set up a distillery there. From 1818 he was also vice consul for Great Britain, the country he had helped waging war against only eight years earlier. He was later promoted to consul.\n\nAs a politician he served as a deputy representative in the Norwegian Parliament in 1824, representing the constituency of \"Skien og Porsgrund\". In 1837, when local governance was introduced in Norway, Gasmann became the first deputy mayor of Porsgrund municipality. Jørgen Flood was mayor, following a \"mutual agreement\" between the council members. Gasmann served as deputy mayor again in 1838, before becoming mayor in 1839 and 1840 with Flood as deputy mayor. Gasmann left local politics on 31 December 1840.\n\nFrom the 1820s Gasmann worked as a trade inspector and later harbor master.\n\nAfter his death, an auction were held on his property. It was bought by later mayor Simon Karenius Høegh.\n"}
{"id": "53774271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53774271", "title": "Lars Erik Lundberg", "text": "Lars Erik Lundberg\n\nLars Erik Lundberg (4 July 1920 - 2001) was a Swedish businessman, the founder of L E Lundbergföretagen.\n\nLars Erik Lundberg was born on 4 July 1920 in Norrköping. He received a bachelor's degree in civil engineering from the Stockholm Technical Institute.\n\nIn 1944, Lundberg founded L E Lundbergföretagen in Norrköping, as a construction company, building residential property, but diversified into other areas over time.\n\nHe died in 2001.\n\nThe company is now controlled by his son Fredrik Lundberg, and daughters Louise Lindh and Katarina Martinson, all billionaires.\n"}
{"id": "10968884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10968884", "title": "Lee Loy Seng", "text": "Lee Loy Seng\n\nTan Sri Dato' Seri Lee Loy Seng (; 22 August 1921 – 22 November 1993) was a Malaysian businessman who grew up in a small town, Ipoh.\n\nHis father, Lee Meng Hin, was a tin-miner who gave the then Malayan economy a boost. After Lee Meng Hin's reign, his company was passed on to one of his sons, Lee Wan Seng, and the younger Loy Seng worked just as an employee during the early years of his life.\nDuring the Malayan Emergency, many british firms and trading houses sold off their assets, including rubber plantations at very low prices. Loy Seng saw the opportunity of a lifetime to invest in these lands, subsequently turning them into rubber plantations. With luck on his side, the price of rubber was increasing immensely due to industrial rise. As he built up his fast blossoming business, Mr. Lee founded the company Kuala Lumpur Kepong Berhad, which became and still is one of the leading plantation owning companies in Malaysia.\n\nMr Lee was a member of Malaysian Chinese Association(MCA), president of Ipoh Municipal Council in 1976, and a senator from 1971 to 1980. From 1978 to 1992, he was the president of Perak Chinese Maternity Hospital (a private non-profit hospital that gives free treatment to the poor). He was the chairman of Multi-Purpose Holdings ran into financial difficulties in the mid-1980s, he was invited by MCA to return as a director on a board of prominent Chinese businessmen, headed by \"Suger King\" Tan Sri Sir Robert Kuok, to restore it back to health. He was well known for his philanthropy, and established the Lee Loy Seng Foundation to provide scholarships for needy Malaysian students to pursue their tertiary education. He was also the benefactor of the Lucky Village Old Folks Home in Ipoh.\n\nMr Lee was awarded the titles of Dato' Seri in 1974, and Tan Sri in 1987.\n\nHis sons Tan Sri Datuk Lee Oi Hian, Datuk Lee Hau Hian and Datuk Lee Soon Hian are considered to be in the top 20 richest people in Malaysia. Lee Oi Hian and Lee Hau Hian jointly have an estimated net worth of US$1.5bil in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "44303487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44303487", "title": "Licensed Professional Counselor Associate", "text": "Licensed Professional Counselor Associate\n\nA Licensed Professional Counselor Associate (LPCA) is a provisionally licensed professional counselor who has completed a master’s level counseling program, passed necessary national examinations, and is currently working toward full licensure by completing a designated amount of supervised clinical counseling hours. Other common titles for this provisional license are Licensed Associate Counselor (LAC), Licensed Associate Professional Counselor (LAPC), Limited License Professional Counselor (LLPC), and Licensed Professional Counselor – Intern (LPC-I). Titles vary by state.\n\nSeveral states in the US have implemented a tiered licensure system for professional counselors. These systems are either two or three tiers and provide both professional development and mentorship for new counselors, as well as added assurance for clients that they are receiving the best care possible. In two-tier systems, an LPCA is licensed to practice under the supervision of a fully licensed professional counselor (LPC) with a sufficient amount of post-graduate counseling experience. Once the LPCA has accrued the required number of hours (usually accomplished in about two years, depending on state regulations), they may apply to be an LPC and practice independently.\nIn a three-tier system, in addition to an LPCA and LPC, there is a separate level of licensure for supervisors (Licensed Professional Counselor Supervisor (LPCS), or equivalent title) that requires additional coursework, training, and years of experience. In this type of system, only an LPCS may supervise an LPCA.\n\nFor all programs accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP), clinical mental health concentrations beginning after July 1, 2013 must require a minimum of 60 credit hours. These 60 credit hours must include a core curriculum of 8 classes: Professional Identity, Social and Cultural Diversity, Human Growth and Development, Career Development, Helping Relationships, Group Work, Assessment, and Research and Program Evaluation. There are additional elective requirements based on one’s specialty or concentration. CACREP also has strict requirements regarding faculty qualifications, faculty student ratios, learning environment, evaluation and administration practices, and ethical standards, among other things. \nIn addition to academic course work, CACREP requires 100 hours of practicum experience (including 40 direct client hours) as well as 600 hours of internship experience (including at least 240 direct client hours).\n\nThe most commonly required licensure exams to become a licensed professional counselor associate are the National Counselor Exam (NCE) or National Clinical Mental Health Counselor Exam (NCMHCE), though requirements vary from state to state.\n\n"}
{"id": "44993825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44993825", "title": "Lu Zhiqiang", "text": "Lu Zhiqiang\n\nLu Zhiqiang (born 1952) is a Chinese businessman, chairman of Oceanwide Holdings, a Chinese property company.\n\nLu Zhiqiang was born in 1952. He has an MA degree from Fudan University.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", Lu Zhiqiang has a net worth of $5.2 billion, as of August 2015.\n\nHe is married, and lives in Beijing.\n"}
{"id": "1540847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1540847", "title": "Marvin Bower", "text": "Marvin Bower\n\nMarvin Bower (August 1, 1903 – January 22, 2003) was an American business theorist and management consultant.\n\nBower was the son of the deputy recorder at Cuyahoga County, and grew up in the Collinwood neighborhood of Cleveland, Ohio and attended Glenville High School. He earned his bachelor's degree in Economics and Psychology from Brown University in 1925. His father advised him to study law, and Bower graduated from Harvard Law School in 1928. Bower then attended Harvard Business School, graduating in 1930. Following completion of his studies, Bower worked as an associate at Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue in Cleveland.\n\nIn 1933, Bower was hired by James O. McKinsey in the new Chicago firm of James O. McKinsey & Company to manage a newly acquired branch in New York. Following McKinsey's death in 1937, the two offices split up and Bower resurrected the New York firm, with the assistance of New York partners, as McKinsey & Company in 1939. He served as managing director from 1950 to 1967, and remained a leadership figure at McKinsey as director and partner until 1992.\n\nAccording to the Harvard Business School, Bower \"is considered the father of modern management consulting.\" His principled insistence on impeccable professional standards in substance, ethics, and style; his dedication to the professional development of his colleagues; and his candor, all served as a role model for several generations of management consultants, both within and outside McKinsey.\n\nBower performed one act in the history of McKinsey & Company that permanently set him and McKinsey apart from its competitors. In an era when other consultants were taking themselves public or selling out to larger companies, he sold his own shares back to the firm at book value when he turned 60, which he could easily have done at some huge multiple of earnings.\n\nBower's decision came as a surprise to many, including his own family. \"Let me just say there was a shock on people's faces when he told us that he was selling his shares back to McKinsey at book value,\" said his son Dick Bower. \"It felt unbelievable, to tell you the truth. But that was Marvin for you.\"\n\nHe published several books and articles, among them:\n\n"}
{"id": "6566528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6566528", "title": "Monopolization", "text": "Monopolization\n\nIn US antitrust law, monopolization is an illegal and the main categories of prohibited behavior include exclusive dealing, price discrimination, refusing to supply an essential facility, product tying and predatory pricing. Monopolization is an offense under Section 2 of the American Sherman Antitrust Act 1890. It has a specific legal meaning, which is parallel to the \"abuse\" of a dominant position in EU competition law, under TFEU article 102. The Sherman Act 1890 §2 states that any person \"who shall monopolize . . . any part of the trade or commerce among the several states, or with foreign nations shall be deemed guilty of a felony.\" Section 2 also forbids \"attempts to monopolize\" and \"conspiracies to monopolize\". Generally this means that corporations may not act in ways that have been identified as contrary to precedent cases.\n\nUnder long-established precedent, the offense of monopolization under Section 2 has two elements. First, that the defendant possesses monopoly power in a properly-defined market and second that the defendant obtained or maintained that power through conduct deemed unlawfully exclusionary. The mere fact that conduct disadvantages rivals does not, without more, constitute the sort of exclusionary conduct that satisfies this second element. Instead, such conduct must exclude rivals on some basis other than efficiency.\n\nFor several decades courts drew the line between efficient and inefficient exclusion by asking whether the conduct under scrutiny was \"competition on the merits\". Courts equated such competition on the merits with unilateral conduct such as product improvement, the realization of economies of scale, innovation, and the like. Such conduct was lawful per se, since it constituted the normal operation of economic forces that a free economy should encourage. At the same time, courts condemned as \"unlawful exclusion\" tying contracts, exclusive dealing, and other agreements that disadvantaged rivals. This distinction reflected the economic theory of the time, which saw no beneficial purposes for what Professor Oliver Williamson has called non-standard contracts.\n\nMore recently, courts have retained the safe harbor for \"competition on the merits\". Moreover, the Supreme Court has clarified the standards governing claims of predatory pricing. At the same time, they have relaxed the standards governing other conduct by monopolists. For instance, non-standard contracts that exclude rivals are now lawful if supported by a \"valid business reason\", unless the plaintiff can establish that the defendant could achieve the same benefits by means of a less restrictive alternative.\n\n"}
{"id": "47305095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47305095", "title": "Nightclub management software", "text": "Nightclub management software\n\nNightclub management software (NMS) or a nightclub management system is a compiled management information system produced solely for nightclubs, such as the Ministry Of Sound, and can also be modified for bars, festivals, pubs, and live events. These systems will commonly cover the needs of nightclubs in the form of CRM, bookings, ticketing, EPOS, and administration capabilities for running the venue. With the Nightclub industry in contraction during the period of recession during 2007-2009 many nightclubs are sourcing new avenues for marketing reach expansion.\n\nNightclub management software solutions typically cover a broad spectrum of aspects in running a venue such as:\n\nThe standard NMS forgoes the traditional software installation and instead relies on cloud computing storing all data on remote servers which allow for user access for an unlimited number of computers based anywhere within reach of an internet connection. Many NMS providers base the pricing structure from a software as a service/application service provider model.\n\nNightclubs use specific software to meet the complex requirements of their business. Typically small scale venues will manage their business with a generic accounting package and extend functionality with plugin's or other bolt-on software. The advantage for nightclubs running a specialized system are numerous, however the primary outcome is a more efficient venue. Nightclub Management software typically encompasses all the tools mentioned above however difficulty arises when nightclub staff are evaluating vendors and deciding what software to implement. Integration of these tools is key but venue principals and other key staff still need to pay attention to other factors such as cost.\n\n"}
{"id": "717180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=717180", "title": "North Sydney, New South Wales", "text": "North Sydney, New South Wales\n\nNorth Sydney is a suburb and major district on the Lower North Shore of Sydney, Australia. North Sydney is located 3 kilometres north of the Sydney central business district and is the administrative centre for the local government area of North Sydney Council.\n\nAborigines on the southern side of Port Jackson (Sydney Harbour) called the north side \"warung\" which meant \"the other side\", while those on the northern side used the same name to describe the southern side.\n\nThe first name used by European settlers was \"Hunterhill\", named after a property owned by Thomas Muir of Huntershill (1765–1799), a Scottish political reformer. He purchased land in 1794 near the location of north pylon of the Sydney Harbour Bridge is now located, and built a house which he named after his childhood home. This area north to Gore Hill became known as St Leonards. The township of St Leonards was laid out in 1836 in what is now North Sydney, bounded by what is now Miller, Walker, Lavender and Berry Streets. By 1846 there were 106 houses here and by 1859, the commercial centre had extended from Milsons Point to Miller Street. A bus service operated by Jeremiah Wall ran between Milsons Point and \"North Sydney Shops\", and North Sydney thus developed its own identity.\nThe North Sydney municipality was incorporated in 1890 and after naming disputes, \"North Sydney\" was settled upon. The post office which opened in 1854 as St Leonards was changed to North Sydney in 1890. The first public school which opened in 1874 as St Leonards was renamed North Sydney in 1910.\n\nNorth Sydney underwent a dramatic transformation into a commercial hub in 1971–72. In this period no less than 27 skyscrapers were built.\n\nThe history of the North Sydney tramway system can be divided into three periods – the first from the original opening in 1886 to 1909, when the McMahons Point line opened. The second period covers the time until the Wynyard line was opened across the Sydney Harbour Bridge in 1932, and the third until construction of the Cahill Expressway on the eastern side of Sydney Harbour Bridge and the wider closure of the system in 1962.\n\nThe first part of the North Sydney tramway system was a double-track cable tramway which commenced at the original Milsons Point Ferry wharf, located where the north pylon of the Harbour Bridge is now. The line originally extended via Alfred St (now Alfred Street South), Junction St (now Pacific Highway), Blue St and Miller Sts to the engine house and depot in Ridge St. It used cable grip cars called \"dummies\" and un-powered trailer cars.\n\nA feature of these lines was the underground tram terminus at Wynyard railway station (the only one in Australia), and the tracks over the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Trams ran from Blue St, North Sydney over a now-demolished steel arch bridge over the Harbour Bridge Roadway, then over the eastern side of the harbour bridge (now road lanes), through a tram platform at Milsons Point railway station, before descending underground into platforms 1 and 2 of Wynyard station.\n\nNorth Sydney has a number of heritage-listed sites, including those listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register:\n\nThe following buildings are heritage-listed on other heritage registers:\n\nThe commercial district of North Sydney includes the second largest concentration of office buildings in New South Wales, with a large representation from the advertising and information technology industries. Advertising, marketing businesses and associated trades such as printing have traditionally dominated the business life of the area though these have been supplanted to a certain extent by information technology businesses. Corporations whose offices are in North Sydney include, Cisco Systems, Vocus Communications, NBN Co, Novell, Sun Microsystems, AGL, Hyundai, AAMI, Sophos, Symantec, Nando's, Vodafone NAB and until October 2007, Optus.\n\nUnlike other major suburban hubs within the Sydney metropolitan area, North Sydney has limited shopping facilities and almost no Sunday trading. There are four supermarkets (Aldi, IGA , Coles and Woolworths Metro). The main shopping complex is the Greenwood Plaza, which is connected to North Sydney station. Berry Square is another shopping centre in Berry Street, formerly known as North Sydney Shopping World.\n\nAccording to the , there were 7,705 residents in North Sydney. 48.1% of residents were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were England 5.5%, India 4.3%, China 3.6%, New Zealand 3.2% and United States 1.9%. 63.6% of residents spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 4.1%, Cantonese 2.9%, Hindi 2.0%, Spanish 1.7% and Japanese 1.7%. The most common responses for religion in North Sydney were No Religion 36.7% and Catholic 21.4%.\n\nNorth Sydney is directly linked to the Sydney CBD by road and rail across the Sydney Harbour Bridge. North Sydney railway station is on the North Shore, Northern & Western Line of the Sydney Trains network. Bus services by State Transit are heavily present in Blue Street, connecting train and bus services towards North Sydney's neighbouring suburbs as well as connecting train services to Richmond via City from the T1 North Shore & Northern Lines. The Warringah Freeway links North Sydney south to the Sydney CBD and north to Chatswood, New South Wales. High Street, North Sydney wharf is a wharf stop on the Neutral Bay ferry service, which is part of the Sydney Ferries network. It is possible to walk from parts of North Sydney to the city centre in less than 30 minutes, by way of the Sydney Harbour Bridge.\n\nChurches include St Mary's Catholic Church on Miller Street, St Francis Xavier's War Memorial Church in Mackenzie Street, St Thomas Anglican Church on West and Church Streets, Christ Church on Walker and Lavender Streets, St Peter's Presbyterian Church and Manse on Blues Point Road and Chinese Christian Church on Alfred Street.\n\nA Hare Krishna temple is located on the corner of Falcon Street and Miller Street.\n\nPrimary schools include North Sydney Demonstration School, Mosman Preparatory School and St Marys Primary School. \n\nHigh schools include the public North Sydney Boys High School and North Sydney Girls High School, Cammeraygal High School, the Catholic Marist College North Shore and Monte Sant' Angelo Mercy College and independent schools Wenona School and Sydney Church of England Grammar School (Shore).\n\nSt Aloysius' College of Milson's Point and Loreto Kirribilli are also within the confines of the North Sydney local government area. Post-secondary education providers include the Australian Catholic University, APM College of Business and Communication, Raffles College of Design and Commerce, Walker and Miller Training and Billy Blue College of Design.\n\n\nSt Leonards Park which includes North Sydney Oval is the suburbs major recreation area, popular among joggers and those wishing to walk their dogs. North Sydney Ovals are notably cricket pitches during the summer and the home ground for the Northern Suburbs Rugby Union Club and the North Sydney Bears Rugby League Club during the winter.\n\nThe Norths Pirates Junior Rugby Union Club, is North Sydneys local junior village rugby union team who play all home games at Tunks Park in the adjoining suburb of Cammeray together with North Sydney Brothers, a junior rugby league club and the rugby league teams of Marist College North Shore.\n\n\nDuring the 2000 Summer Olympics, the city was the starting point of the marathon course that would end later at the Olympic Stadium in Sydney.\n\n\n\nThe local government area of North Sydney Council includes the suburb of North Sydney and the surrounding suburbs of Crows Nest, Waverton, Neutral Bay, McMahons Point, Kirribilli, Cremorne (divided between North Sydney & Mosman) and Cammeray.\n\n"}
{"id": "6337653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6337653", "title": "Out-of-pocket expense", "text": "Out-of-pocket expense\n\nAn out-of-pocket expense (or out-of-pocket cost) is the direct payment of money that may or may not be later reimbursed from a third-party source.\n\nFor example, when operating a vehicle, gasoline, parking fees and tolls are considered out-of-pocket expenses for a trip. Car insurance, oil changes, and interest are not, since the outlay of cash covers expenses accrued over a longer period of time. The services rendered and other in-kind expenses are not considered out-of-pocket expenses; the same goes for depreciation of capital goods or depletion.\n\nOrganizations often reimburse out-of-pocket expenses incurred on their behalf, especially expenses incurred by employees on their employers' behalf. In the United States, out-of-pocket expenses for such things as charity, medical bills, and education may be deductions on US income taxes, according to IRS regulations.\n\nTo be out of pocket is to have expended personal resources, often unexpectedly or unfairly, at the end of some enterprise.\n\nIn the health care financing sector, this represents the share of the expenses that the insured party must pay directly to the health care provider, without a third-party (insurer, or government).\n\nUnited States\n\nOut-of-pocket costs are high especially when it comes to prescription drugs in the United States. Before investing in a health care plan, it is very useful to examine the out-of-pocket prescription costs as they may be very low or very high. High out-of-pocket costs may correlate with lower prescription adherence and more importation of medications from foreign countries. Medicare Part D is a federal program aimed at lowering prescription drug costs for Medicare beneficiaries. However, after the first year of Medicare Part D, out-of-pocket drug costs were down, but there was not a noticeable reduction in emergency department visits, hospitalization, or health utility score. Perhaps, some diseases will be more sensitive to Medicare Part D.\n\nAustralia\n\nA recent study published from Australia shows that the out-of-pocket cost burden falls most heavily on patients who are least able to bear it, both in terms of their health and in terms of their income. Among the respondents 14% experienced a heavy financial burden. Medication and medical service expenses were the major costs. This study concluded that despite Australia's universal health coverage (medicare) a substantial portion of senior citizens suffer from excessive out-of-pocket expenditure, and this burden increases with increasing number of chronic conditions. Among the specific conditions, those who experienced cancer, high blood pressure, diabetes or depression were likely to report higher out-of-pocket expenditure.\n\nSome ways to improve physician knowledge of drug costs were thought to be increased physician-patient communication or higher use of information technology. Physicians with high rates of IT use did not have significantly higher knowledge or drug costs. Health IT design should be improved to make it easier for physicians to access cost information at the point of care.\n\n"}
{"id": "52507708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52507708", "title": "Philips Innovation Award", "text": "Philips Innovation Award\n\nThe Philips Innovation Award is an international student entrepreneur award that is organised annually. The award is presented for students (or recently graduated students) who have transformed an innovative idea into a startup. This award may be presented to an individual or team. Participants of the program receive coaching from diverse partners.\n\nRecipients of the Philips Innovation award receive prizes worth of €50,000. Since 2016 a second catagory award is initiated called the Rough Diamond Award\n\n"}
{"id": "41725360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41725360", "title": "Processing Magazine", "text": "Processing Magazine\n\nProcessing Magazine is a monthly trade magazine that covers process manufacturing. It serves manufacturers of food and kindred products, textiles, industrial chemicals, plastic materials, synthetic resins, petroleum, natural gas and pharmaceuticals. In June 2013, it had a circulation of 70,599 copies. It was established in 1987 by Putman Publishing Company and was acquired by Grand View Media Group in 2005. Grand View Media Group is a wholly owned subsidiary of EBSCO Industries, Inc. The magazine has its headquarters in Birmingham, Alabama.\n"}
{"id": "48884406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48884406", "title": "RBA Arabia", "text": "RBA Arabia\n\nRBA Arabia (Arabic: الرابطة العربية لريادة وتحليل الأعمال ) , is a professional Business Designation and acronym for Registered Business Analysts Arabian Community Chapter.\n"}
{"id": "47811382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47811382", "title": "Rabbit Mac", "text": "Rabbit Mac\n\nCharles John Macallum, known as Rabbit Mac, is a Hip Hop and Rap based Indian singer from Malaysia who is active in the Malaysian musical industry. He is also popular in other Asian regions namely India, Singapore, Sri Lanka and also in Canada. Rabbit Mac has thus far created 3 albums and have collaborated with other artists for over 50 albums. Rabbit, who is also into hip-hop Malaysian Tamil Underground music, started his professional music career by making remixes of both English and Tamil songs.\n\nAt the beginning of his career and due to his passion for music and curiosity, Rabbit was noticed by some of the leading pubs and bistros as an Emcee and DJ, getting hired to participate in special shows, Hip Hop shows and Gigs in Penang. The first studio album he collaborated in, was produced in 2005, together with Mista West and D.J.Bluezi. Recently he debuted in a movie called Maindhan which was launched on 7 August 2014 that happen to be Malaysia’s most expensive Tamil movie with his label mate Sheezay.\n\nBesides his already mentioned success, Rabbit Mac has also featured and worked alongside artists like Bionic Asura, Dhilip Varman, Mista Gee, Mc Phoenix, SatishDPaul, Haze Freaky G, Saran Z, Sugu Amigoz, Mc.Syze, Lock Up, Vassan, Sasi the Don, Nakeeran from Malaysia, Shabir from Singapore, Dinesh Kanagarathnam from Sri Lanka, DJ.Sathya, Christopher Columbus from Singapore, Srik from India, and Charles Bosco from United Kingdoms. He featured and composed a sound track for India’s Jaya TV’s “Thuppariyum Pulli”. PSYCHO.unit and Rabbit Mac have also worked with a big time movie making company known as MIG Metrowealth by doing sound tracks for most anticipated local movies “Senario” and “Ngangkong” which were released end of the year 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "4094332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4094332", "title": "Social dumping", "text": "Social dumping\n\nSocial dumping is a practice of employers to use cheaper labour than is usually available at their site of production or sale. In the latter case, migrant workers are employed; in the former, production is moved to a low-wage country or area. The company will thus save money and potentially increase its profit. Systemic criticism suggests that as a result, governments are tempted to enter a so-called \"social policy regime competition\" by reducing their labour and social standards to ease labour costs on enterprises and to retain business activity within their jurisdiction.\n\nThere is a controversy around whether social dumping takes advantage of an EU directive on internal markets, the Bolkestein directive.\n\nEntities losing from social dumping:\n\nEntities gaining from social dumping:\n\nA joint NGO statement on the EU Seasonal Migrant Workers' Directive also warns against social dumping. The document argues that a vague definition of seasonal work might fail to cover all types of seasonal employment taking place when the Directive exerts its otherwise-welcome protective measures on the labour market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31532540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31532540", "title": "Socially optimal firm size", "text": "Socially optimal firm size\n\nIf only diseconomies of scale existed, then the long-run average cost-minimizing firm size would be one worker, producing the minimal possible level of output. However, economies of scale also apply, which state that large firms can have lower per-unit costs due to buying at bulk discounts (components, insurance, real estate, advertising, etc.) and can also limit competition by buying out competitors, setting proprietary industry standards (like Microsoft Windows), etc. If only these \"economies of scale\" applied, then the ideal firm size would be infinitely large. However, since both apply, the firm must not be too small or too large, to minimize unit costs.\n\nThe \"diseconomies of scale\" do not tend to vary widely by industry, but \"economies of scale\" do. An auto maker has very high fixed costs, which are lower per unit of output the more output is produced. On the other hand, a florist has very low fixed costs and hence very limited sources of economies of scale. Thus there are disparate degrees of economies of scales for different types of organizations.\n\nAn industrial society will tend to have large firms, as industry has substantial economies of scale. A service-based economy will favor smaller firms, as services have limited economies of scale. There will, of course, be exceptions, such as Microsoft, which is a huge services company. \n\nIf the market for a product exhibits free entry, meaning that firms can enter (and exit) the market at will with no logistical, legal, or other inhibiting factors, and if firms have U-shaped long-run average cost curves as in the graphs at the right, then in the long run all firms will end up producing at their point of minimum average cost. For suppose a particular firm with the illustrated long-run average cost curve is faced with the market price \"P\" indicated in the upper graph. The firm produces at the quantity of output where marginal cost equals marginal revenue (labeled \"Q\" in the upper graph), and its per-unit economic profit is the difference between average revenue AR and average total cost ATC at that point, the difference being \"P\" minus \"C\" in the graph's notation. With firms making economic profit and with free entry, other firms will enter the market for this product, and their additional supply will bring down the market price of the product; this process will continue until there is no longer any economic profit to entice further entrants. The long-run outcome is shown in the second graph, with production by each firm occurring at the newly labelled \"Q\", with marginal cost equalling price at the minimum of the long-run average cost curve, and with the gap between average revenue (the height of the average revenue curve at this \"Q\") and average cost (the height of the average cost curve at this \"Q\") being zero.\n\nThus with firms possessing U-shaped long-run average cost curves, perfect competition, with (1) firms small enough relative to the overall market that they cannot individually influence the product's market price, and with (2) free entry, leads in the long run to a situation in which no firm is making economic profit, and in which firms are of their socially optimal size (producing at the minimum of their long-run average cost curve).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2205324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2205324", "title": "South African Institute of Chartered Accountants", "text": "South African Institute of Chartered Accountants\n\nThe South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA), is a professional accountancy body in South Africa.\n\nAs of August 2013, the institute has over 36 000 members. \"SAICA\" provides support, advice and services to its CAs throughout their professional lives. \"SAICA\" members are business advisors, business leaders and entrepreneurs. SAICA members can use the CA(SA) designation.\n\nTo become a student and a member of South African Institute of Chartered Accountants the candidate needs to enroll for a B Com Accounting degree or an equivalent CA(SA) undergraduate qualification at a SAICA accredited university.\nOnce the degree is completed the student is required to complete his Certificate in the Theory of Accounting (CTA). This course focuses on accounting, auditing, taxation and financial management. The course takes a minimum of one year and must be completed at a SAICA accredited university.\nUpon completion of CTA, the candidates are eligible to enter into a 3-year learnership with a Registered Training Office (RTO) (to specialise in auditing) or an Approved Training Organisation (ATO) (to specialise in financial management)\n\nSAICA is constituted of four local regional offices as well as two international representative offices, which serve members based in those respective regions. The regions are as follows;\n\n\nSAICA members serve on international accounting bodies including; the trustees of the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation (IFRS Foundation), the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and the Council of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).\n\nInternational contact and co-operation is fundamental to the standing and image of SAICA. Hence, the institute plays an influential role in the Eastern, Central & Southern African Federation of Accountants (ECSAFA). ECSAFA coordinates the development of the accountancy profession and promotes internationally recognised standards of professional competence and conduct in Eastern, Central and Southern Africa.\nSAICA was a charter member of the Pan African Federation of Accountants, which was inaugurated on 5 May 2011.\n\nSAICA is also a member of the Global Accounting Alliance (GAA) – an alliance of the world’s leading professional accountancy bodies, which was formed in 2005. The GAA is intended to promote quality services, share information and collaborate on important international issues. It works with national regulators, governments and stakeholders, through member-body collaboration, articulation of consensus views, and working in collaboration, where possible with other international bodies, especially IFAC.\n\nThe first professional institute for accountants in South Africa was the Institute of Accountants and Auditors, formed in the South African Republic in Johannesburg in 1894 with 65 members. A year later the Institute of Accountants in Natal was established. The need to regulate the profession lead to the further establishment of various provincial institutes. In a move towards standardization, the first articles of clerkship were instituted in 1905 and the first journal was published in 1909. Although it did not become a regular publication till 1954, the journal was the sole communication vehicle aimed directly at members and indicated a need for unification. Between 1905 and 1907 accounting societies were established naming Cape Colony, The Orange River Colony and Natal. By the end of 1907, the Transvaal Society of Accountants(which represented more than a half of the registered accountants in South Africa) had grown to 522 members. From the earliest times attempts were made to form a national body. The first meaningful step took place on 6 May 1921 when the South African Accounting Societies' General Examining Board was formed to conduct the examination process on behalf of the societies. The second major milestone on the road to unification occurred in 1927, when the Chartered Accountants Designation (Private) Act was passed by parliament. The Act provided protection for the CA(SA) allowing only members of the then provincial societies to use it.\n\nBut world and local politics at the time hampered efforts towards forming a national body and it was only in 1945 that the Joint Council of the Societies of Chartered Accountants (SA), which provided a forum for co-operation between the societies, was formed.\nIn 1950 all theoretical teaching and examining was handed over to universities, but the profession retained the right to set the qualifying examination. The first CTA examinations were held in 1951. The Public Accountants and Auditors Act was also promulgated in 1951 and it brought into place the regulation of accountants and auditors in public practice. The General Examining Board continued to set the qualifying examination until 1957 when it was taken over by the Public Accountants' and Auditors' Board (PAAB).\n\nIn 1966 The National Council of Chartered Accountants came into being with its own small secretariat – a further step in the process for unification which was finally achieved in 1980 when the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants was formed with 9012 members.\n1973 saw the enactment of a new Companies Act and with it the requirement of companies to present financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice. The profession, together with chambers of commerce and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, formed the Accounting Practices Board to issue statements of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.\n\nWith the beginnings of globalization, the profession internationally felt the need to work more closely together. This led to the creation of IFAC in 1977 and South Africa was one of the founder members. Although the first woman CA(SA), Miss Elizabeth Kruger, qualified in 1917, it was not until 1977 that Wiseman Nkuhlu was admitted as the first black African CA(SA).\n\nThe 1980s proved to be an era of change. While SAICA established numerous committees to improve its service to members and to set standards, the profession recognised the need to open the doors to more black and female CAs(SA). A committee, under the chairmanship of Brian Hawksworth, began to promote this initiative. In 1987 the CAs' Eden Trust came into being as a joint effort between SAICA, the PAAB and the Association for the Advancement of Black Accountants (ABASA) to provide bursaries and grow the number of black CAs(SA). The Eden Trust assisted over 100 black accountants to qualify. In 2002 its name was changed to the Thuthuka Bursary Fund and it was fully incorporated into the institute's transformation and growth strategy.\n\nIn 1999 SAICA took over the role of setting the Part 1 of the Qualifying Examination (QE I) from the PAAB (the predecessor of the IRBA), while the PAAB took over the responsibility for setting auditing standards, and with this came more clearly defined roles for both bodies.\n\nThe profession began a long process to revise the PAA Act in the early 1990s and this process will came to fruition in 2005 when the Auditing Profession Act (Act 26 of 2005) was promulgated (the Act commenced on 1 April 2006). The process has been upset by a spate of international and local corporate failures, with the result that governments worldwide saw the need for regulation of auditors to be tightened up and became more involved in the process.\nAnother issue that still requires the profession and SAICA's contribution is that of Transformation. The Thuthuka project, an initiative by SAICA to promote skills development and transformation in the CA profession, was launched in the Eastern Cape in 2002 and it was expanded to Limpopo and Kwazulu-Natal in 2004. This programme is providing education support to African learners and students, and seeks to uplift communities while benefiting the CA profession. To regulate SAICA’s efforts going forward, the Institute has now implemented a system whereby leadership issues are identified by the SAICA Board and delegated to the secretariat, so that each day SAICA adds a little more to its history.\nConfusion often arises regarding the differing roles and responsibilities of SAICA and the IRBA [previously the Public Accountants and Auditors Board (PAAB)]. It is important to understand the roles of the two bodies.\n\nSAICA is a non-profit, voluntary body that provides a wide range of services to its members and associates. It is controlled by a Board, elected by members through regional committees, and by bodies representing the Institute's other key constituencies such as members in business (commerce and industry), large practices, small practices and ABASA. The IRBA is the statutory body controlling that part of the accountancy profession involved with public accountancy in the Republic of South Africa.\n\nIt is important to stress that all entrants to the accountancy profession are subject to consistent requirements. Following qualification, chartered accountants entering public practice are required to register with the IRBA, whilst keeping their SAICA membership, and are governed by its regulations. Those qualified chartered accountants practicing outside of public practice are not subject to the jurisdiction of the IRBA, but are subject to the jurisdiction of SAICA. The IRBA functions in terms of the Auditing Profession Act, 2005 (Act 26 of 2005). Its members are appointed by the Minister of Finance and not more than 40% of the members of the IRBA Board may be registered auditors.\n\nThe IRBA is partly funded by fees and levies payable by registered auditors and partly by the National Treasury. The IRBA reports annually to the Minister of Finance, who then tables the report in Parliament.\n\nThe mission of the IRBA, on the other hand, is to protect the financial interest of the South African public and international investors in South Africa, through the effective regulation of audits conducted by registered auditors and accountants, and in accordance with internationally recognised standards and processes. This is achieved by providing the means and the regulatory framework for the education and training of adequate numbers of competent and disciplined accountants and auditors, to serve the needs of South Africa. The Board strives constantly towards the maintenance and improvement of standards of registered auditors. It protects the public who rely on the services of registered auditors and supports registered auditors who carry out their duties competently, fearlessly and in good faith.\n\nIn order to ensure that all members, associates and trainees comply with the high professional standards set, SAICA provides technical support, continuing professional development (lifelong learning), disseminates and communicates the latest information on technical developments and business trends to its constituencies.\n\nOne of SAICA's major objectives is to ensure that membership of the accountancy profession better reflects the population demographics of South Africa. To this end, the Institute has a number of initiatives in place designed to increase the number of CAs(SA) from previously disadvantaged communities.\n\nThe responsibility for training prospective CAs(SA) is a shared one. SAICA is responsible for the registration of trainees and management of their training contracts, either in public practice or outside public practice. Trainees who do not wish to follow the public practice route may specialise in financial management. The Institute sets and adjudicates the Part I (QE 1) and the Part II in financial management examination (QE 2), for those trainees who have opted to take the financial management route. The IRBA exercises a monitoring role over the SAICA public practice training and QE I examination processes.\n\nThe IRBA is also responsible for setting and marking the Public Practice Examination (PPE) for those trainees choosing the public practice route. Trainees may only write QE 2 or PPE after they have passed QE 1 and upon the completion of a minimum of 18 months of a three-year training contract. After completing their training contract and passing both QE 1 and QE 2 or PPE, candidates are required to register with SAICA in order to use the Chartered Accountant [CA(SA)] designation.\n\nThe IRBA conducts practice reviews, investigations and disciplinary processes for registered auditors and accountants. Generally, an individual registered with the IRBA is also a CA(SA) registered with SAICA and therefore must comply with the Codes of Professional Conduct of both bodies. According to the Constitution and By-laws of SAICA, any alleged misconduct by a person who is a member of both bodies is dealt with by the IRBA, in the first instance. SAICA accepts the findings of the IRBA disciplinary process and imposes its own disciplinary sentences on those found guilty. Disciplinary matters relating to members not registered with the IRBA, and associates, are dealt with by the SAICA ethics and disciplinary process.\n\nMembers of SAICA are entitled to use CA(SA) designation after their names. The designation is associated with someone who has considerable expertise in the theory and practice of accountancy. The requirements for qualification as a Chartered Accountant are:\n\n\nAn AGA (SA) is a highly skilled accountant who has completed both a SAICA-accredited BCom degree and SAICA accredited training programme.\nAGAs operate in a broad range of varied work activities, most of which are complex and non-routine.\n\nCore areas include:\n\nThe AAT qualification is offered through the Association of Accounting Technicians. The range of an AAT's work will vary widely. Generally AATs work in support positions and some of their key functions include:\nAAT trainees are required to complete a training contract of at least two years and must pass an examination before they are entitled to use the AAT (SA) designation. See .\n\nA South African Chartered Accountant, or CA(SA), is the equivalent of a United States CPA (Certified Public Accountant). However, the CPA designation also exists in South Africa. This qualification was previously designated CFA (Certified Financial Accountant). South African CPAs perform only accounting and tax work, usually for smaller entities, and may not perform auditing work.\n\nA recent legal battle between SAICA and the CPA governing body: SAICA requested that the CPA designation be changed back to CFA (Certified Financial Accountant) because the \"CPA\" designation might create confusion to Americans who might believe that CPAs can act as auditors. Using the term CPA is also a contravention of the Audit Profession Act which states that only CAs may use the term \"Public Accountant\" or \"Registered Auditor\".\n\nThe eventual outcome of this dispute was that the CPA governing body changed its name to SAIPA, the South African Institute of Professional Accountants, and its members designation changed to Professional Accountant (SA) without a corresponding acronym.\n\nThe requirements to earn the designation are:\n\n"}
{"id": "54181123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54181123", "title": "Stelios Joannou", "text": "Stelios Joannou\n\nStelios Joannou or Ioannou (Greek: Στέλιος Ιωάννου; 30 January 1915 – 8 May 1999) was an internationally acclaimed Cypriot industrialist and philanthropist, one of the two cofounders of the formidable Joannou & Paraskevaides construction firm, known by its trademark, J&P.\n\nBorn in Pano Lefkara, near Larnaca (Cyprus), Stelios Joannou was the son of Ttofi (Christofis) and Panagiota Ioannou. At a young age, together with his parents and his sister, Eleni, he moved to Nicosia, where his father owned and successfully directed a small inn that operated in parallel as a trading post for various goods. Growing up in the environment of the famous ‘Ttofi’s Inn’, also called ‘St Anthony’s Inn’, Ioannou had the opportunity to receive a hands-on business education and to witness first-hand the problems, strengths and needs faced by the rural population and the people active in production and trade in Cyprus.\n\nAfter completing his studies at the Pancyprian Gymnasium and the English School, Nicosia, he initially entered the world of commerce. In 1938 he married Ellie Mousoulou (Karavas, Kyrenia, Cyprus, 29 December 1919 – Nicosia, Cyprus, 26 June 2010), the daughter of Sophocles and Evridiki Mousoulou and the sister of the eminent academic Loukas Mousoulou and the businessman Leonidas Mousoulou. Stelios and Ellie Joannou (Ioannou) had three children, Leonidas (Dakis), Sylvia and Christos, and together they embarked on a long and fruitful path as philanthropists. Their charitable endeavours intensified after the death of their younger son, Christos, in a car accident in 1971, at the age of 26. Despite his international business success, Ioannou never forgot his origins. Firmly committed to the interests of his homeland, he became a great benefactor of Cyprus through his charity and entrepreneurial activities. \n\nStelios Joannou passed away at the age of 84 on 8 May 1999 at the Nicosia General Hospital, where he had undergone surgery for an aortic aneurysm. The funeral was conducted by the Archbishop of Cyprus, Chrysostomos I, at the Church of Our Lady Pallouriotissa, Nicosia, on 10 May 1999. Many ambassadors, government ministers, parliamentarians, leaders and representatives of political parties and unions, entrepreneurs, friends and relatives were in attendance, as well as a large crowd of people who had benefitted from Ioannou’s charity. The coffin was draped with the Greek flag, and the eulogy was delivered by Glafcos Clerides, then President of the Republic of Cyprus and a friend of Joannou.\n\nA true humanist who exhibited a great sensibility for literary and cultural affairs, Ellie Joannou (Ioannou) was repeatedly presented with awards for her contributions by such entities as the Red Cross and Stasinos, the Association of Greek Philologists of Cyprus (1981). After the death of Stelios Joannou, she furthered their common causes and worked towards the implementation of many of the visions that her husband did not live to realize, most significantly the construction of the exceptional Library and Learning Resource Centre at the University of Cyprus. She was also the first recipient of the Woman of the Year Award in Cyprus (2005).\n\nIn 1941, at age 26, Stelios Joannou formed a partnership with the architect–engineer George Paraskevaides and was responsible for the financial administration and management of the enterprise. Initially they undertook the execution of defensive military works for the protection of Cyprus from German and Italian air raids during World War II. Later, in 1961, the partners founded the J&P construction company, through which they expanded their activities outside the shores of the island and firmly placed Cyprus on the international business map.\n\nJ&P’s projects in the greater Middle East region were crucial for the recovery of the Cypriot economy, which had collapsed in the wake of the Turkish invasion of 1974, by providing work for thousands of unemployed Cypriots. Economic recovery was also furthered by Ioannou’s instrumental and decisive company policy initiative whereby recruitment of any employee was conditional on accepting payment of two thirds of their salary in Cyprus instead of in the foreign countries where the company was active. In this way, substantial transfers of necessary capital were funnelled back into Cyprus, invigorating the ruined economy of the island.\n\nTo this day, Joannou & Paraskevaides continues its successful international course in construction projects. Its Greek subsidiary, J&P Hellas S.A., has been active since 1993, initially as Zeus A.T.E. and later renamed J&P Hellas A.T.E. Following a merger with AVAX S.A., the current, well-known construction company J&P–AVAX S.A. was formed.\n\nStelios and Ellie Joannou (Ioannou) were involved in a wide range of humanitarian activities, strengthening or establishing charitable, medical and educational institutions and historical and cultural associations and aiding monasteries, churches and patriarchates, as well as sports and refugee associations. Significant achievements of their rich social and benevolent efforts include the following: \n\nThe Christos Stelios Ioannou Foundation was established in 1983 for the care, training, rehabilitation and social reintegration of people with learning difficulties. This organization was augmented by a contribution towards the creation in 1988 of the Mental Retardation Prevention Center, later renamed the Center for Preventive Paediatrics in 2002, and through further grants towards the operation of the St Christopher Home (1998) and the Integrated Residential Units (EOM) that care for adults with learning difficulties who lack home care. These intensive efforts, as well as the leading role played by Stelios and Ellie Joannou in the introduction and establishment of the Special Olympics Institution in Cyprus, contributed considerably towards removing the social stigma attached to disabled people and their families.\n\nStelios Joannou was named the first president and major benefactor of the Lions Care for Youth Foundation (ΛΙΑΑΠ) and was also the first and major benefactor of the Agia Skepi Therapeutic Community (1998), which assists substance abusers undergoing detoxification.\n\nThe foundation of a research centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies at the University of Oxford was envisioned by Ellie Joannou (Ioannou) and was financed by herself and her children in memory of Stelios Joannou. In 2007, the University honoured him by naming the centre the Stelios Ioannou School for Research in Classical and Byzantine Studies.\nEllie Joannou (Ioannou) also spearheaded the construction of the outstanding Library at the University of Cyprus. This mixed-use building (on 5 levels and covering a total area of more than 15,000 square metres) was designed by the award-winning French architect Jean Nouvel, inspired by the landscape around the campus. It houses the Library, the Information Systems Services, the Centre for Teaching Support Technologies and the University’s Language Centre.\n\nThe social and intellectual legacy of Stelios and Ellie Joannou (Ioannou) has been continued and expanded by their children Dakis and Sylvia and their families. Dakis Joannou, entrepreneur and collector of contemporary art, is the founder of the DESTE Foundation for Contemporary Art and sits on the boards of various institutions and internationally acclaimed modern art museums. Sylvia Ioannou is the founder of the Sylvia Ioannou Foundation, which holds one of the world’s most important private collections of rare books and maps of Cyprus, working towards the preservation and dissemination of Cypriot heritage found in print and manuscript form and the promotion of research on Cyprus through the support of various Humanities study programmes.\n\nSome of the distinctions bestowed, in life and posthumously, on Stelios Joannou for his contributions to business and social causes include the following. He was awarded the Order of the Sultanate of Oman and the Gold Medal of Zeno of Citium (accepted on behalf of the Christos Stelios Ioannou Foundation). He was honoured by the Red Cross, the Church of Alexandria (for his contribution towards the rebuilding of the Patriarchate building), the Archdiocese of Thyateira and Great Britain, the Melathron Agoniston EOKA (House of Cypriot Freedom Fighters) and the Aspis Refugee Club-Association. He was awarded the Medal for Outstanding Service of the Republic of Cyprus (presented to Ellie Joannou (Ioannou) on 18 January 2001 by Glafcos Clerides). He received the Golden Key of the Municipality of Lefkara, while the City of Nicosia declared him an Honorary Citizen in 2003 and named the area between Delphi and Zannetou Streets in the parish of St Andreas as Stelios Joannou Square. He was also honoured by the American Hellenic Institute Foundation (AHIF), the Pancyprian Land and Building Developers Association (LBDA), the Cyprus Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KEBE) ‘for his valuable contribution to the development of Cyprus’ relations with Arab countries’, and the Technical Chamber of Cyprus (ETEK) ‘for his contribution to the promotion of engineering science and his overall social contribution’ (7 May 2011), as well as by various sports institutions and associations such as the Nicosia District National Football Federation (ΕΠΟΠΛ), the National Youth Union Mammari Rotsides Football Club and the Union of Cyprus Sports Writers. On 17 October 2016 Cyprus Post released a stamp with his image, included in the Great Cypriot Benefactors series.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322863", "title": "Stockholm Stock Exchange", "text": "Stockholm Stock Exchange\n\nThe Stockholm Stock Exchange (), operating under the name Nasdaq Stockholm, is a stock exchange located in Frihamnen, Stockholm, Sweden. Founded in 1863, it has become the primary securities exchange of the Nordic countries. More than 300 companies have been listed for trading.\n\nThe Stockholm Stock Exchange was acquired by futures exchange OM in 1998. After OM merged with the Helsinki Stock Exchange to form what is now OMX in 2003, the Stockholm and Helsinki exchanges' operations were merged. Since 2008, the Stockholm Stock Exchange has been part of Nasdaq, Inc. (formerly called \"Nasdaq OMX Group\") and its Nasdaq Nordic markets. As of October 2014, the exchange operated under the legal name \"Nasdaq OMX Stockholm AB\" (renamed \"Nasdaq Stockholm AB\" in 2015).\n\nPrior to the introduction of electronic trading on 1 June 1990, all trading was conducted on the floor of the Stockholm Stock Exchange Building. \n\nIts normal trading sessions are from 09:00am to 05:30pm on all days of the week except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays declared by the Exchange in advance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9653282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9653282", "title": "Worth Street", "text": "Worth Street\n\nWorth Street is a two-way street running roughly northwest-southeast in Manhattan, New York City. It runs from Hudson Street, TriBeCa, in the west to Chatham Square in Chinatown in the east. Past Chatham Square, the roadway continues as Oliver Street, a north-south street running one-way northbound. Between West Broadway and Church Street, Worth Street is also known as Justice John M. Harlan Way in honor of the Supreme Court justice and alumnus of the nearby New York Law School. Between Centre and Baxter Streets, Worth Street is also known as the \"Avenue of the Strongest\", \"New York's Strongest\" being a nickname for the city's Department of Sanitation.\n\nWorth Street passes through the cluster of government offices and courthouses centered on Foley Square. 125 Worth Street (at Centre Street) houses the headquarters of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, and the Department of Sanitation. Additionally, the New York Supreme Court courthouses at 60 Centre Street and 80 Centre Street (the Louis J. Lefkowitz Building) and the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Federal Courthouse (Southern District of New York) at 500 Pearl Street all have entrances facing Worth Street.\n\nWhat is now Worth Street originally started at the Five Points intersection and headed west; it was known as Anthony Street. In 1797, it was named Catherine Street (separately from the other Catherine Street to the southeast, which remains today, as well as another one to the north). Starting at Hudson Street, it ended at the western bank of the Collect Pond. Catherine Lane, which ran parallel and to the north, still exists as an alleyway between Broadway and Lafayette Street. An 1807 map shows that the pond was filled in, and that Anthony Street ran to an unlabeled short street where Centre Street is now. After 1811, Anthony Street was extended to Orange Street (later renamed Baxter Street), completing the \"fifth point\" of the intersection by bisecting its northeast corner. In 1854, it was renamed Worth Street in honor of Major-general William J. Worth, hero of the 1848 Mexican War. Worth is buried two miles north in Worth Square, which is at the north end of Madison Square near 26th Street. In 1868, the city opened the section from Five Points east to Chatham Square.\n\nA station on the New York City Subway's IRT Lexington Avenue Line at Worth Street was open between 1904 and 1962.\n\nOn February 5, 2016, a crane collapsed on Worth Street at 60 Hudson Street, killing one person and injuring two others.\n"}
{"id": "22302277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22302277", "title": "Xavier-Luc Duval", "text": "Xavier-Luc Duval\n\nCharles Gaëtan Xavier Luc Duval (born 28 January 1958) is a Mauritian politician who was Deputy Prime Minister of Mauritius in the cabinet of Sir Anerood Jugnauth from December 2014 to December 2016. He was also Minister of Tourism & External Communications and serves as 1st Member of Parliament elected from Constituency No 18 Belle Rose & Quatres Bornes. He is the leader of the Mauritian Social Democrat Party (PMSD), which was a minority party in the Alliance Lepep. After the PMSD left the government on 19 December 2016, Xavier-Luc Duval was appointed as the leader of the opposition by the President. His party, the PMSD, has 11 MPs, and he succeeded Paul Berenger.\n\nHe served as Vice Prime Minister in the cabinet of Navin Ramgoolam from 2005 to June 2014. He was previously Minister of Tourism from 2005 to 2010, Minister of Social Integration from 2010 to 2011 and Minister of Finance and Economic Development from 2011 to 2014.\n\nHis first candidacy was in 1987 where he was elected to serve as Member of Parliament for Constituency No 4, Port Louis North & Montagne Longue. He was candidate of the MSM, part of the MSM/Labour Party alliance led by Sir Anerood Jugnauth.\n\nHe later joined the Mauritian Social Democrat Party and stood as candidate for the 1991 elections where he was not elected under the Labour Party/Mauritian Social Democrat Party alliance. He later stood as candidate in 1995 under the 'Parti Geatan Duval' in constituency no 17, Curepipe and Midlands.\n\nHe then created his own party known as the PMXD which was dissolved in 2009 to merge with the Mauritian Social Democrat Party. He was then elected leader of the party. His party was in alliance with the Labour Party in 2005 and 2010. Due to the alliance between the Labour Party and MMM in 2014 elections, he resigned as minister on 6 June 2014 and aligned with the MSM to form the Alliance Lepep which then won a landslide victory. He was since then appointed as Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nXavier Luc Duval is the son of Sir Gaetan Duval, former leader of the opposition, later Deputy Prime Minister and leader of the PMSD.\n\nXavier Luc Duval holds a degree in Economics from the University of Leeds in England. B.A. Hons. Econ University of Leeds, U.K and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, F.C.A. During his professional career, he was a founding partner of Coopers & Lybrand and Director Abacus Financial Services. He was previously a partner at Haskins and Sells Mauritius and a founder and managing director of The Financial Training Company Mauritius Limited and Halifax Management Limited.\n\nIn October 2000, he became senior partner at Nexia, Baker & Arenson, the Mauritian representative firm of Nexia International, a worldwide network of accountants and consultants employing some 12,000 professionals in 76 countries worldwide. He held this position at Nexia Mauritius until 2006.\n\nFirstly elected as member of parliament in 1987, he was minister in 1995 in the government of Sir Anerood Jugnauth as Minister of Industry and Tourism, then became Minister of Industry, Commerce, Corporate Affairs & Financial Services in the Government led by the Mauritius Labour Party, between 1999 and 2000. He was then Minister of Tourism, Leisure and External Communications from 2005 to 2010, in the coalition again with the MLP and Minister of Social Integration from 2010 to 2011. He serves as Member of Parliament for constituency No 18, Belle Rose and Quatre Bornes since 2005.\n\nAs Minister of Tourism and External Communication, Xavier-Luc Duval contributed to boost the image de marque of the destination culminating in a record in growth of tourist arrivals and revenues in 2008. During his time in office he also introduced a New Tourism Act enhanced regulations and improving the business climate to boost the tourism sector.\n\nIn 2006 with the creation of the Festival International Kreol, Xavier-Luc Duval aimed at promoting creole culture through poetry, dance and music. The festival has become a yearly event, with participation of international creole artists such as Compagnie Creole, Zouk Machine, Images, Shaggy, to name a few and the best Mauritian groups (notably Sanedhip Bhimjee) as well as experts of creole language.\n\nDuring his mandate at the Ministry of Tourism, tremendous work was done to upgrade a large number of sites, including touristic sites and residential areas, especially some places like Roche-Bois for a better integration on the train of development.\n\nXavier-Luc Duval was given the responsibility to launch the Ministry of Social Integration Economic Empowerment after the general elections of 2010. He created a new policy for social housing, launched a new program for the integration of the young children at grass root level, encouraged the empowerment of women and identifying new talents in vulnerable groups (through sports and arts), as economic empowerment gained a new impetus under his leadership.\n\nWhen he was appointed Minister of Finance in mid-2011, Duval did not lose sight of social integration. In his successive Budgets in 2012 2013 and 2014 huge support has been given to the vulnerable groups, especially in the fields of housing and education. Special schemes include the construction of concrete cum CIS houses in poor areas or abolition of fees for the purchase of land. Financial support is given to the needy children who attend school, day care centres are created in specific areas. Generally, all students of Form 4 and Form 5 are now entitled to own a tablet.\n\nFishermen involved in low scale fisheries are encouraged to enroll in aquaculture projects. They also benefit of VAT refund on their equipment and boats. This is also the case for small planters.\n\nHon. Duval has also been very active in promoting youth employment and measures He launched a Youth Employment Programme in 2013 which has already employed more than 5,000 youth. Support to SMEs is another aspect which he is very sensible to, especially with regards to access to finance. He has introduced a special scheme with the partnership of commercial banks.\n\nMore importantly, Hon. Duval has geared the economy safely with Mauritius maintaining sound economic fundamentals as the growth is, against all odds, at 3.2%, and inflation under control at 3.6% Unemployment rate is at 8.3%. Total investments for 2013 is totalling Rs 10 billion.\n\nIn his successive Budgets Hon. Duval has emphasised on the importance of technology. Various measures have been introduced to increase internet penetration and the use of technology at school, in entreprises, at home and in various public services. E-payment is now a reality at the Mauritius Revenue Authority, tablets and wifi have been introduced at school.\n\nHon. Duval's vision is to make Mauritius movie towards a higher wage economy. The country is already a renowned financial center of excellence and the Minister of Finance has spared no efforts to improve its legal framework. He has also given impetus to new sectors by introducing frameworks for the film industry and bunkering services.\n\nBut the trademark of Hon. Duval is undeniably his African policy and his continuous efforts to promote Mauritius as a gateway to the continent for investment, promotional activities, support to entreprises, networking and training.\n\nHe has launched the African Centre of Excellence in 2012 which provides information, encourages networking, and facilitates projects in Africa. 15 projects are already on going and 50 others are in the pipeline. The Mauritius Africa Fund has been launched this year to on stimulate Mauritian investment into Africa. The Export Guarantee Scheme, for export oriented enterprises to invest in Africa.\nAs Minister of Finance, Duval has twice been voted as African Finance Minister of the Year by Africa Investor – 2012 and 2013 as well as African Finance Minister of the Year by African Leadership Magazine in 2012.\n\nIn 2013 he has been chosen as chairman Global Advisory Board by African Leadership Network. He also received the Distinguished Foreign Business Leadership Award by the Villanova Business School of the University of Villanova in Philadelphia, USA in 2012. In October 2013, he has been elevated to the rank of Commandeur de l'Ordre National de l'Etoile Equatoriale by President Ali Bongo Ondimba of Gabon.\nAfricans are also encouraged to take advantage of what Mauritius has to offer with specific schemes for training. Above all, visa requirements have been waived for 50 out of 54 African countries which is a testimony of Mauritius' intention to play a major role as the perfect meeting point in Africa.\n\nHon. X. L. Duval is married to Marie Jennifer Duval and is father of three children; Stephanie Duval, Alexandre Duval and Adrien Duval.\n\nDuval was appointed as Grand Commander of The Star & Key of the Indian Ocean on the labour day of 2008 by the President Sir Anerood Jugnauth and thus uses the Prefix Hon. and post nominal GCSK.\n\nGrand Commander of the Star and Key of the Indian Ocean(G.C.S.K.), Republic of Mauritius – 2009\nCommandeur de l'Ordre National de l'Etoile Equatoriale de la République Gabonaise – 2013\n\nDistinguished Foreign Business Leadership Award by the Villanova Business School of the University of Villanova in Philadelphia, USA −2012\nAfrican Finance Minister of the Year by African Leadership Magazine −2012\nAfrican Finance Minister of the Year by Africa Investor −2012\nAfrican Finance Minister of the Year by Africa Investor −2013\nSouthern African Economic Development Champion Award by African Leadership Magazine – 2014\nSpecial Commendation from the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus, USA – 2014\n\nChairman Global Advisory Board – African Leadership Network (since 2013)\n\nChairman of Public Accounts Committee (PAC), (2000–2005)\n"}
