{"id": "26684180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26684180", "title": "6₃ knot", "text": "6₃ knot\n\nIn knot theory, the 6 knot is one of three prime knots with crossing number six, the others being the stevedore knot and the 6 knot. It is alternating, hyperbolic, and fully amphichiral.\nIt can be written as the braid word\n\nLike the figure-eight knot, the 6 knot is fully amphichiral. This means that the 6 knot is amphichiral, meaning that it is indistinguishable from its own mirror image. In addition, it is also invertible, meaning that orienting the curve in either direction yields the same oriented knot.\n\nThe Alexander polynomial of the 6 knot is\n\nConway polynomial is\n\nJones polynomial is\n\nand the Kauffman polynomial is\n\nThe 6 knot is a hyperbolic knot, with its complement having a volume of approximately 5.69302.\n"}
{"id": "32936618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32936618", "title": "Abd al-Jalil ibn Wahbun", "text": "Abd al-Jalil ibn Wahbun\n\nAbu Mohammed Abd al-Jalil ibn Wahbun, better known as simply Ibn Wahbun (died 1090), was a poet from Al Andalus in the 11th century. He made his career at the court of Al-Mutamid in Sevilla and the Almoravid court in Marrakesh. He was born in Murcia ca. 1039/1049. He was murdered by Christian raiders on the road from Lorca to Murcia in 1087. One of his poems is the famous ode to the battle of Zalaca.\n\n"}
{"id": "37134627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37134627", "title": "Adalbero III of Luxembourg", "text": "Adalbero III of Luxembourg\n\nAdalbero III of Luxembourg (13 November 1072) was a German nobleman. He was a titular Count of Luxembourg and Bishop of Metz.\n\nAdalbero was the third son of Count Frederick of Luxembourg and a brother of Count Giselbert. In 1047, he succeeded his uncle Dietrich II (d. 30 April 1047) as Bishop of Metz. He distinguished himself by his piety, his education, the prudent manner in which he administered his bishopric and his political influence.\n\nHe was a teacher of Bruno of Eguisheim-Dagsburg, who became Bishop of Toul in 1026. In 1049, Adalbero III was present at the meeting in Worms, organized by Emperor Henry III, where Bruno was elected as the imperial candidate to become Pope. Later the people of Rome elected Bruno by acclamation, and he became Pope as Leo IX.\n\nAdalbero III was also present at the council in Rome in 1050 where Bishop Gerard of Toul was canonized.\n\nEmperor Henry IV enfeoffed Adalbero with the County of Saarbrücken.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14273658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14273658", "title": "Agent systems reference model", "text": "Agent systems reference model\n\nThe agent systems reference model (ASRM) is a layered, abstract description for multiagent systems. As such, the reference model\n\nThe ASRM differentiates itself from technical standards, such as Knowledge Interchange Format, Knowledge Query and Manipulation Language, and those of the Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents in that it defines the required \"existence\" of components of a multiagent system; standards prescribe how they are \"designed\".\n\nThe ASRM was technically constructed through forensic software analysis of existing agent-based systems. Such fielded systems include JaDE, Cougaar, EMAA, NOMADS, Retsina, A-Globe, among others. In so doing, through empirical evidence, the ASRM motivates its functional breakdown of agent-based systems.\n\nThe ASRM was started in July 2005, with the first draft having been completed in November 2006. Contributors to the document have included Drexel University, Cougaar Software, Global InfoTek (see also: CoABS), Soar Technology (see also: Soar), Penn State University, University of Southern California, University of South Carolina, the Florida Institute for Human and Machine Cognition, University of West Florida, BBN Technologies, Telcordia, Lockheed Martin, General Dynamics and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38670742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38670742", "title": "Alhaj Mutalib Baig", "text": "Alhaj Mutalib Baig\n\nAlhaj Mutalib Baig (died 25 December 2011) was an Afghan politician. A former commander of the Northern Alliance, and member of the Jamiat-e-Islami party, he represented Takhar province in the House of the People. Beg was an ethnic Uzbek, and a former commander of the Jamiat-e-Islami party. The party was part of the Northern Alliance, an Afghan faction that opposed the Taliban. Baig was the former police chief in Takhar in 2004 and Kunduz in 2006.\n\nBaig was one of 19 people killed in a suicide bombing in Taloqan in December 2011. The attack occurred as people gathered in Taloqan for the funeral of a government official, and was reported to have been carried out by a member of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. Abdul Jabar Taqwa, the Governor of Takhar, had also been invited to the funeral, but did not attend. He later claimed that the target of the bombing was himself or Baig.\n\nBaig had been accused by the local populace of illegal land grabs in Taloqan, and involvement in drug-trafficking in Takhar.\n"}
{"id": "36984479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36984479", "title": "Alloprotein", "text": "Alloprotein\n\nAn alloprotein is a novel synthetic protein containing one or more \"non-natural\" amino acids. Non-natural in the context means an amino acid either not occurring in nature (novel and synthesised amino acids), or occurring in nature but not naturally occurring within proteins (natural but non-proteinogenic amino acids).\n\nThe possibility for novel amino acids and proteins arises because in nature, the genetic code responsible for protein structure has 64 possible codons available for encoding all amino acids used in proteins (4 nucleotides in each of 3 bases; 4 x 4 x 4 gives 64 possible combinations) but in human beings and other eukaryotes these encode for just 20 standard amino acids. This level of information redundancy within the codon table is known in biochemistry as degeneracy. It opens the door for new amino acids to be potentially encoded.\n\nOne approach takes advantage of the redundancy of the 3 codons that encode a \"stop\" signal. If one of these can be substituted by another stop codon, then that codon can in principle be \"reassigned\" (along with requisite tRNA, release factor and enzyme modifications) to code for a novel amino acid without affecting other existing codings. Using this approach, alloproteins and novel amino acids can be created by techniques that \"expand\" the genetic code to include additional novel codings, using newly devised codons and related tRNA (transfer RNA) and tRNA synthetase enzymes (aminoacyl tRNA synthetase). The usual mechanisms, which produce amino acids and combine them into proteins, then produce novel or non-proteinogenic amino acids and incorporate them to make novel proteins the same way. In 2010 this technique was used to reassign a codon in the genetic code of the bacterium \"E. coli\", modifying it to produce and incorporate a novel amino acid, without adversely affecting existing encodings or the organism itself.\n\nAlloprotein uses include the incorporation of unusual or heavy atoms for diffractive structure analysis, photo-reactive linkers (photocrosslinkers), fluorescent groups (used as labelled probes), and molecular switches for signaling pathways.\n\nModern alloprotein techniques were first developed in the late 1980s by Miyazawa and Yokoyama at the University of Tokyo to address limitations of existing methods: genetic manipulation was limited to the 20 standard amino acids, chemical synthesis was limited to small scale and low yield.\n\nAn early use of the term is found in a 1990 paper \"Biosynthesis of alloprotein\", by Koide, Yokoyama and Miyazawa.\n\nA working description is provided by \"Budisa et al\":\n"}
{"id": "183350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183350", "title": "Ambidexterity", "text": "Ambidexterity\n\nAmbidexterity is the state of being equally adapted in the use of both the left and the right hand. When referring to objects, the concept indicates that the object is equally suitable for right-handed and left-handed people. When referring to humans, it indicates that a person has no marked preference for the use of the right or left hand. \n\nOnly about one percent of people are naturally ambidextrous. In more modern times, it is common to find some people considered ambidextrous who were originally left-handed and who learned to be ambidextrous, either deliberately or as a result of training in schools or in jobs where right-handed habits are often emphasized or required. Since many everyday devices (such as can openers and scissors) are asymmetrical and designed for right-handed people, many left-handers learn to use them right-handedly due to the rarity or lack of left-handed models. Thus, left-handed people are more likely to develop motor skills in their non-dominant hand than right-handed people (who are not subjected to left-favoring devices). Right-handers may become ambidextrous due to an injury of their right hand or arm. Ambidexterity is often encouraged in activities requiring a great deal of skill in both hands, such as typing, juggling, musicianship, surgery, sports and martial arts.\n\nThe word \"ambidextrous\" is derived from the Latin roots \"ambi-\", meaning \"both\", and \"dexter\", meaning \"right\" or \"favorable\". Thus, \"ambidextrous\" is literally \"both right\" or \"both favorable\". The term ambidexter in English was originally used in a legal sense of jurors who accepted bribes from both parties for their verdict.\n\nAmbidexterity is highly prized in the sport of baseball. \"Switch hitting\" is the most common phenomenon, and is highly prized because a batter usually has a higher statistical chance of successfully hitting the baseball when it is thrown by an opposite-handed pitcher. Therefore, an ambidextrous hitter can bat from whichever side is more advantageous to him in that situation. Pete Rose, who had more hits than anyone else in the history of Major League Baseball, was a switch hitter. \n\nSwitch pitchers, comparatively rare in contrast to switch hitters, also exist. Tony Mullane won 284 games in the 19th century. Elton Chamberlain and Larry Corcoran were also notable ambidextrous pitchers. In the 20th century, Greg A. Harris was the only major league pitcher to pitch with both his left and his right arm. A natural right-hander, by 1986 he could throw well enough with his left hand that he felt capable of pitching with either hand in a game. Harris wasn't allowed to throw left-handed in a regular-season game until September 28, 1995, the penultimate game of his career. Against the Cincinnati Reds in the ninth inning, Harris (then a member of the Montreal Expos) retired Reggie Sanders pitching right-handed, then switched to his left hand for the next two hitters, Hal Morris and Ed Taubensee, who both batted left-handed. Harris walked Morris but got Taubensee to ground out. He then went back to his right hand to retire Bret Boone to end the inning.\n\nIn the 21st century there is one major league pitcher, Pat Venditte of the Seattle Mariners, who regularly pitches with both arms. Venditte became the 21st century's first switch pitcher in MLB with his debut on June 5, 2015 against the Boston Red Sox, pitching two innings, allowing only one hit and recording five outs right-handed and one out left-handed. Because the art of switch-pitching is such an unusual skill, rule changes restricting the ability of a pitcher to change arms were imposed during Venditte's professional career.\n\nBilly Wagner was a natural right-handed pitcher in his youth, but after breaking his throwing arm twice, he taught himself how to use his left arm by throwing nothing but fastballs against a barn wall. He became a dominant left-handed relief pitcher, most known for his 100+ mph (161+ km/h) fastball. In his 1999 season, Wagner captured the National League Relief Man of the Year Award as a Houston Astro.\n\nSt. Louis Cardinals pitcher Brett Cecil is naturally right-handed, but starting from a very early age, threw with his left. As such, he writes and performs most tasks with the right side of his body, but throws with his left.\n\nAll baseball players have to be ambidextrous fielders, as the glove hand is most often on the off-hand.\n\nIn basketball a player may choose to make a pass or shot with the weaker hand. NBA stars Kobe Bryant, Kyrie Irving, Carlos Boozer, David Lee, John Wall, Derrick Rose, Chandler Parsons, Andrew Bogut, John Henson and Michael Beasley, and Jerryd Bayless are ambidextrous players. Bogut and Henson are both stronger in the post with their left-handed hook shot than they are with their natural right hands. Brothers Marc and Pau Gasol can make hook shots with either hand while the right hand is dominant for each. Bob Cousy, a Boston Celtics legend was forced to play with left hand in high school when he injured his right hand, thus making him effectively ambidextrous. Mike Conley shoots left-handed, but has preferred to shoot floaters right handed, as he does everything else right-handed off the court, Ben Simmons and Luke Kennard are also natural right-handers shooting left-handed. Tristan Thompson is a natural left-hander, and was a left-handed shooter, but has shot right-handed since the 2013-2014 season. He does perform left-handed hook shots more often. LA Clippers center DeAndre Jordan who is left-handed, shoots with his left hand but has been known to dunk with his right hand, spin clockwise in his 360 dunks, and shoot right handed hook shots more accurately and from further out. Los Angeles Lakers center Roy Hibbert shoots his hook shots equally well with either hand. Oklahoma City Thunder left-handed point guard Derek Fisher used to dunk with his right hand in his early years. Candace Parker, forward for the WNBA Sparks team, also has equal dominance with either hand. Los Angeles Lakers superstar Kobe Bryant shoots with either hand, although his right hand is dominant: due to an injury to the right hand, he was forced to shoot with his left. Paul George, Tracy McGrady and Vince Carter are all noted to be right-handed, but rotates clockwise for dunks, but Carter is able to also spin anticlockwise, as he did during high school. McGrady also spins anti-clockwise for his baseline dunks. Larry Bird, LeBron James, Paul Millsap, Russell Westbrook, Danny Ainge and Gary Payton shoot right-handed, but do almost everything left-handed off the courts, but Bird once had a game in which he only shot left-handed running hook shots, cross passes and layups. Ronnie Price, however has a tendency to dunk with his left hand, but he is a right-handed shooter. Josh McRoberts is known to be a left handed shooter but does everything with his right hand such as his famous dunks. Ivica Zubac is a right handed shooter, but can shoot hook shots with both hands, and is more accurate with his left handed hooks.\n\nTrevor Booker is left handed for shooting a basketball but writes with his right hand. Ben Simmons shoots jumpers and free throws left-handed, but does everything else right-handed, including dunking, throwing long passes and writing. He also shoots more right-handed non-jumpers (layups, floaters and hook shots).\n\nIn skateboarding, being able to skate successfully with not only one's dominant foot forward but also the less dominant one is called \"switch skating\" and is a prized ability. Notable switch skateboarders include Rodney Mullen, Eric Koston, Guy Mariano, Paul Rodriguez Jr., Mike Mo Capaldi, and Bob Burnquist. Similarly, surfers who ride equally well in either stance are said to be surfing \"switch”. Also, snowboarding at the advanced level requires the ability to ride equally well in either.\n\nIn combat sports fighters may choose to face their opponent with either the left shoulder forward in a right-handed stance (\"orthodox\") or the right shoulder forward in a left-handed stance (\"south-paw\"), thus a degree of cross dominance is useful. In boxing, Manny Pacquiao has a southpaw stance in the ring even though he is really ambidextrous outside the ring. Also, in mixed martial arts, many naturally left-handed strikers like Lyoto Machida and Anderson Silva will switch stances in order to counter opponent's strikes or takedown attempts to stay standing.\n\nIn cricket, it is also beneficial to be able to use both arms. Ambidextrous fielders can make one handed catches or throws with either hand. Sachin Tendulkar uses his left hand for writing, but bats and bowls with right hand. There are many players who are naturally right handed but bat left and vice versa. Sourav Ganguly uses his right hand for writing and bowls with the right hand, too, but bats with his left hand. Players due to injuries may also switch arms for fielding. Phillip Hughes batted, bowled and fielded left handed before a shoulder injury. Australian batsman George Bailey also due to sustaining an injury, taught himself to throw with his weaker left arm. He is now often seen throughout matches switching between arms as he throws the ball. See also reverse sweep and switch hitting. David Warner has batted right handed in high school, and has practiced right handed as well, when he is normally a left-handed switch-hitter. Alastair Cook, James Anderson, Stuart Broad, Ben Stokes, Adam Gilchrist and Kagiso Rabada are natural right-handers, but bat left handed.\n\nAkshay Karnewar is an ambidextrous bowler. Originally, he only bowled with his right hand, but since he does everything else with his left hand, he was taught to bowl left handed as well, but needs to signal to the umpire when he switch hands when bowling to allow for the field to change. He is a left-handed batsman. As an off-spinner and left-arm orthodox spin, the ball will always spin towards the batsman (OB vs. RHB; SLO vs. LHB), or away from opposite-handed batsmen, which is the predominant role of switch-handed spinners. \n\nSri Lankan Kusal Perera started his cricket as a right hand batsman, until he changed to left hand to mimic his favorite cricketer Sanath Jayasuriya. Another Sri Lankan Kamindu Mendis is also a handy ambidextrous bowler. He can bowl orthodox left-arm spin and he can bowl right-arm offspin as well. Yasir Jan, however is a fast bowler both right and left handed and tops over 140 km/h with both hands, with his right arm being faster.\n\nIn cue sports, players can reach farther across the table if they are able to play with either hand, since the cue must either be placed on the left or the right side of the body. English snooker player Ronnie O'Sullivan is a rarity amongst the current ranks of top snooker professionals, in that he is able to play to world standard with either hand. While he lacks power in his left arm, his ability to alternate hands allows him to take shots that would otherwise require awkward cueing or the use of a rest. When he first displayed this ability in the 1996 World Championship against the Canadian player Alain Robidoux, Robidoux accused him of disrespect. O'Sullivan responded that he played better with his left hand than Robidoux could with his right. O'Sullivan was summoned to a disciplinary hearing in response to Robidoux's formal complaint, where he had to prove that he could play to a high level with his left hand. Many people think O'Sullivan had to play a match against former professional Rex Williams, but this never took place. On Eurosport's coverage of the 2014 International Championships, commentator David Hendon confirmed that O'Sullivan never played the match against Rex Williams.\n\nIn figure skating, most skaters who are right-handed spin and jump to the left, and vice versa for left-handed individuals, but it also down to habit for ballerinas. Olympic Champion figure skater John Curry notably performed his jumps in one direction (anti-clockwise) while spinning predominantly in the other. Very few skaters have such an ability to perform jumps and spins in both directions, and it is now considered a \"difficult variation\" in spins under the ISU Judging System to rotate in the non-dominant direction. Michelle Kwan used an opposite-rotating camel spin in some of her programs as a signature move. No point bonus exists for opposite direction jumps or bi-directional combination jumps, despite their being much harder to perfect. Nobody can perform a jump sequence (because it requires change of edge, whereas a combo is maintained on the same edge) from clockwise to anti-clockwise, or vice versa.\n\nIn association football, being able to kick with either foot provides more options for both passing and scoring, as well as the ability to play on either side of the pitch. Therefore, players with the ability to use their weaker foot with proficiency are valuable in any team. Examples of ambidextrous footballers include Johan Cruyff, Zinedine Zidane, Glenn Hoddle, Alfredo Di Stéfano, Sócrates, Paolo Maldini, George Best, Michael Laudrup, Ronaldo, Pelé, Pavel Nedvěd, Marc Overmars, Michel Platini, Roberto Baggio, Carlos Valderrama, Bobby Charlton, Zico, Tom Finney, John Barnes, and John Charles\n\nGianluca Pagliuca is cross-dominant. He punches and throws with his right, but kicks with his left.\n\nIn rugby league and rugby union being ambidextrous is an advantage when it comes to passing the ball between teammates as well as being able to use both feet by the halves is an advantage in gaining field position by kicking the ball ahead. Jonny Wilkinson is a prime example of a union player who is good at kicking with both feet, he is left handed and normally place kicks using his left, but he dropped the goal that won the Rugby World Cup in 2003 with his right. Dan Carter is actually right handed, but kicks predominantly with his left, sometimes with his right.\n\nIn american football, it is especially advantageous to be able to use both arms. Ambidextrous receivers can make one-handed catches with either hand; linemen can hold their shoulders square and produce an equal amount of power with both arms; and punters can handle a bad snap and roll out and punt with either leg, limiting the chance of a block. Naturally right-handed quarterbacks may have to perform left-handed passes to avoid sacks. Chris Jones is cross dominant. Although he is a left-footed punter, he throws with his right. Chris Hanson was dual-footed, able to punt with either foot.\n\nSome players find cross-dominance advantageous in golf, especially if a left-handed player utilizes right-handed clubs. Having more precise coordination with the left hand is believed to allow better-controlled, and stronger drives. Mac O'Grady was a touring pro who played right-handed, yet could play \"scratch\" (no handicap) golf left-handed. He lobbied the USGA for years to be certified as an amateur \"lefty\" and a pro \"righty\" to no avail. Although not ambidextrous, Phil Mickelson and Mike Weir are both right-handers who golf left-handed; Ben Hogan was the opposite, being a natural left-hander who played golf right-handed. This is known as cross-dominance or mixed-handedness. Katelyn Johnson is a famous ambidextrous women's golf player.\n\nIce hockey players may shoot from the left or right side of the body. For the most part, right-handed players shoot left and, likewise, most left-handed players shoot right as the player will often wield the stick one-handed. The dominant hand is typically placed on the top of the stick to allow for better stickhandling and control of the puck. Players who learn the game in the United States will generally play with their stronger hand in the middle of the stick, thus putting more power into slapshots. Gordie Howe was one of few players capable of doing both, although this was at a time when the blade of the stick was not curved.\n\nAnother ice hockey goaltender Bill Durnan, had the ability to catch the puck with either hand. He won the Vezina Trophy, then for the National Hockey League's goalie with the fewest goals allowed six times out of only seven seasons. He had developed this ability playing for church-league teams in Toronto and Montreal to make up for his poor lateral movement. He wore custom gloves that permitted him to hold his stick with either hand. Most goaltenders nowadays choose to catch with their non-dominant hand.\n\nField hockey players are forced to play right-handed. The rules of the game denote that the ball can only be struck with the flat side of the stick. Only one player Laeeq Ahmed on Pakistan National Hockey team, played with unorthodox left hand below and right hand up side of stick grip with full command. He played from 1991 to 1992 for the national team. Perhaps to avoid confusing referees, there are no left-handed sticks.\n\nIn field lacrosse, which is more popular in the United States, it is extremely advantageous to be able to use both hands, as players can play on both sides of the field and are harder to defend against. Usually in field lacrosse, all players except goalies, but especially offensive players, are expected to be able to catch and throw with their weak hand. However, in box lacrosse, which is more popular in Canada, players often only use their dominant hand, like in hockey.\n\nThe traditional martial arts tend to feature a larger number of practitioners who have intentionally developed ambidexterity to a high degree, compared to athletes in combat sports. This is because unlike sports, which have structured rules and common player preferences, traditional martial arts are intended for situations such as self-defense, in which a wider array of physical challenges may occur.\n\nSome arts and schools practice all or most techniques and movements with both sides, while others emphasize that some techniques should only be trained on the right or the left (though both sides tend to eventually receive nearly equal attention). This may be for a number of reasons. Some of these arts rely on the tendency of right-handed people to move differently with the left side than with the right, and attempt to take advantage of this. Similarly, certain weapons are more often carried on one side. For instance, most weapons in ancient China were wielded primarily with the right hand and on the right side; this habit has carried on to the practice of those weapons in modern times. As an example, in Xing Yi Quan, most schools that teach spear-fighting only practice on the right side, although much of the rest of the art is ambidextrous in practice.\n\nIn professional sports car racing, drivers who participate in various events in both the United States and Europe will sometimes encounter machines with the steering wheel mounted on different sides of the car. While steering ability is largely unaffected, the hand used for shifting changes. This is further complicated by the fact that the shift pattern relative to the driver changes, e.g. a gear change that requires moving the lever toward the driver in a left-hand-drive vehicle becomes a movement away from the driver in a right-hand-drive vehicle. A driver skilled in shifting with the opposite hand is at an advantage.\n\nAlso notice that the more widely adopted left-foot braking technique in modern race cars requires a sensitive left foot to operate and a left-hand-driver with a more dominated left foot may brake better than those who brakes with right foot or whose left foot isn't dominated, this drastically shorten the time from maximum acceleration to maximum deceleration and left footer possesses a much greater advantages in racing.\n\nIn tennis, a player may be able to reach balls on the backhand side more easily if they're able to use the weaker hand. An example of a player who is ambidextrous is Luke Jensen. Rafael Nadal uses his right hand for writing, but plays tennis with left. There are many players who are naturally right handed but play lefty and vice versa. Evgenia Kulikovskaya is also an ambidextrous player, Kulikovskaya played with two forehands and no backhand, switching her racket hand depending on where the ball was coming. Jan-Michael Gambill is the opposite case of Kulikovskaya, since he played with a two handed forehand and backhand, although he served with his right hand. Other famous examples of a two handed forehand are Fabrice Santoro and Monica Seles. Seles' playing style was unusual in that she hit with two hands on both sides and, at the same time, always kept her (dominant) left hand at the base of her racket. This meant that she hit her forehand cross-handed. Currently, Maria Sharapova is also known to be ambidextrous. Cheong-eui Kim is a truly ambidextrous player with no backhand, and can serve left-handed as well as right-handed.\n\nAlthough it is quite uncommon, in badminton, ambidextrous players are able to switch the racquet between their hands, often to get to the awkward backhand corner quickly. As badminton can be a very fast sport, at professional levels of play, players might not have time to switch the racquet, as this disrupts their reaction time.\n\nWhile being able to kick both footed are beneficial, cross dominance do exist between hands and feet. Dan Carter is actually right handed, but kicks predominantly with his left, sometimes with his right. Johnny Wilkinson is left handed and left footed, but he has won the 2003 Rugby World Cup final with a right-footed drop kick.\n\nA volleyball player has to be ambidextrous to control the ball to either direction and performing basic digs. On the other hand, the setter has to be proficient in performing dump sets with either hand to throw off blockers. Wing spikers that can spike with either hand can alter trajectories to throw off receivers' timing.\n\nAlthough most artists have a favored hand, some artists use both of their hands for arts such as drawing and sculpturing. It is believed that Leonardo da Vinci utilized both of his hands after an injury to his right hand during his early childhood.\n\nA contemporary artist, Gur Keren, can draw with both his hands and even feet. Thea Alba was a well-known German who could write with all ten fingers.\n\nContemporary artist Daniel Joy Grimes, AKA \"Dani Joy\", draws with both hands at the same time during figure drawing sessions that are timed.When he paints he switches back and forth whenever a hand gets tired. \n\nTribalogy is the artistic study of creating abstract lines and shapes on a surface using both hands at the same time. An artist who studies tribalogy is referred to as a tribalogist.\n\nIn drum and bugle corps (and drum and bell corps), snare drummers, quads (tenors), and bass drummers need to be somewhat ambidextrous. Since they have to abide by what the composer/arranger has written, they have to learn to play their piece starting with either left or right.\nFormer Beatles member Paul McCartney is left-handed (guitar and bass guitar), and had his guitar altered (restrung) for performing (as can be seen in many photos and videos throughout his musical career). The drummer of The Beatles, Ringo Starr, is left-handed as well, but he plays a right-handed drum kit. American instrumental guitarist Michael Angelo Batio is known for being able to play both right-handed and left-handed guitar proficiently. Irish guitar player Niall Horan, from boyband One Direction, applies on this case. He writes with the left hand but plays the guitar with the right one.\nThe ambidexterity of Jimi Hendrix, perhaps the most widely acclaimed rock guitarist, has been explored in a psychology paper. Shara Lin is naturally left-handed, but plays the violin and guitar right handed. She can also play the piano with her left hand while playing the zither with her right. Kurt Cobain, from Nirvana, was naturally left-handed, but Donald Cobain, his father, forced him to write with his right handed. Kurt could wrote ambidextrous, but mostly wrote right-handed.\n\nWith respect to tools, ambidextrous may be used to mean that the tool may be used equally well with either hand; an \"ambidextrous knife\" refers to the opening mechanism and locking mechanism on a folding knife. It can also mean that the tool can be interchanged between left and right in some other way, such as an \"ambidextrous headset,\" which can be worn on either the left or right ear. As an opposite example, some scissors are made specifically for use in one hand, and will not cut properly if used in the other hand. Left-handed as well as ambidextrous scissors are nowadays available.\n\nIn knitting, the use of two needles, the knitter must learn to use both needles seamlessly. Several factors also lead to ambidexterity, the first one being if a person either favors their left hand over their right or if they learned to crochet before learning to knit. In that case, they either use the Continental method (yarn in left hand, work moving from left needle to right needle; sometimes called 'picking') or the English method (yarn held in right hand, work still moving from left to right needle; sometimes called 'throwing' and more common in the United States.) For colour work both methods can be used at the same time.\n\nMany modern small arms employ ambidextrous design to accommodate both the right- and left-handed operator. This is advantageous for marketing the firearm to military or law enforcement units because the firearms are distributed in a large scale. Ambidextrous firearms allows for an identical manual of arms regardless of which hand is being used as primary, which streamlines training (eliminates need to have separate training drill for left handed shooting).\n\nMany right-handed persons shoot rifles left-handed because they have a left dominant eye, and the opposite also applies. Generally, it is easier to adapt handedness than to retrain eye-gunsight tracking. Regardless, with training, eye dominance can be overridden. \n\n\"Old West\" gunfighter Dallas Stoudenmire carried two pistols, and was noted for being equally accurate with either hand.\n\nA degree of ambidexterity is required in surgery because surgeons must be able to tie with their left and right hands in either single or double knots. This is usually due to factors like the positioning of the surgeon, whether they have an assistant and the angle required to throw and secure the knot.\n\nAmbidexterity is also useful after surgery on a dominant hand or arm, as it allows the patient to use their non-dominant hand with equal facility as the limb which is recovering from surgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "5188587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5188587", "title": "Amir ibn Abd al-Qays", "text": "Amir ibn Abd al-Qays\n\nAmir ibn Abd al-Qays (d. ca. 661–680) was a \"tabi`i\" of Basra who died at Damascus, where he had become famous within the Muslim community for his austere and eloquent speeches. Numerous miracles are recorded of him; it is said that he lived in the desert where wild beasts came tamely to him. He was also known for his charity towards orphans. These and other aspects of his life are often cited by the Sufis.\n\nDuring the reign of the caliph Uthman (d. 656), the text of the Quran was standardized, and he despatched a \"qari\" along with each copy of the Quran to various cities, so as to demonstrate the correct reading to the people. Amir ibn Abd al-Qays was responsible for this important order in Basrah.\n"}
{"id": "850915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=850915", "title": "Anti-aging cream", "text": "Anti-aging cream\n\nAnti-aging creams are predominantly moisturiser-based cosmeceutical skin care products marketed with the promise of making the consumer look younger by reducing, masking or preventing signs of skin aging. These signs are laxity (sagging), rhytids (wrinkles), and photoaging, which includes erythema (redness), dyspigmentation (brown discolorations), solar elastosis (yellowing), keratoses (abnormal growths), and poor texture.\n\nDespite great demand, many anti-aging products and treatments have not been proven to give lasting or major positive effects. One study found that the best performing creams reduced wrinkles by less than 10% over 12 weeks, which is not noticeable to the human eye. Another study found that cheap moisturisers were as effective as high-priced anti-wrinkle creams. A 2009 study at Manchester University showed that some ingredients had an effect.\n\nTraditionally, anti-aging creams have been marketed towards women, but products specifically targeting men are increasingly common.\n\nAnti-aging creams may include conventional moisturising ingredients. They also usually contain specific anti-aging ingredients, such as:\n"}
{"id": "42394652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42394652", "title": "Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation", "text": "Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation\n\nThe Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation was a self-governing student organization, representing multiple Beijing universities, and acting as the student protesters' principle decision-making body during the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Student protesters founded the Federation in opposition to the official, government-supported student organizations, which they believed were undemocratic. Although the Federation made several demands of the government during the protests and organized multiple demonstrations in the Square, its primary focus was to obtain government recognition as a legitimate organization. By seeking this recognition, the Federation directly challenged the Chinese Communist Party's authority. After failing to achieve direct dialogue with the government, the Federation lost support from student protesters, and its central leadership role within the Tiananmen Square protests.\n\nAfter former General Secretary Hu Yaobang's death on April 15, students mobilized spontaneously both to mourn Hu's passing and to demand democratic reform in China. On April 19, at Peking University (Beida), a meeting was anonymously organized to discuss the ongoing protests in the Square, as well as the prospect of forming an autonomous student organization. The meeting, in essence, was a \"democracy salon\"—an unofficial student discussion group that students at Beida had founded by the former Beida physics graduate student Liu Gang months before Hu Yaobang's death. The salon decided that an autonomous organization was necessary to coordinate student protesters on multiple Beijing campuses. However, for fear of punishment by the government, few at the meeting were willing to speak out. Those who did, including history student Wang Dan, became the leaders of the newly formed Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation.\n\nAnother aim of the new Federation was the rejection of the official student organizations. According to one student announcement, \"the leadership of the original union is inept, has sold out the students' interests…and is completely unable to represent the students' wishes.\" In this way, the student protesters saw the Federation as representing the wishes of the entire student body. The Federation planned to seek legitimacy by strict observance of democratic policies such as elections and group decision-making. The students hoped these methods would ensure the organization's unity of leadership, and would effectively contrast with the lack of transparency they perceived in the Communist Party. On May 23, the Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation established officially at Liu Gang's residence near Yuanmingyuan, during the first meeting, the students had elected Zhou Yongjun as the first chairman of the Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation.\n\nOn April 26, \"People's Daily\" published the editorial \"It is Necessary to Take a Clear-Cut Stand Against Turmoil\", attributing the protests to \"a small minority\" attempting to \"poison people's minds\" and \"create national turmoil.\" On the same day, the Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation was officially established. At their meeting, around 2,000 students elected a seven-person committee to lead the Federation. Concerned by the April 26 editorial, the Federation decided that, as an illegal organization, it needed to reinforce its legitimacy by showing its popular support. To achieve this goal, the Federation organized a demonstration to take place on April 27.\n\nBetween April 16 and 26, the government had dismissed the autonomous students' demands for recognition and dialogue. The government, unwilling to accept the legitimacy of the independent student unions, had attempted instead to arrange talks with individual student leaders. Although the student protesters believed they were acting patriotically and morally, the Communist leadership saw the students' demands as a threat to political and social order. As a result, the students had difficulty obtaining their goal of direct dialogue with the government.\n\nAfter the April 27 student demonstrations, the government held its first dialogue with the Federation leaders on April 29. However, the government avoided direct contact with the Federation, instead inviting student leaders to meet on an individual basis. While some students saw the government's offer as a victory, others felt that they should only attend the dialogue as recognized representatives of the Federation. Wuer Kaixi, a Federation leader, attended the dialogue as a \"private individual\", but decided to leave midway through to protest the government's lack of recognition of the Federation. Dissatisfied with the dialogue, Wuer Kaixi later described it as a \"trick of the government to destroy the student solidarity.\" During the meeting, State Council spokesman Yuan Mu insisted that the Communist Party and the student protesters shared the same goals.\n\nOn May 1, the Federation rejected the legitimacy of the April 29 dialogue in a news conference. The following day, the Federation presented a twelve-point petition, including a demand that future government efforts at dialogue be sincere. Although the government rejected this petition, the petition represented a compromise on the students' part, as Amnesty International researcher Corinna-Barbara Francis suggests. That is, instead of demanding explicit government recognition, the students only asked for dialogue \"on the basis of full equality between the two parties.\" By May 29, the students' demands were reduced to two: denunciation of the April 26 editorial by the government and acknowledgement of the federation's democratic nature.\n\nOn May 4, the Federation successfully organized a demonstration of over 100,000 protesters in Tiananmen Square, marking the 70-year anniversary of the 1919 May 4 Movement. Also on May 4, the Federation decided to end the boycott on class attendance it had begun on April 24. This sudden and unexpected end to the boycott, and loss of momentum in student-government negotiations, resulted in a loss of student enthusiasm for the protests. As student leader Chai Ling noted \"the movement dwindled to a low point as more and more students returned to classes.\" In an attempt to reinvigorate the movement, Chai Ling and other students started a hunger strike on the Square. Although the Federation initially opposed the hunger strikers during its May 12 meeting, it eventually decided to support individual strikers, but avoided official endorsement of the Hunger Strike Group. As the protests continued throughout May and into June, the Hunger Strike Group would take control of events in the Square, and would largely displace the authority previously held by the Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation.\n\nSpeaking with Party General Secretary Zhao Ziyang on May 4, Premier Li Peng voiced his concern over the ongoing protests in the Square. While Zhao Ziyang contended that the April 26 editorial had encouraged student protesters, Li Peng contended that this was too simple an explanation for the growth of the protest movement, suggesting that the April 26 editorial \"did not accuse the vast majority of students of creating turmoil.\" Li Peng also opposed to the student protester's demands for negotiation. Voicing concern over the rising prominence of the \"illegal student organizations,\" Li objected to the Federation's desire \"to negotiate with the Party and government as equals\" and saw the students' twelve-point petition as a \"threat.\" In his conversation with Zhao, Li also asserted that the Federation's primary goal was to \"negate the leadership of the CCP and negate the entire socialist system.\"\n\nOn May 13, after the hunger striker's announced their plan, Yan Mingfu, Director of the Party's United Front Work Department, met with a number of intellectuals and student protesters, including Wang Dan, Chai Ling, and Wuer Kaixi. At the meeting, Yan Mingfu suggested that if the student protesters stopped their hunger strike and instead submitted their \"demands and suggestions through proper channels,\" he could assure them that \"the door to dialogue\" would remain open. However, when he later briefed Zhao Ziyang on the meeting, Yan Mingfu shared his unease at the divisions he observed among the student protesters: \"the AFS [the Federation], the Dialogue Delegation, and representatives of the hunger strikers…are in disagreement among themselves…I'm not sure any of them truly represents the hunger strikers or can exert any influence on them.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2022911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2022911", "title": "Bionic Six", "text": "Bionic Six\n\nBionic Six is an American-Japanese animated television series that aired from 1987 to 1989. It was produced by TMS Entertainment and distributed, through first-run syndication, by MCA TV, years before the latter company became NBCUniversal Television Distribution. Renowned Japanese animation director Osamu Dezaki was involved as chief supervising director, and his distinctive style (as seen in \"Golgo 13\" and \"Cobra\") is evident throughout all its episodes.\n\nThe title characters of the series are a family of machine-enhanced human beings possessing unique powers after being augmented with bionic technology. Each family member is given specific bionic powers, and thus they form a superhero team called the Bionic Six.\n\nIn the near future (some unspecified decades after 1999), Professor Dr. Amadeus Sharp Ph.D., head of the Special Projects Labs (SPL), creates a new form of technology to augment humans through bionics. His first subject was Jack Bennett, a test pilot who secretly acted as Sharp's field agent, Bionic-1. On a family ski vacation in the Himalayas, an alien spacecraft triggers an avalanche that buries the entire family, exposing them to the unusual radiation of a mysterious buried object. Jack frees himself but discovers his family in a comatose state. Theorizing that Jack's bionics protected him from the radiation, Professor Sharp implants bionic technology in the others, awakening them. Afterward, the family operates incognito as a publicly lauded team of adventuring superheroes, the Bionic Six.\n\nThe primary antagonist of the series is a mad scientist known as Doctor Scarab, along with his gang of henchmenGlove, Madam-O, Chopper, Mechanic, and Klunkaccompanied by Scarab's legion of drone robots called Cyphrons. Scarab is Professor Sharp's brother. Obsessed with obtaining immortality and ruling the world, Scarab believes that the key to both goals lies in the secret bionic technology invented by his brother, ever plotting to possess it.\n\n\nThe Bennett family includes patriarch Jack, matriarch Helen, Eric, Meg, J.D., and Bunji. They live in a secluded oceanfront home in the fictional city of Cypress Cove, in northern California. Each member wears a special ring and a \"wristcomp\" (a mini-computer hardwired into the wrist), which they use to activate their bionic powers. The Bionic Six can also combine their powers by joining hands, creating a \"Bionic Link\" to amplify their abilities.\n\n\nThe primary antagonist of the series is Dr. Scarabreal name Dr. Wilmer Sharp Ph.D., who is Amadeus Sharp's brother. Scarab is a hefty, egotistically brilliant and occasionally comical man who yearns for the secret to eternal life and world domination. His right eye has been modified with a monocle that has a low-powered scanner that can detect individuals with bionics, even when they are disguised, and a destructive, high-powered beam. In rare instances throughout the series, he seemingly demonstrates superhuman, bionic strength of his own (on at least one occasion, he picked up Mother-One effortlessly and threw her around; in another instance, he was seen carrying as much solid gold out of Fort Knox as his other bionic minionsseveral hundred pounds' worth.)He was voiced by Jim MacGeorge, who imitated the voice of George C. Scott when providing that character voice.\n\nDr. Scarab has assembled a motley team of henchmen (described below), imbued with an apparently lesser form of the same bionic powers employed by the Bionic Six. (Another one of Scarab's goals in the series is to try to figure out the secrets behind his brother's superior bionics knowledge.)\n\n\nDr. Scarab has tried to create additional minions with limited success, usually due to envying interference from his existing henchmen. Some of these include:\n\n\nWhere covert action is called for, Scarab and his gang go disguised via their \"Bionic Masking Units.\" To disengage these electronically imparted disguises, they slam their fists to their chest insignias and exclaim, \"Hail Scarab!\" (Scarab, however, vainly exclaims, \"Hail me!\"). Doing so serves a secondary purpose the activation of a temporary strength enhancement.\n\nIn addition to his henchmen, Scarab also uses robots of his own design, called Cyphrons, in battles against the Bionic Six. The Cyphrons are, like the rest of his minions, generally incompetent but dangerous in large numbers. Attempts by Scarab to create more advanced Cyphron units are shown to backfire.\n\n\"Bionic Six\" episodes also featured a number of recurring, supporting characters.\n\n\n\nThe first season of Bionic Six introduces viewers to the Bennett family, and to Scarab and his goons. Karate-1's origin is explored, and the mystery of his missing father is introduced. The origin of both the Bionic Six and of Scarab and his lackeys is revealed early on in the 22-episode run. The supporting characters of Dr. Fish and Perceptor are also introduced.\n\nThe second season continues on from the first seamlessly. Old supporting characters like Perceptor and Dr. Fish return, and new characters, such as the Bandroids are brought aboard. The second season includes a two-part episode titled \"I, Scarab,\" wherein Professor Sharp assembles a second Bionic Six group to rescue the original team. This second team is made up of supporting characters from prior episodes: Kaleidoscope, Perceptor, and the Bandroids.\n\nThe series finale finds several of the members from the Bionic Six trapped for a time in a dimension where the \"cartoon characters\" (with an animation style highly reminiscent of Tiny Toons and Animaniacs, an animated series TMS would, during this time, soon work on) of their favorite TV shows exist; after I.Q., Rock-One and Karate-One escape, I.Q notes that in the cartoon dimension, the characters were unaware that they were imaginary characters; he then wonders if it is at all possible that he and everyone else in the \"real\" world are cartoon characters themselves. His family dismisses his thoughts as meaningless babbleas a bunch of characters from the cartoon dimension walk outside the Bennett family's residence and break the fourth wall as the episode fades out.\n\nProduced by LJN in 1986, the line consisted of 13 figures (Jack, Helen, J.D., Eric, Meg, Bunji, F.L.U.F.F.I., Doctor Scarab, Glove, Mechanic, Madame-O, Chopper, and Klunk), five vehicles and one playset. These figures and vehicles were made up of plastic and die-cast metal with some of the figures having\ntransparent limbs. The 13 figures were designed and copyrighted by Paul Samulski on behalf of LJN.\nF.L.U.F.F.I. the robot ape was difficult to find early in the show's release, but became easier to come by later as the line lost popularity. Today, the line remains moderately collectible with the playset and vehicles being the hardest to come across.\n\nGrosset & Dunlap Publishing produced the \"Bionic Six Super Picture Book,\" a collection of color and black & white pin-ups of the Bionic Six, Dr. Sharp, F.L.U.F.F.I., and Scarab's team. The books's art was supplied by Vince Perez and Lisa Santangelo.\n\nA \"Bionic Six\" comic book (illustration credited to \"Espinoza & Hooper\" <nowiki>[sic]</nowiki>) advertised mid-1988 for forthcoming release by independent publisher New Comics Group never materialized.\n\n"}
{"id": "51223392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51223392", "title": "Brachymeiosis", "text": "Brachymeiosis\n\nBrachymeiosis was a hypothesized irregularity in the sexual reproduction of ascomycete fungi, a variant of meiosis following an \"extra\" karyogamy (nuclear fusion) step. The hypothesized process would have transformed four diploid nuclei into eight haploid ones. The current scientific consensus is that brachymeiosis does not occur in any fungi.\n\nAccording to the current understanding, ascomycetes reproduce by forming male and female organs (antheridia/spermatia and ascogonia), transferring haploid nuclei from the antheridium to the ascogonium, and growing a dikaryotic ascus containing both nuclei. Karyogamy then occurs in the ascus to form a diploid nucleus, followed by meiosis and mitosis to form eight haploid nuclei in the ascospores. In 1895, the botanist R.A. Harper reported the observation of a second karyogamy event in the ascogonium prior to ascogeny. This would imply the creation of a tetraploid nucleus in the ascus, rather than a diploid one; in order to produce the observed haploid ascospores, a second meiotic reduction in chromosome count would then be necessary. The second reduction was hypothesized to occur during the second or third mitotic division in the ascus, even though chromosome reduction does not typically occur during mitosis. This supposed form of meiosis was termed “brachymeiosis” in 1908 by H. C. I. Fraser.\n\nThe existence of brachymeiosis was controversial throughout the first half of the twentieth century, with many conflicting results published. Then, research with improved staining techniques established clearly that only one reductive division occurs in the asci of all examined species, including some which had been believed to undergo brachymeiosis. As a result of these studies, the theories of double fusion and subsequent brachymeiosis were discarded around 1950.\n"}
{"id": "56620865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56620865", "title": "Buttington Oak", "text": "Buttington Oak\n\nThe Buttington Oak was a tree near to Offa's Dyke at Buttington, Wales, said to have been planted to mark the site of the Battle of Buttington between the Vikings and a Mercian, Wessex and Welsh force in 893. It had been pollarded for timber at some point in its history. The oak tree was rediscovered in 2009. It was badly damaged by storms in 2017 and fell in February 2018.\n\nThe oak was said to have been planted by locals to mark the 893 Battle of Buttington, a victory of an allied Mercian, Wessex and Welsh force against invading Vikings or as a boundary marker on Offa's Dyke. The tree was located near Welshpool and close to the dyke, an 8th-century earthwork that marked the border between Mercia and the Kingdom of Powys. The tree stood in fields on a flood plain to the north of Buttington and east of the River Severn and was accessible by a public footpath (approximately half a mile's walk from the A458 road). The oak was a working tree, being pollarded, to provide timber for the local community and may have been used to fashion weapons.\n\nThe Buttington Oak was not rediscovered until 2009 and was not protected by any legislation. At around in girth the oak was the largest tree on the dyke and the second-largest oak in Wales. The Woodland Trust described it as \"an iconic feature of the landscape\".\n\nThe Buttington Oak was badly damaged by storms in 2017 which caused it to split in two. The tree fell in February 2018, an event first noticed by the same man who recorded it in 2009. The tree was estimated to be more than one thousand years old when it died. \n"}
{"id": "25512598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25512598", "title": "Carl Baker (boxer)", "text": "Carl Baker (boxer)\n\nCarl Baker (born 3 January 1982) is a British former professional boxer who competed from 2003 to 2014.\n\nBaker made his professional debut on 6 September 2003, stopping Dave Clarke in the first round. The highlight of Baker's career was competing in the heavyweight edition of the Prizefighter series on 2 October 2009. He entered the tournament as an outsider, but defeated one of the favourites—Danny Williams—by unanimous decision (UD) in the opening round, while also scoring two knockdowns against Williams in the first round of their fight. In the semi-final, Baker was eliminated after losing a UD to Coleman Barrett.\n"}
{"id": "14231674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14231674", "title": "Castulus", "text": "Castulus\n\nSaint Castulus (died 286) is venerated as a martyr. According to tradition, he was the chamberlain (or officer, valet) of Emperor Diocletian and the husband of Irene of Rome, also venerated as a saint.\n\nA convert to the Christian religion, he sheltered Christians in his home and arranged for religious services inside the palace of the emperor. Among those he sheltered were Mark and Marcellian. He is one of the saints associated with the life and legend of Saint Sebastian.\n\nWith his friend Saint Tiburtius, he converted many men and woman to Christianity and brought them to Pope Saint Caius to be baptized. He was betrayed by an apostate named Torquatus and taken before Fabian, prefect of the city. \n\nCastulus was tortured and executed by being buried alive in a sand pit on the Via Labicana. According to tradition, Irene subsequently buried the body of the martyred Sebastian. She was later martyred herself, around 288 AD.\n\nA church dedicated to him at Rome, built on the site of his martyrdom, existed from at least the seventh century.\n\nCastulus was venerated in Bavaria after relics of his were taken to Moosburg. Duke Heinrich der Löwe started the construction of the Kastulus Minster (cathedral) in 1171.\n\nIn 1604, relics were also brought to Landshut. His relics still rest in Landshut's church of St. Martin's and Kostel Sv. Haštala (Church of St.Castulus), Prague.\n\nIrene of Rome was the widow of the martyr St. Castulus. After the death of her husband, she continued to be active in the Christian community in Rome. According to legend, when Saint Sebastian was discovered to be a Christian, in 286, he was handed over to the Mauretanian archers, who tied him to a tree and pierced him with arrows. \n\nHowever, Irene came to bury the body and found that he was still clinging to life. Irene took him to her lodgings and nursed him back to health. Irene is venerated by Christians for her virtuous care in attending the injured. \n\nHer feast day is March 30.\n\nIrene tending Sebastian was the subject of paintings by Benedetto Luti and others. \n\n"}
{"id": "5637418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5637418", "title": "Chimera (virus)", "text": "Chimera (virus)\n\nA chimera virus is defined by the Center for Veterinary Biologics (part of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service) as a \"new hybrid microorganism created by joining nucleic acid fragments from two or more different microorganisms in which each of at least two of the fragments contain essential genes necessary for replication.\" The term \"chimera\" already referred to an individual organism whose body contained cell populations from different zygotes or an organism that developed from portions of different embryos. In mythology, a chimera is a creature such as a hippogriff or a gryphon formed from parts of different animals, thus the name for these viruses. Chimeric flaviviruses have been created in an attempt to make novel live attenuated vaccines.\n\nCombining two pathogenic viruses increases the lethality of the new virus which is why there have been cases where chimeric viruses have been considered for use as a bioweapon. For example, the Soviet Union's Chimera Project attempted to combine DNA from Venezuelan equine encephalitis, smallpox and Ebola virus in the late 1980's. A combination smallpox and monkeypox virus has also been studied.\n\nStudies have shown that chimeric viruses can also be developed to have medical benefits. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recently approved the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to treat relapsed non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. By introducing a chimeric antigen receptor into T cells, the T cells become more efficient at identifying and attacking the tumor cells. Studies are also in progress to create a chimeric vaccine against four types of Dengue virus, however this has not been successful yet .\n"}
{"id": "1042082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1042082", "title": "Dragons (Pern)", "text": "Dragons (Pern)\n\nThe Dragons of Pern are a fictional race created by Anne McCaffrey as an integral part of the science fiction world depicted in her Dragonriders of Pern novels.\n\nIn creating the Pern setting, McCaffrey set out to subvert the clichés associated with dragons in European folklore and in modern fantasy fiction. Pernese dragons are similar to traditional European dragons in the fact that they can breathe fire and resemble great lizards or dinosaurs with wings, but the resemblance ends there. Unlike most dragons in previous Western literature, Pernese dragons are entirely friendly to humanity. Furthermore, they are not magical at all. Instead, they are a heavily genetically modified species based on one of Pern's native life-forms, the fire-lizard.\n\nIn Dragonsdawn, the race was intentionally engineered to fight Thread, a deadly mycorrhizoid spore that devours all organic matter that it touches, after it first caught the human colonists on Pern unawares, with devastating results. Geneticist Kitti Ping Yung designed the dragons by manipulating the genetic code of the indigenous fire-lizards that had been acquired as pets by the colonists. The dragons were named after their resemblance to European dragons from the legends of old Earth. Later genetic manipulation by Ping's granddaughter, Wind Blossom, also resulted in the watch-whers, ungainly, nocturnal creatures who bore a slight resemblance to dragons. The later novels, set during the Third Pass, have shown the watch-whers are more useful than commonly thought in the novels set in the First Pass. On Pern, time is measured in \"Turns\", or years, and \"Passes\", which are about fifty Turns long, and occur when a planet named the \"Red Star\" is close enough to Pern for Thread to traverse space between the Red Star and Pern. Thread only falls during Passes. Periods between Passes, when the Red Star's orbit takes it away from Pern, are referred to as \"Intervals\"; usually lasting about two hundred Turns. In the novels, \"Long Intervals\", of about four hundred and fifty Turns, have occurred twice. These Long Intervals have led the inhabitants of Pern to believe that Thread will never return.\n\nDragons are described as carnivorous, oviparous, warm-blooded creatures. Like all of Pern's native large fauna, they have six limbs – four feet and two wings. Their blood, referred to as ichor, is copper-based and green in color. Their head and general body type is described by McCaffrey as being similar in shape to those of horses. On their heads they have small headknobs, similar to those of giraffes, and no visible ears. They have multifaceted eyes that change color depending on the dragon's mood. Unlike the dragons of Terran legend, they have a smooth hide rather than scales; the texture of their skin is described as being reminiscent of suede with a spicy, sweet scent when clean. They are described as having forked tail ends with a defecation opening between the forks; however, most artistic renderings depict their tails as having spade-shaped tips. The dragons usually get from one place to another by utilizing a teleportation process known as \"going \"between\"\".\n\nKitti Ping designed the dragons to gradually increase in size with each generation until they reached pre-programmed final dimensions. The dragons of the first Hatchings were not much bigger than horses. By the Sixth Pass (1500 years later) they had reached their programmed size and remained at that size until a single isolated dragon population suffered severe inbreeding, resulting in much larger beasts. In the Ninth Pass, in which most of the novels have been set, the largest Pernese dragon on record, Ramoth, hatched. According to the novel \"All the Weyrs of Pern\" these dragons were roughly three times the size of the largest first-generation dragons. Ramoth's great size is often attributed to mutation and the genetic isolation of Benden Weyr for over 400 years (or Turns). Ramoth, at full length, was forty-five meters long. In \"All the Weyrs of Pern\", AIVAS, an artificial intelligence still in operation after all this time, notes that all of the primary Benden dragons, Ramoth, Mnementh and Canth, are notably larger than Kitti Ping's specified end-size of the dragon species. Newly hatched dragons are the size of very large dogs or small ponies, and reach their full size after eighteen months. Because young dragons grow so fast, their riders must regularly apply oil to their hides to prevent the skin from cracking or drying out.\n\nDragons, like their fire-lizard ancestors, can breathe fire by chewing a phosphine-bearing rock, called \"firestone\" in the novels, which reacts with an acid in a special \"second stomach\" organ. This forms a volatile gas that can be exhaled at will and ignites upon contact with air. The flame is used to burn Thread from the sky before it reaches the ground. However, the chewed firestone must be expelled from the body after it is used up, for the dragons cannot digest it.\n\nDespite their relatively low intelligence, fire-lizards communicate through a form of weak telepathy. They also imprint on the first individual who feeds them after they hatch, creating a telepathic bond with them; the Pernese call this phenomenon \"Impression\". In creating dragons, Kitti Ping intensified the creatures' telepathy, greatly increased their intelligence, and gave them a strong instinctive drive to Impress to a human. Upon hatching, each dragonet chooses one of the humans present (usually) and Impresses to that person; from that moment on, the pair are in a constant state of telepathic contact for as long as they both live. Dragons also use telepathy to communicate with each other and with fire-lizards. They are capable of speaking telepathically to humans besides their own riders, but not all of them will do so except under unusual circumstances.\n\nDragons and fire-lizards can also teleport. They do this by briefly entering a hyperspace dimension known as \"between\". Both humans and dragons experience \"between\" as an extremely cold, sensory-deprived, black void. After spending no more than eight seconds in \"between\", the dragon or fire-lizard can re-emerge anywhere on Pern, along with any passengers or cargo they carried. This ability is explained as having evolved in fire-lizards as a defense against Thread; not only does it allow them to quickly escape from Threadfall, but the intense cold of \"between\" kills any Thread that has already burrowed into them. If a dragon attempts to teleport without a clear mental image of the place where they intend to reappear, they may simply fail to emerge from \"between\" and thus, be gone forever.\n\nGoing \"between\" allows dragons to travel through time as well as space, as long as they have a clear picture of what a particular place looked like (or will look like) at the desired time. However, the practice is highly dangerous to both dragon and rider and is severely restricted. Existing in two places at once for extended periods of time, or in close proximity, causes severe weakness and psychological disturbance for humans but not for dragons, the effects of which are discussed in several novels. In addition, while teleporting through space always takes the same amount of time, when a dragon travels through time, the amount of time they spend in \"between\" increases depending on how far away in time the destination is. Thus, traveling to remote times poses severe dangers from hypothermia and oxygen deprivation. In the first Pern novel, Dragonflight, Lessa passes out after having travelled back more than four hundred Turns.\n\n\"The Dragonlover's Guide to Pern\" states that dragons defecate while \"between\". This idea originated with a statement by Anne McCaffrey herself, in answer to a fan's question about the subject at a con. However, McCaffrey may have been joking when she first said this. As the idea has never been referenced in any of the Pern novels (in fact, defecation was mentioned only a few times in all of the books ever written in the Pern series), it cannot be considered definitively canonical. It should be noted that \"The Skies of Pern\" references the use of dragon dung as a repellent against the large felines inhabiting the southern continent.\n\nDragons are also capable of telekinesis, though this ability is unknown and used in an unconscious manner (to augment flight) until it is discovered as a conscious ability by the green dragon Zaranth and her rider Tai in the Thirty-first Turn of the Ninth Pass. It is speculated that the undersized wings were intentionally created in the dragons by Kitti Ping to reduce the surface area of a dragon that is exposed to possible Thread injury, and that the telekinetic abilities were intended to make up for the loss of wingsail. It is said in many books that a dragon can carry whatever it thinks it can carry. This is likely an extension of the telekinesis, mentally \"lifting\" the extra load. This is the most likely explanation for the great loads that dragons sometimes carry during emergencies.\n\nUnlike their fire-lizard ancestors, dragons are fully sapient. They communicate fluently in human language (although only telepathically), and have personalities and opinions distinct from those of their riders. However, their intelligence does seem to be somewhat lower than that of the average human. In particular, their long-term memory is severely limited.\n\nDragons' telepathic communication is usually limited to contact with their rider and with other dragons, however a dragon sometimes communicates well with a person with whom their rider has close emotional ties. They do understand spoken human language and occasionally reply telepathically to people whom they choose to speak.\n\nAs a safeguard against the possible damage that could be caused by such powerful creatures, Ping engineered dragons to be profoundly psychologically dependent on their riders. Any dragonet that fails to Impress to a human shortly after hatching will die. If a dragon's rider dies, the dragon immediately suicides by going \"between\" without a destination. The only exception is when the rider of a queen dragon dies while the queen is gravid; the dragon waits just long enough to lay her eggs and see them hatch before disappearing \"between\". (Humans who lose their dragons typically commit suicide as well. However, some do survive, although the experience leaves profound psychological trauma.)\n\nPing also designed the dragons to be fairly calm in temperament. They never fight one another, unless two queens come into estrus at the same time. They are also not dangerous to humans except shortly after hatching, when it is common for confused and frightened dragonets to maul or even kill humans hoping to Impress.\n\nWhen a dragon hatches, they announce their names to their new riders upon Impression. Pernese dragons' names always end in -th. A watch-wher's name will end in \"sk\".\n\nOn canon Pern, barring rare mutations, female dragons and fire-lizards are always either green or gold in color, while males are blue, brown or bronze.\n\n\nThe larger a color is, the less common it is. For instance, there are more blues than browns, and there are more browns than bronzes. Half the dragon population is female, with green dragons being roughly fifty percent of the population and golds being one percent or slightly less.\n\nRiding a larger color of dragon confers higher social status in Pern's extremely hierarchical society, color rankings following the dragons' own strict instinctual hierarchical organization based on fire-lizard structures. Perhaps as a result of this, it is commonly believed that the larger colors are more intelligent, although recent novels imply that this may not be true.\n\nThe Pernese believe that chewing firestone makes female dragons sterile; they therefore refuse to allow queens to use it. Greens, on the other hand, are so common that if they produced offspring it would quickly lead to overpopulation. They always chew firestone, and because of their numbers and agility they are vital to any Thread-fighting force. However, \"Dragonsdawn\" suggests that Kitti Ping—possibly motivated by old-fashioned ideas about gender roles—deliberately engineered greens to be infertile and gold dragons to be incapable of producing flame in order to protect the gold dragons, the only reproductively fertile females, from the dangers of Thread fighting.\n\nBoth gold and green dragons experience a periodic mating urge. During a Pass a gold dragon will rise roughly once per Turn, and more often at the beginning of a Pass, yet less often towards the end of a Pass. During an Interval a gold dragon may rise to mate only once every four or five Turns. Greens will rise to mate three or four times a Turn, whether this increases or decreases depending on whether or not it is a Pass is unknown. Greens will mate with any male, usually blues or browns. As they are smaller and have less stamina, a green mating flight is much shorter than a gold one.\n\nWhen a female comes into estrus, interested males compete to catch her in a mating flight. Usually, the female chooses the male who impresses her the most with his skill in the flight, although inexperienced females may be caught before making their choice. The pair actually mate in midair; thus, the higher they get during the flight, the longer their mating can last. The Pernese commonly believe that longer matings result in larger clutches. For this reason, queen riders are strongly encouraged to restrain their dragons from eating heavily just before a flight, instructing them to drink blood instead for a quick burst of energy.\n\nDue to the intense psychic bond between rider and dragon, dragonriders are overcome by the powerful emotions and sensations associated with mating flights. The riders of the mating pair engage in sex themselves, to varying degrees unaware of what they are doing. This contributes to a much looser attitude toward sexuality in general among dragonriders than in the rest of Pernese society.\n\nFor much of Pern's history, all green riders were male. During these periods, all green mating flights resulted in homosexual intercourse between the riders of the dragons involved. This homosexual intercourse is accepted in the Weyr as being separate from the rider's sexual orientation unless the rider has shown otherwise. Mating flight sex between two riders, one of whom is not the other's chosen partner (known as a weyrmate) is not considered to be \"cheating\". It is understood within the Weyr that sex during mating flights is not optional for the rider. Anne McCaffrey stated that \"The dragon decides, the rider complies.\" Dragons do not usually consider the orientation of their riders when considering what female they wish to chase, or, for a female dragon, what male dragon might catch her. A primary example of this behavior is between Weyrleader T'gellan, Weyrwoman Talina, and green rider Mirrim. T'gellan and Mirrim are weyrmates, but T'gellan's bronze dragon must mate with Weyrwoman Talina's gold dragon at least yearly in order for T'gellan to maintain his position as Weyrleader. Mirrim, known to be an extremely acerbic and temperamental rider, shows no jealousy or other problem with her weyrmate's regular sexual contact with Talina.\n\nBoth green and gold dragons broadcast their sexual feelings on a wide band during mating flights. Weyrfolk tend to become somewhat inured to this and therefore can hold their sexual reactions until an appropriate place and time. However, flights are usually not over the Weyr itself and sometimes the flight path of the mating flight brings the mating dragons over Holds or Farmholds where the average people occasionally find themselves engaged in unexpected activities. This is especially common among young teens working out in the fields who react to the sudden, unexpected and overwhelming urges with potentially embarrassing results.\n\nRiders of the losing dragons usually seek sexual relief after the intense flight; if they do not have a chosen partner they may seek the comfort of any willing and available partner of their sexual orientation. The weyrfolk tend to happily accommodate these riders, especially if they have been affected by the flight's sexual urgency. This is one of the major reasons for the Weyr's reputation for being sexually very open.\n\nAnne McCaffrey has stated in a number of documents and interviews that dragonets use pheromones to determine the sexual orientation of the humans to whom they Impress. According to these statements, greens Impress only to women or to \"effeminate\" homosexual men. Blues Impress primarily to homosexual or bisexual men with \"masculine\" temperaments, or possibly to masculine or lesbian women; browns similarly Impress primarily to heterosexual men, but sometimes to bisexual men. Bronzes and golds Impress exclusively to heterosexual men and heterosexual women, respectively.\n\nHowever, these ideas have never been made explicit in the books (although it is clear, at least, that most male green- and blue riders are homosexual). Many members of online Pern fandom find McCaffrey's ideas about sexuality highly questionable for a number of reasons, both scientific and ethical. (Most infamously, she claimed in an interview that science has proven that being the receptive partner in anal sex triggers a hormonal change that will make a previously heterosexual man become homosexual and effeminate. Thus, she argues, even if a male green rider were originally heterosexual, he would not stay that way.) In later interviews McCaffrey claims that green dragons merely pick up on psychological clues from homosexual boys before they themselves know that they are homosexual. \"A green Hatchling is unlikely to be impressed (pun intended) by a heterosexual boy.\" - Anne McCaffrey 1998 on The Kitchen Table BB.\n\nPern-based roleplaying games thus sometimes ignore McCaffrey's restrictions on who can Impress to a given color of dragon. MUDs and fanzine-based clubs often ignore everything except the basic rule that only women Impress gold and only men Impress bronze; PBEM games are more likely to accept the restrictions on sexual orientation. Most clubs post their policy on canon strictness. While some accept more liberal thoughts on color/gender/sexual orientation matches, many are very strict on this issue.\n\nFor the purposes of roleplaying games, McCaffrey has also officially allowed females (masculine lesbians) to ride browns or blues, though she insists that this could never happen on \"her\" (canon) Pern.\n\nAlso in fandom, if a rider has strong objections to sex with someone involved in a mating flight or the writer has objections to writing a homosexual encounter or object to their character being involved in a sexual encounter with a person other than their \"significant other,\" they may sequester themselves with a more acceptable partner during the flight. This idea is called \"Stand-Ins\" and based on a concept McCaffrey introduced in Dragonseye/Red Star Rising, in which a female green rider objects to the idea of a specific bronze rider winning her green's mating flight. However, this concept is not seen in other books and clearly does not exist in the Ninth Pass, as several problems arise regarding green and gold riders who object to the random nature of mating flights and end up raped by the male winner of the flight (most notably in Skies of Pern).\n\nAs the primary line of defense against the Thread, dragons are a requirement for the survival and prosperity of humans, not to mention other forms of land life, on Pern. However, the great beasts require a good deal of maintenance, to the degree of requiring a large part of Pernese infrastructure—especially cattle farming—to be centered around their upkeep. This has been known to cause resentment among those doing the supporting, especially at times when Thread is not falling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33932560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33932560", "title": "Effectiveness of torture for interrogation", "text": "Effectiveness of torture for interrogation\n\nTorture has been used throughout history for the purpose of obtaining information in interrogation. Torture, while widely illegal and a violation of international law, has been frequently cited as generating false or misleading information, and lacks scientific evidence supporting its effectiveness. The counterargument points to some specific cases where torture has elicited true information.\n\nOne early writer on the ineffectiveness of torture was Friedrich Spee (1591-1635). Spee was a German Jesuit priest, professor, and poet, most noted as an opponent of trials for witchcraft. Spee was the first person in his time to present strong written and spoken arguments against torture, especially with regards to its unreliability in obtaining \"truth\" from someone undergoing painful questioning. It was found that subjects would make up stories if it meant the torture would cease.\n\nAfter the dropping of the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II, the Japanese military tortured a captured American P-51 fighter pilot, Marcus McDilda, in order to discover how many atomic bombs the Allies had and what the future targets were. McDilda, who knew nothing about the atomic bomb nor the Manhattan Project, \"confessed\" under torture that the U.S. had 100 atomic bombs and that Tokyo and Kyoto were the next targets. McDilda's false confession may have swayed the Japanese leaders' decision to surrender.\n\nChinese interrogators tortured U.S. Air Force prisoners of war during the Korean War with the specific goal of eliciting false confessions. After the war, these false confessions led to allegations that the airmen had been \"brainwashed\", so the United States interviewed the former prisoners of war to collect information on the torture techniques employed, publishing their results in 1957. These torture techniques were incorporated into the Survival, Evasion, Resistance and Escape (SERE) program to train servicemembers to resist torture.\n\nFM 34-52 Intelligence Interrogation, the United States Army field manual, explains that torture \"is a poor technique that yields unreliable results, may damage subsequent collection efforts, and can induce the source to say what he thinks the interrogator wants to hear.\" Not only is torture ineffective at gathering reliable information, but it also increases the difficulty of gathering information from a source in the future.\n\nFalse information about a link between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda was extracted from Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi through torture and was cited by the George W. Bush Administration in the months preceding its 2003 invasion of Iraq. That information was frequently repeated by members of the Bush Administration, although reports from both the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) strongly questioned its credibility, suggesting that al-Libi was \"intentionally misleading\" interrogators.\n\nSince the revelations in 2004 and 2008 that the President George W. Bush administration authorized the use of torture in interrogations, and that United States personnel have used such practices in interrogations related to the 9/11 attacks and al-Qaeda, both at black sites and at Guantánamo Bay detention camp, discussions on this topic have been heated. In commenting on the use and effectiveness of various torture methods, with a focus on waterboarding, former U.S. Director of National Intelligence, Dennis C. Blair, wrote in 2009 that \"high value information came from interrogations in which these methods were used\". However a Senate Committee that investigated claims of useful information being extracted from suspects that underwent enhanced interrogation concluded that critical and valuable information was not obtained using these methods. The 5,700-page Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture also concluded that the CIA repeatedly and deliberately impeded oversight, as well as misrepresenting the effectiveness of torture as an interrogation technique to policymakers and to the public through coordinated leaking of false information.\n\nAlex Knapp, a staff writer at \"Forbes,\" wrote the following in 2009, \"Time and time again, people with actual experience with interrogating terror suspects and actual experience and knowledge about the effectiveness of torture techniques have come out to explain that they are ineffective and that their use threatens national security more than it helps\". He had written an article about an FBI interrogator, who noted their practice did not include torture; FBI agents had registered strong disapproval of the US military approach.\n\nAnnette Sisco argues that \"the [torture] techniques... are specifically designed to make captives pliable and dependent. They are designed to get prisoners to say whatever you want them to say\". Many torture survivors report revealing false or incomplete information since their goal was to satisfy the torturer and end the suffering, not to reveal information.\n\nThe book \"Physicians at War: the Dual-Loyalties Challenge\" by Fritz Allhoff explains that \"to test the effectiveness of torture researchers would have to ignore the consent of the research subjects\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3182668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3182668", "title": "Existential crisis", "text": "Existential crisis\n\nAn existential crisis is a moment at which an individual questions if their life has meaning, purpose, or value. It may be commonly, but not necessarily, tied to depression or inevitably negative speculations on purpose in life (e.g., \"if one day I will be forgotten, what is the point of all of my work?\"). This issue of the meaning and purpose of human existence is a major focus of the philosophical tradition of existentialism.\n\nAn existential crisis may result from, be misdiagnosed as, or be combined with:\n\nAn existential crisis is often provoked by a significant event in the person's life—psychological trauma, marriage, separation, major loss, the death of a loved one, a life-threatening experience, a new love partner, psychoactive drug use, adult children leaving home, reaching a personally significant age (turning 16, turning 40, etc.), etc. Usually, it provokes the sufferer's introspection about personal mortality, thus revealing the psychological repression of said awareness.\n\nAn existential crisis may resemble anomie (a personal condition resulting from a lack of norms) or a midlife crisis. An existential crisis may stem from one's new perception of life and existence. Analogously, existentialism posits that a person \"can and does\" define the meaning and purpose of his or her life, and therefore must \"choose\" to resolve the crisis of existence.\n\nIn existentialist philosophy, the term 'existential crisis' specifically relates to the crisis of the individual when they realize that they must always define their own lives through the choices they make. The existential crisis occurs when one recognizes that even the decision to either refrain from action or withhold assent to a particular choice is, in itself, a choice. In other words, humankind is \"condemned\" to freedom.\n\nExistential crisis has often been negatively associated with depression.\n\nPeter Wessel Zapffe, a Norwegian philosopher and adherent of nihilism and antinatalism, asserted in his book, \"The Last Messiah\", four ways that he believed all self-conscious beings use in order to cope with their apprehension of indifference and absurdity in existence, comprising \"anchoring\", \"isolation\", \"distraction\", and \"sublimation\":\n\n\nIn the 19th century, Kierkegaard considered that angst and existential despair would appear when an inherited or borrowed world-view (often of a collective nature) proved unable to handle unexpected and extreme life-experiences. Nietzsche extended his views to suggest that the Death of God—the loss of collective faith in religion and traditional morality—created a more widespread existential crisis for the philosophically aware.\n\nExistential crisis has indeed been seen as the inevitable accompaniment of modernism (1890–1945). Whereas Durkheim saw individual crises as the byproduct of social pathology and a (partial) lack of collective norms, others have seen existentialism as arising more broadly from the modernist crisis of the loss of meaning throughout the modern world. Its twin answers were either a religion revivified by the experience of anomie (as with Martin Buber), or an individualistic existentialism based on facing directly the absurd contingency of human fate within a meaningless and alien universe, as with Sartre and Camus.\n\nIrvin Yalom, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at Stanford University has made fundamental contributions to the field of existential psychotherapy. Rollo May is another of the founders of this approach.\n\nFredric Jameson has suggested that postmodernism, with its saturation of social space by a visual consumer culture, has replaced the modernist angst of the traditional subject, and with it the existential crisis of old, by a new social pathology of flattened affect and a fragmented subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "758947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=758947", "title": "Gerard K. O'Neill", "text": "Gerard K. O'Neill\n\nGerard Kitchen O'Neill (February 6, 1927 – April 27, 1992) was an American physicist and space activist. As a faculty member of Princeton University, he invented a device called the particle storage ring for high-energy physics experiments. Later, he invented a magnetic launcher called the mass driver. In the 1970s, he developed a plan to build human settlements in outer space, including a space habitat design known as the O'Neill cylinder. He founded the Space Studies Institute, an organization devoted to funding research into space manufacturing and colonization.\n\nO'Neill began researching high-energy particle physics at Princeton in 1954, after he received his doctorate from Cornell University. Two years later, he published his theory for a particle storage ring. This invention allowed particle accelerators at much higher energies than had previously been possible. In 1965 at Stanford University, he performed the first colliding beam physics experiment.\n\nWhile teaching physics at Princeton, O'Neill became interested in the possibility that humans could survive and live in outer space. He researched and proposed a futuristic idea for human settlement in space, the O'Neill cylinder, in \"The Colonization of Space\", his first paper on the subject. He held a conference on space manufacturing at Princeton in 1975. Many who became post-Apollo-era space activists attended. O'Neill built his first mass driver prototype with professor Henry Kolm in 1976. He considered mass drivers critical for extracting the mineral resources of the Moon and asteroids. His award-winning book \"\" inspired a generation of space exploration advocates. He died of leukemia in 1992.\n\nO'Neill was born in Brooklyn, New York on February 6, 1927 to Edward Gerard O'Neill, a lawyer, and Dorothy Lewis O'Neill (née Kitchen). He had no siblings. His family moved to Speculator, New York when his father temporarily retired for health reasons. For high school, O'Neill attended Newburgh Free Academy in Newburgh, New York. While he was a student there he edited the school newspaper and took a job as a news broadcaster at a local radio station. He graduated in 1944, during World War II, and enlisted in the United States Navy on his 17th birthday. The Navy trained him as a radar technician, which sparked his interest in science.\n\nAfter he was honorably discharged in 1946, O'Neill studied physics and mathematics at Swarthmore College. As a child he had discussed the possibilities of humans in space with his parents, and in college he enjoyed working on rocket equations. However, he did not see space science as an option for a career path in physics, choosing instead to pursue high-energy physics. He graduated with Phi Beta Kappa honors in 1950. O'Neill performed his graduate studies at Cornell University with the help of an Atomic Energy Commission fellowship, and was awarded a Ph.D. in physics in 1954.\n\nO'Neill married Sylvia Turlington, also a Swarthmore graduate, in June 1950. They had a son, Roger, and two daughters, Janet and Eleanor, before their marriage ended in divorce in 1966.\n\nOne of O'Neill's favorite activities was flying. He held instrument certifications in both powered and sailplane flight and held the FAI Diamond Badge, a gliding award. During his first cross-country glider flight in April 1973, he was assisted on the ground by Renate \"Tasha\" Steffen. He had met Tasha, who was 21 years younger than him, previously through the YMCA International Club. They were married the day after his flight. They had a son, Edward O'Neill.\n\nAfter graduating from Cornell, O'Neill accepted a position as an instructor at Princeton University. There he started his research into high-energy particle physics. In 1956, his second year of teaching, he published a two-page article that theorized that the particles produced by a particle accelerator could be stored for a few seconds in a storage ring. The stored particles could then be directed to collide with another particle beam. This would increase the energy of the particle collision over the previous method, which directed the beam at a fixed target. His ideas were not immediately accepted by the physics community.\n\nO'Neill became an assistant professor at Princeton in 1956, and was promoted to associate professor in 1959. He visited Stanford University in 1957 to meet with Professor Wolfgang K. H. Panofsky. This resulted in a collaboration between Princeton and Stanford to build the Colliding Beam Experiment (CBX). With a US$800,000 grant from the Office of Naval Research, construction on the first particle storage rings began in 1958 at the Stanford High-Energy Physics Laboratory. He figured out how to capture the particles and, by pumping the air out to produce a vacuum, store them long enough to experiment on them. CBX stored its first beam on March 28, 1962. O'Neill became a full professor of physics in 1965.\n\nIn collaboration with Burton Richter, O'Neill performed the first colliding beam physics experiment in 1965. In this experiment, particle beams from the Stanford Linear Accelerator were collected in his storage rings and then directed to collide at an energy of 600 MeV. At the time, this was the highest energy involved in a particle collision. The results proved that the charge of an electron is contained in a volume less than 100 attometers across. O'Neill considered his device to be capable of only seconds of storage, but, by creating an even stronger vacuum, others were able to increase this to hours. In 1979, he, with physicist David C. Cheng, wrote the graduate-level textbook \"Elementary Particle Physics: An Introduction\". He retired from teaching in 1985, but remained associated with Princeton as \"professor emeritus\" until his death.\n\nO'Neill saw great potential in the United States space program, especially the Apollo missions. He applied to the Astronaut Corps after NASA opened it up to civilian scientists in 1966. Later, when asked why he wanted to go on the Moon missions, he said, \"to be alive now and not take part in it seemed terribly myopic\". He was put through NASA's rigorous mental and physical examinations. During this time he met Brian O'Leary, also a scientist-astronaut candidate, who became his good friend. O'Leary was selected for Astronaut Group 6 but O'Neill was not.\n\nO'Neill became interested in the idea of space colonization in 1969 while he was teaching freshman physics at Princeton University. His students were growing cynical about the benefits of science to humanity because of the controversy surrounding the Vietnam War. To give them something relevant to study, he began using examples from the Apollo program as applications of elementary physics. O'Neill posed the question during an extra seminar he gave to a few of his students: \"Is the surface of a planet really the right place for an expanding technological civilization?\" His students' research convinced him that the answer was no.\n\nO'Neill was inspired by the papers written by his students. He began to work out the details of a program to build self-supporting space habitats in free space. Among the details was how to provide the inhabitants of a space colony with an Earth-like environment. His students had designed giant pressurized structures, spun up to approximate Earth gravity by centrifugal force. With the population of the colony living on the inner surface of a sphere or cylinder, these structures resembled \"inside-out planets\". He found that pairing counter-rotating cylinders would eliminate the need to spin them using rockets. This configuration has since been known as the \"O'Neill cylinder\".\n\nLooking for an outlet for his ideas, O'Neill wrote a paper titled \"The Colonization of Space\", and for four years attempted to have it published. He submitted it to several journals and magazines, including \"Scientific American\" and \"Science\", only to have it rejected by the reviewers. During this time O'Neill gave lectures on space colonization at Hampshire College, Princeton, and other schools. Many students and staff attending the lectures became enthusiastic about the possibility of living in space. Another outlet for O'Neill to explore his ideas was with his children; on walks in the forest they speculated about life in a space colony. His paper finally appeared in the September 1974 issue of \"Physics Today\". In it, he argued that building space colonies would solve several important problems: \n\nHe explored the possibilities of flying gliders inside a space colony, finding that the enormous volume could support atmospheric thermals. He calculated that humanity could expand on this man-made frontier to 20,000 times its population. The initial colonies would be built at the Earth-Moon and Lagrange points. and are stable points in the Solar System where a spacecraft can maintain its position without expending energy. The paper was well received, but many who would begin work on the project had already been introduced to his ideas before it was even published. The paper received a few critical responses. Some questioned the practicality of lifting tens of thousands of people into orbit and his estimates for the production output of initial colonies.\n\nWhile he was waiting for his paper to be published, O'Neill organized a small two-day conference in May 1974 at Princeton to discuss the possibility of colonizing outer space. The conference, titled \"First Conference on Space Colonization\", was funded by Stewart Brand's Point Foundation and Princeton University. Among those who attended were Eric Drexler (at the time a freshman at MIT), scientist-astronaut Joe Allen (from Astronaut Group 6), Freeman Dyson, and science reporter Walter Sullivan. Representatives from NASA also attended and brought estimates of launch costs expected on the planned Space Shuttle. O'Neill thought of the attendees as \"a band of daring radicals\". Sullivan's article on the conference was published on the front page of \"The New York Times\" on May 13, 1974. As media coverage grew, O'Neill was inundated with letters from people who were excited about living in space. To stay in touch with them, O'Neill began keeping a mailing list and started sending out updates on his progress. A few months later he heard Peter Glaser speak about solar power satellites at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. O'Neill realized that, by building these satellites, his space colonies could quickly recover the cost of their construction. According to O'Neill, \"the profound difference between this and everything else done in space is the potential of generating large amounts of new wealth\".\n\nO'Neill held a much larger conference the following May titled \"Princeton University Conference on Space Manufacturing\". At this conference more than two dozen speakers presented papers, including Keith and Carolyn Henson from Tucson, Arizona.\n\nAfter the conference Carolyn Henson arranged a meeting between O'Neill and Arizona Congressman Morris Udall. Udall wrote a letter of support, which he asked the Hensons to publicize, for O'Neill's work. The Hensons included his letter in the first issue of the L-5 Society newsletter, sent to everyone on O'Neill's mailing list and those who had signed up at the conference.\n\nIn June 1975, O'Neill led a ten-week study of permanent space habitats at NASA Ames. During the study he was called away to testify on July 23 to the House Subcommittee on Space Science and Applications. On January 19, 1976, he also appeared before the Senate Subcommittee on Aerospace Technology and National Needs. In a presentation titled \"Solar Power from Satellites\", he laid out his case for an Apollo-style program for building power plants in space. He returned to Ames in June 1976 and 1977 to lead studies on space manufacturing. In these studies, NASA developed detailed plans to establish bases on the Moon where space-suited workers would mine the mineral resources needed to build space colonies and solar power satellites.\n\nAlthough NASA was supporting his work with grants of up to $500,000 per year, O'Neill became frustrated by the bureaucracy and politics inherent in government-funded research. He thought that small privately funded groups could develop space technology faster than government agencies. In 1977, O'Neill and his wife Tasha founded the Space Studies Institute, a non-profit organization, at Princeton University. SSI received initial funding of almost $100,000 from private donors, and in early 1978 began to support basic research into technologies needed for space manufacturing and settlement.\nOne of SSI's first grants funded the development of the mass driver, a device first proposed by O'Neill in 1974. Mass drivers are based on the coilgun design, adapted to accelerate a non-magnetic object. One application O'Neill proposed for mass drivers was to throw baseball-sized chunks of ore mined from the surface of the Moon into space. Once in space, the ore could be used as raw material for building space colonies and solar power satellites. He took a sabbatical from Princeton to work on mass drivers at MIT. There he served as the Hunsaker Visiting Professor of Aerospace during the 1976–77 academic year. At MIT, he, Henry H. Kolm, and a group of student volunteers built their first mass driver prototype. The eight-foot (2.5 m) long prototype could apply 33 \"g\" (320 m/s) of acceleration to an object inserted into it. With financial assistance from SSI, later prototypes improved this to 1,800 \"g\" (18,000 m/s), enough acceleration that a mass driver only 520 feet (160 m) long could launch material off the surface of the Moon.\n\nIn 1977, O'Neill saw the peak of interest in space colonization, along with the publication of his first book, \"\". He and his wife were flying between meetings, interviews, and hearings. On October 9, the CBS program \"60 Minutes\" ran a segment about space colonies. Later they aired responses from the viewers, which included one from Senator William Proxmire, chairman of the Senate Subcommittee responsible for NASA's budget. His response was, \"it's the best argument yet for chopping NASA's funding to the bone ... I say not a penny for this nutty fantasy\". He successfully eliminated spending on space colonization research from the budget. In 1978, Paul Werbos wrote for the L-5 newsletter, \"no one expects Congress to commit us to O'Neill's concept of large-scale space habitats; people in NASA are almost paranoid about the public relations aspects of the idea\". When it became clear that a government-funded colonization effort was politically impossible, popular support for O'Neill's ideas started to evaporate.\n\nOther pressures on O'Neill's colonization plan were the high cost of access to Earth orbit and the declining cost of energy. Building solar power stations in space was economically attractive when energy prices spiked during the 1979 oil crisis. When prices dropped in the early 1980s, funding for space solar power research dried up. His plan had also been based on NASA's estimates for the flight rate and launch cost of the Space Shuttle, numbers that turned out to have been wildly optimistic. His 1977 book quoted a Space Shuttle launch cost of $10 million, but in 1981 the subsidized price given to commercial customers started at $38 million. A 1985 accounting of the full cost of a launch in 1985 raised this as high as $180 million per flight, and later estimates as the Space Shuttle program neared its end in 2011 were much higher yet.\n\nO'Neill was appointed by United States President Ronald Reagan to the National Commission on Space in 1985. The commission, led by former NASA administrator Thomas Paine, proposed that the government commit to opening the inner Solar System for human settlement within 50 years. Their report was released in May 1986, four months after the Space Shuttle Challenger broke up on ascent.\n\nO'Neill's popular science book \"\" (1977) combined fictional accounts of space settlers with an explanation of his plan to build space colonies. Its publication established him as the spokesman for the space colonization movement. It won the Phi Beta Kappa Award in Science that year, and prompted Swarthmore College to grant him an honorary doctorate. \"The High Frontier\" has been translated into five languages and remained in print as of 2008.\n\nHis 1981 book \"\" was an exercise in futurology. O'Neill narrated it as a visitor to Earth from a space colony beyond Pluto. The book explored the effects of technologies he called \"drivers of change\" on the coming century. Some technologies he described were space colonies, solar power satellites, anti-aging drugs, hydrogen-propelled cars, climate control, and underground magnetic trains. He left the social structure of the 1980s intact, assuming that humanity would remain unchanged even as it expanded into the Solar System. Reviews of \"2081\" were mixed. \"New York Times\" reviewer John Noble Wilford found the book \"imagination-stirring\", but Charles Nicol thought the technologies described were unacceptably far-fetched.\n\nIn his book \"The Technology Edge\", published in 1983, O'Neill wrote about economic competition with Japan. He argued that the United States had to develop six industries to compete: microengineering, robotics, genetic engineering, magnetic flight, family aircraft, and space science. He also thought that industrial development was suffering from short-sighted executives, self-interested unions, high taxes, and poor education of Americans. According to reviewer Henry Weil, O'Neill's detailed explanations of emerging technologies differentiated the book from others on the subject.\n\nO'Neill founded Geostar Corporation to develop a satellite position determination system for which he was granted a patent in 1982. The system, primarily intended to track aircraft, was called Radio Determination Satellite Service (RDSS). In April 1983 Geostar applied to the FCC for a license to broadcast from three satellites, which would cover the entire United States. Geostar launched GSTAR-2 into geosynchronous orbit in 1986. Its transmitter package permanently failed two months later, so Geostar began tests of RDSS by transmitting from other satellites. With his health failing, O'Neill became less involved with the company at the same time it started to run into trouble. In February 1991 Geostar filed for bankruptcy and its licenses were sold to Motorola for the Iridium satellite constellation project. Although the system was eventually replaced by GPS, O'Neill made significant advances in the field of position determination.\n\nO'Neill founded O'Neill Communications in Princeton in 1986. He introduced his Local Area Wireless Networking, or LAWN, system at the PC Expo in New York in 1989. The LAWN system allowed two computers to exchange messages over a range of a couple hundred feet at a cost of about $500 per node. O'Neill Communications went out of business in 1993; the LAWN technology was sold to Omnispread Communications. As of 2008, Omnispread continued to sell a variant of O'Neill's LAWN system.\n\nOn November 18, 1991, O'Neill filed a patent application for a vactrain system. He called the company he wanted to form \"VSE International\", for velocity, silence, and efficiency. However, the concept itself he called \"Magnetic Flight\". The vehicles, instead of running on a pair of tracks, would be elevated using electromagnetic force by a single track within a tube (permanent magnets in the track, with variable magnets on the vehicle), and propelled by electromagnetic forces through tunnels. He estimated the trains could reach speeds of up to 2,500 mph (4,000 km/h) — about five times faster than a jet airliner — if the air was evacuated from the tunnels. To obtain such speeds, the vehicle would accelerate for the first half of the trip, and then decelerate for the second half of the trip. The acceleration was planned to be a maximum of about one-half of the force of gravity. O'Neill planned to build a network of stations connected by these tunnels, but he died two years before his first patent on it was granted.\n\nO'Neill was diagnosed with leukemia in 1985. He died on April 27, 1992, from complications of the disease at the Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City, California. He was survived by his wife Tasha, his ex-wife Sylvia, and his four children. A sample of his incinerated remains was buried in space. The vial containing his ashes was attached to a Pegasus XL rocket and launched into Earth orbit on April 21, 1997. It re-entered the atmosphere in May 2002.\n\nO'Neill directed his Space Studies Institute to continue their efforts \"until people are living and working in space\". After his death, management of SSI was passed to his son Roger and colleague Freeman Dyson. SSI continued to hold conferences every other year to bring together scientists studying space colonization until 2001, then irregularly thereafter.\n\nHenry Kolm went on to start Magplane Technology in the 1990s to develop the magnetic transportation technology that O'Neill had written about. In 2007, Magplane demonstrated a working magnetic pipeline system to transport phosphate ore in Florida. The system ran at a speed of 40 mph (65 km/h), far slower than the high-speed trains O'Neill envisioned.\n\nAll three of the founders of the Space Frontier Foundation, an organization dedicated to opening the space frontier to human settlement, were supporters of O'Neill's ideas and had worked with him in various capacities at the Space Studies Institute. One of them, Rick Tumlinson, describes three men as models for space advocacy: Wernher von Braun, Gerard K. O'Neill, and Carl Sagan. Von Braun pushed for \"projects that ordinary people can be proud of but not participate in\". Sagan wanted to explore the universe from a distance. O'Neill, with his grand scheme for settlement of the Solar System, emphasized moving ordinary people off the Earth \"en masse\".\n\nThe National Space Society (NSS) gives the Gerard K. O'Neill Memorial Award for Space Settlement Advocacy to individuals noted for their contributions in the area of space settlement. Their contributions can be scientific, legislative, and educational. The award is a trophy cast in the shape of a Bernal sphere. The NSS first bestowed the award in 2007 on lunar entrepreneur and former astronaut Harrison Schmitt. In 2008, it was given to physicist John Marburger.\n\nIn fiction, the protagonist of Stephen Baxter's \"\" names his spaceship the \"Gerard K. O'Neill.\"\n\nAs of November, 2013, Gerard O'Neill's papers and work are now located in the archives at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center.\n\n\n\nO'Neill was granted six patents in total (two posthumously) in the areas of global position determination and magnetic levitation.\n\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\n\nVideos\n\nThe Vision of Gerard K. O'Neil 30 min testimony about what ordinary people can do about space\n\nOther references\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25432773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25432773", "title": "HMS Foxhound (1806)", "text": "HMS Foxhound (1806)\n\nHMS \"Foxhound\" was an 18-gun built by King at Dover and launched in 1806. She participated in the battle of the Basque Roads in early 1809 and foundered later that year.\n\nCommander Pitt Burnaby Greene, late commander of the hired armed brig , commissioned \"Foxhound\" in May 1807. On 26 August \"Foxhound\" captured the Danish vessel \"Adetheid Margaretha\". Two days later she captured the Danish vessels \"Gimlé\" and \"De Gode\".\n\nOn 28 June 1808 \"Foxhound\" captured the French chasse maree \"Susanne\". Then on 11 January 1809 \"Foxhound\" recaptured the Hamburg ship \"Vierininguen\".\n\nOn 17 March 1809, \"Foxhound\" joined Admiral Lord Gambier's Channel fleet anchored off the Basque Roads. The British plan was to use the 60 vessels (of all kinds) to attack the French fleet lying within. The 15 French vessels there, commanded by Vice-Admiral Zacharie Allemand, lay behind a boom protected by 30 guns. \n\nDuring this time \"Foxhound\" participated in the capture of two vessels, the Danish ship \"Neptunus\" on 24 March and the French ship \"Nymphe\" on 28 March. For the capture of \"Neptunus\", \"Foxhound\" was in company with and the sloop . \"Foxhound\" was also in company with \"Indefatigable\" for the capture of \"Nymphe\".\n\nOn 11 April, two explosion ships, twelve fire ships, accompanied by bomb vessels and escorted by men-of-war, some 27 vessels in all, under the command of Captain Lord Cochrane, broke the boom under a heavy fire. \"Foxhound\" covered the bomb vessel near the Île-d'Aix, which was making a diversionary attack. The British main attack captured two French vessels and two were blown up, all with a total loss to the British of only eight men killed and 24 wounded. Still, Cochrane was highly critical of Gambier's failure to act more aggressively. (Gambier had earlier objected to the plan to use explosion (Cochrane's invention) and fire ships, calling it \"a horrible and anti-Christian mode of warfare\".)\n\nTwo of \"Foxhound\"s sister ships, and were also present at the Basque Roads. In 1847 the Admiralty awarded the then-surviving participants in the battle the Naval General Service Medal with the clasp \"Basque Roads 1809\".\n\nOn 16 May 1809, \"Foxhound\" sailed for Quebec with a convoy.\n\nWhile under the command of Commander James MacKenzie, \"Foxhound\" was returning from Halifax when she foundered in the Atlantic with the loss of all on board. The loss occurred in August, and perhaps on 31 August 1809. The vessels in company were unable to render any assistance.\n\nCitations\n\nReferences\n"}
{"id": "5909752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5909752", "title": "Hedda Nussbaum", "text": "Hedda Nussbaum\n\nHedda Nussbaum (born August 8, 1942) is an American woman who was caretaker for a six-year-old girl who died of physical abuse in 1987. The death of the girl, Lisa Steinberg, sparked a lengthy and controversial trial and media frenzy. The legal case was one of the first to be televised \"gavel to gavel.\" Supporters characterized Nussbaum as a victim of horrific domestic abuse at the hands of her live-in partner, Joel Steinberg. Critics suggested she was a consensual partner in a sado-masochistic relationship and an unprosecuted co-conspirator in the young girl's death.\n\nBefore meeting Joel Steinberg in 1975, Nussbaum had been an editor and author of children's books at Random House publishers, and before that at Appleton Century Crofts. Steinberg was a defense attorney who sometimes handled adoption cases. Beginning in 1976, Nussbaum and Steinberg lived together in a brownstone apartment in New York City's Greenwich Village. Her 1977 book, \"Plants Do Amazing Things\", was dedicated, in part, \"to Joel, my everyday inspiration.\"\n\nDue to Nussbaum's occasionally obvious bruises and other injuries, friends and colleagues suspected that Nussbaum was the victim of domestic violence. Neighbors later stated to police they believed that Nussbaum and Steinberg were active participants in a \"some kind of a sexual sadomasochistic game.\" Friends occasionally offered to help if Nussbaum was being abused, but she declined their offers of intervention or aid and refused to implicate Steinberg. After extended absences from work, Random House put Nussbaum on consulting editor status in 1982.\n\nIn 1981, under dubious legal circumstances, Nussbaum and Steinberg took custody of an infant girl they named Lisa. The girl's birth mother had paid Steinberg a $500.00 legal fee to place the child with a Roman Catholic family; both Steinberg and Nussbaum were Jewish. Under similar circumstances, Nussbaum and Steinberg later took in a toddler they named Mitchell. Nussbaum and Steinberg never legally adopted either child.\n\nIn her 2005 book \"Surviving Intimate Terrorism\", Nussbaum argued that her denial of the danger she and her children lived in was typical of some chronically maltreated persons (see battered person syndrome). Nussbaum claimed that she fled from the home six times, only to later return. In her 2005 book, Nussbaum also mentions the medical theory that trauma, especially prolonged trauma, can elicit the body's production of opioids that produce mental and physical numbness. In her 2005 book, Nussbaum also suggests that her \"numbness\" further reduced her ability to think and act clearly, akin to \"Stockholm Syndrome\", a mental state wherein victims identify with their abusers.\n\nAccording to initial police reports, on November 1, 1987 around 7:00 p.m., Steinberg rendered Lisa unconscious with a severe blow to the head. Nussbaum remained alone with the dying child for roughly ten hours, failing to notify police or medical personnel. Steinberg departed and returned several times, sometimes freebasing cocaine. According to initial police reports, Nussbaum didn't notify authorities because she believed Steinberg had supernatural healing powers. At roughly 6.00 a.m. the next morning, Lisa stopped breathing. Shortly thereafter, Steinberg telephoned 911 at Nussbaum's urging.\n\nAfter Lisa's death, Mitchell was discovered in squalid conditions. The child's birth mother, Nicole Smiegel, had waived her parental rights. However, since a legal adoption had never occurred, Smiegel was ultimately granted custody of her son.\n\nWhen authorities learned of Lisa's death, they initially charged both Nussbaum and Steinberg with complicity. In the course of the investigation, however, charges were later dropped against Nussbaum. She agreed to testify against Steinberg, and medical examination revealed that Nussbaum was anemic, malnourished, and suffering from broken bones and chronic infections. With these findings, authorities determined that Nussbaum was physically incapable of seriously wounding Lisa.\n\nNussbaum's courtroom testimony against Steinberg earned substantial media attention, due in part to her face showing obvious evidence of physical trauma. There were also indications, as Nussbaum testified in court, that Lisa had been sexually abused by people outside of her immediate family. During the trial, medical experts testified that while Lisa's injuries were severe, she would have almost certainly survived if given prompt medical treatment.\n\nSteinberg was convicted on charges of first-degree manslaughter. After serving 16 years at the Southport Correctional Facility in Pine City, New York, where he was held in protective custody, Steinberg was released on parole in 2004 and got a job in construction.\n\nIn the years following Lisa's death, Nussbaum worked to rebuild her life and had numerous reconstructive plastic surgeries. She also co-facilitated a support group for battered women for about eight years and later worked as a paralegal for an organization that assists battered women. In 1995, Nussbaum began giving lectures about abuse at colleges and shelters. When Steinberg was released from prison, however, she receded from public attention until the publication of her book a year and a half later.\n\nThe Nussbaum case polarized feminist scholars and activists. Some saw Nussbaum as an archetypal victim of domestic violence whose actions were controlled and restricted not only by her abusive partner, but also by the culture at large that denies the seriousness of abuse in the home. Other leading feminists—notably Susan Brownmiller—suggested that while Nussbaum suffered violence from her partner, she also have shared full culpability for Lisa's death.\n\nBooks by Nussbaum include:\n"}
{"id": "22394264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22394264", "title": "Helena Ekblom", "text": "Helena Ekblom\n\nHelena Sophia Ekblom, known as \"Predikare-Lena\" (Preacher-Lena) and \"Vita jungfrun\" (The White Maiden), (24 June 1790 – 1859) was a Swedish writer and preacher.\n\nHelena Ekblom was born in Östergötland. Her father worked as a sailor. At the age of nine, she claimed to have had a religious revelation. In 1806, she began her activity as a travelling preacher. As she was always dressed in white during her sermons, she was called The White Maiden. In 1808, she was placed in the Vadstena mental asylum. During her stay at the institution, she wrote a book about her revelations, which was published in several editions until 1920.\n\nIn 1828, she was released from the asylum and continued her activity as a travelling preacher. She was eventually housed by a farmer. During her old age, she became confused. She died by freezing to death in the snow during winter.\n\n\nHelena Ekblom is the subject of a novel: \"Predikare-Lena\" ('Preacher-Lena') by Tore Zetterholm, (1974).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57985", "title": "Ian Fleming", "text": "Ian Fleming\n\nIan Lancaster Fleming (28 May 1908 – 12 August 1964) was an English author, journalist, and naval intelligence officer who is best known for his James Bond series of spy novels. Fleming came from a wealthy family connected to the merchant bank Robert Fleming & Co., and his father was the Member of Parliament for Henley from 1910 until his death on the Western Front in 1917. He was educated at Eton, Sandhurst, and the universities of Munich and Geneva, and he moved through several jobs before he started writing.\n\nFleming worked for Britain's Naval Intelligence Division during the Second World War and was involved in planning Operation Goldeneye and in the planning and oversight of the 30 Assault Unit and T-Force intelligence units. His wartime service and his career as a journalist provided much of the background, detail, and depth of the James Bond novels.\n\nFleming wrote his first Bond novel \"Casino Royale\" in 1952. It was a success, with three print runs being commissioned to cope with the demand. Eleven Bond novels and two collections of short stories followed between 1953 and 1966. The novels revolved around James Bond, an officer in the Secret Intelligence Service commonly known as MI6. Bond was also known by his code number 007, and was a commander in the Royal Naval Reserve. The Bond stories rank among the best-selling series of fictional books of all time, having sold more than 100 million copies worldwide. Fleming also wrote the children's story \"Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang\" and two works of non-fiction. In 2008, \"The Times\" ranked Fleming 14th on its list of \"The 50 greatest British writers since 1945\".\n\nFleming was married to Ann Charteris, who was divorced from the second Viscount Rothermere because of her affair with Fleming. The couple had a son named Caspar. Fleming was a heavy smoker and drinker for most of his life and succumbed to heart disease in 1964 at age 56. Two of his James Bond books were published posthumously. Fleming's creation has appeared in film 26 times, portrayed by seven actors.\n\nIan Lancaster Fleming was born on 28 May 1908, at 27 Green Street in the wealthy London district of Mayfair. His mother was Evelyn (\"\" Rose), and his father was Valentine Fleming, the Member of Parliament for Henley from 1910 to 1917. As an infant he briefly lived, with his family, at Braziers Park in Oxfordshire. Fleming was a grandson of the Scottish financier Robert Fleming, who founded the Scottish American Investment Trust and the merchant bank Robert Fleming & Co.\n\nIn 1914, with the start of the First World War, Valentine Fleming joined \"C\" Squadron, Queen's Own Oxfordshire Hussars, and rose to the rank of major. He was killed by German shelling on the Western Front on 20 May 1917; Winston Churchill wrote an obituary that appeared in \"The Times\". Because the family owned an estate at Arnisdale, Valentine's death was commemorated on the Glenelg War Memorial.\n\nFleming's elder brother Peter (1907–1971) became a travel writer and married actress Celia Johnson. Peter served with the Grenadier Guards during the Second World War, was later commissioned under Colin Gubbins to help establish the Auxiliary Units, and became involved in behind-the-lines operations in Norway and Greece during the war.\n\nFleming also had two younger brothers, Michael (1913–1940) and Richard (1911–1977), and a younger maternal half-sister born out of wedlock, the cellist Amaryllis Fleming (1925–1999), whose father was the artist Augustus John. Amaryllis was conceived during a long-term affair between John and Evelyn that started in 1923, six years after the death of Valentine.\n\nIn 1914 Fleming attended Durnford School, a preparatory school on the Isle of Purbeck in Dorset. He did not enjoy his time at Durnford; he suffered unpalatable food, physical hardship and bullying.\n\nIn 1921 Fleming enrolled at Eton College. Not a high achiever academically, he excelled at athletics and held the title of \"Victor Ludorum\" (\"Winner of the Games\") for two years between 1925 and 1927. He also edited a school magazine, \"The Wyvern\". His lifestyle at Eton brought him into conflict with his housemaster, E. V. Slater, who disapproved of Fleming's attitude, his hair oil, his ownership of a car and his relations with women. Slater persuaded Fleming's mother to remove him from Eton a term early for a crammer course to gain entry to the Royal Military College at Sandhurst. He spent less than a year there, leaving in 1927 without gaining a commission, after contracting gonorrhea.\n\nIn 1927, to prepare Fleming for possible entry into the Foreign Office, his mother sent him to the Tennerhof in Kitzbühel, Austria, a small private school run by the Adlerian disciple and former British spy Ernan Forbes Dennis and his novelist wife, Phyllis Bottome. After improving his language skills there, he studied briefly at Munich University and the University of Geneva. While in Geneva, Fleming began a romance with Monique Panchaud de Bottens and the couple were briefly engaged in 1931. His mother disapproved and made him break off the relationship. He applied for entry to the Foreign Office, but failed the examinations. His mother again intervened in his affairs, lobbying Sir Roderick Jones, head of Reuters News Agency, and in October 1931 he was given a position as a sub-editor and journalist for the company. In 1933 Fleming spent time in Moscow, where he covered the Stalinist show trial of six engineers from the British company Metropolitan-Vickers. While there he applied for an interview with Soviet premier Joseph Stalin, and was amazed to receive a personally signed note apologising for not being able to attend.\n\nFleming bowed to family pressure in October 1933, and went into banking with a position at the financiers Cull & Co. In 1935 he moved to Rowe and Pitman on Bishopsgate as a stockbroker. Fleming was unsuccessful in both roles. Early in 1939 Fleming began an affair with Ann O'Neill (née Charteris), who was married to the 3rd Baron O'Neill; she was also having an affair with Esmond Harmsworth, the heir to Lord Rothermere, owner of the \"Daily Mail\".\n\nIn May 1939 Fleming was recruited by Rear Admiral John Godfrey, Director of Naval Intelligence of the Royal Navy, to become his personal assistant. He joined the organisation full-time in August 1939, with the codename \"17F\", and worked out of Room 39 at The Admiralty. Fleming's biographer, Andrew Lycett, notes that Fleming had \"no obvious qualifications\" for the role. As part of his appointment, Fleming was commissioned into the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve in July 1939, initially as lieutenant, but promoted to commander a few months later.\n\nFleming proved invaluable as Godfrey's personal assistant and excelled in administration. Godfrey was known as an abrasive character who made enemies within government circles. He frequently used Fleming as a liaison with other sections of the government's wartime administration, such as the Secret Intelligence Service, the Political Warfare Executive, the Special Operations Executive (SOE), the Joint Intelligence Committee and the Prime Minister's staff.\n\nOn 29 September 1939, soon after the start of the war, Godfrey circulated a memorandum that, \"bore all the hallmarks of ... Lieutenant Commander Ian Fleming\", according to historian Ben Macintyre. It was called the Trout Memo and compared the deception of an enemy in wartime to fly fishing. The memo contained several schemes to be considered for use against the Axis powers to lure U-boats and German surface ships towards minefields. Number 28 on the list was an idea to plant misleading papers on a corpse that would be found by the enemy; the suggestion is similar to Operation Mincemeat, the 1943 plan to conceal the intended invasion of Italy from North Africa, which was developed by Charles Cholmondoley in October 1942. The recommendation in the Trout Memo was titled: \"A Suggestion (not a very nice one)\", and continued: \"The following suggestion is used in a book by Basil Thomson: a corpse dressed as an airman, with despatches in his pockets, could be dropped on the coast, supposedly from a parachute that has failed. I understand there is no difficulty in obtaining corpses at the Naval Hospital, but, of course, it would have to be a fresh one.\"\n\nIn 1940 Fleming and Godfrey contacted Kenneth Mason, Professor of Geography at Oxford University, about the preparation of reports on the geography of countries involved in military operations. These reports were the precursors of the \"Naval Intelligence Division Geographical Handbook Series\" produced between 1941 and 1946.\n\nOperation Ruthless, a plan aimed at obtaining details of the Enigma codes used by Nazi Germany's navy, was instigated by a memo written by Fleming to Godfrey on 12 September 1940. The idea was to \"obtain\" a German bomber, man it with a German-speaking crew dressed in Luftwaffe uniforms, and crash it into the English Channel. The crew would then attack their German rescuers and bring their boat and Enigma machine back to England. Much to the annoyance of Alan Turing and Peter Twinn at Bletchley Park, the mission was never carried out. According to Fleming's niece, Lucy, an official of the Royal Air Force pointed out that if they were to drop a downed Heinkel bomber in the English Channel, it would probably sink rather quickly.\n\nFleming also worked with Colonel \"Wild Bill\" Donovan, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's special representative on intelligence co-operation between London and Washington. In May 1941 Fleming accompanied Godfrey to the United States, where he assisted in writing a blueprint for the Office of the Coordinator of Information, the department that turned into the Office of Strategic Services and eventually became the CIA.\n\nAdmiral Godfrey put Fleming in charge of Operation Goldeneye between 1941 and 1942; Goldeneye was a plan to maintain an intelligence framework in Spain in the event of a German takeover of the territory. Fleming's plan involved maintaining communication with Gibraltar and launching sabotage operations against the Nazis. In 1941 he liaised with Donovan over American involvement in a measure intended to ensure that the Germans did not dominate the seaways.\n\nIn 1942 Fleming formed a unit of commandos, known as No. 30 Commando or 30 Assault Unit (30AU), composed of specialist intelligence troops. 30AU's job was to be near the front line of an advance—sometimes in front of it—to seize enemy documents from previously targeted headquarters. The unit was based on a German group headed by Otto Skorzeny, who had undertaken similar activities in the Battle of Crete in May 1941. The German unit was thought by Fleming to be \"one of the most outstanding innovations in German intelligence\".\n\nFleming did not fight in the field with the unit, but selected targets and directed operations from the rear. On its formation the unit was thirty strong, but it grew to five times that size. The unit was filled with men from other commando units, and trained in unarmed combat, safe-cracking and lock-picking at the SOE facilities. In late 1942 Captain (later Rear-Admiral) Edmund Rushbrooke replaced Godfrey as head of the Naval Intelligence Division, and Fleming's influence in the organisation declined, although he retained control over 30AU. Fleming was unpopular with the unit's members, who disliked his referring to them as his \"Red Indians\".\n\nBefore the 1944 Normandy landings, most of 30AU's operations were in the Mediterranean, and it also secretly participated in the Dieppe Raid in a failed pinch raid for an Enigma machine and related materials. Fleming observed the raid from HMS \"Fernie\", 700 yards offshore. Because of its successes in Sicily and Italy, 30AU became greatly trusted by naval intelligence.\n\nIn March 1944 Fleming oversaw the distribution of intelligence to Royal Navy units in preparation for Operation Overlord. He was replaced as head of 30AU on 6 June 1944, but maintained some involvement. He visited 30AU in the field during and after Overlord, especially following an attack on Cherbourg for which he was concerned that the unit had been incorrectly used as a regular commando force rather than an intelligence-gathering unit. This wasted the men's specialist skills, risked their safety on operations that did not justify the use of such skilled operatives, and threatened the vital gathering of intelligence. Afterwards, the management of these units was revised. He also followed the unit into Germany after it located, in Tambach Castle, the German naval archives from 1870.\n\nIn December 1944 Fleming was posted on an intelligence fact-finding trip to the Far East on behalf of the Director of Naval Intelligence. Much of the trip was spent identifying opportunities for 30AU in the Pacific; the unit saw little action because of the Japanese surrender.\n\nThe success of 30AU led to the August 1944 decision to establish a \"Target Force\", which became known as T-Force. The official memorandum, held at The National Archives in London, describes the unit's primary role: \"T-Force = Target Force, to guard and secure documents, persons, equipment, with combat and Intelligence personnel, after capture of large towns, ports etc. in liberated and enemy territory.\"\n\nFleming sat on the committee that selected the targets for the T-Force unit, and listed them in the \"Black Books\" that were issued to the unit's officers. The infantry component of T-Force was in part made up of the 5th Battalion, King's Regiment, which supported the Second Army. It was responsible for securing targets of interest for the British military, including nuclear laboratories, gas research centres and individual rocket scientists. The unit's most notable discoveries came during the advance on the German port of Kiel, in the research centre for German engines used in the V-2 rocket, Messerschmitt Me 163 fighters and high-speed U-boats. Fleming would later use elements of the activities of T-Force in his writing, particularly in his 1955 Bond novel \"Moonraker\".\n\nIn 1942 Fleming attended an Anglo-American intelligence summit in Jamaica and, despite the constant heavy rain during his visit, he decided to live on the island once the war was over. His friend Ivar Bryce helped find a plot of land in Saint Mary Parish where, in 1945, Fleming had a house built, which he named Goldeneye. The name of the house and estate where he wrote his novels has many possible sources. Fleming himself mentioned both his wartime Operation Goldeneye and Carson McCullers' 1941 novel \"Reflections in a Golden Eye\", which described the use of British naval bases in the Caribbean by the American navy.\n\nFleming was awarded the Danish Frihedsmedalje in October 1947 for his contribution in assisting Danish officers escaping from Denmark to Britain during the occupation of Denmark.\n\nUpon Fleming's demobilisation in May 1945, he became the Foreign Manager in the Kemsley newspaper group, which at the time owned \"The Sunday Times\". In this role he oversaw the paper's worldwide network of correspondents. His contract allowed him to take three months holiday every winter, which he took in Jamaica. Fleming worked full-time for the paper until December 1959, but continued to write articles and attend the Tuesday weekly meetings until at least 1961.\n\nAfter Ann Charteris' first husband died in the war, she expected to marry Fleming, but he decided to remain a bachelor. On 28 June 1945, she married the second Viscount Rothermere. Nevertheless, Charteris continued her affair with Fleming, travelling to Jamaica to see him under the pretext of visiting his friend and neighbour Noël Coward. In 1948 she gave birth to Fleming's daughter, Mary, who was stillborn. Rothermere divorced Charteris in 1951 because of her relationship with Fleming, and the couple married on 24 March 1952 in Jamaica, a few months before their son Caspar was born in August. Both Fleming and Ann had affairs during their marriage, she with Hugh Gaitskell, the Leader of the Labour Party and Leader of the Opposition. Fleming had a long-term affair in Jamaica with one of his neighbours, Blanche Blackwell, the mother of Chris Blackwell of Island Records.\n\nFleming had first mentioned to friends during the war that he wanted to write a spy novel, an ambition he achieved within two months with \"Casino Royale\". He started writing the book at Goldeneye on 17 February 1952, gaining inspiration from his own experiences and imagination. He claimed afterwards that he wrote the novel to distract himself from his forthcoming wedding to the pregnant Charteris, and called the work his \"dreadful oafish opus\". His manuscript was typed in London by Joan Howe (mother of travel writer Rory MacLean), and Fleming's red-haired secretary at \"The Times\" on whom the character Miss Moneypenny was partially based. Clare Blanchard, a former girlfriend, advised him not to publish the book, or at least to do so under a pseudonym.\n\nDuring \"Casino Royale's\" final draft stages, Fleming allowed his friend William Plomer to see a copy, and remarked \"so far as I can see the element of suspense is completely absent\". Despite this, Plomer thought the book had sufficient promise and sent a copy to the publishing house Jonathan Cape. At first, they were unenthusiastic about the novel, but Fleming's brother Peter, whose books they managed, persuaded the company to publish it. On 13 April 1953 \"Casino Royale\" was released in the UK in hardcover, priced at 10s 6d, with a cover designed by Fleming. It was a success and three print runs were needed to cope with the demand.\n\nThe novel centres on the exploits of James Bond, an officer in the Secret Intelligence Service, commonly known as MI6. Bond was also known by his code number, 007, and was a commander in the Royal Naval Reserve. Fleming took the name for his character from that of the American ornithologist James Bond, an expert on Caribbean birds and author of the definitive field guide \"Birds of the West Indies\". Fleming, himself a keen birdwatcher, had a copy of Bond's guide, and later told the ornithologist's wife, \"that this brief, unromantic, Anglo-Saxon and yet very masculine name was just what I needed, and so a second James Bond was born\". In a 1962 interview in \"The New Yorker\", he further explained: \"When I wrote the first one in 1953, I wanted Bond to be an extremely dull, uninteresting man to whom things happened; I wanted him to be a blunt instrument ... when I was casting around for a name for my protagonist I thought by God, [James Bond] is the dullest name I ever heard.\"\n\nFleming based his creation on individuals he met during his time in the Naval Intelligence Division, and admitted that Bond \"was a compound of all the secret agents and commando types I met during the war\". Among those types were his brother Peter, whom he worshipped, and who had been involved in behind-the-lines operations in Norway and Greece during the war. Fleming envisaged that Bond would resemble the composer, singer and actor Hoagy Carmichael; others, such as author and historian Ben Macintyre, identify aspects of Fleming's own looks in his description of Bond. General references in the novels describe Bond as having \"dark, rather cruel good looks\".\n\nFleming also modelled aspects of Bond on Conrad O'Brien-ffrench, a spy whom Fleming had met while skiing in Kitzbühel in the 1930s, Patrick Dalzel-Job, who served with distinction in 30AU during the war, and Bill \"Biffy\" Dunderdale, station head of MI6 in Paris, who wore cufflinks and handmade suits and was chauffeured around Paris in a Rolls-Royce. Sir Fitzroy Maclean was another possible model for Bond, based on his wartime work behind enemy lines in the Balkans, as was the MI6 double agent Duško Popov. Fleming also endowed Bond with many of his own traits, including the same golf handicap, his taste for scrambled eggs, his love of gambling, and use of the same brand of toiletries.\n\nAfter the publication of \"Casino Royale\", Fleming used his annual holiday at his house in Jamaica to write another Bond story. Twelve Bond novels and two short-story collections were published between 1953 and 1966, the last two (\"The Man with the Golden Gun\" and \"Octopussy and The Living Daylights\") posthumously. Much of the background to the stories came from Fleming's previous work in the Naval Intelligence Division or from events he knew of from the Cold War. The plot of \"From Russia, with Love\" uses a fictional Soviet Spektor decoding machine as a lure to trap Bond; the Spektor had its roots in the wartime German Enigma machine. The novel's plot device of spies on the Orient Express was based on the story of Eugene Karp, a US naval attaché and intelligence agent based in Budapest who took the Orient Express from Budapest to Paris in February 1950, carrying papers about blown US spy networks in the Eastern Bloc. Soviet assassins already on the train drugged the conductor, and Karp's body was found shortly afterwards in a railway tunnel south of Salzburg.\nMany of the names used in the Bond works came from people Fleming knew: Scaramanga, the principal villain in \"The Man with the Golden Gun\", was named after a fellow Eton schoolboy with whom Fleming fought; Goldfinger, from the eponymous novel, was named after British architect Ernő Goldfinger, whose work Fleming abhorred; Sir Hugo Drax, the antagonist of \"Moonraker\", was named after Fleming's acquaintance Admiral Sir Reginald Aylmer Ranfurly Plunkett-Ernle-Erle-Drax; Drax's assistant, Krebs, bears the same name as Hitler's last Chief of Staff; and one of the homosexual villains from \"Diamonds Are Forever\", \"Boofy\" Kidd, was named after one of Fleming's close friends—and a relative of his wife—Arthur Gore, 8th Earl of Arran, known as Boofy to his friends.\n\nFleming's first work of non-fiction, \"The Diamond Smugglers\", was published in 1957 and was partly based on background research for his fourth Bond novel, \"Diamonds Are Forever\". Much of the material had appeared in \"The Sunday Times\" and was based on Fleming's interviews with John Collard, a member of the International Diamond Security Organisation who had previously worked in MI5. The book received mixed reviews in the UK and US.\n\nFor the first five books (\"Casino Royale\", \"Live and Let Die\", \"Moonraker\", \"Diamonds Are Forever\" and \"From Russia, with Love\") Fleming received broadly positive reviews. That began to change in March 1958 when Bernard Bergonzi, in the journal \"Twentieth Century\", attacked Fleming's work as containing \"a strongly marked streak of voyeurism and sado-masochism\" and wrote that the books showed \"the total lack of any ethical frame of reference\". The article compared Fleming unfavourably with John Buchan and Raymond Chandler on both moral and literary criteria. A month later, \"Dr. No\" was published, and Fleming received harsh criticism from reviewers who, in the words of Ben Macintyre, \"rounded on Fleming, almost as a pack\". The most strongly worded of the critiques came from Paul Johnson of the \"New Statesman\", who, in his review \"Sex, Snobbery and Sadism\", called the novel \"without doubt, the nastiest book I have ever read\". Johnson went on to say that \"by the time I was a third of the way through, I had to suppress a strong impulse to throw the thing away\". Johnson recognised that in Bond there \"was a social phenomenon of some importance\", but this was seen as a negative element, as the phenomenon concerned \"three basic ingredients in \"Dr No\", all unhealthy, all thoroughly English: the sadism of a schoolboy bully, the mechanical, two-dimensional sex-longings of a frustrated adolescent, and the crude, snob-cravings of a suburban adult.\" Johnson saw no positives in \"Dr. No\", and said, \"Mr Fleming has no literary skill, the construction of the book is chaotic, and entire incidents and situations are inserted, and then forgotten, in a haphazard manner.\"\n\nLycett notes that Fleming \"went into a personal and creative decline\" after marital problems and the attacks on his work. \"Goldfinger\" had been written before the publication of \"Dr. No\"; the next book Fleming produced after the criticism was \"For Your Eyes Only\", a collection of short stories derived from outlines written for a television series that did not come to fruition. Lycett noted that, as Fleming was writing the television scripts and the short stories, \"Ian's mood of weariness and self-doubt was beginning to affect his writing\", which can be seen in Bond's thoughts.\n\nIn 1960 Fleming was commissioned by the Kuwait Oil Company to write a book on the country and its oil industry. The Kuwaiti Government disapproved of the typescript, \"State of Excitement: Impressions of Kuwait\", and it was never published. According to Fleming: \"The Oil Company expressed approval of the book but felt it their duty to submit the typescript to members of the Kuwait Government for their approval. The Sheikhs concerned found unpalatable certain mild comments and criticisms and particularly the passages referring to the adventurous past of the country which now wishes to be 'civilised' in every respect and forget its romantic origins.\"\n\nFleming followed the disappointment of \"For Your Eyes Only\" with \"Thunderball\", the novelization of a film script on which he had worked with others. The work had started in 1958 when Fleming's friend Ivar Bryce introduced him to a young Irish writer and director, Kevin McClory, and the three, together with Fleming and Bryce's friend Ernest Cuneo, worked on a script. In October McClory introduced experienced screenwriter Jack Whittingham to the newly formed team, and by December 1959 McClory and Whittingham sent Fleming a script. Fleming had been having second thoughts on McClory's involvement and, in January 1960, explained his intention of delivering the screenplay to MCA, with a recommendation from him and Bryce that McClory act as producer. He additionally told McClory that if MCA rejected the film because of McClory's involvement, then McClory should either sell himself to MCA, back out of the deal, or file a suit in court.\n\nWorking at Goldeneye between January and March 1960, Fleming wrote the novel \"Thunderball\", based on the screenplay written by himself, Whittingham and McClory. In March 1961 McClory read an advance copy, and he and Whittingham immediately petitioned the High Court in London for an injunction to stop publication. After two court actions, the second in November 1961, Fleming offered McClory a deal, settling out of court. McClory gained the literary and film rights for the screenplay, while Fleming was given the rights to the novel, provided it was acknowledged as \"based on a screen treatment by Kevin McClory, Jack Whittingham and the Author\".\n\nFleming's books had always sold well, but in 1961 sales increased dramatically. On 17 March 1961, four years after its publication and three years after the heavy criticism of \"Dr. No\", an article in \"Life\" listed \"From Russia, with Love\" as one of US President John F. Kennedy's ten favourite books. Kennedy and Fleming had previously met in Washington. This accolade and the associated publicity led to a surge in sales that made Fleming the biggest-selling crime writer in the US. Fleming considered \"From Russia, with Love\" to be his best novel; he said \"the great thing is that each one of the books seems to have been a favourite with one or other section of the public and none has yet been completely damned.\"\n\nIn April 1961, shortly before the second court case on \"Thunderball\", Fleming had a heart attack during a regular weekly meeting at \"The Sunday Times\". While he was convalescing, one of his friends, Duff Dunbar, gave him a copy of Beatrix Potter's \"The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin\" and suggested that he take the time to write up the bedtime story that Fleming used to tell to his son Caspar each evening. Fleming attacked the project with gusto and wrote to his publisher, Michael Howard of Jonathan Cape, joking that \"There is not a moment, even on the edge of the tomb, when I am not slaving for you\"; the result was Fleming's only children's novel, \"Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang\", which was published in October 1964, two months after his death.\n\nIn June 1961 Fleming sold a six-month option on the film rights to his published and future James Bond novels and short stories to Harry Saltzman. Saltzman formed the production vehicle Eon Productions along with Albert R. \"Cubby\" Broccoli, and after an extensive search, they hired Sean Connery on a five-film deal, beginning with \"Dr. No\" (1962). Connery's depiction of Bond affected the literary character; in \"You Only Live Twice\", the first book written after \"Dr. No\" was released, Fleming gave Bond a sense of humour that was not present in the previous stories.\n\nFleming's second non-fiction book was published in November 1963: \"Thrilling Cities\", a reprint of a series of \"Sunday Times\" articles based on Fleming's impressions of world cities in trips taken during 1959 and 1960. Approached in 1964 by producer Norman Felton to write a spy series for television, Fleming provided several ideas, including the names of characters Napoleon Solo and April Dancer, for the series \"The Man from U.N.C.L.E.\" However, Fleming withdrew from the project following a request from Eon Productions, who were keen to avoid any legal problems that might occur if the project overlapped with the Bond films.\n\nIn January 1964 Fleming went to Goldeneye for what proved to be his last holiday and wrote the first draft of \"The Man with the Golden Gun\". He was dissatisfied with it and wrote to William Plomer, the copy editor of his novels, asking for it to be rewritten. Fleming became increasingly unhappy with the book and considered rewriting it, but was dissuaded by Plomer, who considered it viable for publication.\n\nFleming was a heavy smoker and drinker throughout his adult life, and suffered from heart disease. In 1961, aged 53, he suffered a heart attack and struggled to recuperate. On 11 August 1964, while staying at a hotel in Canterbury, Fleming went to the Royal St George's Golf Club for lunch and later dined at his hotel with friends. The day had been tiring for him, and he collapsed with another heart attack shortly after the meal. Fleming died at age 56 in the early morning of 12 August 1964—his son Caspar's twelfth birthday. His last recorded words were an apology to the ambulance drivers for having inconvenienced them, saying \"I am sorry to trouble you chaps. I don't know how you get along so fast with the traffic on the roads these days.\" Fleming was buried in the churchyard of Sevenhampton, near Swindon.\n\nFleming's last two books, \"The Man with the Golden Gun\" and \"Octopussy and The Living Daylights\", were published posthumously. \"The Man with the Golden Gun\" was published eight months after Fleming's death and had not been through the full editing process by Fleming. As a result, the novel was thought by publishing company Jonathan Cape to be thin and \"feeble\". The publishers had passed the manuscript to Kingsley Amis to read on holiday, but did not use his suggestions. Fleming's biographer Henry Chandler observes that the novel \"received polite and rather sad reviews, recognising that the book had effectively been left half-finished, and as such did not represent Fleming at the top of his game\". The final Bond book, containing two short stories, \"Octopussy and The Living Daylights\", was published in Britain on 23 June 1966.\n\nIn October 1975, Fleming's son Caspar, aged 23, committed suicide by drug overdose and was buried with his father. Fleming's widow, Ann, died in 1981 and was buried with her husband and their son.\n\nThe author Raymond Benson, who later wrote a series of Bond novels, noted that Fleming's books fall into two distinct periods along stylistic lines. Those books written between 1953 and 1960 tend to concentrate on \"mood, character development, and plot advancement\", while those released between 1961 and 1966 incorporate more detail and imagery. Benson argues that Fleming had become \"a master storyteller\" by the time he wrote \"Thunderball\" in 1961.\n\nJeremy Black divides the series based on the villains Fleming created, a division supported by fellow academic Christoph Lindner. Thus the early books from \"Casino Royale\" to \"For Your Eyes Only\" are classed as \"Cold War stories\", with SMERSH as the antagonists, followed by Blofeld and SPECTRE as Bond's opponents in the three novels \"Thunderball\", \"On Her Majesty's Secret Service\" and \"You Only Live Twice\", after the thawing of East–West relations. Black and Lindner both classify the remaining books—\"The Man with the Golden Gun\", \"Octopussy and The Living Daylights\" and \"The Spy Who Loved Me\"—as \"the later Fleming stories\".\n\nFleming said of his work, \"while thrillers may not be Literature with a capital L, it is possible to write what I can best describe as 'thrillers designed to be read as literature. He named Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett, Eric Ambler and Graham Greene as influences. William Cook in the \"New Statesman\" considered James Bond to be \"the culmination of an important but much-maligned tradition in English literature. As a boy, Fleming devoured the Bulldog Drummond tales of Lieutenant Colonel H. C. McNeile (aka \"Sapper\") and the Richard Hannay stories of John Buchan. His genius was to repackage these antiquated adventures to fit the fashion of postwar Britain ... In Bond, he created a Bulldog Drummond for the jet age.\" Umberto Eco considered Mickey Spillane to have been another major influence.\n\nIn May 1963 Fleming wrote a piece for \"Books and Bookmen\" magazine in which he described his approach to writing Bond books: \"I write for about three hours in the morning ... and I do another hour's work between six and seven in the evening. I never correct anything and I never go back to see what I have written ... By following my formula, you write 2,000 words a day.\" Benson identified what he described as the \"Fleming Sweep\", the use of \"hooks\" at the end of chapters to heighten tension and pull the reader into the next. The hooks combine with what Anthony Burgess calls \"a heightened journalistic style\" to produce \"a speed of narrative, which hustles the reader past each danger point of mockery\".\n\nUmberto Eco analysed Fleming's works from a Structuralist point of view, and identified a series of oppositions within the storylines that provide structure and narrative, including:\n\nEco also noted that the Bond villains tend to come from Central Europe or from Slavic or Mediterranean countries and have a mixed heritage and \"complex and obscure origins\". Eco found that the villains were generally asexual or homosexual, inventive, organisationally astute, and wealthy. Black observed the same point: \"Fleming did not use class enemies for his villains instead relying on physical distortion or ethnic identity ... Furthermore, in Britain foreign villains used foreign servants and employees ... This racism reflected not only a pronounced theme of interwar adventure writing, such as the novels of Buchan, but also wider literary culture.\" Writer Louise Welsh found that the novel \"Live and Let Die\" \"taps into the paranoia that some sectors of white society were feeling\" as the civil rights movements challenged prejudice and inequality.\n\nFleming used well-known brand names and everyday details to support a sense of realism. Kingsley Amis called this \"the Fleming effect\", describing it as \"the imaginative use of information, whereby the pervading fantastic nature of Bond's world ... [is] bolted down to some sort of reality, or at least counter-balanced.\"\n\nThe Bond books were written in post-war Britain, when the country was still an imperial power. As the series progressed, the British Empire was in decline; journalist William Cook observed that \"Bond pandered to Britain's inflated and increasingly insecure self-image, flattering us with the fantasy that Britannia could still punch above her weight.\" This decline of British power was referred to in several of the novels; in \"From Russia, with Love\", it manifested itself in Bond's conversations with Darko Kerim, when Bond admits that in England, \"we don't show teeth any more—only gums.\" The theme is strongest in one of the later books of the series, the 1964 novel \"You Only Live Twice\", in conversations between Bond and the head of Japan's secret intelligence service, Tiger Tanaka. Fleming was acutely aware of the loss of British prestige in the 1950s and early 60s, particularly during the Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation, when he had Tanaka accuse Britain of throwing away the empire \"with both hands\".\n\nBlack points to the defections of four members of MI6 to the Soviet Union as having a major impact on how Britain was viewed in US intelligence circles. The last of the defections was that of Kim Philby in January 1963, while Fleming was still writing the first draft of \"You Only Live Twice\". The briefing between Bond and M is the first time in the twelve books that Fleming acknowledges the defections. Black contends that the conversation between M and Bond allows Fleming to discuss the decline of Britain, with the defections and the Profumo Affair of 1963 as a backdrop. Two of the defections had taken place shortly before Fleming wrote \"Casino Royale\", and the book can be seen as the writer's \"attempt to reflect the disturbing moral ambiguity of a post-war world that could produce traitors like Burgess and Maclean\", according to Lycett.\n\nBy the end of the series, in the 1965 novel, \"The Man with the Golden Gun\", Black notes that an independent inquiry was undertaken by the Jamaican judiciary, while the CIA and MI6 were recorded as acting \"under the closest liaison and direction of the Jamaican CID\": this was the new world of a non-colonial, independent Jamaica, further underlining the decline of the British Empire. The decline was also reflected in Bond's use of US equipment and personnel in several novels. Uncertain and shifting geopolitics led Fleming to replace the Russian organisation SMERSH with the international terrorist group SPECTRE in \"Thunderball\", permitting \"evil unconstrained by ideology\". Black argues that SPECTRE provides a measure of continuity to the remaining stories in the series.\n\nA theme throughout the series was the effect of the Second World War. \"The Times\" journalist Ben Macintyre considers that Bond was \"the ideal antidote to Britain's postwar austerity, rationing and the looming premonition of lost power\", at a time when coal and many items of food were still rationed. Fleming often used the war as a signal to establish good or evil in characters: in \"For Your Eyes Only\", the villain, Hammerstein, is a former Gestapo officer, while the sympathetic Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer, Colonel Johns, served with the British under Montgomery in the Eighth Army. Similarly, in \"Moonraker\", Drax (Graf Hugo von der Drache) is a \"megalomaniac German Nazi who masquerades as an English gentleman\", and his assistant, Krebs, bears the same name as Hitler's last Chief of Staff. In this, Fleming \"exploits another British cultural antipathy of the 1950s. Germans, in the wake of the Second World War, made another easy and obvious target for bad press.\" As the series progressed, the threat of a re-emergent Germany was overtaken by concerns about the Cold War, and the novels changed their focus accordingly.\n\nPeriodically in the series, the topic of comradeship or friendship arises, with a male ally who works with Bond on his mission. Raymond Benson believes that the relationships Bond has with his allies \"add another dimension to Bond's character, and ultimately, to the thematic continuity of the novels\". In \"Live and Let Die\", agents Quarrel and Leiter represent the importance of male friends and allies, seen especially in Bond's response to the shark attack on Leiter; Benson observes that \"the loyalty Bond feels towards his friends is as strong as his commitment to his job\". In \"Dr. No\", Quarrel is \"an indispensable ally\". Benson sees no evidence of discrimination in their relationship and notes Bond's genuine remorse and sadness at Quarrel's death.\n\nFrom the opening novel in the series, the theme of treachery was strong. Bond's target in \"Casino Royale\", Le Chiffre, was the paymaster of a French communist trade union, and the overtones of a fifth column struck a chord with the largely British readership, as Communist influence in the trade unions had been an issue in the press and parliament, especially after the defections of Burgess and Maclean in 1951. The \"traitor within\" theme continued in \"Live and Let Die\" and \"Moonraker\".\n\nRaymond Benson considered the most obvious theme of the series to be good versus evil. This crystallised in \"Goldfinger\" with the Saint George motif, which is stated explicitly in the book: \"Bond sighed wearily. Once more into the breach, dear friend! This time, it really was St George and the dragon. And St George had better get a move on and do something\"; Black notes that the image of St. George is an English, rather than British personification.\n\nThe Bond novels also dealt with the question of Anglo-American relations, reflecting the central role of the US in the defence of the West. In the aftermath of the Second World War, tensions surfaced between a British government trying to retain its empire and the American desire for a capitalist new world order, but Fleming did not focus on this directly, instead creating \"an impression of the normality of British imperial rule and action\". Author and journalist Christopher Hitchens observed that \"the central paradox of the classic Bond stories is that, although superficially devoted to the Anglo-American war against communism, they are full of contempt and resentment for America and Americans\". Fleming was aware of this tension between the two countries, but did not focus on it strongly. Kingsley Amis, in his exploration of Bond in \"The James Bond Dossier\", pointed out that \"Leiter, such a nonentity as a piece of characterization ... he, the American, takes orders from Bond, the Britisher, and that Bond is constantly doing better than he\".\n\nFor three of the novels, \"Goldfinger\", \"Live and Let Die\" and \"Dr. No\", it is Bond the British agent who has to sort out what turns out to be an American problem, and Black points out that although it is American assets that are under threat in \"Dr. No\", a British agent and a British warship, HMS \"Narvik\", are sent with British soldiers to the island at the end of the novel to settle the matter. Fleming became increasingly jaundiced about America, and his comments in the penultimate novel \"You Only Live Twice\" reflect this; Bond's responses to Tanaka's comments reflect the declining relationship between Britain and America—in sharp contrast to the warm, co-operative relationship between Bond and Leiter in the earlier books.\n\nIn the late 1950s the author Geoffrey Jenkins had suggested to Fleming that he write a Bond novel set in South Africa, and sent him his own idea for a plot outline which, according to Jenkins, Fleming felt had great potential. After Fleming's death, Jenkins was commissioned by Bond publishers Glidrose Productions to write a continuation Bond novel, \"Per Fine Ounce\", but it was never published. Starting with Kingsley Amis's \"Colonel Sun\", under the pseudonym \"Robert Markham\" in 1968, several authors have been commissioned to write Bond novels, including Sebastian Faulks, who was asked by Ian Fleming Publications to write a new Bond novel in observance of what would have been Fleming's 100th birthday in 2008.\n\nDuring his lifetime Fleming sold thirty million books; double that number were sold in the two years following his death. In 2008 \"The Times\" ranked Fleming fourteenth on its list of \"The 50 greatest British writers since 1945\". In 2002 Ian Fleming Publications announced the launch of the CWA Ian Fleming Steel Dagger award, presented by the Crime Writers' Association to the best thriller, adventure or spy novel originally published in the UK.\n\nThe Eon Productions series of Bond films, which started in 1962 with \"Dr. No\", continued after Fleming's death. Along with two non-Eon produced films, there have been twenty four Eon films, with the most recent, \"Spectre\", released in October 2015. The Eon Productions series has grossed over $6.2 billion worldwide, making it one of the highest-grossing film series.\n\nThe influence of Bond in the cinema and in literature is evident in films and books including \"Austin Powers\" series, \"Carry On Spying\" and the Jason Bourne character. In 2011 Fleming became the first English-language writer to have an international airport named after him: Ian Fleming International Airport, near Oracabessa, Jamaica, was officially opened on 12 January 2011 by Jamaican Prime Minister Bruce Golding and Fleming's niece, Lucy.\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n\nReferences\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "272074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272074", "title": "Ibn Taymiyyah", "text": "Ibn Taymiyyah\n\nTaqī ad-Dīn Ahmad ibn Taymiyyah (Arabic: تقي الدين أحمد ابن تيمية, January 22, 1263 - September 26, 1328), known as Ibn Taymiyyah for short, was a controversial medieval Sunni Muslim theologian, jurisconsult, logician, and reformer. A member of the Hanbali school of jurisprudence founded by Ahmad ibn Hanbal, Ibn Taymiyyah was also a member of the Qadiriyya Sufi order founded by the twelfth-century mystic and saint Abdul-Qadir Gilani. A polarizing figure in his own lifetime, Ibn Taymiyyah's iconoclastic views on widely accepted Sunni doctrines such as the veneration of saints and the visitation to their tomb-shrines made him unpopular with the majority of the orthodox religious scholars of the time, under whose orders he was imprisoned several times.\n\nOften viewed as a minority figure in his own times and in the centuries that followed, Ibn Taymiyyah has become one of the most influential medieval writers in contemporary Islam, where his particular interpretations of the Qur'an and the Sunnah and his rejection of some aspects of classical Islamic tradition are believed to have had considerable influence on contemporary Wahhabism, Salafism, and Jihadism. Indeed, particular aspects of his teachings had a profound influence on Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, the founder of the Hanbali reform movement practiced in Saudi Arabia known as Wahhabism, and on other later Wahabi scholars. Moreover, Ibn Taymiyyah's controversial fatwa allowing jihad against other Muslims is referenced by al-Qaeda and other jihadi groups.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's full name is \"Taqī ad-Dīn Abu 'l-`Abbās Ahmad ibn `Abd al-Ḥalīm ibn `Abd as-Salām ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn al-Khidr ibn Muhammad ibn al-Khidr ibn `Ali ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn Taymiyyah al-Ḥarrānī\" ().\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's name is unusual in that it is derived from a female member of his family as opposed to a male member, which was the normal custom at the time and still is now. Taymiyyah was a woman, famous for her scholarship and piety and the name Ibn Taymiyyah was taken up by many of her male descendants.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah had a simple life, most of which he dedicated to learning, writing, and teaching. He never married nor did he have a female companion, throughout his years. Al-Matroudi says that this may be why he was able to engage fully with the political affairs of his time without holding any official position such as that of a judge. An offer of an official position was made to him but he never accepted. His life was that of a religious scholar and a political activist. In his efforts he was persecuted and imprisoned on six different occasions with the total time spent inside prison coming to over six years. Other sources say that he spent over twelve years in prison. His detentions were due to certain elements of his creed and his views on some jurisprudential issues. However according to Yahya Michot, \"the real reasons were more trivial\". Michot gives five reasons as to why Ibn Taymiyyah was imprisoned, they being: not complying with the \"doctrines and practices prevalent among powerful religious and Sufi establishments, an overly outspoken personality, the jealousy of his peers, the risk to public order due to this popular appeal and political intrigues.\" Baber Johansen, a professor at the Harvard divinity school says that the reasons for Ibn Taymiyyah's incarcerations were, \"as a result of his conflicts with Muslim mystics, jurists, and theologians, who were able to persuade the political authorities of the necessity to limit Ibn Taymiyyah's range of action through political censorship and incarceration.\"\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's own relationship, as a religious scholar, with the ruling apparatus, who did deviate in application of shari'a law, was not always amicable. It ranged from silence to open rebellion. On occasions when he shared the same views and aims as the ruling authorities, his contributions were welcomed but when Ibn Taymiyyah went against the status quo, he was seen as \"uncooperative\" and on occasions spent much time in prison. Ibn Taymiyyah's attitude towards his own rulers, was based on the actions of the companions (sahaba) when they made an oath of allegiance to Muhammad as follows; \"to obey within obedience to God, even if the one giving the order is unjust; to abstain from disputing the authority of those who exert it; and to speak out the truth, or take up its cause without fear in respect of God, of blame from anyone.\"\n\nHis father had the Hanbali chair in Harran and later at the Great mosque of Damascus (Umayyad Mosque). Harran was a city part of the Sultanate of Rum, now Harran is a small city on the border of Syria and Turkey, currently in Şanlıurfa province, a place to which Moses was reportedly sent to provide guidance. Before its destruction by the Mongols, Harran was also well known since the early days of Islam for its Hanbali school and tradition, to which Ibn Taymiyyah's family belonged. His grandfather, Abu al-Barkat Majd ad-Din ibn Taymiyyah al-Hanbali (d. 1255) and his uncle, Fakhr al-Din (d. 1225) were reputable scholars of the Hanbali school of law. Likewise, the scholarly achievements of ibn Taymiyyah's father, Shihab al-deen 'Abd al-Halim ibn Taymiyyah (d. 1284) were also well known. According to the book 'Rethinking Islamic Studies' edited by Carl W. Ernst and Richard C. Martin, Ibn Taymiyyah believed, non-Arab Muslims are inferior to Arab Muslims.\n\nIn 1269, Ibn Taymiyyah, at the age of seven together with his father and three brothers left the city of Harran which was completely destroyed by the ensuing Mongol invasion. Ibn Taymiyyah's family moved and settled in Damascus, Syria, which at the time was ruled by the Mamluks of Egypt.\n\nIn Damascus, his father served as the director of the Sukkariyya madrasa, a place where Ibn Taymiyyah also received his early education. Ibn Taymiyyah acquainted himself with the religious and secular sciences of his time. His religious studies began in his early teens, when he committed the entire Qur'an to memory and later on came to learn the Islamic disciplines of the Qur'an. From his father he learnt the religious science of Fiqh (jurisprudence) and Usul al-Fiqh (principles of jurisprudence). Ibn Taymiyyah learnt the works of Ahmad ibn Hanbal, al-Khallal, Ibn Qudamah and also the works of his grandfather, Abu al-Barakat Majd ad-Din. His study of jurisprudence was not limited to the Hanbali tradition but he also learnt the other schools of jurisprudence.\n\nThe number of scholars under which he studied Hadith is said to number more than two hundred, four of whom were women. Those who are known by name amount to forty hadith teachers, as recorded by Ibn Taymiyyah in his book called \"Arba`un Hadithan\". Serajul Haque says, based on this, Ibn Taymiyyah started to hear hadith from the age of five. One of his teachers was the first Hanbali Chief Justice of Syria, Shams ud-Din Al-Maqdisi who held the newly created position instituted by Baibars as part of a reform of the judiciary. Al-Maqdisi later on, came to give Ibn Taymiyyah permission to issue Fatawa (legal verdicts) when he became a mufti at the age of 17.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's secular studies led him to devote attention to Arabic language and Arabic literature by studying Arabic grammar and lexicography under Ali ibn `Abd al-Qawi al-Tuft. He went on to master the famous book of Arabic grammar, Al-Kitab, by the Persian grammarian Sibawayhi. He also studied mathematics, algebra, calligraphy, theology (kalam), philosophy, history and heresiography. The knowledge he gained from history and philosophy, he used to refute the prevalent philosophical discourses of his time, one of which was Aristotelian philosophy. Ibn Taymiyyah learnt about Sufism and stated that he had reflected on the works of; Sahl al-Tustari, Junayd of Baghdad, Abu Talib al-Makki, Abdul-Qadir Gilani, Abu Hafs Umar al-Suhrawardi and Ibn Arabi. At the age of 20 in the year 1282, Ibn Taymiyyah completed his education.\n\nAfter his father died in 1284, he took up the then vacant post as the head of the Sukkariyya madrasa and began giving lessons on Hadith. A year later he started giving lessons, as chair of the Hanbali Zawiya on Fridays at the Umayyad Mosque, on Fridays, on the subject of tafsir (exegesis of Qur'an). In November 1292, Ibn Taymiyyah performed the Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca) and when he returned 4 months later, he wrote his first book aged twenty nine called \"Manasik al-Hajj\" (Rites of the Pilgrimage), in which he criticized and condemned the bid'ah's (innovations) which he saw take place there. Ibn Taymiyyah represented the Hanbali school of thought during this time. The Hanbali school was seen as the most traditional school out of the four legal systems (Hanafi, Maliki and Shafii) because it was \"suspicious of the Hellenist disciplines of philosophy and speculative theology.\" He remained faithful throughout his life to this school, whose doctrines he had mastered, but he nevertheless called for ijtihad (independent reasoning by one who is qualified) and discouraged taqlid.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's emergence into the public and political sphere began in 1293 at the age of 30, when he was asked by the authorities to give an Islamic legal verdict (Fatwa) on Assaf al-Nasrani, a Christian cleric accused of insulting Muhammad. He accepted the invitation and delivered his fatwa, calling for the man to receive the death penalty. Despite the fact that public opinion was very much on Ibn Taymiyyah's side, the Governor of Syria attempted to resolve the situation by asking Assaf to accept Islam in return for his life, to which he agreed. This resolution was not acceptable to Ibn Taymiyyah who then, together with his followers, protested outside the Governor's palace demanding Assaf be put to death, on the grounds that any person—Muslim or non-Muslim—who insults Muhammad must be killed. This unwillingness to compromise coupled with his attempt to protest against the Governor's actions, resulted in him being punished with a prison sentence, the first of many such imprisonments to come. The French orientalist Henri Laoust says that during this incarceration Ibn Taymiyyah \"wrote his first great work, \"al-Ṣārim al-maslūl ʿalā s̲h̲ātim al-Rasūl (The Drawn Sword against those who insult the Messenger).\"\" Ibn Taymiyyah, together with the help of his disciples, continued with his efforts against what, \"he perceived to be un-Islamic practices\" and to implement what he saw as his religious duty of commanding good and forbidding wrong. Yahya Michot says that some of these incidences included: \"shaving children's heads\", leading \"an anti-debauchery campaign in brothels and taverns\", hitting an atheist before his public execution, destroying what was thought to be a sacred rock in a mosque, attacking astrologers and obliging \"deviant Sufi Shaykhs to make public acts of contrition and to adhere to the Sunnah.\" Ibn Taymiyyah and his disciples used to condemn wine sellers and they would attack wine shops in Damascus by breaking wine bottles and pouring them onto the floor.\n\nA few years later in 1296, he took over the position of one of his teachers (Zayn al-Din Ibn al-Munadjdjaal), taking the post of professor of Hanbali jurisprudence at the Hanbaliyya madrasa, the oldest such institution of this tradition in Damascus. This is seen by some to be the peak of his scholarly career. The year he began his post at the Hanbaliyya madrasa, was a time of political turmoil. The Mamluk sultan Al-Adil Kitbugha was deposed by his vice-sultan Al-Malik al-Mansur Lajin who then ruled from 1297 to 1299. Lajin had a desire to commission an expedition against the Christians of the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia who formed an alliance with the Mongol Empire and taking part of the military campaign which lead to the destruction of Baghdad the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate and Harran the birthplace of Ibn Taymiyyah, for that purpose he urged Ibn Taymiyyah to call the Muslims to Jihad.\n\nIn 1298, Ibn Taymiyyah wrote an explanation of the ayat al-mutashabihat (the unclear verses of the Qur'an) called Al-`Aqidat al-Hamawiyat al-Kubra (The creed of the great people of Hama). The book is about divine attributes and it served as an answer to a question from the city of Hama, Syria. At that particular time Ash'arites held prominent positions within the Islamic scholarly community in both Syria and Egypt, and they held a certain position on the divine attributes of God. Ibn Taymiyyah in his book strongly disagreed with their views and this heavy opposition to the common Ash'ari position, caused considerable controversy.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah collaborated once more with the Mamluks in 1300, when he joined the expedition against the Alawites , in the Kasrawan region of the Lebanese mountains. Ibn Taymiyyah thought of the Alawites as \"more heritical yet than Jews and Christians,\" (بالنصيرية هم وسائر أصناف القرامطة الباطنية أكفر من اليهود والنصارى ; بل وأكفر من كثير من المشركين), and according to Carole Hillenbrand, the confrontation with the Alawites resulted because they \"were accused of collaboration with Christians and Mongols.\" Ibn Taymiyya had further active involvements in campaigns against the Mongols and their alleged Alawite allies.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah took part in a second military offensive in 1305 against the Alawites and the Isma`ilis in the Kasrawan region of the Lebanese mountains where they were defeated. The Alawis eventually left the region to settle in southern Lebanon.\n\nThe first invasion took place between December 1299 and April 1300 due to the military campaign by the Mamluks against the Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia who were allied with the Mongols. The Ilkhanate army managed to reach Damascus by the end of December 1299. Ibn Taymiyyah went with a delegation of Islamic scholars to talk to Ghazan Khan, who was the Khan of the Mongol Ilkhanate of Iran, to plead clemency and to stop his attack on the Muslims. It is reported that none of the scholars said anything to the Khan except Ibn Taymiyyah who said:\n\nYou claim that you are Muslim and you have with you Mu'adhdhins, Muftis, Imams and Shaykhs but you invaded us and reached our country for what? While your father and your grandfather, Hulagu were non-believers, they did not attack and they kept their promise. But you promised and broke your promise.\n\nBy early January 1300, the Mongol allies, the Armenians and Georgians, had caused widespread damage to Damascus and they had taken Syrian prisoners. The Mongols effectively occupied Damascus for the first four months of 1303. Most of the military had fled the city, including most of the civilians. Ibn Taymiyyah however, stayed and was one of the leaders of the resistance inside Damascus and he went to speak directily to the Mongol Ilkhan Mahmud Ghazan and his vizier Rashid al-Din Tabib. He sought the release of Muslim and dhimmi prisoners which the Mongols had taken in Syria, and after discussion, secured their release.\n\nThe second invasion lasted between October 1300 and January 1301. Ibn Taymiyyah at this time began giving sermons on Jihad at the Umayyad mosque. Ibn Taymiyyah also spoke to and encouraged the Governor of Damscus, al-Afram to achieve a victory against the Mongols. He became involved with al-Afram once more, when he was sent to get reinforcements from Cairo.\n\nThe year 1303 saw the third Mongol invasion of Syria by Ghazan Khan. What has been called Ibn Taymiyyah's \"most famous\" \"fatwā\" was issued against the Mongols in the Mamluk's war. Ibn Taymiyyah declared that jihad against the Mongol attack on the Malmuk sultanate was not only permissible, but obligatory. The reason being that the Mongols could not, in his opinion, be true Muslims despite the fact that they had converted to Sunni Islam because they ruled using what he considered 'man-made laws' (their traditional Yassa code) rather than Islamic law or \"Sharia\", whilst believing that the Yassa code was better than the Sharia law. Because of this, he reasoned they were living in a state of jahiliyyah, or pre-Islamic pagan ignorance. The fatwa broke new Islamic legal ground because \"no jurist had ever before issued a general authorization for the use of lethal force against Muslims in battle,\" and was to influence modern Islamists in the use of violence against self-proclaimed Muslims.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah called on the Muslims to Jihad once again and he also personally joined the eventual battle of Marj al-Saffar against the Mongol army. The battle began on 20 April of that year. On the same day, Ibn Taymiyyah declared a fatwa which exempted Mamluk soldiers from the fast during the month of Ramadan so that they could maintain their strength. Within two days the Mongols were severely defeated and the battle was won.\n\nIbn Taymiyah was imprisoned several times for conflicting with the \"ijma\" of jurists and theologians of his day. From the city of Wasit, Iraq, a judge requested that Ibn Taymiyyah write a book on creed which led to him writing his book, for which he faced troubles, called \"Al-Aqidah Al-Waasitiyyah, \"a work on\" \"his view of the creed (`aqidah) of the salaf which included reference to the divine attributes of God. Ibn Taymiyyah adopted the view that God should be described as he was literally described in the Qur'an and in the hadith, and that all Muslims were required to believe this because according to him it was the view held by the early Muslim community (salaf). Within the space of two years (1305–1306) four separate religious council hearings were held to assess the correctness of his creed.\n\nThe first hearing was held with the Shafii scholars who accused Ibn Taymiyyah of anthropomorphism. At the time Ibn Taymiyyah was 42 years old. He was protected by the then Governor of Damascus, Aqqush al-Afram, during the proceedings. The scholars suggested that he accept that his creed was simply that of the Hanbalites and offered this as a way out of the charge. The issue being, if Ibn Taymiyyah ascribed his creed to the Hanbali school of law then it would be just one view out of the four schools which one could follow rather than a creed everybody must adhere to. Ibn Taymiyyah was uncompromising and maintained that it was obligatory for all scholars to adhere to his creed.\n\nTwo separate councils were held a year later on 22 and 28 of January 1306. The first council was in the house of the Governor of Damascus Aqqush al-Afram, who had protected him the year before when facing the Shafii scholars. A second hearing was held six days later where the Indian scholar Safi al-Din al-Hindi found him innocent of all charges and accepted that his creed was in line with the \"Qur'an and the Sunna\". Regardless, in April 1306 the chief Islamic judges of the Mamluk state declared Ibn Taymiyyah guilty and he was incarcerated. He was released four months later in September.\n\nAfter his release in Damascus, the doubts regarding his creed seemed to have resolved but this was not the case. A Shafii scholar, Ibn al-Sarsari, was insistent on starting another hearing against Ibn Taymiyyah which was held once again at the house of the Governor of Damascus, Al-Afram. His book \"Al-Aqidah Al-Waasitiyyah\" was still not found at fault. At the conclusion of this hearing, Ibn Taymiyyah and Ibn al-Sarsari were sent to Cairo to settle the problem.\n\nOn arrival of Ibn Taymiyyah and the Shafi'ite scholar in Cairo in 1306, an open meeting was held. The Sultan of Egypt at the time was Al-Nasir Muhammad and his deputy attended the open meeting. Ibn Taymiyyah was found innocent. Despite the open meeting, objections regarding his creed continued and he was summoned to the Citadel in Cairo for a Munazara (legal debate), which took place on 8 April 1306. During the Munazara his views on divine attributes, specifically whether a direction could be attributed to God, were debated by the Indian Scholar Safi al-Din al-Hindi, in the presence of Islamic judges. Ibn Taymiyyah failed to convince the judges of his position and so on the recommendation of Al-Hindi was incarcerated for the charge of anthropomorphism. Thereafter, he together with his two brothers were imprisoned in the Citadel of the mountain (Qal'at al-Jabal), in Cairo until 25 September 1307. He was freed due to the help he received from two Amirs (ruler or military ruler); Salar and Muhanna ibn Isa, but he was not allowed to go back to Syria. He was then, again summoned for a legal debate but this time he convinced the judges of his views and he was allowed to go free.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah continued to face troubles for his views which were found to be at odds with those of his contemporaries. His strong opposition to what he believed to be un-Islamic innovation (bid'ah), caused upset among the prominent Sufis of Egypt including Ibn `Ata'Allah and Karim al-Din al-Amuli, and the locals who started to protest against Ibn Taymiyyah. The nature of the point under contention was Ibn Taymiyyah's stance on tawassul (intercession). In his view a person could not ask anyone other than God for help except on the day of judgement when intercession in his view would be possible. At the time, the people did not restrict intercession to just the day of judgement but rather they said it was allowed in other cases. Due to this Ibn Taymiyyah, now 45, was ordered to appear before the Shafii judge Badr al-Din in March 1308 and was questioned on his stance regarding intercession. Thereafter, he was incarcerated in the prison of the judges in Cairo for some months. After his release, he was allowed to return to Syria, should he so wish. Ibn Taymiyyah however stayed in Egypt for a further 5 years.\n\nThe year after his release in 1309 saw a change of power to a new Sultan in Egypt, Baibars al-Jashnakir whose reign was marked by economical and political unrest. His hold on power was short lived and lasted only a year. During this time, in August 1309, Ibn Taymiyyah was taken into custody and placed under house arrest for seven months in the new sultan's palace in Alexandria. He was freed when Al-Nasir Muhammad retook the position of sultan on 4 March 1310. Having returned to Cairo a week later, he was received by the sultan Al-Nasir. The sultan would sometimes consult Ibn Taymiyyah on religious affairs and policies during the rest of his three-year stay in Cairo. During this time he continued to teach and wrote his famous book Al-\"Kitab al-Siyasa al-shar'iyya\" \"(Treatise on the Government of the Religious Law)\", a book noted for its account of the role of religion in politics.\n\nHe spent his last fifteen years in Damascus. Ibn Taymiyyah at the age of 50 returned to Damascus on 28 February 1313 by way of Jerusalem. Damascus was now under the governorship of Tankiz. In Damascus Ibn Taymiyyah continued his teaching role as professor of Hanbali fiqh. This is when he taught his most famous student, Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya, who went on to become a noted scholar in Islamic history. Ibn Qayyim was to share in Ibn Taymiyyah's renewed persecution.\n\nThree years after his arrival in the city, Ibn Taymiyyah became involved in efforts to deal with the increasing Shia influence amongst Sunni Muslims. An agreement had been made in 1316 between the amir of Mecca and the Ilkhanate ruler Öljaitü, brother of Ghazan Khan, to allow a favourable policy towards Shi'ism in Mecca, a city that houses the holiest site in Islam, the Kaaba. Around the same time the Shia theologian Al-Hilli, who had played a crucial role in the Mongol rulers decision to make Shi'ism the state religion of Persia, wrote the book, \"Minhaj al-Karamah\"\" (\"The Way of Charisma'), which dealt with the Shia doctrine of the Imamate and also served as a refutation of the Sunni doctrine of the caliphate. To counter this Ibn Taymiyyah wrote his famous book, \"Minhaj as-Sunnah an-Nabawiyyah\", as a refutation of Al-Hilli's work.\n\nIn 1318, Ibn Taymiyyah wrote a treatise that would curtail the ease with which a Muslim man could divorce his wife. Ibn Taymiyyah's fatwa on divorce was not accepted by the majority of scholars of the time and this continued into the Ottoman era. However, almost every modern Muslim nation-state has come to adopt Ibn Taymiyyah's position on this issue of divorce. At the time he issued the fatwa, Ibn Taymiyyah revived an edict by the sultan not to issue fatwas on this issue but he continued to do so, saying, \"I cannot conceal my knowledge\". As in previous instances, he stated that his fatwa was based on the Qur'an and hadith. His view on the issue was at odds with the Hanbali doctrine. This proved controversial among the people in Damascus as well as the Islamic scholars and the authorities who were against him on the issue.\n\nAccording to the scholars of the time, an oath of divorce counted as a full divorce and they were also of the view that three oaths of divorce taken under one occasion counted as three separate divorces. The significance of this was, that a man who divorces the same partner three times is no longer allowed to remarry that person until and if that person marries and divorces another man. Only then could the man, who took the oath, remarry his previous wife. Ibn Taymiyyah accepted this but rejected the validity of three oaths taken under one sitting to count as three separate divorces as long as the intention was not to divorce. Moreover, Ibn Taymiyyah was of the view that a single oath of divorce uttered but not intended, also does not count as an actual divorce. He stated that since this is an oath much like an oath taken in the name of God, a person must expiate for an unintentional oath in a similar manner.\n\nDue to his views and also by not abiding to the sultan's letter two years before forbidding him from issuing a fatwa on the issue, three council hearing were held, in as many years (1318, 1319 and 1320), to deal with this matter. The hearing were overseen by the Viceroy of Syria, Tankiz. This resulted in Ibn Taymiyyah being imprisoned on 26 August 1320 in the Citadel of Damascus. He was released about five months and 8 days later, on 9 February 1321, by order of the Sultan Al-Nasir. Ibn Taymiyyah was reinstated as teacher of Hanbali law and he resumed teaching.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah had written a \"risāla\" (a treatise) in 1310 called \"Ziyārat al-ḳubūr\" or according to another source, \"Shadd al-rihal\". It dealt with the validity and permissibility of making a journey to visit the tombs of prophets and saints (Wali). It is reported that in the book \"he condemned the cult of saints\". He declared that, the one who visits the Prophet's grave commits innovation (bidah). Criticism of the book arose after nearly 16 years of Ibn Taymiyyah writing it and he was arrested and imprisoned at the age of 63, on 18 July 1326, in the Citadel of Damascus with an order from the sultan also prohibiting him from issuing any further fatwas. The reason for his arrest was his declaration that the one who travels to visit the Prophet's grave commits innovation (\"bidah\"). Hanbali scholar Aḥmad ibn Umar al-Maqdisī asserted Ibn Taymiyah to be a kafir over the Ziyara fatwa. His student Ibn Qayyim was also imprisoned with him in the Citadel.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah referred to prison as \"a divine blessing\". During his incarceration he wrote that, \"when a scholar forsakes what he knows of the Book of God and of the sunnah of his messenger and follows the ruling of a ruler which contravenes a ruling of God and his messenger, he is a renegade, an unbeliever who deserves to be punished in this world and in the hereafter.\"\n\nWhilst in prison he faced opposition from the Maliki and Shafii Chief Justices of Damascus, Taḳī al-Dīn al-Ik̲h̲nāʾī. He remained in prison for over two years and ignored the sultan's prohibition, by continuing to deliver fatwas. During his incarceration Ibn Taymiyyah wrote three works which are extant; \"Kitāb Maʿārif al-wuṣūl, Rafʿ al-malām\", and \"Kitāb al-Radd ʿala 'l-Ik̲h̲nāʾī\" (The response to al-Ik̲h̲nāʾī). The last book was an attack on Taḳī al-Dīn al-Ik̲h̲nāʾī and explained his views on saints (wali).\n\nIbn Taymiyyah fell ill in early September 1328 and died at the age of 65, on 26 September of that year, whilst in prison at the Citadel in Damascus. Once this news reached the public, there was a strong show of support for him from the people. After the authorities had given permission, it is reported that thousands of people came to show their respects. They gathered in the Citadel and lined the streets up to the Umayyad mosque which was and is still close by. A Janaza (funeral prayer) was held in the citadel by the sheikh, Muhammad Tammam, and a second was held in the mosque. A third and final funeral prayer was held by Ibn Taymiyyah's brother, the sheikh, Zain al-Din. He was buried in Damascus, in \"Maqbara Sufiyya\" (the cemetery of the Sufis). His brother Sharafuddin had been buried in that cemetery before him.\n\nOliver Leaman says that being deprived of the means of writing led to Ibn Taymiyyah's death. It is reported that two hundred thousand men and fifteen to sixteen thousand women attended his funeral prayer. Ibn Kathir says that in the history of Islam, only the funeral of Ahmad ibn Hanbal received a larger attendance. This is also mentioned by Ibn `Abd al-Hadi. Caterina Bori says that, \"In the Islamic tradition, wider popular attendance at funerals was a mark of public reverence, a demonstration of the deceased's rectitude, and a sign of divine approbation.\"\n\nIbn Taymiyya is said to have \"spent a lifetime objecting to tomb veneration, only to cast a more powerful posthumous spell than any of his Sufi contemporaries.\" On his death, his personal effects were in such demand \"that bidders for his lice-killing camphor necklace pushed its price up to 150 dirhams, and his skullcap fetched a full 500.\" A few mourners sought and succeeded in \"drinking the water used for bathing his corpse.\" His tomb received \"pilgrims and sightseers\" for 600 years. Almost 600 years after his death, the large Sufi cemetery where he was buried in was razed for redevelopment by French colonial authorities. His grave alone was left untouched after the Arab demolition teams \"insisted\" that his grave \"was too holy to touch.\" His resting place is now \"in the parking lot of a maternity ward\", though as of 2009 its headstone was broken, according to author Sadakat Kadri.\n\nAmong those Ibn Taymiyyah taught, some went on to become accomplished Islamic Scholars. His students came from different backgrounds and belonged to various different schools (madhabs). His most famous students were Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya and Ibn Kathir. Ibn Qayyim wrote the famous poem \"O Christ-Worshipper\" which examined the dogma of the Trinity propounded by many Christian sects. Ibn Kathir became an influential scholar who wrote one of the most famous tafsīr's of the Qur'an called, Tafsir Ibn Kathir. His other students include:\n\nMany scholars have argued that Ibn Taymiyyah did not enjoy popularity among the intelligentsia of his day. Yossef Rapoport and Shahab Ahmed assert that he was a minority figure in his own times and the centuries that followed. Caterina Bori goes further, arguing that despite popularity Ibn Taymiyya may have enjoyed among the masses, he appears to have been not merely unpopular among the scholars of his day, but somewhat of an embarrassment. Khalid El-Rouayheb notes similarly that Ibn Taymiyyah had \"very little influence on mainstream Sunni Islam until the nineteenth century.\" and that he was \"a little-read scholar with problematic and controversial views\" and that \"The idea that Ibn Taymiyyah had an immediate and significant impact on the course of Sunni Islamic religious history simply does not cohere with the evidence that we have from the five centuries that elapsed between his death and the rise of Sunni revivialism in the modern period.\" On the other hand, Prof. Al-Matroudi of SOAS university says that Ibn Taymiyyah, \"was perhaps the most eminent and influential Ḥanbalī jurist of the Middle Ages and one of the most prolific among them. He was also a renowned scholar of Islam whose influence was felt not only during his lifetime but extended through the centuries until the present day.\" \nIbn Taymiyyah's followers often deemed him as Sheikh ul-Islam, an honorific title with which he is sometimes still termed today.\n\nIn the pre-modern era, Ibn Taymiyyah was considered a controversial figure within Sunni Islam and had a number of critics during his life and in the centuries thereafter. The Shafi'i scholar Ibn Hajar al-Haytami stated that,\n\nHe also stated that,\n\nTaqi al-Din al-Hisni condemned Ibn Taymiyya in even stronger terms by referring to him as the \"heretic from Harran\" and similarly, Munawi considered Ibn Taymiyyah to be an innovator though not an unbeliever. Taqi al-Din al-Subki criticised Ibn Taymiyyah for \"contradicting the consensus of the Muslims by his anthropomorphism, by his claims that accidents exist in God, by suggesting that God was speaking in time, and by his belief in the eternity of the world.\" Ibn Battūta (d. 770/1369) famously wrote a work questioning Ibn Taymiyyah's mental state. The possibility of psychological abnormalities not with-standing, Ibn Taymiyya's personality, by multiple accounts, was fiery and oftentimes unpredictable. The historian Al-Maqrizi said, regarding the rift between the Sunni Ash'ari's and Ibn Taymiyyah, \"People are divided into two factions over the question of Ibn Taymiyyah; for until the present, the latter has retained admirers and disciples in Syria and Egypt.\" Both his supporters and rivals grew to respect Ibn Taymiyyah because he was uncompromising in his views. Dhahabi's views towards Ibn Taymiyya were ambivalent. His praise of Ibn Taymiyya is invariably qualified with criticism and misgivings and he considered him to be both a \"brilliant Shaykh\" and also \"cocky\" and \"impetuous\". The Ash'ari scholar 'Ala' Al-Din Al-Bukhari said that anyone that gives Ibn Taymiyya the title Shaykh al-Islām is a disbeliever.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's works served as an inspiration for later Muslim scholars and historical figures, who have been regarded as his admirers or disciples. In the contemporary world, he may be considered at the root of Wahhabism, the Senussi order and other later reformist movements. Ibn Taymiyyah has been noted to have influenced Rashid Rida, Abul A`la Maududi, Sayyid Qutb, Hassan al-Banna, Abdullah Azzam, and Osama bin Laden. The terrorist organization Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant used a fatwa of Ibn Taymiyyah to justify the burning alive of Jordanian pilot Muath al-Kasasbeh.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's fatwa on Alawites as \"more infidel than Christians and Jews\" has been recited by Muslim Brotherhood affiliated scholar Yusuf al-Qaradawi and the Syrian rebel Islamist leader of Jaysh al-Islam Zahran Alloush.\n\nThe generally positive perception of Ibn Taymiyyah among Salafi Muslims prompted the head of the Israel Defense Forces IDF Spokesperson's Unit's head of the Arab Media Division, Avichay Adraee, to release a video in which he called upon the Sunni Hamas movement to dissociate from Iran, citing Ibn Taymiyyah's views on Shiites as deceptive.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah was taught by scholars who were renowned in their time. However, there is no evidence that any of the contemporary scholars influenced him.\n\nA strong influence on Ibn Taymiyyah was the founder of the Hanbali school of Islamic jurisprudence, Ahmad ibn Hanbal. Ibn Taymiyyah was trained in this school and he had studied Ibn Hanbal's Musnad in great detail, having studied it over multiple times. Though he spent much of his life following this school, in the end he renounced taqlid (blind following).\n\nHis work was most influenced by the sayings and actions of the Salaf (first 3 generation of Muslims) and this showed in his work where he would give preference to the Salaf over his contemporaries. The modern Salafi movement derives its name from this school of thought.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah said that God should be described as he has described himself in the Qur'an and the way Prophet Muhammad has described God in the Hadith. He rejected; the Ta'tili's who denied these attributes, those who compare God with the creation (Tashbih) and those who engage in esoteric interpretations (ta'wil) of the Qur'an or use symbolic exegesis. Ibn Taymiyyah said that those attributes which we know about from the two above mentioned sources, should be ascribed to God. Anything regarding God's attributes which people have no knowledge of, should be approached in a manner, according to Ibn Taymiyyah, where the mystery of the unknown is left to God (called tafwid) and the Muslims submit themselves to the word of God and the Prophet (called taslim). Henri Laoust says that through this framework, this doctrine, \"provides authority for the widest possible scope in personal internationalization of religion.\"\n\nIn 1299,]\n\nIbn Taymiyyah wrote the book Al-Aqida al-hamawiyya al-kubra, which dealt with, among other topics, theology and creed. When he was accused of anthropomorphism, a private meeting was held between scholars in the house of Al-Din `Umar al-Kazwini who was a Shafii judge. After careful study of this book, he was cleared of those charges. Ibn Taymiyyah also wrote another book dealing with the attributes of God called, \"Al-Aqidah Al-Waasitiyyah\". He faced considerable hostility towards these views from the Ash'ari's of whom the most notable were, Taqi al-Din al-Subki and his son Taj al-Din al-Subki who were influential Islamic jurists and also chief judge of Damascus in their respective times.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's highly intellectual discourse at explaining \"The Wise Purpose of God, Human Agency, and the Problems of Evil & Justice\" using God's attributes as a means has been illustrated by Dr. Jon Hoover in his work \"Ibn Taymiyyah's Theodicy of Perpetual Optimism\".\n\nIbn Taymiyyah held the belief that Hell was not eternal even for unbelievers. According to Ibn Taymiyyah, Hell is therapeutic and reformative, and God's wise purpose in chastising unbelievers is to make them fit to leave the Fire. This view contradicted the mainstream Sunni doctrine of eternal hell-fire for unbelievers. Ibn Taymiyyah was criticised for holding this view by the chief Shafi scholar Taqi al-Din al-Subki who presented a large body of Qur'anic evidence to argue that unbelievers will abide in hell-fire eternally.\nIbn Taymiyyah was partially supported in his view by the Zaydi Shi'ite Ibn al-Wazir.\n\nOf the four fundamental sources of the sharia accepted by thirteenth century Sunni jurists—\n\n—Ibn Taymiyyah opposed the use of consensus of jurists, replacing it with the consensus of the \"companions\" (\"sahaba\").\n\nLike all Islamic jurists Ibn Taymiyyah believed in a hierarchy sources for the Sharia. Most important was the Quran, and the sunnah or any other source could not abrogate a verse of the Qur'an. (For him, an abrogation of a verse, known in Arabic as \"Naskh\", was only possible through another verse in the Qur'an.) Next was sunnah which other sources (besides the Quran) must not contradict.\n\nConcerning Consensus (\"ijma\"), he believed that consensus of any Muslims other than that of the companions of Muhammad could not be \"realistically verifiable\" and so was speculative, and thus not a legitimate source of Islamic law (except in certain circumstances). The consensus (ijma) used must be that of the companions found in their reported sayings or actions. According one supporter, Serajul Haque, his rejection of the consensus of other scholars was justified, on the basis of the instructions given to the jurist Shuraih ibn al-Hârith from the Caliph Umar, one of the companions of Muhammad; to make decisions by first referring to the Qur'an, and if that is not possible, then to the sayings of the Prophet and finally to refer to the agreement of the companions like himself.\n\nAn example of Ibn Taymiyyah use of his interpretation was in defense of the (temporary) closing of all Christian churches in 1299 in the Mamluk Sultanate of Egypt. The closing was in violation of a 600-year-old covenant with Christian \"dhimmi\" known as the Pact of Umar. But as Ibn Taymiyyah pointed out, while venerable, the pact was written 60 years or so after the time of the companions and so had no legal effect.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah considered the use of analogy (qiyas) based on literal meaning of scripture as a valid source for deriving legal rulings. Analogy is the primary instrument of legal rationalism in Islam. He acknowledged its use as one of the four fundamental principles of Islamic jurisprudence. Ibn Taymiyyah argued against the certainty of syllogistic arguments and in favour of analogy (\"qiyas\"). He argues that concepts founded on induction are themselves not certain but only probable, and thus a syllogism based on such concepts is no more certain than an argument based on analogy. He further claimed that induction itself depends on a process of analogy. His model of analogical reasoning was based on that of juridical arguments. Work by John F. Sowa have, for example, have used Ibn Taymiyyah's model of analogy. He attached caveats however to the use of analogy because he considered the use of reason to be secondary to the use of revelation. Ibn Taymiyyah's view was that analogy should be used under the framework of revelation, as a supporting source.\n\nThere were some jurists who thought rulings derived through analogy could contradict a ruling derived from the Qur'an and the authentic hadith. However, Ibn Taymiyyah disagreed because he thought a contradiction between the definitive canonical texts of Islam, and definitive reason was impossible and that this was also the understanding of the salaf. Racha el-Omari says that on an epistemological level, Ibn Taymiyyah considered the Salaf to be better than any other later scholars in understanding the agreement between revelation and reason. One example for this is the use of analogy in the Islamic legal principle of maslaha (public good) about which Ibn Taymiyya believed, if there were to be any contradiction to revelation then it is due to a misunderstanding or misapplication of the concept of utility. He said that to assess the utility of something, the criteria for benefit and harm should come from the Qur'an and sunnah, a criteria which he also applied to the establishment of a correct analogy.\n\nAn example of Ibn Taymiyyah's use of analogy was in a fatwa forbidding the use of hashish one the grounds that it was analogous to wine, and users should be given 80 lashes in punishment. \"Anyone who disagreed was an apostate, he added, whose corpse ought not to be washed or given a decent burial.\"\n\nIssues surrounding the use of reason ('Aql) and rational came about in relation to the attributes of God for which he faced much resistance. At the time the Islamic scholars thought the attributes of God as stated in the Qur'an were contradictory to reason so sought other explanations instead. Ibn Taymiyyah believed that reason itself validated the entire Qur'an as being reliable and in light of that he argued, if some part of the scripture was to be rejected then this would render the use of reason as an unacceptable avenue through which to seek knowledge. He thought that the most perfect rational method and use of reason was contained within the Qur'an and sunnah and that the theologians of his time had used rational and reason in a flawed manner.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah had mastered the grammar of Arabic and one of the books which he studied was the book of Arabic grammar called Al-Kitab, by Sibawayh. In later life he met the Qur'an commentator Abu Hayyan al-Gharnati to whom he expressed that, \"Sibawayh was not the Prophet of Syntax nor was he infallible. He committed eighty mistakes in his book which are not intelligible to you.\" Ibn Taymiyyah is thought to have severely criticized Sibawayh but the actual substance of those criticisms is not known because the book that Ibn Taymiyyah wrote, \"al-Bahr\", within which he wrote the criticisms has been lost. He stated that when there is an explanation of an Ayah of the Qur'an or a Hadith, from the Prophet himself, the use of philology or a grammatical explanation becomes obsolete. He also said one should refer only to the understanding of the Salaf (first three generations of Muslims) when interpreting a word within the scriptural sources. However he did not discount the contributions of the grammarians completely. Ibn Taymiyyah stated that the Arabic nouns within the scriptural sources have been divided by the fuqaha (Islamic jurists) into three categories; those that are defined by the shari'a, those defined by philology (lugha) and finally those that are defined by social custom (`urf). For him each of these categories of nouns had to be used in their own appropriate manner.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah censured the scholars for blindly conforming to the precedence of early jurists without any resort to the Qur'an and Sunnah. He contended that although juridical precedence has its place, blindly giving it authority without contextualization, sensitivity to societal changes, and evaluative mindset in light of the Qur'an and Sunnah can lead to ignorance and stagnancy in Islamic Law. Ibn Taymiyyah likened the extremism of \"Taqlid\" (blind conformity to juridical precedence or school of thought) to the practice of Jews and Christians who took their rabbis and ecclesiastics as gods besides God. In arguing against taqlid, he said the salaf, who in order to better understand and live according to the commands of God, had to make ijtihad using the scriptural sources. The same approach, in his view, was needed in modern times.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah believed that the best role models for Islamic life were the first three generations of Islam (Salaf); which constitute Muhammad's companions, referred to in Arabic as Sahaba (first generation), followed by the generation of Muslims born after the death of Muhammad known as the Tabi'un (second generation) which is then followed lastly by the next generation after the Tabi'un known as Tabi' Al-Tabi'in (third generation). Ibn Taymiyyah gave precedence to the ideas of the Sahaba and early generations, over the founders of the Islamic schools of jurisprudence. For Ibn Taymiyyah it was the Qur'an, the sayings and practices of Muhammad and the ideas of the early generations of Muslims that constituted the best understanding of Islam. Any deviation from their practice was viewed as bid'ah, or innovation, and to be forbidden. He also praised and wrote a commentary on some speeches of Abdul-Qadir Gilani.\n\nIbn Taymiyya believed that Islamic policy and management was based on , and that the goal of \"al-siyasa\" (politics, the political) should be to protect \"al-din\" (religion) and to manage \"al-dunya\" (worldly life and affairs). Religion and the State should be inextricably linked, in his view, as the state was indispensable in providing justice to the people, enforcing Islamic law by enjoining good and forbidding evil, unifying the people and preparing a society conducive to the worship of God. He believed that \"enjoining good and forbidding wrong\" was the duty of every state functionary with charge over other Muslims, from the caliph to \"the schoolmaster in charge of assessing children's handwriting exercises.\"\n\nIbn Taymiyyah supported giving broad powers to the state. In \"Al-siyasa al-Shar`iyah\", he focused on duties of individuals and punishments rather than rules and procedural limits of authorities. Suspected highway robbers who would not reveal their accomplices or the location of their loot, for example should be held in detention and lashed for indefinite periods. He also allowed the lashing of imprisoned debtors, and \"trials of suspicion\" (\"da`sawi al-tuham\") where defendants could be convicted without witnesses or documentary proof.\n\nHenri Laoust said that Ibn Taymiyyah never propagated the idea of a single caliphate but believed the Muslim ummah or community would form into a confederation of states. Laoust further stated that Ibn Taymiyyah called for obedience only to God, and the Islamic Prophet Muhammad, and he did not put a limit on the number of leaders a Muslim community could have. However Mona Hassan, in her recent study of the political thoughts of Ibn Taymiyyah, questions this and says laoust has wrongly claimed that Ibn Taymiyyah thought of the caliphate as a redundant idea. Hassan has shown that Ibn Taymiyyah considered the Caliphate that was under the Rashidun Caliphs; Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman, and Ali, as the moral and legal ideal. The Caliphate in his view could not be ceded \"in favour of secular kingship (mulk).\n\nIbn Taymiyyah was noted for emphasis he put on the importance of jihad and for the \"careful and lengthy attention\" he gave \"to the questions of martyrdom\" in jihad, such as benefits and blessings to be had for martyrs in the afterlife. He asserted that martyrdom and eternal rewards and blessings, . He wrote that, \"It is in jihad that one can live and die in ultimate happiness, both in this world and in the Hereafter. Abandoning it means losing entirely or partially both kinds of happiness.\"\n\nHe defined jihad as:\n\nIt comprehends all sorts of worship, whether inward or outward, including love for Allah, being sincere to Him, relying on Him, relinquishing one's soul and property for His sake, being patient and austere, and keeping remembrance of Almighty Allah. It includes what is done by physical power, what is done by the heart, what is done by the tongue through calling to the way of Allah by means of authoritative proofs and providing opinions, and what is done through management, industry, and wealth.\n\nHe gave a broad definition of what constituted \"aggression\" against Muslims and what actions by non-believers made jihad against them permissible. He declared\n\nIt is allowed to fight people for (not observing) unambiguous and generally recognized obligations and prohibitions, until they undertake to perform the explicitly prescribed prayers, to pay zakat, to fast during the month of Ramadan, to make the pilgrimage to Mecca and to avoid what is prohibited, such as marrying women in spite of legal impediments, eating impure things, acting unlawfully against the lives and properties of Muslims and the like. It is obligatory to take the initiative in fighting those people, as soon as the Prophet's summons with the reasons for which they are fought has reached them. But if they first attack the Muslims then fighting them is even more urgent, as we have mentioned when dealing with the fighting against rebellious and aggressive bandits.\n\nIn the modern context, his rulings have been used by some Islamist groups to declare jihad against various governments.\n\nEven though Ibn Taymiyyah has been called a theologian, he claimed to reject \"`ilm al-kalam\", known as Islamic theology, as well as some aspects of Sufism and Peripatetic philosophy, as an innovation (\"Bid'ah\"). Despite this, Ibn Taymiyyah's works contained numerous arguments that openly refer to rational arguments (kalam) for their validity and therefore he must be included amongst the Mutakallimin.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah opposed giving any undue religious honors to mosques (even that of Jerusalem, the Al-Aqsa Mosque), to approach or rival in any way the Islamic sanctity of the two most holy mosques within Islam, Masjid al-Haram (in Mecca) and Al-Masjid al-Nabawi (in Madina). As to the practice of making journey for the sole purpose of visiting a mosque, Ibn Taymiyyah has said in his books; Majmu'at al-Rasail al-Kubra, Minhaj al-Sunna and Majmu'at Fatawa, that, \"Journey must not be made except to three mosques; Masjid al-Haram, Masjid al-Nabawi and Masjid Al-Aqsa\". Regarding this Serajul Haque says that, \"In the opinion of Ibn Taymiyyah only these three mosques have been accepted by the Prophet as the object of journeys, on account of their excellence over all other mosques and places of prayer. Ibn Taymiyyah uses a saying (hadith) of the Islamic prophet Muhammad in Bukhari and Muslim to justify his view that it is not permitted to journey exclusively to any mosque than Mecca, Medina, or Jerusalem.\n\nAlthough it is sometimes supposed that Ibn Taymiyyah rejected the very idea of saints, which had become a cardinal Sunni belief in the medieval period, scholarship has shown that this is not true. Indeed, while Ibn Taymiyyah did indeed reject widely-established orthodox \"practices\" associated with the veneration of saints in Islam at his time, like the visitation to their graves and the seeking of their intercession, he never rejected the actual existence of saints as such. On the contrary, he explicitly states: \"The miracles of saints are absolutely true and correct, by the acceptance of all Muslim scholars. And the Qur'an has pointed to it in different places, and the sayings of the Prophet have mentioned it, and whoever denies the miraculous power of saints are only people who are innovators and their followers.\" In this particular respect, he differed little from all his contemporaries; for just as practically all of the era's scholars believed that \"the lives of saints and their miracles were incontestable,\" so also did Ibn Taymiyyah.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's most categorical declaration of accepting the existence of saints and their miracles appears in his famous creed \"'Aqīda al-Wāsitīya\", in which he states: \"Among the fundamentals of the belief of the People of the Sunna is belief in the miracles of the saints (\"karāmāt al-awliyā\") and the supernatural acts which God achieves through them in all varieties of knowledge, illuminations (\"mukāshafāt\"), power, and impressions as it is handed down about the ancient nations in the chapter of the Cave and in other Quranic chapters and is known of the early men among this Community of Believers among the Companions and Followers and the rest of the generations of this Community of Believers. It [the blessing of having saints and saintly miracles] will be with them until the Day of Resurrection.\"\n\nAlthough Ibn Taymiyyah was critical of some of the developments within Sufism, he never rejected the practice outright, and actually enumerated a list of early Sufis whom he considered to be among the greatest Islamic saints. In this list, he included Bayazid Bastami, Junayd of Baghdad, Abdul-Qadir Gilani, Hasan of Basra, Ibrahim ibn Adham, Maruf Karkhi, Sirri Saqti, and several other venerable personages who have always been venerated in mainstream Sunni Islam as being among the greatest saints of all. Regarding all these early saints, Ibn Taymiyyah even declares: \"These great Sufi people were the leaders of humanity, and they were calling to what is right and forbidding what is wrong.\" While Ibn Taymiyyah did indeed reject the veneration of saints who promulgated the Akbari doctrine of wahdat al-wajud, he never rejected the venerability of saints who belonged to all the other Sufi orders.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah considered the visitation of the tombs of Prophets and saints as impermissible, a blameworthy innovation and comparable to worshiping something besides God (Shirk). This view was vigorously rejected by mainstream Sunni scholars both during his life and after his death. The Shafi'i hadith master Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani stated that \"This is one of the ugliest positions that has been reported of Ibn Taymiyya\" and also added that travelling to visit the tomb of the Prophet was \"one of the best of actions and the noblest of pious deeds with which one draws near to God, and its legitimacy is a matter of consensus.\" The Hanafi hadith scholar Ali al-Qari stated that, \"Amongst the Hanbalis, Ibn Taymiyya has gone to an extreme by prohibiting travelling to visit the Prophet – may God bless him and grant him peace\" Qastallani stated that \"The Shaykh Taqi al-Din Ibn Taymiyya has abominable and odd statements on this issue to the effect that travelling to visit the Prophet is prohibited and is not a pious deed.\" Other scholars in opposition to Ibn Taymiyyah's views include Ghazali, Nawawi, Munawi and Qadi Ayyad who stated that visiting the Prophet was \"a sunna of the Muslims on which there was consensus, and a good and desirable deed.\"\n\nIbn Taymiyyah said that seeking the assistance of God through intercession is allowed, as long as the other person is still alive. However, he believed that those who ask assistance from the grave of the Prophet or saints, are mushrikin (polytheists), someone who is engaged in shirk. \nThis view was also vigorously rejected by mainstream Sunni scholars. For example, the chief judge of Damascus, Taqi al-Din al-Subki stated that, \"It is proper to entreat and ask for the help and intercession of the Prophet ﷺ with God. No one from amongst the salaf and khalaf denied this, until Ibn Taymiyya came along and disapproved of this, and deviated from the straight path, and invented a position that no scholar has said before, and he became a deterrent example for Muslims\". Similarly, Ibn Hajar rejected Ibn Taymiyya's view on intercession and held that he had broken with the established consensus of Sunni scholars, as did many other scholars such as Zurqani and Khalil ibn Ishaq.\n\nThe mutakallimun are scholars who engage in ilm al-Kalam (rationalist theology) and they were criticised by Ibn Taymiyyah for their use of rationalist theology and philosophy. He said that the method of kalam was used by the Mu`tazilites, Jahmites and Ash`ari's. Ibn Taymiyyah considered the use of philosophical proofs and kalam to be redundant because he saw the Qur'an and the Sunna as superior rational proofs. Ibn Taymiyyah said that these explanations were not grounded in scriptural evidence such as the philosophical explanation of the divine attributes of God or the proof of God using the cosmological argument. He said that the call to Islam was not made using such methods by the Qur'an or the Prophet and that these theories have only caused errors and corruption. The mutakallimun called their use of rationalist theology usul al-din (principles of religion) but Ibn Taymiyyah said that the use of rationalist theology has nothing to do with the true usul al-din which comes from God and to state otherwise is to say that the Prophet neglected an important aspect of Islam. Ibn Taymiyyah says that the usul al-din of the mutakallimun, deserve to be named usul din al-shaytan (principles of Satanic religion).\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's attempts to focus attention onto Qur'anic rationality was taken up by his student Ibn Qayyim, to the exception of his other followers. This focus on traditionlist rationlism was also taken up by Musa Bigiev.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah belonged to the Qadiriyya tariqa (order) of Sufism and claimed to inherit the khirqa (spiritual mantle) of the founder of the Qadiriyya order 'Abd al-Qadir al-Jilani.\nAmong his explicit positive references to Sufism and the Qadiriyya tariqa in particular, Ibn Taymiyyah referred to Jilani as \"Shaykhuna\" (our Shaykh) and \"Sayyidi\" (my master). He spoke highly of a great many other Sufi Shaykhs also such as Abu Yazid al-Bistami and al-Junayd. and went to great lengths to state that Sufism is not a heretical innovation (bid'ah).\n\nDespite this, Ibn Taymiyyah rejected two views associated with some Sufis. Firstly, he rejected monism which he believed was similar to the pantheistic belief that God \"encompasses all things\". This rejection included denouncing the views of Ibn Arabi. Secondly he said that the view that spiritual enlightenment is of a greater importance than obeying the sharia was a failure to properly follow the example of Muhammad. On Ibn Arabi, and Sufism in general, Henri Laoust says that Ibn Taymiyyah never condemned Sufism in itself, but only that which he considered to be, inadmissible deviations in doctrine, ritual or morals, such as monism, antinomianism or esotericism.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah was extremely critical of Shia and considered them religiously bankrupt, among the most morally depraved people and the root cause of many Islamic ills. His severe critique of Twelver Shia in his book, \"Minhaj as-Sunnah an-Nabawiyyah, \"was written in response to the book \"Minhaj al-karama fi ma'rifat al-imama\", by the Shia theologian Al-Hilli. He focused his criticisms to the similarity between Shia, Christians and Jews.\n\nRegarding the Shia mourning for Husayn on Ashura, Ibn Taymiyyah considered Husayn's martyrdom as a divinely bestowed honour—not a major tragedy. He also argued that such mourning was never instructed by Muhammad and that the Islamic response to recent (let alone ancient) loss is not extravagant mourning but to endure the loss with patience and trust in God. However, he also believed those who celebrated on Ashura were anti-Shia zealots (\"an-Nāṣibiyyah\") or ignorant people.\n\nHe wrote polemics against Christians.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah strongly opposed borrowing from Christianity or other non-Muslim religions. In his text \"On the Necessity of the Straight Path\" (\"kitab iqtida al-sirat al-mustaqim\") he preached that the beginning of Muslim life was the point at which \"a perfect dissimilarity with the non-Muslims has been achieved.\" To this end he opposed the celebration of the observance of the birthday of the Islamic prophet Muhammad or the construction of mosques around the tombs of Muslim saints saying: \"Many of them (the Muslims) do not even know of the Christian origins of these practices.\"\n\nHe elaborated a circumstantial analysis of market mechanism, with a theoretical insight unusual in his time. Regarding the power of supply and demand, Ibn Taymiyyah said, \"If desire for goods increases while its availability decreases, its price rises. On the other hand, if availability of the good increases and the desire for it decreases, the price comes down.\" His discourses on the welfare advantages and disadvantages of market regulation and deregulation, have an almost contemporary ring to them.\n\nHowever, he also advocated a policy of \"fair prices\" and \"fair profits\", with the implication that anything higher would be impious. Such forms of price fixing was detrimental to entrepreneurship.\n\nHe argued that there was an alternate view to the view held by philosophers, like Ibn Sina, who claimed the universe was eternal in its entirety, and Islamic scholars, like Fakhr al-Din al-Razi, who claimed that the universe was created from nothing by God. In his Sharh Hadith Imran ibn Hasan, Ibn Taymiyya distinguishes between species and elements, asserting that the former are eternal with God. He states: \"If it is supposed that the species [of things done] has been with Him from eternity, neither revelation nor reason denies this 'withness' (ma^iyya). On the contrary, it is part of His perfection.\" In fact, Ibn Taymiyya draws this assertion from his belief that God perpetually creates, i.e. in preeternity. John Hoover, in his Perpetual Creativity In The Perfection Of God: Ibn Taymiyya's Hadith Commentary On God's Creation Of This World, elaborates, \"Following in the footsteps of Ibn Sina and Ibn Rushd, Ibn Taymiyya then roots God's perpetual creativity in a Neoplatonic concept of God's perfection. Power and creativity are necessary concomitants of God's perfection. If God's creativity were not perpetual, God would have been devoid of His creativity, as well as other attributes of perfection, in pre-eternity.\"\n\nIbn Taymiyyah is thought by some to be the main influence behind the emergence of Salafism. He placed an emphasis on understanding Islam as it was understood by the salaf (first three generations of Muslims).\n\nVarious concepts within modern Islamism can be attributed to Ibn Taymiyyah. His influence is noted by Yahya Michot who says Ibn Taymiyyah \"has thus become a sort of forefather of al-Qaeda.\" One reason for this was his categorising the world into distinct territories: the domain of Islam (dar al-Islam), where the rule is of Islam and sharia law is enforced; the domain of unbelief (dar-al-kufr) ruled by unbelievers; and the domain of war (dar al-harb) which is territory under the rule of unbelievers who are involved in an active or potential conflict with the domain of Islam. (Ibn Taymiyyah included a fourth. When the Mongols, whom he considered unbelievers, took control of the city of Mardin the population included many Muslims. Believing Mardin was neither the domain of Islam, as Islam was not legally applied with an armed forces consisting of Muslims, nor the domain of war because the inhabitants were Muslim, Ibn Taymiyyah created a new \"composite\" category, known as \"dar al-`ahd\".)\n\nA second concept is making a declaration of apostasy (takfir) against a Muslim who does not obey Islam. But at the same time Ibn Taymiyyah maintained that no one can question anothers faith and curse them as based on one's own desire, because faith is defined by God and the Prophet. He said, rather than cursing or condemning them, an approach should be taken where they are educated about the religion. A further concept attributed to Ibn Taymiyyah is, \"the duty to oppose and kill Muslim rulers who do not implement the revealed law (shari'a).\n\nIbn Taymiyyah's role in the Islamist movements of the twentieth and twenty first century have also been noted by, the previous Coordinator for Counterterrorism at the United States Department of State, Daniel Benjamin who labels the chapter on the history of modern Islamic movements in his book \"The Age of Sacred Terror\", as \"Ibn Taymiyya and His children\". Yossef Rapoport, a reader in Islamic history at Queen Mary, however, says this is not a probable narrative.\n\nOne of Ibn Taymiyyah's most famous fatwas is regarding the Mongols who had conquered and destroyed the Abbasid caliphate in 1258 and had then converted to Islam. Once they were in control of Mardin, they behaved unjustly with their subjects so the people of Mardin asked Ibn Taymiyyah for a legal verdict regarding the classification of the territory under which they live. He categorized the territory as \"dar al-`ahd\" which in some ways is similar to dar al-kufr (domain of unbelievers). Included in his verdict was declaring the Mongol ruler Ghazan and other Mongols who did not accept shari'a in full, as unbelievers. According to Nettler and Kéchichian, Ibn Taymiyyah affirmed that Jihad against the Mongols, \"was not only permissible but obligatory because the latter ruled not according to Sharīʿah but through their traditional, and therefore manmade, Yassa code. This essentially meant that Mongols were living in a state of \"jāhilīyah \"(ignorance).\" The authors further state that his two famous student, Ibn Qayyim and Ibn Kathir, agreed with this ruling. He called for a defensive jihad to mobilise the people to kill the Mongol rulers and any one who supported them, Muslim or non-Muslim. Ibn Taymiyyah when talking about those who support the Mongols said, \"Everyone who is with them (Mongols) in the state over which they rule has to be regarded as belonging to the most evil class of men. He is either an atheist (zindīq) or a hypocrite who does not believe in the essence of the religion of Islam. This means that he (only) outwardly pretends to be Muslim or he belongs to the worst class of all people who are the people of the bida` (heretical innovations).\" Yahya Mochet says that, Ibn Taymiyyah's call to war was not simply to cause a \"rebellion against the political power in place\" but to repel an \"external enemy\".\n\nIn 2010, a group of Islamic Scholars at the Mardin conference argued that Ibn Taymiyyah's famous fatwa about the residents of Mardin when it was under the control of the Mongols was misprinted into an order to \"fight\" the people living under their territory, whereas the actual statement is, \"The Muslims living therein should be treated according to their rights as Muslims, while the non-Muslims living there outside of the authority of Islamic Law should be treated according to their rights.\" They have based their understanding on the original manuscript in the Al-Zahiriyah Library, and the transmission by Ibn Taymiyyah's student Ibn Muflih. The participants of the Mardin conference also rejected the categorization of the world into different domains of war and peace, stating that the division was a result of the circumstances at the time. The participants further stated that the division has become irrelevant with the existence of nation states.\n\nHowever, some recent scholarship has argued that attempts by Salafis and Jihadis to portray the figure of Ibn Taymiyyah as being a direct classical precursor of their own beliefs are flawed inasmuch as they are often borne, according to these same scholars, of a limited reading of the theologian's substantial corpus of works, many of which have not yet been translated from the original Arabic. James Pavlin, for example, has argued: \"Ibn Taymiyya remains one of the most controversial Islamic thinkers today because of his supposed influence on many fundamentalist movements. The common understanding of his ideas have been filtered through the bits and pieces of his statements that have been misappropriated by ... [his] alleged supporters.\" Additionally, Abdul Haq Ansari has argued that the ubiquitous notion that Ibn Taymiyyah rejected Sufism outright is erroneous, for while \"the popular image of Ibn Taymiyyah [is] ... that he [criticized] Sufism indiscriminately ... [was] deadly against the Sufis, and ... [saw] no place for Sufism in Islam,\" it is historically known, according to the same scholar, that Ibn Taymiyyah actually considered Sufism an essential part of Islam, being on the whole \"sympathetic\" towards what everyone at the time considered an integral part of Islamic life. Indeed, \"far from saying [Sufism] has no place in Islam,\" Ibn Taymiyyah, according to the same author, seems to have wanted to reform the practice of medieval Sufism as part of his wider aim to reform Sunni Islam (of which Sufism was a fundamental component at the time) by divesting both these traditions of what he perceived to be heretical innovations within them. Moreover, these scholars also point out that Ibn Taymiyyah had a deep reverence and appreciation for the works of such major Sufi saints as Junayd, Sahl al-Tustari, Abu Talib al-Makki, and even Bayazid Bastami, and was part of the Qadiriyya Sufi order himself.\n\nIbn Taymiyyah left a considerable body of work, ranging from 350 according to his student Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya to 500 according to his student al-Dhahabi. Oliver Leaman says that Ibn Taymiyyah produced some 700 works in the field of Islamic sciences. His scholarly output has been described as immense with a wide scope and its contents \"bear the marks of brilliant insights hastility jotted down\". It is the case however, that his works are not yet fully understood but efforts are being made, at least in the western languages to gain an adequate understanding of his writings. In his early life, his work was mostly based on theology and the use of reason in interpretation of scriptural evidences, with later works focusing on; refutation of Greek logic, questioning the prevalent practices of the time, and anti-Christian and anti-Shi'i polemics. Ibn Taymiyyah's total works have not all survived and his extant works of thirty five volumes, are incomplete. Extant books and essays written by ibn Taymiyyah include:\n\nSome of his other works have been translated to English. They include:\n\nMany of Ibn Taymiyyah's books are thought to be lost. Their existence is known through various reports written by scholars throughout history as well as some treatises written by Ibn Taymiyyah. Some of his notable lost works include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4166857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166857", "title": "Jim (horse)", "text": "Jim (horse)\n\n\"Jim\" was the name of a former milk wagon horse, who was used to produce serum containing diphtheria antitoxin (antibodies against diphtheria toxin). Jim produced over 30 quarts (7.5 US gallons) of diphtheria antitoxin in his career. However, on October 2, 1901, Jim showed signs that he had contracted tetanus and was euthanized. After the death of a girl in St. Louis was traced back to Jim's contaminated serum, it was discovered that serum dated September 30 contained tetanus in its incubation phase. This contamination could have easily been discovered if the serum had been tested prior to its use. Furthermore, samples from September 30 had also been used to fill bottles labeled \"August 24,\" while actual samples from the 24th were shown to be free of contamination. \n\nThese failures in oversight led to the distribution of antitoxin that caused the death of 12 more children. This incident, and a similar one involving contaminated smallpox vaccine, led to the passage of the Biologics Control Act of 1902, which established the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. Jim's misfortune, and the ensuing tragedy and reaction, thus established a precedent for the regulation of biologics, leading to the 1906 formation of the US Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. \n\n"}
{"id": "57576014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57576014", "title": "Joe Louis (horse)", "text": "Joe Louis (horse)\n\nJoe Louis was a horse owned by the United States Army. He was purchased by the Army in 1938 and named in honor of boxer Joe Louis. Joe Louis died at Fort Riley, Kansas in 1957 and was the last of three living operational cavalry mounts of the U.S. Army, the others being Chief and Gambler.\n\n"}
{"id": "7326711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7326711", "title": "List of Israeli assassinations", "text": "List of Israeli assassinations\n\nThe following is a list of alleged and confirmed assassinations reported to have been conducted by the State of Israel. It includes attempts on notable persons who were reported to have been specifically targeted by the various Israeli security, intelligence and law enforcement agencies.\n\nAccording to Eyal Weizman, \"targeted assassinations have become the most significant and frequent form of Israeli military attack\", and serve not only to contain terror but as a \"political tool\" to control Palestinian territories Israel has otherwise withdrawn from. In response to protests over the number of civilians killed in targeting operations, and the refusal of a number of pilots to engage in such missions in 2003, Israel set up groups to minimize collateral damage in 2003 to establish acceptable levels of damage to bystanders. In 2006 \"focused lethality munitions\", missiles with intense but highly localized explosive were introduced to this end, and in November a legal committee was set up to rule on assassinations. \n\nThere is no clear definition of \"targeted killing\" under international law. The Supreme Court of Israel, in response to a suit on the practice, mainly regarded actions in the Palestinian Territories, ruled on 14 December 2006 that such actions took place in an 'international armed conflict' but that the \"terrorists\", as civilians, lacked combatant status under international law. Yet they were, in the court's view, civilians participating directly in hostilities, which would mean they lose their immunity. It also ruled, following a precedent set forth by the European Court of Human Rights in its \"McCann and Others v United Kingdom\" judgement, that a 'law of proportionality', balancing military necessity with humanity, must apply. Assassination were permitted if \"strong and persuasive information\" concerning the target's identity existed; if the mission served to curtail terror; and if other techniques, such as attempting to arrest the target, would gravely endanger soldiers' lives.\n\nNils Melzer in his 2006 study Targeted Killing in International Law defines targeted killings in terms of five criteria, summed up as \"the use of lethal force attributable to a subject of international law with the intent, premeditation and deliberation to kill individually selected persons who are not in the physical custody of those targeting them.\" Before 2001 Israel denied it practiced or has a policy of conducting extrajudicial executions.\n\nThe term itself gained widespread currency only after Israel went public concerning its policy regarding alleged terrorists in the Palestinian territories. Early into the Second Intifada, it became the first state to publicly outline a policy of “liquidation” and “preemptive targeted killing,” when two female bystanders were killed during an operation to kill a Palestinian militant, Hussein ‘Abayat, on 9 November 2000. Killings in the past were often premised on revenge for earlier crimes, and required a quasi-judicial commission to convict the target of culpability before action was taken. The policy, re-introduced by Ariel Sharon in the face of suicide bombings, no longer took evidence of potential involvement by the target in future attacks on Israel as decisive, and the decision was left to the discretion of the Prime Minister and Shin Bet.\n\nAccording to the former Legal Advisor to the State Department Judge Abraham Sofaer:\n\n...killings in self-defense are no more \"assassinations\" in international affairs than they are murders when undertaken by our police forces against domestic killers. Targeted killings in self-defense have been authoritatively determined by the federal government to fall outside the assassination prohibition. \nA state engaged in such activities must however, Sofaer concluded, openly acknowledge its responsibility and accept accountability for mistakes made.\n\nThis characterization is criticized by many, including Amnesty International.\n\nB'tselem has calculated that between 2002 and May 2008, at least 387 Palestinians died as a result of Israeli targeted killings, of which 234 were the targets, and the rest collateral casualties. The majority of Israeli targeted killings have taken place in Area A of the West Bank lying within the jurisdiction of the Palestinian National Authority. Some of killings listed below have been denied by Israel. Most fall within a series of campaigns, including Operation Wrath of God (launched in response to the 1972 Munich massacre), Israeli actions in the wake of the al-Aqsa Intifada (2000–), and strikes during the 2008–09 Gaza War. Gaza, according to Eyal Weizman, has now become 'the world's largest laboratory for airborne assassinations.' According to reports, as part of the long-term cease-fire terms negotiated between Israel, Hamas and other Palestinian groups to end the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, Israel pledged it would desist from its targeted killings against Palestinian terrorists and faction leaders.\n\nThe policy of targeted killings is known in Hebrew as \"focused foiling\" (Hebrew: סיכול ממוקד \"sikul memukad\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25830023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25830023", "title": "List of volcanic eruptions by death toll", "text": "List of volcanic eruptions by death toll\n\nVolcanic eruptions can be highly explosive, volatile, or neither. Certain volcanoes have undergone catastrophic eruptions, killing large numbers of humans, and this incomplete list attempts to document those volcanic eruptions by death toll.\n\n"}
{"id": "43447264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43447264", "title": "MUTO", "text": "MUTO\n\n\"Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organism\" (or MUTO for short) refers to a species of giant monsters that appeared as the main antagonists in \"Godzilla\" (2014).\n\n\"MUTO\" is an acronym for \"Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organism\". Director Gareth Edwards stated that \"it's basically the UFO of monsters\". The film's first draft differentiated the male and female MUTO as Hokmuto and Femuto, respectively. Official merchandise connected with the film refer to the male MUTO as \"Winged MUTO\" and the female as \"Eight-Legged MUTO\". While the term \"MUTO\" is used to identify the two parasitic creatures in the film, it is mainly used to reference giant monsters who are yet to be named. Such was the case in the official prequel comic, \"Godzilla: Awakening\", where a hive-minded superorganism from the Permian era that feeds on radiation, is identified as a MUTO before being designated as Shinomura (\"Swarm of Death.\") In \"\", Bill Randa (played by John Goodman) states that the Monarch agency (first introduced in 2014's \"Godzilla\") specializes in the hunt for Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organisms. \"\" (2019) retcons the monsters' designation from \"MUTOs\" to \"Titans\".\n\nUpon acquiring the license for Godzilla, Legendary Pictures had planned to feature two new monsters in addition. David Callaham's first draft featured early versions of the MUTOs where they were established as ancient enemies of Godzilla but never established as to why. When Gareth Edwards came aboard the project, he created a back story to bridge the gap between Godzilla's connection with the MUTOs. Edwards brainstormed the idea that, \"When these Godzillas were on Earth, there was another creature that would kill them and lay its eggs inside their dead bodies. Therefore, if these creatures ever came back, part of their life cycle would be the ability to attract Godzillas to the surface to kill them for reproduction.\"\n\nIn an interview, Edwards commented that it took over a year to design the MUTO creatures, stressing that it took that long to create something that was aimed to be new and different for today's day and age. Edwards and the design team looked towards past monster characters from such films as \"Jurassic Park\", \"Alien\", \"Starship Troopers\" and \"King Kong\" for inspiration and reflected back on what made these monsters and their designs so iconic. From this, the design for the MUTO monsters kept evolving and \"mutating\", according to Edwards, into a design he felt was more cohesive.\n\nEdwards has credited artist Matt Allsopp for creating the majority of the MUTO's designs. Edwards stated, \"The DNA of the MUTO is 80 to 90 percent from Matt, he was the main guy\". Others contributed to the design of the MUTOs as well such as Weta, Rob Bliss, Steambot, and Legacy, who provided a 3-D model of the MUTOs.\n\nThe film depicts the MUTOs as a sexually dimorphic species. The female is much larger and walks on eight limbs - the male is much smaller, with one pair of his eight limbs modified into wings for powered flight. Though the MUTOs have an arthropod-like appearance, filmmaker Guillaume Rocheron likened them more to vertebrates. The angularity of the male MUTO's wing design was inspired by stealth aircraft. As a side-effect of the radiation they absorb as food, the MUTOs are capable of causing electromagnetic interference, and emitting EMP shockwaves from their claws.\n\nOliver Gettell of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called the MUTOs \"Godzilla's most important co-stars\", praising them as threatening antagonists that encourage the audience to root for Godzilla. Some viewers have been critical of the MUTOs' design, which was perceived to be similar to that of the monster from \"Cloverfield\". WatchMojo.com listed the MUTOs as #10 on their \"Top 10 Godzilla Villains\" list.\n\nThe term \"MUTO\" (Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organism) was referenced in the 2017 film, \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "213240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213240", "title": "Mercury-Atlas 7", "text": "Mercury-Atlas 7\n\nMercury-Atlas 7, launched May 24, 1962, was the fourth flight of Project Mercury, the first manned space program of the United States. The Mercury spacecraft, named Aurora 7, made three Earth orbits, piloted by astronaut Scott Carpenter. He was the sixth human and the fourth American in space.\n\nA targeting error during reentry took the spacecraft 250 miles (about 400 km) off-course, delaying recovery of Carpenter and the spacecraft. The mission used Mercury spacecraft No. 18 and Atlas launch vehicle No. 107-D.\n\nThe original prime crew for Mercury Atlas-7 was to have been Deke Slayton, with Schirra as his back-up. However Slayton was removed from all flight crew availability after the discovery of cardiac arrhythmia during a training run in the \"g\"-loading centrifuge. Slayton had chosen the name \"Delta 7\" for the spacecraft, as this would have been the fourth manned flight and Delta (Δ) is the fourth letter in the Greek alphabet. Instead of using Schirra who was backup, it was decided to give the mission to Carpenter, who was the backup crew for Mercury-Atlas 6, had trained with John Glenn, and was considered the best prepared astronaut. When Carpenter was given the mission, he renamed it \"Aurora 7\" for the open sky and the dawn, symbolizing the dawn of the new age. The number Seven was also chosen for the Mercury 7 astronauts. In addition, Carpenter's home address in his childhood was the corner of Aurora and Seventh Avenues in Boulder, Colorado.\n\n\nMercury spacecraft No. 18 was delivered to Cape Canaveral, Florida on November 15, 1961. While under checkout, the crew changed the periscope and also worked on the drogue parachute, to prevent it from firing prematurely as happened during the previous flight. In addition, a device known as a [446] \"low-level commutator\" was added, to measure the temperature around the capsule, recording temperature data from 28 positions on the spacecraft.\n\nThe Atlas vehicle 107D was rolled out of the Convair factory in San Diego, California on February 25, 1962. It was delivered to Cape Canaveral on March 6, 1962.\n\nAtlas 107D incorporated two small changes from 109D (Glenn's booster), specifically removal of an insulation blanket from the common propellant tank bulkhead that was deemed unnecessary and booster jettison changed to one second earlier (T+130 seconds instead of 131 seconds).\n\nThe temperature sensor installation and the correction of the drogue parachute circuit delayed the launch until May.\n\nA network of ground stations and ships, called the \"Mercury network\" was arranged around the globe to provide continuous coverage with the spacecraft. On Mercury-Atlas 7, the network consisted of 15 Mercury sites supplemented by several Atlantic Missile Range (AMR) stations, and the Goddard Space Flight Center. CAPCOMs were operating from different stations around the world, to communicate with Carpenter. Gus Grissom was the CAPCOM in Cape Canaveral. Alan Shepard was the CAPCOM at California.\n\nThe focus of Carpenter's five-hour mission was on science. The full flight plan included the first study of liquids in weightlessness, Earth photography, and an unsuccessful attempt to observe a flare fired from the ground.\n\nOne of the experiments would include releasing a multi-colored balloon that would remain tethered to the capsule, observing the behavior of liquid in a weightless state inside a closed glass bottle, using a special light meter to determine the visibility of a ground flare, making weather photographs with hand-held cameras, and studying the airglow layer - for which Carpenter would receive special training. The tethered balloon was a 30-inch mylar inflatable sphere, which was folded, packaged, and housed with its gas expansion bottle in the antenna canister. The whole balloon package weighed two pounds. Divided into five sections of different colors - uncolored aluminum, yellow, orange, white, and a phosphorescent coating that appeared white by day and blue by night - the balloon was to be cast off near perigee after the first orbital pass to float freely at the end of a 100-foot nylon line. The purposes of the balloon experiment were to study the effects of space on the reflection properties of colored surfaces through visual observation and photographic studies and to obtain aerodynamic drag measurements by use of a strain gauge\n\nCarpenter was awakened at 1:15 AM on the morning of the flight and ate a breakfast of orange juice, filet mignon, eggs, toast, and coffee. Prior to insertion in the capsule, he was administered a hydration regimen of water, juice, coffee, and sweet tea. He ascended into the gantry at 4:36, and entered the spacecraft at 4:43. Unlike Mercury-Atlas 6, there was no problem with the sealing bolts.\n\nLaunch occurred at 7:45 AM (Florida time) on 24 May 1962.\n\nLaunch vehicle performance was overall excellent with one small anomaly in that one of the sustainer engine's hydraulic switches moved to the abort position at T+265 seconds, because a faulty pressure transducer produced an erroneous reading indicating loss of hydraulic pressure. However, since another transducer indicated correct pressure levels until after Sustainer Engine Cut-Off (SECO), the launch proceeded normally (both switches had to be tripped for the ASIS system to generate an abort signal). The Atlas's flight path was so accurate that \"Aurora 7\" reached almost the exact orbital parameters planned for the mission. SECO occurred at T+309 seconds and capsule separation at T+312 seconds.\n\nCarpenter had solid food items for the first time (in the form of freeze-dried cubes in a plastic bag) instead of paste squeezed out of a tube, which produced problems with loose crumbs floating inside the cabin. The food cubes had been coated with an anti-crumbling agent, however they may have accidentally been crushed prior to launch, breaking the coating. Carpenter expressed concern about crumbs being sucked into ventilation intakes in the capsule, in addition, a candy bar included in the food supply melted from high cabin temperatures (up to 102 °F). By the end of the second orbit, he informed Mercury Control that most of the food was a mess and he would avoid touching it for the rest of the flight aside from taking a xylose capsule.\n\nWith each orbit sunrise, Carpenter also saw the \"fireflies\". He saw the particles more like snowflakes than fireflies. He also noted that the particles did not seem to be truly luminous, and varied in size, brightness, and color. Some were gray, some were white, and one in particular, said Carpenter, looked like a helical shaving from a lathe. Although they seemed to travel at different speeds, they did not move out and away from the spacecraft as the confetti had in the balloon experiment.\n\nCarpenter also took 19 photos of the flattened sun at orbit sunset.\n\nAt dawn of the third and final orbit, Carpenter inadvertently bumped his hand against the inside wall of the cabin and solved a mystery from the previous flight. The resulting bright shower of particles outside the spacecraft - what John Glenn had called \"fireflies\" - turned out to be ice particles shaken loose from the spacecraft's exterior. Near the end of the flight, Carpenter found that by banging his hand against the wall of the capsule, he could shake more \"fireflies\" loose. At first, it was thought that the particles could be marker dye or shark repellant, both green-colored, however, testing confirmed that neither of those were likely to escape from their packages in zero gravity.\n\nIt was then suspected that the fireflies were either steam from the life support system turning into the snow when exposed to open space or debris on the exterior of the spacecraft being shaken loose, however, the former was considered the more probable explanation. Steam generated by the life support system formed condensation between the spacecraft bulkhead and the heat shield which then escaped into space and froze.\n\nLike Glenn, Carpenter circled the Earth three times. Total time weightless 4 h 39 min 32 s. The performance of the Mercury spacecraft and Atlas launch vehicle was excellent in nearly every respect. All primary mission objectives were achieved. The single mission-critical malfunction which occurred involved a failure in the spacecraft pitch horizon scanner, a component of the automatic control system. This anomaly was adequately compensated for by the pilot in subsequent in-flight operations so that the success of the mission was not compromised. A modification of the spacecraft control-system thrust units was effective. Cabin and pressure-suit temperatures were high but not intolerable. Some uncertainties in the data telemetered from the bioinstrumentation prevailed at times during the flight; however, associated information was available which indicated continued well-being of the astronaut.\n\nEquipment was included in the spacecraft which provided valuable scientific information; notably that regarding liquid behavior in a weightless state, identification of the airglow layer observed by Astronaut Glenn, and photography of terrestrial features and meteorological phenomena. An experiment which was to provide atmospheric drag and color visibility data in space through the deployment of an inflatable sphere was partially successful. The flight further qualified the Mercury spacecraft systems for manned orbital operations and provided evidence for progressing into missions of extended duration and consequently more demanding systems requirements.\n\nPassing over Hawaii at the final orbit, flight director Kraft told Carpenter to begin his retrofire countdown and to shift from manual control to the automatic attitude control. Partly because he had been distracted watching the fireflies Carpenter noted that he had begun his landing preparations late. As he started to align the spacecraft he found that the automatic stabilization system would not hold the required 34-degree pitch and zero-degree yaw attitude. While trying to determine the source of the trouble, he fell behind in his check of other items. When he hurriedly switched to the fly-by-wire control mode, he forgot to switch off the manual system. As a result, both systems were used redundantly together for 10 minutes, and fuel was wasted. \n\nIn addition to the attitude error, Carpenter also activated the retrorockets three seconds late, adding another 15 miles or so to the trajectory error. Due to lack of fuel Carpenter overshot his planned reentry mark and splashed down from the target.\n\nAfter several hours of frantic searching, Carpenter was located in an area northeast of Puerto Rico and taken aboard the aircraft carrier . Other than slight exhaustion, he was in good health and spirits and postflight medical exams did not find any significant physical changes or anomalies.\n\nKraft, however, was unhappy with the astronaut's performance due to his needlessly high expenditure of attitude control fuel, which resulted in reentry and landing taking place well off-course. And so Carpenter was sidelined for future missions. He left the space program in 1964 to participate in the Navy's SEALAB program.\n\n\"Aurora 7\" is displayed at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago, Illinois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5136102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5136102", "title": "Misty Knight", "text": "Misty Knight\n\nMercedes \"Misty\" Knight is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Tony Isabella and Arvell Jones, Knight was first mentioned (by name) in \"Marvel Premiere\" #20 (January 1975) and appeared in the next issue. \n\nWithin the context of the Marvel Universe, Knight is a former NYPD police officer, whose arm was amputated following a bomb attack. After receiving a bionic prosthetic from Tony Stark, she started a private-investigation agency with close friend, Colleen Wing. The two would later form the crime-fighting duo Daughters of the Dragon. As private investigators, Knight and Wing frequently work with Heroes for Hire: Luke Cage and Iron Fist. In 2013, Knight became co-leader of the Valkyrior with Valkyrie in \"Fearless Defenders\" #1 by Cullen Bunn and Will Sliney.\n\nSimone Missick portrays the character in the Marvel Cinematic Universe television series \"Luke Cage\", \"The Defenders\", and the second season of \"Iron Fist\".\n\nMisty Knight was first mentioned in \"Marvel Premiere\" #20 (January 1975) and was created by writer Tony Isabella with artist Arvell Jones. A later retcon in \"Marvel Team-Up\" (1st series) #64 by Chris Claremont and John Byrne would reveal she had previously appeared as an unnamed character in \"Marvel Team-Up\" (1st series) #1 (March 1972), written by Roy Thomas and penciled by Ross Andru. Comics in which Knight and Colleen Wing have starred include a storyline first printed in \"Deadly Hands of Kung-Fu\" #32–33 (January — February 1977) and \"Bizarre Adventures\" #25 (March 1981) by writer Chris Claremont and penciller Marshall Rogers. The original depictions of Knight, a bionically enhanced black female detective with martial arts skills, were strongly influenced by the blaxploitation and Kung Fu crazes of the 1970s. Misty Knight and Iron Fist had the first interracial kiss between super heroes in mainstream comics in 1977. \n\nShe was a longtime supporting character in comic books such as \"X-Men\" and \"Power Man and Iron Fist\"; she also had a major role in the \"Deathlok\" story arc 'Souls of Cyber-Folk' that ran from issue 2–5 of the 1991 \"Deathlok\" series (Vol. 2). The character, alongside her partner Colleen Wing, starred in \"Daughters of the Dragon\", a 2005 six-issue limited series by writers Justin Gray and Jimmy Palmiotti and penciller Khari Evans. Knight is one of the stars of the 2006 \"Heroes for Hire\" series as well as a supporting character in the ongoing series \"The Immortal Iron Fist\".\n\nIn 2010, Knight appears in the crossover event \"Shadowland\", and is the central character in the spin-off title \"Shadowland: Blood on the Street\". She then goes on to star in the new version of \"Heroes for Hire\". Knight appears in the 2013 series \"Fearless Defenders\", by Cullen Bunn and Will Sliney. She was included in 2017 in \"Black Panther & The Crew\", a comic book starring a group of black characters. It was cancelled after six issues for low sales.\n\nMisty Knight was a rising star with the NYPD when she was seriously injured preventing a bomb attack that forced the amputation of her right arm. Rather than take a desk job, she resigned from the police force, though she remained good friends with her long-time partner on the force Rafael Scarfe. Tony Stark provided her a bionic arm which endowed her superhuman strength. Soon after that, she met Spider-Man and then Iron Fist. Misty roomed with X-Men member Marvel Girl until Marvel Girl returned to her life as an X-Man.\n\nMisty teamed with her friend Colleen Wing in fighting the criminal Emil Vachon in the Hong-Kong area. She saved Colleen from an attempted rape. She then set up a private detective agency with Colleen entitled: \"Nightwing Restorations Ltd.\"\n\nSoon after she first met Iron Fist, the two crime fighters fell in love. Misty conducted undercover work against the crime lord John Bushmaster. She aided Iron Fist, Spider-Man, and Colleen Wing against Davos, the Steel Serpent. She then first met and fought Luke Cage, Power Man. Misty's \"Knightwing Restorations Ltd\" detective agency would go on to help Power Man and Iron Fist's Heroes for Hire agency on numerous cases. Misty aided Iron Fist and Power Man in rescuing captives of John Bushmaster, and procured a videotape clearing Cage of crimes. Misty was then captured and nearly killed by Nightshade. She then helped the X-Men, Colleen Wing, and Sunfire against Moses Magnum in Japan. She fought Sabretooth, and then fought Constrictor and Sabretooth together, and was rescued by El Aguila. She escaped captivity, and captured Ward Meachum. Colleen Wing later broke off her friendship with Misty due to Misty's relationship with Tyrone King. Misty rescued Iron Fist from drowning, reconciled with him, and ended her relationship with Tyrone King. Later, when Iron Fist broke up with her, Misty began a short romance with Power Man. This episode was a source of tension between Power Man and Iron Fist for a brief period.\n\nMisty later learned of Iron Fist's apparent demise. Iron Fist was presumed dead for an extended period, until Misty saw the Super-Skrull impersonate Danny Rand (Iron Fist) on television. She confronted the Super-Skrull in his guise as Danny Rand. Misty assisted Namor the Sub-Mariner in finding and saving the hero. They went to the Savage Land, where they learned that the Super-Skrull had been posing as Iron Fist, and Misty aided Namor and Namorita against the Super-Skrull. She and Danny Rand were ultimately reunited and renewed their relationship.\n\nDuring the 2006 \"Civil War\" storyline, Misty Knight and Colleen Wing were contacted by Iron Man, Reed Richards, and Spider-Man to re-form Heroes for Hire in order to track down superhumans who refused to register. Initially hesitant, the pair eventually agree creating a team including Shang-Chi, Humbug, Orka, Black Cat, Paladin, and a new Tarantula. Misty has been identified as one of the 142 registered superheroes who will be a part of the Initiative.\n\nAfter the Civil War between the superheroes ended, Iron Fist was shocked to find that Misty had sided with the Initiative as he had joined the New Avengers. Nevertheless, when the Steel Serpent and HYDRA plotted to kill Iron Fist and destroy the seven cities of heaven (the latter unbeknownst to Steel Serpent), Misty and Colleen rushed with Luke Cage to Danny's aid. Later, the three helped Danny stop a terrorist attack by HYDRA on the mystical city of K'un L'un where Danny told Misty, \"I love you, Misty... but I make a lousy boyfriend.\" Though Danny said this, they continued a sexual relationship and finally committed to each other on his birthday, despite their disagreement over the Superhuman Registration Act.\n\nReturning from a mission to capture Moon-Boy during the \"World War Hulk\" storyline, Heroes for Hire arrive in New York to see that it has been taken over by the Hulk. After being captured by Warbound, Colleen Wing and Tarantula were offered to No-Name the Brood Queen by their possessed teammate Humbug. Misty makes a deal with Paladin to take Moon-Boy (whom Colleen had become attached to) in order to find both Colleen and Tarantula after their capture. When Misty and the other heroes come save them, Colleen is in traumatic shock from the torture she endured; she is further agitated when Moon-Boy is taken into custody by Paladin. Colleen, deeply upset by her friend's actions, leaves the group as a result. Heroes for Hire itself has disbanded permanently in the aftermath of this. Misty becomes depressed due to her actions that led to the breakup of the group. Iron Man later comes to her to enlist her aid in stopping the Hulk's remaining robots; through this, she was able to move past her mistakes.\n\nMisty and Danny move in with each other in Harlem. Danny proposes to Misty and she accepts, after that she tells him that she is pregnant with his child. They have since found out that this was a false pregnancy, causing a strain on their relationship. They decide to move out of their apartment and live separately, but continue their relationship.\n\nFollowing the 2010 \"Shadowland\" storyline, Misty, Colleen Wing, Iron Fist, Luke Cage, and Shang-Chi confront him in attempt to stop him without violence. After a commotion happens elsewhere in his castle, he attacks the group, believing they are responsible.\n\nMisty teams up with Paladin, Silver Sable and the Shroud to discover who is framing the Hand for the murder of a number of New York's mobsters.\n\nFollowing the events of the \"Shadowland\" storyline, Misty revamps the Heroes for Hire concept by basing herself as 'control' and utilizing various street heroes based on their powers and abilities in exchange for money or information. At the end of the first issue, it is revealed that Misty is being manipulated by the Puppet Master. Misty is later freed from mind control with help from Iron Fist and Paladin. After being freed, Paladin approaches Misty to continue the operation Puppet Master set in place, but on her terms.\n\nAs part of the Marvel NOW! initiative, Misty Knight showcases in the comic book alongside Valkyrie where she is one of the members of the Fearless Defenders.\n\nMisty Knight appears during the 2015–17 All-New, All-Different Marvel promotion as a supporting character to Sam Wilson, the new Captain America, who is uneasy now that his friend Steve Rogers has regained his original moniker. Though the two men opt to share the name, many civilians in the Marvel Universe feel that Sam Wilson is undeserving of the title. Misty helps him deal with his doubts and is revealed to be in a sexual relationship with him as well. She then helps clear the names of female heroes and villains, who fell victim to a scandal over embarrassing sex videos posted on the internet.\n\nDuring the \"Hunt for Wolverine\" storyline, Misty Knight has left the NYPD for an unknown reason. She is approached by Daredevil and Nur who enlist her to help find Wolverine after his body goes missing from it's unmarked grave. She takes them to an information broker that she knows who turns out to be Cypher. When Nur hands him a smartphone, Cypher makes use of it and tells Daredevil, Misty Knight, and Nur about the different Wolverine sightings in the past sixty days. Using an Attilan Security Force Skycharger that was \"borrowed\" from the Inhumans, Daredevil, Misty Knight, Nur, and Cypher investigate the sightings of Wolverine in Manhattan, Phoenix, and Chicago. Misty Knight and Nur arrive at McCarthy Medical Institute in Manhattan where Jane Foster was enrolled and learned that an unnamed man delivered flowers. The security footage revealed that it was by someone that resembled Wolverine. In Chicago, Misty Knight learns from a security guard that he deleted a post when he thought he saw Wolverine. When it came to Saskatchewan, they hear that Ranger Outpost Nine in Meadowlake Provincial Park was attacked by a man with claws. When they arrive, Daredevil, Misty Knight, and Nur find the males dead and the female missing as they head into the forest to investigate. When they find Cypher on the ground with a slit throat, Nur works to heal Cypher as Daredevil and Misty Knight discover that the attacker is Albert as they fight him. When Albert grabs Daredevil by the neck and demands to know what he did to Elsie-Dee, Misty Knight combines her bionic arm's attacks with Nur's gun and a recovered Cypher's laser to deactivate Albert as they leave an anonymous tip for the Canadian authorities to come pick him up. Upon returning to Chicago, Daredevil, Misty Knight, and Nur visit the security guard she questioned again only to find him dead and a bomb nearby as it goes off. Misty Knight's cybernetic arm manifested a shield big enough to protect her, Daredevil, and Nur from the explosion. Then they worked to evacuate those who couldn't get out of the burning building. Nur reveals to Misty Knight that his eyes also work like a camera flash as he analyzed the apartment before it blew up. His analysis revealed that the security guard worked for a group called Soteira which was listed as an asset management company. Daredevil, Misty Knight, and Nur head to one of their offices in Chicago where Daredevil's radar detects the people inside purging their records. As the group crashes through the window, Nur holds the workers a gunpoint as Cypher works to see if he can stop whatever they were doing on the computer. Misty Knight works to protect Cypher who retrieves the data as the four of them escape from the Level Four Killteam. When Misty Knight asks what to do next, Daredevil states that he is grateful for their help as this is no longer a missing persons case. As Nur asks what he plans to do with the drive after getting him, Misty Knight, and Cypher back to New York, Daredevil says that he is giving it to Kitty Pryde while informing her on who else is looking for Wolverine and what they are walking into. Nur recaps his wife leaving him following his Terrigenesis and tells Misty Knight that he looks forward to working with her again.\n\nMisty Knight is a highly skilled combatant who, in addition to her police-combat training, is proficient in martial arts and possesses near-perfect aim with firearms. She is a superb detective, having graduated at the top of her class at the police academy and earned a degree in criminology from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Her bionic arm is superhumanly strong, and she can punch a target with incredible force, or crush objects as tough as steel in her vise-like grip. Since the rest of her body is not cybernetically enhanced, she cannot lift objects heavier than her back, shoulders, and legs can physically support. Her arm's advantages as a weapon are limited to kinetic crushing and impact forces.\n\nHer original bionic right arm was constructed from steel, and designed by Stark International. Her new arm was built by Stark Industries and is an alloy of Antarctic vibranium and diamond; at close range it can liquefy all known metals, including adamantium. It is now able to generate a wide anti-gravity repulsor field similar to Iron Man's armor. It can apparently release a concentrated beam of cryogenic energy, which can cover a target in a blanket of ice from a distance. This cold seems to make the target much more fragile, allowing otherwise durable materials to be broken or rended when frozen. Iron Man revealed the arm also displays technopathic capabilities, teaching Misty how to control a horde of robots. Following her \"pregnancy\", Danny Rand spent money on additional features to the arm, including magnetism and a concussive blast.\n\nIn the \"Age of Apocalypse\" reality, Misty was one of many 'flatscans'- non-mutants- forced underground by Apocalypse. When her friends were attacked by a Brood, that had come to Earth, Misty escaped with the aid of Scott and Alex Summers, only to subsequently die fighting the reanimated corpses of her former friends.\n\nIn the alternate future of the MC2 universe, Misty eventually settled down and married Iron Fist. Unfortunately, at some point in the past, she died of cancer. Because of this Iron Fist gave up crime-fighting, and began to live as a simple martial arts trainer.\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel Universe version of Misty Knight has appeared in the 2006 limited series \"Ultimate Extinction\" which was written by Warren Ellis and drawn by Brandon Peterson. She appears to have the same origin story as before, with an artificial arm created by Tony Stark. While investigating a \"Paul Maitreya\", a cult leader who resembles the Silver Surfer, she encounters a bald-headed woman who shoots Paul and his cult before escaping Misty. This woman appears to be one of an army of genetic clones of Heather Douglas a.k.a. Moondragon.\n\nIn \"Ultimate Mystery\", Misty Knight appears as a member of Roxxon Brain Trust.\n\nIn the alternate timeline of the 2005 \"House of M\" storyline, Misty Knight is part of Luke Cage's resistance and is killed when a Sentinel attacks their base and Cloak fails to teleport her out. It was revealed within the past that Misty was originally placed in Luke Cage's Avengers as an NYPD spy operating under John Proudstar, but defected to the Avengers after refusing Proudstar's order to kill Cage. Misty eventually became Luke's lover, after some time has passed since the Taskmaster's murder of Tigra. It was Misty who realized that Luke's Avengers were inspiring non-mutants to fight for their rights as \"Sapien\" and tried to convince Cage to think beyond protecting Sapien Town.\n\nIn \"newuniversal: Shockfront\" #1, Knight appears as a detective assigned to apprehend John Tensen. She is partnered with Jean DeWolff.\n\nIn A.I.M.'s pocket dimension of Earth-13584, Misty Knight appears as a member of Spider-Man's gang.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7025174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7025174", "title": "Najm ad-Din Ayyub", "text": "Najm ad-Din Ayyub\n\nal-Malik al-Afdal Najm ad-Din Ayyub ibn Shadhi ibn Marwan (Arabic: الملك ألأفضل نجم الدين أيوب بن شاﺬي بن مروان) (died August 9, 1173) was a Kurdish soldier and politician from Dvin, and the father of Saladin. He is eponymous ancestor of the Ayyubid dynasty.\n\nAyyub was the son of Shadhi ibn Marwan and brother of Shirkuh. The family belonged to the tribe of Revend or Revendi, also Rawadiya,\nitself a branch of the Hadhabani tribe. The earliest form of the name is written \"Rewend\" in the Sharafnama. According to Vladimir Minorsky, this could have been a corruption of the Arabic name \"Rawadiya\". In contrast, the name of \"Rewend\" or in some cases \"Revend\" means \"Nomad\" in Kurdish and this name was mostly applied to nomad Kurdish tribes in the region. Minorsky thus leaves space for a possible Arabic influence on the tribe, although they are generally considered to be Kurdish. Furthermore, Minorsky states that the rulers of the tribe could have given their name to it. In other words, it is possible that the Rewend/Rawadiya rulers were of Arab origin, and arrived in the Dvin region in 758 CE from the Arbela (modern Arbil) region. Further it should be considered that Vladimir Minorsky's research was based upon subjective writings of Kurdish medieval historian Ibn Athir.\n\nThe family were closely connected to the Shaddadid dynasty, and when the last Shaddadid was deposed in Dvin in 1130, Shadhi moved the family first to Baghdad and then to Tikrit, where he was appointed governor by the regional administrator Bihruz. Ayyub succeeded his father as governor of Tikrit when Shadhi died soon after.\n\nIn 1132 Ayyub was in the service of Imad ad-Din Zengi. He participated in a battle against the Seljuk Sultan near Tikrit and saved Zengi's life when he assisted his retreat across the Tigris. In 1136, Shirkuh killed a Christian with whom he was quarrelling in Tikrit, and the brothers were exiled (Ayyub's son Yusuf, later known as Saladin, was supposedly born the night they left). Zengi later appointed Ayyub governor of Baalbek, and when the town was besieged in 1146 by Mu'in ad-Din Unur, the atabeg of the Burid emir of Damascus, Ayyub surrendered it and retired to Damascus. Shirkuh, meanwhile, entered the service of Zengi's son Nur ad-Din Zengi, who had designs on Damascus; when the Second Crusade besieged the city in 1148, Nur ad-Din forced Mu'in ad-Din and the Burids into a reluctant alliance. Soon Nur ad-Din demanded the city be handed over to him, and Ayyub and Shirkuh negotiated its surrender in 1154. Ayyub remained governor of Damascus under Nur ad-Din's rule. He was held in such honour that he was the only one of Nur ad-Din's officials allowed to remain seated in his presence.\n\nAyyub's son Saladin also took up service with Nur ad-Din, and he was sent to Egypt to take control in Nur ad-Din's name during the period of joint crusader-Byzantine invasions. In 1170 Ayyub joined him there, either summoned by Saladin himself, or sent by Nur ad-Din to convince Saladin to depose the last Fatimid caliph. Saladin offered the vizierate to him, but he refused, and instead was granted Alexandria, Damietta, and Al Buhayrah as personal fiefs. Many of Saladin's other relatives also joined him in Egypt. Nur ad-Din did not trust Saladin and his family, correctly assuming that they were consolidating power against him; Ayyub publicly supported Nur ad-Din, but privately warned his son that Nur ad-Din should never be allowed to take Egypt from him.\n\nNajm ad-Din Ayyub was injured in a horse riding accident on July 31, 1173, and died on August 9. His death exacerbated the tension between Saladin and Nur ad-Din; the latter had summoned the former to assist in an expedition against the Kingdom of Jerusalem, but Saladin returned home when he heard of his father's death. However the expected confrontation between Nur ad-Din and Saladin did not occur, as Nur ad-Din died the next year, and Saladin eventually took control of the whole of Egypt and Syria.\n\nAccording to Baha ad-Din ibn Shaddad, Ayyub was \"a noble, generous man, mild and of excellent character.\" He was also \"passionately fond of polo\". Ibn al-Qalanisi calls him \"a man of resolution, intelligence and knowledge of affairs\", who prudently handed over Baalbek to a superior force in return for rewards and honours.\n\nHis given name was Ayyub (Job), from which comes the Ayyubid dynasty of Saladin and his successors. Najm ad-Din is an honorific meaning \"star of the faith\".\n\nAyyub had several children:\n\n"}
{"id": "40833351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40833351", "title": "Neville Sellwood", "text": "Neville Sellwood\n\nNeville Francis \"Nifty\" Sellwood (2 December 1922 − 7 November 1962) was an Australian jockey who was known for, among other victories, riding Delta and Toparoa to victory in the 1951 and 1955 Melbourne Cup races, respectively. He also rode Larkspur to victory in the 1962 Epsom Derby. The Neville Sellwood Stakes, hosted by the Australian Turf Club, was named in honour of him. \n\nSellwood was born on 2 December 1922 in Hamilton, an inner-suburb of Brisbane, Queensland.\n\nSellwood died after the horse he was riding slipped and fell on the track of the Maisons-Laffitte Racecourse on 7 November 1962, aged 39, in Maisons-Laffitte, France.\n\nIn 2002, Sellwood was inducted into the Australian Racing Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "12312801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12312801", "title": "Odessa Grady Clay", "text": "Odessa Grady Clay\n\nOdessa Lee Clay (née O'Grady; February 12, 1917 – August 20, 1994) was the mother of three-time World Heavyweight Champion Muhammad Ali and Rahman Ali, and the grandmother of Laila Ali. She married Cassius Marcellus Clay, Sr. in the 1930s and worked for some time as a household domestic to help support her young children.\n\nShe was born in Hopkins County, Kentucky, one of six children of John Lewis O'Grady and Birdie B. Morehead. Her paternal grandfather was a white Irishman named Abe O'Grady, who emigrated to the United States from Ennis, County Clare, soon after the Civil War and married a daughter of Lewis and Amanda J. \"Mandy\" Walker of Todd County, Kentucky. Her maternal grandfather, Tom Morehead, was the son of a white Morehead and a slave named Dinah. Morehead served in the 122nd USCT.\n\nClay's parents separated when she was young, and her mother worked as a maid, taking care of the household chores and the young children of a white family. Clay was raised partly by her aunt. When she became an adolescent, she dropped out of school and also found work as a domestic. Then, when she was sixteen years old, she met twenty-year-old Cassius, whom everyone referred to as \"Cash\". They soon married and settled into their own house in Louisville, Kentucky. The Clays' marriage was troubled. Ali told boxing promoters, \"She's afraid of him.\"\n\nThrough her strong Christian belief, Clay had a great influence on the life and spiritual upbringing of both of her sons. Muhammad Ali later said, \"My mother is a Baptist, and when I was growing up, she taught me all she knew about God. Every Sunday, she dressed me up, took me and my brother to church, and taught us the way she thought was right. She taught us to love people and treat everybody with kindness. She taught us it was wrong to be prejudiced or hate. I've changed my religion and some of my beliefs since then, but her God is still God; I just call him by a different name. And my mother, I'll tell you what I've told people for a long time. She's a sweet, fat, wonderful woman, who loves to cook, eat, make clothes, and be with family. She doesn't drink, smoke, meddle in other people's business, or bother anyone, and there's no one who's been better to me my whole life.\"\n\nClay supported and inspired her son throughout his boxing career. At small gyms early in her son's career and later at international arenas when he became world-famous, Clay traveled with her son and was a ring-side regular at his bouts. Muhammad Ali was much closer to his mother, whom he lovingly called \"Bird\", than to his father. After discovering boxing, it was his mother with whom he shared his dreams of greatness.\n\nClay's husband died in 1990. Odessa Clay died of heart failure on August 20, 1994, at Hurstbourne Health Center, a nursing home in the Louisville, Kentucky area. She had been disabled by a stroke since February 1994, according to a family friend.\n\nOdessa Clay appeared as herself in the film documentaries \"Muhammad Ali: The Whole Story\" (1996) and \"When We Were Kings\" (1996). In the 1977 film \"The Greatest\", Odessa Clay was portrayed by Dorothy Meyer, and in the 2001 film \"Ali\" she was portrayed by Candy Ann Brown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31646886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31646886", "title": "Oyster thief", "text": "Oyster thief\n\nOyster thief is a common name for two unrelated species of seaweed:\n\n"}
{"id": "1749496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749496", "title": "Parental investment", "text": "Parental investment\n\nParental investment, in evolutionary biology and evolutionary psychology, is any parental expenditure (e.g. time, energy, resources) that benefits offspring. Parental investment may be performed by both males and females (biparental care), females alone (exclusive maternal care) or males alone (exclusive paternal care). Care can be provided at any stage of the offspring's life, from pre-natal (e.g. egg guarding and incubation in birds, and placental nourishment in mammals) to post-natal (e.g. food provisioning and protection of offspring).\n\nIn 1930, Ronald Fisher wrote \"The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection\", in which he introduced the modern concept of parental investment, introduced the sexy son hypothesis, and introduced Fisher's principle. In 1948, Angus John Bateman published an influential study of fruit flies in which he concluded that because female gametes are more costly to produce than male gametes, the reproductive success of females was limited by the ability to produce ovum, and the reproductive success of males was limited by access to females. In 1972, Robert Trivers' continued this line of thinking with his proposal of parental investment theory, which describes how parental investment affects sexual behavior. He concludes that the sex that has higher parental investment will be more selective when choosing a mate. This theory has been influential in explaining sex differences in sexual selection and mate preferences. \n\nParental investment theory is a branch of life history theory. The earliest consideration of parental investment is given by Ronald Fisher in his 1930 book \"The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection\", wherein Fisher argued that parental expenditure on both sexes of offspring should be equal. Clutton-Brock expanded the concept of parental investment to include costs to any other component of parental fitness.\n\nMale dunnocks tend to not discriminate between their own young and those of another male in polyandrous or polygynandrous systems. They increase their own reproductive success through feeding the offspring in relation to their own access to the female throughout the mating period, which is generally a good predictor of paternity. This indiscriminative parental care by males is also observed in redlip blennies.\n\nIn some insects, male parental investment is given in the form of a nuptial gift. For instance, ornate moth females receive a spermatophore containing nutrients, sperm and defensive toxins from the male during copulation. This gift, which can account for up to 10% of the male's body mass, constitutes the total parental investment the male provides.\n\nIn some species, such as humans and many birds, the offspring are altricial and unable to fend for themselves for an extended period of time after birth. In these species, males invest more in their offspring than do the male parents of precocial species, since reproductive success would otherwise suffer.\nThe benefits of parental investment to the offspring are large and are associated with the effects on condition, growth, survival, and ultimately on reproductive success of the offspring. For example, in the cichlid fish \"Tropheus moorii\", a female has very high parental investment in her young because she mouthbroods the young and while mouthbrooding, all nourishment she takes in goes to feed the young and she effectively starves herself. In doing this, her young are larger, heavier, and faster than they would have been without it. These benefits are very advantageous since it lowers their risk of being eaten by predators and size is usually the determining factor in conflicts over resources. However, such benefits can come at the cost of parent's ability to reproduce in the future e.g., through increased risk of injury when defending offspring against predators, loss of mating opportunities whilst rearing offspring, and an increase in the time interval until the next reproduction.\n\nA special case of parental investment is when young do need nourishment and protection, but the genetic parents do not actually contribute in the effort to raise their own offspring. For example, in \"Bombus terrestris\", oftentimes sterile female workers will not reproduce on their own, but will raise their mother's brood instead. This is common in social Hymenoptera due to haplodiploidy, whereby males are haploid and females are diploid. This ensures that sisters are more related to each other than they ever would be to their own offspring, incentivizing them to help raise their mother's young over their own.\n\nOverall, parents are selected to maximize the difference between the benefits and the costs, and parental care will be likely to evolve when the benefits exceed the costs.\n\nReproduction is costly. Individuals are limited in the degree to which they can devote time and resources to producing and raising their young, and such expenditure may also be detrimental to their future condition, survival, and further reproductive output.\nHowever, such expenditure is typically beneficial to the offspring, enhancing their condition, survival, and reproductive success. These differences may lead to parent-offspring conflict. Parents are naturally selected to maximize the difference between the benefits and the costs, and parental care will tend to exist when the benefits are substantially greater than the costs.\n\nParents are equally related to all offspring, and so in order to optimize their fitness and chance of reproducing their genes, they should distribute their investment equally among current and future offspring. However, any single offspring is more related to themselves (they have 100% of their DNA in common with themselves) than they are to their siblings (siblings usually share 50% of their DNA), it is best for the offspring's fitness if the parent(s) invest more in them. To optimize fitness, a parent would want to invest in each offspring equally, but each offspring would want a larger share of parental investment. The parent is selected to invest in the offspring up until the point at which investing in the current offspring is costlier than investing in future offspring.\n\nIn iteroparous species, where individuals may go through several reproductive bouts during their lifetime, a tradeoff may exist between investment in current offspring and future reproduction. Parents need to balance their offspring's demands against their own self-maintenance. This potential negative effect of parental care was explicitly formalized by Trivers in 1972, who originally defined the term \"parental investment\" to mean \"any investment by the parent in an individual offspring that increases the offspring's chance of surviving (and hence reproductive success) at the cost of the parent's ability to invest in other offspring\".\n\nPenguins are a prime example of a species that drastically sacrifices their own health and well-being in exchange for the survival of their offspring. This behavior, one that does not necessarily benefit the individual, but the genetic code from which the individual arises, can be seen in the King Penguin. Although some animals do exhibit altruistic behaviors towards individuals that are not of direct relation, many of these behaviors appear mostly in parent-offspring relationships. While breeding, males remain in a fasting-period at the breeding site for five weeks, waiting for the female to return for her own incubation shift. However, during this time period, males may decide to abandon their egg if the female is delayed in her return to the breeding grounds.\n\nIt shows that these penguins initially show a trade-off of their own health, in hopes of increasing the survivorship of their egg. But there comes a point where the male penguin's costs become too high in comparison to the gain of a successful breeding season. Olof Olsson investigated the correlation between how many experiences in breeding an individual has and the duration an individual will wait until abandoning his egg. He proposed that the more experienced the individual, the better that individual will be at replenishing his exhausted body reserves, allowing him to remain at the egg for a longer period of time.\n\nThe males' sacrifice of their body weight and possible survivorship, in order to increase their offspring's chance of survival is a trade-off between current reproductive success and the parents' future survival. This trade-off makes sense with other examples of kin-based altruism and is a clear example of the use of altruism in an attempt to increase overall fitness of an individual's genetic material at the expense of the individual's future survival.\n\nThe maternal-offspring conflict has also been studied in animals species and humans. One such case has been documented in the mid-1970s by ethologist Wulf Schiefenhövel. Eipo women of West New Guinea engage in a cultural practice in which they give birth just outside of the village. Following the birth of their child, each woman weighed whether or not she should keep the child or leave the child in the brush nearby, leaving it to die \n. Likelihood of survival and availability of resources within the village were factors that played into the decision of keeping the child. During one illustrated birth, the mother felt the child was too ill and would not survive, so she wrapped the child up, preparing to leave the child in the brush; however, after seeing the child moving, the mother unwrapped the child and brought it into the village, demonstrating the shift from a state of not able to be a villager to a state of being welcomed into the community \n. This conflict between the mother and the child resulted in detachment behaviors in Brazil, seen in Scheper-Hughes work as \"many Alto abies remain[ed] not only unchristened but unnamed until they begin to walk or talk\" , or if a medical crisis arose and the baby needed an emergency baptism. This conflict between survival, both emotional and physical, prompted a shift in cultural practices, thus resulting in new forms of investment from the mother towards the child.\n\nParental investment behavior enhances the chances of survival of offspring, and it does not require underlying mechanisms to be compatible with empathy applicable to adults, or situations involving unrelated offspring, and it does not require the offspring to reciprocate the altruistic behavior in any way. Parentally investing individuals are not more vulnerable to being exploited by other adults.\n\nParental investment as defined by Trivers in 1972 is the investment in offspring by the parent that increases the offspring's chances of surviving and hence reproductive success at the expense of the parent's ability to invest in other offspring. A large parental investment largely decreases the parents' chances of investing in other offspring. Parental investment can be split into two main categories: mating investment and rearing investment. \nMating investment consist of the sexual act and the sex cells invested. The rearing investment is the time and energy expended to raise the offspring after conception. \nWomen's parental investment in both mating and rearing efforts greatly surpasses that of the male. In terms of sex cells (egg and sperms cells), the female's investment is a lot larger, while males produce thousands of sperm cells which are supplied at a rate of twelve million per hour. \n\nWomen have a fixed supply of around 400 ova. Also, the acts of fertilization and gestation occur in the women, which compared to the male's investment of just one cell outweighs it. Furthermore, each intercourse could result in a nine-month commitment such as gestation (the act of breastfeeding) for the woman. From Trivers' theory of parental investment several implications follow. The first is that women are often but not always the more investing sex. The fact that they are the more investing sex has meant that evolution has favored females who are more selective of their mates to ensure that intercourse would not result in unnecessary costs. The third implication is that because women invest more and are essential for the reproductive success of their offspring they are a valuable resource for men; as a result, males often compete for sexual access to them.\n\nDue to the heavy investment that women engage in after conception, evolution has favored women who are more selective of their partners. Therefore, generally speaking, women are more discriminating about their partners. Their mate preferences usually include males which are of good financial status, and could therefore invest more resources; who are more committed, and would therefore dedicate more time and energy; who are more athletic, as they would be better at protecting and defending the female and her offspring; and who are healthier, again with the prospect in mind that they would ensure healthy offspring.\n\nWomen's preferences for mates, however, vary depending on their context. There are two contexts which have been identified to affect preferences. The first is women's personal resources, also referred to as the \"structural powerlessness hypothesis\". According to this hypothesis women strive to find mates which have access to resources mainly because they themselves are excluded from them and they are usually largely controlled by men. Therefore, women see finding a mate with a lot of resources as a channel to gain access to these resources. However, this hypothesis has been disproved by studies such as the one done by Buss which found that successful women place even greater importance on financial and societal status as well as on professional degrees. Another way to look at female choosing male based on their resource is in the nonhuman kingdom. A great example of this is in polygynous mating, where males will compete with other males for territories with rich resources. When one male is able to take control of a spot then he will be able to drawn in females and mate with them based on the fact that they are in control of the territory. \n\nAnother context which is known to alter female’s preferences for mates is temporal boundaries. Studies by Buss and Schmitt have found that women put great emphasis on career-orientation, ambition and devotion only when considering a long-term partner. When marriage is not involved often females would put greater emphasis on looks. This could be explained through parental investment theory because when women expect to have offspring from a particular mate they employ a more demanding criteria as they know it will affect the reproductive success of their offspring, however when looking at short-term mating which would not involve long-term commitments, females are less selective. Of course, this alternation is only possible for humans with birth control technology which was not available in the past.\n\nFor many species the only type of male investment received is that of sex cells. In those terms, the female investment greatly exceeds that of male investment as previously mentioned. However, there are other ways in which males invest in their offspring. For example, the male can find food as in the example of balloon flies. He may find a safe environment for the female to feed or lay her eggs as exemplified in many birds. \n\nHe may also protect the young and provide them with opportunities to learn as in many young as in wolves. Overall, the main role that males overtake is that of protection of the female and their young. That often can decrease the discrepancy of investment caused by the initial investment of sex cells. There are some species such as the Mormon cricket, pipefish seahorse and Panamanian poison arrow frog males invest more. Among the species where the male invests more, the male is also the pickier sex, placing higher demands on their selected female. For example, the female that they often choose usually contain 60% more eggs than rejected females. \n\nThis links Parental Investment Theory (PIT) with sexual selection: where parental investment is bigger for a male than a female, it's usually the female who competes for a mate, as shown by Phalaropidae and polyandrous bird species. In these species females are usually more aggressive, brightly colored, and larger than males, suggesting the more investing sex has more choice while selecting a mate compared to the sex engaged in intra-sexual selection.\n\nThe second prediction that follows from Trivers' theory is that the fact that women invest more heavily in offspring makes them a valuable resource for males as it ensures the survival of their offspring which is the driving force of natural selection. Therefore, the sex that invests less in offspring will compete among themselves to breed with the more heavily investing sex. In other words, males will compete for females. \nIt has been argued that jealousy has developed to avert the risk of potential loss of parental investment in offspring. \n\nIf a male redirects his resources to another female it is a costly loss of time, energy and resources for her offspring. However, the risks for males are higher because although women invest more in their offspring, they have bigger maternity certainty because they themselves have carried out the child. However, males can never have 100% paternal certainty and therefore risk investing resources and time in offspring that is genetically unrelated. Evolutionary psychology views jealousy as an adaptive response to this problem.\n\nTrivers' theory has been very influential as the predictions it makes correspond to differences in sexual behaviors of men and women, as demonstrated by a variety of research. Cross-cultural study from Buss (1989) shows that males are tuned into physical attractiveness as it signals youth and fertility and ensures male reproductive success, which is increased by copulating with as many fertile females as possible. Women on the other hand are tuned into resources provided by potential mates, as their reproductive success is increased by ensuring their offspring will survive, and one way they do so is by getting resources for them. Alternatively, another study shows that men are more promiscuous than women, giving further support to this theory. Clark and Hatfield found that 75% of men were willing to have sex with a female stranger when propositioned, compared to 0% of women. On the other hand, 50% of women agreed to a date with a male stranger. This suggests males seek short term relationships, while women show a strong preference for long-term relationships.\n\nHowever, these preferences (male promiscuity and female choosiness) can be explained in other ways. In Western cultures, male promiscuity is encouraged through the availability of pornographic magazines and videos targeted to the male audience. Alternatively, both Western and Eastern cultures discourage female promiscuity through social checks such as slut-shaming.\n\nPIT (Parental Investment Theory) also explains patterns of sexual jealousy. He found males are more likely to show a stress response when imagining their partners showing sexual infidelity (having sexual relations with someone else), and women showed more stress when imagining their partner being emotionally unfaithful (being in love with another woman). PIT explains this, as woman's sexual infidelity decreases the male's paternal certainty, thus he will show more stress due to fear of cuckoldry. On the other hand, the woman fears losing the resources her partner provides. If her partner has an emotional attachment to another female it's likely that he won't invest into their offspring as much, thus a greater stress response is shown in this circumstance.\n\nA heavy criticism of the theory comes from Thornhill and Palmer's analysis of it in \"\", as it seems to rationalise rape and sexual coercion of females. Thornhill and Palmer claimed rape is an evolved technique for obtaining mates in an environment where women choose mates. As PIT claims males seek to copulate with as many fertile females as possible, the choice women have could result in a negative effect on the male's reproductive success. If women didn't choose their mates, Thornhill and Palmer claim there would be no rape. This ignores a variety of sociocultural factors, such as the fact that not only fertile females are raped – 34% of underage rape victims are under 12, which means they are not of fertile age, thus there is no evolutionary advantage in raping them. 14% of rapes in England are committed on males, who cannot increase a man's reproductive success as there will be no conception. Thus, what Thornhill and Palmer called an 'evolved machinery' might not be very advantageous.\n\nTrivers' theory overlooks that women do have short-term relationships such as one-night stands, while not all men behave promiscuously. An alternative explanation to PIT (Parental Investment Theory) and mate preferences would be Buss and Schmitt's sexual strategies theory. SST argues that both sexes pursue short-term and long-term relationships, but seek different qualities in their short- and long-term partners. For a short-term relationship women will prefer an attractive partner, but in a long-term relationship they might be willing to trade-off that attractiveness for resources and commitment. On the other hand, men might be accepting of a sexually willing partner in a short-term relationships, but to ensure their paternal certainty they will seek a faithful partner instead.\n\nParental investment is not only used to explain evolutionary phenomena and human behavior but describes recurrences in international politics as well. Specifically, parental investment is referred to when describing competitive behaviors between states and determining aggressive nature of foreign policies. The parental investment hypothesis states that the size of coalitions and the physical strengths of its male members determines whether its activities with its foreign neighbors are aggressive or amiable. \nAccording to Triver, men have had relatively low parental investments, and were therefore forced into fiercer competitive situations over limited reproductive resources. Sexual selection naturally took place and men have evolved to address its unique reproductive problems. Among other adaptations, men's psychology has also developed to directly aid men in such intra-sexual competition.\nOne essential psychological developments involved decision-making of whether to take flight or actively engage in warfare with another rivalry group. The two main factors that men referred to in such situations were (1) whether the coalition they are a part of is larger than its opposition and (2) whether the men in their coalition have greater physical strength than the other. The male psychology conveyed in the ancient past has been passed on to modern times causing men to partly think and behave as they have during ancestral wars. According to this theory, leaders of international politics were not an exception. For example, the United States expected to win the Vietnam war due to its greater military capacity when compared to its enemies. Yet victory, according to the traditional rule of greater coalition size, did not come about because the U.S. did not take enough consideration to other factors, such as the perseverance of the local population.\n\nThe parental investment hypothesis contends that male physical strength of a coalition still determines the aggressiveness of modern conflicts between states. While this idea may seem unreasonable upon considering that male physical strength is one of the least determining aspects of today's warfare, human psychology has nevertheless evolved to operate on this basis. Moreover, although it may seem that mate seeking motivation is no longer a determinant, in modern wars sexuality, such as rape, is undeniably evident in conflicts even to this day.\n\nIn many species, males can produce a larger number of offspring over the course of their lives by minimizing parental investment in favor of investing time impregnating any reproductive-age female who is fertile. In contrast, a female can have a much smaller number of offspring during her reproductive life, partly due to higher obligate parental investment. Females will be more selective (\"choosy\") of mates than males will be, choosing males with good fitness (e.g., genes, high status, resources, etc.), so as to help offset any lack of direct parental investment from the male, and therefore increase reproductive success. Robert Trivers' theory of parental investment predicts that the sex making the largest investment in lactation, nurturing, and protecting offspring will be more discriminating in mating; and that the sex that invests less in offspring will compete via intrasexual selection for access to the higher-investing sex (see Bateman's principle).\n\nIn species where both sexes invest highly in parental care, mutual choosiness is expected to arise. An example of this is seen in crested auklets, where parents share equal responsibility in incubating their single egg and raising the chick. In crested auklets both sexes are ornamented.\n\nHumans have evolved increasing levels of parental investment, both biologically and behaviorally. The fetus requires high investment from the mother, and the altricial newborn requires high investment from a community.\n\nTrivers (1972) hypothesized that greater biologically obligated investment will predict greater voluntary investment. Mothers invest an impressive amount in their children before they are even born. The time and nutrients required to develop the fetus, and the risks associated with both giving these nutrients and undergoing childbirth, are a sizable investment. To ensure that this investment is not for nothing, mothers are likely to invest in their children after they are born, to be sure that they survive and are successful.\n\nThe developing human fetus––and especially the brain––requires nutrients to grow. In the later weeks of gestation, the fetus requires increasing nutrients as the growth of the brain increases. Rodents and primates have the most invasive placenta phenotype, the hemochorial placenta, in which the chorion erodes the uterine epithelium and has direct contact with maternal blood. The other placental phenotypes are separated from the maternal bloodstream by at least one layer of tissue. The more invasive placenta allows for a more efficient transfer of nutrients between the mother and fetus, but it comes with risks as well. The fetus is able to release hormones directly into the mother’s bloodstream to “demand” increased resources. This can result in health problems for the mother, such as pre-eclampsia. During childbirth, the detachment of the placental chorion can cause excessive bleeding.\n\nRelative to most other species, human mothers give more resources to their offspring at a higher risk to their own health, even before the child is born. This is associated with the evolution of a slower life history, in which fewer, larger offspring are born after longer intervals, requiring increased parental investment.\n\nHumans have evolved both bipedalism and large brain size. The evolution of bipedalism altered the shape of the pelvis, and shrunk the birth canal at the same time brains were evolving to be larger. The decreasing birth canal size meant that babies were born earlier in development, when they have smaller brains. Humans give birth to babies with brains 25% developed, while other primates give birth to offspring with brains 45-50% developed. A second possible explanation for the early birth in humans is the energy required to grow and sustain a larger brain. Supporting a larger brain gestationally requires energy the mother may be unable to invest.\n\nSpecies whose newborn young are unable to move on their own and require parental care have a high degree of altriciality. Human children are born unable to care for themselves and require additional parental investment post-birth in order to survive.\n\nThe obstetrical dilemma makes birth challenging, and a distinguishing trait of humans is the need for assistance during childbirth. The altered shape of the bipedal pelvis requires that babies leave the birth canal facing away from the mother, contrary to all other primate species. This makes it more difficult for the mother to clear the baby’s breathing passageways, to make sure the umbilical cord isn’t wrapped around the neck, and to pull the baby free without bending its body the wrong way.\n\nThe human need to have a birth attendant also requires sociality. In order to guarantee the presence of a birth attendant, humans must aggregate in groups. It has been controversially claimed that humans have eusociality, like ants and bees, in which there is relatively high parental investment, cooperative care of young, and division of labor. It is unclear which evolved first; sociality, bipedalism, or birth attendance. Bonobos, our closest living relatives alongside chimpanzees, have high female sociality and births among bonobos are also social events. Sociality may have been a prerequisite for birth attendance, and bipedalism and birth attendance could have evolved as long as five million years ago.\n\nAs female primates age, their ability to reproduce decreases. The grandmother hypothesis describes the evolution of menopause, which may or may not be unique to humans among primates. As women age, the costs of investing in additional reproduction increase and the benefits decrease. At menopause, it is more beneficial to stop reproduction and begin investing in grandchildren. Grandmothers are certain of their genetic relation to their grandchildren, especially the children of their daughters, because maternal certainty of their own children is high, and their daughters are certain of their maternity to their children as well. It has also been theorized that grandmothers preferentially invest in the daughters of their daughters because X chromosomes carry more DNA and their granddaughters are most closely related to them. \n\nAs altriciality increased, investment from individuals other than the mother became more necessary. High sociality meant that female relatives were present to help the mother, but paternal investment increased as well. Paternal investment increases as it becomes more difficult to have additional children, and as the effects of investment on offspring fitness increase.\n\nMen are more likely than women to give no parental investment to their children, and the children of low-investing fathers are more likely to give less parental investment to their own children. Father absence is a risk factor for both early sexual activity and teenage pregnancy. Father absence raises children's stress levels, which are linked to earlier onset of sexual activity and increased short-term mating orientation. Daughters of absent fathers are more likely to seek short-term partners, and one theory explains this as a preference for outside (non-partner) social support because of the perceived uncertain future and uncertain availability of committing partners in a high-stress environment.\n\nWomen can only get pregnant while ovulating. Human ovulation is concealed, or not signaled externally. Concealed ovulation decreases paternity certainty because men are unsure when women ovulate. The evolution of concealed ovulation has been theorized to be a result of altriciality and increased need for paternal investment. There are two ways this could be true. First, if men are unsure of the time of ovulation, the best way to successfully reproduce would be to repeatedly mate with a woman throughout her cycle, which requires pair bonding, which in turn increases paternal investment. The second theory states that decreased paternity certainty would increase paternal investment in polygamous groups, because more men may invest in the offspring. The second theory is better regarded today, because all mammals with concealed ovulation are promiscuous, and men display relatively low mate-guarding behavior, as monogamy and the first theory require. \n\nSociosexuality was first described by Alfred Kinsey as a willingness to engage in casual and uncommitted sexual relationships. Sociosexual orientation describes sociosexuality on a scale from unrestricted to restricted. Individuals with an unrestricted sociosexual orientation have higher openness to sex in less committed relationships, and individuals with a restricted sociosexual orientation have lower openness to casual sexual relationships. However, today it is acknowledged that sociosexuality does not in reality exist on a one-dimensional scale. Individuals who are less open to casual relationships are not always seeking committed relationships, and individuals who are less interested in committed relationships are not always interested in casual relationships. Short- and long-term mating orientations are the modern descriptors of openness to uncommitted and committed relationships, respectively. \n\nParental investment theory, as proposed by Trivers, argues that the sex with higher obligatory investment will be more selective in choosing sex partners, and the sex with lower obligatory investment will be less selective and more interested in \"casual\" mating opportunities. The more investing sex cannot reproduce as frequently, causing the less investing sex to compete for mating opportunities. In humans, women have higher obligatory investment (pregnancy and childbirth), than men (sperm production). Women are more likely to have higher long-term mating orientations, and men are more likely to have higher short-term mating orientations.\n\nSexual dimorphism is the difference in body size between male and female members of a species as a result of intrasexual selection, which is sexual selection that acts within a sex. High sexual dimorphism and larger body size in males is a result of male-male competition for females. Primate species in which groups are formed of many females and one male have higher sexual dimorphism than species that have both multiple females and males, or one female and one male. Polygynous primates have the highest sexual dimorphism, and polygamous and monogamous primates have less. Humans have the lowest levels of sexual dimorphism of any primate species, indicating that we have evolved decreasing levels of polygyny. Decreased polygyny is associated with increased paternal investment.\n\nThe demographic transition describes the modern decrease in both birth and death rates. From a Darwinian perspective, it does not make sense that families with more resources are having fewer children. One explanation for the demographic transition is the increased parental investment required to raise children who will be able to maintain the same level of resources as their parents. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "137007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=137007", "title": "Paul Kruger", "text": "Paul Kruger\n\nStephanus Johannes Paulus \"Paul\" Kruger (; ; 10 October 1825 – 14 July 1904) was one of the dominant political and military figures in 19th-century South Africa, and President of the South African Republic (or Transvaal) from 1883 to 1900. Nicknamed \"Oom Paul\" (\"Uncle Paul\"), he came to international prominence as the face of the Boer cause—that of the Transvaal and its neighbour the Orange Free State—against Britain during the Second Boer War of 1899–1902. He has been called a personification of Afrikanerdom, and remains a controversial and divisive figure; admirers venerate him as a tragic folk hero, and critics view him as the obstinate guardian of an unjust cause.\n\nBorn near the eastern edge of the Cape Colony, Kruger took part in the Great Trek as a child during the late 1830s. Kruger had almost no education apart from the Bible, and through his interpretation believed the Earth was flat. A protégé of the Voortrekker leader Andries Pretorius, he witnessed the signing of the Sand River Convention with Britain in 1852 and over the next decade played a prominent role in the forging of the South African Republic, leading its commandos and resolving disputes between the rival Boer leaders and factions. In 1863 he was elected Commandant-General, a post he held for a decade before he resigned soon after the election of President Thomas François Burgers.\n\nKruger was appointed Vice-President in March 1877, shortly before the South African Republic was annexed by Britain as the Transvaal. Over the next three years he headed two deputations to London to try to have this overturned and became the leading figure in the movement to restore the South African Republic's independence, culminating in the Boers' victory in the First Boer War of 1880–81. Kruger served until 1883 as a member of an executive triumvirate, then was elected President. In 1884 he headed a third deputation that brokered the London Convention, under which Britain recognised the South African Republic as a fully independent state.\n\nFollowing the influx of thousands of predominantly British settlers with the Witwatersrand Gold Rush of 1886, \"uitlanders\" (out-landers) provided almost all of the South African Republic's tax revenues but lacked civic representation; Boer burghers retained control of the government. The uitlander problem and the associated tensions with Britain dominated Kruger's attention for the rest of his presidency, to which he was re-elected in 1888, 1893 and 1898, and led to the Jameson Raid of 1895–96 and ultimately the Second Boer War. Kruger left for Europe as the war turned against the Boers in 1900 and spent the rest of his life in exile, refusing to return home following the British victory. After he died in Switzerland at the age of 78 in 1904, his body was returned to South Africa for a state funeral, and buried in the Heroes' Acre in Pretoria.\n\nStephanus Johannes Paulus Kruger was born on 10 October 1825 at Bulhoek, a farm in the Steynsburg area of the Cape Colony, the third child and second son of Casper Jan Hendrik Kruger (1801-1852), a farmer, and his wife Elsje (Elisa; \"née\" Steyn)(1806-1834). The family was of Dutch-speaking Afrikaner or Boer background, of German, French Huguenot and Dutch stock. His paternal ancestors had been in South Africa since 1713, when Jacob Krüger, from Berlin, arrived in Cape Town as a 17-year-old soldier in the Dutch East India Company's service. Jacob's children dropped the umlaut from the family name, a common practice among South Africans of German origin, and over the following generations Kruger's paternal forebears moved into the interior. His mother's family, the Steyns, had lived in South Africa since 1668 and were relatively affluent and cultured by Cape standards. Kruger's great-great-uncle Hermanus Steyn had been president of the self-declared Republic of Swellendam that revolted against Company rule in 1795.\n\nBulhoek, Kruger's birthplace, was the Steyn family farm and had been Elsie's home since early childhood; her father Douw Gerbrand Steyn had settled there in 1809. The Kruger and Steyn families were acquainted and Casper occasionally visited Bulhoek as a young man. He and Elsie married in Cradock in 1820, when he was 19 and she was 14. A girl, Sophia, and a boy, Douw Gerbrand, were born before Paul's arrival in 1825. The child's first two names, Stephanus Johannes, were chosen after his paternal grandfather, but rarely used—the provenance of the third name Paulus \"was to remain rather a mystery\", Johannes Meintjes wrote in his 1974 biography of Kruger, \"and yet the boy was always called Paul.\"\n\nPaul Kruger was baptised at Cradock on 19 March 1826, and soon thereafter his parents acquired a farm of their own to the north-west at Vaalbank, near Colesberg, in the remote north-east of the Cape Colony. His mother died when he was eight; Casper soon remarried and had more children with his second wife, Heiletje (\"née\" du Plessis). Beyond reading and writing, which he learned from relatives, Kruger's only education was three months under a travelling tutor, Tielman Roos, and Calvinist religious instruction from his father. In adulthood Kruger would claim to have never read any book apart from the Bible.\n\nIn 1835 Casper Kruger, his father and his brothers Gert and Theuns moved their families east and set up farms near the Caledon River, on the Cape Colony's far north-eastern frontier. The Cape had been under British sovereignty since 1814, when the Netherlands ceded it to Britain with the Convention of London. Boer discontent with aspects of British rule, such as the institution of English as the sole official language and the abolition of slavery in 1834, led to the Great Trek—a mass migration by Dutch-speaking \"Voortrekkers\" north-east from the Cape to the land over the Orange and Vaal Rivers. Many Boers had been voicing displeasure with the British Cape administration for some time, but the Krugers were comparatively content—they had always co-operated with the British, and had not owned slaves. They had given little thought to the idea of leaving the Cape.\n\nA group of emigrants under Hendrik Potgieter passed through the Krugers' Caledon encampments in early 1836. Potgieter envisioned a Boer republic with himself in a prominent role; he sufficiently impressed the Krugers that they joined his party of Voortrekkers. Kruger's father continued to give the children religious education in the Boer fashion during the trek, having them recite or write down biblical passages from memory each day after lunch and dinner. At stops along the journey classrooms were improvised from reeds and grass and the more educated emigrants took turns in teaching.\nThe Voortrekkers faced competition for the area they were entering from Mzilikazi and his Ndebele (or Matabele) people, a recent offshoot from the Zulu Kingdom to the south-east. On 16 October 1836 the 11-year-old Kruger took part in the Battle of Vegkop, where Potgieter's laager, a circle of wagons chained together, was unsuccessfully attacked by Mzilikazi and around 4,000–6,000 Matabele warriors. Kruger and the other small children assisted in tasks such as bullet-casting while the women and larger boys helped the fighting men, of whom there were about 40. Kruger could recall the battle in great detail and give a vivid account well into old age.\n\nDuring 1837 and 1838 Kruger's family was part of the Voortrekker group under Potgieter that trekked further east into Natal. Here they met the American missionary Daniel Lindley, who gave young Paul much spiritual invigoration. The Zulu King Dingane concluded a land treaty with Potgieter, but then promptly reconsidered and massacred first Piet Retief's party of settlers, then others at Weenen. Kruger would recount his family's group coming under attack from Zulus soon after the Retief massacre, describing \"children pinioned to their mothers' breasts by spears, or with their brains dashed out on waggon wheels\"—but \"God heard our prayer\", he recalled, and \"we followed them and shot them down as they fled, until more of them were dead than those of us they had killed in their attack ... I could shoot moderately well for we lived, so to speak, among the game.\"\n\nThese developments impelled the Krugers' return to the highveld, where they took part in Potgieter's campaign that compelled Mzilikazi to move his people north, across the Limpopo River, to what became Matabeleland. Kruger and his father thereupon settled at the foot of the Magaliesberg mountains in the Transvaal. In Natal Andries Pretorius defeated more than 10,000 of Dingane's Zulus at the Battle of Blood River on 16 December 1838, a date subsequently marked by the Boers as \"Dingaansdag\" (\"Dingane's Day\") or the Day of the Vow.\n\nBoer tradition of the time dictated that men were entitled to choose two farms—one for crops and one for grazing—upon becoming enfranchised burghers at the age of 16. Kruger set up his home at Waterkloof, near Rustenburg in the Magaliesberg area. This concluded, he wasted little time in pursuing the hand of Maria du Plessis, the daughter of a fellow Voortrekker south of the Vaal; she was only 14 years old when they married in Potchefstroom in 1842. The same year Kruger was elected a deputy field cornet—\"a singular honour at seventeen\", Meintjes comments. This role combined the civilian duties of a local magistrate with a military rank equivalent to that of a junior commissioned officer.\n\nKruger was already an accomplished frontiersman, horseman and guerrilla fighter. In addition to his native Dutch he could speak basic English and several African languages, some fluently. He had shot a lion for the first time when he was a boy—in old age he recalled being 14, but Meintjes suggests he may have been as young as 11. During his many hunting excursions he was nearly killed on several occasions. In 1845, while he was hunting rhinoceros along the Steelpoort River, his four-pounder elephant gun exploded in his hands and blew off most of his left thumb. Kruger wrapped the wound in a handkerchief and retreated to camp, where he treated it with turpentine. He refused calls to have the hand amputated by a doctor, and instead cut off the remains of the injured thumb himself with a pocketknife. When gangrenous marks appeared up to his shoulder, he placed the hand in the stomach of a freshly-killed goat, a traditional Boer remedy. He considered this a success—\"when it came to the turn of the second goat, my hand was already easier and the danger much less.\" The wound took more than six months to heal, but he did not wait that long to start hunting again.\nBritain annexed the Voortrekkers' short-lived Natalia Republic in 1843 as the Colony of Natal. Pretorius briefly led Boer resistance to this, but before long most of the Boers in Natal had trekked back north-west to the area around the Orange and Vaal Rivers. In 1845 Kruger was a member of Potgieter's expedition to Delagoa Bay in Mozambique to negotiate a frontier with Portugal; the Lebombo Mountains were settled upon as the border between Boer and Portuguese lands. After Maria and their first child died of fever in January 1846, Kruger married her cousin Gezina du Plessis, from the Colesberg area, in 1847. Their first child, Casper Jan Hendrik, was born on 22 December that year.\n\nConcerned by the exodus of so many whites from the Cape and Natal, and taking the view that they remained British subjects, the British Governor Sir Harry Smith in 1848 annexed the area between the Orange and Vaal rivers as the \"Orange River Sovereignty\". A Boer commando led by Pretorius against this was defeated by Smith at the Battle of Boomplaats. Pretorius also lived in the Magaliesberg mountains and often hosted the young Kruger, who greatly admired the elder man's resolve, sophistication and piety. A warm relationship developed. \"Kruger's political awareness can be dated from 1850\", Meintjes writes, \"and it was in no small measure given to him by Pretorius.\" Like Pretorius, Kruger wanted to centralise the emigrants under a single authority and win British recognition for this as an independent state. This last point was not due to hostility to Britain—neither Pretorius nor Kruger was particularly anti-British—but because they perceived the emigrants' unity as under threat if the Cape administration continued to regard them as British subjects.\n\nThe British resident in the Orange River area, Henry Douglas Warden, advised Smith in 1851 that he thought a compromise should be attempted with Pretorius. Smith sent representatives to meet him at the Sand River. Kruger, aged 26, accompanied Pretorius and on 17 January 1852 was present at the conclusion of the Sand River Convention, under which Britain recognised \"the Emigrant Farmers\" in the Transvaal—the \"Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek\" (\"South African Republic\"), they called themselves—as independent. In exchange for the Boers' pledge not to introduce slavery in the Transvaal, the British agreed not to ally with any \"coloured nations\" there. Kruger's uncle Gert was also present; his father Casper would have been as well had he not been ill.\n\nThe Boers and the local Tswana and Basotho chiefdoms were in near-constant conflict, mainly over land. Kruger was elected field cornet of his district in 1852, and in August that year he took part in the Battle of Dimawe, a raid against the Tswana chief Sechele I. The Boer commando was headed by Pretorius, but in practice he did not take much part as he was suffering from dropsy. Kruger narrowly escaped death twice—first a piece of shrapnel hit him in the head but only knocked him out, then later a Tswana bullet swiped across his chest, tearing his jacket without wounding him. The commando wrecked David Livingstone's mission station at Kolobeng, destroying his medicines and books. Livingstone was away at the time. Kruger's version of the story was that the Boers found an armoury and a workshop for repairing firearms in Livingstone's house and, interpreting this as a breach of Britain's promise at the Sand River not to arm tribal chiefs, confiscated them. Whatever the truth, Livingstone wrote about the Boers in strongly condemnatory terms thereafter, depicting them as mindless barbarians.\n\nOne charge levelled by Livingstone and many others against the Boers was that when attacking tribal settlements they abducted women and children and took them home as slaves. The Boer argument was that these were not slaves but \"inboekelings\"—indentured \"apprentices\" who, having lost their families, were given bed, board and training in a Boer household until reaching adulthood. Modern scholarship widely dismisses this as a ruse to create inexpensive labour while avoiding overt slavery. Gezina Kruger had an \"inboekeling\" maid for whom she eventually arranged marriage, paying her a dowry.\n\nHaving been promoted to the rank of lieutenant (between field cornet and commandant), Kruger formed part of a commando sent against the chief Montshiwa in December 1852 to recover some stolen cattle. Pretorius was still sick, and only nominally in command. Seven months later, on 23 July 1853, Pretorius died, aged 54. Just before the end he sent for Kruger, but the young man arrived too late. Meintjes comments that Pretorius \"was perhaps the first person to recognise that behind [Kruger's] rough exterior was a most singular person with an intellect all the more remarkable for being almost entirely self-developed.\"\n\nPretorius did not name a successor as Commandant-General; his eldest son Marthinus Wessel Pretorius was appointed in his stead. The younger Pretorius elevated Kruger to the rank of commandant. Pretorius the son claimed power over not just the Transvaal but also the Orange River area—he said the British had promised it to his father—but virtually nobody, not even supporters like Kruger, accepted this. Following Sir George Cathcart's replacement of Smith as governor in Cape Town, the British policy towards the Orange River Sovereignty changed to the extent that the British were willing to pull out and grant independence to a second Boer republic there. This was in spite of the fact that in addition to the Boer settlers there were many English-speaking colonists who wanted rule from the Cape to continue. On 23 February 1854 Sir George Russell Clerk signed the Orange River Convention, ending the sovereignty and recognising what the Boers dubbed the \"Oranje-Vrijstaat\" (\"Orange Free State\").\n\nBloemfontein, the former British garrison town, became the Free State's capital; the Transvaal seat of government became Pretoria, named after the elder Pretorius. The South African Republic was in practice split between the south-west and central Transvaal, where most of Pretorius's supporters were, and regionalist factions in the Zoutpansberg, Lydenburg and Utrecht districts that viewed any central authority with suspicion. Kruger's first campaign as a commandant was in the latter part of 1854, against the chiefs Mapela and Makapan near the Waterberg. The chiefs retreated into what became called the Caves of Makapan (\"Makapansgat\") with many of their people and cattle, and a siege ensued in which thousands of the defenders died, mainly from starvation. When Commandant-General Piet Potgieter of Zoutpansberg was shot dead, Kruger advanced under heavy fire to retrieve the body and was almost killed himself.\n\nMarthinus Pretorius hoped to achieve either federation or amalgamation with the Orange Free State, but before he could contemplate this he would have to unite the Transvaal. In 1855 he appointed an eight-man constitutional commission, including Kruger, which presented a draft constitution in September that year. Lydenburg and Zoutpansberg rejected the proposals, calling for a less centralised government. Pretorius tried again during 1856, holding meetings with eight-man commissions in Rustenburg, Potchefstroom and Pretoria, but Stephanus Schoeman, Zoutpansberg's new Commandant-General, repudiated these efforts.\n\nThe constitution settled upon formalised a national volksraad (parliament) and created an executive council, headed by a president. Pretorius was sworn in as the first president of the South African Republic on 6 January 1857. Kruger successfully proposed Schoeman for the post of national Commandant-General, hoping to thereby end the factional disputes and foster unity, but Schoeman categorically refused to serve under this constitution or Pretorius. With the Transvaal on the verge of civil war, tensions also rose with the Orange Free State after Pretorius's ambitions of absorbing it became widely known. Kruger had strong personal reservations about Pretorius, not considering him his father's equal, but nevertheless remained steadfastly loyal to him.\n\nAfter the Free State government dismissed an ultimatum from Pretorius to cease what he regarded as the marginalisation of his supporters south of the Vaal, Pretorius called up the burghers and rode to the border, prompting President Jacobus Nicolaas Boshoff of the Free State to do the same. Kruger was dismayed to learn of this and on reaching the Transvaal commando he spoke out against the idea of fighting their fellow Boers. When he learned that Boshoff had called on Schoeman to lead a commando against Pretorius from Zoutpansberg and Lydenburg, he realised that disbanding was no longer enough and that they would have to make terms.\n\nWith Pretorius's approval, Kruger met Boshoff under a white flag. Kruger made clear that he personally disapproved of Pretorius's actions and the situation as a whole, but defended his president when the Free Staters began to speak harshly of him. A commission of 12 men from each republic, including Kruger, reached a compromise whereby Pretorius would drop his claim on the Free State, and a treaty was concluded on 2 June 1857. Over the next year Kruger helped to negotiate a peace agreement between the Free State and Moshoeshoe I of the Basotho, and persuaded Schoeman to take part in successful talks regarding constitutional revisions, after which Zoutpansberg accepted the central government with Schoeman as commandant-general. On 28 June 1858 Schoeman appointed Kruger Assistant Commandant-General of the South African Republic. \"All in all\", Kruger's biographer T R H Davenport comments, \"he had shown a loyalty to authority in political disputes, devotion to duty as an officer, and a real capacity for power play.\"\n\nKruger considered Providence his guide in life and referred to scripture constantly; he knew large sections of the Bible by heart. He understood the biblical texts literally and inferred from them that the Earth was flat, a belief he retained firmly to his dying day. At mealtimes he said grace twice, at length and in formal Dutch rather than the South African dialect that was to become Afrikaans. In late 1858, when he returned to Waterkloof, he was mentally and physically drained following the exertions of the past few years and in the midst of a spiritual crisis. Hoping to establish a personal relationship with God, he ventured into the Magaliesberg and spent several days without food or water. A search party found him \"nearly dead from hunger and thirst\", Davenport records. The experience reinvigorated him and greatly intensified his faith, which for the rest of his life was unshakeable and, according to Meintjes, perceived by some of his contemporaries as like that of a child.\n\nKruger belonged to the \"Doppers\"—a group of about 6,000 that followed an extremely strict interpretation of traditional Calvinist doctrine. They based their theology almost entirely on the Old Testament and, among other things, wished to eschew hymns and organs and read only from the Psalms. When the 1859 synod of the \"Nederduits Hervormde Kerk van Afrika\" (NHK), the main church in the Transvaal, decided to enforce the singing of modern hymns, Kruger led a group of Doppers that denounced the NHK as \"deluded\" and \"false\" and left its Rustenburg congregation. They formed the \"Gereformeerde Kerke van Zuid-Afrika\" (GK), thereafter known informally as the \"Dopper Church\", and recruited the Reverend Dirk Postma, a like-minded traditionalist recently arrived from the Netherlands, to be their minister. This act also had secular ramifications as according to the 1858 constitution only NHK members could take part in public affairs.\n\nIn late 1859 Pretorius was invited to stand for president in the Orange Free State, where many burghers now favoured union, partly as a means to overcome the Basotho. The Transvaal constitution he had just enacted made it illegal to simultaneously hold office abroad, but nevertheless he readily did so and won. The Transvaal volksraad attempted to side-step the constitutional problems surrounding this by granting Pretorius half a year's leave, hoping a solution might come about during this time, and the President duly left for Bloemfontein, appointing Johannes Hermanus Grobler to be acting president in his absence. Pretorius was sworn in as president of the Free State on 8 February 1860; he sent a deputation to Pretoria to negotiate union the next day.\nKruger and others in the Transvaal government disliked Pretorius's unconstitutional dual presidency, and worried that Britain might declare the Sand River and Orange River Conventions void if the republics joined. Pretorius was told by the Transvaal volksraad on 10 September 1860 to choose between his two posts—to the surprise of both supporters and detractors he resigned as President of the Transvaal and continued in the Free State. After Schoeman unsuccessfully attempted to forcibly supplant Grobler as Acting President, Kruger persuaded him to submit to a volksraad hearing, where Schoeman was censured and relieved of his post. Willem Cornelis Janse van Rensburg was appointed Acting President while a new election was organised for October 1862. Having returned home, Kruger was surprised to receive a message urgently requesting his presence in the capital, the volksraad having recommended him as a suitable candidate; he replied that he was pleased to be summoned but his membership in the Dopper Church meant he could not enter politics. Van Rensburg promptly had legislation passed to give equal political rights to members of all Reformed denominations.\nSchoeman mustered a commando at Potchefstroom, but was routed by Kruger on the night of 9 October 1862. After Schoeman returned with a larger force Kruger and Pretorius held negotiations where it was agreed to hold a special court on the disturbances in January 1863, and soon thereafter fresh elections for president and commandant-general. Schoeman was found guilty of rebellion against the state and banished. In May the election results were announced—Van Rensburg became president, with Kruger as commandant-general. Both expressed disappointment at the low turnout and resolved to hold another set of elections. Van Rensburg's opponent this time was Pretorius, who had resigned his office in the Orange Free State and returned to the Transvaal. Turnout was higher and on 12 October the volksraad announced another Van Rensburg victory. Kruger was returned as commandant-general with a large majority. The civil war ended with Kruger's victory over Jan Viljoen's commando, raised in support of Pretorius and Schoeman, at the Crocodile River on 5 January 1864. Elections were held yet again, and this time Pretorius defeated Van Rensburg. Kruger was re-elected as commandant-general with over two-thirds of the vote.\n\nThe civil war had led to an economic collapse in the Transvaal, weakening the government's ability to back up its professed authority and sovereignty over the local chiefdoms, though Lydenburg and Utrecht did now accept the central administration. By 1865 tensions had risen with the Zulus to the east and war had broken out again between the Orange Free State and the Basotho. Pretorius and Kruger led a commando of about 1,000 men south to help the Free State. The Basotho were defeated and Moshoeshoe ceded some of his territory, but President Johannes Brand of the Free State decided not to give any of the conquered land to the Transvaal burghers. The Transvaal men were scandalised and returned home en masse, despite Kruger's attempts to maintain discipline. The following February, after a meeting of the executive council in Potchefstroom, Kruger capsized his cart during the journey home and broke his left leg. On one leg he righted the cart and continued the rest of the way. This injury incapacitated him for the next nine months, and his left leg was thereafter slightly shorter than his right.\nIn 1867, Pretoria sent Kruger to restore law and order in Zoutpansberg. He had around 500 men but very low reserves of ammunition, and discipline in the ranks was poor. On reaching Schoemansdal, which was under threat by the chief Katlakter, Kruger and his officers resolved that holding the town was impossible and ordered a general evacuation, following which Katlakter razed the town. The loss of Schoemansdal, once a prosperous settlement by Boer standards, was considered a great humiliation by many burghers. The Transvaal government formally exonerated Kruger over the matter, ruling that he had been forced to evacuate Schoemansdal by factors beyond his control, but some still argued that he had given the town up too readily. Peace returned to Zoutpansberg in 1869, following the intervention of the republic's Swazi allies.\n\nPretorius stepped down as president in November 1871. In the 1872 election Kruger's preferred candidate, William Robinson, was decisively defeated by the Reverend Thomas François Burgers, a church minister from the Cape who was noted for his eloquent preaching but controversial for some because of his liberal interpretation of the scriptures. He did not believe in the Devil, for example. Kruger publicly accepted Burgers's election, announcing at his inauguration that \"as a good republican\" he submitted to the vote of the majority, but he had grave personal reservations regarding the new president. He particularly disliked Burgers's new education law, which restricted children's religious instruction to outside school hours—in Kruger's view an affront to God. This, coupled with the sickness of Gezina and their children with malaria, caused Kruger to lose interest in his office. In May 1873 he requested an honourable discharge from his post, which Burgers promptly granted. The office of commandant-general was abolished the following week. Kruger moved his main residence to Boekenhoutfontein, near Rustenburg, and for a time absented himself from public affairs.\n\nBurgers busied himself attempting to modernise the South African Republic along European lines, hoping to set in motion a process that would lead to a united, independent South Africa. Finding Boer officialdom inadequate, he imported ministers and civil servants en masse from the Netherlands. His ascent to the presidency came shortly after the realisation that the Boer republics might stand on land of immense mineral wealth. Diamonds had been discovered in Griqua territory just north of the Orange River on the western edge of the Free State, arousing the interest of Britain and other countries; mostly British settlers, referred to by the Boers as uitlanders (\"out-landers\"), were flooding into the region. Britain began to pursue federation (at that time often referred to as \"confederation\") of the Boer republics with the Cape and Natal and in 1873, over Boer objections, annexed the area surrounding the huge diamond mine at Kimberley, dubbing it Griqualand West.\n\nSome Doppers preferred to embark on another trek, north-west across the Kalahari Desert towards Angola, rather than live under Burgers. This became the Dorsland Trek of 1874. The emigrants asked Kruger to lead the way, but he refused to take part. In September 1874, following a long delay calling the volksraad due to sickness, Burgers proposed a railway to Delagoa Bay and said he would go to Europe to raise the necessary funds. By the time he left in February 1875 opposition pressure had brought about an amendment to bring religious instruction back into school hours, and Kruger had been restored to the executive council.\n\nIn 1876 hostilities broke out with the Bapedi people under Sekhukhune. Burgers had told the Acting President Piet Joubert not to fight a war in his absence, so the Transvaal government did little to combat the Bapedi raids. On his return Burgers resolved to send a commando against Sekhukhune; he called on Kruger to lead the column, but much to his surprise the erstwhile commandant-general refused. Burgers unsuccessfully asked Joubert to head the commando, then approached Kruger twice more, but to no avail. Kruger was convinced that God would cause any military expedition organised by Burgers to fail—particularly if the President rode with the commando, which he was determined to do. \"I cannot lead the commando if you come\", Kruger said, \"for, with your merry evenings in laager and your Sunday dances, the enemy will even shoot me behind the wall; for God's blessing will not rest on your expedition.\" Burgers, who had no military experience, led the commando himself after several other prospective generals rebuffed him. After being routed by Sekhukhune, he hired a group of \"volunteers\" under the German Conrad von Schlickmann to defend the country, paying for this by levying a special tax. The war ended, but Burgers became extremely unpopular among his electorate.\n\nWith Burgers due to stand for re-election the following year, Kruger became a popular alternative candidate, but he resolved to stand by the President after Burgers privately assured him that he would do his utmost to defend the South African Republic's independence. The towns of the Transvaal were becoming increasingly British in character as immigration and trade gathered apace, and the idea of annexation was gaining support both locally and in the British government. In late 1876 Lord Carnarvon, Colonial Secretary under Benjamin Disraeli, gave Sir Theophilus Shepstone of Natal a special commission to confer with the South African Republic's government and, if he saw fit, annex the country.\n\nShepstone arrived in Pretoria in January 1877. He outlined criticisms expressed by Carnarvon regarding the Transvaal government and expressed support for federation. After a joint commission of inquiry on the British grievances—Kruger and the State Attorney E J P Jorissen refuted most of Carnarvon's allegations, one of which was that Pretoria tolerated slavery—Shepstone stayed in the capital, openly telling Burgers he had come to the Transvaal to annex it. Hoping to stop the annexation by reforming the government, Burgers introduced scores of bills and revisions to a bewildered volksraad, which opposed them all but then passed them, heightening the general mood of discord and confusion. One of these reforms appointed Kruger to the new post of vice-president.\n\nThe impression of Kruger garnered by the British envoys in Pretoria during early 1877 was one of an unspeakably vulgar, bigoted backveld peasant. Regarding his austere, weather-beaten face, greying hair and simple Dopper dress of a short-cut black jacket, baggy trousers and a black top hat, they considered him extremely ugly. Furthermore, they found his personal habits, such as copious spitting, revolting. Shepstone's legal adviser William Morcom was one of the first British officials to write about Kruger: calling him \"gigantically horrible\", he recounted a public luncheon at which Kruger dined with a dirty pipe protruding from his pocket and such greasy hair that he spent part of the meal combing it. According to Martin Meredith, Kruger's unsightliness was mentioned in British reports \"so often that it became shorthand for his whole personality, and indeed, his objectives\". They did not consider him a major threat to British ambitions.\nShepstone had the Transvaal's annexation as a British territory formally announced in Pretoria on 11 April 1877. Burgers resigned and returned to the Cape to live in retirement—his last act as president was to announce the government's decision to send a deputation, headed by Kruger and Jorissen, to London to make an official protest. He exhorted the burghers not to attempt any kind of resistance to the British until these diplomats returned. Jorissen, one of the Dutch officials recently imported by Burgers, was included at Kruger's request because of his wide knowledge of European languages (Kruger was not confident in his English); a second Dutchman, Willem Eduard Bok, accompanied them as secretary. They left in May 1877, travelling first to Bloemfontein to confer with the Free State government, then on to Kimberley and Worcester, where the 51-year-old Kruger boarded a train for the first time in his life. In Cape Town, where his German ancestor had landed 164 years before, he had his first sight of the sea.\n\nDuring the voyage to England Kruger encountered a 19-year-old law student from the Orange Free State named Martinus Theunis Steyn. Jorissen and Bok marvelled at Kruger, in their eyes more suited to the 17th century than his own time. One night, when Kruger heard the two Dutchmen discussing celestial bodies and the structure of the universe, he interjected that if their conversation was accurate and the Earth was not flat, he might as well throw his Bible overboard. At the Colonial Office in Whitehall, Carnarvon and Kruger's own colleagues were astonished when, speaking through interpreters, he rose to what Meintjes calls \"remarkable heights of oratory\", averring that the annexation breached the Sand River Convention and went against the popular will in the Transvaal. His arguments were undermined by reports to the contrary from Shepstone and other British officials, and by a widely publicised letter from a Potchefstroom vicar claiming that Kruger only represented the will of \"a handful of irreconcilables\". Carnarvon dismissed Kruger's idea of a general plebiscite and concluded that British rule would remain.\n\nKruger did not meet Queen Victoria, though such an audience is described in numerous anecdotes, depicted in films and sometimes reported as fact. Between August and October he visited the Netherlands and Germany, where he aroused little general public interest, but made a potent impact in the Reformed congregations he visited. After a brief sojourn back in England he returned to South Africa and arrived at Boekenhoutfontein shortly before Christmas 1877. He found a national awakening occurring. \"Paradoxically\", John Laband writes, \"British occupation seemed to be fomenting a sense of national consciousness in the Transvaal which years of fractious independence had failed to elicit.\" When Kruger visited Pretoria in January 1878 he was greeted by a procession that took him to a mass gathering in Church Square. Attempting to stir up the crowd, Kruger said that since Carnarvon had told him the annexation would not be revoked he could not see what more they could do. The gambit worked; burghers began shouting that they would sooner die fighting for their country than submit to the British.\nAccording to Meintjes, Kruger was still not particularly anti-British; he thought the British had made a mistake and would rectify the situation if this could be proven to them. After conducting a poll through the former republican infrastructure—587 signed in favour of the annexation, 6,591 against—he organised a second deputation to London, made up of himself and Joubert with Bok again serving as secretary. The envoys met the British High Commissioner in Cape Town, Sir Bartle Frere, and arrived in London on 29 June 1878 to find a censorious letter from Shepstone waiting for them, along with a communication that since Kruger was agitating against the government he had been dismissed from the executive council.\n\nCarnarvon had been succeeded as colonial secretary by Sir Michael Hicks Beach, who received the deputation coldly. After Bok gave a lengthy opening declaration, Hicks Beach muttered: \"Have you ever heard of an instance where the British Lion has ever given up anything on which he had set his paw?\" Kruger retorted: \"Yes. The Orange Free State.\" The deputation remained in London for some weeks thereafter, communicating by correspondence with Hicks Beach, who eventually reaffirmed Carnarvon's decision that the annexation would not be revoked. The deputation attempted to rally support for their cause, as the first mission had done, but with the Eastern Question dominating the political scene few were interested. One English sympathiser gave Kruger a gold ring, bearing the inscription: \"Take courage, your cause is just and must triumph in the end.\" Kruger was touched and wore it for the rest of his life.\n\nLike its predecessor, the second deputation went on from England to continental Europe, visiting the Netherlands, France and Germany. In Paris, where the 1878 \"Exposition Universelle\" was in progress, Kruger saw a hot air balloon for the first time and readily took part in an ascent to view the city from above. \"High up in mid-air\", he recalled, \"I jestingly asked the aeronaut, as we had gone so far, to take me all the way home.\" The pilot asked who Kruger was and, on their descent, gave him a medal \"to remind me of my journey through the air\". The deputation composed a long reply to Hicks Beach, which was published as an open letter in the British press soon before they sailed for home on 24 October 1878. Unless the annexation were revoked, the letter stated, the Transvaal Boers would not co-operate regarding federation.\n\nKruger and Joubert returned home to find the British and the Zulus were close to war. Shepstone had supported the Zulus in a border dispute with the South African Republic, but then, after annexing the Transvaal, changed his mind and endorsed the Boer claim. Meeting Sir Bartle Frere and Lord Chelmsford at Pietermaritzburg on 28 November 1878, Kruger happily gave tactical guidance for the British campaign—he advised the use of Boer tactics, making laagers at every stop and constantly scouting ahead—but refused Frere's request that he accompany one of the British columns, saying he would only help if assurances were made regarding the Transvaal. Chelmsford thought the campaign would be a \"promenade\" and did not take Kruger's advice. Soon after he entered Zululand in January 1879, starting the Anglo-Zulu War, his unlaagered central column was surprised by Cetshwayo's Zulus at Isandlwana and almost totally destroyed.\nThe war in Zululand effectively ended on 4 July 1879 with Chelmsford's decisive victory at the Zulu capital Ulundi. Around the same time the British appointed a new Governor and High Commissioner for the Transvaal and Natal, Sir Garnet Wolseley, who introduced a new Transvaal constitution giving the Boers a limited degree of self-government. Wolseley blunted the Zulu military threat by splitting the kingdom into 13 chiefdoms, and crushed Sekhukhune and the Bapedi during late 1879. He had little success in winning the Boers over to the idea of federation; his defeat of the Zulus and the Bapedi had the opposite effect, as with these two long-standing threats to security removed the Transvaalers could focus all their efforts against the British. Most Boers refused to co-operate with Wolseley's new order; Kruger declined a seat in the new executive council.\n\nAt Wonderfontein on 15 December 1879, 6,000 burghers, many of them bearing the republic's \"vierkleur\" (\"four-colour\") flag, voted to pursue a restored, independent republic. Pretorius and Bok were imprisoned on charges of high treason when they took this news to Wolseley and Sir Owen Lanyon (who had replaced Shepstone), prompting many burghers to consider rising up there and then—Kruger persuaded them not to, saying this was premature. Pretorius and Bok were swiftly released after Jorissen telegraphed the British Liberal politician William Ewart Gladstone, who had met Kruger's first deputation in London and had since condemned the annexation as unjust during his Midlothian campaign.\n\nIn early 1880 Hicks Beach forwarded a scheme for South African federation to the Cape Parliament. Kruger travelled to the Cape to agitate against the proposals alongside Joubert and Jorissen; by the time they arrived the Liberals had won an election victory in Britain and Gladstone was prime minister. In Cape Town, Paarl and elsewhere Kruger lobbied vigorously against the annexation and won much sympathy. Davenport suggests that this contributed to the federation plan's withdrawal, which in turn weakened the British resolve to keep the Transvaal. Kruger and Joubert wrote to Gladstone asking him to restore the South African Republic's independence, but to their astonishment the prime minister replied in June 1880 that he feared withdrawing from the Transvaal might lead to chaos across South Africa. Kruger concluded that they had done all they could to try to regain independence peacefully, and over the following months the Transvaal burghers prepared for rebellion. Wolseley was replaced as governor and high commissioner by Sir George Pomeroy Colley.\nIn the last months of 1880, Lanyon began to pursue tax payments from burghers who were in arrears. Piet Cronjé, a farmer in the Potchefstroom district, gave his local landdrost a written statement that the burghers would pay taxes to their \"legal government\"—that of the South African Republic—but not to the British \"usurper\" administration. Kruger and Cronjé knew each other; the writer Johan Frederik van Oordt, who was acquainted with them both, suggested that Kruger may have had a hand in this and what followed. In November, when the British authorities in Potchefstroom were about to auction off a burgher's wagon that had been seized amid a tax dispute, Cronjé and a group of armed Boers intervened, overcame the presiding officers and reclaimed the wagon. On hearing of this from Cronjé, Kruger told Joubert: \"I can no longer restrain the people, and the English government is entirely responsible for the present state of things.\"\n\nStarting on 8 December 1880 at Paardekraal, a farm to the south-west of Pretoria, 10,000 Boers congregated—the largest recorded meeting of white people in South Africa up to that time. \"I stand here before you\", Kruger declared, \"called by the people. In the voice of the people I have heard the voice of God, the King of Nations, and I obey!\" He announced the fulfilment of the decision taken at Wonderfontein the previous year to restore the South African Republic government and volksraad, which as the vice-president of the last independent administration he considered his responsibility. To help him in this he turned to Jorissen and Bok, who respectively became State Attorney and State Secretary, and Pretorius and Joubert, who the reconstituted volksraad elected to an executive triumvirate along with Kruger. The assembly approved a proclamation announcing the restoration of the South African Republic.\n\nAt Kruger's suggestion Joubert was elected Commandant-General of the restored republic, though he had little military experience and protested he was not suited to the position. The provisional government set up a temporary capital at Heidelberg, a strategically placed town on the main road from Natal, and sent a copy of the proclamation to Lanyon along with a written demand that he surrender the government offices in Pretoria. Lanyon refused and mobilised the British garrison.\n\nKruger took part in the First Boer War in a civilian capacity only, playing a diplomatic and political role with the aid of Jorissen and Bok. The first major clash, a successful Boer ambush, took place on 20 December 1880 at Bronkhorstspruit. By the turn of the year the Transvaalers had all six British garrison outposts, including that in Pretoria, under siege. Colley assembled a field force in Natal, summoned reinforcements from India, and advanced towards the Transvaal. Joubert moved about 2,000 Boers south to the Drakensberg and repulsed Colley at Laing's Nek on 28 January 1881. After Colley retreated to Schuinshoogte, near Ingogo, he was attacked by Joubert's second-in-command Nicolaas Smit on 8 February and again defeated.\n\nUnderstanding that they could not hold out against the might of the British Empire indefinitely, Kruger hoped for a solution at the earliest opportunity. The triumvirate wrote to Colley on 12 February that they were prepared to submit to a royal commission. Colley liaised by telegraph with Gladstone's Colonial Secretary Lord Kimberley, then wrote to Kruger on 21 February that if the Boers stopped fighting he would cease hostilities and send commissioners for talks. Kruger received this letter on 28 February and readily accepted, but by now it was too late. Colley had been killed at the Battle of Majuba Hill the day before, another decisive victory for the Boers under Smit. This progressive humiliation of the Imperial forces in South Africa by a ragtag collection of farmers, to paraphrase Meintjes and the historian Ian Castle, stunned the Western world.\n\nColley's death horrified Kruger, who feared it might jeopardise the peace process. His reply to Colley's letter was delivered to his successor Sir Evelyn Wood on 7 March 1881, a day after Wood and Joubert had agreed to an eight-day truce. Kruger was outraged to learn of this armistice, which in his view only gave the British opportunity to strengthen their forces—he expected a British attempt to avenge Majuba, which indeed Wood and others wanted—but Gladstone wanted peace, and Wood was instructed to proceed with talks. Negotiations began on 16 March. The British offered amnesty for the Boer leaders, retrocession of the Transvaal under British suzerainty, a British resident in Pretoria and British control over foreign affairs. Kruger pressed on how the British intended to withdraw and what exactly \"suzerainty\" meant. Brand arrived to mediate on 20 March and the following day agreement was reached; the British committed to formally restore the republic within six months. The final treaty was concluded on 23 March 1881.\n\nKruger presented the treaty to the volksraad on the triumvirate's behalf at Heidelberg on 15 April 1881. \"With a feeling of gratitude to the God of our fathers\", he said, \"who has been near us in battle and danger, it is to me an unspeakable privilege to lay before you the treaty ... I consider it my duty plainly to declare before you and the whole world, that our respect for Her Majesty the Queen of England, for the government of Her Majesty, and for the English Nation, has never been greater than at this time, when we are enabled to show you a proof of England's noble and magnanimous love for right and justice.\" This statement was to be ignored by many writers, but Manfred Nathan, one of Kruger's biographers, stresses it as one of his \"most notable utterances\". Kruger reaffirmed his faith in the royal commission of Wood, Sir Hercules Robinson and the Cape's Chief Justice Sir Henry de Villiers, who convened for the first time in Natal on 30 April, Brand with them as an adviser. The commissioners held numerous sessions in Pretoria over the following months with little input from Kruger, who was bedridden with pneumonia.\n\nKruger was largely happy with the terms under which the republic would regain its sovereignty, but two points offended him. The first of these was that the British would recognise them as the \"Transvaal Republic\" and not the South African Republic; the second was that it was still not clear to him what British \"suzerainty\" was. The commission, in which De Villiers emerged as the dominant figure, defined it primarily as British purview over the Transvaal's external affairs. The final Pretoria Convention was signed on 3 August 1881 by Joubert, Pretorius and the members of the royal commission. Kruger was absent due to his illness, but he did attend the official retrocession five days later in Church Square. Kruger felt well enough to give only a short speech, after which Pretorius addressed the crowd and the \"vierkleur\" was raised.\nBy now aged nearly 56, Kruger resolved that he could no longer travel constantly between Boekenhoutfontein and the capital, and in August 1881 he and Gezina moved to Church Street, Pretoria, from where he could easily walk to the government offices on Church Square. Also around this time he shaved off his moustache and most of his facial hair, leaving the chinstrap beard he kept thereafter. His and Gezina's permanent home on Church Street, what is now called Kruger House, would be completed in 1884.\n\nA direct consequence of the end of British rule was an economic slump; the Transvaal government almost immediately found itself again on the verge of bankruptcy. The triumvirate spent two months discussing the terms of the Pretoria Convention with the new volksraad—approve it or go back to Laing's Nek, said Kruger—before it was finally ratified on 25 October 1881. During this time Kruger introduced tax reforms, announced the triumvirate's decision to grant industrial monopolies to raise money and appointed the Reverend S J du Toit to be Superintendent of Education. To counteract the influx of uitlanders, the residency qualification to vote was raised from a year to five years. In July 1882 the volksraad decided to elect a new president the following year; Joubert and Kruger emerged as candidates. Kruger campaigned on the idea of an administration in which \"God's Word would be my rule of conduct\"—as premier he would prioritise agriculture, industry and education, revive Burgers's Delagoa Bay railway scheme, introduce an immigration policy that would \"prevent the Boer nationality from being stifled\", and pursue a cordial stance towards Britain and \"obedient native races in their appointed districts\". He defeated Joubert by 3,431 votes to 1,171, and was inaugurated as president on 9 May 1883.\n\nKruger became president soon after the discovery of gold near what was to become Barberton, which prompted a fresh influx of uitlander diggers. \"This gold is still going to soak our country in blood\", said Joubert—a prediction he would repeat many times over the coming years. Joubert remained commandant-general under Kruger and also became vice-president. A convoluted situation developed on the Transvaal's western frontier, where burghers had crossed the border defined in the Pretoria Convention and formed two new Boer republics, Stellaland and Goshen, on former Tswana territory in 1882. These states were tiny but they occupied land of potentially huge importance—the main road from the Cape to Matabeleland and the African interior.\n\nKruger and the volksraad resolved to send yet another deputation to London to renegotiate the Pretoria Convention and settle the western border issue. The third deputation, comprising Kruger, Smit and Du Toit with Jan Eloff as secretary, left the Transvaal in August 1883 and sailed from Cape Town two months later. Kruger spent part of the voyage to Britain studying the English language with a Bible printed in Dutch and English side by side. Talks with the new Colonial Secretary Lord Derby and Robinson progressed smoothly—apart from an incident when Kruger, thinking himself insulted, nearly punched Robinson—and on 27 February 1884 the London Convention, superseding that of Pretoria, was concluded. Britain ended its suzerainty, reduced the Transvaal's national debt and once again recognised the country as the South African Republic. The western border question remained unresolved, but Kruger still considered the convention a triumph.\nThe deputation went on from London to mainland Europe, where according to Meintjes their reception \"was beyond all expectations ... one banquet followed the other, the stand of a handful of Boers against the British Empire having caused a sensation\". During a grand tour Kruger met William III of the Netherlands and his son the Prince of Orange, Leopold II of Belgium, President Jules Grévy of France, Alfonso XII of Spain, Luís I of Portugal, and in Germany Kaiser Wilhelm I and his Chancellor Otto von Bismarck. His public appearances were attended by tens of thousands. The deputation discussed the bilateral aspects of the proposed Delagoa Bay railway with the Portuguese, and in the Netherlands laid the groundwork for the Netherlands-South African Railway Company, which would build and operate it. Kruger now held that Burgers had been \"far ahead of his time\"—while reviving his predecessor's railway scheme, he also brought back the policy of importing officials from the Netherlands, in his view a means to strengthen the Boer identity and keep the Transvaal \"Dutch\". Willem Johannes Leyds, a 24-year-old Dutchman, returned to South Africa with the deputation as the republic's new State Attorney.\n\nBy late 1884 the Scramble for Africa was well underway. Competition on the western frontier rose after Germany annexed South-West Africa; at the behest of the mining magnate and Cape MP Cecil Rhodes, Britain proclaimed a protectorate over Bechuanaland, including the Stellaland–Goshen corridor. While Joubert was in negotiations with Rhodes, Du Toit had Kruger proclaim Transvaal protection over the corridor on 18 September 1884. Joubert was outraged, as was Kruger when on 3 October Du Toit unilaterally hoisted the \"vierkleur\" in Goshen. Realising the implications of this—it clearly violated the London Convention—Kruger had the flag stricken immediately and retracted his proclamation of 18 September. Meeting Rhodes personally in late January 1885, Kruger insisted the \"flag incident\" had taken place without his consent and conceded the corridor to the British.\n\nIn July 1886 an Australian prospector reported to the Transvaal government his discovery of an unprecedented gold reef between Pretoria and Heidelberg. The South African Republic's formal proclamation of this two months later prompted the Witwatersrand Gold Rush and the founding of Johannesburg, which within a few years was the largest city in southern Africa, populated almost entirely by uitlanders. The economic landscape of the region was transformed overnight—the South African Republic went from the verge of bankruptcy in 1886 to a fiscal output equal to the Cape Colony's the following year. The British became anxious to link Johannesburg to the Cape and Natal by rail, but Kruger thought this might have undesirable geopolitical and economic implications if done prematurely and gave the Delagoa Bay line first priority.\n\nThe President was by this time widely nicknamed \"Oom Paul\" (\"Uncle Paul\"), both among the Boers and the uitlanders, who variously used it out of affection or contempt. He was perceived by some as a despot after he compromised the independence of the republic's judiciary to help his friend Alois Hugo Nellmapius, who had been found guilty of embezzlement—Kruger rejected the court's judgement and granted Nellmapius a full pardon, an act Nathan calls \"completely indefensible\". Kruger defeated Joubert again in the 1888 election, by 4,483 votes to 834, and was sworn in for a second time in May. Nicolaas Smit was elected vice-president, and Leyds was promoted to state secretary.\nMuch of Kruger's efforts over the next year were dedicated to attempts to acquire a sea outlet for the South African Republic. In July Pieter Grobler, who had just negotiated a treaty with King Lobengula of Matabeleland, was killed by Ngwato warriors on his way home; Kruger alleged that this was the work of \"Cecil Rhodes and his clique\". Kruger despised Rhodes, considering him corrupt and immoral—in his memoirs he called him \"capital incarnate\" and \"the curse of South Africa\". According to the editor of Kruger's memoirs, Rhodes attempted to win him as an ally by suggesting \"we simply take\" Delagoa Bay from Portugal; Kruger was appalled. Failing to make headway in talks with the Portuguese, Kruger switched his attention to Kosi Bay, next to Swaziland, in late 1888.\n\nIn early 1889 Kruger and the new Orange Free State President Francis William Reitz enacted a common-defence pact and a customs treaty waiving most import duties. The same year the volksraad passed constitutional revisions to remove the \"Nederduits Hervormde Kerk\"'s official status, open the legislature to members of other denominations and make all churches \"sovereign in their own spheres\". Kruger proposed to end the lack of higher education in the Boer republics by forming a university in Pretoria; enthusiastic support emerged for this but the Free University of Amsterdam expressed strong opposition, not wishing to lose the Afrikaner element of its student body. No university was built.\n\nKruger was obsessed with the South African Republic's independence, the retention of which he perceived as under threat if the Transvaal became too British in character. The uitlanders created an acute predicament in his mind. Taxation on their mining provided almost all of the republic's revenues, but they had very limited civic representation and almost no say in the running of the country. Though the English language was dominant in the mining areas, only Dutch remained official. Kruger expressed great satisfaction at the new arrivals' industry and respect for the state's laws, but surmised that giving them full burgher rights might cause the Boers to be swamped by sheer weight in numbers, with the probable result of absorption into the British sphere. Agonising over how he \"could meet the wishes of the new population for representation, without injuring the republic or prejudicing the interests of the older burghers\", he thought he had solved the problem in 1889 when he tabled a \"second volksraad\" in which the uitlanders would have certain matters devolved to them. Most deemed this inadequate, and even Kruger's own supporters were unenthusiastic.\n\nRhodes and other British figures often contended that there were more uitlanders in the Transvaal than Boers. Kruger's administration recorded twice as many Transvaalers as uitlanders, but acknowledged that there were more uitlanders than enfranchised burghers. According to the British Liberal politician James Bryce, most uitlanders saw the country as \"virtually English\" and perceived \"something unreasonable or even grotesque in the control of a small body of persons whom they deemed in every way their inferiors.\" On 4 March 1890, when Kruger visited Johannesburg, men sang British patriotic songs, tore down and trampled on the \"vierkleur\" at the city landdrost's office, and rioted outside the house where the President was staying. One of the agitators accused him of treating the uitlanders with contempt; Kruger retorted: \"I have no contempt for the new population, only for people like yourself.\" The riot was broken up by police and the Chamber of Mines issued an apology, which Kruger accepted, saying only a few of the uitlanders had taken part. Few Boers were as conciliatory as Kruger; Meintjes marks this as \"the point where the rift between the Transvaalers and the uitlanders began.\"\n\nIn mid-March 1890 Kruger met the new British High Commissioner and Governor Sir Henry Brougham Loch, Loch's legal adviser William Philip Schreiner, and Rhodes, who had by now attained a dominant position in the Transvaal's mining industry and a royal charter for his British South Africa Company to occupy and administer Matabeleland and Mashonaland. A group of Transvaalers planned to emigrate to Mashonaland—the so-called Bowler Trek—and Rhodes was keen to stop this lest it interfere with his own plans. He and Loch offered to support Kruger in his plan to acquire a port at Kosi Bay and link it to the Transvaal through Swaziland if in return the Transvaal would enter a South African customs union and pledge not to expand northwards. Kruger made no commitments, thinking this union might easily turn into the federation Britain had pursued years before, but on his return to Pretoria forbade any Boer trek to Mashonaland.\n\nRhodes became prime minister of the Cape Colony in July 1890. A month later the British and Transvaalers agreed to joint control over Swaziland (without consulting the Swazis)—the South African Republic could build a railway through it to Kosi Bay on the condition that the Transvaal thereafter supported the interests of Rhodes's Chartered Company in Matabeleland and its environs. Kruger honoured the latter commitment in 1891 when he outlawed the Adendorff Trek, another would-be emigration to Mashonaland, over the protests of Joubert and many others. This, along with his handling of the economy and the civil service—now widely perceived as overloaded with Dutch imports—caused opposition to grow. The industrial monopolies Kruger's administration granted became widely derided as corrupt and inefficient, especially the dynamite concession given to Edouard Lippert and a French consortium, which Kruger was forced to revoke in 1892 amid much scandal over misrepresentation and price gouging.\n\nKruger's second volksraad sat for the first time in 1891. Any resolution it passed had to be ratified by the first volksraad; its role was in effect largely advisory. Uitlanders could vote in elections for the second volksraad after two years' residency on the condition they were naturalised as burghers—a process requiring the renunciation of any foreign allegiance. The residency qualification for naturalised burghers to join the first volksraad electorate was raised from five to 14 years, with the added criterion that they had to be at least 40 years old. During the close-run campaign for the 1893 election, in which Kruger was again challenged by Joubert with the Chief Justice John Gilbert Kotzé as a third candidate, the President indicated that he was prepared to lower the 14-year residency requirement so long as it would not risk the subversion of the state's independence. The electoral result was announced as 7,854 votes for Kruger, 7,009 for Joubert, and 81 for Kotzé. Joubert's supporters alleged procedural irregularities and demanded a recount; the ballots were counted twice more and although the results varied slightly each time, every count gave Kruger a majority. Joubert conceded and Kruger was inaugurated for the third time on 12 May 1893.\nKruger was by this time widely perceived as a personification of Afrikanerdom both at home and abroad. When he stopped going to the government offices at the Raadsaal by foot and began to be conveyed there by a presidential carriage, his coming and going became a public spectacle not unlike the Changing of the Guard in Britain. \"Once seen, he is not easily forgotten\", wrote Lady Phillips. \"His greasy frock coat and antiquated tall hat have been portrayed times without number ... and I think his character is clearly to be read in his face—strength of character and cunning.\"\n\nBy 1894 the Kosi Bay scheme had been abandoned and the Delagoa Bay line was almost complete, and the railways from Natal and the Cape had reached Johannesburg. Chief Malaboch's insurgency in the north compelled Joubert to call up a commando and the State Artillery in May 1894. Those drafted included British subjects, the large majority of whom indignantly refused to report, feeling that as foreigners they should be exempted. Kotzé's ruling that British nationality did not preclude one from conscription as a Transvaal resident prompted an outpouring of displeasure from the uitlanders that manifested itself when Loch visited Pretoria the following month. Protesters waited for Kruger and Loch to enter the presidential coach at the railway station, then unharnessed the horses, attached a Union Jack and raucously dragged the carriage to Loch's hotel. Embarrassed, Loch complied with Kruger's request that he should not go on to Johannesburg. Kruger announced that \"the government will, in the meantime, provisionally, no more commandeer British subjects for personal military service\". In his memoirs, he alleged that Loch secretly conferred with the uitlanders' National Union at this time about how long the miners could hold Johannesburg by arms without British help.\nThe following year the National Union sent Kruger a petition bearing 38,500 signatures requesting electoral reform. Kruger dismissed all such entreaties with the assertion that enfranchising \"these new-comers, these disobedient persons\" might imperil the republic's independence. \"Protest!\" he shouted at one uitlander deputation; \"What is the use of protesting? I have the guns, you haven't.\" The Johannesburg press became intensely hostile to the President personally, using the term \"Krugerism\" to encapsulate all the republic's perceived injustices. In August 1895, after gauging burghers' views from across the country, the first volksraad rejected the opposition's bill to give all uitlanders the vote by 14 ballots to 10. Kruger said this did not extend to those who had \"proved their trustworthiness\", and conferred burgher rights on all uitlanders who had served in Transvaal commandos.\n\nThe Delagoa Bay railway line was completed in December 1894—the realisation of a great personal ambition for Kruger, who tightened the final bolt of \"our national railway\" personally. The formal opening in July 1895 was a gala affair with leading figures from all the neighbouring territories present, including Loch's successor Sir Hercules Robinson. \"This railway changed the whole internal situation in the Transvaal\", Kruger wrote in his autobiography. \"Until that time, the Cape railway had enjoyed a monopoly, so to speak, of the Johannesburg traffic.\" Difference of opinion between Kruger and Rhodes over the distribution of the profits from customs duties led to the Drifts Crisis of September–October 1895: the Cape Colony avoided the Transvaal railway fees by using wagons instead. Kruger's closure of the drifts (fords) in the Vaal River where the wagons crossed prompted Rhodes to call for support from Britain on the grounds that the London Convention was being breached. The Colonial Secretary Joseph Chamberlain told Kruger if he did not reopen the drifts Britain would do so by force; Kruger backed down.\nUnderstanding that renewed hostilities with Britain were now a real possibility, Kruger began to pursue armament. Relations with Germany had been warming for some time; when Leyds went there for medical treatment in late 1895, he took with him an order from the Transvaal government for rifles and munitions. Conferring with the Colonial Office, Rhodes pondered the co-ordination of an uitlander revolt in Johannesburg with British military intervention, and had a force of about 500 marshalled on the Bechuanaland–Transvaal frontier under Leander Starr Jameson, the Chartered Company's administrator in Matabeleland. On 29 December 1895, ostensibly following an urgent plea from the Johannesburg Reform Committee (as the National Union now called itself), these troops crossed the border and rode for the Witwatersrand—the Jameson Raid had begun.\n\nJameson's force failed to cut all of the telegraph wires, allowing a rural Transvaal official to raise the alarm early, though there are suggestions Kruger had been tipped off some days before. Joubert called up the burghers and rode west to meet Jameson. Robinson publicly repudiated Jameson's actions and ordered him back, but Jameson ignored him and pushed on towards Johannesburg; Robinson wired Kruger offering to come immediately for talks. The Reform Committee's efforts to rally the uitlanders for revolt floundered, partly because not all of the mine-owners (or \"Randlords\") were supportive, and by 31 December the conspirators had raised a makeshift \"vierkleur\" over their headquarters at the offices of Rhodes's Gold Fields company, signalling their capitulation. Unaware of this, Jameson continued until he was forced to surrender to Piet Cronjé on 2 January 1896.\n\nA congratulatory telegram to Kruger from Kaiser Wilhelm II on 3 January prompted a storm of anti-Boer and anti-German feeling in Britain, with Jameson becoming lionised as a result. Kruger shouted down talk of the death penalty for the imprisoned Jameson or a campaign of retribution against Johannesburg, challenging his more bellicose commandants to depose him if they disagreed, and accepted Robinson's proposed mediation with alacrity. After confiscating the weapons and munitions the Reform Committee had stockpiled, Kruger handed Jameson and his troops over to British custody and granted amnesty to all the Johannesburg conspirators except for 64 leading members, who were charged with high treason. The four main leaders—Lionel Phillips, John Hays Hammond, George Farrar and Frank Rhodes (brother of Cecil)—pleaded guilty in April 1896 and were sentenced to hang, but Kruger quickly had this commuted to fines of £25,000 each.\n\nThe Jameson Raid ruined Rhodes's political reputation in the Cape and lost him his longstanding support from the Afrikaner Bond; he resigned as prime minister of the Cape Colony on 12 January. Kruger's handling of the affair made his name a household word across the world and won him much support from Afrikaners in the Cape and the Orange Free State, who began to visit Pretoria in large numbers. The President granted personal audiences to travellers and writers such as Olive Schreiner and Frank Harris, and wore the knightly orders of the Netherlands, Portugal, Belgium and France on his sash of state. Jameson was jailed by the British but released after four months. The republic made armament one of its main priorities, ordering huge quantities of rifles, munitions, field guns and howitzers, primarily from Germany and France.\nIn March 1896 Marthinus Theunis Steyn, the young lawyer Kruger had encountered on the ship to England two decades earlier, became President of the Orange Free State. They quickly won each other's confidence; each man's memoirs would describe the other in glowing terms. Chamberlain began to take exception to the South African Republic's diplomatic actions, such as joining the Geneva Convention, which he said breached Article IV of the London Convention (which forbade extraterritorial dealings except \"vis-a-vis\" the Orange Free State). Chamberlain asserted that the Transvaal was still under British suzerainty, a claim Kruger called \"nonsensical\". Kruger and Steyn concluded a treaty of trade and friendship in Bloemfontein in March 1897, along with a fresh military alliance binding each republic to defend the other's independence. Two months later Sir Alfred Milner became the new high commissioner and governor in Cape Town.\n\nKruger developed a habit of threatening to resign whenever the volksraad did not give him his way. In the 1897 session there was much surprise when the new member Louis Botha reacted to the usual proffered resignation by leaping up and moving to accept it. A constitutional crisis developed after the judiciary under Chief Justice Kotzé abandoned its prior stance of giving volksraad resolutions legal precedence over the constitution. \"This decision would have upset the whole country\", Kruger recalled, \"for a number of rules concerning the goldfields, the franchise and so on depended on resolutions of the volksraad.\" Chief Justice De Villiers of the Cape mediated, sided with Kruger and upheld the volksraad decrees.\nKruger was never more popular domestically than during the 1897–98 election campaign, and indeed was widely perceived to be jollier than he had been in years. He won his most decisive election victory yet—12,853 votes to Joubert's 2,001 and Schalk Willem Burger's 3,753—and was sworn in as president for the fourth time on 12 May 1898. After a three-hour inauguration address, his longest speech as president, his first act of his fourth term was to sack Kotzé, who was still claiming the right to test legislation in the courts. To Kruger's critics this lent much credence to the notion that he was a tyrant. Milner called Kotzé's dismissal \"the end of real justice in the Transvaal\" and a step that \"threatened all British subjects and interests there\".\n\nKruger's final administration was, Meintjes suggests, the strongest in the history of the republic. He had the former Free State President F W Reitz as State Secretary from June 1898 and Leyds, who set up an office in Brussels, as Envoy Extraordinary in Europe. The post of State Attorney was given to a young lawyer from the Cape called Jan Smuts, for whom Kruger presaged great things. The removal of Leyds to Europe marked the end of Kruger's longstanding policy of giving important government posts to Dutchmen; convinced of Cape Afrikaners' sympathy following the Jameson Raid, he preferred them from this point on.\n\nAnglo-German relations warmed during late 1898, with Berlin disavowing any interest in the Transvaal; this opened the way for Milner and Chamberlain to take a firmer line against Kruger. The so-called \"Edgar case\" of early 1899, in which a South African Republic Policeman was acquitted of manslaughter after shooting a British subject dead during an attempted arrest, prompted outcry from the British element in the Transvaal and is highlighted by Nathan as \"the starting point of the final agitation which led to war.\"\n\nThe South African League, a new uitlander movement, prepared two petitions, each with more than 20,000 signatures, that appealed to Queen Victoria for intervention against the Transvaal government, which they called inefficient, corrupt and oppressive. Other uitlanders produced a counter-petition in which about as many affirmed their satisfaction with Kruger's government. Attempting to address the main point of contention raised by Milner and Chamberlain, Kruger spoke of reducing the residency qualification for foreigners to nine years or perhaps less. In May and June 1899 he and Milner met in Bloemfontein, with Steyn taking on the role of mediator. \"You \"must\" make concessions on the franchise issue\", Steyn counselled. \"Franchise after a residence of 14 years is in conflict with the first principles of a republican and democratic government. The Free State expects you to concede ... Should you not give in on this issue, you will lose all sympathy and all your friends.\" Kruger answered that he had already indicated his willingness to lower the franchise and was \"prepared to do anything\"—\"but they must not touch my independence\", he said. \"They must be reasonable in their demands.\"\n\nMilner wanted full voting rights after five years' residence, a revised naturalisation oath and increased legislative representation for the new burghers. Kruger offered naturalisation after two years' residence and full franchise after five more (seven years, effectively) along with increased representation and a new oath similar to that of the Free State. The High Commissioner declared his original request an \"irreducible minimum\" and said he would discuss nothing else until the franchise question was resolved. On 5 June Milner proposed an advisory council of non-burghers to represent the uitlanders, prompting Kruger to cry: \"How can strangers rule my state? How is it possible!\" When Milner said he did not foresee this council taking on any governing role, Kruger burst into tears, saying \"It is our country you want\". Milner ended the conference that evening, saying the further meetings Steyn and Kruger wanted were unnecessary.\n\nBack in Pretoria Kruger introduced a draft law to give the mining regions four more seats in each volksraad and fix a seven-year residency period for voting rights. This would not be retroactive, but up to two years' prior residence would be counted towards the seven, and uitlanders already in the country for nine years or more would get the vote immediately. Jan Hendrik Hofmeyr of the Afrikaner Bond persuaded Kruger to make this fully retrospective (to immediately enfranchise all white men in the country seven years or more), but Milner and the South African League deemed this insufficient. After Kruger rejected the British proposal of a joint commission on the franchise law, Smuts and Reitz proposed a five-year retroactive franchise and the extension of a quarter of the volksraad seats to the Witwatersrand region, on the condition that Britain drop any claim to suzerainty. Chamberlain issued an ultimatum in September 1899 in which he insisted on five years without conditions, else the British would \"formulate their own proposals for a final settlement.\"\n\nKruger resolved that war was inevitable, comparing the Boers' position to that of a man attacked by a lion with only a pocketknife for defence. \"Would you be such a coward as not to defend yourself with your pocketknife?\" he posited. Aware of the deployment of British troops from elsewhere in the Empire, Kruger and Smuts surmised that from a military standpoint the Boers' only chance was a swift pre-emptive strike. Steyn was anxious that they not be seen as the aggressors and insisted they delay until there was absolutely no hope of peace. He informed Kruger on 9 October that he also now thought war unavoidable; that afternoon the Transvaal government handed the British envoy Conyngham Greene an ultimatum advising that if Britain did not withdraw all troops from the border within 48 hours, a state of war would exist. The British government considered the conditions impossible and informed Kruger of this on 11 October 1899. The start of the Second Boer War was announced in Pretoria that day, at 17:00 local time.\n\nThe outbreak of war raised Kruger's international profile even further. In countries antagonistic to Britain he was idolised; Kruger expressed high hopes of German, French or Russian military intervention, despite the repeated despatches from Leyds telling him this was a fantasy. Kruger took no part in the fighting, partly because of his age and poor health—he turned 74 the week war broke out—but perhaps primarily to prevent his being killed or captured. His personal contributions to the military campaign were mostly from his office in Pretoria, where he oversaw the war effort and advised his officers by telegram. The Boer commandos, including four of Kruger's sons, six sons-in-law and 33 of his grandsons, advanced quickly into the Cape and Natal, won a series of victories and by the end of October were besieging Kimberley, Ladysmith and Mafeking. Soon thereafter, following a serious injury to Joubert, Kruger appointed Louis Botha to be acting commandant-general.\n\nThe British relief of Kimberley and Ladysmith in February 1900 marked the turning of the war against the Boers. Morale plummeted among the commandos over the following months, with many burghers simply going home; Kruger toured the front in response and asserted that any man who deserted in this time of need should be shot. He had hoped for large numbers of Cape Afrikaners to rally to the republican cause, but only small bands did so, along with a few thousand foreign volunteers (principally Dutchmen, Germans and Scandinavians). When British troops entered Bloemfontein on 13 March 1900 Reitz and others urged Kruger to destroy the gold mines, but he refused on the grounds that this would obstruct rehabilitation after the war. Mafeking was relieved two months later and on 30 May Lord Roberts took Johannesburg. Kruger left Pretoria on 29 May, travelling by train to Machadodorp, and on 2 June the government abandoned the capital. Roberts entered three days later.\n\nWith the major towns and the railways under British control, the conventional phase of the war ended; Kruger wired Steyn pondering surrender, but the Free State President insisted they fight \"to the bitter end\". Kruger found new strength in Steyn and telegrammed all Transvaal officers forbidding the laying down of arms. \"Bittereinders\" (\"bitter-enders\") under Botha, Christiaan de Wet and Koos de la Rey took to the veld and waged a guerrilla campaign. The British under Lord Kitchener applied scorched earth policy in response, burning the farms of Boers still in the field; non-combatants (mostly women and children) were put into what the British Army dubbed concentration camps. Kruger moved to Waterval Onder, where his small house became the \"Krugerhof\", in late June. After Roberts announced the annexation of the South African Republic to the British Empire on 1 September 1900—the Free State had been annexed on 24 May—Kruger proclaimed on 3 September that this was \"not recognised\" and \"declared null and void\". It was decided in the following days that to prevent his capture Kruger would leave for Lourenço Marques and there board ship for Europe. Officially he was to tour the continent, and perhaps America too, to raise support for the Boer cause.\n\nKruger left the Transvaal by rail on 11 September 1900—he wept as the train crossed into Mozambique. He planned to board the first outgoing steamer, the \"Herzog\" of the German East Africa Line, but was prevented from doing so when, at the behest of the local British Consul, the Portuguese Governor insisted that Kruger stay in port under house arrest. About a month later Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands concluded a deal with Britain to extricate Kruger on a Dutch warship, HNLMS \"Gelderland\", and convey him through non-British waters to Marseille. Kruger was delighted to hear of this, but dismayed that Gezina, still in Pretoria, was not well enough to accompany him. \"Gelderland\" departed on 20 October 1900.\n\nHe received a rapturous welcome in Marseille on 22 November—60,000 people turned out to see him disembark. Accompanied by Leyds, he went on to an exuberant reception in Paris, then continued to Cologne on 1 December. Here the public greeted him with similar excitement, but Kaiser Wilhelm II refused to receive him in Berlin. Having apparently still harboured hopes of German assistance in the war, Kruger was deeply shocked. \"The Kaiser has betrayed us\", he told Leyds. They went on to the Netherlands, which was strictly neutral and could not assist militarily, but would feel more like home. After another buoyant reception from the general public Kruger was cordially received by Wilhelmina and her family in The Hague, but it soon became clear to Leyds that it embarrassed the Dutch government to have them staying in the capital. The Kruger party moved to Hilversum in April 1901.\n\nGezina, with whom Kruger had had 16 children—nine sons, seven daughters (of whom some died young)—had eight sickly grandchildren transferred to her from the concentration camp at Krugersdorp, where their mother had died, in July 1901. Five of the eight children died within nine days, and two weeks later Gezina also died. Meintjes writes that a \"strange silence\" enveloped Kruger thereafter. By now partially blind and almost totally deaf, he dictated his memoirs to his secretary Hermanus Christiaan \"Madie\" Bredell and Pieter Grobler during the latter part of 1901, and the following year they were published. Kruger and his entourage relocated in December 1901 to Utrecht, where he took a comfortable villa called \"Oranjelust\" and was joined by his daughter Elsje Eloff and her family.\nRhodes died in March 1902, bequeathing Groote Schuur to be the official residence for future premiers of a unified South Africa. Kruger quipped to Bredell: \"Perhaps I'll be the first.\" The war formally ended on 31 May 1902 with the Treaty of Vereeniging; the Boer republics became the Orange River and Transvaal Colonies. Kruger accepted it was all over only when Bredell had the flags of the South African Republic and the Orange Free State removed from outside Oranjelust two weeks later. In reply to condolences from Germany, Kruger would only say: \"My grief is beyond expression.\"\n\nKruger would not countenance the idea of returning home, partly because of personal reluctance to become a British subject again, and partly because he thought he could better serve his people by remaining in exile. Steyn similarly refused to accept the new order and joined Kruger in Europe, though he was later to return. Botha, De Wet and De la Rey visited Oranjelust in August 1902 and, according to hearsay, were berated by Kruger for \"signing away independence\"—rumours of such a scene were widespread enough that the generals issued a statement denying them.\n\nAfter passing October 1902 to May 1903 at Menton on the French Riviera, Kruger moved back to Hilversum, then returned to Menton in October 1903. In early 1904 he moved to Clarens, a small village in the canton of Vaud in western Switzerland where he spent the rest of his days looking over Lake Geneva and the Alps from his balcony. \"He who wishes to create a future must not lose track of the past\", he wrote in his final letter, addressed to the people of the Transvaal. \"Thus; seek all that is to be found good and fair in the past, shape your ideal accordingly and try to realise that ideal for the future. It is true: much that has been built is now destroyed, damaged, levelled. But with unity of purpose and unity of strength that which has been pulled down can be built again.\" After contracting pneumonia, Paul Kruger died in Clarens on 14 July 1904 at the age of 78. His Bible lay open on a table beside him.\n\nKruger's body was initially buried in The Hague, but was soon repatriated with British permission. After ceremonial lying in state, he was accorded a state funeral in Pretoria on 16 December 1904, the \"vierkleur\" of the South African Republic draped over his coffin, and buried in what is now called the Heroes' Acre in the Church Street Cemetery.\n\nAcademic opinion on Kruger is divided. To admirers he was an astute reader of people, events and law who faithfully defended a maligned nation and became a tragic folk hero; to critics he was \"an anachronistic throwback\", the stubborn, slippery guardian of an unjust cause and an oppressor of black Africans. \"More nonsense has been written about him than anybody I know of\", writes Meintjes, in whose view the true figure has been obscured by conflicting attempts to sabotage or whitewash his image—\"a veritable bog of hostility and sentiment, prejudice and deification\", depicting Kruger as anything \"from saint to stuffy mendacious savage\". Rights and wrongs aside, Meintjes asserts, Kruger is the central figure of Boer history and one of the \"most extraordinary\" of South Africans.\n\nFollowing the Union of South Africa under Botha in 1910, Kruger remained \"a vital force in South African politics and Afrikaner culture\". The government wildlife reserve he had proclaimed in 1898 was expanded and dubbed Kruger National Park in 1926. In 1954, over half a century after its construction by Anton van Wouw, a bronze statue of Kruger in his characteristic Dopper suit and top hat was erected in Church Square, Pretoria; Kruger stands atop a plinth surrounded by four crouching Boers from different time periods. Thirteen years later the South African Mint put his likeness on the Krugerrand, a gold bullion coin still produced and exported in the 21st century. His home in Pretoria and farm at Boekenhoutfontein are provincial heritage sites, the former of which is preserved to appear as in his time.\n\nKruger gives his name to the town of Krugersdorp, and to many streets and squares in South Africa and other countries, especially the Netherlands and Belgium. This has, on occasion, led to controversy; in 2009 local authorities in St Gallen, Switzerland renamed \"Krügerstrasse\" \"because of racist associations\". Clarens, Free State is named after Kruger's last home in Switzerland. During the Second World War Kruger's life story and image were appropriated by propagandists in Nazi Germany, who produced the biographical film \"Ohm Krüger\" (\"Uncle Krüger\", 1941) to attack the British, with Emil Jannings in the title role. The underdevelopment of South African administrative law until the late 20th century was, Davenport asserts, the direct result of Kruger's censure and dismissal of Chief Justice Kotzé in 1898 over the question of judicial review.\n\n\"Paul Kruger's name and fame he made himself\", Leyds said. \"It is sometimes said that he was illiterate. This is of course nonsense ... He was certainly not learned, but he had a thorough knowledge of many things.\" \"In the lower spheres of diplomacy Mr Kruger was a master\", E B Iwan-Müller asserted. \"He was quick in detecting the false moves made by his opponents, and an adept in turning them to his own advantage; but of the large combinations he was hopelessly incapable. To secure a brilliant and conspicuous success today he was ready to squander the prospects of the future, if, indeed, he had the power of forecasting them. He was what I believe soldiers would call a brilliant tactician, but a hopeless strategist.\" Soon after Kruger's death, Smuts told the British humanitarian campaigner Emily Hobhouse: \"He typified the Boer character both in its brighter and darker aspects, and was no doubt the greatest man—both morally and intellectually—whom the Boer race has so far produced. In his iron will and tenacity, his 'never say die' attitude towards fate, his mystic faith in another world, he represented what is best in all of us.\"\n\nFootnotes\nReferences\nNewspaper and journal articles\nOnline sources\n\nBibliography\n\n\nIn other languages\n"}
{"id": "28364808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28364808", "title": "Peripatopsidae", "text": "Peripatopsidae\n\nPeripatopsidae is one of the two living velvet worm families.\n\nThe Peripatopsidae exhibit relatively many characteristics that are perceived as original or \"primitive\" with respect to the Peripatidae. They have between 13 and 25 pairs of legs, behind or between the last of which is the genital opening (gonopore). Both oviparous and ovoviviparous, as well as genuinely viviparous, species exist, although the Peripatopsidae essentially lack a placenta.\n\nThe distribution of the Peripatopsidae is circumaustral; in particular, they inhabit Australasia, South Africa and Chile.\n\nThe family contains the following genera:\n"}
{"id": "15916656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15916656", "title": "Permindex", "text": "Permindex\n\nPermindex, also referred to as Permanent Industrial Exposition or Permanent Industrial Expositions, was a trade organization headquartered in Basel, Switzerland. Allegations that Permindex was a front organization for the Central Intelligence Agency have been advanced by advocates of some John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories.\n\nPermindex was described as a holding company built with Canadian, Italian, Swiss, and United States capital. As of 1960, it had 20 stockholders. In 1959, former Prime Minister of Hungary Ferenc Nagy, said to be the president of Permindex, outlined the group's plans to build \"Europe's first international shopping centre for businessmen\" within the previously unfinished Esposizione Universale Roma. Permindex occupied 400,000 square feet within the four \"palaces\" under a nine-year lease with another nine-year option. The project was modeled after and designed to compete with the International Trade Mart in New Orleans. The centre opened on January 16, 1960.\n\nBusinessman Clay Shaw, head of the International Trade Mart in New Orleans, represented the United States on the board of directors for Permindex. On March 1, 1967, Shaw was arrested and charged with conspiring to assassinate President John F. Kennedy by New Orleans District Attorney Jim Garrison. Three days later on March 4, the Italian left-wing newspaper \"Paese Sera\" published a story alleging that Shaw was linked to the CIA through his involvement in the Centro Mondiale Commerciale, a subsidiary of Permindex in which Shaw was also said to be a board member. According to \"Paese Sera\", the CMC had been a front organization developed by the CIA for transferring funds to Italy for \"illegal political-espionage activities\" and had attempted to depose French President Charles de Gaulle in the early 1960s. On March 6, the newspaper printed other allegations about individuals it said were connected to Permindex, including Louis Bloomfield whom it described as \"an American agent who now plays the role of a businessman from Canada (who) established secret ties in Rome with Deputies of the Christian Democrats and neo-Fascist parties.\" The allegations were retold in various newspapers associated with the Communist parties in Italy (\"l'Unità\"), France (\"L'Humanité\"), and the Soviet Union (\"Pravda\"), as well as leftist papers in Canada and Greece, prior to reaching the American press eight weeks later. American journalist Max Holland stated that \"Paese Sera\"'s allegations connecting Shaw to the CIA eventually led to Garrison implicating the CIA in a conspiracy to assassinate Kennedy.\n\nAccording to Holland, an internal investigation by the CIA's counterintelligence staff found that Clay Shaw had volunteered information to the agency's Domestic Contact Service from 1948 to 1956, but that the substance of the allegations were not true. It concluded that neither Permindex nor Centro Mondiale Commerciale were a front to channel fund to anti-communists, and that the agency had not solicited Shaw to use his relationship with CMC for clandestine purposes.\n"}
{"id": "3658007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658007", "title": "Red thread of fate", "text": "Red thread of fate\n\nThe Red Thread of Fate (), also referred to as the Red Thread of Marriage, and other variants, is an East Asian belief originating from Chinese legend. According to this myth, the gods tie an invisible red cord around the ankles of those that are destined to meet one another in a certain situation or help each other in a certain way. Often, in Japanese and Korean culture, it is thought to be tied around the little finger. According to Chinese legend, the deity in charge of \"the red thread\" is believed to be \"Yuè Xià Lǎorén\" (月下老人), often abbreviated to \"Yuè Lǎo\" (月老), the old lunar matchmaker god, who is in charge of marriages.\n\nThe two people connected by the red thread are destined lovers, regardless of place, time, or circumstances. This magical cord may stretch or tangle, but never break. This myth is similar to the Western concept of soulmate or a destined flame.\n\nOne story featuring the red thread of fate involves a young boy. Walking home one night, a young boy sees an old man (Yue Xia Lao) standing beneath the moonlight. The man explains to the boy that he is attached to his destined wife by a red thread. Yue Xia Lao shows the boy the young girl who is destined to be his wife. Being young and having no interest in having a wife, the young boy picks up a rock and throws it at the girl, running away. Many years later, when the boy has grown into a young man, his parents arrange a wedding for him. On the night of his wedding, his wife waits for him in their bedroom, with the traditional veil covering her face. Raising it, the man is delighted to find that his wife is one of the great beauties of his village. However, she wears an adornment on her eyebrow. He asks her why she wears it and she responds that when she was a young girl, a boy threw a rock at her that struck her, leaving a scar on her eyebrow. She self-consciously wears the adornment to cover it up. The woman is, in fact, the same young girl connected to the man by the red thread shown to him by Yue Xia Lao back in his childhood, showing that they were connected by the red thread of fate.\n\n"}
{"id": "20610136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610136", "title": "Reproductive system", "text": "Reproductive system\n\nThe reproductive system or genital system is a system of sex organs within an organism which work together for the purpose of sexual reproduction. Many non-living substances such as fluids, hormones, and pheromones are also important accessories to the reproductive system. Unlike most organ systems, the sexes of differentiated species often have significant differences. These differences allow for a combination of genetic material between two individuals, which allows for the possibility of greater genetic fitness of the offspring.\n\nIn mammals, the major organs of the reproductive system include the external genitalia (penis and vulva) as well as a number of internal organs, including the gamete-producing gonads (testicles and ovaries). Diseases of the human reproductive system are very common and widespread, particularly communicable sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nMost other vertebrate animals have generally similar reproductive systems consisting of gonads, ducts, and openings. However, there is a great diversity of physical adaptations as well as reproductive strategies in every group of vertebrates.\n\nVertebrate animals all share key elements of their reproductive systems. They all have gamete-producing organs or gonads. In females, these gonads are then connected by oviducts to an opening to the outside of the body, typically the cloaca, but sometimes to a unique pore such as a vagina or intromittent organ.\n\nThe human reproductive system usually involves internal fertilization by sexual intercourse. During this process, the male inserts his erect penis into the female's vagina and ejaculates semen, which contains sperm. The sperm then travels through the vagina and cervix into the uterus or fallopian tubes for fertilization of the ovum. Upon successful fertilization and implantation, gestation of the fetus then occurs within the female's uterus for approximately nine months, this process is known as pregnancy in humans. Gestation ends with birth, the process of birth is known as labor. Labor consists of the muscles of the uterus contracting, the cervix dilating, and the baby passing out the vagina (the female genital organ). Human's babies and children are nearly helpless and require high levels of parental care for many years. One important type of parental care is the use of the mammary glands in the female breasts to nurse the baby.\n\nThe female reproductive system has two functions: The first is to produce egg cells, and the second is to protect and nourish the offspring until birth. The male reproductive system has one function, and it is to produce and deposit sperm. Humans have a high level of sexual differentiation. In addition to differences in nearly every reproductive organ, numerous differences typically occur in secondary sexual characteristics.\n\nThe male reproductive system is a series of organs located outside of the body and around the pelvic region of a male that contribute towards the reproduction process. The primary direct function of the male reproductive system is to provide the male sperm for fertilization of the ovum.\n\nThe major reproductive organs of the male can be grouped into three categories. The first category is sperm production and storage. Production takes place in the testes which are housed in the temperature regulating scrotum, immature sperm then travel to the epididymis for development and storage. The second category are the ejaculatory fluid producing glands which include the seminal vesicles, prostate, and the vas deferens. The final category are those used for copulation, and deposition of the spermatozoa (sperm) within the male, these include the penis, urethra, vas deferens, and Cowper's gland.\n\nMajor secondary sexual characteristics includes: larger, more muscular stature, deepened voice, facial and body hair, broad shoulders, and development of an adam's apple. An important sexual hormone of males is androgen, and particularly testosterone.\n\nThe testes release a hormone that controls the development of sperm. This hormone is also responsible for the development of physical characteristics in men such as facial hair and a deep voice.\n\nThe human female reproductive system is a series of organs primarily located inside of the body and around the pelvic region of a female that contribute towards the reproductive process. The human female reproductive system contains three main parts: the vulva, which leads to the vagina, the vaginal opening, to the uterus; the uterus, which holds the developing fetus; and the ovaries, which produce the female's ova. The breasts are involved during the parenting stage of reproduction, but in most classifications they are not considered to be part of the female reproductive system.\n\nThe vagina meets the outside at the vulva, which also includes the labia, clitoris and urethra; during intercourse this area is lubricated by mucus secreted by the Bartholin's glands. The vagina is attached to the uterus through the cervix, while the uterus is attached to the ovaries via the fallopian tubes. Each ovary contains hundreds of egg cells or ova (singular \"ovum\").\n\nApproximately every 28 days, the pituitary gland releases a hormone that stimulates some of the ova to develop and grow. One ovum is released and it passes through the fallopian tube into the uterus. Hormones produced by the ovaries prepare the uterus to receive the ovum. It sita her and awaits the sperm for fertilization to occur. When this does not occur i.e. no sperm for fertilization, the lining of the uterus, called the endometrium, and unfertilized ova are shed each cycle through the process of menstruation. If the ovum is fertilized by sperm, it attaches to the endometrium and the fetus develops.\n\nMost mammal reproductive systems are similar, however, there are some notable differences between the non-human mammals and humans. For instance, most male mammals have a penis which is stored internally until erect, and most have a penis bone or baculum. Additionally, males of most species do not remain continually sexually fertile as humans do. Like humans, most groups of mammals have descended testicles found within a scrotum, however, others have descended testicles that rest on the ventral body wall, and a few groups of mammals, such as elephants, have undescended testicles found deep within their body cavities near their kidneys.\n\nThe reproductive system of marsupials is unique in that the female has two vaginae, both of which open externally through one orifice but lead to different compartments within the uterus; males usually have a two-pronged penis, which corresponds to the females' two vaginae. Marsupials typically develop their offspring in an external pouch containing teats to which their newborn young (joeys) attach themselves for post uterine development. Also, marsupials have a unique prepenial scrotum. The 15mm (5/8 in) long newborn joey instinctively crawls and wriggles the several inches (15 cm), while clinging to fur, on the way to its mother's pouch.\n\nThe uterus and vagina are unique to mammals with no homologue in birds, reptiles, amphibians, or fish. In place of the uterus the other vertebrate groups have an unmodified oviduct leading directly to a cloaca, which is a shared exit-hole for gametes, urine, and feces. Monotremes (i.e. platypus and echidnas), a group of egg-laying mammals, also lack a uterus and vagina, and in that respect have a reproductive system resembling that of a reptile.\n\nIn domestic canines, sexual maturity (puberty) occurs between the ages of 6 to 12 months for both males and females, although this can be delayed until up to two years of age for some large breeds.\n\nThe mare's reproductive system is responsible for controlling gestation, birth, and lactation, as well as her estrous cycle and mating behavior. The stallion's reproductive system is responsible for his sexual behavior and secondary sex characteristics (such as a large crest).\n\nMale and female birds have a cloaca, an opening through which eggs, sperm, and wastes pass. Intercourse is performed by pressing the lips of the cloacae together, which is sometimes known as intromittent organ which is known as a phallus that is analogous to the mammals' penis. The female lays amniotic eggs in which the young fetus continues to develop after it leaves the female's body. Unlike most vertebrates female birds typically have only one functional ovary and oviduct. As a group, birds, like mammals, are noted for their high level of parental care.\n\nReptiles are almost all sexually dimorphic, and exhibit internal fertilization through the cloaca. Some reptiles lay eggs while others are viviparous (animals that deliver live young). Reproductive organs are found within the cloaca of reptiles. Most male reptiles have copulatory organs, which are usually retracted or inverted and stored inside the body. In turtles and crocodilians, the male has a single median penis-like organ, while male snakes and lizards each possess a pair of penis-like organs.\n\nMost amphibians exhibit external fertilization of eggs, typically within the water, though some amphibians such as caecilians have internal fertilization. All have paired, internal gonads, connected by ducts to the cloaca.\n\nFish exhibit a wide range of different reproductive strategies. Most fish, however, are oviparous and exhibit external fertilization. In this process, females use their cloaca to release large quantities of their gametes, called spawn into the water and one or more males release \"milt\", a white fluid containing many sperm over the unfertilized eggs. Other species of fish are oviparous and have internal fertilization aided by pelvic or anal fins that are modified into an intromittent organ analogous to the human penis. A small portion of fish species are either viviparous or ovoviviparous, and are collectively known as livebearers.\n\nFish gonads are typically pairs of either ovaries or testes. Most fish are sexually dimorphic but some species are hermaphroditic or unisexual.\n\nInvertebrates have an extremely diverse array of reproductive systems, the only commonality may be that they all lay eggs. Also, aside from cephalopods and arthropods, nearly all other invertebrates are hermaphroditic and exhibit external fertilization.\n\nAll cephalopods are sexually dimorphic and reproduce by laying eggs. Most cephalopods have semi-internal fertilization, in which the male places his gametes inside the female's mantle cavity or pallial cavity to fertilize the ova found in the female's single ovary. Likewise, male cephalopods have only a single testicle. In the female of most cephalopods the nidamental glands aid in development of the egg.\n\nThe \"penis\" in most unshelled male cephalopods (Coleoidea) is a long and muscular end of the gonoduct used to transfer spermatophores to a modified arm called a hectocotylus. That in turn is used to transfer the spermatophores to the female. In species where the hectocotylus is missing, the \"penis\" is long and able to extend beyond the mantle cavity and transfer the spermatophores directly to the female.\n\nMost insects reproduce oviparously, i.e. by laying eggs. The eggs are produced by the female in a pair of ovaries. Sperm, produced by the male in one testis or more commonly two, is transmitted to the female during mating by means of external genitalia. The sperm is stored within the female in one or more spermathecae. At the time of fertilization, the eggs travel along oviducts to be fertilized by the sperm and are then expelled from the body (\"laid\"), in most cases via an ovipositor.\n\nArachnids may have one or two gonads, which are located in the abdomen. The genital opening is usually located on the underside of the second abdominal segment. In most species, the male transfers sperm to the female in a package, or spermatophore. Complex courtship rituals have evolved in many arachnids to ensure the safe delivery of the sperm to the female.\n\nArachnids usually lay yolky eggs, which hatch into immatures that resemble adults. Scorpions, however, are either ovoviviparous or viviparous, depending on species, and bear live young.\n\nAmong all living organisms, flowers, which are the reproductive structures of angiosperms, are the most varied physically and show a correspondingly great diversity in methods of reproduction. Plants that are not flowering plants (green algae, mosses, liverworts, hornworts, ferns and gymnosperms such as conifers) also have complex interplays between morphological adaptation and environmental factors in their sexual reproduction. The breeding system, or how the sperm from one plant fertilizes the ovum of another, depends on the reproductive morphology, and is the single most important determinant of the genetic structure of nonclonal plant populations. Christian Konrad Sprengel (1793) studied the reproduction of flowering plants and for the first time it was understood that the pollination process involved both biotic and abiotic interactions.\n\nFungal reproduction is complex, reflecting the differences in lifestyles and genetic makeup within this diverse kingdom of organisms. It is estimated that a third of all fungi reproduce using more than one method of propagation; for example, reproduction may occur in two well-differentiated stages within the life cycle of a species, the teleomorph and the anamorph. Environmental conditions trigger genetically determined developmental states that lead to the creation of specialized structures for sexual or asexual reproduction. These structures aid reproduction by efficiently dispersing spores or spore-containing propagules.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8082585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8082585", "title": "Shalom Zachar", "text": "Shalom Zachar\n\nA Shalom Zachar (also: \"Sholom Zochor\", \"Shulem Zucher\", ; trans. \"Welcoming the male\"; lit. \"Peace be upon the male\"), is a gathering which takes place in Ashkenazi Jewish circles on the first Friday night after a baby boy is born. Although intended to \"console\" the newborn, the get-together is treated as a happy occasion.\n\nThe source for this practice is the ruling of the Rema in the Shulchan Aruch, Yoreh De'ah 265:12:\n\nIt is customary to make a festive meal on the Friday night after the birth of a baby boy. People go to the house where the baby is, to taste something [there], and this [eating] is also [considered] a seudat mitzvah.\n\nThe Taz, a major commentator on the Rema, finds the source for the Rema's statement in the Talmudic tractate of Niddah (30b). Here the Talmud states that while a baby develops within the womb, \"he is taught the entire Torah. However, as soon as he enters the air of this world, an angel comes and strikes him on his mouth, causing him to forget the entire Torah\" (Taz, Yoreh Deah 265:13). Because the baby forgot all the Torah he learned, he is likened to a mourner. Just as people visit a mourner in his home to comfort him during the mourning period, people visit the home of the newborn to console him for the Torah he has forgotten.\n\nRabbi Yaakov Emden writes that this meal is called a \"Seudat Zachar\" (Meal of Remembrance), and is held specifically on Shabbat because that day is also connected with remembrance, as the Torah states, \"Remember the Shabbat day to sanctify it\" (Exodus 20:8).\n\nThe \"Terumat HaDeshen\" and \"Kitzur Shulchan Aruch Chapter 163:8\" consider the Shalom Zachar a Seudat mitzvah.\n\nIn current practice, the Shalom Zachar is an informal, drop-in gathering which takes place after the Friday night meal. The location of the gathering is determined by where the father of the new baby spends Shabbat, since he presides over the event. Thus, a Shalom Zachar usually takes place in the home of the newborn (even if the newborn is still in the hospital), although it may also take place at the home of grandparents, in-laws, or even friends with whom the father is spending Shabbat.\n\nTypically, mainly men and boys drop by to convey their congratulations, to have a bite to eat, to share words of Torah, and to sing songs welcoming the newborn and thanking God for the birth. If the mother is already back home with the baby, female relatives or friends will usually drop by to visit her as well.\n\nTypical light refreshments include cake, cookies, popcorn, pretzels, nuts and seeds, soft drinks, and beer. In addition, chickpeas are customarily served because they are a round-shaped food eaten by mourners (as they symbolize the cyclical nature of life). Beer is served as it is cheap and most can afford to buy it.\n\nA Shalom Zachar is not held when this Friday night coincides with the night of Yom Kippur or the night of the Passover Seder. Yom Kippur is a fast day, and therefore all eating and drinking is forbidden. On the night of the Passover Seder, it is forbidden to eat anything after eating the afikomen, which is eaten at the end of the meal. If the Shalom Zachar falls on a Friday night during any other day of Passover, matzah cakes and potato-flour cookies will be served instead of regular flour cakes and cookies.\n\nSephardic Jews do not hold a Shalom Zachar. Instead, their custom is to conduct a gathering called a Brit Yitzchak on the evening preceding the newborn boy's brit milah.\n\n"}
{"id": "6947162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6947162", "title": "Spiritual transformation", "text": "Spiritual transformation\n\nSpiritual transformation is a fundamental change in a person's sacred or spiritual life.\n\nIn psychology, spiritual transformation is understood within the context of an individual's \"meaning system\", especially in relation to concepts of the sacred or ultimate concern. Two of the fuller treatments of the concept in psychology come from Kenneth Pargament and from Raymond Paloutzian. Pargament says that \"at its heart, spiritual transformation refers to a fundamental change in the place of the sacred or the character of the sacred in the life of the individual. Spiritual transformation can be understood in terms of new configurations of strivings\" (p. 18). Paloutzian says that \"spiritual transformation constitutes a change in the meaning system that a person holds as a basis for self-definition, the interpretation of life, and overarching purposes and ultimate concerns\" (p. 334).\n\nThe Metanexus Institute in New York has sponsored scientific research on spiritual transformation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1111151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1111151", "title": "Taotao Mona", "text": "Taotao Mona\n\nTaotao Mo'na, also commonly written as taotaomona or taotaomo'na (Chamoru \"taotao\", \"person/people\" and \"mo'na\" \"precede\", loosely translated as \"people before history\" or \"ancient people\"), are spirits of ancient inhabitants believed to haunt the mountains and wild places of the Mariana Islands, which include Luta, Saipan, Tinian and Guam, in Micronesia. Belief in Taotao Mo'na is present throughout these islands.\n\nWith the Spanish conquest of Guam in the 17th and 18th centuries, and the resultant destruction of the old way of life of the native Chamorros, went also the practice of ancestor veneration. Early Spanish accounts of Chamorros did not include any mention of Taotao Mo'na. The concept of Taotao Mo'na therefore appears to have emerged during the Spanish occupation and was created by the Chamorros who \"turned to the memory of their Before Time Ancestors for pride and comfort.\" The modern stories of Taotao Mo'na tend to be simple superstitions in which Taotao Mo'na are mischievous or monstrous, rather than the complex myths of pre-Contact Chamorros, such as the creation story of the gods Puntan and Fu'una or the Three Feats of Strength by Chief Gadao.\n\nDespite the modernity of most Chamorros, there is still a healthy respect for Taotao Mo'na. It is thought that if they are offended, they can cause bad influences in a particular location or towards a particular person. Taotao Mo'na are believed to inhabit any secluded natural place on the island particularly in the south of the island. Locals and \"traditional\" Chamorros claim that one must request permission from the Taotao Mo'na before entering the jungle or taking fruit or wood from it. Another enduring superstition is their dislike of pregnant women. Pregnant Chamorro women are often told to use perfume to mask their scent or to wear their husband's clothing, and to stay indoors at night to keep taotaomo'na away.\n\nSome Taotao Mo'na are described as being headless and malicious if their land is not respected, while some are said to be gentler spirits who aid local witch doctors, called suruhanas or suruhanus. Taotao Mo'na have been known to pinch, bruise, imitate voices and kidnap children for short periods of time. People also claim taotaomon'a can become attached to certain people they like, making them ill - and only a visit to a suruhana can make the spirit go away.\n\nThe Taotao Mo'na were investigated in a segment of the Syfy television show \"Destination Truth\" entitled \"Guam Zombies,\" where they were (incorrectly) said to appear as zombie-like; however, the Taotao Mo'na are not zombies, but ancestral spirits that are said to live within banyan trees. The trees themselves are said to have moving roots that change direction every night.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22370687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22370687", "title": "The Last Defender of Camelot (The Twilight Zone)", "text": "The Last Defender of Camelot (The Twilight Zone)\n\n\"The Last Defender of Camelot\" is the second segment of the twenty-fourth episode of the first season (1985–86) of the American television series \"The Twilight Zone\". It was based on the short story of the same name written by Roger Zelazny, and was adapted by George R. R. Martin.\n\nLondon, 1986. An elderly gentleman packs his car to go on a trip and he is accosted by three young thugs. He turns the tables on them and forces one of the thugs whose name is Tom to reveal that a woman paid them to perpetrate the attack. The old man forces Tom to take him to the woman and they enter a fortune teller's shop, where a woman is sitting in the dark. She reveals that she is Morgan le Fay of legend and that she knows the elderly man is Lancelot. Merlin, she says, is hiding in a cave in Cornwall and Lancelot is planning to meet with him. She warns that Merlin is dangerous and is not to be trusted. She casts a spell that sends Lancelot and Tom to the cave entrance, where Lancelot enters alone.\n\nMerlin questions Lancelot about the state of the world and then insists that they work together to make Merlin king. Lancelot explains that the world has changed and that kings are mere figureheads and the people elect their own leaders now. He also tries to explain the modern dangers of war but Merlin is unconvinced. Instead, he demonstrates his power by animating an empty suit of armor to make a champion. They depart and join Tom outside. Lancelot finds they are now at Stonehenge and Merlin insists upon sacrificing Tom to completely restore his magic but Lancelot intercedes and Morgan le Fay arrives.\n\nMagically summoning his armor, Lancelot does battle with the hollow knight. Meanwhile, Morgan le Fay stops Merlin from interfering with the duel but she is mortally wounded, and Lancelot prevails against the hollow knight. Merlin then points his staff at Lancelot and attempts to destroy him but Lancelot's shield staves off the attack and Merlin's staff is destroyed. Merlin then requests that Lancelot kill him but Lancelot refuses. Merlin ages rapidly and vanishes.\n\nAs she dies in Lancelot's arms, Morgan Le Fay tells him how to return to London via a magic portal. As he and Tom approach the portal, Lancelot sees a beautiful castle in the distance decides to head there instead and Tom follows.\n\n"}
{"id": "50962080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50962080", "title": "Thomas Brennan (footballer)", "text": "Thomas Brennan (footballer)\n\nThomas James Brennan was a Scottish professional football inside forward who played in the Football League for Gillingham, Blackburn Rovers, Stockport County and Crystal Palace.\n"}
{"id": "33665819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33665819", "title": "Timothy E. Quill", "text": "Timothy E. Quill\n\nTimothy E. Quill is an American physician specialising in palliative care at the University of Rochester Medical Center in Rochester, New York. He is also a board member of the Death with Dignity National Center in Portland, Oregon. Quill was the lead plaintiff in a case that eventually reached the Supreme Court of the United States in 1997, \"Vacco v. Quill\", in which the Court decided that a state law against physician-assisted suicide was constitutional.\n\nQuill earned his undergraduate degree from Amherst College in 1971, and his M.D. from the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1976.\n\nIn 1991, Quill published an article in \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" describing how he assisted in the suicide of Patricia Diane Trumbull, a 45-year-old leukemia patient referred to in the article as \"Diane\". The report describes how Patricia, a long-time patient of Quill's with an extensive medical history including vaginal cancer, alcoholism and other issues was diagnosed with leukemia but refused chemotherapy. She shortly thereafter decided that she wanted to kill herself rather than have a \"lingering death\" which doctors had told her may be a matter of weeks or months away. Quill describes in the article how he referred her to the Hemlock Society and a week later she requested barbiturates to help with \"insomnia\". He gave her a prescription and told her the amount required to treat both insomnia and the dose required to bring about death. Some time after getting the prescription, she said her final goodbyes to Quill and her family and took the barbiturates alone. Patricia's husband reported the death to Quill who reported the cause of death as acute leukemia but left off mention of the suicide in reporting it to the medical examiner. When interviewed by the \"New York Times\" in 1991, Quill stated that he had not helped anyone else to die before or since. No charges or indictments were brought against Quill. The publication of this story has been considered to have \"made history\" and to have \"stunned the medical community\".\n\nQuill has subsequently been active in arguing for legalization of physician-assisted suicide, including during the controversial trials of Jack Kevorkian, and regarding the case of Terri Schiavo. Quill has argued against the principle of double effect in bioethics.\n\nIn 2013, the American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine included Quill on a list of 'Hospice and Palliative Medicine Visionaries'.\n\n"}
{"id": "4018103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4018103", "title": "Vampire (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)", "text": "Vampire (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)\n\nIn the fictional world of the television series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and its spin-off series \"Angel\", a vampire is a unique variety of demon that can only exist on the earthly plane by inhabiting and animating a human corpse. In \"Fray\", a \"Buffy\" comic book spin-off set about a century in the future, vampires are also called lurks.\n\nThe vampires in the canonical Buffyverse differ greatly from those that appear in the 1992 \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" movie. The movie's vampires are able to fly, look pale but relatively human, and do not crumble to dust when killed. The canonical vampires, introduced in the first episode of the television series, are demonic spirits that inhabit human corpses. \nBecause of their partly human nature, vampires are considered impure by other demons who sometimes call them \"blood rats\".\n\nAccording to Rupert Giles, when the ancient race of demons called the Old Ones were banished from Earth, the last one fed on a human and mixed their blood, creating the first vampire. According to Illyria, vampires existed during her time as an Old Onelong before the rest were banished from the realm. Vampires possess all the memories and skills of their human predecessors. They also retain much of their host's personality, including any mental illnesses or emotional instabilities. For example, Spike (unlike most vampires) retained his love for his dying mother and Harmony kept her vain, shallow valley girl personality and her love of unicorns. Darla tells the newly turned Liam/Angelus that \"what we were informs what we become\"; after her resurrection as a human she says that the darkness he unleashed as Angelus was always in him as a human, long before they met.\n\nVampires possess superhuman abilities, such as increased strength, heightened senses, and accelerated healingall of which increase as they grow older or when they drink the blood of powerful supernatural creatures. They can drain animalsincluding humansof their blood in a few seconds. Vampires are immortal and can live indefinitely without any signs of aging, though extremely old vampires acquire demonic features such as cloven hooves for hands, and lose their resemblance to humans. Vampiresexcept those who are skilled with powerful magic such as Count Draculacannot shape-shift.\n\nVampires in the Buffyverse live on a diet of blood, preferring fresh human blood; they can distinguish the blood of different animals by flavor, and those who do not drink human blood enjoy that of otters. They require no other food or drink, and although they can ingest it they generally find it bland. Prolonged deprivation of blood can impair a vampire's higher brain functions and they become \"living skeletons\", but lack of blood will not result in a vampire's death. They do not need to breathe airalthough they can breathe to speak or smokeand they cannot pass breath on to others via CPR. They are affected by drugs, poisons, and electricity and they can be sedated and tasered. Some vampires enjoy both alcoholic and caffeinated beverages, and tobacco.\n\nVampires can change at will between human appearance and a monstrous form with a pronounced brow ridge, yellow eyes, and sharp teeth. They make a roaring sound when angered. In human form, they can be detected by their lack of heartbeat and lower body temperature. They do not cast reflections, although they can be photographed and filmed. They are largely immune to mind-reading, but Willow Rosenberg can telepathically communicate with vampires such as Spike.\n\nVampires can be killed by beheading, burning with fire or sunlight, or by penetration of the heart by a wooden object. When killed, a vampire rapidly turns to dry dust. They heal quickly from most injuries but do not regrow lost limbs (although Spike was able to use his hands when they were reattached after being amputated by a mentally disturbed Slayer) and can acquire scars. Their flesh burns in direct sunlight, and on contact with blessed objects such as holy water, a Bible, recently consecrated ground or a Christian cross. They can enter consecrated buildings but appear to feel ill at ease. Vampires are attracted to bright colors and are said to dislike garlic.\n\nVampires cannot enter a human residence without having been invited once by a living resident; however, once given, such an invitation can only be revoked by a magic ritual. If all living residents die, vampires can enter freely. Areas open to the public and the homes of other vampires, demons, and non-humans are not protected.\n\nTo reproduce, vampires must drain a human being of most of his or her blood, then force the victim to drink some of the vampire's blood. This process is known as \"siring\", and the vampire who does so is called a \"sire\". Sires often act as mentors to their 'children' and form small covens of related vampires for various purposes. Some vampires can be telepathically linked to those that they have sired. The amount of time it takes for a new vampire to rise seems to vary; Buffy often kills vampires as they rise from their graves but other vampires rise after only a few hours. There is no explanation given for this in the series. They cannot normally reproduce sexually, but Jasmine manipulates events that allow Angel and Darla to conceive a son, Connor, who has a human soul with vampire-like abilities, but none of their weaknesses or need to drink blood.\n\nVampires in the Buffyverse do not have human souls, but Giles in \"The Harvest\" says the human corpse a vampire is born into is infected with a demon soul via vampiric blood, and therefore lacks a conscience. Angel and Spikevampires who have had their human souls restored to themfeel remorse for their previous actions. However, soulless vampires are capable of feeling human emotions such as love, though these tend to be expressed as twisted and obsessive behavior.\n\nVariations of vampires are seen on both \"Buffy\" and \"Angel\". In the \"Angel\" season two episode \"Through the Looking Glass\", Angel and his team travel to a parallel world, Pylea, where he becomes a \"Van-Tal\" demon with green skin, spines and a bestial appearance. This form is described by Wesley as the vampire (specifically the demon that creates the vampire) in its purest form. While in this form, Angel lacks the ability to reason, possessing neither the compassion his soul gives him nor the sadism he possesses as Angelus.\n\nThe seventh season of \"Buffy\" introduces the Turok-Han, an ancient species of vampire analogous to Neanderthal man. These Turok-Han, colloquially referred to as \"über-vamps\", are stronger and harder to kill than common vampires, can usually withstand a stake to the chest without dusting and show only minor burns when doused with holy water, but can still be killed by beheading or sunlight. The Turok-Han show very little intelligence and cannot speak.\n\nAt the end of Season Eight, Buffy destroys the Seed of Wonder, affecting the magical world but not active demons and vampires on Earth. All new vampires sired after the Seed's destruction rise as mindless, feral creatures that Xander Harris dubs \"zompires\". However, at the end of Season Nine, after rogue slayer Simone Doffler's experiment to create an ultimate vampire upon the slayers who followed her, one slayer, Vicki, has risen as a vampire after Doffler's death who exhibits the abilities of immunity to sunlight and shape shifting. During the beginning of Season Ten, Vicki and the new breed of vampires she sired are shown to be as strong and able withstand a stake to the chest as Turok-Han, however exhibiting a new vulnerability to silver as werewolves.\n\nThe idea of the \"vamp faces\" — to have vampires' human features distort to become more demonic — was implemented because Whedon wanted to have high school students that the other characters could interact with normally. these would turn out be vampires, creating a sense of paranoia. He also wanted to make the vampires look demonic, stating, \"I didn't think I really wanted to put a show on the air about a high school girl who was stabbing normal-looking people in the heart. I thought somehow that might send the wrong message, but when they are clearly monsters, it takes it to a level of fantasy that is safer.\"\n\nIn early episodes, the vampires appeared \"very white-faced, very creepy, very ghoulish\". This was changed in later seasons to make the vampires look more human because of the sympathetic vampire character Angel and because elaborate make-up was time-consuming. Whedon said that people thought the white faces were \"funny looking\" but found it creepy, comparing it to the monsters in zombie movies such as \"Day of the Dead\" and \"The Evil Dead\". The character of the Master was designed to be in permanent vamp face to highlight his age and make him appear animalistic. Make-up artist John Vulich based the Master's appearance on a bat, saying that the character has devolved to a more primal, demonic state over the years.\n\nIt was decided that vampires and their clothes would turn to dust after they died. The introduction to one episode, \"The Wish\", parodied this vampiric trait; when Buffy kills a non-humanoid demon, Willow wonders why the demon corpse \"doesn't go poof\" and must be buried. Joss Whedon had the vampires explode into dust because it was practical, it demonstrates that they are monsters, he did not want a high school girl killing bad guys every episode and have them clean up bodies for 20 minutes, and it also \"looks really cool\".\n\nIn the first episode, vampires' clothes reflect the era in which they died. Joss Whedon felt this concept was a \"charming notion\" but rejected it because he believed that if every vampire in the show were dressed in old-fashioned clothes they would cease to be scary.\n\nWhen creating the vampire \"rules\" that they would use in the show, the writers used elements from existing vampire lore. They decided the vampires would not fly as in the \"Buffy\" movie because they could not make flying vampires look convincing on a television budget. Garlic is mentioned or used as vampire repellent in a few episodes, but its effect on vampires is never stated. Some established rules, such as a vampire's inability to enter a home uninvited, both helped and hindered the storytelling. Whedon said that whereas shows such as \"The X-Files\" spend time explaining the science behind the supernatural and making it as real as possible, \"Buffy\" and \"Angel\" are more concerned with the emotion resulting from these creatures and events than justifying how they could conceivably exist. The shows therefore tend to gloss over the details of vampire and demon lore, simply using the Hellmouth as a plot device to explain unexplainable things.\n\n\n"}
