{"id": "17158703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17158703", "title": "1986 Hvalur sinkings", "text": "1986 Hvalur sinkings\n\nThe 1986 Hvalur sinkings occurred in Iceland's Reykjavík harbour in November 1986, when anti-whaling activists from the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society sank the unoccupied whaling vessels, \"Hvalur 6\" and \"Hvalur 7\", and sabotaged a whale processing station in Hvalfjörður. The ships were two of the nation's fleet of four and were eventually raised, but have not gone on a whale hunt since and were dragged onto dry land. Repairs have not yet been made to the ships. The factory was the country's only processing facility.\n\nThe incident was an attempt by animal-rights activists to disrupt Iceland's whaling industry after the country circumvented a commercial ban on the practice to conduct research. No one was injured but the attack caused $2 million worth of damage to the ships, $2 million worth of damage to the processing plant, and damage to the whale meat freezer in the processing plant spoiled $4 million worth of whale meat. The perpetrators, Rod Coronado and David Howitt, were able to escape the scene via a flight to Luxembourg.\n\nA moratorium on commercial whaling was implemented by the International Whaling Commission in January 1986; the ban allowed for scientific whaling to continue. The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society direct-action environmentalist group wished to intervene in the whaling continued by Iceland, Norway, the Soviet Union, Japan, and the Faroe Islands. The government of Iceland believed that taking 120 whales in 1986 for research was vital to its fishing industry. In June 1986, the plan was formulated to sabotage Iceland's whaling industry with an emphasis on causing as much economic damage as possible with the intent to act when there was no threat to human life. The operation was delayed due to a summit in Reykjavík between the governments of the United States and the Soviet Union that October. One of the perpetrators, Rod Coronado, was also allegedly involved in an attack on Faroese whalers in June. \n\nSea Shepherd's Coronado and David Howitt flew into Reykjavík in October 1986. Howitt has also been named as David Howard, Nick Taylor or Martin Braidley. The pair stayed at a youth hostel and began covertly investigating the local whaling industry and it has been reported that they posed as tourists and took jobs at a fish factory. On 8 November, they traveled 50 miles to the nation's only whale processing station in Hvalfjörður, where they broke in at 8:00 pm. Sledgehammers, wrenches, and other common tools were used to systematically destroy computers, power generators, machinery, and windows. The large refrigeration unit used to freeze the season's catch was destroyed beyond repair and documentation at the facility was doused with acid. The main factory and two smaller buildings were left inoperable.\n\nCoronado and Howitt then returned to Reykjavik during the early hours of 9 November where three of the country's four whaling vessels were moored. The saltwater cooling valves in the engine room were opened at around 5:00 am, causing the ships to flood and sink within half an hour. The third whaler, \"Hvalur 8\", was not attacked since a watchman was aboard while the fourth was in drydock. The police did not arrive at the harbor until 7:00 am, and the attackers were able to flee the country via a 7:45 am flight to Luxembourg. They were subjects of a routine traffic stop en route to the airport but the police did not suspect them of any wrongdoing and let them continue on their way. In November the two 430-ton whaling vessels were raised from the harbor floor by a salvaging company. According to the whaling company, the attack caused $2 million worth of damage.\n\nShortly after, Watson took full responsibility for the operation, saying that he had planned it, had picked the team, and had seen that the attackers did their job. Prime Minister Steingrímur Hermannsson announced that Iceland was trying to find the men and criticised the police for the initial delay that allowed them to escape. Watson traveled to Iceland in 1988 to face prosecution as Sea Shepherd's leader where he was detained for 24 hours before being deported without cause. A spokesperson for Iceland's largest whaling company told \"The New Yorker\" that Watson is \"persona non grata\" in the country. With their escape, Coronado and Howitt have never been charged with any wrongdoing in Iceland. Both have admitted responsibility but the statute of limitations for the act has passed.\n\nAs a result of this incident, the International Whaling Commission revoked Sea Shepherd's observer status. Most environmentalists, though critical of Iceland's stand, distanced themselves from Sea Shepherd's violent tactics. An article in \"The New Yorker\" said that it was \"an act of sabotage that many conservationists believe helped turn Icelandic public opinion against the cause of saving whales\".\n\nThe international reactions were negative. The action had various descriptions such as an act of vandalism, an act of terrorism or the act of madmen. At the time of the incident, Iceland, Greenpeace International, and some media commentators in Iceland and North America referred to the sabotage as \"terrorism\" or \"terrorist\". Coronado responded to these comparisons by arguing that the sabotage was \"the farthest thing from terrorism\" and that whaling itself constituted terrorism. In a Canadian newspaper the incident was also cited as one of the first steps taken by Coronado in becoming \"a new breed of terrorist\" who went on to wage a wide-ranging battle for animal rights as a member of the Animal Liberation Front. Coronado has rejected the \"terrorist\" label as \"garbage\", because beginning with the \"Hvalur\" sinkings, \"he says he has always taken care that no one is physically hurt by his acts of sabotage\".\n"}
{"id": "49329064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49329064", "title": "66 Months", "text": "66 Months\n\n66 Months (long title: 66 Months under the Radar) is a 2011 United Kingdom documentary film directed by James Bluemel focusing on a homeless Nigel Fletcher surviving 6 years without government assistance. It was produced by Moving Target Films in association with Dartmouth Films and was first shown in 2011.\n\nFilmmaker Gordon Wilson was jobless and homeless when he attended a free workshop at Film Oxford on Catherine Street in Oxford. Inspired by the relationship between Gordon Wilson and his partner Robbie Burns, the film documents six years in the life of his friend Nigel Fletcher and took seven years to complete. Wilson had met and lived with Nigel Fletcher at a halfway house. Through scenes dealing with abuse, mental illness and alcoholism, the film tells the story of the two's friendship and shows the relationship between the pair. Burns died before the film was finished.\n\nAccording to the filmmakers:\n\"Every year, thousands of people slip through the net of social care provision into a dark, lonely and often dangerous underworld. Nigel is one of those people. Abandoned by those who should have been caring for him, abused and vulnerable Nigel lived under the radar of social services for 66 months. In this hostile environment, Nigel came to rely on Robbie, an alcoholic. Together they lived in poverty in the midst of the dreaming spires of Oxford. And so began their troubling, disturbing but genuinely loving relationship.\"\n\nAfter 66 months Nigel was finally picked up by social services and was provided with a secure and safe place to stay. Told from Nigel’s perspective, this film juxtaposes his present experience of institutional life with a series of memories and flashbacks from his time in the ‘wild’. The film was shot over six years and gives an extraordinary insight into a hidden world, made possible only by the close relationship between the filmmakers and contributors. Many difficult questions are raised about abusive relationships, mental illness and society’s duty of care. But this touching and very personal film reaches beyond these to provide an intimate and complex portrait of a dysfunctional relationship in which physical suffering is ultimately preferable to loneliness.\"\n\n\n\"The Argus\" praised the film, calling it \"A gritty documentary that ‘exposes the holes’ in Oxfordshire’s social care\" and the British Association of Social Workers described it as the “most heartbreaking, lacerating and uncomfortable film ever”.\n"}
{"id": "2188122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2188122", "title": "Alfred Sarant", "text": "Alfred Sarant\n\nAlfred Epaminondas Sarant, also known as Filipp Georgievich Staros and Philip Georgievich Staros (1918 – March 12, 1979), was an engineer and a member of the Communist party in New York City in 1944. He was part of the Rosenberg spy ring that reported to Soviet intelligence. Sarant worked on secret military radar at the United States Army Signal Corps laboratories at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey. Alexandre Feklisov, one of the KGB case officers who handled the Rosenberg spy apparatus described Sarant and Joel Barr as among the most productive members of the group. Sarant was recruited as a Soviet espionage agent by Barr.\n\nA member of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA) during the Second World War, Sarant worked at the nuclear physics laboratory of Cornell University. () In 1941, Julius Rosenberg and Joel Barr were recruited as Soviet spies by Jacob Golos. They in turn persuaded Sarant to join the network.\n\nAccording to Alexander Feklissov: \"Joel and Alfred were good friends and spent a lot of time together. I must admit that Sarant had the makings of an undercover agent; he was a cautious young man, yet full of resolve, with progressive ideas. Before we recruited him though, he had to pass a test. Barr asked Sarant to borrow some secret documents to which he had access because he, Barr, needed them for his personal use. Alfred did not hesitate in helping his friend and in the meantime the Center approved a bona fide approach.\" However, he was at first reluctant to become a spy but was eventually convinced to join the network by Barr. Sarant was given the code name Hughes.\n\nThe Venona project transcript of 14 November 1944 reported to Moscow that Sarant had been successfully recruited. The transcript noted Sarant and Barr were roommates and good friends and proposed to pair them off and get them to photograph their own materials. Initially Barr delivered film to Rosenberg, who passed it on to officers of the Soviet intelligence. Later, Barr met directly with KGB officers; Sarant did not have direct contact with the KGB in the U.S. One transcript reports Sarant and Barr delivered 17 authentic drawings relating to the AN/APQ-7, an advanced and secret airborne radar system developed jointly by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Western Electric for the United States military.\n\nIn 1946 Sarant moved to Ithaca, New York where he worked at Cornell University in the physics laboratories. Sarant's next door neighbor was Philip Morrison, a former Manhattan Project scientist and personal friend who joined the Communist Party of the United States in 1939. Sarant knew socially several prominent physicists, including Hans Bethe and Richard Feynman.\n\nTwo days after Julius Rosenberg's arrest on 17 July 1950, the FBI interviewed Sarant but did not arrest him, although it possessed decrypted MVD cables that clearly identified Sarant as a member of the Rosenberg ring. Three days later Sarant ran away with Carol Dayton, the wife of his close friend and neighbor, Bruce Dayton; Sarant and Dayton abandoned their children and spouses. The two crossed into Mexico and eluded the FBI.\n\nIn Mexico City, Sarant sought assistance from officials at an obscure Polish trade office, guessing correctly that they were intelligence officers. Following instructions from the KGB, the Poles hid Sarant and Dayton in Mexico, then engineered an escape that crossing the border to Guatemala on foot, taking a freighter to Casa Blanca, and flying to Poland via Spain. After six months in Warsaw they moved on to Moscow. The KGB arranged a dramatic reunion with Barr, who was summoned from Prague, where he had fled shortly after the Rosenberg ring started to unravel. Sarant was assigned a new identity, Philip Georgievich Staros, claiming a Canadian background to explain his accent. From Moscow, Barr and Sarant were resettled in Czechoslovakia and put to work as electrical engineers. They led a team that designed and built a prototype of the Soviet bloc's first automated anti-aircraft weapon. Their technology was quickly deployed and was in use, with some minor modifications, into the 1980s.\n\nIn 1956 Sarant and Barr moved to Leningrad where they were placed in charge of a military electronics research institute. They have been credited with being the founders of the Soviet microelectronics industry, in part because Sarant and Barr conceived of, designed and won political backing for the creation of Zelenograd, the Soviet Union's Silicon Valley. Sarant was the scientific director of Zelenograd until Nikita Khrushchev's forced retirement. In 1969 Sarant received a state honor for the UM-1, a computer that was widely used in Soviet industry. He led the team that created the Uzel, the first digital computer installed in a Soviet submarine. The Uzel was integrated into the Kilo-class submarines and as of 2007 was still in use in the Russian, Iranian, Chinese and Indian navies. In 1979 Sarant died of a heart attack. Carol Dayton, the woman who fled with him, returned to the United States in 1991.\n\nIt was not until 1983, thirty-three years after Sarant's flight to Mexico, that the full story of Sarant's life was told. A Russian émigré working at Harvard, Mark Kuchment, who had read \"The Rosenberg File\" linked Barr and Sarant to two prominent Soviet scientists, both native speakers of English.\n\nSarant's cover name in Soviet intelligence and in the Venona project is \"Hughes\".\n\nAlfred Sarant's two sons, Stephen Nonda Sarant and Jeremy Phillip Sarant and his two daughters, Tonya and Kristina Staros are all still alive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49418397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49418397", "title": "Anti-Tibetan Sentiment", "text": "Anti-Tibetan Sentiment\n\nAnti-Tibetan sentiment refers to fear, dislike, hostility and racism towards Tibetan people or anything related to Tibetan culture in general. Anti-Tibetan sentiment has been present in various regions of Nepal, India, Bhutan, and China at various points in time with discrimination in the latter three countries mostly owing to the presence of Tibetan refugees.\n\nTibetans and Himalayan ethnic groups of Tibetan origin such as the Sherpa, Tamang are at times derogatorily called \"bhotey\", which is the Nepali word for someone from Tibet, but is used as a slur. \n\nIn Arunachal Pradesh, a region bordering Tibet and is claimed by China as being South Tibet, there was a xenophobic campaign and a motion by the state government to expel around 12,000 Tibetans that received much support from the local population, but the Indian government was \"angered\" by the state government's initiatives.\n\nEven the Monpas, a people who are ethnically and culturally related to Tibetans, are opposed to Tibetan refugees in their state. \n\nThe government of Bhutan agreed to take in 4000 settlers, ordinary Bhutanese became increasingly resentful of the Tibetan refugees because of their refusal to assimilate into Bhutanese culture. \n\nTibetans are discriminated in China, even to where they are denied access into hotels.\n\n"}
{"id": "18366188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18366188", "title": "Beluch", "text": "Beluch\n\nBeluch or the Baloch of Turkmenistan are a small part of the greater Baloch people who live primarily in Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. They immigrated into the Merv and the Murghab River inland delta from the areas west and north of Herat, Afghanistan and Iran in the mid 19th century. More followed in the early 20th century and closure of the Russian/Soviet borders under Stalin in 1925.\n\nThe Mervi Beluch are closely related to those Baloch in Afghanistan and Iran who live nearly the modern borders of Turkmenistan. Today they are the only Iranian people remaining in the Merv Oasia, after the ancient Persian population of the area was deported on mass to Bukhara and Samarkand by the Manghit emir, Shah Murad in the late 1780s, because they belonged to Shia madhab. Except these Balochs, the entire ancient oasis is now Turkified, with the Turkmens forming a vast majority of the population.\n\nIn 1926 the Baluch of Merv Oasis numbered 9,974. Their numbers fell to 7,842 in the official statistics by 1959 but then rose to 12,582 by 1970 and 18,997 by 1979.\n\nThe Beluch are Sunni Hanafi Muslims.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2110804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110804", "title": "Black Donnellys", "text": "Black Donnellys\n\nThe \"Black\" Donnellys were an Irish family who emigrated to Ontario. Five of the family were murdered by an armed mob in the township of Lucan Biddulph in February 1880 and their farm was burned down, the culmination of long-standing conflict between the family and other residents. No one was convicted of the murders, despite two trials.\n\n\nThe Biddulph feud preceded the emigration of the Donnelly family from Ireland and continued for some 17 years after their deaths. However, from about 1857, the Donnelly family was inextricably bound up with the feud. The Biddulph feud had its origins in Ireland, and had begun almost two centuries before the elder James Donnelly's birth. It so happened through an accident of history, that Biddulph Township collected just the right concentration and distribution of Whiteboys, Blackfeet and Orangemen, to cause the feud to be rekindled.\n\nLike many communities in Ontario in the nineteenth century Biddulph and Lucan commonly dealt with numerous crimes ranging from the frivolous (using abusive language), to the more serious (robbery, assault), to the most grave crime of all—murder. But bringing criminals to justice was not easy. The majority of constables were untrained and others were, quite simply, criminals themselves. For a variety of reasons, the courts did not always hand out reasonable punishments.\n\nJames (Jim) and Johannah (or Judith/Judy as she was also known) married in Ireland in 1840. Not long after their union, James Jr was born. The Donnellys hoped to establish a prosperous homestead for themselves and the seven children who were born in Canada. The problem was that the property they chose to settle on did not legally belong to James, who had squatted on the land. It was originally owned by the Canada Company, and was granted to James Grace. A number of disputes ensued in which other settlers such as Michael Maher and Patrick Farrell became embroiled. This culminated at a neighbourhood logging bee in 1857, when Donnelly killed Farrell in a fight.\n\nThere was an attempt to remove the Donnellys through the legal system:\n\nIn the spring of 1847, James Donnelly Sr squatted on land owned by an absentee landlord, who had originally bought the land from the Canada Company. It is not known if James Donnelly actually knew the piece of wilderness he had decided upon was owned by anyone. Squatting was a common North American frontier practice often supported by the courts in the establishment of common law property rights.\n\nIn 1856 or 1857, Patrick Farrell bought land in the quarter James Donnelly had squatted on, and was surprised to discover Donnelly in occupation once he arrived from Ireland to take possession of his land. The matter went to court in 1857, with Farrell wishing to evict Donnelly. The disputants eventually agreed to allow Donnelly to keep and reside on of the land, which was somewhat less than what Donnelly had cleared over the 10 years he had occupied it.\n\nFarrell, in spite of his agreement in court, vocally lambasted the Donnellys in public. During a barn raising bee on Saturday, June 27, 1857, James Donnelly and Farrell fought. Farrell, who had attacked Donnelly with a handspike, suffered a blow to the head from a handspike thrown by Donnelly in self-defence. Pat Farrell died on June 29, and James Donnelly then became a wanted man. (\"Farrell's young son was adopted by the Donnellys, and was brought up by them until adulthood\".) Almost two years later, James turned himself in to Jim Hodgins, a sympathetic Justice of the Peace.\n\nJames was sentenced to be hanged on September 17, 1859. A petition for clemency started by his wife Johannah saw his sentence reduced to seven years in Kingston Penitentiary.\n\nThe Donnelly Stagecoach Line is believed to have been started May 24, 1873 by William Donnelly and was a huge success. The line of stages, which ran between London, Lucan and Exeter, was operated by William and his brothers Michael, John, and Thomas, even rivaling the official mail stage that had been in business since 1838.\n\nThe Hawkshaw stage line soon felt the pressure of competition from the Donnellys. In October 1873, Hawkshaw sold his stage to Patrick Flanagan, a husky Irishman, who was determined to drive Donnellys out of business.\n\nThis set the stage for the feud between the Donnelly Stagecoach and the Flanagan & Crawly Stage — the Stagecoach Feud, as it came to be known. Stages were either smashed or burned, horses were savagely beaten or killed, and stables burned to the ground.\n\nThe violence that erupted as a result of the Stagecoach Feud was mostly blamed on the Donnellys and gave the family a bad reputation. From that time on, almost every crime committed was blamed on the family, but although they were charged with numerous crimes, \"few convictions were secured against them\".\n\nIn the buildup towards the murder of the family, the Donnellys became well acquainted with local law enforcement. There are various accounts of assault, arson, trespassing, verbal assault, attempted murder, murder of Patrick Farrell, theft, robbery, assaulting a police officer, as well as various altercations with many residents of the Biddulph Township. \"The Donnellys were not found guilty of everything of which they were accused but through their actions they made many enemies within the township. This all sounds like the Donnellys were a constant source of strife and destruction in their community, but these types of crimes were common for the county in which they lived. It was not just the men of the family who would get into altercations with the law as Johannah was noted to swear at officers quite often, specifically Constable Carroll.\"\n\nIn June 1879 Father John Connolly created a Peace Society/Association in Biddulph. He asked people who attended St. Patrick's Roman Catholic Church to pledge their support. Members of the society agreed to have their homes searched for stolen property. The Donnellys did not sign the pledge. The Vigilance Committee formed out of the Peace Society.\nEvidence indicates that The Biddulph Peace Society or some of its individual members may have been responsible for some of the arson, property damage and physical violence cases in Biddulph.\n\nJohn Connolly was reported to be preaching hatred against Protestants when James stood up in the church and denounced the priest for his hatred, and said his family would from that time go to the Catholic Church in London. The Donnellys had many Protestant friends, many of whom attended their funeral. London Free Press archives. Connolly is reported to have formed the Vigilance Committee that killed the Donnellys.\n\nThe Peace Society's role was to uphold its Code, something the Donnellys were never shy about ignoring. James Donnelly was liberal enough that at one point he even donated money to the building of an Anglican church, outraging the Biddulph Peace Society in the process.\nIn August 1879 a splinter group of the Peace Society began meeting at the Cedar Swamp Schoolhouse in Biddulph. James Carroll was part of the group, as were many of the neighbours of the Donnellys. This group became known as the Vigilance Committee/Society. The Committee was blamed for the murders of the Donnellys.\n\nMembers of the Vigilance Committee allegedly gathered at the Cedar Swamp Schoolhouse late in the evening of February 3, 1880, before proceeding to the Donnelly homestead.\nWilliam Donnelly survived and was listed as the informant on the death certificates for all five, dated April 1 and 2, 1880, with the cause of death listed as \"supposed to be murdered.\"\n\nThere were many feuds associated with the reason behind the death of the Donnellys, however what was considered to be the \"final straw\" is the accusation against the Donnellys of the burning down of Patrick Ryder's barn. After these accusations were created, the community had \"enough\" of the Donnellys and decided to take the law into their own hands once they heard that there was no supporting evidence linking the Donnellys to the burning of the barn. This news reached the congregation of St. Patrick's Church and the priest addressed that an \"evil had fallen among the community\" and that there would be a reward of five hundred dollars for the \"detection of the wicked persons\" and he vowed that the \"guilty party\" would be punished for their sins. There were many considerations as to what was the right form of punishments; some believed fines and jail time would be deemed acceptable, however others believed that their heads would be the perfect form of punishment.\n\nBig Jack Kennedy, William Feeheley, Pat Dewan, Dennis, Anthony and Michael Heenan, John Lanphier, James Harrigan, Ryders (Mr. Ryder, Jim, Patrick, Jr., \"Sideroad\"Jim, Thomas and Daniel), Martin and John McLaughlin, Ted Toohey, John Cain, James Mahers, John and Patrick Quigley, Patrick Breen, James McGrath, John Purtell, Michael Blake, John, Ned and Johnny Ryan, William Thompson, John Darsey, John Bruin, Michael Madigan, James Kenny and finally James Carroll\nThe original plan that was generated by the Peace Society was to visit the Donnelly’s family home on the night of February 3rd. The plan was to handcuff the Donnelly men and then escort them from the home, where they would be hanged from a tree by their neck until they confessed their crimes against the community. However one of the problems with their plan was that no one really understood how this would be properly executed, therefore this allowed for the plan to be changed or challenged when they arrived on the Donnelly property. In the beginning their original intent was to only \"hurt\" the Donnellys and to \"bring them as near the dissolution point as possible.\" The Peace Society did set up a surveillance of the Donnelly property as a form of preparation in order to determine who was in the home at what times and how they would enter the property in the dark; Jim Feeheley was considered to be one of the spies. Jim Feeheley would visit the Donnelley house earlier in the night as a distraction and to get an understanding on the type of situation they would be encountering that night. There were some more problems associated with these plan such as, the society did not plan on Jon Donnelly leaving the Donnelly home and taking his horse to Big Jim Keefe, the society thought Big Jim Keefe was spying for them and finally they did not plan for Johnny O’Connor to be in the house during the attack.\n\nIt can be said that the day of February 3, began like any other day in the Donnelly household. In the morning, James Donnelly sat down at the kitchen table with his son Tom Donnelly and asked him to write a letter to Alderman Edmund Meredith; the London lawyer that was going to be handling the Donnellys' case against Patrick Ryder. He wrote;\n\nOnce the letter was delivered, the day carried on as it normally would; at roughly 4 o'clock Johnny, James and Jim returned to their house on Roman Line. This time frame was given by William Casey because he stated that he remembered the sound of the Donnellys speeding down Roman Line and that they were being \"reckless.\" Casey stopped what he was doing in the front yard, to bear witness to this recklessness that was occurring as well as it was at this point where he noticed the time at which they passed by his home. They had pick up Johnny O'Connor from town, because James Donnelly needed assistance on the farm; this was a normal occurrence. When the chores where completed it was Mr. Donnelly that insisted that Johnny O'Connor stay the night and to sleep in Mr. Donnellys bed as a form of protection as well as the bed was extremely big. As the Donnellys were getting ready for bed, Feeheley stopped by to say \"hello\" before returning home from Whalen's. Feeheley did not stay long; he was just there to observe the property for the Peace Society; however he did not notice that the John Donnelly voice he thought he heard coming from Mr. Donnelly's bedroom was actually Johnny O'Connor voice. However, John Donnelly had gone to Big Jim Keefe to pick up the vehicle in order to travel to their trial in London, Ontario in the morning; he stayed there over night. Once goodbyes, were said the family returned to their bed and fell asleep.\n\nOnce the decision to attack the Donnellys was made, the Peace Society got together at roughly one o’clock in the morning to drink before they mounted the attack on this family; this is referred to as the \"water of life.\" The men used the liquor as a way to numb their senses as well as use it as a way to enhance their courage and their motivation. Once the men had enough alcohol in their system, they began to walk in the direction of the Donnellys' home; there were also many witnesses that stated they could hear the group of men coming down Roman Line that night. When the group of men finally arrived at the house, they surrounded the perimeter of the property and James Carroll took the first step inside the house, which was considered to be the first attack of the massacre; creating an element of surprise. Carroll walked into the room and slowly took the handcuffs out of his pocket (these were given to him by the Constable Hodgins) and handcuffed Tom Donnelly while he was still asleep. Once Tom Donnelly was handcuffed, Carroll did proclaim that \"he was under arrest,\" and at that moment Tom sat up in bed as well as Ms. Donnelly and Bridget Donnelly due to all the commotion. Carroll slowly moved from Tom's bedroom into Mr. Donnelly's bedroom, where he noticed that John Donnelly was nowhere to be found; their plan was to kill all the Donnellys in a single location. This commotion woke up Mr. Donnelly and he noticed that his son was handcuffed and proclaimed \"what have you got against us now?\" Carroll responded that they were being charged with another crime. At that moment in time, Tom requested that Carroll read the warrant; since there was no warrant involved, Carroll let out a signal for the men to come storming into the house with their clubs. At this point, the men were beginning to beat Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Donnelly and Tom Donnelly; Bridget Donnelly was able to escape and race up the stairs in order to hide from her attackers. Johnny was so terrified that he hid underneath of Mr. Donnelly's bed; since the men were not expecting him to be there that night, they did not know to look for him as a witness. The first one to fall to the ground was Mr. Donnelly; he was beaten rapidly and James Maher hit his skull repeatedly causing brain damage; Mrs. Donnelly on the other hand, fought hard against her attackers. However she was eventually beaten to the ground by Carroll and Tom Donnelly was fighting extremely hard to protect his family as well as himself; he broke free from the attacks and ran towards the front door, as he was running, Tom Ryder was waiting for him with a pitchfork and thrust the sharp points into Tom multiple times. Once Tom was limp on the ground, James Maher, Timothy Toohey and Patrick Quigley carried his body back into the house and placed it in the kitchen with his parents as well as Carroll removed his handcuffs from his wrist.\n\n\"Hit this fellow on the head with that shovel and break his head open!\" \nIt was said that either Jim Toohey or Patrick Quigley bashed Tom's head in three or four times.\n\nOnce Mr. Donnelly, Ms. Donnelly and Tom Donnelly were all laying on the ground, the men realized that Bridget Donnelly was nowhere to be found.\nA group of men went up stairs and found Bridget hiding and they began to beat her to the point where they were able to bring her limp body down the stairs to where the rest of her family was located. To increase the amount of blood that was shed in a single household, one of the men bashed in the dog's head with a shovel because it would not stop barking. After the group realized that they were missing John Donnelly, they decided to create another plan for that night to rid their community of the Donnellys; they lit the house on fire with the bodies still inside and went hunting for John.\n\nGuns, pitchfork (Tom Ryder), axe (Purtell), shovel (Pat Quigley and Tim Toohey), clubs and shortened woken stake made of cordwood.\n\nOriginally the massacre was not intended to have any witnesses, however the Peace Society did not intend for Johnny O’Connor to be at the Donnelly's farmhouse and for him to escape the fire. Johnny O’Connor was a young farm boy that had gone to the Donnelly's house to assist them with farm work; it wasn’t until later in the night when Mr. Donnelly had encouraged Johnny to spend the night and assist them with the livestock in the morning. The O’Connors were considered to be good friends of the Donnellys and assisted them regularly with chores around their farm; the mob did not take this into consideration when planning their attack.\n\nAt roughly two in the morning, the Peace Society arrived at the Whalen's corner; they surrounded the house, in a similar way as they did to the Donnelly's house. However, the difference was the men were not as relaxed as they were in the beginning and they decided to try to get Will Donnelly to come out of the house, instead of storming into the house; they beat his prized stallion in order to lure him out of house from his dying horse's screams. The problem was that the stables were far from the home and no one inside was able to hear what was going on outside, Jim Ryder called for \"Will!\" while carrying a shotgun to the side door of the house. Will Donnelly woke up from the calling for his name, however it was John that opened the door to Will's house and was greeted by gun shots to the chest and groin; thirty holes were placed in his chest that pierced his lung, broke his collarbone and several ribs. John dropped to the ground; McLaughlin and Ryder walked up to the body and placed seven more shots into John as a form of punishment for his action against the community. Norah Donnelly (Will Donnelly's wife) heard the commotion as well as saw John's body on the ground, she tried to pull his body to safety but it was too heavy to move. Will Donnelly hid in the bedroom and was able to peer through a window in order to get a glimpse of the individuals who were attacking the house; John Kennedy and Carroll were only a few feet away from the bed where he was hiding with his wife. He could also place the faces of Big Mike Heenan, William Carroll and Patrick Ryder; the others faces were blurred by darkness. Since Norah could not pull John to safety, Hogan got down on his knees and snuck out to where John was located and pulled him into the bedroom, which left a bloody trail behind him (John Donnelly died five minutes after). The men of the Peace Society were so worn out from their previous attacks that they decided to just survey the perimeter until someone showed their face inside; the members of the household hid in the house for almost three hours before the group decided to leave the property.\n\n\"There's been enough bloodshed tonight boys. Let's go home.\"\n\nThese words spoken by Jim Feeheley ended the massacre, which would have continued to Big Jim Keefe's house.\n\nThere were two trials in London, Ontario, at the courthouse on Ridout Street.\n\nThe preliminary hearings started on February 4, 1880 at McLean's Hotel in Lucan, Ontario. There were three preliminary hearings leading up to the first trial in October 1880. In between the preliminary hearings and the trial, there was a change of venue request, which was ultimately rejected. The crown felt that a fair trial could not be obtained in Middlesex County, as it was too biased against the Donnellys. One of the key witnesses for the prosecution was Johnny O’Conner, who had witnessed the whole massacre. The vigilantes did everything in their power to try to keep Johnny from testifying. Michael O’Conner, Johnny's father, owned two houses on Francis Street, in Lucan. One of the houses was known to have run a bootlegging operation at times, the other house he rented to Bob Donnelly. During the late evening of April 13, the vigilantes burnt the house of O’Conner to the ground. The vigilantes harassed not only the father, but also Johnny's mother, Mary: while she was in London, on one occasion when she passed Patrick \"Grouchy\" Ryder on the street, he threatened and insulted her. She laid a charge against him of using abusive language. At his court appearance, fellow vigilantes swore that he was in Biddulph at the time of the alleged infraction, and this led to his discharge. Young Johnny was not deterred from testifying by any of the group's activities.\n\nThe trial took place on Monday, October 4, 1880 in London, Ontario, with James Carrol being charged with the murder of Johannah Donnelly. The crown prosecutor was Aemilius Irving assisted by James MaGee; the defense consisted of Hugh MacMahon, William Meredith and John Blake. The witness list for the prosecution was as follows; William Donnelly, Nora Donnelly, Martian Hogan, William Blackwell Hock M.D., William Williams, Enoch Murphy, James Feeley, Robert Rojs, John O’Conner, Patrick Whelan, Anne Whelan, Mary Hastings O’Conner, Michael O’Conner, Charles Pope, William Hodge, Henry Phair, and Martin Hogan Jr. The two key witnesses were Johnny O’Conner and William Donnelly. Johnny O’Conner's testimony ran, in part: \n\nTom told him to read the warrant: Carroll said there was lots of time for that: then in a few minutes a whole crowd jumped in and commenced hammering them with sticks and spade; then Tom ran out into the front room and outside: I saw him run out and Bridget ran upstairs and I ran after her and she shut the door and I ran back again in the room and got under the bed behind the clothes basket: then they started hammering Tom outside: the bed was about two feet and an inch high from the floor and no curtains about the bottom of the bed: they carried Tom in the house again: I heard them throw him down on the floor, and heard the handcuffs rattling or whatever they had on his hand: then someone said, \"Hit that fellow with a spade and break his skull open.\" Then the fellow hit his three or four whacks with the spade: when Tom was outside I heard him say, \"Oh! Oh! Oh!\" I did not see them hit Tom with the spade, but heard them; then some of them told the fellow that had the light to bring it here to where Tom was: he brought the light and they were doing something to Tom: they were standing round him: I saw the standing round him: then I saw Thomas Ryder and John Purtell standing near the room door, the bedroom door; then some of them asked where was the girl; another one answered, \"Look upstairs\"; then they went upstairs and saw some of them too, but did not know any of them; then they came down: I heard nothing going on upstairs, and poured coal oil on the bed and set it on fire; it was the bed I was under; I heard someone say that oil would burn off the blanket, and wouldn’t burn at all; then they all run out when they set fire to it; then I got out from under the bed and put on my pants and tried to quench the fire with my coat; I hit the fire with my coat: I then heard Tom breathing, then I went out to the front room and saw Tom dead on the floor; then I ran out to the kitchen and tramped on the old women; there was a light from the fire in my bed, also from Tom’s bed: the door of Tom’s room was open, and the door from the front room into the kitchen: the old women was lying between the door from the front room into the kitchen and the kitchen door going outside; I then ran out and went over to Whalen’s, Pat Whalen, and rapped at Whalen’s door. \n\nHe then went to explain what James Carroll, Thomas Ryder and John Purtell were wearing that night. \"Purtell had dark clothes, Ryder a peaked cap, and Carroll had grey pants; their faces were not blackened: I saw one man with his face blackened, and a long coat on, a middling sized man; Carroll saw me in bed, he looked right at me, and I saw him looking right at me for a while; he did not speak to me: I did not see anyone strike the Donnellys, I only heard them.\"\n\nWilliam Donnelly was another key witness for the prosecution. Here is his testimony. \n\nI was disturbed about half past two by John coming out of his room through my room to the kitchen; he couldn’t go to the kitchen without going through my room; I didn’t speak to John, he said I wonder whose hollering fire and rapping the door, he kept right on and opened the door; when John opened the door going into the kitchen from my room, I heard them holler, \"Fire! Fire! Open the door Will!\" I heard them shouting as soon as I was thoroughly awakened; I heard the door opened; I then heard two shots in rapid succession almost together; John fell back against the door from my bedroom to the kitchen; the distance between the kitchen door and my bedroom is about six or seven feet; his head came down to the jam of the door; I was lying next to the door with the glass top: my wife was sleeping on the outside: there is a stove close to the bed: I turned the side of the blind and looked out: I saw John Kennedy, James Carroll and James Ryder: they were partly in front of the glass window: Kennedy was standing where his name is now marked on the plan about three feet from the door: James Carroll and James Ryder were standing where their names are written on the plan about nine feet from my window: I saw three others outside of the fence, near to the little gate: I calculated that they were Wm. Carroll, Patrick Ryder Jr., and Michael Heenan: I couldn’t swear positively to them; I don’t speak positively as to them; I speak positively as to John Kennedy, James Carroll and James Ryder; these persons are well known to me.\n\nThe defence witnesses were friends and family of the vigilante community, and backed the stories and alibis of each of the members that stood trial. John Purtell, one of the prisoners stated that he was not a member of the committee and had never attended any of the meetings. Instead he was a hired man of James McGrath's and lived with him and never left the house that night. James and his father Matthew backed his story. Prisoner Thomas Ryder said he was a brother of Patrick \"Grouchy\" Ryder and that he spent the night at home playing cards with his brother-in-law Valentine Mackey, his brother James Ryder Sr., and James Toohey. Those named agreed that they played cards and went home to their own places. Prisoner James Ryder Jr. said that he and his five brothers - William, Michael, Patrick Jr., John and Maurice - all spent the night at their father's house . Vigilante Michael Blake said that he also had spent the night there. Prisoner Martin McLaughlin's daughter, Temperance, backed her father's story that he never left the house. Prisoner John Kennedy said he went to Denis Carty's, along with William Hodgins and James Brien for a game of cards. They all left together about 9:15 p.m. Each testified to the same account, with Brien adding that he visited Kennedy at 2:00 a.m. the same night to borrow medicine for a sick family member.\n\nAfter a four and a half hour parley, the foreman of the jury announced that there was no chance of an agreement on a final verdict. One juror declared that he would not have convicted Carroll even if he had seen the killings himself. Another said he did not want to convict Carroll on Johnny O’Conner's word alone. The rest voted for acquittal out of fear for the dozens of others involved. In the end, one jury member was undecided, seven wanted to acquit, and four wanted to convict, resulting in a hung jury.\n\nThe second trial of James Carroll was overseen by Justice Matthew Crook Cameron, who was described as an \"old Tory mugwump\" and past leader of the Ontario Conservative Party. Like Justice J.W. Meredith, he steered the trial to ensure an acquittal of Carroll on February 2, 1881. James Reaney compares the two trials, noting how much smaller the second one seemed and that it lacked the legal conjecture and maneuvering that had marked the first trial.\n\nBefore the trial the lawyers for both sides, Irving and Hutchinson, agreed to keep the trial date close to the New Year so that the jury pool would not have time to be tainted by either side. Nevertheless, the jury consisted entirely of Protestants ruling on an Irish Catholic defendant. The lawyers also agreed to drop William Donnelly's testimony about the death at Whalen's Corners, as it was decided it would not be necessary until the potential trials of five other defendants, which would only take place if James Carroll were convicted.\n\nReaney comes to the conclusion that the prosecution side was hampered throughout the trial as their only hard evidence was the testimony of young O’Conner. While the boy did an admirable job of recollecting the events in a clear manner, Justice Cameron's continual sustaining of the defense's objections hindered the prosecution. This leads Reaney and others to conclude that Cameron was steering the trial in the defense's favor. As a result, much of the evidence that the prosecution presented to help the boy's account was not admitted. Cameron accepted the defense's assertion that the testimony from the O’Conner boy was unreliable and instructed the jury as such, thus giving the prosecution little chance of securing a guilty verdict. This applied in particular to the question of what Johnny O’Conner could have seen if the valances on the bed had been in position. His declaration that they had been removed became a point of debate within the trial, as the London Advertiser recalls. Justice Cameron's instruction to the jury that Johnny's testimony was unreliable eliminated the hard evidence the prosecution needed.\n\nIn the cross-examination of the boy, the defence tried to trip him up on his answers, but the jury and those present in the court room seemed to believe him. As the Toronto Globe accounts, \"His answers were, as a rule, given very promptly and with a fearlessness that did him credit… looking straight into the face of the Crown counsel, seldom looking elsewhere.\" Hugh McMahon questioned Johnny next, first about the gold watch that he was wearing and secondly about the fact that his christened name was Jeremiah and that he was actually 15 years old as records in St. Patrick's parish had indicated. This was to try and discredit the boy's testimony and bring the jury to doubt the reliability of the other testimony. Johnny's godmother came to the rescue regarding his name, explaining that he was christened both Johnny and Jeremiah at birth. Trying to get the courtroom to doubt the boy's testimony never worked for the defence, as most believed he was telling the truth.\n\nWhat fatally weakened the prosecution was the testimony of his mother. The defence persuaded Justice Cameron that the boy's testimony was obtained under duress, as a result of his mother's wanting more money. Justice Armour had rejected this notion in the first trial, but Cameron's decision to accept it meant that the prosecution had little chance. Mrs. O’Conner's testimony fell apart when she failed to accurately tell her boy's correct age, and she was also unable to give a clear explanation for her recent trip to Toronto to visit with the Deputy Attorney General. McMahon used this to show the jury that she was trying to secure more money for the boy's testimony, because her family was struggling to survive after their house had been burnt down. This made her lose her temper and she arrived on the stand already upset after a dispute with fellow witness Mrs. Pat Whalen. She should have explained clearly that her family did need more money and that the provincial bureaucrats were unwilling to provide this, and that was unrelated to the Crown prosecution. Reaney speculates that the bureaucrats did not want to aid a friend of the Donnellys. Mrs. O’Conner's testimony did not go over well and ended any chances the prosecution might have had, with judge, jury and public opinion already at least leaning if not outright against them.\n\nAfter this, much of the same evidence was presented as at the first trial with the same results, with Michael Donnelly maintaining that the valances on the bed had been removed by the time he woke. At the conclusion of the trial the jury convened for three hours before returning a verdict of not guilty. Irving recalled that the jurors before their final meeting had asked whether there was any way Carroll would not be hanged if found guilty and he had responded, \"No.\" This seems to have been the deciding factor ensuring a not guilty verdict.\n\nThe reporters' description of the various witnesses showed that they believed the Donnelly brothers, William and Patrick, to be intelligent, well spoken individuals, and the press had a hard time believing their family were the ruffians the evidence made them out to be. In contrast the press described Carroll and the others as a \"bunch of envious, dangerous, backwoodsmen\" who had a sinister appearance to them. This characterization by the press and their account ensured that while the Donnellys would not get justice in the courtroom, their story would eventually prevail.\n\nThe fact that the community and trial were strongly polarized along religious lines was a factor in the outcome and in the decisions of the judges and lawyers throughout the case. Orlo Miller in his book goes on to implicate the Biddulph Peace Society and members of other societies like the Whiteboys and their influence on the decisions of those in the courtroom. This combined with the lack of hard evidence left the prosecution with no chance of securing a guilty verdict, and possibly not wanting one because of the backlash that could have taken place. Even the crown attorney Charles Hutchinson had written to Aemilius Irving stating that trying to secure a guilty verdict was a \"waste of time and money,\" because of the negative feelings toward the Donnellys in the Middlesex county.\n\nThe publication of Thomas Kelley's \"The Black Donnellys\" in 1954 generated much interest in the case. The family tombstone, with the inscription \"murdered\" was the focus of curiosity and vandalism. Public access to the St. Patrick's Cemetery was denied. Remaining descendants of Donnelly family eventually chose to have the original tombstone replaced.\n\nToday the Donnellys are widely known in Canadian folklore, and the story of their murder is told throughout Canadian and American farming communities. However, despite the popularity of the Donnelly story throughout North America, the inhabitants of Lucan and Biddulph Township have tried to suppress the subject. Up until recently, even among those who were born and raised in the Lucan area, many had never heard the story of the Donnelly massacre until they were adults. Oral accounts of the murders were purportedly suppressed locally due to the number of residents who had ancestors who were directly involved in the circumstances.\n\nIn recent years, several newcomers to the area have started businesses centred on the Donnelly story, creating tourism venues for visitors fascinated by the events surrounding their deaths, much to the dismay of older inhabitants. One of the more well known of these myths is that of the Midnight Lady who supposedly rides up and down the Roman Line every February 4. Another is that the ghosts of the murdered family members can be seen floating in the fields near the murder site and that horses will not ride past the former Donnelly homestead after midnight.\n\nRay Fazakas best illustrates the situation in his book, when he states that despite the fact that the Donnellys have been removed from Biddulph, they have managed to remain alive thanks to Canadian folklore.\n\nWhile for many years the story of the Donnelly massacre \"was\" suppressed in the town of Lucan, in 1995 the Lucan and Area Heritage Society formed to celebrate the heritage of the Lucan area by gathering local, historical artifacts. Over the next few years, interest in the area's heritage increased within the community, and so the collection continued to grow. In 1998, the museum acquired an 1850s log cabin with a very similar floor plan to that of the Donnelly homestead, making it a dramatic setting for visitors to hear the retelling of the Donnelly story, and visualize the tragic events that occurred in the early morning hours of February 4, 1880.\n\nThe Lucan Area Heritage Society, District Lion's Club, and Township of Lucan Biddulph raised over $600,000 for the construction of a new museum building after the University of Western Ontario identified the need for a new museum to spur economic growth in the community. This building reached completion in 2008, and opened to the public in 2009. The new Lucan Area Heritage & Donnelly Museum now highlights the Ray Fazakas Donnelly Collection, rotating exhibits, the \"Donnelly Log Cabin\", and the Hearn barn, which displays a variety of artifacts relating to agriculture in Biddulph in the past 150 years.\n\nStompin' Tom Connors wrote two songs in reference to the Donnelly family: \"The Black Donnellys' Massacre\" and \"Jenny Donnelly\", the latter of which was covered by Chantal Vitalis.\n\nThe Donnellys are one of the subjects of Steve Earle's song \"Justice in Ontario\", (the other subject being a 1978 motorcycle gang murder in Port Hope, Ontario).\n\nGene MacLellan sings a song called \"Death of the Black Donnellys\" on his album \"Lonesome River\", which refers to the Donnellys as Satan's spawn and their killers \"...send them back to Hell\".\n\nIn the 1980s, the London, Ontario punk band The Black Donnellys formed, taking their name from this infamous feud.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Doty wrote \"The Donnelly Trials\", a play he based on the court script where twelve members of the audience become the jury deciding the fate of the defendants with the script providing two separate endings for either a \"Guilty\" or \"Not Guilty\" verdict. The play was performed in the same courtroom in which the actual trial took place.\n\nIn 2007, an NBC television series entitled \"The Black Donnellys\" followed the lives of four Irish brothers and their entrance into organized crime in Hell's Kitchen, New York City. The title is a homage to the infamous family, though the show is otherwise not related to the historical Donnellys.\n\nIn 2012, on October 26 and 27, the Waterford Heritage and Agricultural Museum hosted \"Moonlight & Mayhem ~ The Murder of Michael Donnelly\". This was an outdoor, after dark, theatrical production recreating the gruesome murder of Michael Donnelly which happened at the Commercial Hotel in Waterford. It was a guided walking tour presented twice nightly.\n\nIn 2013, \"The Donnellys\" ran from April 11 until April 20. It was presented by the Owen Sound Little Theatre at the Roxy Theatre in Owen Sound, Ontario. It was a musical drama by Peter Colley and directed by Corry Lapointe.\n\nIn 2015, running from March 7 to 29 at the Citadel Theatre in Edmonton, Catalyst Theatre's production of Vigilante, Jonathan Christenson as writer/director/composer/lyricist. The play is also touring in early 2017.\n\nIn 2017 it was filmed by Aaron Huggett in Ontario, Canada, screenings will be in October 2017.\n\nBlack Donnelly's Brewing Company is based in Mitchell, Ontario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2069455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069455", "title": "Bocas del Toro Creole", "text": "Bocas del Toro Creole\n\nBocas del Toro Patois, or Panamanian Patois English, is a dialect of Jamaican Patois spoken in Bocas del Toro Province, Panama. Bocas del Toro Patois is a dialect of Jamaican Patois similar to Central American varieties such as Limón Coastal Patois. It does not have the status of an official language. It was pejoratively known as \"guari-guari.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "33353034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33353034", "title": "Chinese people in Ethiopia", "text": "Chinese people in Ethiopia\n\nThe number of Chinese residents in Ethiopia has risen considerably in the past decade.\n\nFigures provided by different sources from the Chinese embassy in Addis Ababa show a wide variance in population estimates. According to an article in the academic journal World Development, a Chinese diplomat in Ethiopia interviewed in December 2014 stated there were 20,000 Chinese while in contrast the Chinese ambassador in Addis Ababa stated there were 60,000 Chinese in a January 2016 public interview. The community is largely involved in commerce with some working in telecom or railway construction and others owning businesses. The Chinese ambassador La Yifan credited the Chinese community with creating one million local jobs. \n\nAlso in 2007, the first 300 volunteers selected from among 10,000 applicants to a new Chinese government programme arrived in Ethiopia, Seychelles, and Zimbabwe. They would perform a variety of work including teaching Chinese, introducing hospital staff to traditional Chinese medicine, and aiding in poultry farming.\n\nLike in many African countries, the Chinese are seen as keeping to themselves. In 2007, another \"New York Times\" report by Howard French on Chinese in Ethiopia noted the \"clannish\" social interaction of Chinese by citing a communal compound of 200 Chinese workers for Road and Bridge Construction (a Chinese construction company) who ate Chinese food, got health care from a Chinese doctor, and did not interact with outsiders.\n\nA landmark incident in Chinese perceptions of Ethiopia was the 2007 Abole oil field raid in which 74 workers including 9 from China were killed. The rebels in the attack claimed that the target was the Ethiopian military and the Chinese were killed in explosions during the fighting. Howard French of \"The New York Times\" called the incident part of the learning curve for Chinese in understanding the risks of interaction in Africa but not a setback that would deter the Chinese from realizing that Africa would be \"the stage where China's image as a global actor of the first rank will be forged.\"\n\nThe Chinese Chamber of Commerce in Ethiopia (埃塞俄比亚中国商会) was established in April 2008 in Addis Ababa.\n"}
{"id": "7818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7818", "title": "Consumer", "text": "Consumer\n\nA consumer is a person or organization that use economic services or commodities.\n\nThe consumer is the one who pays something to consume goods and services produced. As such, consumers play a vital role in the economic system of a nation. Without consumer demand, producers would lack one of the key motivations to produce: to sell to consumers. The consumer also forms part of the chain of distribution.\n\nRecently in marketing instead of marketers generating broad demographic profiles and Fisio-graphic profiles of market segments, marketers have started to engage in personalized marketing, permission marketing, and mass customization.\n\nLargely due to the rise of the Internet, consumers are shifting more and more towards becoming \"prosumers\", consumers who are also producers (often of information and media on the social web), influence the products created (e.g. by customization, crowdfunding or publishing their preferences), actively participate in the production process, or use interactive products.\n\nThe law primarily uses a notion of the consumer in relation to consumer protection laws, and the definition of consumer is often restricted to living persons (i.e. not corporations or businesses) and excludes commercial users. A typical legal rationale for protecting the consumer is based on the notion of policing market failures and inefficiencies, such as inequalities of bargaining power between a consumer and a business. As all potential voters are also consumers, consumer protection has a clear political significance.\n\nConcern over the interests of consumers has spawned consumer activism, where organized activists do research, education and advocacy to improve the offer of products and services. Consumer education has been incorporated into some school curricula. There are also various non-profit publications, such as \"Which?\", \"Consumer Reports\" and \"Choice Magazine\", dedicated to assist in consumer education and decision making.\n\nIn India, the Consumer Protection Act 1986 differentiates the consummation of a commodity or service for personal use or to earn a livelihood. Only consumers are protected per this act and any person, entity or organization purchasing a commodity for commercial reasons are exempted from any benefits of this act.\n\n"}
{"id": "41286834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41286834", "title": "Corruption in Latvia", "text": "Corruption in Latvia\n\nCorruption in Latvia is examined on this page.\n\nAccording to several sources, the Latvian political system faces serious corruption. The influence of private interests involved in illegal political party funding undermines the efforts to combat political corruption. According to Transparency International's Global Corruption Barometer 2013, 68% of surveyed households consider political parties to be corrupt or extremely corrupt—ranking as the most corrupt institution in Latvia. Furthermore, 55% of the surveyed households believe that the level of corruption has stayed same and 67% of surveyed households find government efforts in the fight against corruption to be ineffective Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 40th place out of 180 countries.\n\nThere is a widespread perception that politicians and businesses are too closely linked in Latvia. Business executives surveyed in the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014 believe that public funds are sometimes diverted to companies, individuals or groups due to corruption, and the lack of sufficient ethical behaviour of companies with public officials, politicians and other companies is a competitive disadvantage for the country.\n\nThe leading specialised anti-corruption authority of Latvia is the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau (KNAB; ).. It was established in October 2012, following adoption of the Law on Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau on 18 April 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19057827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19057827", "title": "Crime in Oman", "text": "Crime in Oman\n\nThe crime rate in Oman is low compared to other industrialized countries. Incidents of serious crime are rare in the country. Incidents of petty crime including burglary and theft of property of foreign tourists are occasionally reported. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) describes the law and order situation in Oman as \"generally good\". Incidence of street crime is low. Violent crime occurs, but is extremely low compared to the rest of the Middle East.\n\nOman is a destination point for men and women mainly from South Asian nations like Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka and Pakistan who migrate willingly, but some of whom become victims of trafficking when subjected to conditions of involuntary servitude as domestic workers and laborers. Mistreatment includes non-payment of wages, restrictions on movement and withholding of passports, threats, and physical or sexual abuse. Oman is also a destination point for women trafficked from Asia, Eastern Europe and North Africa for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation.\n\nThe Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) of the Government of Australia and the FCO reported there are incidents where individuals presenting themselves as employees of the Ministry of Health have called private houses offering vaccinations against avian influenza (commonly known as Bird flu). But the Ministry of Health does not provide any service like this. Drugs are given to people as \"vaccines\" to make them unconscious and then they are robbed.\n\nThreat of terrorist attack is a matter of concern. The DFAT advised travelers \"to exercise a high degree of caution in Oman because of the high threat of terrorist attack\". The United States Department of State expressed concern over possibility of terrorist attacks against citizens of the United States. According to the FCO, \"there is an underlying threat from terrorism in Oman. Attacks, although unlikely, could be indiscriminate, including in places frequented by expatriates and foreign travelers\".\n\nDrug trafficking in general is low. However the amount of seized heroin in 1995 was 6.2 kg which was an increase compared to 1 kg in 1994. Oman has established an Inter ministerial committee for the purpose of overseeing drug framework matters. The country has a well-organized Drug Control Unit to deal with drug trafficking. Oman is a party of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances (1971).\n\nAccording to Interpol data, criminal homicide rate in Oman decreased from 0.94 to 0.91 per 100,000 population between 1995 and 2000. It was a decrease of 3.2%. The rate of rape also decreased by 16.4%. But rate of robbery increased by 108.1%. While the rate of robbery was 1.24 per 100,000 population in 1995, it increased to 2.58 per 100,000 population in 2000. Similarly the rate of aggravated assault, burglary, larceny and motor vehicle theft increased by 10.7%, 57.7%, 317.8% and 112.2% respectively.\n"}
{"id": "21418463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21418463", "title": "Danish Sign Language", "text": "Danish Sign Language\n\nDanish Sign Language (, DTS) is the sign language used in Denmark.\n\nHenri Wittmann (1991) assigned DSL to the French Sign Language family because of similarities in vocabulary. However, the founder of the first deaf school in Denmark, Peter Atke Castberg, was receptive to local sign language in 1807 and so may have introduced FSL signs to the local language rather than FSL itself.\n\nNorwegian Sign Language is generally thought to be a descendant of DSL. However, it may well be a mixture of DSL and indigenous sign, parallel to the situation between Swedish Sign Language and Finnish Sign Language. \n\nIcelandic Sign Language is closer; 37% of a set of analyzed signs (Aldersson 2006) were completely different in structure and a further 16% were similar but not the same. Faroese Sign Language and Greenlandic Sign Language are more clearly dialects of DSL.\n\n\nSign Language Studies | October 1, 2008 | Aldersson, Russell R; McEntee-Atalianis, Lisa J | 700+ words\n"}
{"id": "49297607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49297607", "title": "Domine salvum fac regem", "text": "Domine salvum fac regem\n\nDomine, salvum fac regem (Lord, save the King) was a petit motet sung for the King of France at every Mass.\n\nWhile it already existed in mediaeval France, the motet was composed by Jean Mouton for the coronation of King François I at 1515. It was put to music as a grand motet by Jean-Baptiste Lully, and was made customary at the end of every Mass at the Chapel of Versailles.\n\nDomine salvum fac regem \net exaudi nos in die qua invocaverimus te. \nGloria Patri et Filio, \net Spiritui Sancto. \nSicut erat in principio \net nunc et semper et in saecula saeculorum. \nAmen.\n\nLord, save our King \nand hear us in the day in which we shall call upon Thee. \nGlory to the Father and the Son, \nand the Holy Spirit. \nAs it was in the beginning \nand it is now, and it shall be, for ever without end. \nAmen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7598740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7598740", "title": "Environmental Science: Processes &amp; Impacts", "text": "Environmental Science: Processes &amp; Impacts\n\nEnvironmental Science: Processes & Impacts is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering all aspects of environmental science. It is published by the Royal Society of Chemistry and Kris McNeill is the editor-in-chief. The journal was established in 1999 as the \"Journal of Environmental Monitoring\" and obtained its current title in 2013.\n\nThe journal publishes full research papers, communications, perspectives, critical reviews, frontier reviews, tutorial reviews, comments, and highlights.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Analytical Abstracts, Chemical Abstracts Service, Embase/Excerpta Medica, Elsevier BIOBASE, Current Awareness in Biological Sciences, Index Medicus/MEDLINE/PubMed, CAB International, VINITI Database RAS, Science Citation Index, Current Contents/Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences, Current Contents/Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences, The Zoological Record, and BIOSIS Previews. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 2.171.\n\nThe Royal Society of Chemistry publishes 2 other journals in the \"Environmental Science\" portfolio: Environmental Science: Nano was established in 2014 and Environmental Science: Water Research & Technology in 2015. \n\n"}
{"id": "53421005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53421005", "title": "Fintech Valley Vizag", "text": "Fintech Valley Vizag\n\nFintech Valley Vizag is an initiative of the Government of Andhra Pradesh to promote business infrastructure in the state, and attract investors and multinational corporations to set up offices. The project was launched in December 2016.\n\nIn September 2016, the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh N. Chandrababu Naidu announced the project through a document titled 'Sunrise Andhra Pradesh Vision 2029' stating its objectives and the proposed growth achievable through this initiative for the state by 2029.\n\nVisakhapatnam, also known as Vizag, was chosen as the city to host the project due to its size and the potential for attracting investment. It is the largest city in Andhra Pradesh with an IT industry whose turnover is Rs. 2,000 crore and an established industrial base. The objective was set to build into a thriving Finance & Technology ecosystem.\n\n\nGlobal financial services companies, government and academia will be encouraged to come together and build capacity, infrastructure, market access, connectivity, funding channels, and incentive mechanisms that will help them achieve their business goals. Start-ups, financial Institutions, technology vendors, incubators / accelerators / innovation labs, and investors simultaneously would be also be encouraged to contribute to the ecosystem.\n\n\nTo support start-up organizations, the government will provide infrastructure and market access to facilitate PoCs of the start-up organizations.\n\n\nFintech Valley Vizag launched the Finteract, a platform to engage with the startup community during the Spring Conference 2017.\n\nValueLabs, Blocktrust, Knolskape, Trasaction Analysts, Genesys Labs and GMS, Paytm have offices in the valley.\n\nMonetary Authority of Singapore, HSBC and Broadridge are among the 10 companies who are set to provide development and resource sharing MoUs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46400142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46400142", "title": "First class (aviation)", "text": "First class (aviation)\n\nFirst class is a travel class on some passenger airliners intended to be more luxurious than business class, premium economy, and economy class. On a passenger jetliner, \"first class\" usually refers to a limited number (rarely more than 20) of seats or cabins toward the front of the aircraft which have more space, comfort, service, and privacy. In general, first class is the highest class offered, although some airlines have branded their new products as above first class. Propeller airliners often had first class in the rear, away from the noise of the rotating propeller, while first class on jet aircraft is normally positioned near the front of the aircraft, normally in front of the business class section, or on the top deck for aircraft such as the Boeing 747 and Airbus A380.\n\nFirst-class seats vary from large reclining seats with more legroom and width than other classes to suites with a fully reclining seat, workstation and TV surrounded by privacy dividers. International first-class seats usually have between 147–239 cm (58–94 inches) of seat pitch and between 48–89 cm (19–35 inches) of width while domestic flights may have between 86–173 cm (34–68 inches) of pitch and between 46–56 cm (18–22 inches) in width. In fact this means there is less discomfort for taller people. Some airlines have first-class seats which allow passengers to let one guest sit for a short while face-to-face with the occupant of the cabin.\n\nFirst-class passengers usually have at least one lavatory for their exclusive use, with more than one on larger planes. Business- and economy-class passengers are not normally permitted in the first-class cabin. Normally AVOD (audiovisual on demand) entertainment is offered, although sometimes normal films, television programs and interactive games are provided on medium-large seat-back or armrest-mounted flat panel monitors. Especially for long-haul and high-yielding routes on top airlines, a first-class seat may have facilities akin to a five-star hotel, such as a mini-bar.\n\nSince the 1990s, a trend developed in which many airlines eliminated first class sections in favour of an upgraded business class. Newer business class seating is increasing adding features previously exclusive to first class such as convertible lie-flat seats, narrowing the amenities gap to an extent that first class is redundant. Furthermore, with the late 2000s recession, airlines have removed or not installed first class seating in their aircraft, as first class seats are usually double the price of business class but can take up more than twice the room, leaving business class the most expensive seats on such planes. However some, such as Garuda Indonesia, have opted to reintroduce first class seating sections with new aircraft.\n\nWith business class seating moving upmarket, some airlines are reintroducing or modelling their first-class sections as suites. Singapore Airlines now markets its highest class on its A380s as \"suites\", with the tagline \"A class above first.\" The 2 m (78 inches) bed is separate from the seat and folds out from the back wall, with several other components of the suite lowering to accommodate the mattress. Windows are built into the doors and blinds offer privacy. Suites located in the center can form a double bed after the privacy blinds between them are retracted into the ceiling. Other A380 operators like Emirates also have a suite-like first class with similar amenities but the bed and chair are integrated where a button is pushed to turn the seat into a bed in seconds and vice versa. Etihad Airways introduced a three-room suite called \"The Residence\" in December 2014 when it added the Airbus A380 to its fleet. The Residence includes its own bedroom with double bed, dining/living area and fully functional shower.\n\nOn most flights within or between the United States (including Alaska but not Hawaii), Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean – what is normally regarded as regional business class or premium economy in the rest of the world is branded as \"domestic first class\" by US airlines. The service is generally a step below long haul international business class. US territories in the Western Pacific (Guam and the CNMI) and sometimes Hawaii are considered international for service purposes and generally feature long haul business class.\n\nHowever, \"domestic first class\" does have two very different meanings on certain transcontinental routes between New York City and California. Delta Airlines, American Airlines, United Airlines, and JetBlue operate a special service on flights between John F. Kennedy International Airport and San Francisco International Airport or Los Angeles International Airport known as \"Delta Transcontinental Service,\" \"American flagship service\", \"United p.s.\" (p.s. stands for premium service), and \"Mint,\" respectively, with Delta and United using specially configured Boeing 757-200s and American and JetBlue using Airbus A321s. In the cases of American and JetBlue, first class is actually a three-cabin first class which is different from two-cabin first class, both in comfort and price (such as lie flat seats in first class, for example). In these cases, domestic business class is generally slightly higher than a two-cabin domestic first class ticket. The three-cabin first class is more of a true first class rather than a rebranded business class. On JetBlue however, first class is only offered on transcontinental flights, consisting of mini suites or lie-flat seats.\n\nUS discount carriers (such as Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines) do not have first class cabins, instead opting for an all economy layout, sometimes with a few select rows with extra legroom (such as bulkhead and emergency row seats) available for a fee.\n\nFirst class service was formerly available on intra-European flights on airlines such as British Airways, Lufthansa and Swissair. First class seats were typically configured in a 4-abreast configuration, similar to current North American domestic first class seats, rather than the 6-abreast configuration used for economy and latterly business class services.\n\nDuring the 1980s European first class was largely phased out in favour of 6-abreast seating throughout the aircraft, with variable numbers of seats allocated to business class (the business class cabin often being marked with a moveable divider). This allowed greater flexibility for the airlines, allowing them to allocate differing amounts of premium seating depending on the route. Turkish Airlines are one of the few European airlines still offering 4-abreast seating in their premium intra-Europe cabins, but they're sold as business class seats rather than first class. Same situation is in Russia onboard Aeroflot – Russian Airlines intra-Europe flights.\n\nOn the ground, first-class passengers usually have special check-in and security zones at the airport. Some airlines operate private first-class terminals and/or offer international first class passengers complimentary limousine rides to the airport. While it is typical that these passengers have lounge access, some airlines have separate lounges for first and business where the former may have more luxurious amenities. These passengers can often board the aircraft before other passengers, sometimes through their own jetbridge.\n\nAlcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks are complimentary and gourmet meals are usually served with a choice of wine, dessert, and aperitifs. Often these meals have been designed by leading chefs and are served on white linen table cloths and with real cutlery.\n\nHistorically, first-class air travel has been very expensive. First-class long-haul fares regularly exceed $10,000 per person round trip, as opposed to $4,000–5,000 international business class tickets and $1,000–2,000 economy class tickets. With the emergence of frequent flyer programmes however, passengers have been able to upgrade their business- or economy-class tickets through membership in elite frequent-flyer programs and through the policies of some airlines that allow business and economy-class passengers to purchase last-minute upgrades on a space-available basis. Some airlines also offer upgrading to first class as a bonus to their employees.\n\nThis is list of airlines with First Class for international flights only.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSeveral airlines abandoned their First Class cabins for various reasons over the past decades:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34007819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34007819", "title": "Georgians in Lithuania", "text": "Georgians in Lithuania\n\nEthnic Georgians in Lithuania number around 320 and mostly live in the capital city of Vilnius and town of Panevėžys. As of 2011, it is the 13th biggest ethnic minority in the country.\n\nThere is Georgian restaurant \"Adria\" in the city of Vilnius.\n"}
{"id": "46817643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46817643", "title": "Gyami", "text": "Gyami\n\nThe Gyami (, \"Han Chinese\") were a Han people of Sichuan at the foot of the Tibetan Plateau who were reported by Brian Houghton Hodgson in 1874.\n\nAccording to Hodgson, who thought the Gyami descended from a Chinese military outpost, the Chinese considered the Gyami to be Qiangic speakers, suggesting that they did not recognize them as Han Chinese and that they did not use Chinese characters. Victor H. Mair notes that what little is recorded of their speech indicates a degree of assimilation to local languages, but that it is clearly a variety of Mandarin.\n"}
{"id": "25504998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25504998", "title": "Jane's Walk", "text": "Jane's Walk\n\nJane’s Walk is a series of neighbourhood walking tours. Named after urban activist and writer Jane Jacobs, Jane's Walks are held annually during the first weekend in May to coincide with her birthday.\n\nJane's Walks are led by volunteers, and are offered for free. The walks are led by anyone who has an interest in the neighbourhoods where they live, work or socialise. They are not always about architecture and heritage, and offer a more personal take on the local culture, the social history and the planning issues faced by the residents.\n\nSince its inception in 2007, Jane’s Walk has happened in cities across North America and around the world. In 2014, over 40,000 people took part in a Jane's Walk led by volunteers in 134 cities across 6 continents. \n\n"}
{"id": "12403308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12403308", "title": "Keep Cool (board game)", "text": "Keep Cool (board game)\n\nKeep Cool is a board game created by Klaus Eisenack and Gerhard Petschel-Held of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and published by the German company Spieltrieb in November 2004. The game can be classified as both a serious game and a global warming game. In Keep Cool, up to six players representing the world's countries compete to balance their own economic interests and the world's climate in a game of negotiation. The goal of the game as stated by the authors is to \"promote the general knowledge on climate change and the understanding of difficulties and obstacles, and \"to make it available for a board game and still retain the major elements and processes.\"\n\nAfter Keep Cool was released in stores, it was sold out in only four months, prompting a second edition of the game to be released. The game has become very popular in Germany, and the game's creators were surprised at the success. Petschel-Held explained, \"With 'Keep Cool,' we've been able to open new channels for dialogue between scientists and the public,\" and Eisenack commented, \"Feedback has revealed surprising insights and exciting discussions about conflicts of interest in climate politics as highlights of Keep Cool.\" Keep Cool has been used by NGO's, schools, universities, and gaming conventions, besides being used by families and the general public. The German Federal Ministry for the Environment (BMU) has now included Keep Cool as a part of its teaching materials.\n\nThe game can be played with three to six players. The countries that players will use for the game depends on the number of players, as shown in table below.\n\nEach of the countries has a distinct starting position in the game and some have special abilities/bargaining chips which can greatly affect negotiation. The United States begins the game with the most factories on the board (five black and one green) and always goes first. Europe begins with three black factories and one green, and the Tiger Countries begin with two black.\nThe Former Soviet Union begins the game with one of each kind of factory, but has the special prerogative to demand one carbonchip from any player at the beginning of their turn. OPEC and the Developing Countries only start with one black factory each, but they both have special attributes which they can use to their advantage. OPEC receives an additional carbonchip as income for every four black factories on the game board. The Developing Countries can either add or remove up to three carbonchips to/from the carbometer from/to the chip pool.\n\nA player needs to fulfill both their economic target and their secret target to win the game. Once both of their targets are fulfilled, the game ends, whether or not the targets are met during that player's turn. It is possible that multiple players could achieve their targets at the same time.\n\nA player's economic target is met by having a certain minimum number of factories on the board. For this goal, only factories which are owned by that particular player count toward the total. This number is different for every group of countries, and it based on that group's number of starting factories and rate of growth. Players cannot receive factories from other players, but players may receive funds from other players which may go towards the cost of building new factories.\nAt the beginning of the game, players are randomly dealt a card with two secret targets printed on it. Players do not share these targets with other players. Players only have to meet one of the printed secret targets, though having two to choose from allows for some flexibility in their strategy. A player may switch between strategies at any time. There are eight different secret targets in Keep Cool. All targets are minimum or maximum numbers of protection tokens, green factories, or black factories. These minimum and maximum numbers can either be global targets or G77 targets. G77 targets only count the number of game pieces in the Former Soviet Union, Developing Countries, and Tiger Countries.\n\nWhile there are only eight secret targets, there are eleven secret target cards, so it is very likely that at least two players in a game will have a common secret target.\n\nThe very first thing a player does on their turn, even before the usual steps of collecting income and the rest, is draw a greenhouse card. Greenhouse cards are the random generators of disasters in Keep Cool. Most greenhouse cards are disasters which affect a particular region (consequently only one player) such as Malaria Pandemic in China or Cold Winter in Europe. Greenhouse also include rarer events, such as global disasters (e.g. Sea-level rise) and beneficial events due to global warming, like more rain in Iran. The degree of the disaster or beneficial climate event is dependent on what level of warming has occurred in the game thus far, which is measured by the carbometer. In the blue zone, many disasters and other events have little or no effect. In the yellow and orange zones, disasters are particularly more potent as well as the benefit received from positive climate changes. In the red zone, climate events are catastrophic and beneficial events from positive change are severely reduced.\n\nThe different coalitions of countries used in Keep Cool are based on the groups of similar interests which have emerged through the conferences held by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Throughout the various conferences of the UNFCCC, the countries belonging to the group \"USA & Partners\" have been generally hesitant about signing on to mandatory emissions targets and commitments. The countries of the Former Soviet Union have had emissions below the oft-cited '1990 level' for many years now, so they play a special role in emissions reduction by keeping their emissions low. The countries of the European Union have tended to have stronger commitments to reductions. The remaining groups of countries all belong to the G77. The G77 countries are divided accordingly because of their different interests, i.e. countries like China and India want to rapidly expand their industry and use their own coal, and oil-exporting countries have made no commitments to reduce emissions.\n\nDeveloping countries are singled out as their own group partly because of their control of the world's rain forests. Depending on whether developing countries protect the rain forests in their lands and reforest or if they decide to clearcut in favor of expanding farmlands and industry, the developing countries can either act as another source of carbon pollution (via clearcutting) or as a carbon sink (via conservation and reforestation).\n\nGreen and black factories in Keep Cool do not correspond to any actual types of factories in reality. Instead, they are symbolic of energy generation. Green factories symbolize power generated from renewable sources like wind, sun, and biomass. Black factories represent power from non-renewable fossil fuel sources like oil and coal. In Keep Cool, the only way to truly reduce emissions is to demolish black factories.\n\nProtection tokens are meant to represent general measures to adapt to the effects of global warming. Examples include installing flood plains, building reservoirs, and constructing new buildings in areas further away from the coast. In Keep Cool, the cost of protection tokens increases upon every purchase--\"Dykes cannot be raised infinitely.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39710759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39710759", "title": "Khotons", "text": "Khotons\n\nThe Khoton people are an ethnic group in Mongolia. Most live in Uvs Province, especially in Tarialan, Naranbulag and Ulaangom. While the Khotons spoke a Turkic language until the 18th century, most now speak the Dörbet dialect of the Oirat people. Khotons often avoid mainstream Mongolian written culture.\nThere were officially about 6,100 Khotons in 1989.\n\nThe Khotons are reputed to be descended from members of Kyrgyz tribe.\n\n\"Khoton\" or \"Khotong\" was originally a Mongol term for Muslim Uyghur and Hui people, or Chinese language-speaking Muslims.\n\nThe Khotons settled in Mongolia by Oirats in the 17th century. According to another version,\nsettled in Mongolia after 1753, when their leader, the Dörbet Prince Tseren Ubashi, surrendered to the Qing Dynasty.\n\nUnlike most Mongolians, Khotons follow a syncretic religion retaining some aspects of Islam, and traditionally avoid intermarriage with other ethnic groups.\n\n\"The Khotons of Western Mongolia\", 1979.\n\n"}
{"id": "39134853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39134853", "title": "Kyungu", "text": "Kyungu\n\nKyungu is a traditional authority in Karonga District in the Northern Region of Malawi. It is mainly inhabited by the Ngonde.\n\nThe current paramount Chief is Paramount Chief Kyungu Nsangalufu Clement Mwakabanga III that was elevated to this position by President Joyce Banda. There has been some controversies surrounding him and paramount Chief Karonga in recent years as a result of changes in administration and politics.He was recognized as Chief by President Joyce Banda in 2012. He is the most senior Chief in Karonga District and Chitipa District.\n\nKyungu area is prone to floods. In March 2013, flood displaced people in the area.\n\nKuyungu Spirituality\n"}
{"id": "3381519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3381519", "title": "Life. Be in it.", "text": "Life. Be in it.\n\nLife. Be in it. started as an Australian government program and advertising campaign encouraging people to be more active and participate in recreational sports or other physical activities.\n\nThe program began in 1975 with the Victorian state government, the brainchild of Brian Dixon, former Australian rules footballer and then Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation. One of their early programs was to bring over Pat Farrington, a co-founder of the New Games, supplying her with five vans and 25 volunteers to drive around rural townships in Victoria, teaching people how to play games (New Games Book: p22)\n\nIn 1977 the federal government expanded the program nationally. The campaign also aired in the United States on local television stations during the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe television advertisements for the program are cartoons featuring people doing a wide range of activities, with a catchy tune \"Be in it today, live more of your life\". The main character is Norm, a middle aged man with a prominent beer belly, meant to represent a \"normal\" Australian bloke. The idea for Norm and the advertising came from Phillip Adams and Alex Stitt; Stitt drew all the cartoons. In the original run of television advertisements, Norm was voiced by Max Gillies. In the 2000 revival, the voice was provided by Dr Colin Benjamin.\n\nThe campaign was an enormous success in terms of recognition, by 1979 about 83% and by 1982 about 94%. Recognition remains high at 85%.\n\nFederal funding ended in 1981, redirected towards elite programs. The program became an Australia company, and continued for a time working with other groups like the National Heart Foundation of Australia, before going into hibernation. The brand is now under the custodianship of Life. Be in it. International Pty Ltd and is managed in each state by associations or companies. Some are given government grants to run specific programs but none are government programs.\n\nThe program continues to be active throughout Australia and continues to involve Australians in activities in every State and Territory. Programs include Life Games, Corporate Cup, Walking activities etc. and in South Australia and Victoria, the 'Life. Be in it' Sport for All Centres provide indoor social sporting competitions for children and adults. The original concept of 'Life, be in it' was created by Dr John Cooper and Oscar Scherl and was presented to Adam's Packer (Melbourne Advertising Agency) in the early 1970's.\n\nThe original theme music for the campaign was created by Peter Best.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13936223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13936223", "title": "Limbu clans and tribes", "text": "Limbu clans and tribes\n\nThe Limbu nation is made up of hundreds of clans. Each Limbu clans are classified under their Tribe or subnational entity or according to their place of origin. Almost all the Limbu clan names are unique, therefore it is not necessary to specify the Tribe or the place of origin every time the clan name is said. \n\nThe most Limbu (Yakthung) tribes are the original inhabitants and descended from the ancient Kirata mentioned in such Hindu epics as the Mahabharata, other thirteen clans of Limbus originated from Lhasa ghotra and Khasi gotra. \n\nAlthough, some of the clan names may not be unique for example: Chongbang or Maden. They are divided by listing their tribe name before or after their clan. Chongbang can be Sering-Chongbang or Huuppa-Chongbang or Tilling-Chongbang, similarly Maden clan can be specifically Tilling-Maden or Thokleng-Maden or Tunglung-Maden or Phendua-Maden. Listed Chaobisia, Mawakhola, Tambarkhola, Charkhola, Maiwakhola, Panthar, Tinkhola, Phedap and Yangrok are the names of the places where the respective clans belong to. Chaobisia refers to present day Dhankuta and Morang districts, Tambarkhola area is in present-day Taplejung district, Mewakhola area refers to present day Taplejung and Sankhuwasabha districts, Charkhola is a present-day Ilam and Jhapa districts, Maiwakhola area is in present-day Taplejung district, Tinkhola is in Panchthar district, Panchthar is Panchthar district, Phedap is the north-central area of Terhathum district, Athraya is in northeastern Terhathum district, Chethar is in southern Terhathum, Sankhuwasabha and eastern Dhankuta district. Yangrok area is in present-day Southeast Taplejung, Northeast Panchthar districts and west Sikkim. All of these areas make up Limbuwan.\n\nThe unification of Limbuwan kingdoms and Nepal has brought changed on Yakthungs(Limbu) as their Hindu caste system given them name to all those living in Limbuwan as Limbu, Subba and ranked them as one of the unenslavable alcohol consuming groups (namasine matwali jaat). After their land by loss of gorkhaland, the Limbus have divided into three nationality Nepalese Limbu, bhutanese limbu and Indian Limbu.\n\nTo Limbus, genealogy is very important before conducting marriages. Limbus don't marry within their own clan known as incest and not into their mother's clan or their grandmothers' clan. Some Traditional and cultural Limbus with strong background, avoid marriages into clans from which they derive their blood, up to seven generations in their father's line and up to five generations in their mother's line. That means Marriages into great-great-great grandmothers' clans are also avoided.\n\nA person of Sering-Chongbang clan can marry a person of Phago-Chongbang or Kajum-Chongbang clan but not of Sering-Chongbang clan, this is because all the members of Sering-Chongbang are descended from the same male ancestor and considered related by bone and blood.The clan names have terms attached to it as well, Libang means the Archer, Tilling means the Police, Menyangbo means the successful one, Samba means the priest, etc. However, clans also have meanings which evolved from sentences e.g. Hembya was according to legend, evolved from \"Hey' nangh wa\" which translates to \"Over there also\". However, on original verbal dialect, 'Hembya' would be pronounced as \"Hem-phe\". This name was previously used to identify Thebe's next clan who settled in a different territory.\n\nThe following are the list of Limbu clans.\n\n"}
{"id": "25829702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25829702", "title": "List of British politicians who have acknowledged cannabis use", "text": "List of British politicians who have acknowledged cannabis use\n\n\"Cannabis\" is a genus of flowering plants with species that have long been used for fibre (hemp), for medicinal purposes, and as a drug. Industrial hemp products are made from cannabis plants selected to produce an abundance of fiber and minimal levels of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a psychoactive molecule that produces the \"high\" associated with cannabis as a drug.\n\nCannabis may have been known in Britain as far back as the Bronze Age (ca. 2800 BP) when pieces of textiles and string were found at a site at St. Andrews in Scotland. Microscopic inspection showed that the fibres of these items appeared to have several different characteristics to those of flax.\n\nThe first hard evidence of hemp in England are seeds that have been identified as cannabis sativa found in a Roman well in York. Palynologists then find an increasing pollen curve in sediments, dating from the early Saxon period and peaking between 800 AD and 1200 AD. Hemp cultivation was widespread and appears to have been concentrated around the coastal areas of Britain which would indicate its importance for making nets, sail-cloth and rope.\n\nHowever, to satisfy the increased demand for rope and sailcloth for King Henry VIII's new navy, he decreed (1533) that all landholders set aside one-quarter acre for the cultivation of flax or hemp for every sixty acres of land that they tilled in order to provide the necessary fibre. Queen Elizabeth I reintroduced the law (1563 AD) to expand her navy and imposes a £5 fine for any eligible landlord who failed to comply. From then on the demand increased and the hemp industry became very important to the British economy. Indeed, it was their need to improve the supply of this strategic raw commodity that come the 1630s the British sped up their colonization of the new world.\n\nFurthermore, cannabis also became an important medicine. There are claims that Queen Victoria took tincture of Cannabis to ease the pain of childbirth but these have been disputed.\n\nIn order that Britain could ratify international treaties which it signed up to, it added tincture of cannabis to the list of drugs which already required an importation or exportation licence, granted by the Home Secretary. This took the form of the \"Dangerous Drugs Act 1920\".\n\nSecondary legislation was introduced to ensure better standardization and quality of cannabis tincture. This was achieved by tight legislative control over sourcing the raw materials, processing and distribution. An effect of this control was to restrict the use of tincture to purposes that were strictly medical or scientific. Other forms of cannabis were not affected.\n\nOne of the regulations to maintain quality is briefly alluded to by Maud Grieve in her book \"A Modern Herbal\", where she mentions in the section about Indian Hemp that \"two-year-old ganja is almost inert, and the law requires it to be burnt in the presence of excise officers.\"\n\nThe League of Nations was put in charge of international drug control after World War One. Cannabis was not initially subject to international control but was controlled as part of the 1925 Geneva Opium Conventions . Control came about due to the local situation in Egypt and the desire of the new leaders of the country to embarrass their former British rulers by claiming that its use had led to widespread insanity. Due to its importance as a medicine and its other industrial uses, this proposal was reduced to prohibiting the unlicensed possession of cannabis. Britain ratified this agreement by amending the Dangerous Drugs Act 1920 with the Dangerous Drugs Act 1925 which added some other of cannabis hitherto ignored. Namely, cannabis resin, cannabis oil (hash oil), cannabis leaf, flower-heads and the raw plant itself. However, whole seeds, seed oil (hemp oil) and fibre are not included. They can still be used for baiting fish, feeding birds, cooking, making strong ropes and high quality paper. In order that the government could avoid paying out compensation, enforcement of the act was delayed until 1928, thus giving people time to legitimately dispose of their stock which contravenes the new Bill.\n\nFollowing the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs (1961) the cultivation of cannabis ceased in the UK.\n\nCannabis tincture was finally removed from the British National Formulary in 1971 by the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.\n\nPoliticians that have admitted to recreational use following prohibition include, Members of Parliament, Home Secretaries and other Ministers, Peers, and Mayors.\n\nDavid Cameron, the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and former leader of the Conservative Party, has not clearly communicated whether he has used cannabis but he has said that he is \"not issuing denials\" about the stories on the front pages of several national newspapers claiming that he had. He did however, while Leader of the Opposition, say, that he supports the legalisation of medical cannabis.\n\n"}
{"id": "9465009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9465009", "title": "List of Jewish anarchists", "text": "List of Jewish anarchists\n\nThis is a list of Jewish anarchists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23416255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23416255", "title": "List of drugs banned by WADA", "text": "List of drugs banned by WADA\n\nThis list of drugs banned by WADA is determined by the World Anti-Doping Agency, established in 1999 to deal with the increasing problem of doping in the sports world. The banned substances and techniques fall into the following categories: androgens, blood doping, peptide hormones, stimulants, diuretics, narcotics, and cannabinoids.\n\nBlood doping is the injection of red blood cells, related blood products that contain red blood cells, or artificial oxygen containers. This is done by extracting and storing one's own blood prior to an athletic competition, well in advance of the competition so that the body can replenish its natural levels of red blood cells, and subsequently injecting the stored blood immediately before competition. The resulting unnatural level of red blood cells improves oxygen transport and athletic endurance; thus, it is prohibited in most events. It is often used in extreme sports like cycling, snowboarding, and skiing where endurance is highly valued. The most famous example of this type of doping is Lance Armstrong's performance in the Tour de France.\n\nBanned androgenic agents are either anabolic steroids, which increase testosterone and epitestosterone, thereby improving muscle strength and endurance, or beta-2 agonists (see adrenergic beta-agonist). Andro, DHEA, stanozolol, testosterone, and nandrolone, or derivates (see below) are banned anabolic steroids. Beta-2 agonists can act as bronchodilators and increase heart rates, in addition to their mild androgenic effects. Other banned androgenic agents include bambuterol, clenbuterol, salbutamol, tibolone, zeranol, zilpaterol, and selective androgen receptor modulators. While a few of the banned drugs are endogenous, that is they are normally produced in the human body, most of the banned drug are exogenous drugs chemically produced.\n\nThis is the complete list of exogenous (non-natural) androgenic agents banned as of January 1, 2012:\n\n\nDrugs with similar structures and biological activity are also banned because new designer drugs of this sort are always being developed in order to beat the drug tests.\n\nThe following substances, ordinarily produced naturally in the body, are prohibited when administered from outside the body.\n\nMetabolites and isomers of endogenous anabolic androgenic steroids, including:\n\n\nCertain peptide hormones increase bulk, strength, and oxygen-carrying red blood cells.\n\nErythropoiesis-stimulating agents such as erythropoietin (EPO), darbepoetin (dEPO), hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) stabilizers, methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta (CERA) and peginesatide (Hematide); growth hormone (hGH), insulin-like growth factors (IGF-1, etc.), fibroblast growth factors (FGFs), hepatocyte growth factors (HGF), mechano growth factors (MGFs), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), chorionic gonadotropin (banned in men only), somatotrophin (growth hormone), insulins and corticotrophins, corticosteroid mimics, and their releasing factor, are banned.\n\nAlso banned are any other growth factor affecting muscle, tendon or ligament protein synthesis/degradation, vascularization, energy utilization, regenerative capacity or fiber type switching; and other substances with similar chemical structure or similar biological effects.\n\nAll beta-2 agonists and their - and -isomers, are banned. However, formoterol, salbutamol, salmeterol, and terbutaline may be used with a \"therapeutic use exemption\", only in the inhaled form.\n\nHormone levels of a particular hormone, like testosterone, can be changed not only by administering it, but also by altering related hormones. For example, the estrogens estrone and estradiol are biosynthetically produced by the enzyme aromatase, respectively, from androstenedione and testosterone, which are both produced from 17α-hydroxyprogesterone. Thus, when the body senses low levels of estrogen, the precursor compounds 17α-hydroxyprogesterone, androstenedione, and testosterone are up-regulated. Likewise, interfering with a hormone's receptor leads to similar effects. Because of these natural hormone-hormone interdependent biosynthetic pathways and hormone-receptor interactions, all aromatase inhibitors, including anastrozole, letrozole, aminoglutethimide, exemestane, formestane, and testolactone are banned. Selective estrogen receptor modulators, including raloxifene, tamoxifen and toremifene are banned. Clomiphene, cyclofenil, fulvestrant, and all other anti-estrogenic substances are banned. Myostatin inhibitors are banned. Metabolic modulators including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPARδ) agonists (e.g., GW 1516), PPARδ-AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) axis agonists (e.g. AICAR) are also banned. Meldonium was banned on 1 January 2016, which led to a Russian doping scandal.\n\nStimulants directly affect the central nervous system, increasing blood flow and heart rate. These drugs primarily help athletes in complex team sports like basketball and association football as well as choreographed sports like figure skating and artistic gymnastics. Stimulants that are banned include amphetamines, beta-2 agonists, ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, fencamfamine, cocaine, methamphetamines, mesocarb, and other substances with similar chemical structures and biological effects, including the following:\n\n\n\nDiuretics, which increase the production of urine, and masking agents, chemical compounds which interfere with drug tests, are banned for two reasons. First, by decreasing water retention and thus decreasing an athlete's weight, an important consideration in many speed sports (e.g. track and field, speed skating), they increase the speed of an athlete. Secondly, increased urine production depletes the concentration of both the banned drugs and their metabolites, making their detection more difficult. Masking agents, on the other hand, work by making drug tests ineffective, leading to false-negative results. Desmopressin, plasma expanders (such as glycerol; intravenous administration of albumin, dextran, hydroxyethyl starch and mannitol), probenecid, and other substances with similar biological effects are also banned. Local application of felypressin in dental anesthesia is not prohibited.\n\nThe following diuretics, and chemicals with similar structure or biological activity are banned:\n\nNarcotic analgesics decrease the painful sensations of serious injuries, potentially allowing athletes to continue training for competition after an injury. While some painkillers are allowed, including codeine, the following are banned:\n\n\nThe cannabis products marijuana and hashish are also banned in competition due to their cannabinoid content.\n\nGlucocorticoids are a class of corticosteroids that affect the metabolism of carbohydrates, fat, and proteins, and regulate glycogen and blood pressure levels.They possess pronounced anti-inflammatory activity and cause alteration of connective tissue in response to injuries. The anti-inflammatory and connective tissue effects of glucocorticoids might mask injuries, leading to more serious injuries to athletes. Because of this and metabolic regulation effects, the administration of any glucorticoid orally, rectally, intraveniously, or intramuscularly is prohibited and requires a therapeutic use exemption. Topical uses of glucocorticoids does not require an exemption.\n\nBeta blockers are prohibited during competition in a number of sports; out of competition, they are prohibited only in archery and shooting. The prohibited beta blockers include:\n\n\nTherapeutic Use Exemptions (TUEs) is a term used by WADA and the United States Anti-Doping Agency to denote banned substances that athletes may be \"required to take to treat an illness or condition\". These exemptions are regulated by the International Standard for Therapeutic Use Exemptions (ISTUE). The detection of such substances in samples is labelled by WADA as an \"Adverse Analytical Finding\" (AAF), which is distinct from \"Anti-Doping Rules Violations\" (ADRV).\n\n"}
{"id": "15382815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15382815", "title": "List of projects supported by George Soros", "text": "List of projects supported by George Soros\n\nGeorge Soros has funded many political projects in recent years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "735803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=735803", "title": "Lobi people", "text": "Lobi people\n\nThe Lobi belong to an ethnic group that originated in what is today Ghana. Starting around 1770, many Lobi peoples migrated into southern Burkina Faso and later into Côte d'Ivoire. The group consists of around 180,000 people. Lobiri is the name of the language spoken by the Lobi people.\n\nLobi is a blanket term that refers to several closely related ethnic groups that comprise roughly 7% of the Burkinabe population, including the main Lobi proper, Birifor, Dagara, Dorossy, Dyan (aka Jãa), Gan and Tenbo/Loron (aka Lorhon, Teese, Teguessie and Thuuna). It is important to recognize that among them, only the Gan belong to a politically centralized, and royal, society. Other groups are commonly referred to as \"acephalous,\" which is misleading, but is meant to signal the absence of centralized political authority. Traditions vary among the groups, but some share a common sense of identity through participation in an initiation ceremony called \"joro\" (or \"dyoro\"), which takes place every seven years. In terms of kinship, decsent is bilineal. Many Lobi houses also share an architectural style, which consists of an earthen compound with walls made from horizontal courses. Most are single-story, and rarely include more than a few small, strategically placed holes to allow light in and to allow inhabitants to view the exterior surrounds. Historically, Lobi warriors used poisoned arrows to fend off attackers (including French colonists). Largely through the use of village and personal shrines, they also share animist beliefs in order to maintain a productive relationship with the spiritual world. They achieve this specifically through regular interaction with spirits called \"thila,\" which inhabit a wide range of natural areas and man-made objects, such as \"bateba\", or anthropomorphic shrine figures that are now also well recognized in the art world. \"Thila\" are ambivalent beings that require regular offerings--via sacrifice-- in exchange for a wide range of protective and benevolent actions. They are intermediaries with Thangba Yu, the remote Creator God. \n\nThe name Lobi originates from two Lobiri words: \"lou\" (forest) and \"bi\" (children), meaning literally, \"children of the forest\" who settled initially on the left bank of the Mouhoun River or the Black Volta dividing Burkina Faso and Ghana. The Mouhoun River is important to Lobi peoples for many reasons. In terms of migration history, it marks an escape from slave raiders in present day Ghana. In myth, it symbolizes a dividing line between this world and the next, similar to the River Styx of Roman mythology. The Lobi crossed the Mounhoun centuries ago from east to west and settled in the lands and brought with them deep animist beliefs and superstition. According to Lobi legend, the spirits of the deceased must return across the river to rejoin their honorable ancestors in the ancient world. The banks of the Mounhoun are used in initiation rites and fish and animals in the river are considered sacred.\n\nThe Lobi inhabit parts of southern Burkina Faso. According to the director of the museum in Gaoua which is considered to be the capital of the Lobi, \"The Lobi is a farmer, a hunter and a herder, but above all he is a warrior\". Victims of slave raids, rival clans and civil disputes, they are among the fiercest and proudest inhabitants of Burkina Faso and were constantly under attack from the Guiriko and Kenedougou empires during the 19th century. Bakary Ouattara, brother of the founder of the Guiriko empire led an offensive against the Lobi in 1815, and despite setting fire to several villages he was eventually killed by a poisoned arrow. He was succeeded by Karakara who continued with the raids leading up to the devastating attack in 1850 where they suffered heavily and lost a great deal but were never completely defeated.\n\nIn June 1898, the French and the British made an agreement that the Lobi country would go under French jurisdiction. Attempts at controlling the peoples was difficult and the Lobi became known for their resistance using poisoned arrows in attempting to thwart the French colonial invasion. In 1914, during the outbreak of World War I, the French colonial administration based in Gaoua began a merciless repression to the extent that the local were forbidden in copying any traits of the white man in the area. During the twentieth century some migrated into Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nThe Lobi are well documented for their animist beliefs, which involves regular interaction with ancestral and other types of spirits such as \"thila\" and \"kontuoursi\". Interaction with these spirits commonly takes place in a \"thilduu\" (domestic shrine room), \"dithil\" (village shrine), and at other places in nature inhabited by spirits. Christian missionaries working in southern Burkina Faso have reported that an elderly man in a Lobi village once renounced the spirits in favor of Christianity by discarding his fetishes in a nearby lake. As he turned his back on the traditions, the fetishes lept out of the lake onto his back again to reclaim him. Lobi people who convert to Christianity or Islam now usually burn their fetishes. Or, they may sell them on the market.\n\nIn Lobi animism, Thangba Yu is the creator of all living things. Lobi peoples have no direct contact with Him, but are dependent on nature spirits known as \"thila\", invisible intermediaries that can harness their supernatural powers towards good or evil. They set rules \"soser,\" which dictate how a Lobi should behave in important aspects of life. Similar to Greek or Roman gods, \"thila\" themselves are subject to mortal virtues and vices. In Lobi society, there is often a \"thildaar\" (village diviner) that may also act as a \"dithildaar\" (village priest; each village has only one) that interprets \"soser\" for the local community. A particularly intuitive and receptive \"thildaar\" is capable of interpreting as many as fifty or more spirits at a time. \n\nLobi dwellings are characterized as large rectangular or polygonal compounds known as \"maison soukala\". They are spaced well from each other and are composed of a single vast mud banco wall and a small entrance. An entrance to a Lobi house is a relatively recent development. At many houses, there is a ladder made from a large, Y-shaped tree trunk with notched steps, which lead up to the roof where inhabitants may access an interior granary and their own rooms below. Access to individual sleeping quarters is also available inside. Only the \"tyuordaarkuun\" (or head of the household; there is no \"chief\" in Lobi society) can give permission to enter the house. The roof is broad and flat and forms a terrace which provides a lookout point but can also be used for sleeping in the dry season. Domestic animals have their own space, and water is gathered from a well or the river. The rooms inside a Lobi house are very dark, and the size varies in relation to function. Each wife has a room for herself and her children where meals are prepared. Large earthenware jars used to hold water or other personal belongings are often stacked up against the kitchen walls and are a testament to the owner's economic status.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7568499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7568499", "title": "MApEC", "text": "MApEC\n\nMApEC (short for Multimedia Applications in Education Conference) is an international scientific conference in Graz, Austria on the topic of multimedia applications in education.\n\nThe conference has been organized by the university of applied sciences FH JOANNEUM in September 2004 and September 2006. \n\nIn 2006, the Best Paper Award was awarded and the prizes were presented by Austria's First Lady Margit Fischer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2703331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703331", "title": "Maban languages", "text": "Maban languages\n\nThe Maban languages are a small family of languages which have been included in the proposed Nilo-Saharan family. Maban languages are spoken in Chad, the Central African Republic, Sudan (Darfur) and South Sudan, and includes the following languages:\n\n\nThe languages attested in two word lists labelled \"Mimi\", collected by Decorse (Mimi-D) and Nachtigal (Mimi-N), have also been classified as Maban, though this has been contested. Mimi-N appears to have been remotely related to Maban proper, while Mimi-D appears to have not been Maban at all, with the similarities due to language contact with locally dominant Maba.\n\n"}
{"id": "40654882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40654882", "title": "Marc Keahey", "text": "Marc Keahey\n\nMarc Keahey was a Democratic member of the Alabama Senate, representing the 22nd district.\n\nKeahey earned a business degree from the University of Alabama, and in 2004 earned a JD from Cumberland School of Law. He has a wife, Lara, and three children.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Keahey served as a public defender, assistant district attorney, and private lawyer. Keahey was elected to the Alabama House of Representatives in 2006, and won a special election the Alabama Senate in 2009. He won election to a full Senate term in 2010. Keahey served on the Agriculture, Conservation and Forestry Committee, Business and Labor Committee, Fiscal Responsibility and Accountability Committee, Judiciary, and the Local Legislation No. 3 Committee.\n\nIn 2010, Keahey was named Legislator of the Year by the Alabama Association of Conservation Districts.\n\nHe dropped his re-election bid in 2014 after the Republican-controlled Senate redrew his district to be majority Republican.\n\n"}
{"id": "14244565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14244565", "title": "Mary Stocks, Baroness Stocks", "text": "Mary Stocks, Baroness Stocks\n\nMary Danvers Stocks, Baroness Stocks (née Brinton; 25 July 1891 – 6 July 1975) was a British writer. She was closely associated with the Strachey, the Wedgwood and the Ricardo families. Her family was deeply involved in changes in the Victorian Era and Stocks herself was deeply involved in women's suffrage, the welfare state, and other aspects of social work.\n\nStocks was born in London, the daughter a general practitioner, Roland Danvers Brinton. Politicians Tim Brinton and Sal Brinton, Baroness Brinton are cousins of Mary Stocks.\n\nHer mother Constance (née Rendel) was related to Eleanor and Philippa Strachey. She attended St Paul's Girls' School. She campaigned for women's suffrage, and joined Millicent Fawcett's moderate National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS) which later became the National Union of Societies for Equal Citizenship (NUSEC). She attended the London School of Economics (LSE), graduating in 1913 with a first-class degree in Economics.\n\nShe married the philosopher John Leofric Stocks in December 1913. He was a fellow of St John's College, Oxford. They had one son and two daughters. \n\nDuring the First World War, Mary Stocks taught at the LSE and King's College, London, while her husband served with in France with the King's Royal Rifle Corps; he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order. \n\nShe was a member of the NUWSS committee; she campaigned for family allowances (finally granted in 1945) and for birth control; she was also an editor of the NUSEC journal \"Woman's Leader\", supported the ordination of women priests, and equal pay for women. She also opposed restrictive women's clothing: as a matter of practicality, she did not wear a hat or make-up, preferred flat shoes, and kept her hair short. She became involved with the Workers' Educational Association.\n\nAfter the war, she moved to Oxford with her husband and taught economic history at Somerville College and Lady Margaret Hall. The family moved to Manchester in 1924, where her husband became a professor of philosophy. She was a magistrate in Manchester from 1930 to 1936. The family moved again to Liverpool in 1937 where her husband was briefly vice-chancellor for 6 months. \n\nAfter her husband died suddenly in 1937, Stocks moved back to London and became secretary of the London Council of Social Service. In 1939, she became Principal of Westfield College where she remained, including a period when the college was temporarily relocated to Oxford during the Second World War, until she retired in 1951.\n\nShe served on a number of official government committees, often as the only woman. \n\nStocks contested the London University seat at the 1945 general election as an Independent Progressive. Her opponent was the sitting MP who stood as an Independent supporter of the Churchill government. She came within 149 votes of winning.\n\nIn 1946 Stocks contested a seat for the Combined English Universities at a by-election as an Independent candidate. The by-election was caused by the death of Eleanor Rathbone (president of the NUSEC, whose biography Stocks wrote in 1949). She was the runner-up amongst five candidates.\n\nStocks obtained wider public recognition in later life, when she became a radio broadcaster and appeared frequently on \"Any Questions?\", on quiz shows and gave religious talks. \n\nShe eventually retired to the House of Lords, having been created a life peer as Baroness Stocks, of the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea on 17 January 1966, where she initially took the Labour Party whip before becoming a cross-bencher in 1974. She wrote her autobiography. She was commissioned to write a book on the first 50th years of the WEA (Workers Educational Association) which had been founded in 1903, published in 1953.\n\nShe received several honorary doctorates, including ones from Manchester University in 1955, Liverpool University in 1956, and Leeds University in 1957. She was a member of the advisory committee to the Anti-Concorde Project.\n\nShe died in Kensington in July 1975, shortly before her 84th birthday.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10198992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10198992", "title": "Nezihe Muhiddin", "text": "Nezihe Muhiddin\n\nNezihe Muhiddin (Modern Turkish: Nezihe Muhittin; 1889 – 10 February, 1958) was a Turkish women's rights activist, suffragette, journalist, writer and political leader.\n\nShe is the founder of the first party of the Republic of Turkey, Kadınlar Halk Fırkası (People’s Party for Women or Women's People Party) in July 1923. KHF was founded for the political and social rights of women. Due to the political situation during the time, it was not recognized officially by the modern Turkish state.\n\nMuhiddin then founded Türk Kadınlar Birliği (Turkish Women's Union). Türk Kadınlar Birliği continued to press for political equality. In 1927 the Union decided to promote a feminist male candidate to champion women's rights in the parliament, but he was unsuccessful.\n\nShe spent her life working to improve the quality of the lives of Turkish women.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4299083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4299083", "title": "No-pan kissa", "text": "No-pan kissa\n\nNo-pan kissa (ノーパン喫茶, literally \"no-panties cafe\") is a Japanese term for maid cafés where the waitresses wear short skirts with no underwear. The floors, or sections of the floor, were sometimes mirrored.\n\nCustomers order drinks and snacks and generally touch, the staff. The shops otherwise look like normal coffee shops, rather than sex establishments, although they charged a premium price for the coffee. Previously, most sex establishments had been establishments, such as soaplands and pink salons, with professional prostitutes. \"No-pan kissa\" were a popular employment choice amongst some women because they paid well and generally required little sexual contact with the customers.\n\nThe first one to open was in Osaka in 1980. Initially, all of them were in remote areas outside the traditional entertainment districts. Within a year, large numbers had opened in many more places, such as major railway stations.\n\nIn the 1980s (the peak of the boom in these shops), many started to have topless or bottomless waitresses. However, at this point, the number of such shops started to decline rapidly.\n\nEventually, such coffee shops gave way to fashion health (massage) clubs and few no-pan kissa, if any, remain. The New Amusement Business Control and Improvement Act came into force on February 13, 1985, which further restricted the sex industry and protected the more traditional businesses.\n\nIn addition to \"no-pan kissa\", there have also been \"no-pan\" shabu-shabu and \"no-pan\" karaoke.\n\n"}
{"id": "118359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=118359", "title": "Open publishing", "text": "Open publishing\n\nOpen publishing is a process of creating news or other content that is transparent to the readers. They can contribute a story and see it instantly appear in the pool of stories publicly available. Those stories are filtered as little as possible to help the readers find the stories they want. Readers can see editorial decisions being made by others. They can see how to get involved and help make editorial decisions. If they can think of a better way for the software to help shape editorial decisions, they can copy the software because it is free and open source to change it and start their own site. If they want to redistribute the news, they can, preferably on an open publishing site.\n\nInternet sites run on open publishing software allow anyone with Internet access to visit the site and upload content directly without having to penetrate the filters of traditional media. Several fundamental principles tend to inform the organizations and sites dedicated to open publishing, though they do so to varying degrees. These principles include non-hierarchy, public participation, minimal editorial control, and transparency.\n\nOpen publishing idea embedded the same concept, although didn't mention Eric S. Raymond's major insight. In open publishing problematic content is shallow. Given a large enough audience, peers, readers and commentators, almost all problematic content will quickly be noticed, highlighted and fixed. Arnison's Law: \"Given enough eyeballs, problematic content is shallow\".\n\nIt should be distinguished from open access publishing – the publishing of material organized in such a way that there is no financial or other barrier to the user. (All or almost all open publishing is in fact also open access.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35486049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35486049", "title": "Penja tribe", "text": "Penja tribe\n\nThe Penja are a Muslim community found in the state of Punjab in India and the Punjab province of Pakistan. They are also known as Naddaf, and in Pakistan their preferred designation is Shaikh Mansoori.\n\nThe Penja like many communities in India have acquired their name from their traditional occupation. In the case of the Penja, they were and many still are cotton carders and produce a coarse thread. They are said to be by origin members of the Teli caste who formed an endogamous sub-group when they changed their occupation from oil pressing to cotton carding. Historically, the Penja community was concentrated in what is now Indian or East Punjab, which led to the migration of the majority of the community to Pakistan at the time of the partition of India in 1947. A rump community is still found in the districts Ropar, Patiala and Sangrur. In Pakistan, the community is found mainly in Faisalabad, Sahiwal, Khanewal and Toba Tek Singh districts, and prefers to be known as Shaikh Mansoori or sometimes just Shaikh. The Penja speak Punjabi, but most who are now settled in Pakistan also speak Urdu. They are entirely Sunni, and are now fairly orthodox.\n\nThe Penja historically practiced the custom of clan exogamy. This practice has now been discontinued. Their larger clans referred to as \"biradarus\" include the Raunji, Dedan, Phapute, Jand, Harim, Sohatte, Ahre, Kamboh, Bedham, Male Hans, Behlim, Alimi, Bhatti, Chauhan, Panwar and Gill. The Penja are strictly endogamous, but there are occasional marriages with the Teli community.\n\nLike most artisan castes, the Penja have seen a decline in their traditional occupation of cotton carding. With the spread of mechanized textile mills, the demand for their traditional coarse thread has disappeared. Many are now employed as agricultural labourers, with animal husbandry being an important subsidiary occupation. In India, the community has been granted Other Backward Class (OBC) status, which allows the community to avail benefits of the Government of India's affirmative action schemes.\n\n"}
{"id": "28573887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28573887", "title": "Public accommodations", "text": "Public accommodations\n\nPublic accommodations, in US law, are generally defined as facilities, both public and private, used by the public. Examples include retail stores, rental establishments, and service establishments as well as educational institutions, recreational facilities, and service centers.\n\nUnder US federal law, public accommodations must be accessible to the disabled and may not discriminate on the basis of \"race, color, religion, or national origin.\" Private clubs were specifically exempted under federal law as well as religious organizations. Title II's definition of public accommodation is limited to \"any inn, hotel, motel, or other establishment which provides lodging to transient guests\" and so is inapplicable to churches. Section 12187 of the ADA also exempts religious organizations from public accommodation laws, but religious organizations are encouraged to comply. \n\nVarious US states have nonuniform laws that provide for nondiscrimination in public accommodations.\n\nFederal legislation dealing with public accommodations include these:\n\nMany states and their subdivisions prohibited discrimination in places of public accommodation prior to the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title II). As of 2015, 45 states have an anti-discrimination public accommodation law for nondisabled individuals. The laws all protect against discrimination based upon race, gender, ethnicity, and religion. There are 19 states that prohibit discrimination in public accommodation based upon age.\n\nSeveral states also have protections for breastfeeding in public. In addition several states provide for non-discrimination in public accommodation when based upon sexual orientation and/or gender identity.\n\nPrivate clubs were exempted under federal law but not in many states' laws. For example, in interpreting a Minnesota law in their 1984 ruling \"Roberts v. United States Jaycees\", the United States Supreme Court declared the previously all-male United States Junior Chamber, a chamber of commerce organization for persons between the ages of 18 and 36, to be a public accommodation, thus compelling it to admit women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21683850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21683850", "title": "Punjabi diaspora", "text": "Punjabi diaspora\n\nThe Punjabi diaspora refers to the descendants of ethnic Punjabis who emigrated out of the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent to the rest of the world. Punjabis are one of the largest ethnic groups in both the Pakistani and Indian diasporas. The Punjabi diaspora numbers around 10 million, mainly concentrated in Britain, North America, Southeast Asia and the Middle East.\n\nPunjabis migrated to Australia from other parts of the Punjabi diaspora, as well from the state of Punjab itself. The Majority were Sikh & Hindu Punjabis instead of Muslims being the majority.\n\n85% of Indo-Canadians in British Columbia are Punjabi Sikhs, including former premier of British Columbia, Ujjal Dosanjh.\n\nIn the Gulf states, the largest group among Pakistani expatriates are the Punjabis.\n\nAmong Hong Kong Indian adolescents, Punjabi is the third most common language other than Cantonese. The Punjabis were influential in the military, and in line with the British military thinking of the time (namely, the late 19th century and early 20th century) Punjabi Sikhs, Punjabi Hindus and Punjabi Muslims formed two separate regiments. The regiments were as follows:\n\n\nIn 1939, Hong Kong's police force included 272 Europeans, 774 Indians (mainly Punjabis) and 1140 Chinese. Punjabis dominated Hong Kong's police force until the 1950s.\n\nFrom the 2006 Government by-census results, it shows a population of roughly 20,444 Indians and roughly 11,111 Pakistanis residing at the former British territory.\n\nThere are 70,000 Punjabis.\n\nMost Kenyan Asians are Gujaratis, but the second largest group are Punjabis.\n\nAlthough most Malaysian Indians are Tamils, there were also many Punjabis that immigrated to Malaysia. According to Amarjit Kaur as of 1993 there were 60, 000 Punjabis in Malaysia. Robin Cohen estimates the number of Malaysian Sikhs as 30, 000 (as of 1995). Recent figures state that there are 130,000 Sikhs in Malaysia.\n\nIn New Zealand, Punjabis are one of the largest group of Indian New Zealanders.\n\nThe third largest group among Indo-Singaporeans in 1980 were Punjabis (after Tamils - who form a majority of Indo-Singaporeans - and Malayalis), at 7.8% of the Indo-Singaporean population. There is Punjabi Society Singapore for Punjabi's to celebrate their festivals, meet other Punjabi's in various occasion through www.punjabisocietysingapore.com\n\nMost Indians in Thailand are Punjabis.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, around two-thirds of direct migrants (excluding South Asians that immigrated from the Caribbean, Fiji and other regions) from South Asia were Punjabi. The remaining third is mostly Gujarati and Bengali. They form a majority of both the South Asian British Sikh and Hindu communities.\n\nMost \"twice-migrants\" were also Punjabi or Gujarati.\n\nThe earliest South Asian immigrants to the United States were Punjabis, who mostly immigrated to the West Coast, particularly California. Half of Pakistani Americans are Punjabis. 85% of the early Indian immigrants to the US were Sikhs, although they were branded by White Americans as \"Hindus\". 90% of Indians who settled in the Central Valley of California were Punjabi Sikhs.\n"}
{"id": "23705847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23705847", "title": "Ring enhancers", "text": "Ring enhancers\n\nRing enhancers, often called Ring Guards, Ring Wraps, or Curved Rings are uniquely designed rings, created to be worn with solitaire diamond rings. The sole purpose of a ring enhancer is to complement a diamond solitaire ring with additional diamonds or gemstones, in order to \"enhance\" the size and appearance of a solitaire engagement ring. When worn together, the two rings appear to be a single, multi-stone ring.\n\nPopular styles of ring enhancers include wrap rings and insert rings. A \"Ring Wrap\" is a single band, contoured to fit around a solitaire diamond ring, displaying additional diamonds on both sides of the center stone. This type of enhancer literally wraps around the solitaire diamond, without completely encircling the center stone. An \"insert ring\" is usually a split, double band which provides a gap between the two bands for the diamond solitaire ring to slide into. With this style of enhancer, accent stones frequently completely encircle the center stone.\n\nWrap rings can serve several purposes. They can be used in addition to a wedding band or can be used as the wedding band itself, creating a coordinated wedding ring set. Wrap rings are sometimes chosen as anniversary gifts or used when renewing wedding vows. In some instances, enhancers have been chosen to wrap around an heirloom solitaire diamond ring, such as a mother’s engagement ring. Generally, these rings are used simply to enhance the appearance of a basic, diamond solitaire ring.\n\nBefore selecting the ring enhancer, you should consider what type of enhancer you would like - Ring Guard, Ring Wrap, Curved Ring or other type of ring enhancer.\n\nWhen selecting a ring enhancer, it is necessary to know both the size and shape of the solitaire diamond worn in conjunction with the enhancer. The shape of the enhancer must conform to the original ring and allow the center stone to fit properly into the wrap or insert. Ring wraps displaying subtle curves are suitable for round diamond center stones. Pointed ring inserts are better suited for marquise or oval shaped diamonds. When selecting a wrap ring, consider choosing a similar metal to that of the engagement ring. In some instances, the wrap ring is soldered to the engagement ring to ensure a snug fit. A big advantage of having both rings made from the same metal type is that the rings will be easier to re-size or repair, if needed. Women with short fingers often use a wedding ring enhancer as their wedding band. Women with long fingers find it easier to wear both a wedding band and a ring enhancer. All of these considerations are important in order for the two rings to blend seamlessly together.\n"}
{"id": "58672200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58672200", "title": "Robert Eugene Brashers", "text": "Robert Eugene Brashers\n\nRobert Eugene Brashers (March 13, 1958 – January 13, 1999) was an American serial killer and Rapist. In 2018 he was identified by CeCe Moore, chief genetic genealogist at Parabon, via genetic genealogy as the murderer of Genevieve Zitricki in Greenville, South Carolina in 1990, the rapist of a 14 year old girl in 1997, and the killer of mother and daughter Sherri and Megan Scherer in Portageville, Missouri in 1998. Brashers died in 1999 from a self-inflicted gunshot wound after he was approached by police officers in Kennett, Missouri. His body was exhumed in 2018 in order to collect a DNA sample and confirm a match to DNA evidence from the crime scenes.\n"}
{"id": "4538473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4538473", "title": "Romani society and culture", "text": "Romani society and culture\n\nThe Romani people have held onto certain traditions and beliefs over time. Their exact origins aren’t clear and even though their culture has been victimized by other cultures, they still found a way to maintain their heritage and society.\n\nLinguistic and phonological research has traced the Roma people's first place of origin to places in the Indian subcontinent, specifically linking Proto-Romani groups to Central India. Many report in extracts from popular literature that Romani emerged from the North-west regions of India, rather than from Central India. Features of phonological developments which emerged during the early transition stage from Old to Middle Indic prove that the history of Romani began in Central India. \nThe Romani language shares many features with the Central Indo-Aryan languages such as the Hindi, Urdu, Punjabi and Rajasthani languages; it also shares connections with Northern Indo-Aryan languages like Kashmiri, and the language itself contains a cluster of Persian and Arabic words. Linguists use these phonological similarities as well as features of phonological developments which emerged during the early transition stage from Old to Middle Indic to conclude that the history of Romani began in Central India.\nOther factors such as blood groups and unwritten customs also suggest Central Indian origins of the Roma. The Roma find issues with documenting their own exact origin due to a lack of finding specific records left by ancestors. Their history however is retold by clan family customs, such as singing and storytelling. \nRecords cannot identify exactly why the Roma migrated from India; there are a number of possible motives, such as famine and military invasions on the part of Alexander the Great (356-323 BCE) and/or Mahmud of Ghazni (971-1030 CE).\n\nThe Romani people are today found in many countries. Typically, Romani adopt given names that are common in the country of their residence. Seldom do modern Romani use traditional names from their own language, such as Papush, Luludi, Patrin, etc. Being the only Indo-Aryan language that has been spoken exclusively around Europe since the Middle Ages, speakers use many terms for their language. They generally refer to their language as řomani čhib translated as ‘the Romani language’, or řomanes, ‘in a Rom way’. The English term, Romani, has been used by scholars since the 19th Century, where previously they had used the term 'Gypsy Language'.\n\nThe traditional Romanies place a high value on the extended family.\n\nMarriage in Romani society underscores the importance of family and demonstrates ties between different groups, often transnationally. Traditionally an arranged marriage is the desired set up, with the parents of each family looking for an ideal partner for their child. Parents rarely force a particular spouse on their child, although being married by your mid twenties is generally regarded as the norm. School, other marriages, and events are also a popular environment for finding a prospective spouse, however they should be supervised by an adult. With the emergence of social media such as Facebook and mobile phones, and education in women becoming more prominent, traditional and conservative views are becoming less rigid. In some Roma groups, for example the Finnish Roma, the idea of marriage is ignored altogether.\n\nTraditionally, it is a patriarchal society and virginity is considered essential in unmarried women, this is because it is a visible representation of the girl's representation and the honour of her family. Men and women often marry young. The Romani practice of child marriage has generated controversy in many countries. In 2003, one of the many self-styled Romani \"kings\", Ilie Tortică, prohibited marriage before the parties were of legal age in their country of residence. A Romani patriarch, Florin Cioabă, ran afoul of Romanian authorities in late 2003 when he married off his youngest daughter, Ana-Maria at the age of twelve, well below the legal marriageable age.\n\nBride kidnapping is thought to be a traditional Romani practice. Girls as young as twelve years old may be kidnapped for marriage to teenage boys. This practice has been reported in Ireland, England, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Bulgaria and Slovakia. Kidnapping has been seen as a way to avoid a bride price or a way for a girl to marry a boy she wants but that her parents do not want. The tradition's normalisation of kidnapping puts young women at higher risk of becoming victims of human trafficking.\n\nThe practices of bride kidnapping and child marriage are not universally accepted throughout Romani culture. Some Romani women and men seek to eliminate such customs.\n\nRomani customs often establish that the groom's family must pay a bride price to the bride's parents. Romani social behaviour is strictly regulated by purity laws (\"marime\" or \"marhime\") respected by most Romanis and among Sinti groups by the elder generations. This regulation affects many aspects of life and is applied to actions, people, and things.\n\nParts of the human body are considered impure: the genital organs, because they produce impure emissions, and the lower body. Fingernails and toenails must be filed with an emery board; cutting them with a clipper is taboo.\n\nClothes for the lower body, as well as the clothes of menstruating women, are washed separately. Items used for eating are washed in a different place.\n\nChildbirth is considered \"impure\" and must occur outside the dwelling place; the mother is considered \"impure\" for 40 days.\n\nDeath is seen as \"impure\" and affects the whole family of the dead, who may remain \"impure\" for a period after the death; usually private items of the dead are considered to be impure and are to be buried in his/her grave or given to non-Romani poor people. It should be noted that \"impure\" is not literal but rather linked to cleanliness.\n\nMany of these practices are also present in Hindu cultures. However, unlike the Hindu practice of burning the dead (There are burial in certain Hindu traditions as well), Romani culture requires that the dead must be buried. Notable deviations from this practice exist among German Romanies and British Romanichal, the latter holding a tradition of cremation similar to that of some Hindu cultures. Up until the mid-20th century they invariably burned the deceased person and all their earthly belongings, including the dwelling place, all which was considered spiritually impure. During the latter half of the 20th century British Romanichal began adopting the burial customs of their Continental cousins. It is believed the soul of the deceased does not officially enter Heaven until after the burial.\n\nRomani people incorporate their values into how they raise their children. There is an element of impurity placed upon both the mother and father after the mother gives birth. This impurity is lessened if the child is a male and the family is considered “lucky”. Traditionally, the couple will live with the father of the groom until their first child is born. Romani people place high value on extended family so godparents, along with this other family, are active in the child’s life to ensure its well-being. The child’s parents often do not have an input in what their child eats throughout the day, so the child relies on eating whatever happens to come their way.\n\n\"Romanipen\" (also \"romanypen\", \"romanipe\", \"romanype\", \"romanimos\", \"romaimos\", \"romaniya\") is a complicated term of Romani philosophy that means totality of the Romani spirit, culture, law, being a Romani, a set of Romani strains.\n\nAn ethnic Romani is considered to be a Gadjo (non-Romani) in the Romani society if he has no Romanipen. Sometimes a non-Romani may be considered to be a Romani if he has Romanipen, (usually that is an adopted child). As a concept, Romanipen has been the subject of interest to numerous academic observers. It has been hypothesized that it owes more to a framework of culture rather than simply an adherence to historically received rules.\n\nSignificant changes in Romani culture following the Second World War have been attributed to the suspension of these social norms as strict rules relating to food and to contact with certain classes of people broke down. This period also coincided with a perceived loss of authority invested in traditional leaders, the primary maintainers of Romanipen. Furthermore, the Roma who found themselves under Soviet control during the war, while deported to the east of the Urals and often persecuted, were generally left alone to follow their orthodox practices and thus preserved strict interpretations of Romanipen. However, the Roma who lived in other countries of eastern Europe, in the face of widespread discrimination and society's attempt of forced assimilation, often had to compromise their strict interpretation of the customs just in order to survive. As a result, the whole concept of Romanipen became interpreted differently among various Roma groups.\n\nA considerable punishment for a Rom is expulsion from Romani society. An expelled person is considered to be \"contaminated\" and is shunned by other Romanis.\n\nTravelling Romanis left symbols or signposts for their traveling fellows, known as patrins (an old word for leaf).\n\nRomani Code, or \"Romano Zakono\", is the most important part of Romanipen. It is a set of rules for Romani life.\n\nThough Romani ethnic groups have different sets of rules, some rules are common for all. Those rules are considered to be the Romani Code, and rules that differ are called \"customs\". The oral Romani cultures are most likely to adhere to the Romani code, these communities are geographically spread. There are proverbs about Romani Code and customs, such as:\n\n\nRules of Romani Code describe relationships inside the Romani community and set limits for customs, behavior and other aspects of life.\n\nThe Romani Code is not written; the Romani people keep it alive in oral tradition.\n\nThe \"kris\" is a traditional institution for upholding and enforcing the Romani Code.\n\nThe code can be summarised in pillars; the main pillar representing the polar ideas of \"baxt\" (pronounced \"baht\") meaning honour and \"ladž\" meaning shame. Linking to the article above in reference to \"purity\" they can also represent the idea of being \"pure\" or \"clean\" and \"impure\" and \"unclean\" It is honourable, in Romani culture, to celebrate \"baxt\" by being generous and displaying your success to the public. The focus on generosity means sharing food is of great importance to some groups of Romani people. Making lavish meals to share with other Rom visitors is commonplace and in some cases not having food to share is considered shameful.\n\nWhile in India, the Romani people followed the Hindu religion. This theory is supported by the Romani word for \"cross\", \"trushul\", which is the word which describes Shiva's trident (Trishul). A Hindu foundation means that the concept of \"kuntari\", a universal balance, is central to the people's spirituality. \"Kuntari\" means that all things belong in the universe according to their natural place. However, animals such as the flightless hen and frogs, an animal with the ability to negotiate land and water, are considered to be out of balance and are, therefore, inherently unlucky. Consequently, Romani avoid hens' eggs and frogs. The Romani believe in the notion of \"pollution\", whereby the human body is vulnerable to pollution following the breaking of certain taboos—pollution leads to a person becoming out of balance, like the frog and the hen.\n\nIf such taboos are broken, restoration of one's purity can only be attained through a trial overseen by a tribunal of Romani elders. This tribunal determines whether a person is guilty or innocent and, in the case of the former, the subject of the trial must complete a period of isolation for the purpose of eventual reinstatement (in particularly severe cases of pollution, permanent estrangement has occurred, but this is apparently rare in the modern era). Such pollution taboos do not apply until a Romani has undergone puberty.\n\nChristianity and Islam have been adopted by Romanis.\n\nBlessed Ceferino Giménez Malla is considered a patron saint of the Romani people in Roman Catholicism. Saint Sarah, or Kali Sara, has been revered as a patron saint in the same manner as the Blessed Ceferino Giménez Malla, but a transition occurred in the 21st century, whereby Kali Sara is understood as an Indian deity brought by the refugee ancestors of the Romani people, thereby removing any Christian association. Saint Sarah is progressively being considered as \"a Romani goddess, the Protectress of the Roma\" and an \"indisputable link with Mother India\".\n\nRomanies often adopt the dominant religion of their host country if a ceremony associated with a formal religious institution is necessary, such as a baptism or funeral (their particular belief systems and indigenous religion and worship remain preserved regardless of such adoption processes). The Romani continue to practice \"Shaktism\", a practice with origins in India, whereby a female consort is required for the worship of a god. Adherence to this practice means that for the Romani who worship a Christian God, prayer is conducted through the Virgin Mary, or her mother, Saint Anne. Shaktism continues over 1,000 years after the people's separation from India.\n\nBesides the Romani elders, who serve as spiritual leaders, priests, churches, or bibles do not exist among the Romanies. The only exception is the Pentecostal Roma.\n\nFor the Romani communities that have resided in the Balkans for centuries, often referred to as \"Turkish Gypsies\", the following histories apply for religious beliefs:\n\n\nIn the Balkans, the Romanies of Macedonia and southern Serbia, including the disputed territory of Kosovo, have been particularly active in Islamic mystical brotherhoods (Sufism)—Muslim Roma immigrants to Western Europe and America have brought these traditions with them.\n\nUkraine and Russia contain Romani Muslim populations, as the families of Balkans migrants continue to live there. The descendants' ancestors settled on the Crimean peninsula during the 17th and 18th centuries, but most descendants migrated to Ukraine, southern Russia and the Povolzhie (along the Volga River). Formally, Islam is the religion that these communities align themselves with, and the people are recognized for its staunch preservation of the Romani language and identity.\n\nMost Eastern European Romanies are Roman Catholic, Orthodox Christian, or Muslim. Those in Western Europe and the United States are mostly Roman Catholic or Protestant. In southern Spain, many Romani are Pentecostal), but this is a small minority that has emerged in contemporary times. In Egypt, the Romanis are split into Christian and Muslim populations. For countless years, dance has been considered a religious procedure for the Egyptian Romanies. In Turkey, the Romani people are Muslim and the male got a Khitan (circumcision), while the majority of Romani in Latin America have maintained their European religions, with most following Orthodox Christianity.\n\nSince World War II, a growing number of Romanis have embraced Evangelical movements. For the first time, Romanies became ministers and created their own, autonomous churches and missionary organizations. In some countries, the majority of Romani belong to the Romani churches. This unexpected change has greatly contributed to a better image of Romanis in society. The work they perform is seen as more legitimate, and they have begun to obtain legal permits for commercial activities.\n\nEvangelical Romani churches exist in every country where Romanis are settled. The movement is particularly strong in France and Spain; there are more than 1,000 Romani churches (known as \"Filadelfia\" or simply \"el culto\") in Spain, with almost 100 in Madrid alone. In Germany, the most numerous group is that of Polish Romanis, with their main church in Mannheim. Other important and numerous Romani assemblies are in Los Angeles, Houston, Buenos Aires, and Mexico.\n\nThe lăutari who perform at traditional Romanian weddings are virtually all Roma, although their music draws from a vast variety of ethnic traditions—for example Romanian, Turkish, Jewish, and Slavic—as well as Romani traditions. Probably the most internationally prominent contemporary performer in the \"lăutari\" tradition is Taraful Haiducilor. Zdob şi Zdub, one of the most prominent rock bands in Moldova, although not Romani themselves, draw heavily on Roman music, as do Spitalul de Urgenţă in Romania.\n\nFlamenco music and dance came from the Romani in Spain; the distinctive sound of Romani music has also strongly influenced bolero, jazz, and Cante Jondo in Europe. European-style Gypsy jazz is still widely practised among the original creators (the Romani People); one who acknowledged this artistic debt was Django Reinhardt.\n\nRomani music is very important in Eastern European cultures such as Hungary, Russia, and Romania. Performance practices by Romani musicians have influenced European classical composers such as Franz Liszt and Johannes Brahms. Several renowned classical musicians are Romani.\n\nThe Romani language is spoken by millions of Romani people throughout the world. It is of the Indo-Aryan branch. Many Romani people are bilingual and can speak two or more languages.\n\nEach June, Gypsy Roma Traveller History Month is celebrated in London. International Romani Day is a holiday celebrated in Europe especially in Budapest, Bulgaria, Romania and Eastern Europe on April 8th. Romani people wave the Romani flag on International Romani Day every April 8th.\nIn Hungary, there is a Romani influence on Hungarian food. Many Hungarian dishes have a Romani variation such as cigánypecsenye and goulash. Rigo Jancsi, a Hungarian dessert is named after a Hungarian Roma. Romani people cook family recipes such as bodag (cigánykenyér) in Hungary. There is a Romani restaurant called Romani Kafenava in Maribor, Slovenia. In Budapest, there is Romani restaurant called Romani Platni. In Romania, Romani people eat mămăligă. There’s a Romani cookbook called the Gypsy cookbook. Romani people drink a lot of tea and there is a tea brand based off Romani people called Zhena’s Gypsy Tea.\n\nThere exist four well-known Romani theatres in the world, Romen Theatre, Romance Theatre, Romanothan and Phralipe, and also many small theatres.\n\nA stereotype that Romani people have psychic powers (e.g. fortune-teller) is still sometimes present, and some romantics attribute the invention of the Tarot cards to them.\n\nBecause of their nomadic lifestyle and differences in language and culture, Romanies and their more settled neighbours have held each other in distrust. The popular image of Romanies as tramps and thieves unfit for work contributed to their widespread persecution. This belief is often cited as the etymological source of the term \"gyp\", meaning to \"cheat\", as in \"I got gypped by a con man.\"\n\nThere are still tensions between the Romanies and the majority population around them. Common complaints are that Romanies steal and live off social welfare and residents often reject Romani encampments. This has led to Romani being described as gypsies \"perhaps the most hated minority in Europe.\" In the UK, travellers (referring to both Irish Travellers and Romanies) became a 2005 general election issue, with Michael Howard, the then-leader of the Conservative Party promising to review the Human Rights Act 1998. This law, which absorbs the European Convention on Human Rights into UK primary legislation, is seen by some to permit the granting of retrospective planning permission for Romani communities. Severe population pressures and the paucity of greenfield sites have led to travellers purchasing land and setting up residential settlements almost overnight, thus subverting the planning restrictions imposed on other members of the community. Travellers argued in response that thousands of retrospective planning permissions are granted in Britain in cases involving non-Romanies applicants each year and that statistics showed that 90% of planning applications by Romanies and travellers were initially refused by local councils, compared with a national average of 20% for other applicants, potentially disproving claims of preferential treatment favouring Gypsies. They also argued that the root of the problem was that many traditional stopping-places had been barricaded off and that legislation passed by the previous Conservative government had effectively criminalised their communities by removing local authorities' responsibility to provide sites, thus leaving the travellers with no option but to purchase unregistered new sites themselves.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies in the United States hold regular conferences on the Romanies and similar nomadic groups.\n\nIn Denmark, there was much controversy when the city of Helsingør decided to put all Romani students in special classes in its public schools. The classes were later abandoned after it was determined that they were discriminatory and the Romani were put back in regular classes.\n\nIn Eastern Europe, Romani often live in depressed squatter communities with very high unemployment, while only some are fully integrated in the society. However, in some cases—notably the Kalderash clan in Romania, who work as traditional coppersmiths—they have prospered. Although some Romani still embrace a nomadic lifestyle, most migration is actually forced, as most communities do not accept Romani settlements. However, each year in May approximately 10,000 to 15,000 Romani people pilgrimage to Les-Saintes-Marie-de-la-Mer in Southern France. Romani arrive in caravans for celebrations, weddings and religious ceremonies.\n\nMany countries that were formerly part of the Eastern bloc and former Yugoslavia have substantial populations of Romanies. The level of integration of Romanies into society remains limited. In these countries, they usually remain on the margins of society, living in isolated, ghetto-like settlements (see Chánov). Only a small fraction of Romani children graduate from secondary schools, though numerous official efforts have been made, past and present, to compel their attendance. Romanies frequently feel rejected by the state and the main population, creating another obstacle to their integration.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, 75% of Romani children are educated in schools for people with learning difficulties and 70% are unemployed, compared with a national rate of 9%. In Hungary, 44% of Romani children are in special schools, while 74% of men and 83% of women are unemployed. In Slovakia, Romani children are 28 times more likely to be sent to a special school than non-Romani, whilst Romani unemployment stands at 80%.\n\nIn 2004, Lívia Járóka and Viktória Mohácsi of Hungary became the two current Romani Members of the European Parliament. The first Romani MEP was Juan de Dios Ramírez Heredia of Spain.\n\nSeven former Communist Central European and Southeastern European states launched the Decade of Roma Inclusion initiative in 2005 to improve the socioeconomic conditions and status of the Romani minority.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13088608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13088608", "title": "Sa'ban people", "text": "Sa'ban people\n\nThe Sa'ban, Sa'baan or Saban people, are an indigenous Dayak people of Sarawak, Malaysia and East Kalimantan, Indonesia. They are categorised under the Orang Ulu groups in Malaysia and have a close ties with the Kelabit people.\n\nWith a population of approximately less than 1,000 people, the Saban considered as one of the smallest ethnic groups in Sarawak. Over the last 20 years, most of them had moved to urban areas (mainly Miri) for better living and employment opportunities. The rest still live in their homeland, Long Banga, Long Puak (formerly known as Long Ballong) and Long Peluan.\n\nBeing an offshoot of Kelabit tribes, they share a lot of thing in common especially in term of cultures, traditions and customs. Most can understand the Kelabit language very well due to the similarities with their own.\n\nSome simple phrases in Sa'ban:\n\n"}
{"id": "28538842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28538842", "title": "Sauria Paharia people", "text": "Sauria Paharia people\n\nThe Sauria Paharia people (also known as Maler Paharia) are a tribal people of West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand in India. Sauria Paharia are listed as Scheduled Tribe by the Government of West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand. They are found mostly in Santhal Parganas.\n\nAccording to Oraon traditions, when they were driven out of their home in the Son valley, the main group migrated towards Palamu but a smaller group moved down the Gangetic valley till they reached Rajmahal Hills, where they settled mostly in Damin-i-koh. The language of the Sauria Paharias is closely linked to that of the Oraons.\n\nSauria Paharias are listed as a primitive tribe and have a population of around 30,000 in Jharkhand, with a possible negligible population in West Bengal. They constitute less than 1 per cent of the tribal population in Jharkhand.\n\nSauria Paharias resort to shifting cultivation. They lead family lives.\n\nThe Saurias are divided into three distinct cultural groups, namely the Probia, the Bare and the Chete.\n"}
{"id": "53529381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53529381", "title": "South Australia proof of age card", "text": "South Australia proof of age card\n\nThe South Australia Proof of age card is an identity photo card available to residents of South Australia over the age of 18. It is available to drivers and non-drivers primarily as an identity document and to access places restricted to persons over the age of 18.\n\nA key convenience of the card is that it can be obtained through an online application if the applicant has a drivers licence.\n"}
{"id": "28937240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28937240", "title": "Strauss–Howe generational theory", "text": "Strauss–Howe generational theory\n\nThe Strauss–Howe generational theory, also known as the Fourth Turning theory or simply the Fourth Turning, which was created by authors William Strauss and Neil Howe, describes a theorized recurring generation cycle in American history. \n\nAccording to the theory, historical events are associated with recurring generational personas (Archetype). These generational personas unleash a new era (called a turning) in which a new social, political, and economic climate exists. These successive eras (turnings) tend to last around 20–22 years. \n\nThese eras are then part of a larger cyclical \"saeculum\" (a long human life, which usually spans between 80–90 years, although some \"saecula\" have lasted longer).\n\nThe theory states that after every Saeculum, a crisis recurs in American history, which is followed by a recovery (high).\n\nDuring this recovery, institutions and communitarian values are strong. Ultimately, succeeding generational archetypes attack and weaken institutions in the name of autonomy and individualism, which ultimately creates a tumultuous political environment that ripens conditions for another crisis. \n\nStrauss and Howe laid the groundwork for their theory in their 1991 book \"Generations\", which discusses the history of the United States as a series of generational biographies going back to 1584. In their 1997 book \"The Fourth Turning\", the authors expanded the theory to focus on a fourfold cycle of generational types and recurring mood eras in American history. They have since expanded on the concept in a variety of publications.\n\nThe theory was developed to describe the history of the United States, including the Thirteen Colonies and their British antecedents, and this is where the most detailed research has been done. However, the authors have also examined generational trends elsewhere in the world and described similar cycles in several developed countries.\n\nIn a 2009 article published in \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", Eric Hoover called the authors pioneers in a burgeoning industry of consultants, speakers and researchers focused on generations. Academic response to the theory has been mixed—some applauding Strauss and Howe for their \"bold and imaginative thesis\" and others criticizing the theory. Criticism has focused on the lack of rigorous empirical evidence for their claims, and a perception that aspects of the argument gloss over real differences within the population.\n\nWilliam Strauss and Neil Howe's partnership began in the late 1980s when they began writing their first book \"Generations\", which discusses the history of the United States as a succession of generational biographies. Each had written on generational topics: Strauss on Baby Boomers and the Vietnam War draft, and Howe on the G.I. Generation and federal entitlement programs. Strauss co-wrote two books with Lawrence Baskir about how the Vietnam War affected the Baby Boomers (\"Chance and Circumstance: The Draft the War and The Vietnam Generation\" (1978) and \"Reconciliation after Vietnam\" (1977)). Neil Howe studied what he believed to be the US's entitlement attitude of the 1980s and co-authored \"On Borrowed Time: How America's entitlement ego puts America's future at risk of Bankruptcy\" in 1988 with Peter George Peterson. The authors' interest in generations as a broader topic emerged after they met in Washington, D.C., and began discussing the connections between each of their previous works.\n\nThey wondered why Boomers and G.I.s had developed such different ways of looking at the world, and what it was about these generations’ experiences growing up that prompted their different outlooks. They also wondered whether any previous generations had acted along similar lines, and their research discussed historical analogues to the current generations. The two ultimately described a recurring pattern in Anglo-American history of four generational types, each with a distinct collective persona, and a corresponding cycle of four different types of era, each with a distinct mood. The groundwork for this theory was laid out in \"Generations\" in 1991. Strauss and Howe expanded on their theory and updated the terminology in \"The Fourth Turning\" in 1997. \"Generations\" helped popularize the idea that people in a particular age group tend to share a distinct set of beliefs, attitudes, values and behaviors because they all grow up and come of age during a particular period in history.\n\nIn their books \"Generations\" (1991) and \"The Fourth Turning\" (1997), Strauss and Howe discussed the generation gap between Baby Boomers and their parents and predicted there would be no such generation gap between Millennials and their elders. In 2000, they published \"Millennials Rising\". A 2000 \"New York Times\" book review for this book titled: \"What's the Matter With Kids Today? Not a Thing\", described the message of \"Millennials Rising\" as “we boomers are raising a cohort of kids who are smarter, more industrious and better behaved than any generation before”, saying the book complimented the Baby Boomer cohort by complimenting their parenting skills.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the authors began receiving inquiries about how their generational research could be applied to strategic problems in organizations. Strauss and Howe were quickly established as pioneers in a growing field, and started speaking frequently about their work at events and conferences. In 1999, Strauss and Howe founded LifeCourse Associates, a publishing, speaking and consulting company built on their generational theory. As LifeCourse partners, they have offered keynote speeches, consulting services, and customized communications to corporate, nonprofit, government, and education clients. They have also written six books in which they assert that the Millennial Generation is transforming various sectors, including schools, colleges, entertainment, and the workplace. \n\nOn December 18, 2007, William Strauss died at the age of 60 from pancreatic cancer. Neil Howe continues to expand LifeCourse Associates and to write books and articles on a variety of generational topics. Each year Mr. Howe gives about 60 speeches, often followed by customized workshops, at colleges, elementary schools, and corporations. Neil Howe is a public policy adviser to the Blackstone Group, senior adviser to the Concord Coalition, and senior associate to the Center for Strategic and International Studies.\n\nSteve Bannon, former Chief Strategist and Senior Counselor to President Trump is a prominent proponent of the theory. As a documentary filmmaker Bannon discussed the details of Strauss–Howe generational theory in \"Generation Zero\". According to historian David Kaiser, who was consulted for the film, \"Generation Zero\" “focused on the key aspect of their theory, the idea that every 80 years American history has been marked by a crisis, or 'fourth turning', that destroyed an old order and created a new one”. Kaiser said Bannon is \"very familiar with Strauss and Howe’s theory of crisis, and has been thinking about how to use it to achieve particular goals for quite a while.\" A February 2017 article from \"Business Insider\" titled: \"Steve Bannon's obsession with a dark theory of history should be worrisome\", commented: \"Bannon seems to be trying to bring about the 'Fourth Turning'.\"\n\nStrauss and Howe's work combines history with prophecy. They provided historical information regarding living and past generations and made various predictions. Many of their predictions were regarding the Millennial Generation, who were young children when they began their work, thus lacking significant historical data. In their first book \"Generations\" (1991), Strauss and Howe describe the history of the US as a succession of Anglo-American generational biographies from 1584 to the present, and they describe a theorized recurring generational cycle in American history. The authors posit a pattern of four repeating phases, generational types and a recurring cycle of spiritual awakenings and secular crises, from the founding colonials of America through the present day.\n\nStrauss and Howe followed in 1993 with their second book \"13th Gen: Abort, Retry, Ignore, Fail?\", which was published while Gen Xers were young adults. The book examines the generation born between 1961 and 1981, \"Gen-Xers\" (which they called \"13ers\", describing them as the thirteenth generation since the US became a nation). The book asserts that 13ers' location in history as under protected children during the Consciousness Revolution explains their pragmatic attitude. They describe Gen Xers as growing up during a time when society was less focused on children and more focused on adults and their self-actualization.\n\nIn 1997, the authors published \"The Fourth Turning: An American Prophecy,\" which expanded on the ideas presented in \"Generations\" and extended their cycles back into the early 15th century. The authors began the use of more colorful names for generational archetypes - e.g. \"Civics\" became \"Heroes\" (which they applied to the Millennial Generation), \"Adaptives\" became \"Artists\" - and of the terms \"Turning\" and \"Saeculum\" for the generational cycles. The title is a reference to what their first book called a Crisis period, which they expected to recur soon after the turn of the millennium.\n\nIn 2000, the two authors published \"Millennials Rising: The Next Great Generation\". This work discussed the personality of the Millennial Generation, whose oldest members were described as the high school graduating class of the year 2000. In this 2000 book, Strauss and Howe asserted that Millennial teens and young adults were recasting the image of youth from \"downbeat and alienated to upbeat and engaged\". They credited increased parental attention and protection for these positive changes. They asserted Millennials are held to higher standards than adults apply to themselves and that they're a lot less vulgar and violent than the teen culture older people produce for them. They described them as less sexually charged and as ushering in a new sexual modesty, with increasing belief that sex should be saved for marriage and a return to conservative family values. They predicted that over the following decade, Millennials would transform what it means to be young. According to the authors, Millennials could emerge as the next \"Great Generation\". The book was described as an optimistic, feel-good book for the parents of the Millennial Generation, predominantly the Baby Boomers.\n\nStrauss and Howe define a social generation as the aggregate of all people born over a span of roughly twenty years or about the length of one phase of life: childhood, young adulthood, midlife, and old age. Generations are identified (from first birthyear to last) by looking for cohort groups of this length that share three criteria. First, members of a generation share what the authors call an \"age location in history\": they encounter key historical events and social trends while occupying the same phase of life. In this view, members of a generation are shaped in lasting ways by the eras they encounter as children and young adults and they share certain common \"beliefs and behaviors\". Aware of the experiences and traits that they share with their peers, members of a generation would also share a sense of common \"perceived membership\" in that generation.\n\nStrauss and Howe say they based their definition of a generation on the work of various writers and social thinkers, from ancient writers such as Polybius and Ibn Khaldun to modern social theorists such as José Ortega y Gasset, Karl Mannheim, John Stuart Mill, Émile Littré, Auguste Comte, and François Mentré.\n\nWhile writing \"Generations\", Strauss and Howe described a theorized pattern in the historical generations they examined, which they say revolved around generational events which they call turnings. In \"Generations\", and in greater detail in \"The Fourth Turning\", they describe a four-stage cycle of social or mood eras which they call \"turnings\". The turnings include: \"The High\", \"The Awakening\", \"The Unraveling\" and \"The Crisis\".\n\nAccording to Strauss and Howe, the First Turning is a High, which occurs after a Crisis. During \"The High\" institutions are strong and individualism is weak. Society is confident about where it wants to go collectively, though those outside the majoritarian center often feel stifled by the conformity.\n\nAccording to the authors, the most recent First Turning in the US was the post–World War II American High, beginning in 1946 and ending with the assassination of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963.\n\nAccording to the theory, the Second Turning is an Awakening. This is an era when institutions are attacked in the name of personal and spiritual autonomy. Just when society is reaching its high tide of public progress, people suddenly tire of social discipline and want to recapture a sense of \"self-awareness\", \"spirituality\" and \"personal authenticity\". Young activists look back at the previous High as an era of cultural and spiritual poverty.\n\nStrauss & Howe say the US's most recent Awakening was the “Consciousness Revolution,” which spanned from the campus and inner-city revolts of the mid-1960s to the tax revolts of the early 1980s.\n\nAccording to Strauss and Howe, the Third Turning is an Unraveling. The mood of this era they say is in many ways the opposite of a High: Institutions are weak and distrusted, while individualism is strong and flourishing. The authors say Highs come after Crises, when society wants to coalesce and build and avoid the death and destruction of the previous crisis. Unravelings come after Awakenings, when society wants to atomize and enjoy. They say the most recent Unraveling in the US began in the 1980s and includes the Long Boom and Culture War.\n\nAccording to the authors, the Fourth Turning is a Crisis. This is an era of destruction, often involving war or revolution, in which institutional life is destroyed and rebuilt in response to a perceived threat to the nation's survival. After the crisis, civic authority revives, cultural expression redirects towards community purpose, and people begin to locate themselves as members of a larger group.\n\nThe authors say the previous Fourth Turning in the US began with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and climaxed with the end of World War II. The G.I. Generation (which they call a Hero archetype, born 1901 to 1924) came of age during this era. They say their confidence, optimism, and collective outlook epitomized the mood of that era. The authors assert the Millennial Generation (which they also describe as a Hero archetype, born 1982 to 2004) show many similar traits to those of the G.I. youth, which they describe as including: rising civic engagement, improving behavior, and collective confidence.\n\nThe authors describe each turning as lasting about 20–22 years. Four turnings make up a full cycle of about 80 to 90 years, which the authors term a \"saeculum\", after the Latin word meaning both \"a long human life\" and \"a natural century\".\n\nGenerational change drives the cycle of turnings and determines its periodicity. As each generation ages into the next life phase (and a new social role) society’s mood and behavior fundamentally changes, giving rise to a new turning. Therefore, a symbiotic relationship exists between historical events and generational personas. Historical events shape generations in childhood and young adulthood; then, as parents and leaders in midlife and old age, generations in turn shape history.\n\nEach of the four turnings has a distinct mood that recurs every saeculum. Strauss and Howe describe these turnings as the \"seasons of history\". At one extreme is the Awakening, which is analogous to summer, and at the other extreme is the Crisis, which is analogous to winter. The turnings in between are transitional seasons, similar to autumn and spring. Strauss and Howe have discussed 26 theorized turnings over 7 saecula in Anglo-American history, from the year 1435 through today.\n\nAt the heart of Strauss & Howe's ideas is a basic alternation between two different types of eras, Crises and Awakenings. Both of these are defining eras in which people observe that historic events are radically altering their social environment. Crises are periods marked by major secular upheaval, when society focuses on reorganizing the outer world of institutions and public behavior (they say the last American Crisis was the period spanning the Great Depression and World War II). Awakenings are periods marked by cultural or religious renewal, when society focuses on changing the inner world of values and private behavior (the last American Awakening was the \"Consciousness Revolution\" of the 1960s and 1970s).\n\nDuring Crises, great peril provokes a societal consensus, an ethic of personal sacrifice, and strong institutional order. During Awakenings, an ethic of individualism emerges, and the institutional order is attacked by new social ideals and spiritual agendas. According to the authors, about every eighty to ninety years—the length of a long human life—a national Crisis occurs in American society. Roughly halfway to the next Crisis, a cultural Awakening occurs (historically, these have often been called Great Awakenings).\n\nIn describing this cycle of Crises and Awakenings, Strauss and Howe draw from the work of other historians and social scientists who have also discussed long cycles in American and European history. The Strauss–Howe cycle of Crises corresponds with long cycles of war identified by such scholars as Arnold J. Toynbee, Quincy Wright, and L. L. Ferrar Jr., and with geopolitical cycles identified by William R. Thompson and George Modelski. Strauss and Howe say their cycle of Awakenings corresponds with Anthony Wallace's work on revitalization movements; they also say recurring Crises and Awakenings correspond with two-stroke cycles in politics (Walter Dean Burnham, Arthur Schlesinger Sr. and Jr.), foreign affairs (Frank L. Klingberg), and the economy (Nikolai Kondratieff) as well as with long-term oscillations in crime and substance abuse.\n\nThe authors say two different types of eras and two formative age locations associated with them (childhood and young adulthood) produce four generational \"archetypes\" that repeat sequentially, in rhythm with the cycle of Crises and Awakenings. In \"Generations\", Strauss and Howe refer to these four archetypes as \"Idealist, Reactive, Civic,\" and \"Adaptive\". In \"The Fourth Turning\" (1997) they change this terminology to \"Prophet, Nomad, Hero,\" and \"Artist\". They say the generations in each archetype not only share a similar age-location in history, they also share some basic attitudes towards family, risk, culture and values, and civic engagement. In essence, generations shaped by similar early-life experiences develop similar collective personas and follow similar life-trajectories. To date, Strauss and Howe have described 25 generations in Anglo-American history, each with a corresponding archetype. The authors describe the archetypes as follows:\n\nProphet (Idealist) generations enter childhood \"during a High\", a time of rejuvenated community life and consensus around a new societal order. Prophets grow up as the increasingly indulged children of this post-Crisis era, come of age as self-absorbed young crusaders of an Awakening, focus on morals and principles in midlife, and emerge as elders guiding another Crisis. Examples: Transcendental Generation, Missionary Generation, Baby Boomers.\n\nFamous prophets: Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Delano Roosevelt\n\nNomad (Reactive) generations enter childhood \"during an Awakening\", a time of social ideals and spiritual agendas, when young adults are passionately attacking the established institutional order. Nomads grow up as under-protected children during this Awakening, come of age as alienated, post-Awakening adults, become pragmatic midlife leaders during a Crisis, and age into resilient post-Crisis elders. Examples: Gilded Generation, Lost Generation, Generation X\n\nFamous Nomads: John D Rockefeller and Jeff Bezos\n\nHero (Civic) generations enter childhood \"after an Awakening\", \"during an Unraveling\", a time of individual pragmatism, self-reliance, and laissez-faire. Heroes grow up as increasingly protected post-Awakening children, come of age as team-oriented young optimists during a Crisis, emerge as energetic, overly-confident midlifers, and age into politically powerful elders attacked by another Awakening. Examples: G.I. Generation, Millennials\n\nFamous Heroes: Thomas Jefferson and John F Kennedy\n\nArtist (Adaptive) generations enter childhood \"after an Unraveling,\" \"during a Crisis\", a time when great dangers cut down social and political complexity in favor of public consensus, aggressive institutions, and an ethic of personal sacrifice. Artists grow up overprotected by adults preoccupied with the Crisis, come of age as the socialized and conformist young adults of a post-Crisis world, break out as process-oriented midlife leaders during an Awakening, and age into thoughtful post-Awakening elders. Examples: Silent Generation, Homelanders\n\nFamous Artists: Martin Luther King Jr and Theodore Roosevelt\n\n\nNote (0): Strauss and Howe base the turning start and end dates not on the generational birth year span, but when the prior generation is entering adulthood. A generation \"coming of age\" is signaled by a \"triggering event\" that marks the turning point and the ending of one turning and the beginning of the new. For example, the \"triggering event\" that marked the coming of age for the Baby Boom Generation was the Assassination of John F. Kennedy. This marked the end of a first turning and the beginning of a second turning. This is why turning start and end dates don't match up exactly with the generational birth years, but they tend to start and end a few years after the generational year spans. This also explains why a generation is described to have \"entered childhood\" during a particular turning, rather than \"born during\" a particular turning.\n\nNote (1): According to Strauss and Howe their generational types have appeared in Anglo-American history in a fixed order for more than 500 years with one hitch, occurring in the Civil War Saeculum. They say the reason for this is because according to the chart, the Civil War came about ten years too early; the adult generations allowed the worst aspects of their generational personalities to come through; and the Progressives grew up scarred rather than ennobled.\n\nNote (2): Strauss and Howe initially used the name \"13th Generation\" in their book \"Generations\", which was published mere weeks before Douglas Coupland's \"\" was, but later adopted \"Generation X\" when it became the more widely accepted term for the cohort. The generation is so numbered because it is the thirteenth generation alive since American Independence (counting back until Benjamin Franklin's).\n\nNote (3): Although there is as yet no universally accepted name for this generation, \"Millennials\" (a name Strauss and Howe coined) has become the most widely accepted. Other names used in reference to it include Generation Y (as it is the generation following Generation X) and \"The Net Generation\".\n\nNote (4): New Silent Generation was a proposed holding name used by Howe and Strauss in their demographic history of America, \"Generations\", to describe the generation whose birth years began somewhere in the mid-2000s and the ending point will be around the mid-2020s. Howe now refers to this generation (most likely currently being born) as the Homeland Generation.\n\nNote (5): There is no consistent agreement among participants on the Fourth Turning message board that 9/11 and the War on Terror lie fully within a Crisis era. The absence of any attempt to constrict consumer spending through taxes or rationing and the tax cuts of the time suggest that any Crisis Era may have begun, if at all, later, as after Hurricane Katrina or the Financial Meltdown of 2008.\n\nThe basic length of both generations and turnings—about twenty years—derives from longstanding socially and biologically determined phases of life. This is the reason it has remained relatively constant over centuries. Some have argued that rapid increases in technology in recent decades are shortening the length of a generation. According to Strauss and Howe, however, this is not the case. As long as the transition to adulthood occurs around age 20, the transition to midlife around age 40, and the transition to old age around age 60, they say the basic length of both generations and turnings will remain the same.\n\nIn their book, The Fourth Turning, however, Strauss and Howe say that the precise boundaries of generations and turnings are erratic. The generational rhythm is not like certain simple, inorganic cycles in physics or astronomy, where time and periodicity can be predicted to the second. Instead, it resembles the complex, organic cycles of biology, where basic intervals endure but precise timing is difficult to predict. Strauss and Howe compare the saecular rhythm to the four seasons, which they say similarly occur in the same order, but with slightly varying timing. Just as winter may come sooner or later, and be more or less severe in any given year, the same is true of a Fourth Turning in any given saeculum.\n\nAccording to Strauss and Howe, there are many potential threats that could feed a growing sense of public urgency as the Fourth Turning progresses, including a terrorist attack, a financial collapse, a major war, a crisis of nuclear proliferation, an environmental crisis, an energy shortage, or new civil wars. The generational cycle cannot explain the role or timing of these individual threats. Nor can it account for the great events of history, like the bombing of Pearl Harbor, President Kennedy’s assassination, or 9/11. What the generational cycle can do, according to Strauss and Howe, is explain how society is likely to respond to these events in different eras. It is the response, not the initial event, which defines an era according to the theory. According to Strauss and Howe, the crisis period lasts for approximately 20 years.\n\nThe Strauss and Howe retelling of history through a generational lens has received mixed reviews. Many reviewers have praised the authors' books and theory for their ambition, erudition and accessibility. Former U.S Vice President Al Gore (who graduated from Harvard University with Mr. Strauss) called \"Generations: The History of America's Future, 1584 to 2069\" the most stimulating book on American history he'd ever read. He even sent a copy to each member of Congress. The theory has been influential in the fields of generational studies, marketing, and business management literature. However, it has also been criticized by several historians and some political scientists and journalists, as being overly-deterministic, non-falsifiable, and unsupported by rigorous evidence.\n\nAfter the publication of their first book \"Generations\", Martin Keller, professor of history at Brandeis University, said that the authors \"had done their homework\". He said that their theory could be seen as pop-sociology and that it would \"come in for a lot more criticism as history. But it's almost always true that the broader you cast your net, the more holes it's going to have. And I admire [the authors'] boldness.\" Harvard sociologist David Riesman said the book showed an \"impressive grasp of a great many theoretical and historical bits and pieces\". \"The Times Literary Supplement\" called it \"fascinating,\" but also, \"about as vague and plausible as astrological predictions.\" \"Publishers Weekly\", though, called \"Generations\" \"as woolly as a newspaper horoscope\".\n\nIn his review for the \"Boston Globe\", historian David Kaiser called \"The Fourth Turning\" \"a provocative and immensely entertaining outline of American history\". \"Strauss and Howe have taken a gamble\", argued Kaiser. \"If the United States calmly makes it to 2015, their work will end up in the ashcan of history, but if they are right, they will take their place among the great American prophets.\" Kaiser has since argued that Strauss and Howe's predictions of coming crisis seems to have occurred, citing events such as 9/11, the 2008 financial crisis, and the recent political gridlock.\n\nKaiser has incorporated Strauss and Howe's theory in two historical works of his own, \"American Tragedy: Kennedy, Johnson, and the Origins of the Vietnam War\" (2000), and \"No End Save Victory: How FDR Led the Nation into War\" (2014). \"New York Times\" book reviewer Michael Lind wrote that \"The Fourth Turning\" (1997) was vague and verged into the realm of pseudoscience. Lind said that the theory is essentially \"non-falsifiable\" and \"mystifying,\" although he believed the authors did have some insights into modern American history.\n\nIn 1993, Andrew Leonard reviewed the book \"13th Gen: Abort, Retry, Ignore, Fail?\". He wrote “as the authors (Strauss and Howe) relentlessly attack the iniquitous 'child-abusive culture' of the 1960s and '70s and exult in heaping insult after insult on their own generation -- they caricature Baby Boomers as countercultural, long-haired, sex-obsessed hedonists -- their real agenda begins to surface. That agenda becomes clear in part of their wish list for how the 13th generation may influence the future: \"13ers will reverse the frenzied and centrifugal cultural directions of their younger years. They will clean up entertainment, de-diversify the culture, reinvent core symbols of national unity, reaffirm rituals of family and neighborhood bonding, and re-erect barriers to cushion communities from unwanted upheaval.\"\n\nAgain in 1993, writing for \"The Globe and Mail\", Jim Cormier reviewed the same book: \"self-described boomers Howe and Strauss add no profound layer of analysis to previous pop press observations. But in cobbling together a more extensive overview of the problems and concerns of the group they call the 13ers, they've created a valuable primer for other fogeys who are feeling seriously out of touch.\" Cormier believed that the authors \"raised as many new questions as answers about the generation that doesn't want to be a generation. But at least they've made an honest, empathetic and good-humoured effort to bridge the bitter gap between the twentysomethings and fortysomethings.\"\n\nIn 1993, Charles Laurence at the \"London Daily Telegraph\" wrote that, in \"13th Gen,\" Strauss and Howe offered this youth generation \"a relatively neutral definition as the 13th American generation from the Founding Fathers,\". According to Alexander Ferron's review in \"Eye Magazine,\" \"\"13th Gen\" is best read as the work of two top-level historians. While its agenda is the 13th generation, it can also be seen as an incredibly well-written and exhaustive history of America from 1960 to 1981--examining the era through everything except the traditional historical subjects (war, politics, famine, etc).\"\n\nIn 2011, Jon D. Miller, at the Longitudinal Study of American Youth (funded by the National Science Foundation) wrote that Strauss and Howe's 1961 to 1981 birth year definition of \"Generation X\" (13th Gen) has been widely used in popular and academic literature.\n\nDavid Brooks reviewed the follow-up book about the next generation titled \"Millennials Rising\" (2000). \"Millennials\" is a term coined by Strauss and Howe. Brooks wrote: “This is not a good book, if by good you mean the kind of book in which the authors have rigorously sifted the evidence and carefully supported their assertions with data. But it is a very good bad book. It's stuffed with interesting nuggets. It's brightly written. And if you get away from the generational mumbo jumbo, it illuminates changes that really do seem to be taking place.” Further, Brooks wrote that the generations aren't treated equally: \"Basically, it sounds as if America has two greatest generations at either end of the age scale and two crummiest in the middle\".\n\nIn 2001, reviewer Dina Gomez wrote in \"NEA Today\" that Strauss and Howe make their case “convincingly,” with “intriguing analysis of popular culture.” While conceding that the book \"over-generalizes\", Gomez also argues that it is “hard to resist the book’s hopeful vision for our children and future.\"\n\n\"Millennials Rising\" ascribes seven \"core traits\" to the Millennial cohort, which are: special, sheltered, confident, team-oriented, conventional, pressured, and achieving. A 2009, \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" report commented Howe and Strauss based these core traits on a \"hodgepodge of anecdotes, statistics, and pop-culture references\" and on surveys of approximately 600 high-school seniors from Fairfax County, Virginia, an affluent county with median household income approximately twice the national average. The report described \"Millennials Rising\" as a \"good-news revolution\" making \"sweeping predictions\" and as describing Millennials as \"rule followers who were engaged, optimistic, and downright pleasant\", commenting the book gave educators and \"tens of millions of parents, a warm feeling. Who wouldn't want to hear that their kids are special?\"\n\nIn 1991, Jonathan Alter wrote in \"Newsweek\" that the book \"Generations\" was a \"provocative, erudite and engaging analysis of the rhythms of American life\". However, he believed it was also \"an elaborate historical horoscope that will never withstand scholarly scrutiny.\" He continued, \"these sequential 'peer personalities' are often silly, but the book provides reams of fresh evidence that American history is indeed cyclical, as Arthur Schlesinger Jr. and others have long argued.\" But he complained, \"The generational boundaries are plainly arbitrary. The authors lump together everyone born from 1943 through the end of 1960 (Baby Boomers), a group whose two extremes have little in common. And the predictions are facile and reckless.\" He concluded: \"However fun and informative, the truth about generational generalizations is that they're generally unsatisfactory.\" Arthur E. Levine, a former president of the Teachers College of Columbia University said \"Generational images are stereotypes. There are some differences that stand out, but there are more similarities between students of the past and the present. But if you wrote a book saying that, how interesting would it be?\"\n\nIn response to criticism that they stereotype or generalize all members of a generation the authors have said, \"We've never tried to say that any individual generation is going to be monochromatic. It'll obviously include all kinds of people. But as you look at generations as social units, we consider it to be at least as powerful and, in our view, far more powerful than other social groupings such as economic class, race, sex, religion and political parties.\"\n\nGerald Pershall wrote in 1991: \"\"Generations\" is guaranteed to attract pop history and pop social science buffs. Among professional historians, it faces a tougher sell. Period specialists will resist the idea that their period is akin to several others. Sweeping theories of history are long out of fashion in the halls of ivy, and the authors' lack of academic standing won't help their cause. Their generational quartet is \"just too wooden\" and \"just too neat,\" says one Yale historian. \"Prediction is for prophets,\" scoffed William McLoughlin (a former history professor at Brown), who said it is wrong to think that \"if you put enough data together and have enough charts and graphs, you've made history into a science.\" He also said the book might get a friendlier reception in sociology and political science departments than the science department.\n\nSociologist David Riesman and political scientist Richard Neustadt offered strong, if qualified, praise. Riesman found in the work an \"impressive grasp of a great many theoretical and historical bits and pieces\" and Neustadt said Strauss and Howe \"are asking damned important questions, and I honor them.\"\n\nIn 1991, professor and \"New York Times\" writer Jay Dolan critiqued \"Generations\" for not talking more about class, race and sex, to which Neil Howe replied that they \"are probably generalizations not even as effective as a generation to say something about how people think and behave. One of the things to understand is that most historians never look at history in terms of generations. They prefer to tell history as a seamless row of 55-year-old leaders who always tend to think and behave the same way -- but they don't and they never have. If you look at the way America's 55-year-old leaders were acting in the 1960s -- you know, the ebullient and confidence of the JFKs and LBJs and Hubert Humphreys -- and compare them with today's leaders in Congress -- the indecision, the lack of sure-footedness -- I think you would have to agree that 55-year-olds do not always act the same way and you're dealing with powerful generational forces at work that explain why one generation of war veterans, war heroes, and another generation which came of age in very different circumstances tend to have very different instincts about acting in the world.”\n\nResponding to criticisms in 1991, Bill Strauss accepted that some historians might not like their theory, which they presented as a new paradigm for looking at American history, that filled a need for a unifying vision of American history:\n\nIn 2006, Frank Giancola wrote an article in \"Human Resource Planning\" that stated \"the emphasis on generational differences is not generally borne out by empirical research, despite its popularity\".\n\nIn 2016 an article was published that explains the differences in generations, observed with the employer's position, through the development of working conditions, initiated by the employer. This development is due to the competition of firms on the job market for receiving more highly skilled workers. New working conditions as a product on the market have a classic product life-cycle and when they become widespread standard expectations of employees change accordingly.\n\nOne criticism of Strauss and Howe's theory, and the field of \"generational studies\" in general, is that conclusions are overly broad and do not reflect the reality of every person in each generation regardless of their race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability, or genetic information For example, Hoover cited the case of Millennials by writing that \"commentators have tended to slap the Millennial label on white, affluent teenagers who accomplish great things as they grow up in the suburbs, who confront anxiety when applying to super-selective colleges, and who multitask with ease as their helicopter parents hover reassuringly above them. The label tends not to appear in renderings of teenagers who happen to be minorities, or poor, or who have never won a spelling bee. Nor does the term often refer to students from big cities and small towns that are nothing like Fairfax County, Va. Or who lack technological know-how. Or who struggle to complete high school. Or who never even consider college. Or who commit crimes. Or who suffer from too little parental support. Or who drop out of college. Aren't they Millennials, too?\"\n\nIn their 2000 book \"Millennials Rising\" Strauss and Howe brought attention to the Millennial children of immigrants in the United States, \"who face daunting challenges.\" They wrote \"one-third have no health insurance, live below the poverty line and live in overcrowded housing\".\n\nIn a 2017 article from \"Quartz\" two journalists commented on Strauss–Howe generational theory saying: \"the theory is too vague to be proven wrong, and has not been taken seriously by most professional historians. But it is superficially compelling, and plots out to some degree how America’s history has unfolded since its founding\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25305799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25305799", "title": "Sui Wenjing", "text": "Sui Wenjing\n\nSui Wenjing (born 18 July 1995 or 7 May 1997) is a Chinese pair skater. With partner Han Cong, she is the 2018 Olympic silver medalist, 2017 world champion, the 2015 and 2016 world silver medalist, a two-time Grand Prix Final bronze medalist (2010, 2014), a four-time Four Continents champion (2012, 2014, 2016–2017), a three-time World Junior champion (2010–2012), the 2009 Junior Grand Prix Final champion and a two-time Chinese national champion (2010, 2011). Sui and Han have landed throw quadruple salchows and quadruple twists in competition.\n\nSui and Han teamed up in 2007 without having previous pair skating experience. They both were inspired by 2010 Olympic Champions Shen Xue & Hongbo Zhao and started skating after watching them competing in the 2002 Winter Olympics.\n\nThey made their international debut in the 2009–10 ISU Junior Grand Prix, where they placed 1st at their events. In the ISU Junior Grand Prix Final they placed 1st. They won the 2010 Chinese Figure Skating Championships and earned a trip to the 2010 World Junior Figure Skating Championships, where they placed 1st. They became the second Chinese pair winning the World Junior Figure Skating Championships after Zhang Dan & Zhang Hao who won the title in 2001 and 2003.\n\nIn the 2010–11 season, Sui and Han started their season by winning silver at the Junior Grand Prix Cup of Austria and gold at the Junior Grand Prix Blauen Schwerter.\n\nThe pair also made their debut on the Senior Grand Prix series by winning a silver medal at the 2010 Cup of China. At their second Grand Prix event, 2010 Skate America, they won the bronze medal. At the 2010–11 Grand Prix Final in December 2010, Sui and Han scored 61.49 in the short program, setting a new personal best and a personal best of 117.55 points in the free skate to win a bronze medal with 179.04 overall.\n\nThe pair then went on to win their second national title at the 2011 Chinese Figure Skating Championships.\n\nSui and Han ended their season by winning their second junior world title at the 2011 World Junior Figure Skating Championships.\n\nIn the 2011–12 season, Sui and Han started their season off by winning the Junior Grand Prix Volvo Cup and the Junior Grand Prix Cup of Austria. They went on to win their second Junior Grand Prix title at the 2011–12 ISU Junior Grand Prix.\n\nOn the senior level, they were assigned to compete at the 2011 Skate Canada where they took the silver medal, and the 2011 Cup of China where they finished 5th. Sui and Han competed at the 2012 Four Continents Championships and won the gold medal placing 1st in both the short and free skate. They won their consecutive 3rd junior world title at the 2012 World Junior Championships held in Minsk, Belarus.\n\nIn the 2012–13 season, Sui and Han withdrew from the Grand Prix series due to an injury to Sui. They competed at the 2013 World Championships despite Sui still being injured and placed 12th.\n\nAfter that season they switched from longtime coach Luan Bo to Olympic pairs champion Zhao Hongbo, Han Bing, and Yao Bin.\n\nIn the 2013–14 season, Sui and Han were assigned to two Grand Prixs and started their event at the 2013 Skate Canada where they won the silver medal. At the 2013 NHK Trophy, they won the bronze medal behind teammates Peng Cheng / Zhang Hao. They won bronze at the Nationals qualifying for the 2014 Winter Olympics but did not make the Olympic team. They then competed at the 2014 Four Continents Championships and won the gold medal setting a new personal best overall score of 212.40 points.\n\nSui and Han then competed at the 2014 World Championships after the withdrawal of Pang Qing/Tong Jian, where they finished 6th after placing 4th in the short program with a score of 72.24 and 9th in the free skate with a score of 119.86, with a total score of 192.10.\n\nFor the 2014–15 Grand Prix season, Sui and Han were assigned to compete at 2014 Skate Canada International and 2014 Trophee Eric Bompard.\n\nAt 2014 Skate Canada, Sui and Han won the silver medal after placing 2nd in both segments after scoring 65.22 in the short program, 119.42 in the free skate, and a total score of 184.64. At 2014 Trophee Eric Bompard, Sui and Han won another silver medal after placing 2nd in the short program with a score of 67.27 and 2nd in the free skate with a score of 133.41, with a total score of 200.68.\n\nThese results qualified them for the 2014–15 Grand Prix Final where they won their second bronze medal after finishing 3rd in the short program with a score of 66.66 and 5th in the free skate with a score of 127.65, with a total score of 194.31.\n\nAt the 2015 Four Continents Figure Skating Championships, Sui and Han finished 4th with a total score of 198.88, after placing 3rd in the short program with a score of 69.19 and 4th in the free skate with a score of 129.69.\n\nAt the 2015 World Figure Skating Championships, Sui and Han placed 3rd in the short program with a score of 71.63, 2nd in the free skate with a personal best score of 142.49, and a personal best combined total score of 214.12, which earned them the silver medal overall.\n\nSui and Han stated they would begin training the throw quad Salchow again for the 2015–16 season.\n\nFor the 2015–16 Grand Prix season, Sui and Han were assigned to compete at 2015 Skate America and 2015 Cup of China. They began their season by winning Skate America, their first senior Grand Prix gold medal. Sui was injured in early November, shortly before the Cup of China, where they placed second. These results qualified them to the 2015–16 Grand Prix of Figure Skating Final, from which they withdrew due to Sui's injury.\n\nSui and Han won the 2016 Four Continents Championships with 221.91 points. At the 2016 World Championships, they placed first in the short program, second in the free skating, and second overall, behind Canada's Meagan Duhamel and Eric Radford.\n\nSui underwent surgery on both feet following the 15–16 season. Sui and Han then withdrew from the Grand Prix series because the recovery from the surgery took several months. They made their season debut at the 2017 Four Continents Championships, where they won the gold medal with a new personal best score of 225.03 points. Their free skate included a quadruple twist. \n\nSui and Han won the 2017 World Figure Skating Championships in Helsinki, Finland, placing first in both the short program and free skating.\n\nSui and Han competed on the Grand Prix series at the Cup of China and NHK Trophy. They won both events and qualified to the Grand Prix Final. At the final, they placed third in the short program, second in the free skating, and second overall.\n\nSui cut her lower leg near the shinbone in training before the 2018 Four Continents Championships and consequently withdrew.\n\nSui and Han did not compete in the team event at the 2018 Winter Olympics. In the individual event, they placed first in the short program, second in the free skating, and second overall, losing the gold by only 0.43 overall to Aliona Savchenko and Bruno Massot, who came from 4th after the short to win.\n\nIt was revealed that Sui's right foot injury at the Olympics was a stress fracture. As a result, the team withdrew from Worlds.\n\nIn February 2011, Sui and her partner's ages became the subject of controversy. Although his ISU bio lists Han as born on August 6, 1992, a Chinese website suggested he was born in March 1989. This would mean that during the 2010–11 season he was too old for junior events. His partner's age also came under scrutiny. Her ISU bio states that she was born on July 18, 1995 but the Chinese website suggested she was born on May 7, 1997, making her 12 and thus, too young to compete in junior events during the 2009–10 season, including the 2010 World Junior Championships, as well as senior Grand Prix events during the 2010–11 season.\n\n\"GP: Grand Prix; JGP: Junior Grand Prix\"\n\n\"(Small medals for short and free programs awarded only at ISU Championships – Worlds and Four Continents. At team events, medals awarded for team results only.)\"\n"}
{"id": "903525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903525", "title": "Tausug language", "text": "Tausug language\n\nTausug (Tausug: \"Bahasa Sūg\", ) is a regional language spoken in the province of Sulu in the Philippines, in the eastern area of the state of Sabah, Malaysia, and in North Kalimantan, Indonesia by the Tausūg people.\n\nIt is widely spoken in the Sulu Archipelago (Tawi-Tawi), Zamboanga Peninsula (Zamboanga del Norte, Zamboanga Sibugay, Zamboanga del Sur, and Zamboanga City), Southern Palawan, Malaysia (eastern Sabah) and Indonesia (North Kalimantan). Tausug and Chavacano are the only Philippine languages spoken on the island of Borneo.\n\nThe Tausug language is very closely related to the Surigaonon language of the provinces Surigao del Norte, Surigao del Sur and Agusan del Sur, and to the Butuanon language of northeastern Mindanao.\n\nThe name of the language in Tausug is \"Bahasa Sūg\" (\"language of Sulu\"). \"Tausūg\" is derived from two words: \"Tau\" (\"person\") and \"sūg\" (\"current\"), presumably referring to their economic livelihood that depends on the strong currents of the Sulu Sea, where they used to trans-navigate as fishermen, pearl divers and traders.\n\nEven today, the Sulu Sea is still the strategic trade route of the southern Philippines and the nearby ASEAN nations. As early as the 10th century, the trade route between Sulu and China and North Borneo is believed to have been already flourishing. The people in the area were known as the \"people of the current\", the literal translation of \"Tausūg\".\n\nFeatures: Gemination of all non-glottal consonants\n\n\nFeatures: Vowel lengthening (e.g. bāy 'house'). Stress: Nonphonemic stress on final syllable.\n\nDiphthongs: aw, uy, ay, iw\n\nIt is alleged that the Tausug language was previously written in a Baybayin-related script called \"Luntarsug.\" The former Sultan of Sulu appears to have confirmed this view with physical evidence. The Tausūg language was previously written with the Arabic alphabet. The script used was inspired by the use of Jawi in writing the Malay language.\n\nAn example of the Arabic alphabet in writing the Tausūg language:\n\n\nThe Arabic script used to write the Tausug language differs in some aspects to the script used for the Arabic language and in the Jawi script used for Malay languages. One of the main differences is in the way that word-initial vowels are written.\n\nIn Arabic, /in/ is (إن); in Jawi (Malay), it is (ان). In Tausug, it is (ئِن). The Tausug Arabic script utilises the letter yā' with a hamza to represent a short vowel. If a kasra (ِ) is added, it becomes an 'i' sound. If a fatha (َ) is added, it becomes an 'a' sound. If a damma (ُ) is added, it becomes a 'u' sound.\n\nExamples:\nMany Tausug words derive from the Arabic language.\n\nSome examples of Arabic words in Tausug are\nTausug words derived from Sanskrit\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30180622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30180622", "title": "The Kurdish Digital Library", "text": "The Kurdish Digital Library\n\nThe Kurdish Digital Library \"(called BNK, in French La bibliothèque numérique kurde (BNK))\" \nis a multimedia digital library created by Kurdish Institute of Paris. The Digital Library consists of writings about the Kurds and Kurdistan. Its aim is to make the Kurdish cultural heritage available as digital data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "366312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366312", "title": "Town meeting", "text": "Town meeting\n\nA town meeting is a form of direct democratic rule, used primarily in portions of the United States – principally in New England – since the 17th century, in which most or all the members of a community come together to legislate policy and budgets for local government. This is a town- or city-level meeting where decisions are made, in contrast with town hall meetings held by state and national politicians to answer questions from their constituents, which have no decision-making power.\n\nTown meeting is a form of local government practiced in the U.S. region of New England since colonial times, and in some western states since at least the late 19th century. Typically conducted by New England towns, \"town meeting\" can also refer to meetings of other governmental bodies, such as school districts or water districts. While the uses and laws vary from state to state, the general form is for residents of the town or school district to gather once a year and act as a legislative body, voting on operating budgets, laws, and other matters for the community's operation over the following 12 months.\n\nIn 1854, Henry David Thoreau said, in a speech entitled \"Slavery in Massachusetts\":\n\nThe painting \"Freedom of Speech\" depicts a scene from a town meeting.\n\nThe Puritans, whose churches used the Congregationalist church governance sysytem, established town meetings when they established the various New England colonies.\n\nIts usage in the English language can also cause confusion, since it is both an event, as in \"Freetown had its town meeting last Tuesday\", and an entity, as in \"Last Tuesday, Town Meeting decided to repave Howland Road.\"\n\nIn recent years, \"town meeting\" has also been used by political groups and political candidates as a label for moderated discussion group in which a large audience is invited. To avoid confusion, this sort of event is often called a \"town hall meeting.\"\n\nConnecticut town meetings are bound to a published agenda. For example, in Connecticut, a Town Meeting may discuss, but not alter, an article placed before them, nor may they place new items on the agenda. If a Town Meeting rejects a budget, a new Town Meeting must be called to consider the next proposed budget. State Law allows the Board of Selectmen to adopt an estimated tax rate and continue operating based on the previous budget in the event a Town Meeting has not adopted a new budget in time.\n\nThey also do not exercise the scope of legislative powers as is typically seen in Massachusetts; for example, while many Massachusetts towns adopt and modify land-use and building zoning regulations at Town Meeting, in Connecticut the Town Meeting would have \"adopted zoning\" as a concept for the town, however the actual writing and adopting of specific regulations fall to an elected Planning & Zoning Board created by the adoption of zoning.\n\nA moderator is chosen at each meeting. Meetings are typically held in school auditoriums, however they may be moved to larger venues as needed. Town meetings can physically meet in another town if necessary to find a proper space to host the attendance. Votes are taken by voice, and if close by show of hands. Meetings on controversial topics are often adjourned to a referendum conducted by machine vote on a date in the future. Such adjournment may come from the floor of the meeting, or by a petition for a paper or machine ballot filed before the meeting.\n\nIn towns with an Open Town Meeting, all registered voters of a town, and all persons owning at least $1,000 of taxable property, are eligible to participate in and vote at Town Meetings, with the exception of the election of officials. Representative Town Meetings used by some larger towns consist solely of a large number of members elected to office. Some towns utilize a so-called Financial Town Meeting, where an Open Town Meeting exists with limited jurisdiction to only vote on financial affairs and the town's legislative powers have been vested in a Town Council.\n\nIn Maine, the town meeting system originated during the period when Maine was a district of Massachusetts. Most cities and towns operate under the town meeting form of government or a modified version of it. Maine annual town meetings traditionally are held in March. Special town meetings also may be called from time to time.\n\nThe executive agency of town government is an elected, part-time board, known as the Board of Selectmen or Select Board, having three, five, or seven members. Between sessions, the board of selectmen interprets the policy set at Town Meeting and is assigned numerous duties including: approving all town non-school expenditures, authorizing highway construction and repair, serving as town purchasing agent for non-school items, issuing licenses, and overseeing the conduct of all town activities. Often the part-time selectmen also serve as town assessors, overseers of the poor, and as road commissioners. Generally, there are other elected town officers whose duties are specified by law. These may include clerks, assessors, tax collector, treasurer, school committee, constables, and others.\n\nIn 1927 the town of Camden adopted a special charter, and became the first Maine town to apply the manager concept to the town meeting-selectmen framework. Under this system, the manager is administrative head of town government, responsible to the select board for the administration of all departments under its control. The manager's duties include acting as purchasing agent, seeing that laws and ordinances are enforced, making appointments and removals, and fixing the compensation of appointees. (See also: Council-manager government)\n\nFrom 1927 to 1939, eleven other Maine towns adopted special act town meeting-selectmen-manager charters similar to the Camden charter. Today, 135 Maine towns have the town meeting-selectmen-manager system, while 209 use the town meeting-selectman system.\n\nAn open town meeting is a form of town meeting in which all registered voters of a town may vote (as opposed to having elected town councilmen vote on behalf of the town's population). This form of government is typical of smaller municipalities in the New England region of the United States. As a form of government it basically eliminates town councilmen as middlemen. \n\nIn Massachusetts, all towns with fewer than 6,000 residents must adopt an \"open town meeting\" form of government. Massachusetts towns with 6,000 or more residents may optionally adopt a representative town meeting form of government. The Board of Selectmen summons the town meeting into existence by issuing the warrant, which is the list of items—known as articles—to be voted on, with descriptions of each article. The Moderator officiates the meeting by reading each article, explaining it, and making sure the rules of parliamentary procedure are followed, interprets voice votes and counts other votes. The Finance Committee or Ways and Means Committee makes recommendations on articles dealing with money, and often drafts the proposed budget. The Town Clerk serves as the clerk of the meeting by recording its results. Town Counsel makes legal recommendations on all articles of the warrant, to ensure town meeting is acting lawfully. All registered voters are free to attend and vote on any and all articles.\n\nMassachusetts Towns having at least 6,000 residents may adopt a Representative Town Meeting system through the normal charter-change process. Representative Town Meetings function largely the same as an Open Town Meeting, except that not all registered voters can vote. The townspeople instead elect Town Meeting Members by precinct to represent them and to vote on the issues for them. Depending on population, a town may have anywhere from 50 to 240 Town Meeting Members. Before it became a city in 2018, Framingham, which was the largest town in the Commonwealth by population, had 216 representatives in Town Meeting, twelve from each precinct.\n\nAnnual town meetings are held in the spring, and may also be known as the annual budget meeting. They were required to be held between February 1 and May 31, but Chapter 85 of the Acts of 2008 extended this window of time to June 30. (Town fiscal years start on July 1.) At this meeting, the town takes care of any outstanding housekeeping items it has remaining before the end of the current fiscal year, and prepares to enter the new fiscal year by approving the new fiscal year's budget. It may also vote on non-budgetary issues on the warrant, including the town's general and zoning bylaws.\n\nAn article may be placed on the warrant by the Selectmen, sometimes at the request of town departments, or by a petition signed by at least ten registered voters of the town.\n\nSpecial town meetings are held whenever necessary, usually to deal with financial or other pertinent issues that develop between Annual Town Meetings. They function the same as an annual town meeting, only the number of signatures required on a petition rises to 100. While the Selectmen generally call such a meeting, voters may call one through petition, and the number of signatures required on a petition to call a Special Town Meeting is 200 or 20% of the registered voters, whichever number is lower. The selectmen have 45 days from the date of receiving such a petition to hold a Special Town Meeting.\n\nJoint Town Meetings are an extremely rare form of town meeting. When two or more towns share an operating budget for district activity that includes those towns, for example, a multi-town regional school district, the governing body of that regional district will typically issue each town an assessment for its operation. The town then includes its assessment as part of its budget.\n\nIf Town Meeting in one town votes to approve its assessment based on the figures provided, and Town Meeting in another town votes a lesser figure than it was assessed, the disagreement becomes problematic. If the issue cannot be resolved by a revised budget submitted to subsequent additional individual town meetings, the regional entity's governing body has the authority to call a meeting of all registered voters from all towns in the district: a Joint Town Meeting. The action of the Joint Town Meeting is binding upon all communities of the regional district. When three or more towns are involved, the name often changes from Joint Town Meeting to Regional Town Meeting.\n\nIn 2003, the Massachusetts communities of Freetown and Lakeville held their annual town meetings and voted on the budget for the Freetown-Lakeville Regional School District as part of those meetings. Freetown voters approved a budget that reduced their contribution by $100,000 from what the Regional School Committee asked for, thus requiring Lakeville to lower their contribution proportionally. Lakeville voters instead approved the amount the Regional School Committee asked for, which would require Freetown to go back and approve the extra $100,000.\n\nWhen the towns could not agree, the Regional School Committee, as governing body of the Freetown-Lakeville Regional School District, called a joint town meeting of voters from Freetown and Lakeville to agree on a single regional school budget. The joint meeting voted in favor of the amount originally requested, which committed Freetown to appropriate additional funds in the amount of $100,000 for the regional school district's operations.\n\nThe Massachusetts Constitution (in Amendment LXXXIX, which governs the respective powers of municipalities and the state legislature) makes a distinction between a \"city form of government\" and a \"town form of government\". In recent years, a number of communities have chosen to adopt a home-rule charter under this Amendment which specifies a city form of government while retaining the style \"Town of X\", calling their legislative bodies \"Town Council\", and so on. (The Constitution does not require any specific nomenclature.) In special legislation, these places are sometimes described as \"the city known as the town of X\".\n\nThe Town Meeting legislative body and form of government is a mandatory part of being a town under state municipal law. Massachusetts cities do not have town meetings, because the legislative body is the elected city council, also sometimes called the board of aldermen or, in the case of cities styled as \"Town of _____\", the town council. However, as noted, the official style of a city or town is defined in its charter, and there is no legal barrier to cities calling themselves \"town\" or vice versa. As a result, not all of the municipalities that entitled \"Town of _____\" have a Town Meeting legislative body. (Only communities with a population of at least 12,000 are allowed to adopt a city form of government.)\n\nCommon practice distinguishes between a \"town meeting\" (with an article), which may refer to any such gathering, even if municipal business is not the subject, and \"Town Meeting\" (never an article), which always refers to the legislative governing body of a town.\n\nIn New Hampshire, towns, village districts (which can deal with various government activities but usually concern public water supplies) and school districts have the option of choosing one of two types of annual meeting: Traditional meetings, and ballot-vote meetings that are known informally as \"SB 2\" or \"Senate Bill 2\". A variation of SB 2 and representative town meeting are also allowed under state law but as of 2015 are not in use by any community.\n\nTraditional Town Meetings, or Open Meetings, are held annually on the second Tuesday of March to choose town officers and the transaction of all other town business. Town selectmen are also permitted to call special town meetings as warranted, although these must be approved by a judge if they involve budgetary expenditures or changes. Town meetings are prohibited, by state law, from being held on the biennial election day, which is typically held in November to elect county, state and national officials.\n\nA town moderator is allowed under state law to adjourn a meeting that has run for a very long period and reconvene it at a later date, usually one week from the date of the meeting, and usually in the same location, in order to finish the town's business.\n\nThe SB 2 form of government was instituted by the state legislature in 1995 because of concerns that modern lifestyles had made it difficult for people to attend traditional town meetings. Residents vote in an SB 2 election at a polling place throughout the day. They may also vote by absentee ballot. Municipalities that have adopted the SB 2 form of government may switch back to the traditional town meeting form by a 3/5 majority vote.\n\nUnder SB 2, a first session, called a \"Deliberative Session\", is held about a month prior to the town election. This session is similar in many ways to the traditional town meeting. However, unlike the town meeting, while the wording and dollar amounts of proposed ballot measures may be amended, no actual voting on the merits of the proposals takes place. The second session, held on a set election day, is when issues such as the town's budget and other measures, known as warrant articles, are voted upon. When adopting SB 2, towns or school districts may hold elections on the second Tuesday in March, the second Tuesday in April, or the second Tuesday in May. The election dates may be changed by majority vote. If a vote is taken to approve the change of the local elections, the date becomes effective the following year.\n\nIn 2002, according to the University of New Hampshire Center for Public Policy studies, 171 towns in New Hampshire had traditional town meeting, while 48 had SB 2. Another 15 municipalities, most of them incorporated cities, had no annual meeting. The study found that 102 school districts had traditional town meeting, 64 had SB 2 meeting and 10 had no annual meeting.\n\nBecause traditional-meeting communities tend to be smaller, only one-third of the state's population was governed by traditional town meetings in 2002, and only 22 percent by traditional school-district meetings.\n\nThe Official Ballot Town Council is a variant form of the Town Council, in which certain items are to be placed on the ballot to be voted on by the registered voters. This process mimics the SB 2 process, except that the Town Council makes the determination of what items will go on the ballot.\n\nThe Budgetary Town Meeting is a variation of the Open Meeting, but only the annual town operating budget as presented by the governing body can be voted on by the registered voters. When a town charter provides for a Budgetary Town Meeting it also must establish the procedures for the transfer of funds among various departments, funds, accounts and agencies as may be necessary during the year.\n\nState law also allows for a Representative Town Meeting, similar to that of a Town Council, although as of 2006 the practice is not used by a town or school district in New Hampshire. Voters elect a small number of residents to act as the legislative body instead of them, however no town in the state has done so. Representative Town Meetings follow the same procedure and address the same issues as traditional town meetings, except they cannot consider matters which state law or the charter states must be placed on the official ballot of the town.\n\nModerators are elected to two-year terms on even years in towns and are elected in city wards at every other city election. The moderator's duties include presiding over town meetings, regulating the business thereof, deciding questions of order, making public declarations of each vote passed, and prescribing rules of proceeding which may be altered by the town as need.\n\nThe moderator also has the authority to postpone and reschedule the deliberative session or voting day of the meeting to another reasonable date, place, and time certain in the case of a weather emergency in which the moderator reasonably believes the roads to be hazardous or unsafe.\n\nTown meetings were the rule in New York from the colonial period into the 20th century. They were typically held between February 1 and May 1 of each year primarily for the election of town officials but were also empowered to set \"rules for fences and for impounding animals,\" supporting the poor, raising taxes, and to \"determine any other question lawfully submitted to them\". In the late 1890s the state legislature shifted the meetings – by this time no more than town elections – to biennial to conform to the pattern of federal, state, and municipal elections in the state's cities. It also permitted, and later directed, town meetings to be held in November. That process was not complete until the 1920s. Laws adopted in 1932 for the first time refer to \"Biennial town elections\", stating that these were \"a substitute for a town meeting...and a reference in any law to a town meeting or special town meeting shall be construed as reference to a town election\". The state's school districts (independent units with taxing powers) voted on budgets and capital levies and elected school board members in town-meeting style until the late 1950s.\n\nDue to a change in the state's constitution, Rhode Island municipalities have a greater degree of home rule compared to the other New England states. Like Connecticut, a few towns utilize a so-called Financial Town Meeting, where an Open Town Meeting exists with limited jurisdiction to only vote on financial affairs and the town's legislative powers have been vested in a Town Council. The direct democracy tradition is now uncommon in Rhode Island.\n\nTown Meeting Day (the first Tuesday in March) is a state holiday. Most organized towns operate under the general statutes requiring an annual town meeting on that day or, optionally, on preceding days if the voters so choose. The purpose of town meeting is to elect municipal officers, approve annual budgets and conduct any other business. All cities and some towns in Vermont operate under charters instead of general legislation (see special legislation). The cities and chartered towns, except for South Burlington, are required by the terms of their charters to hold an annual town meeting, on Town Meeting Day. Many towns vote on matters of substance (e.g., budgets, elected officials, etc.) by secret ballot (also known as Australian ballot). However, there is no state law that requires towns to vote by Australian ballot; several towns still conduct all business \"from the floor\".\n\nCities and towns are governed by either a city council or a selectboard. They are fully empowered to act on most issues and are generally referred to as the municipality's legislative body. But all town budgets (and those of other independent taxing authorities) must be approved by plebiscite; explaining the local government's budget request to the voters is the principal business of Town Meeting. Voters at Town Meeting may also vote on non-binding resolutions, and may place items on the ballot for the following year's meeting.\n\nThere is no general requirement for chartered municipalities to observe town meeting or to put their budgets to plebiscite. When the Town of South Burlington was re-chartered as the City of South Burlington in 1971, the new charter provided for city elections in April and required only budget increases of 10% or more per annum to be placed before voters. No other municipality has been granted such a charter by the legislature, and there is strong sentiment against making future exceptions.\n\nAccording to the Vermont Secretary of State's Citizen's Guide to Town Meeting, Vermont gives state employees the day off on town meeting day. Vermont \"law also gives a private employee the right to take unpaid leave from work to attend his or her annual town meeting, subject to the essential operation of the business or government. An employee must give the employer at least seven days notice if he or she wants to take advantage of this right to attend town meeting. Students who are over 18 also have the right to attend town meeting\" and not be declared truant.\n\nModerators are elected to one-year terms in towns. The moderator's duties include reviewing the \"warning\" (published agenda) for the town meeting, presiding over town meetings, deciding questions of order, making public declarations of each vote passed, and prescribing rules of proceeding.\n\nTowns in several western states and counties also practice town meeting, though generally with more limited powers. Michigan was the first western state to adopt the town meeting system, but it was initially very restricted in its function.\n\nMinnesota has had town meetings as the policy-setting bodies of townships. They were required once the voting population of a township reached 25 persons. Townships still hold town meetings.\n\nThe best-known example of the town meeting system of government was to be found in the Basque Country of northern Spain in the Middle Ages. Known as the anteiglesia (literally \"in front of the church\" from the Latin \"ante\" - and not \"anti\") all the residents of a town would meet outside the door of the largest church and vote on local matters. They would also elect a \"sindico\" to represent them in the regional assembly. The village or town was divided into \"cofradías\", which dealt with day-to-day administration in each of the town's parishes.\n\nThe system was revived in the municipality of Iurreta, Biscay in 1990.\n\nTown meetings are the usual legislative body of the smaller municipalities of Switzerland, that is of approximately 90% of all Swiss municipalities. The meetings are usually held twice a year. At the cantonal level, some regions also hold Landsgemeinde, annual meetings for deciding on legislative referenda. In the 17th century this was common across the region, but in the 21st century the meetings continue to exist only in two cantons of Switzerland.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith has a Nineteen Day Feast which encourages all members of the geographic community in good standing to attend for prayers, administrative discussion, and socializing. This meeting is one component of the Bahá'í Administrative Order (which is held up as a model for secular society to consider implementing some of its features), and the meeting is considered by Bahá'ís to be an example of grass-roots democracy.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
