{"id": "34395795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34395795", "title": "AVANCE", "text": "AVANCE\n\nAVANCE is an American non-profit organization, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas with locations across the United States. Formed in 1973, it provides free parenting and early childhood education programs to low-income, predominately Hispanic, families with children of up to three years of age.\n\nAVANCE's name derives from the Spanish word for \"advance\" It originally started in 1973 as a 500-unit public housing development serving 35 families in San Antonio, Texas. Currently it encompasses over 100 programs across U.S.A. The number of participants in its early childhood education/parenting and family support services number several thousand. The concept of the organization was based on the educational theories of Urie Bronfenbrenner, of Cornell University, and whose graduate students established the first AVANCE program in Dallas, Texas in 1973. The founders received start-up funding from the Zale Corporation which allowed for an expansion of the program to San Antonio.\n\nThe basis of the pProgram is on Dr. Bronfenrenner's (1979) observations of the impact of environmental factors on human development. This research suggested that factors external to the family were constraints to escaping from poverty cycles, and the research aimed to provide model for intervention. The Parent-Child Education Program, adopted by AVANCE, focuses on the role of both parent and child. It assists parents by providing a stable home environment improving the parents' language and work skills, their parenting knowledge, and awareness of community services.\n\nThe principal program AVANCE promotes is the Parent-Child Education Program. This aims to help parents create a cognitively rich environment. Teachers seek to do this by encouraging parents to stimulate their children's development through talking to them, praising them and interacting with the world around them. The New York Times referred to the goal of AVANCE as, \"Teaching mothers how to teach their children.\" The program is structured in two tiers, with the first addressing the children's basic needs, such as food, clothing, shelter, and medical services. The second stage focusses on the parents' educational needs, where applicable, with the aim of improving the home environment and parents' employment options.\n\nThe Parent-Child Education Program consists of weekly three-hour classes that are designed to mirror the local school calendar and comprises curricula based on Play and Toys, Parenting Education, Home Visits and Community Resource Awareness. The average participant in the program is a low-income Hispanic mother in her mid-twenties, with 2 – 3 children. However, it also includes fathers, grandparents and primary guardians or caregivers of children up to three years of age. The majority of participants possess no higher than a ninth-grade education and limited or no work experience. A core tenet of the program is to provide practical support in order to encourage parental participation by arranging transport to and from program services, providing free meals and employing bilingual staff from the same communities as participants. Individuals are not charged for participating in the program.\n\nThe effectiveness of the Parent-Child Education Program was evaluated over a four-year period, from 1987 – 1991 with support from the Carnegie Corporation of New York. The evaluation studied a group of 486 individuals, comprising 207 participants in the AVANCE program and 279 in a control group. The data collected related to maternal knowledge, behavior, attitudes and continuing education. The study continued over a two-year period and concluded that \"most of the program goals were attained to an impressive degree.\" It found the two-generation Parent-Child Education Program for low-income families to be beneficial in such aspects as the home learning environment, maternal behaviors and attitudes towards children. A review of the program in Early Childhood Education Journal, found that children in the AVANCE-Dallas chapter academically outperformed their peers. In the 2005 TAKS (Texas Assessment of Knowledge and Skills), 88% of child graduates met the passing standard for reading, compared to 73% in the Dallas Independent School District and 83% in the state.\n\nA 1991 survey of 23 women and 32 children who had participated in AVANCE's first program group showed that 94% of the children had completed high school, received a General Equivalency Diploma (GED) or were still in education. In addition, 57% of the mothers who had previously dropped out of school, went back and resumed studies, subsequently attaining a GED.\n\nAs part of a 1994 report into the state of care for children in U.S.A., the Carnegie Corporation commented on the AVANCE programs: \"Evaluations show that Avance (sic.) programs improve families' ability to provide an emotionally stimulating and nurturing environment for their young children, positively influence mothers' childrearing attitudes and knowledge, and expand mother's use of community resources.\" This was at a time, the report continued, when three million children, comprising almost 25% of all American infants and toddlers, lived in poverty.\n\nDr. Susan B. Neuman investigated AVANCE's Parent-Child Education program as part of research into early intervention initiatives. She is Professor in Educational Studies at the University of Michigan, a former U.S. Assistant Secretary of Elementary and Secondary Education, and was primarily responsible for implementing the No Child Left Behind Act. The AVANCE program was one of nine non-school intervention initiatives that Dr. Neuman examined. She found high performance levels for children who had participated in the program. 100% of children scored excellent or satisfactory on the Dallas school district's kindergarten test of pre-reading skills. Dr. Neuman concluded that AVANCE and the other programs demonstrated \"impressive results\".\n\nIn 2009 AVANCE was awarded the E Pluribus Unum Prize, presented by the Migration Policy Institute's National Center on Immigration Integration Policy. This award is given in recognition of initiatives that help immigrants and their children to adapt and contribute to the United States. In January 2012, AVANCE was awarded the Simmons Luminary Award for education excellence by Southern Methodist University.\n\nThe work of the organization has been commented upon by former First Ladies, Hillary Clinton, Rosalynn Carter and Barbara Bush, in relation to education. In a 1999 forum on educational initiatives and issues held in Washington D.C., Clinton described AVANCE as \"...one of the most effective home-building programs of support. If you're not familiar with it, you should see it and read about it.\" She had also written about the organization in her book, \"It Takes a Village\". Rosalynn Carter, in discussing the effectiveness of several organizations in the promotion of mental well-being, described AVANCE as one of those programs which '...have in common efforts to reduce the risk factors that can contribute to mental illness while they enhance protective factors that can help keep our children well.' Separately, The Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy recognized AVANCE among ten innovative family literacy programs that focused on early intervention.\n\nThe organization was also included in a 1997 book and photographic exhibition called 'Pursuing the Dream', a joint venture between award-winning photographer, Stephen Shames and the Family Resource Coalition (FRC). This was the culmination of a two-year photographic record undertaken by Shames, of community programs serving disadvantaged youth and families and helping families achieve financial and emotional stability.\n\nThe organization's work has been commented upon by Hillary Clinton, Rosalynn Carter and Barbara Bush, and it has also been reported upon by \"The New York Times\".\n\nIt has also receivedf avorable notice from \"The New York Times.\" and from Sue Mill Wiltz, in \"Harvard Education Letter\", '\n\nAVANCE was ranked by \"Hispanic Business Magazine\" as one of the top 25 non-profit organizations supporting Hispanic people in the U.S.A. in 2011.\n\nAVANCE operates through donations from business organizations and individuals. In addition, AVANCE receives donations from churches, food banks, schools, government agencies, social and civic groups. Some universities also allow the organization to use their campuses for graduation ceremonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23932533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23932533", "title": "Accreditation Commission of Colleges of Medicine", "text": "Accreditation Commission of Colleges of Medicine\n\nThe Accreditation Commission of Colleges of Medicine (ACCM) is an international medical review and accreditation agency service for medical schools.\n\nThe National Committee on Foreign Medical Education and Accreditation (NCFMEA), part of the United States Department of Education, has listed ACCM as \"found to use standards to accredit their medical schools that are comparable to the standards used to accredit medical schools in the United States.\"\n\nIn 2017 ACCM was granted a 10-year recognition by the World Federation on Medical Education (WFME) \n\nThe ACCM works on behalf of the governments in relation to medical school standards in the following Caribbean countries and one middle Eastern country and according to its site there is only one ACCM accredited medical school in each of the countries:\n\n"}
{"id": "16796463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16796463", "title": "Annual International Conference on Real Options", "text": "Annual International Conference on Real Options\n\nThe Annual International Conference on Real Options: Theory Meets Practice is a yearly conference organized by the Real Options Group in cooperation with various top universities. Its stated aim is to \"bring together academics and practitioners at the forefront of real options and investment under uncertainty to discuss recent developments and applications.\"\n\nThe conference has taken place in a different location every year from its inception in 1997. Notable keynote speakers have included Robert C. Merton of Harvard University, Myron Scholes of Stanford University, Robert Pindyck and Stewart Myers of MIT, and Stephen A. Ross of Yale.\n\nIn 2008 the conference was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 2009 it was held in Portugal and Spain, in 2010 in Rome, Italy, and in 2011 in Turku, Finland.\n\n"}
{"id": "13476581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13476581", "title": "Association for Continuing Legal Education", "text": "Association for Continuing Legal Education\n\nAssociation for Continuing Legal Education (ACLEA) is an international organization established in 1964 devoted to improving the performance of Continuing Legal Education (CLE) professionals. It is based in Saint Paul, Minnesota.\n\n\nCATALOG OF CONTINUING LEGAL EDUCATION...\n"}
{"id": "28040522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28040522", "title": "Atheneum (school)", "text": "Atheneum (school)\n\nAtheneum, named after the ancient school founded by Roman Emperor Hadrian, is the name used for one of the Dutch educational courses aimed at preparation for Scientific education on a university. The vwo (voorbereidend wetenschappelijk onderwijs) which translates to 'preparatory scientific education', consists out of two substreams, the Gymnasium and Atheneum. The latter does not require to do finals in Greek or Latin language and culture, while the former does.\n\nAtheneum is a six-year course[1]. Successful completion allows the candidate to enroll in a Bachelor program at a Dutch university. The first three years of Atheneum are the same for every student. During the six years there are some mandatory subjects:\n\n\nApart from these mandatory subjects, there are some extra subjects that are mandatory in line with the chosen profile, within the last three years of Atheneum. There are four profiles a student can choose: Nature and Technology (NT), Nature and Health (NG), Economy and Society (EM), Culture and Society (CM).\n\nNature and Technology has the extra mandatory subjects:\n\n\nNature and Health has the extra mandatory subjects:\n\n\nEconomy and Society has the extra mandatory subjects:\n\n\nCulture and society has the extra mandatory subjects:\n\n\nIt should be noted that in the third year a student makes the following decisions apart from their choice in profile:\n\n"}
{"id": "30832824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30832824", "title": "Broadcast Journalism Training Council", "text": "Broadcast Journalism Training Council\n\nThe Broadcast Journalism Training Council (BJTC) is an industry-led body offering accreditation to courses for aspiring journalists.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the National Union of Journalists was pushing for a more structured approach to training for broadcast. After a series of meetings with universities, the BBC and the Independent Broadcasting Authority, the Joint Advisory Council for the Training of Radio Journalists was formed, chaired by the retired Managing Director of BBC World Service, Gerard Mansell.\n\nThis organisation was the forerunner of the BJTC. In 1987, Tom Beesley succeeded Mansell as chair. He continued for 23 years, before retiring in 2010. Other past Chairmen have been Marie Kinsey from the University of Sheffield and Martin Campbell, former Ofcom Chief Advisory. Currently the BJTC is chaired by Ralph Bernard, CBE, with Jon Godel as its Chief Executive.\n\nIt was founded on 25 November 1996.\n\nThe BJTC is a partnership of 90 per cent of UK broadcasting employers: the BBC, ITV News Group, ITN, Sky News, Thomson-Reuters, RadioCentre, APTN, plus the NUJ and Creative Skillset, the sector Skills Council for the media industries. Associate members include 37 colleges and universities, running a total of 56 accredited courses. \nThe aim of the BJTC is to make students more employable, so the primary role is as a forum for employers and training providers to agree training standards. \n\nRecently the BJTC has reviewed and updated its Requirements in accordance and consultation with industry and academic personnel. These were published to all accredited courses in December 2015. \n\nThe BJTC hold biannual conferences for Council members, allowing them to get up-to-date news from the BJTC and partake in debates, talks and workshops including voice training, mobile, social media and drone journalism. \n\nThe BJTC also runs a successful annual awards programme. In 2016, the ceremony was held at ITV Southbank studios, hosted by Charlene White with students from City, University of London winning the top Steve Harris Award for Best Original Journalism. Past presenters have included Alastair Stewart, Nina Hossain, Neila Butt (BBC Diversity Editor), Dominic Laurie and Chris Mason (BBC Political Correspondent). \n\nIt is headquartered in Gerrards Cross in Buckinghamshire, near Gerrards Cross railway station, between the B416 and A413.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31943985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31943985", "title": "Broadcom MASTERS", "text": "Broadcom MASTERS\n\nBroadcom MASTERS, a program of Society for Science & the Public, is a national science competition for U.S. middle school students. The Broadcom Foundation launched the competition in 2010 and pledged $6 million over the next 6 years. In 2014, approximately 6,000 middle school students were eligible for entry and 2,054 students completed and submitted the application.\n\nEach year, the top 10% of students from certain SSP-affiliated regional and state science fairs across the nation are eligible for entry in the Broadcom MASTERS competition. The first stage is an online application that consists of project information and other essays. The project described in the application must be the same as the one presented at the qualifying fair. On the basis of the online application, 300 semifinalists are selected and announced. The 30 finalists are selected from the pool of semifinalists; no additional information needs to be sent in between semifinalist and finalist stages. The 30 finalists are then invited for finalist week, to meet and compete with the other finalists in-person. From 2011 through 2014, finalist week has occurred in Washington DC. There is no pre-ranking prior to finalist week. Judging occurs over three days and consists of project judging as well as a variety of STEM challenges. The STEM challenges are done in teams, but judges weigh individual performance much more than combined team performance. There are six teams of five students each.\n\nThe grand prizes are:\n\nThe awards for each of the finalists include:\n\nThe awards for each of the top 300 include:\n\nThe awards to each of the entrants include:\n\nEleanor Wren Sigrest, 13, Woodbridge, VA\nfor Rockets and Nozzles, and Thrusts, Oh My\n\nA brief description of Eleanor's award-winning project by the Broadcom Foundation:\n\n\"Inspired to learn about cold gas rockets after the SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket explosion, Eleanor built equipment to force pressurized gas through different nozzles made with a 3-D printer. After collecting data on force, pressure and temperature, her conclusion of a 20-degree half-angle was the best compromise between a nozzle’s length and its thrust.\"\n\nAria Eppinger, 15, Pittsburgh, PA\nfor Roundup's Effect on Human Gut Bacteria\n\nA brief description of Aria's award-winning project by the Broadcom Foundation:\n\n\"Aria tested the effect of residue from a common weed killer on human gut bacteria that showed it slowed growth of beneficial bacteria, throwing off the good-bad gut bacteria in people and potentially leading to serious diseases.\"\n\nKaien Yang, 14, Chantilly, VA\nfor iDiagnostic: Invention of an Early Detection Tool for Major Depressive Disorder\n\nA brief description of Kaien's award-winning project by the Broadcom Foundation:\n\n\"Kaien developed an app called iDiagnostic that can predict the risk for mental illness with an accuracy of 93 percent. Combining a psychological evaluation with data from magnetic resonance imaging, Kaien’s work found a link between Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and shrinkage of an area called the limbic system.\"\n\nNathan Deng, 14, San Marino, CA\nfor Drop by Drop: Manipulating the Surface Tension of Water to Find the Best Way of Cleaning\n\nA brief description of Nathan's award-winning project by the Broadcom Foundation:\n\n\"Nathan Deng was awarded the Lemelson Award for Innovation for seeking to solve a real-world problem like effective cleaning through an invention. Nathan built a device to measure surface tension of water with a syringe, flexible tubing, a thermometer and a precise scale. By lowering surface tension, water can permeate through the crevices of dirty objects and lead to more effective cleaning.\"\n\nScience Award\n\nFirst place: Ananya Ganesh, Sandy Springs, GA \nfor Bruxism: Using Myoelectric Signals to Treat a Common Health Problem\n\nSecond place: Cynthia Chen, Cupertino, CA for A Novel Method for Reducing Water Consumption in Germinating Seeds\n\nTechnology Award\nFirst place: Adishree Ghatare, San Jose, CA\nfor A Software Application as a Learning Platform for Increasing Memory Retention of Definitions of Words\n\nSecond place: Shreya Ramachandran, Fremont, CA for The Effect of Soap Nut Grey Water on the Environment\n\nEngineering Award\nFirst place: Brendan Crotty, Muskogee, OK for \"Comparative Study of Insulating Materials for a Gas Forge\n\nSecond place: Emhyr Subramanian, Aurora, CO for A Study of Super-Absorbent Polymers and their Effectiveness in Organic Waste Extraction\n\nMathematics Award\nFirst place: Anushka Naiknaware, Portland, OR for Chitosan and Carbon Nanoparticle based Biocompatible Sensor for Wound Management\n\nSecond place: Olivia Lazorik, Fort Pierce, FL for Climate Change Problem: The Effect of Ocean Acidification on the Growth and Coloration of Lysmata wurdemanni\n\nJames Fagan, Riverside, CA\nfor A Wind Tunnel to Test for the Best Aerodynamic Characteristics for Flight on Mars\n\nAshini Modi, Shreveport, LA for Dark Matter: The Hidden Universe\n\nEach member of the team that best demonstrates their ability to work together, and solve problems through shared decision making, communication and scientific and engineering collaboration. The winning team included : Nathan Deng, Aria Eppinger, Anushka Naiknaware, Rachel Pizzolato, and \nLucas Ritzdorf.\n\nFinalists select one student from the group based on their leadership abilities to represent their class as a speaker at the awards ceremony.\nWinner: Nikolai Ortiz\n\nThe Samueli Foundation Prize: $25,000\nWinner: Annie Ostojic, 13, of Munster, Ind.\nProject: A Novel Microwave Cavity Design Using Cylindrical Parabolic Reflectors to Optimize Energy Efficiency\nGrand prize winner Annie Ostojic was awarded the Samueli Foundation Prize for her mastery of STEM principles and team leadership demonstrated throughout the rigorous weeklong competition. Her science fair project expanded upon knowledge she accumulated in prior competitions in order to apply science and engineering to innovating a more energy efficient microwave design. Ostojic performed complex experiments and designed prototypes to achieve the next level of creative solutions for environmentally friendly microwave cooking.\n\nA three time Broadcom MASTERS participant, Ostojic won the Rising Star award as a 2014 Broadcom MASTERS finalist and represented the United States as one of 24 delegates representing 14 countries at Broadcom MASTERS International this year. Ostojic competed against over 2,400 entrants to return as a finalist of the 2015 Broadcom MASTERS.\n\nMarconi/Samueli Award for Innovation: $10,000\nWinner: Sebastian Mellen, 14, of San Diego, Calif.\nProject: MathSuite: An Innovative Android App that Makes Dreaded Calculations FUN! Published on Google Play!\nSebastian Mellen was awarded the Marconi/Samueli Award for Innovation for his vision and promise as an innovator who, in the spirit of radio inventor Guglielmo Marconi, demonstrated aptitude and skill in technical and mathematical concepts both with his science fair project and throughout team challenges.\n\nMellen was inspired by teachers who struggle with grading students' self-written examinations and classmates who wrestle with math and physics homework. To make their lives easier, Mellen applied his math and engineering acumen to design and develop an Android app for smartphones that can do a broad range of algebra calculations that are routinely used in math, physics and other sciences.\n\nSTEM Award Winners:\nEach of these finalists (first and second place award winners) were selected for demonstrated skills and promise in each of the disciplines represented by STEM. First place winners are awarded $3,500 and second-place winners receive $2,500, in each case to support the finalist's choice of STEM summer camp experiences offered around the country. Each STEM winner also wins an iPad.\n\nScience Award:\nFirst Place: Maximilian Du, Manlius, N.Y., for his project on a new method to measure and extract caffeine from drinks.\nSecond place: Hannah O. Cevasco, San Carlos, Calif., for her research on the healing properties of honey.\n\nTechnology Award:\nFirst place: Manasa (Hari) Bhimaraju, Cupertino, Calif., for her project on a low-cost animated teaching tool for the study of elements in the periodic table with an interface for the visually impaired.\nSecond place: Anusha Zaman, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, for her project on the potential health effects of betel use.\n\nEngineering Award:\nFirst place: Avery P. Clowes, Bolton, Mass., for his project on an electrostatic generator.\nSecond place: Soyoun Choi, Melbourne, Florida, for her project on the effect of bilingualism on cognitive development in adolescents.\n\nMathematics Award:\nFirst place: David Yue, Plano, Texas for his project on 3-D x-ray reconstruction processing and its application to cancer prevention. \nSecond place: Madison A. Toonder, St. Augustine, Fla., for her project on the study on the effect of sunblock nanoparticles on oysters' ability to filter bay water.\n\nRising Stars Award:\nEvelyn Bodoni, Centennial, Colo., for her project on the prevalence and reasons for student cheating. \nAnish Singhani, San Ramon, Calif., for his project on an electronic system that lets a person use brain waves to control devices, such as a wheelchair and computer keyboard.\n\nScott A. McGregor Leadership Award:\nAvery P. Clowes, Bolton, Mass.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53158313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53158313", "title": "COLREG Tutor", "text": "COLREG Tutor\n\nCOLREG Tutor is an application created by Alistair Baillie, a merchant navy officer as a means of assisting cadets and deck officers studying for their Maritime & Coast Guard Agency Orals Examinations to learn the practical side of the International Rules for the Prevention of Collisions at Sea. It is compatible with Mac OS X and Windows 10.\n\n"}
{"id": "7554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7554", "title": "Carl Rogers", "text": "Carl Rogers\n\nCarl Ransom Rogers (January 8, 1902 – February 4, 1987) was an American psychologist and among the founders of the humanistic approach (or client-centered approach) to psychology. Rogers is widely considered to be one of the founding fathers of psychotherapy research and was honored for his pioneering research with the Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions by the American Psychological Association (APA) in 1956.\n\nThe person-centered approach, his own unique approach to understanding personality and human relationships, found wide application in various domains such as psychotherapy and counseling (client-centered therapy), education (student-centered learning), organizations, and other group settings. For his professional work he was bestowed the Award for Distinguished Professional Contributions to Psychology by the APA in 1972. In a study by Steven J. Haggbloom and colleagues using six criteria such as citations and recognition, Rogers was found to be the sixth most eminent psychologist of the 20th century and second, among clinicians, only to Sigmund Freud.\n\nRogers was born on January 8, 1902, in Oak Park, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. His father, Walter A. Rogers, was a civil engineer, a Congregationalist by denomination. His mother, Julia M. Cushing, was a homemaker and devout Baptist. The Congregationalists and the Baptists tended to be Calvinistic and Fundamentalists at the time. Carl was the fourth of their six children.\n\nRogers was intelligent and could read well before kindergarten. Following an education in a strict religious and ethical environment as an altar boy at the vicarage of Jimpley, he became a rather isolated, independent and disciplined person, and acquired a knowledge and an appreciation for the scientific method in a practical world. His first career choice was agriculture, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he was a part of the fraternity of Alpha Kappa Lambda, followed by history and then religion. At age 20, following his 1922 trip to Peking, China, for an international Christian conference, he started to doubt his religious convictions. To help him clarify his career choice, he attended a seminar entitled \"Why am I entering the Ministry?\", after which he decided to change his career. In 1924, he graduated from University of Wisconsin and enrolled at Union Theological Seminary (New York City). He later became an atheist.\n\nAfter two years he left the seminary to attend Teachers College, Columbia University, obtaining an MA in 1928 and a PhD in 1931. While completing his doctoral work, he engaged in child study. In 1930, Rogers served as director of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children in Rochester, New York. From 1935 to 1940 he lectured at the University of Rochester and wrote \"The Clinical Treatment of the Problem Child\" (1939), based on his experience in working with troubled children. He was strongly influenced in constructing his client-centered approach by the post-Freudian psychotherapeutic practice of Otto Rank, especially as embodied in the work of Rank's disciple, noted clinician and social work educator Jessie Taft. In 1940 Rogers became professor of clinical psychology at Ohio State University, where he wrote his second book, \"Counseling and Psychotherapy\" (1942). In it, Rogers suggested that the client, by establishing a relationship with an understanding, accepting therapist, can resolve difficulties and gain the insight necessary to restructure their life.\n\nIn 1945, he was invited to set up a counseling center at the University of Chicago. In 1947 he was elected President of the American Psychological Association. While a professor of psychology at the University of Chicago (1945–57), Rogers helped to establish a counseling center connected with the university and there conducted studies to determine the effectiveness of his methods. His findings and theories appeared in \"Client-Centered Therapy\" (1951) and \"Psychotherapy and Personality Change\" (1954). One of his graduate students at the University of Chicago, Thomas Gordon, established the Parent Effectiveness Training (P.E.T.) movement. Another student, Eugene T. Gendlin, who was getting his Ph.D. in philosophy, developed the practice of Focusing based on Rogerian listening. In 1956, Rogers became the first President of the American Academy of Psychotherapists. He taught psychology at the University of Wisconsin, Madison (1957–63), during which time he wrote one of his best-known books, \"On Becoming a Person\" (1961). Carl Rogers and Abraham Maslow (1908–70) pioneered a movement called humanistic psychology which reached its peak in the 1960s. In 1961, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Carl Rogers was also one of the people who questioned the rise of McCarthyism in 1950s. Through articles, he criticized society for its backward-looking affinities.\n\nRogers continued teaching at University of Wisconsin until 1963, when he became a resident at the new Western Behavioral Sciences Institute (WBSI) in La Jolla, California. Rogers left the WBSI to help found the Center for Studies of the Person in 1968. His later books include \"Carl Rogers on Personal Power\" (1977) and \"Freedom to Learn for the 80's\" (1983). He remained a resident of La Jolla for the rest of his life, doing therapy, giving speeches and writing until his sudden death in 1987. In 1987, Rogers suffered a fall that resulted in a fractured pelvis: he had life alert and was able to contact paramedics. He had a successful operation, but his pancreas failed the next night and he died a few days later after a heart attack. \n\nRogers's last years were devoted to applying his theories in situations of political oppression and national social conflict, traveling worldwide to do so. In Belfast, Northern Ireland, he brought together influential Protestants and Catholics; in South Africa, blacks and whites; in Brazil people emerging from dictatorship to democracy; in the United States, consumers and providers in the health field. His last trip, at age 85, was to the Soviet Union, where he lectured and facilitated intensive experiential workshops fostering communication and creativity. He was astonished at the numbers of Russians who knew of his work.\n\nTogether with his daughter, Natalie Rogers, and psychologists Maria Bowen, Maureen O'Hara, and John K. Wood, between 1974 and 1984, Rogers convened a series of residential programs in the US, Europe, Brazil and Japan, the Person-Centered Approach Workshops, which focused on cross-cultural communications, personal growth, self-empowerment, and learning for social change.\n\nRogers' theory of the self is considered to be humanistic, existential, and phenomenological. His theory is based directly on the \"phenomenal field\" personality theory of Combs and Snygg (1949). Rogers' elaboration of his own theory is extensive. He wrote 16 books and many more journal articles describing it. Prochaska and Norcross (2003) states Rogers \"consistently stood for an empirical evaluation of psychotherapy. He and his followers have demonstrated a humanistic approach to conducting therapy and a scientific approach to evaluating therapy need not be incompatible.\"\n\nHis theory (as of 1953) was based on 19 propositions:\n\nIn relation to No. 17, Rogers is known for practicing \"unconditional positive regard\", which is defined as accepting a person \"without negative judgment of ... [a person's] basic worth\".\n\nWith regard to development, Rogers described principles rather than stages. The main issue is the development of a self-concept and the progress from an undifferentiated self to being fully differentiated.\n\nIn the development of the self-concept, he saw conditional and unconditional positive regard as key. Those raised in an environment of unconditional positive regard have the opportunity to fully actualize themselves. Those raised in an environment of conditional positive regard feel worthy only if they match conditions (what Rogers describes as \"conditions of worth\") that have been laid down for them by others.\n\nOptimal development, as referred to in proposition 14, results in a certain process rather than static state. He describes this as \"the good life\", where the organism continually aims to fulfill its full potential. He listed the characteristics of a fully functioning person (Rogers 1961):\n\nRogers identified the \"real self\" as the aspect of one's being that is founded in the actualizing tendency, follows organismic valuing, needs and receives positive regard and self-regard. It is the \"you\" that, if all goes well, you will become. On the other hand, to the extent that our society is out of sync with the actualizing tendency, and we are forced to live with conditions of worth that are out of step with organismic valuing, and receive only conditional positive regard and self-regard, we develop instead an \"ideal self\". By ideal, Rogers is suggesting something not real, something that is always out of our reach, the standard we cannot meet. This gap between the real self and the ideal self, the \"I am\" and the \"I should\" is called \"incongruity\".\n\nRogers described the concepts of \"congruence\" and \"incongruence\" as important ideas in his theory. In proposition #6, he refers to the actualizing tendency. At the same time, he recognized the need for \"positive regard\". In a fully congruent person realizing their potential is not at the expense of experiencing positive regard. They are able to lead lives that are authentic and genuine. Incongruent individuals, in their pursuit of positive regard, lead lives that include falseness and do not realize their potential. Conditions put on them by those around them make it necessary for them to forgo their genuine, authentic lives to meet with the approval of others. They live lives that are not true to themselves, to who they are on the inside out.\n\nRogers suggested that the incongruent individual, who is always on the defensive and cannot be open to all experiences, is not functioning ideally and may even be malfunctioning. They work hard at maintaining/protecting their self-concept. Because their lives are not authentic this is a difficult task and they are under constant threat. They deploy \"defense mechanisms\" to achieve this. He describes two mechanisms: \"distortion\" and \"denial\". Distortion occurs when the individual perceives a threat to their self-concept. They distort the perception until it fits their self-concept.\n\nThis defensive behavior reduces the consciousness of the threat but not the threat itself. And so, as the threats mount, the work of protecting the self-concept becomes more difficult and the individual becomes more defensive and rigid in their self structure. If the incongruence is immoderate this process may lead the individual to a state that would typically be described as neurotic. Their functioning becomes precarious and psychologically vulnerable. If the situation worsens it is possible that the defenses cease to function altogether and the individual becomes aware of the incongruence of their situation. Their personality becomes disorganised and bizarre; irrational behavior, associated with earlier denied aspects of self, may erupt uncontrollably.\n\nRogers originally developed his theory to be the foundation for a system of therapy. He initially called this \"non-directive therapy\" but later replaced the term \"non-directive\" with the term \"client-centered\" and then later used the term \"person-centered\". Even before the publication of \"Client-Centered Therapy\" in 1951, Rogers believed that the principles he was describing could be applied in a variety of contexts and not just in the therapy situation. As a result, he started to use the term \"person-centered approach\" later in his life to describe his overall theory. Person-centered therapy is the application of the person-centered approach to the therapy situation. Other applications include a theory of personality, interpersonal relations, education, nursing, cross-cultural relations and other \"helping\" professions and situations. In 1946 Rogers co-authored \"Counseling with Returned Servicemen\" with John L. Wallen (the creator of the behavioral model known as \"The Interpersonal Gap\"), documenting the application of person-centered approach to counseling military personnel returning from the second world war.\n\nThe first empirical evidence of the effectiveness of the client-centered approach was published in 1941 at the Ohio State University by Elias Porter, using the recordings of therapeutic sessions between Carl Rogers and his clients. Porter used Rogers' transcripts to devise a system to measure the degree of directiveness or non-directiveness a counselor employed. The attitude and orientation of the counselor were demonstrated to be instrumental in the decisions made by the client.\n\nThe application to education has a large robust research tradition similar to that of therapy with studies having begun in the late 1930s and continuing today (Cornelius-White, 2007). Rogers described the approach to education in \"Client-Centered Therapy\" and wrote \"Freedom to Learn\" devoted exclusively to the subject in 1969. \"Freedom to Learn\" was revised two times. The new Learner-Centered Model is similar in many regards to this classical person-centered approach to education.\nRogers and Harold Lyon began a book prior to Rogers death, entitled \"On Becoming an Effective Teacher—Person-centered Teaching, Psychology, Philosophy, and Dialogues with Carl R. Rogers and Harold Lyon\", which was completed by Lyon and Reinhard Tausch and published in 2013 containing Rogers last unpublished writings on person-centered teaching. Rogers had the following five hypotheses regarding learner-centered education:\n\nIn 1970, Richard Young, Alton L. Becker, and Kenneth Pike published \"Rhetoric: Discovery and Change\", a widely influential college writing textbook that used a Rogerian approach to communication to revise the traditional Aristotelian framework for rhetoric. The Rogerian method of argument involves each side restating the other's position to the satisfaction of the other. In a paper, it can be expressed by carefully acknowledging and understanding the opposition, rather than dismissing them.\n\nThe application to cross-cultural relations has involved workshops in highly stressful situations and global locations including conflicts and challenges in South Africa, Central America, and Ireland. Along with Alberto Zucconi and Charles Devonshire, he co-founded the Istituto dell'Approccio Centrato sulla Persona (Person-Centered Approach Institute) in Rome, Italy.\n\nHis international work for peace culminated in the Rust Peace Workshop which took place in November 1985 in Rust, Austria. Leaders from 17 nations convened to discuss the topic \"The Central America Challenge\". The meeting was notable for several reasons: it brought national figures together as people (not as their positions), it was a private event, and was an overwhelming positive experience where members heard one another and established real personal ties, as opposed to stiffly formal and regulated diplomatic meetings.\n\nSome scholars believe there is a politics implicit in Rogers's approach to psychotherapy. Toward the end of his life, Rogers came to that view himself. The central tenet of a Rogerian, person-centered politics is that public life does not have to consist of an endless series of winner-take-all battles among sworn opponents; rather, it can and should consist of an ongoing dialogue among all parties. Such dialogue would be characterized by respect among the parties, authentic speaking by each party, and – ultimately – empathic understanding among all parties. Out of such understanding, mutually acceptable solutions would (or at least could) flow.\n\nDuring his last decade, Rogers facilitated or participated in a wide variety of dialogic activities among politicians, activists, and other social leaders, often outside the U.S. In addition, he lent his support to several non-traditional U.S. political initiatives, including the \"12-Hour Political Party\" of the Association for Humanistic Psychology and the founding of a \"transformational\" political organization, the New World Alliance. By the 21st century, interest in dialogic approaches to political engagement and change had become widespread, especially among academics and activists. Theorists of a specifically Rogerian, person-centered approach to politics as dialogue have made substantial contributions to that project.\n\nCarl Rogers served on the board of the Human Ecology Fund from the late 50s into the 60s, which was a CIA-funded organization that provided grants to researchers looking into personality. In addition, he and other people in the field of personality and psychotherapy were given a lot of information about Khrushchev. 'We were asked to figure out what we thought of him and what would be the best way of dealing with him. And that seemed to be an entirely principled and legitimate aspect. I don't think we contributed very much, but, anyway, we tried.' \".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2287044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2287044", "title": "Compulsory education", "text": "Compulsory education\n\nCompulsory education refers to a period of education that is required of all people and is imposed by government. Depending on the country, this education may take place at a registered school (schooling) or at home (homeschooling). \"Compulsory education differs from compulsory attendance, which means that parents are obliged to send their children to a certain school. Compulsory education involves both the duty imposed upon parents by law to see that their children receive instruction, and the prerogative of every child to be educated.\"\n\nInternational Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights requires, within a reasonable number of years, the principle of compulsory education free of charge for all.\n\nIn old times, compulsory education was to master physical skills which are necessary and can be contributed to the nation. And it instilled values of ethics and social communications abilities into teenagers's minds. Plus, it would allow immigrants to fit in the unacquainted society of a new country. Nowadays, compulsory education has been considered as rights for every citizens in many countries. It is mostly used to advance the educated quality of all the citizens, minimize the students who stop going to school because of family economic reasons, and also, balance the education differences between rural and urban areas.\n\nThe compulsory education in each country depends on what the politic system the country has and how well is the education system developed in the country. On the other hand, in the republic countries, being educated is necessary and important for every citizen, and there are strict laws about compulsory education (Camp 181).\n\nCompulsory education was not unheard of in ancient times. However instances are generally tied to royal, religious or military organization—substantially different from modern notions of compulsory education.\n\nPlato's \"The Republic\" (c. 424–c. 348 BCE) is credited with having popularized the concept of compulsory education in Western intellectual thought. Plato's rationale was straightforward. The ideal city would require ideal individuals, and ideal individuals would require an ideal education. \nThe popularization of Plato's ideas began with the wider Renaissance and the translation of Plato's works by Marsilio Ficino (1433–1499), culminating in the Enlightenment. The Enlightenment philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, known for his own work on education (including Emile, or On Education), said, 'To get a good idea of public education, read Plato’s Republic. It is not a political treatise, as those who merely judge books by their title think, but it is the finest, most beautiful work on education ever written.'\n\nIn Sparta boys between the age 6 and 7 left their homes and were sent to military school. School courses were harsh and have been described as a \"brutal training period\". Between the age of 18 and 20, Spartan males had to pass a test that consisted of fitness, military ability, and leadership skills. A student's failure meant a forfeiture of citizenship (perioidos) and political rights. Passing was a rite of passage to manhood and citizenry, in which he would continue to serve in the military and train as a soldier until the age of 60 when the soldier could retire to live with his family.\n\nEvery parent in Judea since ancient times was required to teach their children at least informally. Over the centuries, as cities, towns and villages developed, a class of teachers called Rabbis evolved. According to the Talmud (tractate Bava Bathra 21a), which praises the sage Joshua ben Gamla with the institution of formal Jewish education in the 1st century AD, Ben Gamla instituted schools in every town and made formal education compulsory from age 6-8.\n\nThe Aztec Triple Alliance, which ruled from 1428 to 1521 in what is now central Mexico, is considered to be the first state to implement a system of universal compulsory education.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation prompted the establishment of compulsory education for boys and girls, first in regions that are now part of Germany, and later in Europe and in the United States.\n\nMartin Luther's seminal text \"An die Ratsherren aller Städte deutschen Landes\" (To the Councillors of all Towns in German Countries,1524) called for establishing compulsory schooling so that all parishioners would be able to read the Bible by themselves. The Protestant South-West of the Holy Roman Empire soon followed suit. In 1559, the German Duchy Württemberg established a compulsory education system for boys. In 1592, the German Duchy Palatinate-Zweibrücken became the first territory in the world with compulsory education for girls and boys, followed in 1598 by Strasbourg, then a free city of the Holy Roman Empire and now part of France.\n\nIn Scotland, the School Establishment Act of 1616 commanded every parish to establish a school for everyone paid for by parishioners. The Parliament of Scotland confirmed this with the Education Act of 1633 and created a local land-based tax to provide the required funding. The required majority support of parishioners, however, provided a tax evasion loophole which heralded the Education Act of 1646. The turmoil of the age meant that in 1661 there was a temporary reversion to the less compulsory 1633 position. However, in 1696 a new Act re-established the compulsory provision of a school in every parish with a system of fines, sequestration, and direct government implementation as a means of enforcement where required.\n\nIn the United States, following Luther and other Reformers, the Separatist Congregationalists who founded Plymouth Colony in 1620, obliged parents to teach their children how to read and write. The Massachusetts School Laws, three legislative acts enacted in the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1642, 1647, and 1648, are commonly regarded as the first steps toward compulsory education in the United States. The 1647 law, in particular, required every town having more than 50 families to hire a teacher, and every town of more than 100 families to establish a school. The Puritan zeal for learning was reflected in the early and rapid rise of educational institutions; e.g., Harvard College was founded as early as 1636.\n\nPrussia implemented a modern compulsory education system in 1763. It was introduced by the Generallandschulreglement (General School Regulation), a decree of Frederick the Great in 1763-5. The Generallandschulreglement, authored by Johann Julius Hecker, asked for all young citizens, girls and boys, to be educated from age 5 to age 13-14 and to be provided with a basic outlook on (Christian) religion, singing, reading and writing based on a regulated, state-provided curriculum of text books. The teachers, often former soldiers, were asked to cultivate silk worms to make a living besides contributions from the local citizens and municipalities.\n\nIn Austria, Hungary and the Lands of the Bohemian Crown (Czech lands), mandatory primary education was introduced by Empress Maria Theresa in 1774.\n\nCompulsory school attendance based on the Prussian model gradually spread to other countries. It was quickly adopted by the governments in Denmark-Norway and Sweden, and also in Finland, Estonia and Latvia within the Russian Empire, but it was rejected in Russia itself.\n\nThe United Kingdom was slow to introduce compulsory education due to the upper class defending its educational privileges. In England and Wales, the Elementary Education Act 1870 paved the way for compulsory education by establishing school boards to set up schools in any places that did not have adequate provision. Attendance was made compulsory until age 10 in 1880. The Education Act of 1996 made it an obligation on parents to require children to have a full-time education from age 5 to 16. However, attendance at school itself is not compulsory: Section 7 of the Act allows for home education.\n\nFrance was equally slow to introduce compulsory education, this time due to conflicts between the secular state and the Catholic Church, and as a result between anti-clerical and Catholic political parties. The first set of Jules Ferry Laws, passed in 1881, made primary education free for girls and boys; communes and departments had the shared responsibility to fund it. In 1882, the second set of Jules Ferry Laws made education compulsory for girls and boys until the age of 13. In 1936, the upper age limit was raised to 14. In 1959, it was further extended to 16.\n\nGermany's compulsory education is supported by the states of Germany. It started in 1619 and improved in the 17th century. It had a huge effect in the country and among a larger number of people than in the United States. \n\nIn 1852, Massachusetts was the first U.S. state to pass a contemporary universal public education law. In particular, the Massachusetts General Court required every town to create and operate a grammar school. Fines were imposed on parents who did not send their children to school, and the government took the power to take children away from their parents and apprentice them to others if government officials decided that the parents were \"unfit to have the children educated properly\".\n\nThe spread of compulsory attendance in the Massachusetts tradition throughout the U.S., especially for Native Americans, has been credited to General Richard Henry Pratt. Pratt used techniques developed on Native Americans in a prisoner of war camp in Fort Marion, Augustine, Florida, to force demographic minorities across America into government schools. His prototype was the Carlisle Indian Industrial School in Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 1918, Mississippi was the last state to enact a compulsory attendance law.\n\nIn 1922 an attempt was made by the voters of Oregon to enact the Oregon Compulsory Education Act, which would require all children between the ages of 8 and 16 to attend State School, only leaving exceptions for mentally or physically unfit children, exceeding a certain living distance from a state school, or having written consent from a county superintendent to receive private instruction. The law was passed by popular vote but was later ruled unconstitutional by the United States Supreme Court in Pierce v. Society of Sisters, determining that \"a child is not a mere creature of the state\". This case settled the dispute about whether or not private schools had the right to do business and educate within the United States.\n\nIn Japan, compulsory education was established shortly after the Meiji Restoration in 1868. Initially, it was strongly influenced by the Prussian education system. After World War II, it was rebuilt to a large extent, and the new education model is largely influenced by the American model. In the Indian kingdom of Travancore, Queen Gowri Parvati Bayi issued a royal rescript declaring universal education and formally recognized the role of State ensure the right of education from public revenue in 1817.\n\nChina’s nine-year compulsory education was established and considered successful. The compulsory education brings huge effects of different aspects of people’s lives. The amount of students became larger and the drop-out rates of students decreased in huge percent, even in the rural area. The purpose of the establishment of compulsory education in China is about “universalization”, which balances the educated differences between the towns and villages (Ding 13). On the other hand, it efficiently improves the quality of the facilities in schools because of the safety guarantee. However, nine-year compulsory education still has problems and needs to be improved. Most of the drop-out students quit schools because of the unwillingness of studies and bad education, instead of not being able to afford the tuition. Therefore, the improvements of Chinese compulsory education are still necessary in the modern society.\n\nThe following table indicates at what ages compulsory education starts and ends, country by country. The most common age for starting compulsory education is 6, although this varies between 3 and 8.\n\nDue to population growth and the proliferation of compulsory education, UNESCO calculated in 2006 that over the subsequent 30 years, more people would receive formal education than in all prior human history.\n\nSince disabled people may need more time to study than normal people due to their disabilities, they are required to go to special schools. The purpose of disabled to go to school is that they will be able to receive more taught education instead of knowledges that are wrongly understood by themselves. Also, someone stated that since there are parents who want their disabled kids to go to work or be spoiled at home instead of going to school, compulsory education can solve the issues from family, which the prohibition of disabled from going to school.\n\nCritics of compulsory education argue that education violates the freedom of children, is a method of political control, is ineffective at teaching children how to deal with the real world, and has extremely negative effects on children leading to higher rates of apathy, bullying, stress, and depression.\n\nPeople have argued that compulsory education has shown its benefits by making certain societies more profitable. People are able to get educated and be employed in companies. However, some people disagree that the main issue it is whether students need to be forced by using the laws and whether schools need to take full responsibility to the students during the period of compulsory education. In the suggestions given by Katz (1971) to the reformers who change the school system, there is one about ending the compulsory education radically. It reflected the discussion about the mandatory level of compulsory education. So the pressure compulsory education has to face is to educate students in order to establish them in the society in future. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5311894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5311894", "title": "Curriculum mapping", "text": "Curriculum mapping\n\nCurriculum mapping is a procedure for reviewing the operational curriculum as it is entered into an electronic database at any education setting. It is based largely on the work of Heidi Hayes Jacobs in \"Mapping the Big Picture: Integrating Curriculum and Assessment K-12\" (ASCD, 1997) and \"Getting Results with Curriculum Mapping\" (2004, ASCD). Schools are using curriculum templates that display key components of the curriculum: content, skills, assessments, and essential questions.\n\nSome states such as South Dakota have adopted curriculum mapping on a statewide basis and provide detailed online curriculum mapping resources for their professional staff. Other states such as Indiana have mandated curriculum mapping as a tool for schools which do not meet Adequate Yearly Progress and also provide numerous online tools.\n\nKey to the approach is that each teacher enters what is actually taught in real-time during the school year, in contrast to having an outside or separate committee determine decisions. The entries by teachers are not left alone, however; in fact, because the work is displayed via internet-based programs, it is open to view by all personnel in a school or district. This allows educators to view both K-12 and across grade levels and subjects what is transpiring in order to be informed and to revise their work.\n\nThe curriculum mapping model as originally defined by Dr. Jacobs has seven specific steps that schools use to thoroughly examine and then revise their curriculum. There are both commercial companies and not-for-profit groups that have generated curriculum mapping software used around the world. Related to mapping, but separate from it, is the concept of a curriculum audit, described by Fenwick W. English. in \"Deciding What to Teach and Test: Developing, Auditing, and Aligning the Curriculum\" (1999, Sage).\n\nCurriculum mapping is not limited to United States public schools. A number of independent schools have adopted the curriculum mapping process to review and revise their curriculum. The bulk of schools using curriculum mapping outside the US tend to be independent schools that follow an international curriculum (such as IB, AERO, or IGCSE) or public schools located in Anglo-Saxon countries.\n\nA development of a consensus map (also called an essential map, core map, district map, or master map) takes places in Phase 3 of Heidi Hayes Jacobs’s Four Phases of Curriculum Mapping. Hale (2008) distinguishes between consensus maps and essential maps, assigning the former to the building level, and the latter to the district level (p. 145). Jacobs (2004) defines a consensus map as one that “reflects the policy agreed on by a professional staff that targets those specific areas in each discipline that are to be addressed with consistency and flexibility in a school or district” (para. 4; Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 65). It provides an opportunity, by thoughtful reflection, for teachers to have a common ground for communication about their curriculum while also maintaining the necessary flexibility to do what is right for each child. Hale (2008) adds that a consensus map functions as a communication tool to convey to stakeholders the students’ learning expectations (p. 145). Ideally, it comes later in the curriculum mapping process - after horizontal and vertical data examination and after interdisciplinary or mixed-group review (Jacobs, 2004, para. 13). According to Jacobs and Johnson (2009) mixed group reviews “add a unique perspective to the process and are sometimes able to see things that other teachers do not” (p. 58). For example, a social studies teacher might be able to observe that students are taught the Holocaust in 9th grade social studies and again in 10th grade English. An effective map would seek to marry the two instructional units, eliminating redundancies and providing a cross-disciplinary approach to instruction. By this time, professionals are working on “multiple levels and tiers” (Jacobs, n.d.), reviewing the maps for “possible gaps, repetitions, or omissions” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 57). This takes time and, as with all curriculum mapping, cannot be rushed and the big picture must be taken into account. Phase 3 in the Mapping Process is critical because “ if we don't have consensus on where we want to go, we will never get there” (Jacobs, n.d.).\n\nA consensus map might include what they district staff have targeted as the “nonnegotiables that will be taught in each grade level or subject in a school or district” and should represent “best practices, 21st century curriculum, higher order thinking, high standards, and clearly defined grade- or course-level expectations” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 65). According to Hale (2008), its elements are “compulsory and are designed according to national, state, [or] district… standard[s]” (p. 146). They may include content and skills, essential questions, and required assessments.\n\nIndividual curriculum maps are “developed by individual teachers [and] reflect what they teach in their class or classes. They include essential questions, content, skills, and assessments” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 115). More detailed than the consensus map, “allow for individual teacher autonomy” (Hale, 2008, p. 146). In a small school “with only one section of a course or subject, the individual map becomes the consensus map” (Jacobs & Johnson, 2009, p. 65). These maps showcase what takes place in an individual classroom, ideally providing evidence of the students’ learning with that teacher. For example, in a Unit applying ELA Standard RL11-12.5, students are expected to learn to “[a]nalyze how an author's choices concerning how to structure specific parts of a text (e.g., the choice of where to begin or end a story, the choice to provide a comedic or tragic resolution) contribute to its overall structure and meaning as well as its aesthetic impact.” While a teacher may choose to teach this standard using The Crucible by Arthur Miller, theoretically, another teacher may use a series of short stories, or perhaps even a novel. While the standard is the same and would be represented on the consensus map (as would the common assessments), the individual map would show the different content being employed in the classroom, along with the activities and skill work that might be specific to the piece of literature under study. Jacobs & Johnson (2009) suggest that “[i]deally, a school or district is able to focus on individual maps first, and then map the taught curriculum,” though they do acknowledge that some schools do the reverse, often under external influences that can rush the process (p. 67).\n\nBoth consensus and individual maps might show the essential questions for units of study and content learned, but individual maps will be more detailed in regards to the daily activities, strategies, and assignments that introduce, practice, and inspire mastery of the skills and standards indicated on the consensus map, the latter of which will also eventually mandate the common or same assessments that should take place across the board in individual classrooms. By the daily trial and error that is inherent in an individual map, resources might be suggested to the consensus map.\n\nThere are online programs that offer insight to curriculum mapping throughout the year. Take OnCourse Systems for Education's Curriculum Builder tool, when used in tandem with the Lesson Planner it can create a report that will show you all standards that have been aligned to units and what standards still need to be addressed.\n"}
{"id": "1073267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1073267", "title": "Erasmus Programme", "text": "Erasmus Programme\n\nThe Erasmus Programme (\"EuRopean Community Action Scheme for the Mobility of University Students\") is a European Union (EU) student exchange programme established in 1987. Erasmus+, or Erasmus Plus, is the new programme combining all the EU's current schemes for education, training, youth and sport, which was started in January 2014.\n\nThe Erasmus Programme, together with a number of other independent programmes, was incorporated into the Socrates programme established by the European Commission in 1994. The Socrates programme ended on 31 December 1999 and was replaced with the Socrates II programme on 24 January 2000, which in turn was replaced by the Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013 on 1 January 2007.\n\nThe programme is named after the Dutch philosopher, theologian, Renaissance Humanist, monk, and devout Roman Catholic, Desiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam, called \"the crowning glory of the Christian humanists\". Erasmus, along with his good friend Thomas More, became the center of European intellectual life during the Renaissance. Known for his satire, Erasmus urged internal reform of the Catholic Church. He encouraged a recovery of the Catholic Patristic tradition against contemporary abuses of the Sacraments and certain excessive devotional practices. He famously clashed with Protestant revolutionary Martin Luther on the subject of free will. ERASMUS is a backronym meaning \"EuRopean community Action Scheme for the Mobility of University Students\".\n\nBy the time the Erasmus Programme was adopted in June 1987, the European Commission had been supporting pilot student exchanges for 6 years. It proposed the original Erasmus Programme in early 1986, but reaction from the then Member States varied: those with substantial exchange programmes of their own (essentially France, Germany and the United Kingdom) were broadly hostile; the remaining countries were broadly in favour. Exchanges between the Member States and the European Commission deteriorated, and the latter withdrew the proposal in early 1987 to protest against the inadequacy of the triennial budget proposed by some Member States.\n\nThis method of voting was not accepted by some of the opposing Member States, who challenged the adoption of the decision before the European Court of Justice. Although the Court held that the adoption was procedurally flawed, it maintained the substance of the decision; a further decision, adapted in the light of the jurisprudence, was rapidly adopted by the Council of Ministers.\n\nThe programme built on the 1981–1986 pilot student exchanges, and although it was formally adopted only shortly before the beginning of the academic year 1987-1988, it was still possible for 3,244 students to participate in Erasmus in its first year. In 2006, over 150,000 students, or almost 1% of the European student population, took part. The proportion is higher among university teachers, where Erasmus teacher mobility is 1.9% of the teacher population in Europe, or 20,877 people.\n\nIn the past twenty years, over two million students<ref name=\"Survey of the Socio-Economic Background of Erasmus Students - DG EAC 01/05\">Ec.europa.eu , Table: Erasmus student mobility (number of outgoing students): 1987/88-2006/07</ref> have benefited from Erasmus grants, and the European Commission aims to reach a total of 3 million by 2012.\n\nThe Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013 replaced the Socrates programme as the overall umbrella under which the Erasmus (and other) programmes operate from 2007.\n\nThe Erasmus Mundus programme is another, parallel programme that is oriented towards globalising European education. Whereas the Erasmus Programme is open to Europeans, Erasmus Mundus is open to non-Europeans with Europeans being exceptional cases.\n\nOn 9 May 2012, Fraternité 2020 was registered as Europe's first European Citizens' Initiative. Its goal was to increase the budget for EU exchange programmes like Erasmus or the European Voluntary Service from 2014. To be successful it would have needed 1 million signatures by 1 November 2013. It ultimately collected only 71,057 signatures from citizens across the EU.\n\nErasmus+ (2014-2020), also called Erasmus Plus, is the new 14.7 billion euro catch-all framework programme for education, training, youth and sport. The new Erasmus+ programme combines all the EU's current schemes for education, training, youth and sport, including the Lifelong Learning Programme (Erasmus, Leonardo da Vinci, Comenius, Grundtvig), Youth in Action and five international co-operation programmes (Erasmus Mundus, Tempus, Alfa, Edulink and the programme for co-operation with industrialised countries). The Erasmus+ regulation was signed on 11 December 2013.\n\nErasmus+ [...] provides grants for a wide range of actions including the opportunity for students to undertake work placements abroad and for teachers and education staff to attend training courses.\n\nErasmus+ key action 1 provides a unique opportunity for teachers, headmasters, trainers and other staff of education institutions to participate in international training courses in different European countries.\n\nThe staff home institution shall apply to receive the grant to send its staff members abroad for training.\n\nErasmus+ also conducts projects in Central Asia's Kazakhstan. The programme funded 40 projects involving 47 universities in Kazakhstan. The total sum of the grant amounted to more than 35.5 million euro.\n\nThere are currently more than 4,000 higher institutions participating in Erasmus across the 37 countries involved in the Erasmus programme and by 2013, 3 million students had taken part since the programme's inception in 1987. In 2012-13 alone, 270,000 took part, the most popular destinations being Spain, Germany, Italy and France. Erasmus students represented 5 percent of European graduates as of 2012.\n\nStudies have discussed issues related to the selection into the programme and the representativeness of the participants. Some studies have raised doubts about the inclusiveness of the programme, by socio-economic background, level of study, or academic performance. Thus, one study analyses the financial issues and family background of Erasmus students, showing that despite the fact that access to the programme has been moderately widened, there are still important socio-economic barriers to participation in the programme. Another study uncovered what seems to be an adverse self-selection of Erasmus students based on their prior academic performance, with higher-performing students less likely to participate than lower-performing ones. However, this case was based on a number of four hundred graduates in a Spanish university only. Inversely, one study looking in details at French and Italian students found that the primary predictor of participation to Erasmus was students' prior academic records, not the occupation of their parents. \n\nThe Erasmus Programme had previously been restricted to applicants who had completed at least one year of tertiary-level study, but it is now also available to secondary school students.\n\nStudents who join the Erasmus Programme study at least 3 months or do an internship for a period of at least 2 months to an academic year in another European country. The Erasmus Programme guarantees that the period spent abroad is recognised by their university when they come back, as long as they abide by terms previously agreed. Switzerland has been suspended as a participant in the Erasmus programme as of 2015, following the popular vote to limit the immigration of EU citizens into Switzerland. As a consequence, Swiss students will not be able to apply for the programme and European students will not be able to spend time at a Swiss university under that programme.\n\nA main part of the programme is that students do not pay extra tuition fees to the university that they visit. Students can also apply for an Erasmus grant to help cover the additional expense of living abroad. Students with disabilities can apply for an additional grant to cover extraordinary expenses.\n\nIn order to reduce expenses and increase mobility, many students also use the European Commission-supported accommodation network, CasaSwap, FlatClub, Erasmusinn, Eurasmus, Erasmate or Student Mundial, which are free websites where students and young people can rent, sublet, offer and swap accommodation – on a national and international basis. A derived benefit is that students can share knowledge and exchange tips and hints with each other before and after going abroad.\n\nFor many European students, the Erasmus Programme is their first time living and studying in another country. Hence, it has become a cultural phenomenon and is very popular among European students, going on to become the subject of movies such as the French film \"L'Auberge espagnole\", and the documentary \"Erasmus 24 7\"\n\nThe programme fosters learning and understanding of the host country. The Erasmus experience is considered both a time for learning as well as a chance to socialise.\n\nTutors are often keen for students of subjects such as Politics or International Relations to participate in Erasmus. It is seen as a great opportunity to study abroad while not having the expense of studying outside the European Union, since the grants available to Erasmus students are not available to those opting to leave the continent to study.\n\nSome academics have speculated that former Erasmus students will prove to be a powerful force in creating a pan-European identity. The political scientist Stefan Wolff, for example, has argued that \"Give it 15, 20 or 25 years, and Europe will be run by leaders with a completely different socialisation from those of today\", referring to the so-called 'Erasmus generation'.\n\nMost of the characters in the movie L'Auberge Espagnole are enrolled in the Erasmus programme and the programme plays a central role in the plot.\n\nPakistani novelist Nimra Ahmed's novel \"Jannat K Patte\" (Leaves of Heaven) is based on the Erasmus programme, where the protagonist Haya goes to Sabancı University through Erasmus Mundus, which marks a turning point in her life.\n\nThe online public forum \"cafébabel\" was founded in 2001 by Erasmus exchange programme students, and is headquartered in Paris. The forum is based on the principle of participatory journalism. As of July 2013 it had over 16,000 registered members, up to 1,500 contributors and 20 ‘local offices’ writing about Europe as they see it. Volunteer contributors simultaneously translate the forum into six languages – French, English, German, Italian, Spanish and Polish.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9878518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9878518", "title": "Faneromeni School", "text": "Faneromeni School\n\nFaneromeni School (Greek: Παρθεναγωγείο Φανερωμένης, Turkish: Faneromeni Okulu), founded by Archbishop Makarios I in 1857, was the first all-girls school in Cyprus.\n\nThe founder of the School, Archbishop Makarios I, was instrumental in the establishment of many other schools throughout the island of Cyprus in order to combat illiteracy.\n\nThe School is located in the historical Faneromeni Square, situated in the centre of the capital and within the Venetian medieval walls of Nicosia.\n\nThe School building features predominantly Greek neoclassical architectural traits, as well as, local Cypriot elements.\n\nThe Marble Mausoleum on the eastern side of Faneromeni Church is situated on the front of the building and was built in memory of four clerics executed by the Ottoman governor in 1821, following the Cypriot revolt due to the newly declared Greek War of Independence.\n\nToday it is a co-ed school and the same building houses a nursery, primary and high schools. In 2014 it was announced that the building will be leased to house the University of Cyprus' school of Architecture.\n\nThe school was founded in 1852 after many efforts from the Greek Orthodox Church and especially the Faneromeni church which is situated right in front of the school. Primarily it was used as “parthenagogeio” which means a Girls Only School (G.O.S.). The school had 115 students but only one teacher. The only way she could teach all these children was by using the help of older children as teachers-assistants for the younger ones.\n\nAs from 1903 Faneromeni School was also used for the training of the female teachers. The school took its΄ present form in 1924 with financial assistance from the Faneromeni Church. Nowadays the school is a public school for boys and girls. Within the same building there is a nursery school, a primary school and a high school.\n\n"}
{"id": "8312308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8312308", "title": "Greenwood &amp; Hall", "text": "Greenwood &amp; Hall\n\nGreenwood Hall was a publicly traded educational technology company that provided cloud-based people and technology-enabled solutions designed to help post-secondary institutions better manage the student lifecycle. Greenwood Hall was headquartered in Los Angeles, California and operated student service center facilities in Orange County, California, Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, Phoenix, Arizona, and College Station, Texas. The Company ceased operations on December 15, 2017, after its assets were sold to Answernet. The former Company's assets now operate as Answernet Education Services, in Phoenix, Arizona, from the same facility operated by Greenwood Hall, prior to it ceasing operations.\n\nGreenwood Hall was founded by Dr. John R. Hall and Zan Greenwood in 1997. In 1998, Greenwood Hall commenced call center operations from a facility in Irvine, California and a partner location in nearby Santa Ana, California. The Company focused on building its call center network during the first years of operations to support the needs of the direct response television industry and large television infomercials.\n\nIn 2000, the Company expanded its operations to include customer relationship management, logistics, fulfillment, and other related services as demand for the outsourcing of these services continued to increase significantly.\n\nThe Company relocated its corporate headquarters in August 2002 from Irvine to Santa Ana, California.\n\nIn the fall of 2006, the Company announced an expansion of its services and infrastructure and to accommodate significant new demand within higher education. In October 2007, Greenwood & Hall acquired the Financial Aid Solutions (FAS) Division of Nelnet, Inc.\n\nAs of 2010, Greenwood Hall shifted its focus to helping colleges and universities manage the student lifecycle.\n\nIn 2013, Greenwood Hall commenced a restructuring, during which time the Company shed unprofitable business and made changes to its management team.\n\nIn August 2014, the Company announced it completed an $8 million recapitalization which included refinancing of its bank debt and an equity infusion for expansion purposes. In conjunction with the recapitalization, the Company became a publicly traded entity.\n\nIn May 2015, the Company opened a new student services center in Phoenix, Arizona, relocating its California operations to this facility. The Company located its corporate headquarters and sales offices to West Los Angeles, California in conjunction with this move.\n\nIn July 2017, John R. Hall, Greenwood Hall's Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, abruptly resigned from the Company after 19 years serving as CEO. In his resignation letter, Hall expressed concerns regarding his ability to operate the Company based on constraints Hall stated were being imposed on Greenwood Hall by its lender. In his letter, Hall also indicated he was owed back pay as well as approximately $250,000 in funds he incurred on Greenwood Hall's behalf.\n\nIn August 2017, Bill Bradfield, Greenwood Hall's EVP of Business Development and the former Founder & CEO of Perceptis, Inc. was appointed the Company's Chief Executive Officer.\n\nIn October 2017, it was announced that Greenwood Hall was moving its operations and corporate headquarters to South Carolina, where it planned to invest over $1.4 million and hire more than 300 employees.\n\nIn December 2017, Greenwood Hall abruptly closed its Bryan, TX and Myrtle Beach, SC locations and it was reported that the assets of Greenwood Hall were sold to Answernet and that Answernet would continue to operate the Company's Phoenix, AZ location rebranded Answernet Education Services.\n\nGreenwood Hall provided cloud-based services for higher education institutions that support the student lifecycle.\n"}
{"id": "42153498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42153498", "title": "Henry Danton", "text": "Henry Danton\n\nHenry Danton (born Henry David Boileau Down; 30 March 1919) is a British dancer, teacher, and stager of classical ballet.\n\nDanton was a prolific dancer in London during and immediately after World War II. In the UK, Danton performed as a soloist in the International Ballet partnering Mona Inglesby in \"Les Sylphides\" and \"Swan Lake\" 1943–44, and with the Sadler's Wells Ballet 1944–46, where he appeared with Margot Fonteyn, Beryl Grey, and Violetta Elvin in the \"Rose Adagio\" and Pamela May in \"Les Sylphides\" and created leading roles in a number of works, most notably in Sir Frederick Ashton's \"Symphonic Variations\" partnering Moira Shearer.\n\nPrivately educated with Judith Espinosa, he passed the Royal Academy of Dancing's four exams with honours winning the Adeline Genée Silver Medal after just 18 months of classical ballet training. During the war Danton studied intensively with the Russian teacher Vera Volkova.\n\nIn 1946, he began his international dancing career travelling first to Paris to work with some of the leading Russian teachers of the day, including Victor Gsovsky, and the Imperial Russian Ballet ballerinas Olga Preobrajenska, Lubov Egorova and Mathilde Kschessinskaya.\n\nAs a dancer, Danton appeared with touring ensembles across the UK, Europe, Australasia and South America partnering ballerinas Svetlana Beriosova, Elsa Marianne von Rosen, Colette Marchand, Celia Franca, Irene Skorik, Lycette Darsonval, Sonia Arova, Mia Slavenska, Lynne Golding and others. As a teacher and balletmaster, Danton has worked extensively across the US and South America for more than 65 years, teaching, coaching and staging classical repertoire.\n\nAn important influence on the nascent national ballet companies in Caracas, Venezuela, and Bogota, Colombia, he was also the first classical ballet teacher to be employed at the Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, and the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance, and taught at the Fokine School of Ballet, Ballet Arts, Carnegie Hall, and the Juilliard School in New York City.\n\nIn 2013, at aged 95, Danton continued to teach in Hattiesburg, Mississippi, and also worked as a guest teacher at a number of schools and colleges including Belhaven University, where he staged Mikhail Fokine's \"Les Sylphides\" in the autumn of 2013.\n\nBorn Henry David Boileau Down to a family with French and Scottish ancestry and proud military traditions, Henry Danton attended Crowthorne Towers preparatory school as a child, and later Wellington College and the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, as a King's Cadet.\n\nAged 19, he was commissioned from the Academy in January 1939 as Second Lieutenant in the Royal Artillery and was promoted to Captain at the outbreak of World War II before being retired from active service in 1940. Danton was not finally discharged until late in 1945.\n\nIn the summer of 2001, Danton was part of an \"Artscape\" documentary film produced by ABC TV Arts about the history of ballet in Australia, \"Swan Lake – The Australian Ballet at 50\". In 1951, Danton had performed the role of Siegfried with Lynne Golding and the National Ballet Theatre in the first full-length Australian production of \"Swan Lake\", in Melbourne and on tour to every large and medium-sized town in Australia. The ballet was also performed on tour in New Zealand.\n\nIn the winter of 2007, Danton was celebrated at the Ballet Theatre of Scranton's 50th Anniversary Gala in Scranton, Pennsylvania, when \"Wall Street Journal\" columnist and dance critic, Robert Greskovic, paid tribute to Danton's work with the company over more than four decades.\n\nIn April 2011, Danton was part of the Ninette de Valois: Adventurous Traditionalist Conference at the Royal Ballet Upper School. In the summer of 2011, Danton along with choreographer Gillian Lynne and three other original cast members participated in a revival production of Robert Helpmann's ballet \"Miracle in the Gorbals\". First created in 1944, the dance-drama is set in the notorious Glasgow 1940s slums, with characters including a beggar, a prostitute, a minister, two young lovers and a suicidal woman.\n\nDanton was an important voice in Ismene Brown's 2012 BBC Radio 4 documentary \"Blackout Ballet\" about Mona Inglesby and the International Ballet Company, and was part of the 2014 BBC TV documentary Dancing in the \"Blitz: How World War Two Made British Ballet\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29815440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29815440", "title": "Hong Kong Outstanding Students Awards", "text": "Hong Kong Outstanding Students Awards\n\nThe Hong Kong Outstanding Students Award (Traditional Chinese: ) is a student contest in Hong Kong. The Award aims to encourage promising students with outstanding academic, extra-curricular and community service achievements, and morality.\n\nFrom 1985 to 2010, the Award was organized by the Lion & Globe Educational Trust and co-organized by the Outstanding Young Persons' Association. Starting from 2011, the Award is organized by the Youth Arch Foundation and co-organized by the Outstanding Young Persons' Association. Every year, about ten secondary school students from local and international schools in Hong Kong are selected to be the \"Hong Kong Outstanding Students\".\n\nThe Award began in 1985 as the \"Hong Kong Outstanding Female Students Award\", which only accepted applications from female students; it was opened to male students in 1987. Over the first 25 years, the Award had been organized by Doreen Leung, the first female recipient of the Outstanding Young Persons of the World. Since Leung died in 2009, a group of past winners and finalists of the Award founded the Youth Arch Foundation in 2010, succeeding to the role of Leung as the event organizer of the Awards.\n\n\nBefore 2011, applicants first needed to sit for a written test that comprises questions from all disciplines, including languages, mathematics, logic, science, history, geography and current issues. 40 finalists would be selected to participate in the group interview, after which 10 or 11 winners would be selected.\n\nSince 2011, applicants, as the first step, are required to take a written test of similar format. 50 finalists are short-listed to participate in a 2-day camp which aims to assess applicants’ inter-personal skills and leadership potential. 20 students are then selected to enter the panel interview round. Finally, 10 winners are chosen based on their performance in all stages.\n\nAll awardess and finalists of the Award are invited to join a four-day summer leadership training camp. Starting from 2011, winners of the Award will be invited to partake in a study tour. In 2013 and 2014, awardees went on to an experiential learning and cycling trip in Cambodia. In 2015, students participated in a service learning and environmental trip in Sumatra, where there were guided to produce environmental-themed videos. \n\nIn 2009, Doreen Leung, died. In memory of her, Youth Arch Foundation set up the Doreen Leung Memorial Service Award in 2010 to uphold her selfless spirit of serving the community.\n\nThe awardee is selected according to his or her community services records, as well as voting result among the nominees. Chung To, a social leader and Chi Heng Foundation Founder and Chairperson, will be the mentor of the awardee for a year.\n\nThe winners and finalists of the Award founded the Hong Kong Outstanding Students' Association (HKOSA) in 1987, a student-run organization. All winners and finalists of the Award are automatically enrolled to HKOSA once they are shortlisted to enter the final interview round.\n\nThe organization has initiated a number of creative and innovative projects that aim to inspire other secondary school students in different ways. Some of the regular activities organized include the annual Leadership Interflow Camp since 1991, the Volunteer Training Scheme since 1998, the Hong Kong Youth Summit, a forum for students to discuss current issues, since 2003, and the International Convergence, which is a multi-cultural experience scheme, since 2005. These activities typically attract participation of over 100 students from different secondary schools.\n\nHKOSA is supported by a group of honorary advisors, which include consuls general, university presidents and government officials. Some of them include:\n\nMany of the winners and finalists achieved excellent results in the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination with a good number of them having obtained 10As and 9As. Many were admitted to universities such as Ivy League institutions and Oxbridge. Up to 2016, the alumni base of the Award (commonly known as “OSArs”) has reached over 1100 people. Many of them now work in fields including government, business, law, medicine, entertainment, education, architecture, journalism, and engineering.\n\nSome of the notable winners and finalists are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48762452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48762452", "title": "Hopin Academy", "text": "Hopin Academy\n\nHopin Academy is a for-profit educational organization based in Tamale, Ghana that is open to anyone. Open 24 hours a day, Hopin Academy derives its name from its educational philosophy as a school designed for students to “hop in and hop out,\" rather than having strictly organized timetable structures. The school specializes in training in online marketing, social media communication, writing, video production, entrepreneurial work and web communications. Hopin Academy has established an international academic partnership with Bryn Mawr College and Haverford College through the BiCo-Dalun Summer Action Research Fellowship, a learning program fostered in 2010 where Bryn Mawr and Haverford students create community projects with Ghanaian partners. According to the Hopin Academy website, Hopin Academy offers courses in writing, design, film, and entrepreneurial work. Hopin Academy also provides training to NGOs, government organizations, and other schools, such as the Olive School of Journalism.\n\nHopin Academy was started in 2010 as a social enterprise that aimed to be an alternative to the Ghanaian public education system. The educational initiative was co-founded by a Ghanaian entrepreneur, MacCarthy M. Mac-Gbathy and the Danish film maker and Harvard-trained \"innovator,\" Anders Midtgaard.\n\nIn addition to offering courses and technological resources, Hopin Academy supports Barcamp Tamale, which is a networking forum hosted in Tamale that connects Ghanaian leaders and innovators with young people. Hopin Academy also supports the Youth Speak Up Project, which is a Ghanaian advocacy program that aims to empower youth through technology education. Hopin Academy has collaborated with other educational institutions in the international community, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "22859718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22859718", "title": "Iken ScientificA 2008", "text": "Iken ScientificA 2008\n\nIken ScientificA is a national level science competition for school children in India. It provides a platform for students to establish a connection between curricular knowledge and practical application, experiment with what they've been taught and showcase their scientific talents and skills.\n\nIt was introduced in 2007. It was held in 8 cities, 300 leading schools and 10,000 students of which 8 winners were selected, who were all given the title of Student Icons. The winners were put through three rounds of competition before being selected Student Icons.\nThe winners in the competition won prizes and scholarships worth over Rs. 600,000 collectively.\n\nScientificA 2008 saw a participation of 1200 schools across 20 cities and saw an enthusiastic crowd of over 400,000 students from class 5-8. This year saw the introduction of a concept called Enterprise Index (EI), where every student received a learning analysis report consisting of details of his relative performance vis-à-vis other participants. 160 students witnessed the exciting events like Techno Maze and Junkreate testing their talent. The National Final at Mumbai shortlisted 40 finalists who were given laptops and medals as prizes and 4 student icons selected, one from each class was awarded a trip to Singapore over and above other prizes. Surya Chandra Kalia, Class 6, Gundecha Education Academy won from Mumbai. The other three winners were Mrunal Shetty (Class 5) from Vapi, Dipansha Bansal (Class 7) from New Delhi and Aayushi Parikh (Class 8) from Vadodara.\n"}
{"id": "2933912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2933912", "title": "Institut européen·European Institute", "text": "Institut européen·European Institute\n\nThe Institut européen·European Institute (CIFE IE·EI) is an international institution of graduate studies and research, based in Nice, France. It is a department of the Centre international de formation européenne (CIFE).\n\nThe Institut européen-European Institute (CIFE IE-EI) programmes mainly focus on European and international studies. The programmes were launched in 1964 with the support of the Municipality of Nice and the European Commission, formerly held by the \"Institut européen des hautes études internationales\". As a department of the CIFE, the Institut européen-European Institute (IE-EI) aims to perpetuate the teaching of the Master level programmes in European and higher international studies.\n\nThe institute cooperates with numerous universities in central and eastern Europe, especially in Germany, Italy, and Turkey.\n\nIt features an international faculty, which consist of university professors, experts and an equally multicultural student body.\n\nThe institute offers \"The Master in Advanced European and International Studies\" in three different branches: the trilingual studies branch, the European integration and global studies branch, and the mediterranean branch. Its aim is to give students an all-embracing, encompassing vision of the political, social, economic, and cultural problems of today’s modern world. Students who successfully complete the programme acquire 60 ECTS credits.(or 90 ECTS if they opt for the professional internship module)\n\nAll programmes aim to offer university-level education oriented towards the professional world. They are open to students of all disciplines and nationalities who have completed a second cycle of higher education. The Master level programmes all award the professional title of \"Policy officer in European and international organisations\", recognised by the French state.\n\nThe curriculum is divided into three sections. These diplomas are structured around four basic modules oriented towards International Relations, European Construction, Democracy and Society and/or Federalism, in addition to professional workshops and specialisation modules based on the branches of study. They are all itinerant: taught in different places over one academic year.\n\nThe trilingual branch of the MAEIS comprises terms in Nice and Berlin and Canterbury –at the Univesity of Kent– which cooperates with the ' CIFE IE·EI', and a study trip to European and international organisations in Brussels, Luxembourg and Strasbourg. It is the only Master’s program in European and International Studies taught in three languages (French, English, and German).\n\nThis anglophone branch of the MAEIS contains study visits in Berlin, Nice, Rome or Istanbul. Further this branch contains a study trip to European and international organisations in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg.\n\nThis bilingual programme is taught in English and French with terms in Nice, Tunis, Istanbul and a study trip in Rome. It aims to provide academic training by developing contemporary issues and debates focusing on Euro-Mediterranean relations. \n\nThe CIFE arranges S\"ummer University programmes\" taught in English and/or French in various European countries. These are typically of short duration and organized during the summer months. In collaboration with the teaching staff of the IE-EI and local partner universities, the training courses enable researchers or young professionals to deepen their knowledge in the fields of European integration, international relations and the latest topical issues.\n\nClub de Nice - Énergie et géopolitique\n\nIdentité européenne\n\n"}
{"id": "15745132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15745132", "title": "International Analog Forestry Network", "text": "International Analog Forestry Network\n\nThe International Analog Forestry Network (IAFN) is a non-governmental organization (NGO) that seeks to conserve and restore biodiversity worldwide through the application of analog forestry. The IAFN links a variety of community, governmental, and private organizations (29 as of November, 2012), as well as a number of individuals, who apply the practices and principles of analog forestry in their work. \n\nThe IAFN was established in 1995 to facilitate the exchange of knowledge and experience among analog forestry practitioners and to further promote the system. The IAFN supports its partners through the development of technical manuals and promotional materials, training, research, and creating improved marketing opportunities. The IAFN established and currently monitors the Forest Garden Product standard, a certification standard for goods produced within forest gardens, which encompasses the requirements of most organic certification but with additional restrictions to further the protection of biodiversity. FGP standards are being adapted to certify minerals that have been \"responsibly mined,\" as well as ecosystem services and products, such as carbon credits. \n\nThe office of the IAFN is currently located in Londres, Puntarenas, Costa Rica.\n\n"}
{"id": "6402268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6402268", "title": "Kevin Brockmeier", "text": "Kevin Brockmeier\n\nKevin John Brockmeier (born December 6, 1972) is an American writer of fantasy and literary fiction. His short stories have been printed in numerous publications and he has published two collections of stories, two children's novels, and two fantasy novels. Brockmeier, who was born and raised in Little Rock, Arkansas, is a graduate of Parkview Arts and Science Magnet High School (1991) and Southwest Missouri State University (1995). He taught at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, where he received his MFA in 1997, and lives in Little Rock.\n\nBrockmeier has won three O. Henry Prizes, the Chicago Tribune's Nelson Algren Award for Short Fiction, Italo Calvino Short Fiction Award and several and the Booker Worthen Literary Prize and the Porter Fund Literary Prize.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29749212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29749212", "title": "Khazar University Department of Political Science and International Relations", "text": "Khazar University Department of Political Science and International Relations\n\nDepartment of Political Science and International Relations has been offering undergraduate and graduate programs since 1995.\n\nThe undergraduate program offers a broad range of courses in political theory, and area studies leading to the Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science and in Area Studies.Graduate programs leading to the Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees are offered at the Department and focus in several areas: Conflict Studies, Political Theory, and Area Studies, including European Public Affairs, Middle Eastern Studies, East Asian Studies, and Caucasus Studies.The faculty is composed of primarily representatives of the youngergeneration of Western-educated specialists in Political Science with research and professional experience in Western Europe, North America,and other advanced industrialized countries. Jointly with the Institute of Politics the Department conducts a number of scholarly events annually, including annual moot courts on political philosophy, crisis simulation exercises, executive education workshops, and conferences.\n\nInstitute of Politics The Institute of Politics at Khazar University is an independent, nonpartisan institution committed to public policy research, analysis andeducation.The Institute (formerly the Center for International and Strategic Studies) has a primary objective of contributing to improving the performance of public institutions in Azerbaijan and the quality of public policy through cultivating regular interaction between policymakers and scholars to analyze current issues, and offering practical approaches for dealing with those issues. The Institute holds regular conferences, seminars, workshops and panel discussions with various public officials, diplomats and scholars as well as various student-oriented workshops, such as annual crisis simulation exercises and annual moot courts. It has offered a wide range of programs and resources including speakers, visiting and resident fellows, study groups, conferences, and internships. Below are some examples of the Institute’s activities:\n\n2005 and was a convention of around 60 scholars, practitioners and students of public policy, government executives and civil society leaders, devoted to expert discussion of trends and opportunities pertaining to major public issues in Azerbaijan. The core outcomes of the conference were concrete policy recommendations to various institutions and agencies in Azerbaijan, involved in public policy making. The program consisted of several panels and roundtables on political development, economic development, foreign policy and public diplomacy, identity and nationalism. During specialized workshops concrete policy recommendations were developed by specialists and shared with the larger audience.272\nPolicy Analysis: How to Tackle Policy Problems in Azerbaijan. This unique workshop was conducted under the auspices of the Eurasia Foundation/ Azerbaijan and the Embassy of the United States of America in Azerbaijan to equip government and public sector executives and analysts as well as faculty and students of public policy with essential tools to handle problem identification, policy formulation and decision-making issues confidently and effectively. 25 government executives and policy analysts, NGO managers, junior faculty and advanced students from Azerbaijan and Georgia participated in this workshop led by Dr. Beryl Radin, Professor of Government and Public Administration at the American University in Washington, DC. Participants applied various methods in policy analysis through analyzing case studies and developing their own policy analysis project.\n\n\nHamlet Isakhanli. In Search of \"Khazar\". Khazar University Press, Baku, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1361082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1361082", "title": "Language death", "text": "Language death\n\nIn linguistics, language death occurs when a language loses its last native speaker. By extension, language extinction is when the language is no longer known, including by second-language speakers. Other similar terms include linguicide, the death of a language from natural or political causes, and rarely glottophagy, the absorption or replacement of a minor language by a major language.\n\nLanguage death is a process in which the level of a speech community's linguistic competence in their language variety decreases, eventually resulting in no native or fluent speakers of the variety. Language death can affect any language form, including dialects. Language death should not be confused with language attrition (also called language loss), which describes the loss of proficiency in a first language of an individual.\n\nIn the modern period (c. 1500 CE–present; following the rise of colonialism), language death has typically resulted from the process of cultural assimilation leading to language shift and the gradual abandonment of a native language in favour of a foreign \"lingua franca\", largely those of European countries.\n\nAs of the 2000s, a total of roughly 7,000 natively spoken languages existed worldwide. Most of these are minor languages in danger of extinction; one estimate published in 2004 expected that some 90% of the currently spoken languages will have become extinct by 2050.\n\nLanguage death is typically the final outcome of language shift and may manifest itself in one of the following ways:\n\nThe most common process leading to language death is one in which a community of speakers of one language becomes bilingual with another language, and gradually shifts allegiance to the second language until they cease to use their original, heritage language. This is a process of assimilation which may be voluntary or may be forced upon a population. Speakers of some languages, particularly regional or minority languages, may decide to abandon them based on economic or utilitarian grounds, in favor of languages regarded as having greater utility or prestige.\n\nLanguages with a small, geographically isolated population of speakers can die when their speakers are wiped out by genocide, disease, or natural disaster.\n\nA language is often declared to be dead even before the last native speaker of the language has died. If there are only a few elderly speakers of a language remaining, and they no longer use that language for communication, then the language is effectively dead. A language that has reached such a reduced stage of use is generally considered moribund. Half of the spoken languages of the world are not being taught to new generations of children. Once a language is no longer a native language—that is, if no children are being socialized into it as their primary language—the process of transmission is ended and the language itself will not survive past the current generations.\n\nLanguage death is rarely a sudden event, but a slow process of each generation learning less and less of the language, until its use is relegated to the domain of traditional use, such as in poetry and song. Typically the transmission of the language from adults to children becomes more and more restricted, to the final setting that adults speaking the language will raise children who never acquire fluency. One example of this process reaching its conclusion is that of the Dalmatian language.\n\nDuring language loss—sometimes referred to as \"obsolescence\" in the linguistic literature—the language that is being lost generally undergoes changes as speakers make their language more similar to the language that they are shifting to. This process of change has been described by Appel (1983) in two categories, though they are not mutually exclusive. Often speakers replace elements of their own language with something from the language they are shifting toward. Also, if their heritage language has an element that the new language does not, speakers may drop it.\n\nLanguage revitalization is an attempt to slow or reverse language death. Revitalization programs are ongoing in many languages, and have had varying degrees of success.\n\nThe revival of the Hebrew language in Israel is the only example of a language's acquiring new first language speakers after it became extinct in everyday use for an extended period, being used only as a liturgical language. Even in the case of Hebrew, there is a theory that argues that \"the Hebrew revivalists who wished to speak pure Hebrew failed. The result is a fascinating and multifaceted Israeli language, which is not only multi-layered but also multi-sourced. The revival of a clinically dead language is unlikely without cross-fertilization from the revivalists' mother tongue(s).\"\n\nOther cases of language revitalization which have seen some degree of success are Irish, Welsh, Hawaiian, Cherokee and Navajo. \n\nAs a response to English linguistic dominance, de-anglicisation became a matter of national pride in some places and especially in regions that were once under colonial rule, where vestiges of colonial domination are a sensitive subject. Following centuries of English rule in Ireland and English imposition of the English language, an argument for de-anglicization was delivered before the Irish National Literary Society in Dublin, 25 November 1892; \"When we speak of 'The Necessity for De-Anglicising the Irish Nation', we mean it, not as a protest against imitating what is best in the English people, for that would be absurd, but rather to show the folly of neglecting what is Irish, and hastening to adopt, pell-mell, and indiscriminately, everything that is English, simply because it is English.\" Language was one of the features of Anglicisation in Ireland: although it never died out and became an official language after independence, Irish had lost its status as the island's principal vernacular to become a minority language during the period of English rule; similarly, in North America indigenous languages have been replaced by those of the colonists.\n\nAccording to Ghil'ad Zuckermann, \"language reclamation will become increasingly relevant as people seek to recover their cultural autonomy, empower their spiritual and intellectual sovereignty, and improve wellbeing. There are various ethical, aesthetic and utilitarian benefits of language revival—for example, historical justice, diversity and employability, respectively.\"\n\nGoogle launched the Endangered Languages Project aimed at helping preserve languages that are at risk of extinction. Its goal is to compile up-to-date information about endangered languages and share the latest research about them.\n\nAnthropologist Akira Yamamoto has identified nine factors that he believes will help prevent language death:\n\nLinguists distinguish between language \"death\" and the process where a language becomes a \"dead language\" through normal language change, a linguistic phenomenon analogous to pseudoextinction. This happens when a language in the course of its normal development gradually morphs into something that is then recognized as a separate, different language, leaving the old form with no native speakers. Thus, for example, Old English may be regarded as a \"dead language\" although it changed and developed into Middle English, Early Modern English and Modern English. Dialects of a language can also die, contributing to the overall language death. For example, the Ainu language is slowly dying - \"The UNESCO Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger lists Hokkaido Ainu as critically endangered with 15 speakers ... and both Sakhalin and Kuril Ainu as extinct.\"\n\nThe process of language change may also involve the splitting up of a language into a family of several daughter languages, leaving the common parent language \"dead\". This has happened to Latin, which (through Vulgar Latin) eventually developed into the Romance languages, and to Prakrit, which developed into the New Indo-Aryan languages. Such a process is normally not described as \"language death\", because it involves an unbroken chain of normal transmission of the language from one generation to the next, with only minute changes at every single point in the chain. Thus with regard to Latin, for example, there is no point at which Latin \"died\"; it evolved in different ways in different geographic areas, and its modern forms are now identified by a plethora of different names such as French, Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, Romanian, Catalan, Galician, Venetian, etc.\n\nExcept in case of linguicide, languages do not suddenly become extinct; they become moribund as the community of speakers gradually shifts to using other languages. As speakers shift, there are discernible, if subtle, changes in language behavior. These changes in behavior lead to a change of linguistic vitality in the community. There are a variety of systems that have been proposed for measuring the vitality of a language in a community. One of the earliest is GIDS (Graded Intergenerational Disruption Scale) proposed by Joshua Fishman in 1991. A noteworthy publishing milestone in measuring language vitality is an entire issue of \"Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development\" devoted to the study of ethnolinguistic vitality, Vol. 32.2, 2011, with several authors presenting their own tools for measuring language vitality. A number of other published works on measuring language vitality have been published, prepared by authors with varying situations and applications in mind. These include works by Arienne Dwyer, Martin Ehala, M. Lynne Landweer, Mark Karan, András Kornai, and Paul Lewis and Gary Simons.\n\n"}
{"id": "13915584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13915584", "title": "Learning Assistant Model", "text": "Learning Assistant Model\n\nThe Learning assistant model is a model for improving the recruitment and education of STEM teachers. It was established in 2003 at the University of Colorado Boulder to achieve three related goals: (1) to recruit and improve the preparation of future mathematics and science teachers, (2) to improve the education of all students enrolled in our mathematics and science courses, and (3) to engage science faculty more thoroughly in the preparation of future teachers.\n\nThe LA model was initiated as a part of the STEM Colorado project headed by Richard McCray. The impetus behind the LA model was data that most students under perform in science, technology, engineering and mathematical (STEM) subjects [1,2], that many of our teachers having neither a major nor minor in their field [3], and that large research universities are not producing adequate numbers of mathematics and science teachers [4].\n\nThe Learning Assistant model is based on the premise that teacher preparation begins with training in a specific STEM discipline. It then encourages students to consider a career in education through a modest stipend,first hand teaching experiences, and a specially designed education seminar course. Typically, LAs facilitate small group interactions in large-enrollment courses, and at the same time, they make up the pool from which we recruit new K-12 teachers.\n\nThe required Mathematics and Science Education Seminar aims to help LAs integrate content, pedagogy, and practice, and is taught by a faculty member from the School of Education and a K12 teacher. In this course students investigate relevant educational literature, and engage in in-depth discussions about their own teaching and learning. Seminar readings and discussions include topics such as discussion techniques, learning theory, cooperative learning, student epistemologies, metacognition and argumentation, self-explanations and tutoring, multiple intelligences and differentiated instruction, the nature of science and mathematics, national standards, teaching with technology, and qualities of an effective teacher.\n\nBecause the point of the LA model is to enhance the recruitment of well-trained students in the teaching profession, a student can continue as an LA only if s/he shows commitment to finding out more about teaching. The outcomes of the LA project at UC Boulder are currently being evaluated through research on improvements in discipline-specific and pedagogical content knowledge and the number of new teachers recruited and retained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42787412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42787412", "title": "Leslie Kanes Weisman", "text": "Leslie Kanes Weisman\n\nLeslie Kanes Weisman is an architectural educator, activist and community planning department official. She was one of the founding faculty members of the New Jersey Institute of Technology School of Architecture in Newark, New Jersey. She was also one of the founders of the Women's School of Planning and Architecture. She was involved with \"Heresies\" #11, \"Making Room - Women and Architecture\". She has been instrumental in creating and promoting universal design applications for design practice and pedagogical models for design teaching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42081250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42081250", "title": "List of archives in Barbados", "text": "List of archives in Barbados\n\nThis is list of archives in Barbados.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52484639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52484639", "title": "List of archives in South Sudan", "text": "List of archives in South Sudan\n\nThis is list of archives in South Sudan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40177084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40177084", "title": "List of archives in the United Kingdom", "text": "List of archives in the United Kingdom\n\nThis is a list of archives in the United Kingdom. there were 122 national, 654 local, 328 university, 1,224 special and 61 business archives.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24317444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24317444", "title": "Lyndon Wainwright", "text": "Lyndon Wainwright\n\nLyndon Bentley Wainwright (7 December 1919 – 2 January 2018) was a British metrologist, ballroom dancer and author. He worked at the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) during World War II, and was a Chairman of the British Engineering Metrology Association. \n\nAfter the war, he was a leading exhibition dancer, and one of a small group of experts who introduced Latin American dance to Britain. Wainwright wrote nine books on ballroom dancing. He received the Carl Alan Award for 1996-99, and other honours from the dance community. He was an expert on phonogram performance rights and was a member of the British Ring of the International Brotherhood of Magicians. \n\nBorn in Scarborough, Yorkshire in 1919, Wainwright married three times: to Felicia Heslop (m. 1943-60; divorced); Isobel Scott (m. 1964–69; divorced), and Yvonne Gandy (m. 1973-2011; her death). \n\nHe had one son, Mark, from his second marriage and four grandchildren, Annabel, Connor, Ewan, and Brodie. He died in January 2018 at the age of 98.\n\nAfter his education and upbringing in Scarborough, Wainwright joined the NPL, the largest applied physics laboratory in the UK, in 1939. There he trained and worked as an engineering metrologist. From September 1939, this facility worked mainly in support of the war effort, and so employment there was to some extent a reserved occupation: key employees were not called up for military service if the employer made appropriate application to the War Office. In addition to their work, staff members were expected to join the NPL Fire Brigade as part-timers or the ARP (air-raid warning and fire watch).\n\nLater in life, when his active career as a dancer was over, Lyndon returned to metrology, working at the National Engineering Laboratory in East Kilbride, Scotland for four years, and then for seven years was Head of Quality Control and Metrology at PIRA, the Research Association for the Printing, Packaging and Paper Making Industries (formerly PATRA, the Printing Industry Research Association) in Leatherhead, Surrey. In this capacity he lectured in the UK and abroad, and sat on committees of the International Association of Research Organizations in the Printing Industries. Wainwright was Chairman of the English Metrology Association from 1967-72.\n\nWainwright met his first wife, Felicia (14 April 1920 – September 1993), in 1940, and they soon started to train as a ballroom dance couple. They married in 1943, the year they first gave a dance exhibition for payment. After taking coaching from Monsieur Pierre, they started to compete as a professional couple. In 1948 they won the Premier Prix in a World's Professional Eight Dance Ballroom championship, staged in Paris. \n\nThe couple then specialised in the Latin dances and helped to introduce these dance forms to the British public. The partnership was billed as \"Lyndon & Felicia\" for their dance exhibitions, which were given in clubs, ballrooms, restaurants, celebrations and on television. On BBC tv, they appeared with the Edmundo Ros Orchestra, and Victor Silvester's \"BBC Dancing Club\", dancing rumba, samba, paso doble and mambo. Between 1950 and 1960, the pair were probably the leading exhibition dancers of Latin American style in England. At their peak, they were presenting over 400 shows a year, often several times at different venues on a Sunday, and they also ran dance studios in Kingston, Ewell and Purley in Greater London. They were engaged to perform every alternate Dancers' Night for a year at the Hammersmith Palais.\n\nMany years later, the BBC invited Lyndon to take part in a television documentary \"Last Man at the Palais\" dealing with the history of the Hammersmith Palais. The Palais had opened in 1919 as a dance hall and entertainment venue, and finally closed in 2007. With a fellow professional, Lyndon danced a waltz, which was the last dance shown on the televised program, first screened on BBC Four on Christmas Eve 2007.\n\nAfter his dance partnership and marriage ended in 1960, Wainwright devoted himself to teaching, writing and the administrative side of the dance world. He was Executive Councillor, Hon. Treasurer, and Company Secretary of the International Dance Teachers Association (IDTA). He served as a delegate to the British Dance Council and as founder and Hon Secretary of its Teachers' Committee, and on the \"Council for Dance Education and Training\", and the Central Council of Physical Recreation. He was an acknowledged expert in the Performing and Phonographic Rights involved in playing music in public. For over 50 years he contributed articles to dance magazines such as \"Dance Teacher\" (now \"Dance International\"), \"Ballroom Dancing Times\" (now \"Dance Today\"), and Dance Expression. Wainwright also wrote articles for the Daily Mirror.\nThe dance profession has honoured Lyndon for his services to dance. In 1996 and 1999 he received the Carl Alan Award, in 1998 the \"Classique de Danse\", in 2000 the \"President's Award\" of the Ballroom Dancers' Federation, and in 2005 the \"Distinguished Service Award\" of the IDTA.\n\nWainwright is or has been a member of these dance organisations:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11981728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11981728", "title": "Magda Gerber", "text": "Magda Gerber\n\nMagda Gerber (died April 27, 2007) was an early childhood educator in the United States and is known for teaching parents and caregivers how to understand babies and interact with them respectfully from birth.\nThe seeds for her passion for infant care come from pediatrician Emmi Pikler. Pikler's innovative theories on infant care were successfully tested during the course of her tenure as medical director of Loczy, a state-run orphanage in Budapest. Gerber incorporated many of Pikler's theories into her own philosophy, which she called Educaring®. The term \"Educarer®\", which she also coined, refers to either a parent or other caregiver, and emphasizes the bidirectional influence of caring and educating.\n\nGerber was born in Budapest, Hungary. She received a degree in linguistics at the Sorbonne in Paris. She and her husband Imre Gerber had three children.\nMagda met Pikler in her role as a pediatrician for the local families of Budapest. When her daughter was sick, and their regular pediatrician was away, Gerber called the mother of her daughter's school friend, who was a doctor. Pikler examined her daughter, and Gerber was so impressed by how respectfully Pikler spoke to her daughter, and the cooperation that she elicited, that she asked Pikler to become the family's regular pediatrician.\n\nInspired by Pikler, Gerber earned a Master's degree in early childhood education in Budapest and in 1945 she began working with Pikler at the National Methodological Institute for Infant Care and Education in Budapest, commonly called Lóczy after the street on which it was located. Pikler became Gerber's mentor and friend.\n\nShortly after the end of WWII, the Communist Party takeover threw Hungary into political turmoil. Gerber's husband and teenage daughter were jailed as political prisoners. After the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, the family left Hungary to seek sanctuary in Austria. Gerber worked as an interpreter at the American Embassy in Vienna until 1957 when the family emigrated to the United States.\n\nThey were placed at Camp Kilmer, a military base in New Jersey, before moving to Boston for a year where Gerber again worked as an interpreter at Harvard University. The family then settled in Los Angeles where Gerber worked as a therapist at Children's Hospital with children who had cerebral palsy. Gerber then spent seven years working with autistic children at the Dubnoff School, in North Hollywood, California. According to her book, \"Your Self-confident Baby\", Gerber was able to develop relationships with extremely disturbed children that nobody else had been able to reach. She claimed that her magic was closely observing the children and expecting only what they could do. \"When a child is expected to do something he cannot, he is set up for failure.\"\n\nIn 1968, she developed and directed the Pilot Infant Program at the Dubnoff School.\n\nIn 1972, Gerber was invited by Thomas Forrest, pediatric neurologist and clinical assistant professor of pediatrics at Stanford University, to advise him on the program he was starting for the Children's Health Council (CHC) in Palo Alto, California. Gerber co-directed the Demonstration Infant Program (DIP) with Forrest for four years. The DIP was a program of preventative mental health based on modeling selective intervention with a group of infants and toddlers to their parents or carers. The program encouraged children to learn problem solving skills through play and foster self-confidence. Gerber described the purpose of the program \"If you can help parents to perceive and accept the child at his own developmental level, and to learn how to understand and respond to his needs, you can prevent problems before they develop, rather than have the difficult job of undoing them later in life.\"\n\nIn 1973 she began teaching parent/infant guidance classes in Los Angeles.\n\nIn 1978, Gerber and Forrest co-founded the non-profit organisation Resources for Infant Educarers® (RIE®) in Los Angeles to further their work with families and child care professionals. At RIE (pronounced 'rye'), Gerber taught parents to observe their babies as they played, while a facilitator modelled how and when to intervene.\n\nGerber taught parents to think about guiding children's behaviour through the lens of a stoplight. When a child can handle the situation, the light is green and the adult does not need to intervene. If the child's behaviour will put themselves or another person in danger, or is socially inappropriate, (a red light situation) then the adult will intervene to prevent anyone from getting hurt or to explain why something is not okay. This is done in a calm, non-judgmental way. It might also include physically blocking the child from causing harm. When there is a situation where the child may not be able to manage on their own, the adult can respond to this as an amber light situation. The adult would come close to observe the situation, and be ready to act.\n\nGerber taught early childhood development classes at the University of California, Los Angeles; California State University, Northridge and Pacific Oaks College, Pasadena. She taught professional training classes and RIE parent/infant guidance classes at the RIE centre in Los Angeles.\n\nRIE's mission is to improve the lives of infants and young children through respectful care. Gerber believed that babies are whole, competent beings from birth and should be treated as such. Gerber states in her book \"Dear Parent: Caring for infants with respect\" that, \"We not only respect babies, we demonstrate our respect every time we interact with them. Respecting a child means treating even the youngest infant as a unique human being, not as an object.\"\n\nThe basic principles of the RIE approach are:.\n\nRIE continues to offer classes for parents and their infants and toddlers, as well as a certificate program for parents and professionals in the Educaring® Approach. The Approach has now found its way around the world, with certified RIE Associates™ teaching and practicing in Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, and Central America, uniting many cultures in their appreciation of the rights and integrity of infants and young children.\nGerber's work has been included in professional journals and videos, and her training tools are used to educate infant teachers and Early Head Start teachers in the US. Mooney states that Gerber \"did much to set the tone for quality infant care and parenting programs in the US and around the world\". \nGerber edited \"The RIE Manual for Parents and Professionals\" which was first published in 1978 and continues to be used and expanded in 2012 with more of her work. In 1997 she wrote \"Your Self-Confident Baby: How to Encourage Your Child's Natural Abilities from the Very Start\" with Allison Johnson, and in 1998 she wrote \"Dear Parent: Caring for Infants With Respect\" (with Joan Weaver) (Resources for Infant Educarers 1998, 2003).\n\nGonzalez-Mena, J., and Dianne Widmeyer Eyer, D. \"Infants, Toddlers, and Caregivers: A Curriculum of Respectful, Responsive Care and Education\". McGraw Hill, New York. 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "813075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=813075", "title": "Maid", "text": "Maid\n\nA maid, or housemaid or maidservant, is a female domestic worker. Although now usually found only in the most wealthy of households, in the Victorian era domestic service was the second largest category of employment in England and Wales, after agricultural work.\n\nMaids were once part of an elaborate hierarchy in great houses, where the retinue of servants stretched up to the housekeeper and butler, responsible for female and male employees respectively. The word \"maid\" itself is short for \"maiden\", meaning a girl or unmarried young woman or virgin. Domestic workers, particularly those low in the hierarchy, such as maids and footmen, were expected to remain unmarried while in service, and even highest-ranking workers such as butlers could be dismissed for marrying.\n\nIn Victorian England, all middle class families would have \"help\", but for most small households, this would be only one employee, the maid of all work, often known colloquially as \"the girl\".\n\nHistorically many maids suffered from Prepatellar bursitis, an inflammation of the Prepatellar bursa caused by long periods spent on the knees for purposes of scrubbing and fire-lighting, leading to the condition attracting the colloquial name of \"Housemaid's Knee\".\n\nIn the contemporary Western world, comparatively few households can afford live-in domestic help, usually relying on cleaners, employed directly or through an agency (Maid service). Today a single maid may be the only domestic worker that upper-middle class households employ, as was historically the case. \n\nIn less developed nations, various factors ensure a labour source for domestic work: very large differences in the income of urban and rural households, widespread poverty, fewer educated women, and limited opportunities for the employment of less educated women.\n\nMaids perform typical domestic chores such as laundry, ironing, cleaning the house, grocery shopping, cooking, and caring for household pets. They may also take care of children, although there are more specific occupations for this, such as nanny. In some poor countries, maids take care of the elderly and people with disabilities. Many maids are required by their employers to wear a uniform.\n\nLegislation in many countries makes certain living conditions, working hours, or minimum wage a requirement of domestic service. Nonetheless, the work of a maid has always been hard, involving a full day, and extensive duties. \n\nMaids traditionally have a fixed position in the hierarchy of the large households, and although there is overlap between definitions (dependent on the size of the household) the positions themselves would typically be rigidly adhered to. The usual classifications of maid in a large household are:\n\n\nIn more modest households a single maid-of-all-work or skivvy was often the only staff. It is possible this word originates from the Italian for slave (\"schiavo\"—\"owned person\").\n\nOne of the most in-depth and enduring representations of the lives of several types of maid was seen in the 1970s television drama \"Upstairs, Downstairs\", set in England between 1903 and 1936. Another representation of the lives of maids is seen nowadays in \"Downton Abbey\", set in England between 1912 and 1926.\n\nForeign women are employed in Middle East and African countries (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and others) in large numbers to work as maids and domestic servants and are often vulnerable to sexual abuse, violence and poor living conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45560846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45560846", "title": "Metropolitan Police Academy (Tokyo)", "text": "Metropolitan Police Academy (Tokyo)\n\nThe is the official facility for training members of the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department.\n\nA new 14-story facility was completed in Fuchu City in August 2002. It features an indoor swimming pool, and modern dormitories where students are required to reside.\n\nThe academy hosted an open house event for the first time in March 2015, offering private seminars, fingerprint collecting and other activities in the hopes of combating the recent decline of applications.\n\nUpon acceptance recruits are enrolled in a training course involving \"physical strength, vitality and character building.\" After completing this training recruits move on to the main curriculum. Graduates of high school, junior colleges, or universities are all welcome to apply; however, university graduates are given a training course of only six months while high school students and junior college students are trained for ten months.\n\nThe curriculum includes both general education subjects such as ethics and courses geared for police work such as laws, martial arts (like kendo and judo), and shooting firearms.\n\nSpecialized courses offered at the academy include:\n\n\nThere are also courses available for study overseas or other non-academy locations, such as:\n\n\n\"The trainees...lead an orderly life at this institute by precisely following daily routines.\" There are, however, \nvarious club activities offered in their down time.\n"}
{"id": "54993815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54993815", "title": "Nadine Bommer", "text": "Nadine Bommer\n\nNadine Bommer (born 1968 in New York City, New York) is an American-Israeli contemporary dance choreographer, teacher, and artistic director. She is the founder and artistic director of the internationally renowned Nadine Bommer Dance Company.\n\nThough born in New York City, Nadine Bommer spent most of her childhood in Rishon LeZion, Israel. The drive to create dance productions has been ever-present in her life, and Bommer began creating when she was still just a child. Following her amateur productions for family, friends, and neighbors, Bommer was invited to head the student production at her school when she was only 11 years old, and then again in junior high and high school. She received a scholarship from the mayor for her impressive work as a child choreographer/director, and was invited to teach dance to a local group of students following the show produced in her junior year of high school. Intermittently throughout her childhood, Bommer traveled to NYC with her mother, studying dance at the American Ballet Theatre School and Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater School while there. As a young adult, Bommer focused on teaching dance. At the age of 21, she opened the first in a series of successful dance studios in Israel. With her established school and developing choreography, Bommer began to codify the technique and artistic philosophy that now sustains her career and choreographic work.\n\nBommer began her career as an educator, opening her first dance studio, Ketzev Hagoof, in 1990. Ketzev Hagoof still teaches dance to children throughout Israel, offering classes at their original location and multiple branches throughout the country. In 1994, Bommer shifted her focus, opening another school called the Nadine Bommer Dance Academy. This school of contemporary dance focuses on preparing students for professional careers in dance and classes are based in Bommer's technique the Nadine Bommer Method (see technique section). Nadine Bommer Dance Academy is currently the flagship location offering this technique to aspiring professional dancers.\n\nIn 1997 Bommer established her dance company, beginning performances of work inspired by the early stages of her method. As she continued to make work, Bommer codified her technique, working through stages focused on classical technique (Nevet), improvisation (Kinetica), and characterization (Animato). The final stage of the method, Animato, was completed in 2006, leading to a new phase of the company centered in comedic narrative dance works. In 2007, Bommer began receiving sustained support from the Israeli Ministry of Science, Culture & Sports. This year also marked the premiere of her landmark work \"Manimation\" which received great acclaim as Bommer's first work fully utilizing the Nadine Bommer Method.\n\nFollowing \"Manimation\", Bommer choreographed three new full-length works in quick succession, \"American Cinema\", \"Invisi'BALL\", and \"Poodle It\". Her humorous depiction of a soccer championship in \"Invisi'BALL\" rose to international acclaim, leading the company to tours all over the world. In tandem with this success, Bommer's teenage daughter Gaya Bommer-Yemini received prominence in the award-winning documentary \"First Position\". The film featured Bommer's choreography as her daughter won many prizes while performing it around the world.\n\nIn 2015 Bommer was invited to present work in New York City after an anonymous donor sponsored her relocation. At this time the company took on a cross-continental structure, working with dancers based in both NYC and Israel. In NYC, Bommer began working with a new group of dancers, teaching them the Nadine Bommer Method and mounting her international sensation \"Invisi'BALL\" for its the NYC premiere.\n\nAfter only a few months with this new company structure, Bommer began creating her newest work \"SEPIA\". The piece departs from Bommer's signature comedic tone, for a more dramatic work centered around powerfully evolving sea creature characters. \"SEPIA\" premiered at the Suzanne Dellal Center for Dance and Theater in 2016, and has since been presented in an immersive adaptation in NYC. In addition to this work, the company continues to tour internationally, with repertory out of NYC and Israel, most recently visiting South Korea, Russia, and Poland. In the US, Bommer has shared her work at Jacob's Pillow on Broadway at The New Victory Theater, and at Battery Dance Festival. Currently the company is a residency artist at Lehman College through the CUNY Dance Initiative, and Bommer continues to spread her contemporary dance technique throughout the world with her choreography, cross continental company, and educational programming in both NYC and Israel.\n\nBommer's work as a choreographer and educator centers around her technique The Nadine Bommer Method. This improvisational method is inspired by the endless motion of the sea and split into two core principles: The Body (\"Kinetica\") and The Character (\"Animato\"). Kinetica gives dancers a step-by-step process to create a uniquely personal movement language. It cultivates full control of fluid, malleable, and expansive movement using kinetic energy and internal listening. In Bommer’s character work (Animato) this liquidity is used to develop a new, but equally expressive, physicality dependant upon the dancer’s belief in their transformation to a new being. Characterization in her choreographic work has ranged from soccer players to marionettes to inanimate objects like a lamp and more.\n\nA third branch of the technique, \"Nevet\", brings this method to classical technique, focusing an inward attention to the structure of ballet. \"Nevet\" was the initial iteration of the method codified in 1994, and is still used as an anchoring entry point in the process of pairing the imagination and internal listening with the body. The full method is taught in Bommer's school, Nadine Bommer Dance Academy, as well as 15 dance schools across Israel including Kibbutzim College of Education Dance Theatre. The company also offers a training program for professional dancers in both NYC and Israel.\n\n\"Manimation\" (2007) - Manimation presents a cartoon depiction of comedic situations in a coffee shop. With music by Meredith Monk, the stage transforms into a colorful, Cartoon-like world, where a new experience of dance is created.\n\n\"American Cinema\" (2009) - American Cinema is a theatrical dance comedy exploring the nuances of cinematic experience through diverse characters in two parts. In part one marionettes react to a film through their operator's point of view. Later, in part two, people translate the puppets' responses into human reactions, offering a second depiction of the emotions brought out in the movie going experience.\n\n\"Invisi'BALL\" (2010) - Invisi’BALL transforms a cast of female dancers into two teams of ultra-competitive male soccer players. With popular chants and roaring crowds, this unique theater-dance piece illustrates a surprising, hilarious, and multi-cultural mash-up of the game from the moment the audience arrives at the theater. \n\"Poodle It\" (2013) - The glory days of a barber shop come back to life in the memories of a Poodles Barber who has fallen from grace. On stage a mix of animal, inanimate and human characters, to tell his story in an innovative, humorous and fascinating dance theater work.\n\n\"SEPIA\" (2016) - Sepia is a 60-minute contemporary dance work depicting imaginatively evolved creatures who merge the past, present, and future with their powerful presence. Journeying through a world of their own creation, these creatures display a feminine strength, ability to change, and inherent danger through the signature Nadine Bommer movement language.\n\nOther works: \"Shorties\", \"Field Trip\"\n\n2011: \"Cartoon Girl\" - 1st prize, contemporary performance, Youth America Grand Prix\n\n2010: \"American Cinema\" – 1st prize, Florence Dance Festival of Tuscany, Italy\n\n2010: \"Manimation\" - 1st prize, ' The Audience's Choice' at \"no ballet\" competition, Ludwigshafen, Germany\n\n2010: \"Wild Horses\" - 3rd prize, modern performance, Youth America Grand Prix\n\n2007: \"Bus Stop\" and \"Gospel\" - 1st prize, Florence Dance Festival of Tuscany, Italy\n\n2000-2004: 1st prize, Florence Dance Festival of Tuscany, Italy\n\n1996-1999: 1st and 2nd prize, choreography and performance, Freiburg Festival, Germany\n\nBommer lives with her husband Ziv Yemini and their two sons. Their daughter Gaya Bommer-Yemini is a professional dancer, Youth America Grand Prix winner, and featured artist in Bess Kargman's award-winning documentary \"First Position\".\n\n"}
{"id": "554947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554947", "title": "National Qualifications Authority of Ireland", "text": "National Qualifications Authority of Ireland\n\nThe National Qualifications Authority of Ireland or NQAI (\"Údarás Náisiúnta Cáilíochtaí na hÉireann\" in Irish) was set up in 2001 under the Qualifications (Education & Training) Act, 1999 to develop and promote the implementation of a National Framework of Qualifications across education and training in Ireland. NQAI was dissolved and its functions were passed to Quality and Qualifications Ireland (QQI) on 6 November 2012.\n\nThe Authority’s principal tasks were as follows:\n\nAs one of its main functions, the NQAI established the National Framework of Qualifications (NFQ). The NFQ is a ten-stage system incorporating educational and training awards from certificate to doctoral level. Awards no longer made are included in the framework for reference purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18994611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18994611", "title": "Norton University", "text": "Norton University\n\nNorton University (, NU) is a private university in Cambodia registered with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport. It was established in 1996. The University was one of the first private Cambodian educational institutions.\n\nIn 2006, Tom Chandler, a 3-D modeling specialist from Monash University in Melbourne was invited to Norton as a senior visiting fellow. The aim of the fellowship was to introduce architecture and science students to specialised animation and modeling techniques and allow them to learn to digitally render their own heritage using 3-D techniques.\n\nNorton university is considered to be the Best IT Education Center in Cambodia years after its establishment, and was chosen by National ICT Development Authority (NiDA), Ministry of Post-Telecommunications (MPTC), International Data Group (IDG) to receive the award, and that official honor in 2010. The university has two campus both based in Phnom Penh. The current Rector, and Vice Rector of Norton University are Professor Chan Sok Khieng and Professor Un Van Thouen, respectively.\n\nDegree\n\n\nDegree : \"Bachelor of Science in Computing Information (BSc)\".\n\nCourse Summary\n\nDegree : \"Bachelor Engineering (BEng)\"\nStructure and Components\n\n"}
{"id": "25166472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25166472", "title": "Norwegian Archaeological Society", "text": "Norwegian Archaeological Society\n\nThe Norwegian Archaeological Society () is a professional society for archaeologists.\n\nFormed in 1936, its first secretary-general was Anton Wilhelm Brøgger, who served until his death in 1951. The purpose of the society is to propagate results of Norwegian archaeological research. It releases the publication \"Viking\".\n\nThe current praeses is Christen Aass, and the secretary-general is Egil Mikkelsen. Their headquarters are located in the Viking Ship Museum.\n"}
{"id": "47550806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47550806", "title": "PARfessionals", "text": "PARfessionals\n\nPARfessionals is an Arkansas based, private research development firm for Peer Support and Recovery Providers in Addictions. \n\nThe company was founded in 2011 by Jorea M. Kelley-Hardison She self-published the book “Getting Ahead: An Ex-Offenders Guide to Getting Ahead in Today’s Society”, where she encourages ex-offenders to participate in clinical research trials. She is mentioned in Dr. Jon Marc Taylor’s book “Prisoners' Guerrilla Handbook to Correspondence Programs in the United States and Canada,” published by Prison Legal News in 2008.\n\nJorea Kelley-Hardison was taking classes to become a Clinical Research Coordinator (CRC) before she decided to transition into the addiction industry to become an Addictions Counselor in 2009. Around that time, she received her CCJP – a status from the Texas Certification Board of Addiction Professionals (TCBAP) and has been granted numerous credentials from the board, including the Peer Recovery Specialist (PRS), Peer Mentor/Peer Recovery Coach (PM-PRC) and the Associate Prevention Specialist (APS) credentials, but has since retired those credentials.\n\nJorea Kelley-Hardison earned a B.S. degree in Management in 2009 and has completed degree requirements in order to graduate with a M.A. in Criminal Justice from the American (Military) Public University System. She has also earned a graduate certificate in Applied Forensic Psychology Services from The Chicago School of Professional Psychology. In addition, she has obtained certificates in mental health, nonprofit management, applied forensic psychology services, basic clinic research, family and business mediation, substance abuse, as well as emergency management. In addition, she has received training throughout the years in various important topics such as rape/domestic violence crisis intervention, hospice, and health unit coordination from various organizations and colleges including Parkland Health & Hospital System, Brookhaven College, Lakewood College, Center for Degree Studies, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,Thomas Edison State College, University of Texas at Arlington-Continuing Education Division, and Richland College.\n\nShe is currently a member of the American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities, NAADAC- The Association of Addiction Professionals, National Alliance for Direct Support Professionals, National Association of Health Unit Coordinators, Psychiatric Rehabilitation Association and the International Association for Correctional and Forensic Psychology.\n\nIn 2011, the word \" PARfessionals\" was created by the company's founder. In 2012, PARfessionals decided to develop the first peer-based online recovery coach training program designed for those interested in mentoring individuals into and through long-term recovery from co-occurring disorders and other addictions and addictive behaviors.\n\nIn 2013, PARfessionals developed the first Peer Recovery/Addiction Recovery Coach Study Guide, a free Peer Recovery/Addiction Recovery Coach Curriculum Guide, a free Peer Recovery/Addiction Recovery Coach Practicum Guide and an online Peer Recovery/Addiction Recovery Coach Train the Trainers course. Additionally, PARfessionals' founder and several family members applied for an ACE college credit review with The American Council On Education and then to Distance Education Accreditation Council (DEAC) in August 2015. After being rejected by DEAC, the founder contacted Charter State Oak College who in November 2015 about their program being recognized for college credit under their college assessment program.\n\nPARfessionals designed a Peer Recovery Facilitator Development e-Course in an effort to support the ongoing efforts of social service agencies, foundations, government agencies, and employers worldwide. This course would also work towards the development of community re-entry programs for inmates and workforce development skills for disadvantaged individuals such as ex-offenders, disabled individuals, low-income communities and minorities.\n\nIt was developed in collaboration with post-secondary educators and coaching experts for a diverse population with an array of learning skills who may be teaching, employing or supporting those who may be inmates, ex-offenders, mental health consumers, recovering addicts and individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. It provides adult-oriented learning strategies for a diverse group of individuals with different learning abilities.\n\nThe online Peer Recovery Facilitator Development e-Course was officially approved in 2014, by the Association for Addiction Professionals, also known as NAADAC.\n\nIn 2014, PARfessionals developed the first free Peer Recovery Support Specialist/Addiction Recovery Coach classroom curriculum kits in addition to a home study course, a correctional correspondence course for inmates, research journal, universal Code of Ethics and an international certification board. Additionally, PARfessionals' founder created an in-house private virtual research institute, the Powell Leary Jacobs (PLJ) Multicultural Institute for Transformation Research in Addictions, to self-fund resources on Peer Recovery and Prevention. It was internally closed in 2014.\n\nFrom 2013-2014, PARfessionals and its parent organization, the SJM Family Foundation (which closed in January 2015 through the Texas Secretary of State) provided seven scholarships for eligible candidates from the general public who were devoted to seeking training for addiction treatment and peer recovery services.\n\nKelley-Hardison also established the International Certification Board of Recovery Professionals (ICBRP), the first ever, peer-run certification board created for peer recovery professionals in the world. The ICBRP's mission was to be an independent, informal ad-hoc advisory board that provides guidance and accountability for the National Certified Peer Recovery Professionals (NCPRP) credentialing program. However, it was later dissolved (through the Georgia Secretary of State in March 2015 ), and merged into PARfessionals' private corporate structure. \n\nIn Spring 2017, The PARfessionals' Cultural Intelligence in Addictions course supplemental student workbook was included in the German National Library.\n\n, PARfessionals is a private product design and consulting firm doing business as PARfessionals Behavorial Health Research Development Corporation. The founder, Jorea Kelley-Hardison is a nationally certified psychiatric technician and social impact artist that has successfully worked with dozens of licensed professional clinicians and medical staff worldwide, including professionals from Harvard Medical School and the National Institute of Health. to create 45+ PARfessionals' branded resources, including Peer Recovery Practicum Guide, a Peer Recovery Pre-Certification Review e-Course. a Peer Recovery Supervision Training Course, and Peer Recovery classroom curriculum kits. \n\nIn order to accomplish the company's goals, Kelley-Hardison, along with members of the AR SJM Family, hired and privately paid independent contractors and freelancers, also Ms. Hardison and several of her family members working as volunteers using their own money, and collaborating with a group of qualified contracted experts from across the world that had acquired degrees, held additional credentials and had significant work experience in their own respective fields.\n\nThe term peer recovery can be first defined through PARfessionals as “the process of giving and receiving encouragement and assistance to achieve long-term recovery. Peers offer emotional support, share knowledge, teaches skills, provide practical assistance, and connect people with resources, opportunities, communities of support, and other people”.\n\nThe Association for Addiction Professionals (NAADAC) provides a different definition of recovery. According to William White, MA, “recovery is the experience… through which individuals, families, and communities impacted by severe alcohol and other drug (AOD) problems utilize internal and external resources to voluntarily resolve these problems, heal the wounds inflicted by AOD related problems, actively manage their continued vulnerability to such problems, and develop a healthy, productive, and meaningful life”.\n\nThe International Certification & Reciprocity Consortium (IC&RC) states that “peer recovery is experiencing rapid growth, whether it is provided by a peer recovery coach, peer recovery support specialist, peer navigator, patient navigators, public health learning navigators, behavorial health navigator or peer recovery mentor. Peer support services - advocating, mentoring, educating, and navigating systems – are becoming an important component in recovery oriented systems of care”.\n\nIC&RC credentials and examinations, including Peer Recovery are administered exclusively by various certification and licensing boards in the United States and the world.\n\nThe Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) is the agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that leads public health efforts to advance the behavioral health of the nation. SAMHSA's mission is to reduce the impact of substance abuse and mental illness on America's communities.\n\nSAMHSA states that:\nIn 2012, PARfessionals developed the first globally recognized online training program for peer recovery professionals. , PARfessionals offers an online distance learning pre-certification training course, a home study correspondence course and an inmate correspondence course for student-candidates to study at their own pace for global certification in peer recovery. The curriculum is based on proven research in order to make it the most specialized and comprehensive training program for a new generation of Peer Recovery Professionals for a variety of settings. \n\nStudents worldwide have completed the training and shared their satisfaction with PARfessionals training program.\n\nPARfessionals developed its own exam and credential, NCPRP, which stands for “National Certified Peer Recovery Professional”.\n\nThe NCPRP credential and exam primarily emphasize the concept of peer recovery, with the main purpose of providing guidance, knowledge or assistance, especially among those with similar experiences who can meet as equals. The certification was integrated into the academic program and renamed the PARfessionals' Peer Recovery Workforce Development Certification Program.\n\nIn Fall 2016, PARfessionals' founder worked with qualified and licensed clinicians to create and sponsor the world's first college level peer recovery training course and lifetime credential for the behavioral healthcare workforce, which was submitted and reviewed through the Connecticut Credit Assessment Program and The Consortium for the Assessment of College Equivalence of Charter State College in Fall 2016. ..\n\nDeloitte provides an annual look at the topics, trends, and issues impacting the global health care sector. According to its 2017 Global Healthcare Sector Outlook Infographic, \"Peer support, self-management education, health coaching, and group activities, along with workforce training, and investments in the right technology\" are \" potential enablers of patient activation and engagement\" and \" key ingredients for productive health care operations\".\n\nIn February 2016, PARfessionals' founder, Ms. Kelley Hardison started to partner with several independent app developers to develop Behavioral Health educational apps and games for the Addiction Peer Workforce.\n\nIn the fall of 2016, the AR SJM Family distributed two college preparatory guides, PARfessionals’ Peer Recovery/Cultural Intelligence in Addictions and PARfessionals’ Peer Recovery Navigator Practicum Guide to 240,000+ digital libraries and 2,000 digital publishers across the world. In 2017, the successful worldwide distribution was commemorated with a plaque in a mobile library garden and pocket park in Centennial, Texas.\n\nPARfessionals is an approved behavioral health training provider recognized by many\nstates, national and international professional associations and state boards .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49410790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49410790", "title": "Philip H. Knight Chairs and Professorships", "text": "Philip H. Knight Chairs and Professorships\n\nPhilip H. Knight endowed chairs and professorships were established at the University of Oregon in 1996, when Penny and Phil Knight donated US$15 million for 27 endowed chairs and professorships, \"to provide academic areas with a source of funds for recruiting and retaining faculty of superior academic quality\". Chairs and professorships must be awarded on merit only, not longevity. Collectively, the Knight endowed chairs and professorships receive over US$325,000 in bonuses per year. The award for a Knight Chair is US$50,000, and US$25,000 for a Knight Professorship.\n\nPhil and Penny Knight donated an endowment fund of US$5 million to the Stanford University Graduate School of Business in 2006.\n\nIn 2009, the Knights donated US$5 million to Willamette University for a School of Law endowed chair named for Alex L. Parks, Penny Knight's father, who served on the faculty of the School of Law. \n\n"}
{"id": "4929570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4929570", "title": "Roger Cruz", "text": "Roger Cruz\n\nRoger Cruz (born Rogério da Cruz Kuroda on February 22, 1971, in São Paulo, Brazil) is a Brazilian comic book artist.\n\nCruz started his professional career as a letterer for Editora Abril, the Brazilian publishing house, for whom he lettered many Portuguese translations of American comics; then worked as a writer and art assistant for \"Mil Perigos\", a short-lived black and white comics magazine.\n\nWhen Art & Comics Studio first introduced Brazilian artists to the American comic book market, he was given the opportunity to work as an artist for Marvel Comics on the titles \"Ghost Rider\", \"Hulk\", \"Uncanny X-Men\", \"X-Men Alpha\", \"X-Patrol\", \"Generation X\", \"X-Calibre\", \"X-Factor\", \"X-Man\", \"Avengers: Timeslide\" and \"Silver Surfer\". He also worked for DC Comics, where he provided art for one issue of the comic book \"Batman Chronicles\".\n\nAt the end 1990s Cruz took a break from working on comic books and returned to Brazil, where he became one of the founders and partners of an art studio/school in Brazil called \"Fábrica de Quadrinhos\" (\"Comic Book Factory\"). Cruz also worked as a storyboard designer for advertising agencies, a character designer for TV shows, and an art teacher, and gave a two-year course of lectures and workshops in universities..\n\nStill being a \"Fábrica de Quadrinhos\" partner, he returned to work for the American market, contributing to Marvel titles such as \"Darkness\", \"Ascension\", \"X-Men\", \"Wolverine\", and \"\".\n\nIn 1999 Cruz gave up his projects in \"Fábrica de Quadrinhos\" and turned back to work exclusively with comics. In 2002, negotiated by Art & Comics Studio, he illustrated issues of \"Wonder Woman\". Since 2004, he has been working for Marvel once again, as the artist on \"Amazing Fantasy\" and \"\".\n\nCruz published more authoral works in Brazil, such as \"Xampu- Lovely Losers\".\n\nCruz was a regular on the (now defunct) Genesis Comics \"Swipe Of The Week\" website around 1999. The site placed two pieces of published work by two different artists side by side, and allowed the users to vote whether they were seeing an homage, a coincidence, or a direct copy. Primarily, Cruz's work was placed beside the previously printed work of Joe Madureira, but also Jim Lee. Cruz has acknowledged on his (now defunct) website that he learned to draw primarily by copying from other pencillers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40723965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40723965", "title": "Saint Stephen Vocational Secondary School of Economics", "text": "Saint Stephen Vocational Secondary School of Economics\n\nSaint Stephen Vocational Secondary School\n\nSaint Stephen Vocational Secondary School of Economics is one of technical schools in Budapest\n\nThe eponymous of the school is Stephen I, also Saint Stephen. The first King of Hungary from 1000 or 1001 until his death in 1038. He was born in Esztergom, his pagan name was Vajk. He possibly born in 975 but the date is uncertain. After his death he was canonized as St. Stephen in 1038.\n\nOne of the most imposing building in the IX district, situated between the Lenhossék and Thaly Kálmán street, under Mester street 56-58. The school building houses a dormitory for girls.\nThe main objectives of the school are\nThe school focuses on the education of Economics studies. It also offers opportunity to take ECDL exams and has a handball and a football team.\n\n• Dr. Sándor Csányi the Managing director of OTP\n\n• Dr László Utassy a Garancia Insurant President-Managing Director\n\n• PM under-secretary in the Antall- Government, presently the president of The Hungarian Competition Authority\n\n• Dr. Márta Nagy the senior vice president of The Hungarian Competition Authority\n\n• Sándor Korda[ (Sir Alexander Korda) (1893–1956) under the name Sándor László Kellner\n\n• Vilmos Sebők\n\n• Krisztián Lisztes\n\n• János Hrutka\n"}
{"id": "26883728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26883728", "title": "Shahrokh Shariat", "text": "Shahrokh Shariat\n\nShahrokh François Shariat is currently professor and chairman of the department of urology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna General Hospital, Vienna, Austria. He is also adjunct professor of urology and medical oncology at Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, NY and adjunct professor of urology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA. He is currently standing visiting professor at the Charles University of Prag. He has published more than 950 peer-reviewed research papers (h-index: 88), >350 non-peer-reviewed research papers, and 14 book chapters, is the holder of four patents stemming from his research into prostate and bladder cancer, and is the recipient of various national and international rewards. He is the recipient of the prestigious Matula award from the European Urological Association in 2014 and the prestigious Gold Cystoscope award from the American Urological Association in 2017.<br>\nHe is currently spearheading several collaborative multicenter groups (Bladder Cancer Research Consortium, The Bladder Cancer Detection Group, and The Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma Collaboration) and prospective clinical trials. He is a member of various academic societies and a journal, meeting abstract, and grant reviewer for numerous national and international organizations. He is an editorial board member of various journals including European Urology, BJU International, World Journal of Urology, Current Opinion in Urology, Immunotherapy, and Journal of Men's Health among others. His research focuses on urologic oncology - molecular mechanisms, markers, early detection, natural history, treatment, translational and outcomes research. Specially, Dr. Shariat has been working on the discovery, testing, and validation of molecular markers associated with the biological and clinical behavior of prostate and urothelial cancers. His laboratory research focuses on integrative genomics and epigenomics of urothelial carcinoma with the goal of designing personalized therapeutic strategies.\n\nDr. Shariat was born in Tehran, Iran grew up in Vienna, Austria, attending the Lycée Français de Vienne and the Medical University of Vienna. His education also brought him to Switzerland and Spain for extended periods of time, where he developed fluency in five languages: English, French, German, Spanish and Persian. After receiving his medical degree from the University of Vienna in 1998, Dr. Shariat continued his education with postdoctoral fellowships in \"Gene Therapy for Urologic Diseases\" and \"Urologic Oncology\" at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, before moving on to the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center for his internship and residency followed working as a fellow and faculty instructor at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He joined in 2010 the New York Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical Center in New York, NY.\n\nDr. Shahrokh Shariat specializes in treating urologic malignancies. He has published more than 920 research papers and is the holder of five patents stemming from his research into prostate cancer and bladder cancer. Dr. Shariat also reviews grant proposals for cancer research foundations and reviews paper submissions for many journals. He has been repeatedly recognized as one of the leading uro-oncologist worldwide winning many awards from diverse societies and patient self-help groups.\n\nDr. Shariat's research focuses on the following areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "3984077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3984077", "title": "Shiraz University of Medical Sciences", "text": "Shiraz University of Medical Sciences\n\nShiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS) () is a public medical school located in Shiraz, Iran. It is ranked as one of Iran's top medical schools, with more than 9000 students studying in over 200 different disciplines, and a faculty staff of nearly 900 and 25,000 personnel. as it is one of the best medical universities in Iran. Iranian students are recruited to SUMS through National Entrance Exam (Konkur) and registered to the main campus of the university. Shiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS), exhibiting nearly 70 years of Medical education experience, is the most popular University of Medical Sciences in southern Iran, and offers international degree and non-degree programs to international students at different levels and disciplines including Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), Doctor of Dental Medicine (D.M.D.), Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.), B.Sc., M.Sc.,Ph.D., Specialty, Subspecialty, and Fellowship.\nInternational applicants who are interested to apply to SUMS' International Programs may apply at http:// www.gsia.sums.ac.ir.\n\nWith 41 hospitals (including 14 teaching hospitals), SUMS is a regional health care provider and the main medical center in Fars Province.\n\nThe Foundation of Shiraz University of Medical Sciences(SUMS) dates back to about 70 years ago when Shiraz Institute of Higher Health Education admitted a few medical students (1945). The High Institute of Health developed into Medical Faculty in 1946. The medical school is located in central Shiraz, which was founded in 1946 as a college within Pahlavi University. In 1953, a Faculty of Nursing was added, followed by a Faculty of Dentistry in 1969. After the 1979 Islamic Revolution overthrew the Pahlavi dynasty, drastic changes were implemented at all universities. The name of Pahlavi University was immediately changed to Shiraz University. In 1986, the Iranian Ministry of Health, Treatment and Medical Education took over the departments and faculties in the medical sciences and SUMS became an independent institution.\n\nShiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS), founded in 1946, is one of the oldest medical universities nationwide. Shiraz University of Medical Sciences was first established as the \"Institute of Health for Higher Education\". This institute was turned into the Faculty of Medicine in 1949. \"Nemazee Higher Institute for Nursing\" and the School of Dentistry were founded in 1954 and 1970 respectively. Afterwards, other schools were shaped gradually.\nAll public higher educational schools in Shiraz (medical and non-medical) were initially under the auspices of Shiraz University – former \"Pahlavi University\". In 1986 education of medical sciences in Iran was taken over by the \"Ministry of Health, Treatment and Medical Education\" with the purpose of utilizing national medical resources more desirably in addition to promoting healthcare as well as medical teaching and research. Consequently, all medical faculties and centers continued their activities under the new affiliation; \"Shiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS)\". Non-medical programs, however, are still offered under the supervision of Shiraz University.\nShiraz University of Medical Sciences (SUMS) is not only responsible for training students in medical areas, but also manages all public hospitals, clinics and healthcare centers in Fars Province in southern Iran. The private sector of health system in Fars is also under the surveillance of SUMS. \nThe following feature SUMS:\n17 Schools\n63 Research centers\n41 Public Hospitals (including 14 teaching hospitals)\n6 Research Incubators\nOver 900 faculty members and more than 25000 personnel are working at SUMS in different areas including health, treatment, research and education. Currently, over 9000 students are studying in a variety of academic disciplines at SUMS schools and research centers. Iranian students are recruited to SUMS through National Entrance Exam (Konkur), whereas non-Iranian international applicants who would like to apply to SUMS are required to apply online after going through our A-Z program list. At SUMS, we have been capable of providing an intellectual environment to educate top students and send them out to practice their skills all over the world.\nSUMS displays a good deal of tradition as well as modernity, aiming at training students, utilizing high-quality education and research. Since its foundation, SUMS has been active as one of the largest and most reputable universities in Iran and the Middle East and an influential figure in the region, regarding the services it offers to the students as well as the patients. SUMS is particularly proud of being considered by the Iran Ministry of Health, Treatment and Medical Education as the main hub of four scientific areas as follows:\n- The hub of liver transplantation\n- The hub of clinical immunology \n- The hub of clinical Microbiology \n- The hub of advanced electronic learning\nSUMS is also one of the main centers for cochlear implant Iran. Not only does it host hundreds of patients from southern Iran, it is also a well-known pivot for health tourism in Iran attracting hundreds of patients from nearby countries each year. Some of specific medical services which attracts patients to Shiraz include:\n\n- Organ transplantation\n- Cochlear implantation\n- Cardiovascular angiography\n- Hepatic angiography\n- Cancer radiation-therapy and chemotherapy\n- Different types of Eye surgery\n- Different types of heart surgery\n- Different types of orthopedic surgery\n- Fetal Surgery\n- Treatment of infertility by means of IVF technology\n\nShiraz University of Medical Sciences mainly aims at training talents through scientific education, research, and expansion of medical and paramedical sciences in order to supply the specialist staff required in the country, setting research and educational facilities to recognize potentialities and enhance the scientific capacity in relation to health and treatment issues and expanding health and treatment facilities throughout the society through affiliated health and treatment organizations and centers. University Authorities have played a crucial role in achieving these goals. Based on the first term of administration regulations for the universities and higher education institutes, the authorities of the university are as follows:\n1. Board of Trustees\n2. University Council\n3. Board of Directors\n4. Board of Auditors\n5. University Specialized Councils\nThe following table represents university authorities and their responsibilities:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3749237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3749237", "title": "Sloan Fellows", "text": "Sloan Fellows\n\nThe Sloan Fellows program is the world's first mid-career master's degree in general management and leadership. It was initially supported by a grant from Alfred P. Sloan, the late CEO of General Motors, to his alma mater, MIT. The program was established in 1930 in MIT Sloan School of Management. later, it was expanded to other leading two business schools of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, and the London Business School (LBS). Considered to be the most prestigious management training program, it targets experienced managers who have demonstrated success either within organizations or independently as entrepreneurs.\n\nThe Sloan Fellows Program was created at the MIT Sloan School of Management in 1930, by Alfred P. Sloan, Chairman of General Motors from 1937 to 1956, who envisioned the Sloan Fellowship as a means of developing the \"ideal manager\". The Sloan Fellows Program is the world's first management and leadership education program for mid-career experienced managers.\n\nIn the following decades, the program was expanded to include the Sloan Master's at Stanford Graduate School of Business (1957) and the Sloan Master's at London Business School (1968 ). In 2013 Stanford changed the name of its Sloan Fellows Program to Stanford MSx (Master of Science in Management for Experienced Leaders), though participants in the program remain Stanford Sloan Fellows.\n\nSloan Fellows comprise a mix of company- and self-sponsored candidates. On all three schools, a significant degree of experience is required for admission. This is in keeping with Alfred P. Sloan's conviction that experienced managers would benefit best from the program. Alumni describe the program as \"transformational\", in keeping with the original vision of preparing successful managers for senior business leadership positions and increasingly, successful enterprise ventures.\n\nThe Sloan Fellows program runs full-time over the course of 12–14 months, depending on electives. London Business School and MIT Sloan offer an optional research project/thesis.\n\nThe program recognizes the importance of developing leadership as well as management competency in Sloan Fellows. As such, in addition to the standard MBA curriculum of management courses, the Sloan program contains a strong personal-development component designed to develop the leadership and strategic thinking capabilities of Sloan Fellows. The London Business School Sloan Masters is a specialised programme emphasising Strategy, Leadership and an intensive personal development provision.\n\nAdmission to Sloan Fellow Program is highly selective and goes through several steps of selection. In MIT Sloan School of Management, the prospective applicant needs to first register interest in the program website and upload resume. A valid GMAT or GRE score is also required before submitting the application. After initial screening, a member of the admission committee calls the screened registered applicant for 30 minutes discussion. Number of screened and interviewed by telephone prospective applicants will be invited to visit the program in Cambridge, Massachusetts for class visit, sit with current students and meet the program officers. After this stage, the applicant to submit a formal application. The received applications are again screened and the selected files will be moved to the interview stage. The invited candidates will have to participate in a formal admission interview, usually held in MIT Sloan campus, or globally in selected places. Following the interview, the decisions letters of admission or rejection will be sent to the applicants. This process is repeated three times for three rounds of application deadlines.\n\nFollowing a successful shortlisting after applying, London Business School Sloan Fellows will have a personal interview with an alumnus or LBS representative. There are four deadlines across the cycle. LBS offers preliminary discussions, CV reviews and class visits to support Sloan candidates’ research.\n\nThe table below shows the main differences between the Sloan Fellows program and the traditional top MBA programs.\n\nAlthough the program in any of the three schools are very similar in nature, there are some key difference among them. The table below summarizes the differences:\n\nSloan Fellows at MIT Sloan may opt for an MBA, Masters of Science in Management, or Masters of Science in Management of Technology. Sloan Fellows at London Business School and Stanford Graduate School of Business are both awarded a Master of Science degree.\n\nNotable Sloan Fellows of the MIT Sloan School of Management include:\n\n\nNotable Stanford MSx (Sloan Fellows) alumni include:\n\nNotable London Business School (Sloan Fellows) alumni include:\n\n"}
{"id": "13635798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13635798", "title": "St. John's University strike of 1966–67", "text": "St. John's University strike of 1966–67\n\nThe St. John's University strike of 1966-1967 was a strike by faculty at St. John's University in New York City which began on January 4, 1966, and ended in June 1967. The strike began after 31 faculty members were dismissed in the fall of 1965 without due process, dismissals which some felt were a violation of the professors' academic freedom. The strike ended without any reinstatements, but led to the widespread unionization of public college faculty in the New York City area.\n\nIn the fall of 1965, 31 faculty members at St. John's University were dismissed without due process or any hearing. Both the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and the United Federation of College Teachers (UFCT) claimed the university had violated the professors' academic freedom. St. John's, the two groups said, demanded that the faculty restrict their teaching to a narrow, dogmatic approach to Thomism and required faculty to submit all articles and books to the administration for clearance before seeking publication. The Rev. Joseph T. Cahill, president of St. John's, said the teachers had used their classrooms for propaganda purposes.\n\nThe president of the UFCT, Israel Kugler, pushed for a more radical response to the dispute. The AAUP refused to engage in a strike, and largely withdrew from the dispute when faculty appeared to support Kugler. Kugler called for a strike to begin in January 1966, and widened the dispute to include pay and benefits (faculty pay was the lowest of the 10 largest Catholic universities in the U.S.\n\nThe strike at St. John's started on January 4, 1966. The union pushed for mediation and arbitration in December 1965, but the university refused to submit to either. Using tactics pioneered by Albert Shanker to win collective bargaining rights for New York City public school teachers, Kugler pushed for local and state government officials to get involved in the dispute. Only a minority of St. John's faculty walked out, forcing the university to close some but not a majority of classes.\n\nDuring the next two years, Kugler challenged the university's accreditation before the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools twice. But that body only warned the university and took no further action.\n\nThe union raised $250,000 from the Workmen's Circle and other organizations to support the striking faculty. Kugler took professors' case to the Vatican and sought an individual audience with Pope Paul VI, whose encyclicals on workers' rights were repeatedly cited by the union. But the pope refused him an audience.\n\nOther tactics were tried as well. Some faculty sued the university for fraud for including their names in the 1966 catalog of classes. Pickets went up at the spring 1966 commencement and the fall 1966 opening convocation.\n\nIn the early spring of 1967, as the strike threatened to widen to other Catholic universities in the country and state legislators opened hearings on the labor dispute, the university agreed to arbitration.\n\nThe strike ended in June 1967. The union did not win recognition at St. John's, and in 1970 arbitrators ruled that the university had not acted improperly.\n\nAlthough the strike was a failure in that it did not win reinstatement for the faculty, the strike established the AFT as the pre-eminent union organizing American higher education faculty. Kugler quickly turned the UFCT's attention to other colleges and universities in the New York City area. In the next few years, under his leadership the union organized locals at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT), Nassau Community College and Westchester Community College. In 1967, Kugler began pushing for the UFCT to organize the faculty at CUNY. Backed by the AFT and the newly formed (and politically powerful) United Federation of Teachers, UFCT not only won an agreement for a union election but won the December 6, 1968, election in the face of a determined challenge from the AAUP. The union won a second election (this time for non-tenured faculty) nine days later, and a signed contract nine months later.\n\nIn 1972, Kugler merged the UFCT with its long-time rival, the Legislative Conference of the City University. The two groups formed a new organization affiliated with the AFT, the Professional Staff Congress (PSC). As of 2007, the PSC represented more than 20,000 faculty and staff members at CUNY.\n\nKugler later wrote a well-regarded article about the strike, \"The 1966 Strike at St. John's University: A Memoir,\" which was published in \"Labor's Heritage\" in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46796756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46796756", "title": "St. Monica's Senior High School", "text": "St. Monica's Senior High School\n\nSt. Monica's Senior High School, popularly known at Munche (Monica's), is a girls' second-cycle institution in Mampong in the Ashanti Region of Ghana.\n\nThe school can be located on the Kumasi-Mampong Highway. It is from Kumasi and lies on a hilly area thus the area is always cold. It is bounded on the north by the Ghana Highways Authority, Mampong; on the south by the Mampong Municipal Hospital; on the east by Mampong Babies' Home; and on the west by the Ejura-Mampong Highway.\n\nThe school's history is traced to Rt Rev John Orfeur Aglionby, the Anglican Bishop of the Gold Coast whose missionary work birthed the Convent of Our Lady and Saint Monica.\n\nIn 1926, the bishop invited the sisters of the Order of the Holy Paraclete (England) to set up a school for girl-child education.\n"}
{"id": "36360672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36360672", "title": "Tartu Karlova Gümnaasium", "text": "Tartu Karlova Gümnaasium\n\nTartu Karlova Gymnaasium (Estonian: Tartu Karlova Gümnaasium; abbreviated as TKG) is a secondary school in Tartu, Estonia. The school was founded in 1875 by Pauline Jürgens.\n\nTartu Karlova Gymnasium is one of the oldest schools in Tartu. Its roots go back as far as 1875 when Pauline Jürgens II founded her own private school. The name and the address have changed during that time. Today's building at Lina 2 street was finished in 1925 and was known as the \"Tartu City 7th Primary School\".\nIn 1967 the new part of the school was built and with new specialised music and history classes. Since then the school has been a highschool. On 1 September 1995, the name of the school was changed to the \"Tartu Karlova Gymnasium\".\n"}
{"id": "35925760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35925760", "title": "Welsh Language Commissioner", "text": "Welsh Language Commissioner\n\nThe role of the Welsh Language Commissioner () was created by the Welsh Language (Wales) Measure 2011 on 1 April 2012 with the appointment of Meri Huws as Wales' first Commissioner. The Commissioner's work is politically independent.\n\nThe Welsh Language Commissioner's main aim is to promote and facilitate the use of the Welsh language. This entails raising awareness of the official status of the Welsh language in Wales and by imposing standards on organisations. This, in turn, will lead to the establishment of rights for Welsh speakers.\n\nAccording to the Commissioner's website, there are two principles that underpin the work of the Commissioner, namely,\n\nThe Commissioner may do anything she considers appropriate to:\n\nThis includes promoting opportunities to use Welsh and encourage best practice in the use of Welsh by people dealing with other persons, or providing services to other persons. Areas of her work also includes legal issues, preparing and publishing reports, research, educational activities and written recommendations to Ministers of the Government of Wales. She can also give advice to people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "375197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375197", "title": "William Cohen", "text": "William Cohen\n\nWilliam Sebastian Cohen (born August 28, 1940) is an American politician and author from the U.S. state of Maine. A Republican, Cohen served as both a member of the United States House of Representatives and Senate, and as Secretary of Defense (1997–2001) under Democratic President Bill Clinton.\n\nCohen was born in Bangor, Maine. His mother, Clara (née Hartley), was of Protestant Irish ancestry, and his father, Reuben Cohen, was a Russian Jewish immigrant; the two owned the Bangor Rye Bread Co.\n\nAfter graduating from Bangor High School in 1958, Cohen attended Bowdoin College, graduating \"cum laude\" with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Latin in 1962. While a student at Bowdoin, Cohen was initiated as a brother of the Kappa chapter of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity.\n\nWhile in high school and college, Cohen was a basketball player and was named to the Maine all-state high school and college basketball team, and at Bowdoin was inducted into the New England All-Star Hall of Fame. Cohen attended law school at the Boston University School of Law, graduating with a Bachelor of Laws degree \"cum laude\" in 1965.\n\nHe became an assistant county attorney for Penobscot County (1968–1970). In 1968 he became an instructor at Husson College in Bangor, and later was an instructor in business administration at the University of Maine (1968–1972).\n\nCohen served as the vice president of the Maine Trial Lawyers Association (1970–1972) and as a member of the Bangor School Board (1971–1972). He became a fellow at the John F. Kennedy Institute of Politics at Harvard University in 1972, and in 1975 was named as one of the U.S. Jaycee's \"ten outstanding young men\".\n\nCohen was elected to the Bangor City Council (1969–1972) and served as Bangor Mayor in 1971-72.\n\nIn the 1972 election, Cohen won a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives, representing Maine's 2nd congressional district, succeeding Democrat William Hathaway, who was elected to the US Senate. Cohen defeated Democratic State Senator Elmer H. Violette of Van Buren.\nDuring his first term in Congress, Cohen became deeply involved in the Watergate investigation. As a member of the House Judiciary Committee, he was one of the first Republicans to break with his party, and voted for the impeachment of President Richard Nixon. During this time, \"Time\" magazine named him one of \"America's 200 Future Leaders\".\n\nAfter three terms in the House, Cohen was elected to the U.S. Senate in 1978, defeating incumbent William Hathaway in his first bid for reelection. Cohen was reelected in 1984 and 1990, serving a total of 18 years in the Senate (1979–1997). In 1990, he defeated Democrat Neil Rolde. Cohen developed a reputation as a moderate Republican with liberal views on social issues, and has been described as \"a career-long maverick with a reputation for fashioning compromise out of discord.\"\n\nIn 1994 Cohen investigated the federal government's process for acquiring information technology, and his report, \"Computer Chaos: Billions Wasted Buying Federal Computer Systems\", generated much discussion. He chose not to run for another Senate term in 1996; Susan Collins, who had worked for Cohen, was elected to succeed him. (Former Maine senator, Olympia Snowe, had also worked for Cohen while he was in the House of Representatives.)\n\nWhile in the Senate, Cohen served on both the Senate Armed Services Committee and the Governmental Affairs Committee (1979–1997) and was a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee 1983–1991 and again 1995–1997, serving as Vice Chairman from 1987-1991. He also participated in the drafting of several notable laws related to defense matters, including the Competition in Contracting Act (1984), the Montgomery G.I. Bill Act (1984), the Goldwater-Nichols Act (1986), the Intelligence Oversight Reform Act (1991), the Federal Acquisition Reform Act (1996), the Nunn-Cohen Act Amendment creating the United States Special Operations Command, and the Information Technology Management Reform Act, also known as the Clinger-Cohen Act (1996).\n\nCohen was appointed by President Bill Clinton to the position of Secretary of Defense during Clinton's second term, from 1997 to 2001, an instance of a cabinet appointment that crossed party lines.\n\nAs Secretary of Defense Cohen played a large role in directing the United States military actions in Iraq and Kosovo, including the dismissal of Wesley Clark from his post as the NATO Supreme Allied Commander. Both Operation Desert Fox in Iraq and Operation Allied Force in Kosovo were launched just months after al-Qaeda carried out the United States embassy bombings in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya, in 1998.\n\nOn December 5, 1996, President Clinton announced his selection of Cohen as secretary of defense. Cohen, a Republican about to retire from the United States Senate, was the \"right person,\" Clinton said, to build on the achievements of William Perry, \"to secure the bipartisan support America's armed forces must have and clearly deserve.\" In responding to his nomination, Cohen said that during his congressional career he had supported a nonpartisan national security policy and commended the president for appointing a Republican to his cabinet.\nDuring his confirmation hearings, Cohen said he thought on occasion he might differ with Clinton on specific national security issues. He implicitly criticized the Clinton administration for lacking a clear strategy for leaving Bosnia and stated that he thought U.S. troops should definitely be out by mid-1998. He also asserted that he would resist further budget cuts, retain the two regional conflicts strategy, and support spending increases for advanced weapons, even if it necessitated further cuts in military personnel. Cohen questioned whether savings from base closings and acquisition reform could provide enough money for procurement of new weapons and equipment that the Joint Chiefs of Staff thought necessary in the next few years. He supported the expansion of NATO and looked on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction as the most serious problem the United States faced.\n\nAfter confirmation by a unanimous Senate vote, Cohen was sworn in as the 20th Secretary of Defense on January 24, 1997. He then settled into a schedule much fuller than he had followed in the Senate. Routinely he arrived at the Pentagon before 7 a.m., received an intelligence briefing, and then met with the Deputy Secretary of Defense (John Hamre 1997–2000, Rudy de Leon 2000–01) and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (Gen. Hugh Shelton). The rest of the day he devoted to policy and budget briefings, visits with foreign and other dignitaries, and to what he termed \"ABC\" meetings at the White House with Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and National Security Advisor Sandy Berger as well as President Bill Clinton. He also traveled abroad several times during his first months in office.\n\nOne of Cohen's first major duties was to present to Congress the Fiscal Year 1998 Defense budget, which had been prepared under Secretary Perry. Cohen requested a budget of $250.7 billion, which represented 3 percent of the nation's estimated gross domestic product for FY 1998. Cohen stressed three top budget priorities: people (recruiting and retaining skilled people through regular military pay raises, new construction or modernization of barracks, and programs for child care, family support, morale, welfare, and recreation), readiness (support for force readiness, training, exercises, maintenance, supplies, and other essential needs), and modernization (development and upgrading of weapon and supporting systems to guarantee the combat superiority of U.S. forces). This meant increasing the funds available for procurement of new systems, with the target set at $60 billion by FY2001.\n\nWhen he presented the FY1998 budget, Cohen noted that he would involve himself with the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR), which would focus on the challenges to U.S. security and the nation's military needs over the next decade or more. When the QDR became public in May 1997, it did not fundamentally alter the budget, structure, and doctrine of the military. Many defense experts thought it gave insufficient attention to new forms of warfare, such as terrorist attacks, electronic sabotage, and the use of chemical and biological agents. Cohen stated that the Pentagon would retain the \"two regional wars\" scenario adopted after the end of the Cold War. He decided to scale back purchases of jet fighters, including the Air Force's F-22 Raptor and the Navy's F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, as well as Navy surface ships. The review included cutting another 61,700 active duty service members—15,000 in the Army, 26,900 in the Air Force, 18,000 in the Navy, and 1,800 in the Marine Corps, as well as 54,000 reserve forces, mainly in the Army National Guard, and some 80,000 civilians department-wide. Cohen also recommended two more rounds of base closings in 1999 and 2001. The Pentagon hoped to save $15 billion annually over the next few years to make possible the purchase of new equipment and weapon systems without a substantial budget increase above the current level of $250 billion.\n\nAs he settled into office, Cohen faced the question of the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which he supported, and its relationship to Russia. At a summit meeting between President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin in Helsinki, Finland, in March 1997, Yeltsin acknowledged the inevitability of broader NATO membership. Two months later he agreed, after negotiations with NATO officials, to sign an accord providing for a new permanent council, to include Russia, the NATO secretary general, and a representative of the other NATO nations, to function as a forum in which Russia could air a wide range of security issues that concerned that country. Formal signing of this agreement would pave the way for a July 1997 invitation from NATO to several nations, probably including Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic, to join the organization.\n\nThe proposed U.S. missile defense system received attention at the Helsinki summit, where Clinton and Yeltsin agreed to an interpretation of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty allowing the United States to proceed with a limited missile defense system currently under development. Specifically, Clinton and Yeltsin agreed to distinguish between a national missile defense system, aimed against strategic weapons, not allowed by the ABMT, and a theater missile defense system to guard against shorter range missile attacks. Some critics thought that any agreement of this kind would place undesirable limits on the development of both theater and strategic missile defenses. The Helsinki meeting also saw progress in arms control negotiations between the United States and Russia, a matter high on Cohen's agenda. Yeltsin and Clinton agreed on the need for early Russian ratification of the Second Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START II) and negotiation of START III to make further significant cuts in the strategic nuclear arsenals of both nations.\n\nThe continuation, at least until mid-1998, of the existing peacekeeping mission involving U.S. forces in Bosnia and the possibility that other such missions would arise worried Cohen, who earlier had expressed reservations about such operations. Humanitarian efforts that did not involve peacekeeping, such as in Rwanda in the recent past, also seemed likely. Other persistent national security problems, including tension with Iraq in the Persian Gulf area, Libya in North Africa, and North Korea in East Asia, could flare up again, as could the Arab–Israeli conflict.\n\nIn preparing future budgets, the challenge would be to find the right mix between money for operation and maintenance accounts on the one hand and modernization procurement funds on the other, while facing the prospect of a flat DoD budget of about $250 billion annually for the next decade or so. A relatively new problem that could affect the DoD budget was vertical integration in the defense industry. It occurred on a large scale in the 1990s as mergers of major defense contractors created a few huge dominant companies, particularly in the aerospace industry. They were called vertical because they incorporated most of the elements of the production process, including parts and subcomponents. Cohen and other Pentagon leaders began to worry that vertical integration could reduce competition and in the long run increase the costs of what the Department of Defense had to buy.\n\nFinally, Cohen had to address social issues that engaged the widest public interest. These issues included the status and treatment of lesbians and gays in the military, the role of women in combat as well as in other jobs in the services, racism, and sexual harassment.\n\nAfter leaving the Pentagon in 2001, Cohen founded \"The Cohen Group\", a business consulting and lobbyist firm, with three Pentagon officials, Bob Tyrer, Jim Bodner, and H.K. Park. Cohen was presented with the Woodrow Wilson Award for Public Service by the Woodrow Wilson Center of the Smithsonian Institution on March 7, 2002, in New York City.\n\nOn January 5, 2006, he participated in a meeting at the White House of former Secretaries of Defense and State to discuss United States foreign policy with Bush administration officials.\n\nCohen has written several books, including mysteries, poetry, and (with George Mitchell) an analysis of the Iran-contra affair. He is a Chairman Emeritus of the US-Taiwan Business Council. \"The Washington Post\" ran an article entitled \"From Public Life to Private Business\" about Cohen's abrupt transition to the business of Washington lobbying within \"weeks of leaving office.\" It discussed the affairs of the Cohen Group in greater detail and while alleging no specific impropriety, took a generally negative view of the former Senator and Secretary of Defense.\n\nOn August 21, 2006, Cohen's novel, \"Dragon Fire\", was released. The plot revolves around a secretary of defense who contends with a potential nuclear threat from a foreign country. In December 2006 he released a memoir with his wife, author Janet Langhart, entitled \"Love in Black and White.\" It is a memoir about race, religion, and the love Langhart and Cohen share over similar life circumstances and backgrounds. On August 22, 2006, Cohen appeared on The Daily Show to promote his novel.\n\nOn August 25, 2006, Cohen was interviewed by Brian Kilmeade on Fox & Friends First, primarily to promote his new novel, but towards the end of the broadcast he said: \"I think there should be a commitment to universal service. I think that only a few people are really committed to this war against terrorism... We ought to have a real call to national service to commit ourselves to some form of public service...to put us on a war footing mentality.\"\n\nOn January 3, 2007, Cohen appeared on CNN to support John Shalikashvili's op-ed in support of ending the policy known as 'Don't ask, don't tell' saying, \"The vast majority of service members are personally comfortable working and interacting with gays and lesbians, and there is only so long that Congress can ignore the evidence\".\n\nBBC News hired Cohen as a world affairs analyst in May 2016. Cohen appears in this capacity on \"BBC World News America\" and other broadcasts.\n\nCohen and Madeleine Albright are co-chairing a new \"Genocide Prevention Task Force\". Their appointment was criticized by Harut Sassounian and by the Armenian National Committee of America.\n\nCohen serves as an Advisory Board member for the Partnership for a Secure America and is also a member of the ReFormers Caucus of Issue One. In addition, he serves as a board member of the U.S.-China Business Council, having served as vice chairman between 2011-2013, and the U.S.-India Business Council.\n\nDuring the 2016 United States presidential election, Cohen joined many Republicans in breaking with party ranks to oppose the candidacy of Republican nominee Donald Trump. He endorsed Democratic nominee former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.\n\nCohen filed for divorce from his first wife, Diana Dunn, on February 15, 1987.\n\nOn February 14, 1996, Cohen and Janet Langhart were married. Janet had actually refused multiple proposals due to concerns about potential reactions in Senate reelection campaigns of an interracial marriage. Langhart is a former model, Boston television personality, and BET correspondent. Janet Langhart was known as the \"First Lady of the Pentagon\" during Cohen's tenure as Secretary.\n\nCohen served as Best Man in then-Senate Naval Liaison John McCain's second wedding (Gary Hart was a groomsman). McCain later became his Senate colleague.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", Cohen was considered a loner in Congress.\n\nHe is a Unitarian Universalist.\n\nOn the afternoon of June 10, 2009, Cohen was present at the U.S. Holocaust Museum, waiting for his wife Janet Langhart, for the world premiere of her one-act play, \"Anne and Emmett\". The play imagines a conversation between Anne Frank and Emmett Till. While Cohen waited, an elderly man with a long gun attacked the facility, fatally shooting a security guard before being wounded himself by the other guards. Cohen and Langhart were not injured, and appeared on CNN that afternoon to tell what they had seen and respond to the shooter's racist beliefs. The man was identified as James W. von Brunn, 88, of Annapolis, a longtime \"hard-core\" supremacist whose Internet writings contain extensive criticism against Jews and African Americans. Langhart's play had been promoted in \"The Washington Post\" the week before, and was being presented in honor of the eightieth anniversary of Anne Frank's birth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13108863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13108863", "title": "Yehuda Shinar", "text": "Yehuda Shinar\n\nYehuda Shinar is a graphologist, life coach, and the owner and CEO of the Shinar Institute, established in Israel in 1976. The institute's expertise is in analyzing and evaluating job candidates for managerial positions throughout the world.\n\nIn 1996, Shinar established Winning Enterprises Ltd after studying and investigating how some people seem to achieve a lot in their lives and others do not, especially in the sporting arena. Shinar and his colleagues used this information to develop a strategy for winning, focusing on their way of thinking, decision making dynamic and their one on one strategies.\n\nIn the sporting world, Shinar has worked with Sir Clive Woodward of the England rugby team, helping them to win the Rugby World Cup, Tony Falkner of Blackburn Rovers, helping them to win the National Academy League, and the Maccabi Tel Aviv football club to help them qualify for the UEFA Champions League in 2004-2005.\nShinar is also involved in lecturing and fostering winning strategies to organizations within Israel and abroad, including the Royal Bank of Scotland, the Scottish Institute of Sport, Capital Radio and Nat West.\n"}
