{"id": "29081733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29081733", "title": "1979 Texas 400", "text": "1979 Texas 400\n\nThe 1979 Texas 400 was a NASCAR Winston Cup Series (now Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series) race that took place on June 3, 1979, at Texas World Speedway in College Station, Texas.\n\nBy the following season, NASCAR had completely stopped tracking the year model of all the vehicles and most teams did not take stock cars to the track under their own power anymore. Only manual transmission vehicles were allowed to participate in this race; a policy that NASCAR has retained to the present day.\n\nTwo hundred laps took place on an oval track spanning . Darrell Waltrip won the race; beating Bobby Allison by 60 seconds. Eleven thousand and five hundred fans would attend this live race with lasted more than two hours and thirty-three minutes; making it the least attended race in NASCAR's modern era even when comparing races from after the 2008 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series season. Waltrip's overall speed for the race was while Buddy Baker achieved the pole position for the race with a speed of . Total winnings for this race were $161,250 ($ when considering inflation); Darrell would receive $21,750 of the total purse ($ when considering inflation).\n\nDale Earnhardt was Waltrip's top challenger before he crashed late in the race. Waltrip had a lap lead but Allison, Baker, and Yarborough had a one-lap dash for second. Allison got second by about two feet over Baker, who was about four feet back. Some of the more notable names to make an appearance here were: Dale Earnhardt, Richard Childress, Cale Yarborough, Terry Labonte, Richard Petty, and J. D. McDuffie.\n\nNotable crew chiefs in attendance for this race were Buddy Parrott, Joey Arrington, Kirk Shelmerdine, Darrell Bryant, Dale Inman, Bud Moore, Tim Brewer, and Jake Elder.\n\nWhile Jim Hurlbert and John Rezek would make their NASCAR Cup Series debut, Billy Hagan would make his grand exit after this race along with three other drivers. Bill Meazel would make his only NASCAR appearance during this event.\n\n\n\"† signifies that the driver is known to be deceased\" <br>\n\"* Driver failed to finish race\"\n\n"}
{"id": "51709904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51709904", "title": "2016 Egypt migrant shipwreck", "text": "2016 Egypt migrant shipwreck\n\nOn September 21, 2016, a boat capsized off the Egyptian coast with around 600 refugees on board in the Mediterranean Sea. 204 bodies were recovered (including at least 30 children), around 160 people were rescued, and hundreds of people remain missing, with approximately 300 people predicted to have been killed. Four people were arrested for trafficking and breaking capacity laws. The incident may be the worst this year in the Mediterranean Sea. \nAn Egyptian Member of Parliament named Elhamy Agina reacted to the incident by stating that the victims of the disaster \"deserved to die\" and \"do not deserve sympathy\", causing controversy after an emergency cabinet meeting between President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and Egypt's security chiefs. \n\n"}
{"id": "7851771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7851771", "title": "American Iron Racing", "text": "American Iron Racing\n\nAmerican Iron is a group of North American road racing classes sanctioned by the National Auto Sport Association (NASA).\n\nAmerican Iron racing features domestic muscle or pony cars such as Ford Mustang, Chevrolet Camaro, and Pontiac Firebird in four classes, Camaro Mustang Challenge (CMC & CMC-II), American Iron (AI), and American Iron Extreme (AIX). It has large, closely contested fields of V8 powered cars. \n\nThe different classes reflect various levels of permitted modifications, from the near showroom stock entry level Camaro Mustang Challenge (CMC) class, through to the \"almost anything goes\" American Iron Extreme (AIX) class at the opposite end of the scale. CMC, CMC-II, and AI classes have a power to weight limitation, while AIX is unrestricted. \n\nThe minimum weight for an American Iron race car is 2,700 pounds with driver included. The AI class has a maximum power to weight ratio of 9.5:1 (9.5 lbs of vehicle weight per horsepower) and a maximum torque to weight ratio of 9:1 (9 pounds of vehicle weight per each foot-pound). Both are measured at the rear wheels. These formulas are designed to allow differences in vehicle handling and power while equalizing the competition and keeping race team budgets low by penalizing excessive power.\n\nAmerican Iron races are run at all NASA regional events, as well as the annual National Championships currently held each year in September at Miller Motorsports Park in Tooele, Utah. Previously, the championships were held at Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course.\n\n"}
{"id": "6225891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6225891", "title": "Arab–Khazar wars", "text": "Arab–Khazar wars\n\nThe Arab–Khazar wars were a series of conflicts fought between the armies of the Khazar Khaganate and the Rashidun, Umayyad, and Abbasid caliphates and their respective vassals. Historians usually distinguish two major periods of conflict, the First Arab–Khazar War () and Second Arab–Khazar War (), but the Arab–Khazar military confrontation also involved sporadic raids and isolated clashes from the middle of the 7th century to the end of the 8th century.\n\nThe Arab–Khazar wars were a result of the attempts of the Umayyad Caliphate to secure control of Transcaucasia and the North Caucasus, where the Khazars were already established. The first Arab invasion, in the 640s and early 650s, ended with the defeat of an Arab force led by Abd ar-Rahman ibn Rabiah outside the Khazar town of Balanjar. Hostilities broke out again with the Caliphate in the 710s, with raids back and forth across the Caucasus Mountains. Led by the distinguished generals al-Jarrah ibn Abdallah and Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik, the Arabs were able to capture Derbent and even the southern Khazar capital of Balanjar, but these successes had little impact on the nomadic Khazars, who continued to launch devastating raids deep into Transcaucasia. In one such raid in 730, the Khazars inflicted a major defeat on the Umayyad forces at the Battle of Ardabil, killing al-Jarrah, but were in turn defeated the next year and pushed back north. Maslama then recovered Derbent, which became a major Arab military outpost and colony, before being replaced by Marwan ibn Muhammad (the future caliph Marwan II) in 732. A period of relatively localized warfare followed until 737, when Marwan led north a massive expedition that reached the Khazar capital Atil on the Volga. After securing some form of submission by the \"khagan\", the Arabs withdrew.\n\nThe 737 campaign marked the end of large-scale warfare between the two powers, establishing Derbent as the northernmost Muslim outpost and securing Muslim dominance over Transcaucasia. At the same time, the continuing warfare weakened the Umayyad army and contributed to the eventual fall of the dynasty to the Abbasid Revolution a few years later. Relations between the Muslims of the Caucasus and the Khazars remained largely peaceful thereafter, apart from two Khazar raids in the 760s and in 799, resulting from failed efforts to secure an alliance through marriage between the Arab governors or local princes of the Caucasus and the Khazar \"khagan\". Occasional warfare continued in the region between the Khazars and the Muslim principalities of the Caucasus until the collapse of the Khazar state in the late 10th century, but the great wars of the 8th century were never repeated.\n\nThe Arab–Khazar wars were part of a long series of military conflicts between the nomadic peoples of the Pontic–Caspian steppe and the more settled regions south of the Caucasus range. The two primary routes over the mountains, the Darial Pass (\"Alan Gates\") in the centre and the Pass of Derbent (\"Caspian Gates\") in the east along the Caspian Sea, have been used as invasion routes since Classical Antiquity. Consequently, the defence of the Caucasus frontier against the destructive raids of the steppe peoples such as the Scythians and the Huns came to be regarded as one of the chief duties of imperial regimes of the Near East. This is reflected in the popular belief among Middle Eastern cultures that Alexander the Great had with divine assistance barred the Caucasus against the hordes of \"Gog and Magog\". As historian Gerald Mako points out, the latter were stereotypical \"northern barbarians\", as conceived by the settled civilizations of Eurasia: \"uncivilized savages who drank blood, who ate children, and whose greed and bestiality knew no limits\"; should Alexander's barrier fail and Gog and Magog break through, the Apocalypse would follow.\n\nStarting with Peroz I (), the shahs of the Sassanid Empire built a line of stone fortifications to protect the vulnerable frontier along the Caspian shore; when completed under Khosrau I (), this stretched over from the eastern foothills of the Caucasus to the Caspian Sea. The fortress of Derbent was the strategically crucial centre-point of this fortification complex, as evoked by its Persian name \"Dar-band\", \"Knot of the Gates.\"\n\nThe Turkic Khazars appeared in the area of modern Daghestan in the latter half of the 6th century, initially as subjects of the Turkic Khaganate, but following the latter's collapse, they emerged as an independent and dominant power in the area of the northern Caucasus by the 7th century. As the most recent steppe power in the region, early medieval writers came to identify the Khazars with Gog and Magog, and the Sassanid fortifications at Derbent as Alexander's wall.\n\nLike other Near Eastern peoples, the Arabs were already familiar with the legend of Gog and Magog, who appear even in the \"Quran\" (\"Yaʾjūj wa-Maʾjūj\"). Following the Muslim conquests, these perceptions were enhanced by incorporating many of the cultural conceptions of their new subjects. The nascent Muslim Caliphate regarded itself as heir to the Sassanid, and to a lesser extent, Byzantine, tradition and \"civilizational consciousness\". As a result, the Arab caliphs also adopted the notion that, in the words of Mako, it was their duty \"to protect the settled, i.e. the civilized world from the northern barbarian\". This imperative was further reinforced by the Muslim division of the world into the \"House of Islam\" or \"Dar al-Islam\" and the \"House of War\" (\"Dar al-Harb\"), to which the pagan Turkic steppe peoples like the Khazars were consigned. \n\nThe Arabs were \"expansionists interested in conquest\", unlike their Byzantine and Sassanid predecessors who simply sought to contain the steppe peoples by fortifications and political alliances. From the beginning, the Arabs actively pursued a northward expansion, quickly posing a direct threat to the survival of the Khazars as an independent polity. The eastern Caucasus range became the main theatre of the Arab–Khazar conflict, with the Arab armies aiming to gain control of Derbent (in Arabic, \"Bab al-Abwab\" or \"Gate of Gates\") and the Khazar cities of Balanjar and Samandar. Their locations have yet to be established with certainty by modern researchers, but both cities are referred to as Khazar capitals by different Arab writers, and may have functioned as winter and summer capitals respectively. It was only later, under the impact of the Arab attacks, that the Khazars moved their capital further north, to Atil (Arabic \"al-Bayda\") on the mouths of the Volga.\n\nThe opposing armies represented different military philosophies, which derived from the nature of their societies. Arab armies contained sizeable contingents of both light and heavy cavalry, but relied primarily on their infantry, to the extent that the Arab cavalry was often limited to skirmishing during the initial phases of a battle, before dismounting and fighting on foot. While the Khazars had adopted elements of the civilizations of the south and possessed towns, they remained a largely tribal and semi-nomadic power. Like other steppe societies originating in Central Asia, they practiced a very mobile form of warfare, relying on highly skilled and hardy cavalry. As the historian Khalid Yahya Blankinship writes, \"the Khazars were to prove difficult opponents for the Muslims, perhaps partly because their state was not highly organized and thus did not have a center whose fall would bring about a sudden collapse and rapid surrender\".\n\nTo an extent, the Arab–Khazar wars were also linked to the long-lasting struggle of the Caliphate against the Byzantine Empire along the eastern fringes of Asia Minor, a theatre of war which adjoined the Caucasus. The Byzantine emperors pursued close relations with the Khazars, which amounted to a virtual alliance for most of the period in question, including such exceptional acts as the marriage of emperor Justinian II () to a Khazar princess in 705. The possibility of the Khazars linking up with the Byzantines through Armenia was a grave threat to the Caliphate, especially given its proximity to the Umayyad Caliphate's metropolitan province of Syria. This did not materialize, and Armenia was left largely quiet, with the Umayyads granting it wide-ranging autonomy and the Byzantines likewise refraining from active campaigning there. Indeed, given the common threat posed by the Khazar raids, the Umayyads found the Armenians (and the neighbouring Georgians) willing allies against the Khazars. \n\nSome Byzantinists, notably Dimitri Obolensky, suggested that the Arab expansion against the Khazars was motivated by a desire to outflank the Byzantine defences from the north, and envelop the Byzantine Empire in a pincer movement. However, this idea is rejected as far-fetched by modern scholars. As historian David Wasserstein comments, it is a scheme of extraordinary ambition, which \"requires us to accept that Byzantium had succeeded already at this primary stage in persuading the Muslims that it could not be conquered\", and furthermore that the Muslims possessed \"a far greater knowledge and understanding of the geography of Europe\" than can be demonstrated for the time in question. Mako likewise remarks that such a grand strategic plan is not borne out by the rather limited nature of the Arab–Khazar conflict until the 720s. It is more likely that the northward expansion of the Arabs beyond the Caucasus was, at least initially, the result of the onward momentum of the early Muslim conquests, with the local Arab commanders seeking to exploit opportunities, haphazardly and without any overall planning. The expansion may even have been in direct contravention to caliphal orders, repeating a frequent pattern during this period. From a strategic perspective, it is far more probable that it was the Byzantines who encouraged the Khazars to attack the Caliphate to relieve the mounting pressure on their own eastern frontier in the early 8th century, as indeed Byzantium profited considerably from the diversion of the Muslim armies northwards in the 720s and 730s, resulting in another alliance through marriage, between the future emperor Constantine V () and the Khazar princess Tzitzak in 733.\n\nGaining control over the northern branch of the Silk Road by the Caliphate has been suggested as a further motive for the conflict, but Mako disputes this claim by pointing out that warfare declined at precisely the period of the greatest expansion of traffic along the Silk Road, i.e. after the middle of the 8th century.\n\nThe Khazars themselves first campaigned in the Caucasus during the Byzantine–Sassanid War of 602–628, as subjects of the Western Turkic Khaganate. The Turks sacked Derbent and joined the Byzantines in their siege of Tiflis. Their contribution proved decisive for the eventual Byzantine victory in the war. For a few years afterwards, until , the Khazars exercised some control over Caucasian Iberia (approximately modern Georgia), Caucasian Albania (modern Republic of Azerbaijan) and Adharbayjan (modern Iranian Azerbaijan).\n\nThe Khazars and the Arabs came into conflict as a result of the first phase of Muslim expansion: by 640, the Arabs had reached Armenia, and in 642, they launched their first raid across the Caucasus under Abd ar-Rahman ibn Rabiah. This raid reached Derbent, where, according to the \"History of the Prophets and Kings\" of al-Tabari, the Persian governor, Shahrbaraz, offered to surrender the fortress to the Arabs and even to aid them against the unruly native Caucasian peoples, if he and his followers were relieved of the obligation to pay the \"jizya\" tax. The proposal was accepted and ratified by Caliph Umar (). \n\nIn 645/646, the Arabs defeated a Byzantine army, reinforced with Khazar and Alan contingents, in Armenia. As a result, Arab authority in Transcaucasia was more firmly established in the early 650s: in 652 the Armenian nobility, led by Theodore Rshtuni, recognized the Caliphate's overlordship, and in 654, following an abortive Armenian uprising, Arab authority was extended over Iberia as well. \n\nAl-Tabari reports that the first Arab advance into Khazar lands occurred as early as 642, claiming that Abd ar-Rahman ibn Rabiah reached Balanjar, without suffering any losses, and that his cavalry raided up to 200 parasangs—about —to the north of it, but both his dating and the improbable claim that the Arabs suffered no casualties have been disputed by modern scholars. Based at Derbent, Abd ar-Rahman led frequent raids against the Khazars over the following years, but these were small-scale affairs, and no event of major note is recorded in the sources. In 651/652, disregarding the instructions of the Caliph urging caution and restraint, Abd ar-Rahman led a strong army north, aiming to take Balanjar. The town was besieged for a few days, until the arrival of a Khazar relief force, coupled with a general sortie of the besieged forces, ended in a heavy defeat for the Arabs. Abd ar-Rahman (or, according to al-Baladhuri, Abd ar-Rahman's brother Salman) and 4,000 Muslim troops were left dead on the field. Three years later, the Khazars repelled a retaliatory campaign under Habib ibn Maslama. In the aftermath of these attacks, the Khazars abandoned Balanjar and moved their capital further north, in an attempt to evade the reach of the Arab armies.\n\nDue to the outbreak of the First Muslim Civil War and the priorities on other fronts, the Arabs refrained from repeating an attack on the Khazars until the early 8th century. The Khazars, on their part, only launched a few raids into the Transcaucasian principalities that were loosely under Muslim dominion: in a raid into Albania in 661/662, they were defeated by the local prince, but in 683 or 685 (also a time of civil war in the Muslim world), a large-scale raid across Transcaucasia was more successful, capturing much booty and many prisoners. The presiding princes of Iberia (Adarnase II) and Armenia (Grigor I Mamikonian) were killed trying to oppose that raid.\nRelations between the two powers remained relatively quiet until the early years of the 8th century, by which time the stage for a new round of conflict was set: Byzantine political authority had been marginalized in the Caucasus, and the Caliphate tightened its grip on Armenia after the suppression of a large-scale rebellion in 705, placing it under direct Arab rule as the province of \"Arminiya\". The Arabs and the Khazars now directly confronted each other for control of the Caucasus. Only the western parts of Transcaucasia, comprising modern Georgia, remained free from direct control by either of the two rival powers. \n\nConflicting notices place the resumption of the conflict as early as 707, with a campaign by the Umayyad general Maslama, a son of Caliph Abd al-Malik (), in Adharbayjan and up to Derbent, which appears to have been under Khazar control at the time. Further attacks on Derbent are reported by different sources for 708 under Muhammad ibn Marwan and in the next year again by Maslama, but the most likely correct date for the recovery of Derbent is Maslama's expedition in 713/714. Maslama then drove deeper into Khazar territory, trying, without much success, to subdue the Huns living north of the Caucasus (who were Khazar vassals). The Khazars opposed him under the general Alp', but also launched raids to the south into Albania in response. In 717, the Khazars raided in force into Adharbayjan, but they were driven back by the Arabs under Hatin ibn al-Nu'man. Hatin returned to the Caliph with fifty Khazar prisoners, the first such event recorded in the sources.\n\nIn 721/722, the main phase of the war began. In the winter of this year, 30,000 Khazars invaded Armenia and inflicted a crushing defeat on the mostly Syrian army of the local governor Mi'laq ibn Saffar al-Bahrani at Marj al-Hijara in February and March 722. In response, Caliph Yazid II () sent one of his most celebrated generals, al-Jarrah ibn Abdallah, with 25,000 Syrian troops north. On the news of his approach, the Khazars retreated to the vicinity of Derbent, whose Muslim garrison was still holding out. Advancing swiftly, al-Jarrah was able to enter Derbent without facing resistance, and launched raiding columns into Khazar territory. Following with the bulk of his own army, he defeated a 40,000-strong Khazar army under Barjik, one of the Khazar \"khagan\"s sons, one day's march north of Derbent. Advancing north, the Arab army captured the settlements of Khamzin and Targhu, whose inhabitants were resettled elsewhere. Finally, the Arab army reached Balanjar. The city had featured strong fortifications during the first Muslim attacks in the mid-7th century, but apparently they had been neglected in the meantime, for the Khazars chose to defend their capital by ringing the citadel with a laager of wagons. The Arabs broke it apart and stormed the city on 21 August 722. Most of Balanjar's inhabitants were killed or enslaved, but a few, including its governor, managed to flee north. The booty seized by the Arabs was so enormous that each of the 30,000 horsemen—probably an exaggeration by later historians—in the Arab army is said to have received 300 gold dinars from it. \n\nSome of the Khazar prisoners were drowned on al-Jarrah's orders. His army reduced the neighbouring fortresses as well, and continued their march north. The strongly garrisoned fortress of Wabandar capitulated in exchange for tribute, but the Arab advance was cut short before reaching the next important Khazar settlement, Samandar. Despite their success, the Arabs had not yet defeated the main Khazar army, which like all nomad forces was not dependent on cities for supplies. The presence of this force near Samandar, as well as reports of rebellions among the mountain tribes in his rear, forced the Arabs to retreat to Warthan south of the Caucasus. On his return, al-Jarrah reported on his campaign to the Caliph, but requested additional troops to defeat the Khazars, an indication of both the severity of the fighting and perhaps, according to Blankinship, that his campaign was not such a resounding success as portrayed in the Muslim sources.\nThe sources are obscure on al-Jarrah's activity in 723, but he seems to have led another campaign north beyond Balanjar (which may be an echo, or possibly the actual date, of the Balanjar campaign of 722). In response, the Khazars raided south of the Caucasus, but in February 724, al-Jarrah inflicted a crushing defeat on them in a battle between the rivers Cyrus and Araxes that lasted for several days. The new caliph, Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik (), promised to send reinforcements, but eventually failed to do so. Nevertheless, in 724 al-Jarrah captured Tiflis and brought Caucasian Iberia and the lands of the Alans under Muslim suzerainty, becoming the first Muslim commander to campaign through the Darial Pass in the process. This secured the Muslims' own flank against a possible Khazar attack through the Darial, and gave them a second invasion route into Khazar territory.\n\nIn 725, the Caliph replaced al-Jarrah with his own brother Maslama, who already held the post of governor of the Jazira. The appointment of Maslama testifies to the importance placed by the Caliph on the Khazar front, for he was one of the most distinguished generals of the Umayyad empire. For the time being, Maslama remained in the Jazira and was more concerned with operations against the Byzantines. In his stead, he sent al-Harith ibn Amr al-Ta'i to the Caucasus front. In 725, al-Harith was engaged in consolidating Muslim authority in Caucasian Albania, campaigning along the Cyrus against the regions of al-Lakz and Khasmadan. He was probably also preoccupied with supervising that year's census. The next year, Barjik launched a major invasion of Albania and Adharbayjan. The Khazars even laid siege to Warthan, during which they employed mangonels. The use of such advanced siege machines shows, according to Blankinship, that the Khazars were \"a militarily sophisticated nation, not a mere disorganized pack of barbarians\". Al-Harith was able to defeat them on the banks of the Araxes and drive them back north of the river, but the Arabs' position was clearly precarious.\n\nThis event prompted Maslama to take over personally the direction of the Khazar front in 727, where now he was faced, for the first time, by the \"khagan\" himself, as both sides escalated the conflict. Maslama, probably reinforced with more Syrian and Jaziran troops, took the offensive. He recovered the Darial Pass, apparently lost in the period since al-Jarrah's expedition in 724, and pushed on into Khazar territory, campaigning there until the onset of winter forced him to return to Adharbayjan. Whatever Maslama's achievements in this expedition, they were not enough. The next year, when he repeated his invasion, it ended in what Blankinship calls a \"near disaster\". Arab sources report that the Umayyad troops fought for thirty or even forty days in the mud, under continuous rainfall, before scoring a victory against the \"khagan\" on 17 September 728. How great that victory was, however, is open to question, because on his return Maslama was ambushed by the Khazars, whereupon the Arabs simply abandoned their baggage train and fled headlong through the Darial Pass to safety. In the aftermath of this campaign, Maslama was replaced yet again by al-Jarrah al-Hakami. For all his energy, Maslama's campaigning failed to produce the desired results: by 729, the Arabs had lost control of northeastern Transcaucasia and been thrust once more on the defensive, with al-Jarrah again having to defend Adharbayjan against a Khazar invasion.\n\nIn 729/730, al-Jarrah returned to the offensive through Tiflis and the Darial Pass. Arab sources report that he reached as far as the Khazar capital, al-Bayda, on the Volga, but modern historians such as Dunlop and Blankinship consider this improbable. The Khazars launched a counterstroke under a certain Tharmach, which forced al-Jarrah to retreat south of the Caucasus once again to defend Albania. It is unclear whether the Khazars came through the Darial Pass or the Caspian Gates, but they managed to move around al-Jarrah's army at Bardha'a and lay siege to Ardabil. The city was the capital of Adharbayjan, and the mass of the Muslim settlers and their families, some 30,000 in total, lived within its walls. When al-Jarrah learned of this, he led his army in a rapid march south and engaged the Khazars outside the city walls. There, after a three-day battle on 7–9 December 730, al-Jarrah's army of 25,000 was all but annihilated by the Khazars under Barjik. Al-Jarrah was among the fallen, and command passed to his brother al-Hajjaj, who was unable to prevent the sacking of Ardabil. The 10th-century historian Agapius of Hierapolis reports that the Khazars took as many as 40,000 prisoners from the city, al-Jarrah's army, and the surrounding countryside. The Khazars raided the province at will, sacking Ganza and attacking other settlements, with some detachments reaching as far as Mosul in the northern Jazira, adjacent to the Umayyad metropolitan province of Syria.\n\nThe defeat at Ardabil was a major shock to the Muslims, who for the first time faced an enemy penetrating so deep within the borders of the Caliphate, and Caliph Hisham appointed the veteran military leader Sa'id ibn Amr al-Harashi to take command against the Khazars in the short term, while Maslama prepared to march against them. Although the forces he could muster immediately (including refugees from Ardabil who had to be paid ten gold dinars to be persuaded to fight) were small, Sa'id managed to recover Akhlat on Lake Van. From there he moved northeast to Bardha'a and south again to relieve the siege of Warthan. Near Bajarwan Sa'id came upon a 10,000-strong Khazar army, which he defeated, killing most of the Khazars, and rescuing the 5,000 Muslim prisoners they had with them. The surviving Khazars fled north, with Sa'id in pursuit. Despite this success, Sa'id was relieved of his command in early 731 and even imprisoned for a while at Qabala and Bardha'a as a result of the jealousy of Maslama, whom Hisham had re-appointed as governor of Armenia and Adharbayjan. \n\nMaslama came to the Caucasus with many Jaziran troops and took the offensive. He restored the provinces of Albania to Muslim allegiance after meting out exemplary punishment to the inhabitants of Khaydhan, who resisted his advance, and reached Derbent, where he found a Khazar garrison of 1,000 men with their families installed. Bypassing the fortress, Maslama advanced north. Although the details of this campaign in the sources may be confused with that of 728, it appears that he took Khamzin, Balanjar, and Samandar before being forced to retreat again after a confrontation with the bulk of the Khazar army under the \"khagan\" himself. Leaving their campfires burning, the Arabs withdrew in the middle of the night, and in a series of forced marches covering twice the usual distance, reached Derbent. The \nKhazars shadowed Maslama's march south and attacked him near Derbent, but the Arab army, augmented by local levies, resisted their onslaught until a small picked force attacked the \"khagan\"s tent and wounded the Khazar ruler himself. Taking heart, the Muslims attacked and defeated the Khazars. It is probably this battle or campaign in which Barjik was reportedly killed. Taking advantage of his victory, Maslama evicted the Khazars from Derbent by poisoning their water supply and re-founded the city as a military colony, garrisoning it with 24,000 mostly Syrian troops divided into quarters by the districts (\"jund\") of their origin. After that he returned with the rest of his army (mostly the favoured Jaziran and Qinnasrini contingents) south of the Caucasus for the winter, while the Khazars re-occupied their abandoned towns. Despite the capture of Derbent, Maslama's record was apparently unsatisfactory for Hisham, who replaced his brother in March 732 with Marwan ibn Muhammad, who would later reign as the last Umayyad caliph in 744–750.\n\nIn the summer of 732, Marwan led 40,000 men north into Khazar lands. The accounts of this campaign are confused: Ibn A'tham records that he reached Balanjar and returned to Derbent with much captured livestock, but the campaign is described in terms strongly reminiscent of Maslama's expeditions in 728 and 731, and its veracity is open to doubt. Ibn Khayyat on the other hand reports that Marwan led a far more limited campaign on the country immediately to the north of Derbent and then retired there to spend the winter. Marwan was more active in the south, where he raised Ashot III Bagratuni to the position of presiding prince of Armenia, effectively granting the country broad autonomy in exchange for the service of its soldiers alongside the Caliphate's armies. This unique concession points, according to Blankinship, to the worsening manpower crisis faced by the Caliphate. At about the same time, the Khazars and Byzantines strengthened their ties and formalized their alliance against their common enemy with the marriage of Constantine V to the Khazar princess Tzitzak.\n\nAfter Marwan's 732 expedition, a period of quiet set in. Marwan was replaced as governor of Armenia and Adharbayjan in spring 733 by Sa'id al-Harashi, but he undertook no campaigns during the two years of his governorship. Blankinship attributes this inactivity to the exhaustion of the Arab armies and draws a parallel with the contemporaneous quiet phase in Transoxiana in 732–734, where the Arabs had also suffered a series of costly defeats at the hands of a Turkic steppe power. In the meantime, Marwan is reported to have gone before Caliph Hisham and remonstrated against the policy followed in the Caucasus, recommending that he himself be sent to deal with the Khazars, with full authority and an army of 120,000 men. When Sa'id requested to be relieved in 735 due to his failing eyesight, Hisham appointed Marwan to replace him.\n\nMarwan returned to the Caucasus determined to launch a decisive blow against the Khazars, but it appears that he too was unable to launch anything but local expeditions for some time. He established a new base of operations at Kasak, some twenty parsangs from Tiflis and forty from Bardha'a, but his initial expeditions were against minor local potentates. In 735, Marwan captured three fortresses in Alania, near the Darial Pass, and the ruler of a North Caucasian principality, Tuman Shah, who was restored to his lands by the Caliph as a client ruler. In the next year, Marwan campaigned against another local prince, Wartanis, whose castle was seized and its defenders killed despite their surrender; Wartanis himself tried to flee, but was captured and executed by the inhabitants of Khamzin. Indeed, Agapius and Michael the Syrian record that the Arabs and the Khazars concluded peace during this period, information which Muslim sources ignore or downplay as a short-lived ruse by Marwan designed to gain time for his preparations and mislead the Khazars as to his intentions.\nMarwan prepared a massive strike for 737, intended to end the war for good. Marwan apparently went to Damascus in person to persuade Hisham to back this project and was successful: the 10th-century historian Bal'ami claims that his army numbered 150,000 men, comprising regular forces of Syria and the Jazira, as well as volunteers for the \"jihad\", Armenian troops under Ashot Bagratuni, and even armed camp followers and servants. Whatever the real size of Marwan's army, it was a huge force and certainly the largest ever sent against the Khazars. Marwan first secured his rear by subduing the Armenian factions who were hostile to the Arabs and their client Ashot. He then pushed into Caucasian Iberia, driving its Chosroid ruler to seek refuge in the fortress of Anakopia on the Black Sea coast, in the Byzantine protectorate of Abkhazia. Marwan laid siege to Anakopia itself, but he was forced to retire due to the outbreak of dysentery among his troops.\n\nMarwan now launched a two-pronged offensive against the Khazars: 30,000 men (including most of the levies from the Caucasian principalities) under the governor of Derbent, Asid ibn Zafir al-Sulami, advanced north along the coast of the Caspian Sea, while Marwan himself with the bulk of his forces crossed the Darial Pass. The invasion met little resistance; the Arab sources report that Marwan had deliberately detained the Khazar envoy and only let him go with a declaration of war once he was deep in Khazar territory. The two Arab armies converged on Samandar, where a great review was held; according to Ibn A'tham, the troops were issued new clothing in white—the dynastic colour of the Umayyads—as well as new spears. From there Marwan pushed on, reaching, according to some Arab sources, the Khazar capital of al-Bayda on the Volga. The \"khagan\" withdrew towards the Ural Mountains, but left behind a considerable force to protect the capital. This was a \"spectacularly deep penetration\", according to Blankinship, but of little strategic value: the 10th-century travellers Ibn Fadlan and Istakhri describe the Khazar capital in their time as little more than a large encampment, and there is no evidence that it had been larger or more urbanized in the past. \nThe subsequent course of the campaign is only provided by Ibn A'tham and the sources drawn from his work. According to this account, Marwan penetrated further north, and attacked a Slavic people called Burtas, whose territory extended up to that of the Volga Bulgars and who were Khazar subjects, taking 20,000 families (or 40,000 persons, in other accounts) captive. The Khazar army, under the \"tarkhan\" (one of the highest dignitaries in Turkic states), shadowed the Arab advance from the opposite shore of the Volga. As the Khazars avoided battle, Marwan sent a detachment of 40,000 troops across the Volga under al-Kawthar ibn al-Aswad al-'Anbari, which surprised the Khazars in a swamp. In the ensuing battle, the Arabs killed 10,000 Khazars, including the \"tarkhan\", and took 7,000 captives. Thereupon the Khazar \"khagan\" himself is said to have requested peace. Marwan reportedly offered \"Islam or the sword\", whereupon the \"khagan\" agreed to convert to Islam. Two \"faqihs\" were sent to instruct him on the details of the faith—the prohibition on consuming wine, pork, and unclean meat are specifically mentioned. Marwan also took with him large numbers of Slav and Khazar captives, whom he resettled in the eastern Caucasus: some 20,000 Slavs were settled at Kakheti, according to al-Baladhuri, while the Khazars were resettled at al-Lakz. Soon after, the Slavs killed their appointed governor and fled north, but Marwan rode after them and killed them.\n\nMarwan's 737 expedition was the climax of the Arab–Khazar wars, but its actual results were meagre. Although the Arab campaigns after Ardabil may indeed have discouraged the Khazars from further warfare, any recognition of Islam or of Arab supremacy by the \"khagan\" was evidently conditional upon the presence of Arab troops deep in Khazar territory, and such presence could not be sustained for long. Furthermore, the credibility of the conversion of the \"khagan\" to Islam is disputed: al-Baladhuri's account, which probably is closer the original sources, suggests that it was not the \"khagan\" but a minor lord who converted to Islam and was placed in charge of the Khazars at al-Lakz—in itself, according to Blankinship, an indication of the implausibility of the conversion of the \"khagan\", if the Khazar Muslim converts had to be removed to safety in Umayyad territory. The conversion of the \"khagan\" is also apparently contradicted by the fact that the Khazar court embraced Judaism as its official faith, a decision which clearly owed a great deal to the determination of the Khazars to avoid assimilation by, and emphasize their independence from, both the Christian Byzantine and the Muslim Arab empires.\n\nWhatever the real events of Marwan's campaigns, warfare between the Khazars and the Arabs ceased for more than two decades after 737. Arab military activity in the Caucasus continued until 741, with Marwan launching repeated expeditions against the various principalities of the northern Caucasus. Blankinship emphasizes that these campaigns appear to have been closer to raids, designed to seize plunder and extract tribute to ensure the upkeep of the Arab army, rather than attempts at permanent conquest. On the other hand, the British orientalist Douglas M. Dunlop considered that Marwan came \"within an ace of succeeding\" in his conquest of Khazaria, and that he \"apparently intended to resume operations against the \"khagan\" at a later date\", but this never materialized.\n\nDespite the Umayyads' success at establishing a more or less stable frontier anchored at Derbent, they were unable to push any further, despite repeated efforts, in the face of vigorous Khazar resistance. Dunlop drew parallels between the Umayyad–Khazar confrontation at the Caucasus and that between the Umayyads and the Franks at roughly the same time across the Pyrenees that ended in the Battle of Tours, noting that, like the Franks in the west, the Khazars played a crucial role in stemming the tide of the early Muslim conquests. Blankinship also highlights the limited gains made by the Caliphate in the Second Arab–Khazar War as disproportionate to the resources expended: Arab control was in reality limited to the lowlands and coast, and the land itself was too poor to recompense the Umayyad treasury. More importantly, the need to maintain the large garrison at Derbent further depleted the already overstretched Syro-Jaziran army, the main pillar of the Umayyad regime. Eventually, the weakening of the Syrian army through its dispersion across the various fronts of the Caliphate would be the major factor in the fall of the Umayyad dynasty during the Muslim civil wars of the 740s and the Abbasid Revolution that followed them.\n\nThe Khazars resumed their raids on Muslim territory after the Abbasid succession, reaching deep into Transcaucasia. Although by the 9th century the Khazars had re-consolidated their control over Dagestan almost to the gates of Derbent itself, they never seriously attempted to challenge Muslim control of the southern Caucasus.\n\nThe first conflict between the Khazars and the Abbasids resulted from a diplomatic manoeuvre by the Caliph al-Mansur (). Attempting to strengthen the Caliphate's ties with the Khazars, in he ordered his governor of Armenia, Yazid al-Sulami, to marry a daughter of the \"khagan\" Baghatur. The marriage indeed took place amidst much celebration, but she died in childbirth two years later, along with her infant child. The \"khagan\" suspected the Muslims of poisoning his daughter, and launched devastating raids south of the Caucasus in 762–764: under the leadership of a Khwarezmian \"tarkhan\" named Ras, the Khazars devastated Albania, Armenia, and Iberia, where they captured Tiflis. Yazid himself managed to escape capture, but the Khazars returned north with thousands of captives and much booty. A few years later, however, in 780, when the deposed Iberian ruler Nerse tried to induce the Khazars to campaign against the Abbasids and restore him to his throne, the \"khagan\" refused. This was probably the result of a brief period of anti-Byzantine orientation in Khazar foreign policy, resulting from disputes between the two powers in the Crimea. During the same period, the Khazars helped Leon II of Abkhazia throw off Byzantine overlordship.\n\nPeace reigned in the Caucasus between Arabs and Khazars until 799, when the last major Khazar attack into Transcaucasia took place. Chroniclers again attribute this attack to a failed marriage alliance. According to Georgian sources, the \"khagan\" desired to marry the beautiful Shushan, daughter of Prince Archil of Kakheti (), and he sent his general Buljan to invade Iberia and capture her. Most of the central region of K'art'li was occupied, and Prince Juansher () was taken off into captivity for a few years, but rather than be captured, Shushan committed suicide, and the furious \"khagan\" had Buljan executed. Arab chroniclers, on the other hand, attribute this to the plans of the Abbasid governor al-Fadl ibn Yahya (one of the famous Barmakids) to marry one of the \"khagan\"s daughters, who died on her journey south, while a different story is reported by al-Tabari, whereby the Khazars were invited to attack by a local Arab magnate in retaliation against the execution of his father, the governor of Derbent, by the general Sa'id ibn Salm. According to the Arab sources, the Khazars then raided as far as the Araxes, necessitating the dispatch of troops under Yazid ibn Mazyad, as the new governor of Transcaucasia, with more forces under Khazim ibn Khuzayma in reserve.\n\nArabs and Khazars continued to clash sporadically in the North Caucasus in the 9th and 10th centuries, but warfare was localized and of far lower intensity than the great wars of the 8th century. Thus the Ottoman historian Münejjim Bashi records a period of warfare lasting from until 912, perhaps linked to the Caspian raids of the Rus' at about the same time, whom the Khazars allowed to pass through their lands unhindered. The Khazar threat receded with the progressive collapse of Khazar power in the 10th century and defeats at the hands of the Rus' and other Turkic nomads like the Oghuz Turks. The Khazar realm contracted to its core around the lower Volga, and became removed from reach of the Arab Muslim principalities of the Caucasus. Thus Ibn al-Athir's reports of a war between the Shaddadids of Ganja with the \"Khazars\" in 1030 probably refers to the Georgians instead. In the end, the last Khazars found refuge among their former enemies. Münejjim Bashi records that in 1064, \"the remnants of the Khazars, consisting of three thousand households, arrived in Qahtan [somewhere in Dagestan] from the Khazar territory. They rebuilt it and settled in it\".\n\n"}
{"id": "51030286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51030286", "title": "Autoclasica", "text": "Autoclasica\n\nAutoclasica is an elegance competition for classic and vintage cars. It has taken place every year since 1998 during the first weekend of October in San Isidro, Buenos Aires, Argentina.\nThe event is the largest in South America, with more than 600 vehicles on display.\n\nThe show takes place the first week of October at the Hipódromo de San Isidro gardens, organized by the Club de Automoviles Clasicos (CAC), of Argentina.\n\n"}
{"id": "53791679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53791679", "title": "Bala Turkvision Song Contest 2017", "text": "Bala Turkvision Song Contest 2017\n\nBala Turkvision Song Contest 2017 () was to be the second edition of the Bala Turkvision Song Contest, which was to take place at the Saryarka Velodrome, in Astana, Kazakhstan; and organised by Adam Media Group. The contest was originally scheduled to take place in December 2016, but was cancelled due to on-going events in Turkey. Only five Turkic regions, which have either a large Turkic population or a widely spoken Turkic language, confirmed their participation in the contest before it was cancelled for the second year running on October 20, 2017. As of now, the future of the Bala Turkvision Song Contest remains uncertain.\n\nThe contest was originally scheduled to take place in Turkey, but was later announced as being cancelled due to the December 2016 Istanbul bombings, marking the first time since the inaugural contest in 2015 that a cancellation of the contest had occurred.\n\nIn February 2017 it was announced by Ministry of Culture and Sports in Kazakhstan, that the 2017 edition would take place in Astana, Kazakhstan, and would coincide with other events taking place in the city as part of Expo 2017.\n\nThe contest was originally going to be held at the Barys Arena, in Astana, Kazakhstan.\n\nThe following list of countries and regions were on the participation list for Bala Turkvision 2016, which was cancelled due to the situation in Turkey. It is unknown if they will participate at the rescheduled edition in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "28023655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28023655", "title": "Barnet Fair", "text": "Barnet Fair\n\nBarnet Fair is an annual horse and pleasure fair held near Mays Lane, Barnet, England, on the first Monday in September.\nThe Fair takes place over three days starting on 4 September. It still operates under its royal Charter which is issued by Barnet council. The focus in the present-day Fair is no longer on horses and other livestock; but it is rather a pleasure fair instead.\n\nThe fair began in 1588 when Queen Elizabeth I granted a charter to the Lord of the Manor of Barnet to hold a fair twice yearly, in addition to the weekly Barnet Market. Originally held in June and October, Lord John Tomlinson changed the dates to April and September in 1758 for the reason of improving business. From 1881, the April fair ceased.\n\nThe focus of the fair was its livestock, with animals being brought from across the United Kingdom. In 1834, \"The Times\" reported that Barnet Fair was England's largest cattle market, with up to 40,000 animals on display.\n\nFrom the eighteenth century, the festivities also used to include horse racing, although these ceased in 1870 when the railway station was built on the ground in which they had been held.\n\nIn 1896, a film was made about Barnet Fair, entitled \"Barnet Horse Fair\".\n\nThe term 'Barnet Fair', normally shortened to 'Barnet', has become rhyming slang for 'hair'.\n\n\"Barnet Fair\" is the name of a song by Steeleye Span.\n"}
{"id": "27939015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27939015", "title": "Bhopal (play)", "text": "Bhopal (play)\n\nBhopal is a play by Canadian playwright Rahul Varma about the Bhopal disaster.\n\nIt premiered in 2001 produced by Teesri Duniya and directed by Jack Langedijk. It used a non-realistic, live music, minimalist set and a chorus.\n\nIt was translated into Hindi as Zahreeli Hawa in 2003 by translator/director Habib Tanvir.\n\nIt was produced by Cahoots Theatre Projects in 2003 at the Theatre Centre in Toronto, directed by Guillermo Verdecchia. The set consisted of a wall of dirty rags and sand on the floor.\n\nIt was translated into French in 2005 by translator Paul Lefebvre and performed at Theatre Periscope in Quebec City and in Montreal at the Espace Libre. Directed by Philippe Soldevilla. Eight actors performed all the rolls with doubling and with added dance. The set was made up of wooden blocks moved into different configurations.\n\n\"Bhopal\" was published in 2004 by Playwrights Canada Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "332240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332240", "title": "Bushmeat", "text": "Bushmeat\n\nBushmeat, wildmeat, or game meat is meat from non-domesticated mammals, reptiles, amphibians and birds hunted for food in tropical forests. Commercial harvesting and the trade of wildlife is considered a threat to biodiversity.\n\nBushmeat also provides a route for a number of serious tropical diseases to spread to humans from their animal hosts. These include Ebola. Bushmeat is used for sustenance in remote areas, while in major towns and cities in bushmeat eating societies it is treated as a delicacy.\n\nToday the term \"bushmeat\" is commonly used for meat of terrestrial wild or feral mammals, killed for sustenance or commercial purposes throughout the humid tropics of the Americas, Asia, and Africa. In West Africa (primarily Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Nigeria), \"Achatina achatina\", a giant African snail, is also gathered, sold, eaten, and monitored as part of the bushmeat trade. To reflect the global nature of hunting of wild animals, Resolution 2.64 of the IUCN General Assembly in Amman in October 2000 referred to \"wild meat\" rather than \"bushmeat\". A more worldwide term for terrestrial wild animals is game. The term \"bushmeat crisis\" is sometimes used to describe unsustainable hunting of often endangered wild mammals in West and Central Africa and the humid tropics, depending on interpretation. African hunting predates recorded history; by the 21st century, it had become an international issue.\n\nThe volume of the bushmeat trade in West and Central Africa was estimated at 1-5 million tonnes per year at the turn of the century. According to the Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR) in 2014, approximately 5 million tonnes were still being consumed per year in the Congo Basin.\n\nFor the people of this region, bushmeat represents a primary source of animal protein in the diet, making it a significant commercial industry. According to a 1994 study in Gabon, annual sales were estimated at US$50 million. The study found that bushmeat accounted for more than half of meat sold in local markets, with primates representing 20% of the total bushmeat.\n\nLogging concessions operated by companies in African forests have been closely linked to the bushmeat trade. Because they provide roads, trucks and other access to remote forests, they are the primary means for the transportation of hunters and meat between forests and urban centres. Some, including the Congolaise Industrielle du Bois (CIB) in the Republic of Congo, have partnered with governments and international conservation organizations to regulate the bushmeat trade within the concessions where they operate. Numerous solutions are needed; because each country has different circumstances, traditions and laws, no one solution will work in every location.\n\nIn the case of Ghana, international over-exploitation of African fishing grounds has increased demand for bushmeat. Both EU-subsidized fleets and local commercial fleets have depleted fish stocks, leaving local people to supplement their diets with animals hunted from nature reserves. Over 30 years of data link sharp declines in both mammal populations and the biomass of 41 wildlife species with a decreased supply of fish.\n\nIn the case of Liberia in West Africa, bushmeat is eaten widely and is considered a delicacy. A 2004 public opinion survey found that bushmeat ranked second behind fish among residents of the capital Monrovia as a preferred source of protein. Of households where bushmeat was served, 80% of residents said they cooked it \"once in a while\", while 13% cooked it once a week and 7% cooked bushmeat daily. The survey was conducted during the last civil war, and bushmeat consumption is now believed to be far higher.\n\nThe transmission of highly variable retrovirus chains causes zoonotic diseases. Outbreaks of the Ebola virus in the Congo Basin and in Gabon in the 1990s have been associated with the butchering of apes and consumption of their meat. Bushmeat hunters in Central Africa infected with the human T-lymphotropic virus were closely exposed to wild primates.\n\nResults of research on wild chimpanzees in Cameroon indicate that they are naturally infected with the simian foamy virus and constitute a reservoir of HIV-1, a precursor of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in humans. There are several distinct strains of HIV, indicating that this cross-species transfer has occurred several times. Researchers have shown that HIV originated from a similar virus in primates called simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV); it is likely that HIV was initially transferred to humans after having come into contact with infected bushmeat.\n\nThe Ebola virus, for which the primary host is suspected to be fruit bats, has been linked to bushmeat. Between the first recorded outbreak in 1976 and the largest in 2014, the virus has transferred from animals to humans only 30 times, despite large numbers of bats being killed and sold each year. Bats drop partially eaten fruits and pulp, then land mammals such as gorillas and duikers feed on these fallen fruits. This chain of events forms a possible indirect means of transmission from the natural host to animal populations.\n\nAlthough primates and other species may be intermediates, evidence suggests people primarily contract the virus from bats. Since most people buy smoked bushmeat, hunters and people preparing the food have the highest risk of infection. Hunters usually shoot, net, scavenge or catapult their prey, and butcher the bats without gloves, getting bites or scratches and coming in contact with their blood.\n\nIn 2014, the suspected index case for the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is a two-year-old child in Guéckédou in south-eastern Guinea, who was the child of a family that hunted two species of fruit bat, \"Hypsignathus monstrosus\" and \"Epomops franqueti\". Some researchers suggested the case was caused by zoonotic transmission through the child playing with an insectivorous bat from a colony of Angolan free-tailed bats near the village.\n\nDespite health organisations warning about risks of bushmeat, surveys pre-dating the 2014 outbreak indicate that people who eat bushmeat are usually unaware of the risks and view it as healthy food. Because of bushmeat's role as a protein source in Western Africa, it is traditionally associated with good nutrition, and efforts to outlaw the sale and consumption of bushmeat have been impossible to enforce and have met with suspicion from rural communities. In one study in Ghana, none of the bushmeat hunters knew about Ghana's hunting laws, suggesting that bans may not be enforceable. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that between 30 and 80 percent of protein intake in rural households in Central Africa comes from wild meat. However, as human populations grow, the interactions between humans and wildlife will increase, making possible zoonotic transmission of diseases from animal hosts more likely.\n\nOne major Nigerian newspaper published a report about the widespread view that eating dog meat was a healthy alternative to bush meat. Dog meat was implicated in a June 2015 Liberian outbreak of Ebola, where three villagers who had tested positive for the disease had shared a meal of dog meat.\n\nOne study conducted in Liberia during the recent Ebola crisis showed that socio-economic conditions impacted bushmeat consumption. During the crisis, there was a decrease in bushmeat consumption and daily meal frequency. In addition, preferences for bushmeat species stayed the same.\n\nAnimals used as bushmeat may also carry other diseases such as smallpox, chicken pox, tuberculosis, measles, rubella, rabies, yellow fever and yaws.\nAfrican squirrels (\"Heliosciurus\", \"Funisciurus\") have been implicated as reservoirs of the monkeypox virus in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\nThe bubonic plague bacteria can transfer to humans when handling or eating North American prairie dogs.\n\nIn many instances, contracting the diseases mentioned above often occurs due to the cutting of the meat, when animal blood and other fluids may touch the people cutting it, thereby infecting them. Another path of infection is that some of the meat may not be completely cooked. This often occurs due to the type of cooking method: hanging the meat over an open fire. Improper preparation of any infected animal may be fatal.\n\nThe consumption of bushmeat threatens a wide range of species, including species that are endangered and threatened with extinction. For example, a range of endangered species are hunted for bushmeat in Liberia.\n\nSpecies hunted for food in Liberia include elephants, pygmy hippopotamus, chimpanzees, duikers, and other monkeys. Forest rangers in Liberia say that bushmeat poachers will kill any forest animal they encounter.\n\nThe great apes of Central and West Africa—gorillas and chimpanzees—are nearly ubiquitously sold as bushmeat throughout the region, and a study from 1995 suggests that the off-take is unsustainable. With the exception of a 1995 report from Cameroon, where gorillas were considered a target species for hunters, Central and West African hunters do not appear to target them. Historically, poachers have favored hunting chimpanzees because they flee when one is shot. Gorillas, however, only became easy targets when buckshot ammunition became available, allowing the hunters to more easily kill the dominant male silverback whose role it is to defend his troop.\n\nGenerally, great apes constitute a minor portion of the bushmeat trade. Although a 1996 study indicated that approximately 1.94% of animal carcasses sold and consumed in Brazzaville in the Republic of the Congo belonged to great apes, it accounted for 2.23% of the biomass of the meat sold, which is significant for ape populations relative to their ecosystem. Furthermore, these numbers may not have accurately represented the extent of the problem for the following reasons:\n\nDuring the time interval between a study from 1981 to 1983 and another study between 1998–2002 in Gabon, ape population density fell 56%, despite the country retaining nearly 80% of its original forest cover. This decline was primarily associated with the transformation of the bushmeat trade from subsistence level to unregulated, commercial hunting, facilitated by transportation infrastructure intended for logging purposes. Unsustainable hunting practices along with habitat loss makes the extinction of these endangered primates more likely.\n\n\nOther wildlife consumption:\n\n"}
{"id": "25400133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25400133", "title": "Cheryl Cole's Night In", "text": "Cheryl Cole's Night In\n\nCheryl Cole's Night In was a one-off television special, starring English recording artist Cheryl Cole, produced for ITV, that aired on 12 December 2009 at 6:30 pm. The programme was hosted by Holly Willoughby, featured a host of other performers and acted as a lead-in to the final of the sixth series of \"The X Factor\", in which Cole is a judge. Cole performed songs from her debut solo album, \"3 Words\", and the programme also featured performances from other musical acts as well as interviews conducted by Willoughby. The programme received mixed reviews from critics and was watched by 5 million people; this is substantially less than the viewing figures of other programmes airing at the same time.\n\nTabloid newspaper \"The Sun\" published a report on 21 November 2009 claiming that Cole would receive £100,000 for appearing in a programme entitled \"Cheryl Cole's Night In\"; ITV confirmed the programme two days later, with Cole saying that she would be \"working with some of [her] favourite artists\". The programme was recorded through the week beginning 7 December at the BBC Television Centre and images of Cole performing the song \"Fight for This Love\", whilst dressed as a ninja, were released. Cole also debuted a song from her album, \"3 Words\", titled \"Parachute\", where she danced with Derek Hough, a professional champion of \"Dancing with the Stars\".\n\nAnna Pickard of \"The Guardian\" described the programme as \"an hour of commissioning genius\", despite Stuart Heritage of the same publication arguing that \"just the title is enough to put you off\". In a separate article, Heritage voiced his belief that the programme saw Cole \"discussing her life in the blandest possible terms while wearing a variety of impractical dresses\". Rick Fulton of the \"Daily Record\" was complimentary of the programme as he compared the dance routine that accompanied \"Parachute\" to a routine from the programme \"Strictly Come Dancing\". Alexandra Burke, who featured in the programme, praised Cole by complimenting her hairstyle and by stating that her performance had \"gone up another level\". Sian Brewis of the \"Leicester Mercury\" was critical of the programme; she claimed that it was an \"hour-long plug for Chezza's [Cole’s nickname] album\", branded Willoughby's questions \"vacuous\" and compared Cole’s costumes to that worn by characters of \"Street Fighter II\". Rachel Holmes, writing in \"The Guardian\", was also critical of Cole’s choice of attire and argued that the programme was uninformative. Holmes also claimed that viewers \"were suffering from Chezza overload\" due to her appearances on \"The X Factor\" the same weekend.\n\nThe programme attracted 5 million viewers, a 22% share of the viewing audience, on its first airing. However, an episode of \"Merlin\" and an installment of the seventh series of \"Strictly Come Dancing\", which aired at the same time on BBC One, attracted 5.2 million (25% of the audience) and 8.1 million (33%) respectively.\n"}
{"id": "11822477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11822477", "title": "Collapse of Jiujiang Bridge", "text": "Collapse of Jiujiang Bridge\n\nThe Collapse of Jiujiang Bridge () refers to the partial collapse of a freeway bridge in the city of Foshan, in Guangdong province in the People's Republic of China on June15, 2007. The bridge, which spans the Xijiang River, collapsed at approximately 5:30 AM. A freighter \"Nanguiji 035\" with a cargo of sand strayed from the navigation channel and struck one of the main pillars, causing approximately of the bridge to fall into the river. It is believed that four cars on the highway, carrying nine passengers, were submerged in the river as a result. Eight bodies were recovered. All ten crew members of the boat were rescued.\n"}
{"id": "2200458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200458", "title": "Cough CPR", "text": "Cough CPR\n\nCough CPR is the subject of a hoax email that began circulating in 1999. It is described as a \"resuscitation technique\" in which through prolonged coughing and deep breathing every 2 seconds, a person suffering a cardiac dysrhythmia immediately before cardiac arrest can keep conscious until help arrives (or until the person can get to the nearest hospital). Neither the American Heart Association nor the American Red Cross endorses cough CPR during a heart attack.\n\nThis confusion appears to revolve primarily over the public's failure to discriminate between a heart attack, cardiac arrest and cardiac dysrhythmias. A heart attack occurs when an occlusion (e.g. blood clot) of an artery in the heart slowly causes tissue to die. This can result in chest pain and discomfort, and requires immediate medical attention to resolve the occlusion by emergency surgery or cardiac clot-busting drugs. A cardiac dysrhythmia is primarily an electrical problem within the heart, and is sometimes treated with electrolytes, vagal maneuver, or electrical cardioversion. Many dysrhythmias may herald an impending heart attack.\n\nCough CPR has been the subject of a series of chain email campaigns. These emails are typically of the following format: (See Snopes for this and other citation issues.) \n\n"}
{"id": "33965397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33965397", "title": "Credit card kiting", "text": "Credit card kiting\n\nCredit card kiting refers to the use of one or more credit cards to obtain cash and purchasing power they do not have, or pay credit card balances with the proceeds of other cards. Unlike check kiting, which is illegal under nearly all circumstances, laws against credit card kiting are not completely prohibitive of the practice, thereby allowing it to be done to some degree. It is up to the banks to detect the practice and when necessary, stop it.\n\nIn order for prosecution to occur in a credit card kiting scheme, a bank must prove intent to deceive. Et seq. reference infers paying credit card minimum balances with credit card proceeds is de facto evidence of deceit.\n\nMany credit cards offer introductory rates, which in some cases, could be as low as 0% to which balances from other cards can be transferred. In theory, this enables the endless transfer of balances between cards, and since so many offers are available, this could be carried out for a long period of time. But many banks now have become aware of this practice, and introductory rates are offered only a limited number of times. In this case, the kiter is delaying legally due balances, and potentially, interest payable to the credit card bank.\n\nCash advances can be obtained from most credit cards, which can be used to pay off balances or loans. Though there are fees and higher interest rates for obtaining these loans, if a card has a high credit limit or no limit at all, this in theory could be used to pay off the previous balance while adding to the interest. In this case, the kiter is delaying legally due balances, and potentially, interest payable to the credit card bank; or, in the cited extreme case, using the credit card proceeds to earn interest at both banks' expense.\n\nMany payment services, such as PayPal and Square, allow people to receive credit card payments for low prices, which could be made to oneself. These could be used to pay off balances. In this case, the kiter is creating cash while avoiding legally entitled cash advance fees. This is a violation of PayPal and Square Terms of Service contracts and agreements.\n"}
{"id": "6093599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6093599", "title": "Darrell R. Lindsey", "text": "Darrell R. Lindsey\n\nDarrell Robins Lindsey (December 30, 1919 – August 9, 1944) was a bomber pilot in the U.S. Army Air Forces during World War II and a posthumous recipient of the Medal of Honor.\n\nLindsey was born in Jefferson, Iowa, to Jesse Lyle and Grace Alice Lindsey. After graduating from high school in Fort Dodge in 1938, he attended Buena Vista University in Storm Lake for one year before transferring to Drake University in Des Moines. He enlisted as an aviation cadet at Fort Des Moines on January 16, 1942. He trained at Visalia, Lemoore and Victorville Fields in California, receiving his pilot's wings and commission as a second lieutenant in August 1942.\n\nLindsey was also trained as a bombardier at Kirtland Field, New Mexico, and in 1943 was assigned to the 314th Bomb Squadron at MacDill Field, Florida, with the rank of first lieutenant. He was transferred to Kellogg Field, Michigan, in September 1943, and assigned to the 585th Bomb Squadron, 394th Bomb Group (Medium), a B-26 Marauder outfit. Promoted to captain in December, he was assigned as a flight commander.\n\nAs part of the Ninth Air Force the 394th Bomb Group was deployed to RAF Boreham, England, on March 11, 1944, and immediately participated in the bombing of bridges, airfields and the rail system in France in preparation for the cross-channel invasion. On D-Day, the group attacked gun positions in Cherbourg, then continued to support Allied ground units in Normandy by attacking German lines of communication. In late July, the group changed bases to RAF Holmsley South in preparation for a move to the continent, and on August 7, 1944, began a three-day campaign against rail and bridge targets in the Île-de-France region of northern France for which the group as a whole received a Distinguished Unit Citation.\n\nOn August 9, Captain Lindsey, a veteran of 45 combat missions, flew as group leader to destroy the railroad bridge over the Seine River at L'Isle Adam northwest of Paris. The bridge, one of the last over the Seine still standing, was heavily defended by German anti-aircraft units.\n\nLeading a formation of 30 aircraft, Lindsey's B-26 was heavily damaged and both the right engine and wing set afire during the bombing run. Although knocked out of formation, Lindsey recovered his place and led the group over the target, then stabilized the aircraft so that his crew could parachute. According to the crew's bombardier, Lindsey severely lessened his own chance to escape to prevent the aircraft from spinning, which proved fatal when a fuel tank exploded just after the last crewman exited the aircraft. Captain Lindsey's body was not recovered and he was listed as missing-in-action and presumed killed.\n\nOn May 30, 1945, Lindsey was awarded the Medal of Honor, accepted by his widow, Evalyn Scott Lindsey Rhinehart (1919–1992) during an August 9, 1945, ceremony at First Presbyterian Church in Fort Dodge. In November 1946, Lindsey Air Station, Wiesbaden Air Base, Germany, was named in his memory and served as the location of the Headquarters for the United States Air Forces in Europe. The station closed in 1993 and a red granite monument there was returned to Jefferson, Iowa, and placed on the lawn of the Greene County Courthouse, where it was dedicated to Lindsey on June 12, 1993.\n\nOn the following day at Lindsey's \"alma mater\", Buena Vista University, another memorial was dedicated to Lindsey and Ralph Neppel, also a recipient of the Medal of Honor who had attended Buena Vista. The memorial was donated by Judge Charles Pendleton, a BVU alumnus. Judge Pendleton had earlier made a donation in the memory of Evalyn Rhinehart, who had recently died (August 17, 1992) in a motor vehicle accident, and the wife of a fellow alumnus, Dr. Bruce L. Rhinehart (1922–2010). Pendleton learned that she had been the widow of Darrell Lindsey, and that Lindsey's monument was being returned from Germany. Together, Pendleton and Rhinehart also began the Lindsey-Neppel Scholarship at Buena Vista in 1993.\n\nOn August 9, 1944, Capt. Lindsey led a formation of 30 B-26 medium bombers in a hazardous mission to destroy the strategic enemy held L'Isle Adam railroad bridge over the Seine in occupied France. With most of the bridges over the Seine destroyed, the heavily fortified L'Isle Adam bridge was of inestimable value to the enemy in moving troops, supplies, and equipment to Paris. Capt. Lindsey was fully aware of the fierce resistance that would be encountered. Shortly after reaching enemy territory the formation was buffeted with heavy and accurate antiaircraft fire. By skillful evasive action, Capt. Lindsey was able to elude much of the enemy flak, but just before entering the bombing run his B-26 was peppered with holes. During the bombing run the enemy fire was even more intense, and Capt. Lindsey's right engine received a direct hit and burst into flames. Despite the fact that his ship was hurled out of formation by the violence of the concussion, Capt. Lindsey brilliantly maneuvered back into the lead position without disrupting the flight. Fully aware that the gasoline tanks might explode at any moment, Capt. Lindsey gallantly elected to continue the perilous bombing run. With fire streaming from his right engine and his right wing half enveloped in flames, he led his formation over the target upon which the bombs were dropped with telling effect. Immediately after the objective was attacked, Capt. Lindsey gave the order for the crew to parachute from the doomed aircraft. With magnificent coolness and superb piloting, and without regard for his own life, he held the swiftly descending airplane in a steady glide until the members of the crew could jump to safety. With the right wing completely enveloped in flames and an explosion of the gasoline tank imminent, Capt. Lindsey still remained unperturbed. The last man to leave the stricken plane was the bombardier, who offered to lower the wheels so that Capt. Lindsey might escape from the nose. Realizing that this might throw the aircraft into an uncontrollable spin and jeopardize the bombardier's chances to escape, Capt. Lindsey refused the offer. Immediately after the bombardier had bailed out, and before Capt. Lindsey was able to follow, the right gasoline tank exploded. The aircraft sheathed in fire, went into a steep dive and was seen to explode as it crashed. All who are living today from this plane owe their lives to the fact that Capt. Lindsey remained cool and showed supreme courage in this emergency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57093897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57093897", "title": "Design Commons", "text": "Design Commons\n\nDesign Commons is a deconstructed conference founded by the CEO of Interactive Africa, Ravi Naidoo in collaboration with World Design Weeks founder Kari Korkman. The event was established in 2017 and acts as a travelling discussion platform on the future of cities.\n\nUnlike the conventional conference format, Design Commons places stakeholders in urban planning and public space at the same table as notable designers to foster a sense of common ground and find solutions to some of the world's pressing issues.\n\nThe first Design Commons event took place in Clarion Congress Centre, Helsinki as part of the World Design Weeks summit from 14 to 15 September 2017.\n\nNotable speakers include architect David Adjaye, Dutch architect Winy Maas, Finnish technology entrepreneur Marko Ahtisaari, Dutch landscape architect Cees van der Veeken and Studio Swine, a collaboration between Japanese architect Azusa Murakami and British artist Alexander Groves.\n\nThe event is open to the public and is partially released as a video series on the Design Indaba website.\n"}
{"id": "4065630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4065630", "title": "Dhammayietra", "text": "Dhammayietra\n\nThe Dhammayietra (, \"pilgrimage\") is an annual peace walk in Cambodia that originated during the historic repatriation of refugees along the Thai border camps during the United Nations monitored transition to democracy in 1992. The Khmer word \"dhammayietra\", derived from Pāli, \"dhamma\" (dharma) and Sanskrit \"yātrā\" (\"a walk\", \"procession\"), means \"pilgrimage\" but is often translated as \"pilgrimage of truth\". The peace walk takes place in early May and usually involves an assemblage of Buddhist monks and lay persons who travel various routes in Cambodia.\n\nThe assemblage is often greeted by villagers along the route who expect a blessing (\"teuk mon\" or blessing with lustral water). The founder of the Dhammayietra was Maha Ghosananda (), a Buddhist monk who ranked among the higher echelons of the Cambodian sangha; he led the first Dhammayietra as he returned from exile following the war.\n\nIn 1995, the Dhammayietra consisted of almost 500 Cambodian Buddhist monks, nuns and precept-taking lay people. They were joined by The Interfaith Pilgrimage for Peace and Life. Together the two groups crossed Cambodia from the Thai border all the way to Vietnam, spending several days walking through Khmer Rouge controlled territory along the way.\n\nThe 1997 Dhammayietra marched from Battambang to Pailin, which was at the time controlled by the Khmer Rouge, and on to Banteay Chhmar in Banteay Meanchey Province. The Khmer Rouge banned monks from their territory in Pailin and prohibited the open practice of religion until 1996 when the majority of Khmer Rouge distanced themselves from Pol Pot and declared Ieng Sary their new leader. After this mass defection, monks were tolerated in the area. The 1994 Dhammayietra, which also aimed to march through Pailin failed to reach its destination due to heavy fighting in the province. In Pailin, Ghosananda briefly met with Ieng Sary who respectfully received a blessing but did not attend the official ceremonies. The march, which took place just months before the 1997 Cambodian Coup, was unexpectedly joined in Pailin, for 15 kilometers, by Sam Rainsy and his numerous bodyguards. Rainsy used the opportunity to criticize the absence of the two Prime Ministers, Hun Sen and Prince Norodom Ranariddh, who unbeknownst at the time, were embroiled in tensions that would soon erupt into armed fighting between the two and their supporters for control of the government.\n"}
{"id": "39082454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39082454", "title": "Dubrava Prison bombings and executions", "text": "Dubrava Prison bombings and executions\n\nDubrava Prison massacre is the war time killing of at least 99 Kosovo Albanian prisoners and the wounding of around 200 prisoners in the Dubrava Prison, in north-western Kosovo between the dates of 22–24 May 1999.\n\nTargeting Yugoslav and Serb forces nearby NATO bombed the prison on May 19 and May 21, 1999. On May 22, Serbian security forces lined up the approximately 1,000 prisoners in the courtyard and fired on them with snipers, machine guns, and grenades from the prison walls and guard towers, killing at least seventy people. At least another twelve prisoners were killed over the next twenty-four hours as prison guards, special police, and possibly paramilitaries attacked prisoners who were hiding in the prison's destroyed buildings, basements, and sewers. The injured were taken away in trucks, while the remaining prisoners were transported to Lipjan prison, where they were beaten. On June 10, they were transferred and held in prisons in Serbia after the war had ended.\n\nConsistency of witness testimony, with specific details about times and locations, leaves no doubt that Serbian and possibly Yugoslav government forces deliberately and without need killed a substantial number of ethnic Albanians in the prison.\n\nDubrava prison was Kosovo's largest detention facility. Located a few miles east of Istok in north-western Kosovo (Metohija region), near the frontier with Montenegro, the prison had three pavilions with a capacity of more than 1,000 prisoners. The inmates were suspected KLA and common criminals. As with all of Kosovo's detention facilities, credible reports of torture and abuse emanated from Dubrava prison throughout 1998 and early 1999.\n\nDefense lawyers reported restricted access to their clients in Dubrava, and the Kosovo Verification Mission was never allowed access to the prison. There were many complaints of torture and beatings from people held in this prison. Injuries ranged from broken bones to permanent kidney failure. It is believed that at least four or five men died as a result of beatings sustained while they were detained at the prison between October 1998 and March 1999. A witness told HRW prison guards beat the prisoners every day once the NATO bombing began.\n\nOne former prisoner transferred to Dubrava on April 30, said that approximately 165 ethnic Albanians from Gjakova were brought to Dubrava a short time after he had arrived. This was confirmed during the April–May 2000 trial in Niš of 143 Albanians arrested in Gjakova in May 1999, who testified that they had been transferred from Gjakova to prisons in Peć, Lipljan, and Dubrava.\n\nAmong the ethnic Albanians in Dubrava was one of Kosovo's most prominent political prisoners, Ukshin Hoti, who was finishing the last year of a five-year sentence. Three witnesses said that Hoti was released from Dubrava on 16 May because his sentence expired. His current whereabouts, however, are unknown, and many former prisoners and human rights activists fear that he is dead.\n\nWitnesses before International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) have testified that Yugoslav army tanks and anti-aircraft cannons had been placed round the jail, which in April were hit by NATO aircraft. Some former prisoners claim that they saw anti-aircraft fire coming from near the prison during the NATO bombing.\n\nNATO bombed what it claimed to be Yugoslav Army and Serbian police forces near the prison at 1:15 p.m. on 19 May killing four and wounding two civilians. The prisoners spent the next two nights sleeping outside, but within the walls of the prison. On 21 May, prison guards ordered the prisoners to line up in the courtyard, however, the process was interrupted when NATO planes flew over. Initially, the NATO claimed that the prison was a military barracks.\n\nThe next day, Tanjug (state news agency for FR Yugoslavia) reported 19 prisoners and guards killed and more than ten wounded. The victims of the bombings, at least 23, were KLA members. The Yugoslav government claimed 85 civilian deaths, while HRW determined ca. 18 deaths. Another source stated that 95 were killed and 196 injured.\n\nInmates were extrajudicially killed or summary executed on 22 and 23 May.\n\nWitnesses before ICTY stated that on the early morning of 22 May 1999 the prisoners were told to line up on the sports field, with the explanation that they were to be transferred to other more secure prisons. About 800 prisoners obeyed while the rest hid themselves in the jail. After the prisoners formed a line, police started firing from the guard tower and the jail walls, using hand grenades, bazookas and automatic weapons. The witnesses said about 20 officers opened fire. What ensued was total chaos with prisoners falling down all over the place. Witness testimony with details of times and locations indicates that government forces executed a substantial number of ethnic Albanians in the prison.\n\nOther witnesses testified that on the fateful day prison officials ordered the approximately 1,000 prisoners to line up in the prison yard. After a few minutes, they were fired upon from the prison walls and guard towers with machine guns and grenades, killing at least seventy people. Another number is 67. Over the next twenty-four hours, prison guards, special police, and possibly paramilitaries attacked prisoners who were hiding in the prison's buildings, basements, and sewers, killing at least another twelve inmates.\n\nIn 2011 the Republic of Kosovo Member of Parliament and witness to the massacre Nait Hasani stated:\n\nA witness told Human Rights Watch:\n\nAnother recalled:\n\nChaos ensued as prisoners ran for cover in the various buildings of the prison, their basements, or the prison's sewer system. That evening, all of the witnesses say, a group of special police or paramilitaries entered the prison and tried to reassert control. The assault lasted approximately twenty minutes, during which time hand grenades were thrown into the school building, allegedly killing at least two people. The prisoners remained hidden during the night, some of them preparing to defend themselves with makeshift weapons made from broken furniture or garden tools. The wounded numbering about 120 to 150 were placed in the Pavilion C basement. The following morning of May 23, the witnesses said, new soldiers or paramilitary units came to the jail, opened the drains and threw in hand grenades. That day four people went crazy and hanged themselves in their cells.\n\nA witness told Human Rights Watch:\n\nLater in the morning, the security forces had reasserted some control over the prison, and they issued an ultimatum for the prisoners to emerge from their hiding places within fifteen minutes. With no other options, the prisoners revealed themselves, and were then gathered in the prison's sports hall, which was still undamaged. According to the witnesses, Yugoslav Army soldiers were present this time.\n\nThe injured were taken away in trucks, while the remaining prisoners were transported in approximately ten buses to Lipljan prison in south-central Kosovo. All of the former prisoners claimed to have been beaten in Lipjan. All of the ethnic Albanian prisoners in Lipljan were transferred to prisons in Central Serbia. The Yugoslav government claimed NATO bombs had killed 95 inmates and injured 196. As the prisoners got on buses, the police counted those missing. It came to 154, witnesses stated.\n\nJacky Rowland, a BBC journalist who was escorted by the Yugoslav government to the prison, testified before the ICTY seeing a prison room in with about 25 bodies piled up in one place. In addition to the fact that there was no visible damage from bombing in that room, Rowland was \"especially disturbed\" by the fact that the corpses had their trousers pulled down to the ankles, so that their underwear was visible, ruling out death due to blast effect.\n\nSince all of the survivors of the massacre were transferred to prisons in Central Serbia after the attack, accounts of the killings did not emerge until after the war when some of the prisoners were released. In June 1999, Spanish NATO troops discovered one body in the prison, who had been lying there at least one month, his throat was cut.\n\nOn 13 August, a Spanish forensic team began exhuming 97 graves that were found near Dubrava prison. A legal advisor to the ICTY, Karl Koenig, stated that the bodies appeared to have been there since 26 or 27 May. In her 10 November 1999 report to the U.N. Security Council, ICTY chief prosecutor Carla Del Ponte said that 97 bodies had been found at the Rakosh site.\n\nA New York Times reporter who visited the prison in November 1999 witnessed: \"basements of the buildings, the blood lies still sticky on the floor, bullet holes scar the walls, and impact marks of grenade explosions crater the floors.\".\n\nThe Serbian police in Istok were under the jurisdiction of the Secretariat of Internal Affairs (SUP) in Peć, which covered the municipalities of Peć, Klina, and Istok. The commander of the Peć SUP during the war was Col. Boro Vlahović.\n\nJournalist Paul Watson, who visited Dubrava on 19 May and 21 May quoted one official from the prison, Aleksandar Rakočević, whom he identified as a warden.\n\nTwo former prisoners who spoke with Human Rights Watch (HRW) said that the director of the prison was known as \"Miki\", a dark-skinned man who spoke perfect Albanian. According to a witness, the deputy director was known as \"Ace\" and he was the one who allegedly gave the order to fire on the assembled prisoners on May 22.\n\nAlbanian prisoners that spoke to HRW claimed that the prison guards had released and armed some of the ethnic Serbian prisoners after the first NATO raid on May 19. Both witnesses said they saw some of these people back in the prison attacking the Albanians with whom they had, until recently, been incarcerated.\n\nAnother former Dubrava prisoner, Kosovo MP Ukë Thaçi, is convinced that the Dubrava killings were an \"organized massacre through prison staff, police and army ... it was a Serbian state planning ..., because Serbian police and army were located within the prison facilities.\"\n\nThe fact that the Peć SUP, which after the war had been moved to Serbia, compiled a report on the killing of prisoners in the Dubrava prison three years after the event, was interpreted by the ICTY prosecutor as having the purpose to help the defense of Slobodan Milošević.\n"}
{"id": "10998634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10998634", "title": "Ely Eel Day", "text": "Ely Eel Day\n\nEly Eel Day is an annual celebration observed by people from Ely, Cambridgeshire to celebrate the city's namesake — the eel. The celebrations start with a parade which begins from Cross Green outside Ely Cathedral and proceeds through the city to the Jubilee Gardens, passing by the Market Square and along the River Great Ouse at Ely's Waterside.\n\nThe celebrations following the parade include an eel throwing competition. The competition does not use real eels. Originally competitors were given socks rolled into some tights with rice in the end to weight it down but now the competition uses specially made toy eels. Other events on Eel Day include an annual competition for Town Criers.\n\nIt is traditional for any couples marrying that weekend to be named 'the King of Eels' and 'the Queen of Eels'. Legend goes that eels bring good luck for married life. Accordingly, the City of Ely will send couples married that weekend a hamper of eels each year on their anniversary. As part of the Eel Parade, the Queen of Eels must march ahead of the various floats and processions on a carriage, wearing a crown of (live) eels.\n\nEel Day is traditionally held on the Saturday, of the May Bank Holiday weekend.\n\n"}
{"id": "10110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10110", "title": "Emperor of Japan", "text": "Emperor of Japan\n\nThe Emperor of Japan is the head of the Imperial Family and the head of state of Japan. Under the 1947 constitution, he is defined as \"the symbol of the State and of the unity of the people.\" Historically, he was also the highest authority of the Shinto religion. In Japanese, the Emperor is called , literally \"heavenly sovereign\". In English, the use of the term for the Emperor was once common, but is now considered obsolete.\n\nCurrently, the Emperor of Japan is the only head of state in the world with the English title of \"Emperor\". The Imperial House of Japan is the oldest continuing monarchical house in the world. The historical origins of the Emperors lie in the late Kofun period of the 3rd–7th centuries AD, but according to the traditional account of the \"Kojiki\" (finished 712) and \"Nihon Shoki\" (finished 720), Japan was founded in 660 BC by Emperor Jimmu, who was said to be a direct descendant of the sun-goddess Amaterasu. The current Emperor is Akihito. He acceded to the Chrysanthemum Throne upon the death of his father, Emperor Shōwa (Hirohito), in 1989. The Japanese government announced in December 2017 that Akihito will abdicate on 30 April 2019.\n\nThe role of the Emperor of Japan has historically alternated between a largely ceremonial symbolic role and that of an actual imperial ruler. Since the establishment of the first shogunate in 1199, the Emperors of Japan have rarely taken on a role as supreme battlefield commander, unlike many Western monarchs. Japanese Emperors have nearly always been controlled by external political forces, to varying degrees. In fact, between 1192 and 1867, the \"shōguns\", or their \"shikken\" regents in Kamakura (1203–1333), were the \"de facto\" rulers of Japan, although they were nominally appointed by the Emperor. After the Meiji Restoration in 1867, the Emperor was the embodiment of all sovereign power in the realm, as enshrined in the Meiji Constitution of 1889. Since the enactment of the 1947 Constitution, he has been a ceremonial head of state without even nominal political powers.\n\nSince the mid-nineteenth century, the Imperial Palace has been called \"Kyūjō\" (), later \"Kōkyo\" (), and is on the former site of Edo Castle in the heart of Tokyo (the current capital of Japan). Earlier, Emperors resided in Kyoto (the ancient capital) for nearly eleven centuries. The Emperor's Birthday (currently December 23) is a national holiday.\n\nUnlike most constitutional monarchs, the Emperor is not even the \"nominal\" chief executive. explicitly vests executive power in the Cabinet, of which the Prime Minister is the leader. The Emperor is also not the commander-in-chief of the Japan Self-Defense Forces. The Japan Self-Defense Forces Act of 1954 also explicitly vests this role with the Prime Minister.\n\nThe Emperor's powers are limited only to important ceremonial functions. of the Constitution stipulates that the Emperor \"shall perform only such acts in matters of state as are provided for in the Constitution and he shall not have powers related to government.\" It also stipulates that \"the advice and approval of the Cabinet shall be required for all acts of the Emperor in matters of state\" (Article 3). Article 4 also states that these duties can be delegated by the Emperor as provided for by law.\n\nWhile the Emperor formally appoints the Prime Minister to office, Article 6 of the Constitution requires him to appoint the candidate \"as designated by the Diet\", without giving the Emperor the right to decline appointment.\n\n\nThe Emperor's other duties are laid down in article 7 of the Constitution, where it is stated that \"the Emperor, with the advice and approval of the Cabinet, shall perform the following acts in matters of state on behalf of the people.\" In practice, all of these duties are exercised only in accordance with the binding instructions of the Cabinet:\n\nRegular ceremonies of the Emperor with a constitutional basis are the Imperial Investitures \"(Shinninshiki)\" in the Tokyo Imperial Palace and the Speech from the Throne ceremony in the House of Councillors in the National Diet Building. The latter ceremony opens ordinary and extra sessions of the Diet. Ordinary sessions are opened each January and also after new elections to the House of Representatives. Extra sessions usually convene in the autumn and are opened then.\n\nAlthough the Emperor has been a symbol of continuity with the past, the degree of power exercised by the Emperor has varied considerably throughout Japanese history. In the early 7th century, the Emperor had begun to be called the .\n\nThe title of Emperor was borrowed from China, being derived from Chinese characters and was retroactively applied to the legendary Japanese rulers who reigned before the 7th–8th centuries AD.\n\nAccording to the traditional account of the Nihon Shoki, Japan was founded by Emperor Jimmu in 660 BC. Modern historians agree that the Emperors before the possible late 3rd century AD ruler known traditionally as Emperor Ōjin are legendary. Emperor Ankō of the 5th century AD, traditionally the 20th emperor, is the earliest generally agreed upon historical ruler of all or a part of Japan. The reign of Emperor Kinmei ( – 571 AD), the 29th emperor, is the first for which contemporary historiography is able to assign verifiable dates; however, the conventionally accepted names and dates of the early emperors were not to be confirmed as \"traditional\" until the reign of Emperor Kanmu (737–806), the 50th sovereign of the Yamato dynasty.\n\nArchaeological information about the earliest historical rulers of Japan may lie within the ancient tombs known as kofun, constructed between the early 3rd century and the early 7th century AD. However, since the Meiji period, the Imperial Household Agency has refused to open the kofun to the public nor to archaeologists, citing their desire not to disturb the spirits of the past Emperors. In December 2006, the Imperial Household Agency reversed its position and decided to allow researchers to enter some of the kofun with no restrictions.\n\nThere have been six non-imperial families who have controlled Japanese emperors: the Soga (530s–645), the Fujiwara (850s–1070), the Taira (1159-1180s), the Minamoto (and Kamakura bakufu) (1192–1333), the Ashikaga (1336–1565), and the Tokugawa (1603–1867). However, every shogun from the Minamoto, Ashikaga, and Tokugawa families had to be officially recognized by the Emperors, who were still the source of sovereignty, although they could not exercise their powers independently from the Shogunate.\n\nThe growth of the samurai class from the 10th century gradually weakened the power of the imperial family over the realm, leading to a time of instability. Emperors have been known to come into conflict with the reigning shogun from time to time. Some instances, such as Emperor Go-Toba's 1221 rebellion against the Kamakura shogunate and the 1336 Kenmu Restoration under Emperor Go-Daigo, show the power struggle between the imperial court and the military governments of Japan.\n\nUntil recent centuries, Japan's territory did not include several remote regions of its modern-day territory. The name \"Nippon\" came into use only many centuries after the start of the current imperial line. Centralized government only began to appear shortly before and during the time of Prince Shōtoku (572–622). The Emperor was more like a revered embodiment of divine harmony than the head of an actual governing administration. In Japan, it has always been easy for ambitious lords to hold actual power, as such positions have not been inherently contradictory to the Emperor's position. The parliamentary government today continues a similar coexistence with the Emperor as have various shoguns, regents, warlords, guardians, etc.\n\nHistorically the titles of \"Tennō\" in Japanese have never included territorial designations as is the case with many European monarchs. The position of Emperor is a territory-independent phenomenon—the Emperor is the Emperor, even if he has followers only in one province (as was the case sometimes with the southern and northern courts).\n\nFrom 1192 to 1867, sovereignty of the state was exercised by the \"shōguns\", or their \"shikken\" regents (1203–1333), whose authority was conferred by Imperial warrant. When Portuguese explorers first came into contact with the Japanese (see \"Nanban period\"), they described Japanese conditions in analogy, likening the Emperor with great symbolic authority but little political power, to the Pope, and the \"shōgun\" to secular European rulers (e.g., the Holy Roman Emperor). In keeping with the analogy, they even used the term \"Emperor\" in reference to the \"shōguns\" and their regents, e.g. in the case of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, whom missionaries called \"Emperor Taico-sama\" (from Taikō and the honorific \"sama\").\n\nAfter the United States Navy Commodore Matthew C. Perry's Black Ships forcibly opened Japan to foreign trade, and the shogunate proved incapable of hindering the \"barbarian\" interlopers, the Emperor Kōmei began to assert himself politically. By the early 1860s, the relationship between the imperial court and the Shogunate was changing radically. Disaffected domains and \"rōnin\" began to rally to the call of \"sonnō jōi\" (\"revere the Emperor, expel the barbarians\"). The domains of Satsuma and Chōshū, historic enemies of the Tokugawa, used this turmoil to unite their forces and won an important military victory outside of Kyoto against Tokugawa forces.\n\nIn 1868, imperial \"restoration\" was declared, and the Shogunate was dissolved. A new constitution described the Emperor as \"the head of the Empire, combining in Himself the rights of sovereignty\", whose rights included to sanction and promulgate laws, to execute them and to exercise \"supreme command of the Army and the Navy\". The liaison conference created in 1893 also made the Emperor the leader of the Imperial General Headquarters.\n\nThe role of the Emperor as head of the State Shinto religion was exploited during the war, creating an Imperial cult that led to kamikaze bombers and other fanaticism. This in turn led to the requirement in the Potsdam Declaration for the elimination \"for all time [of] the authority and influence of those who have deceived and misled the people of Japan into embarking on world conquest\". In State Shinto, the Emperor was believed to be a Arahitogami (a living god). Following Japan's surrender, the Allies issued the Shinto Directive separating church and state within Japan.\n\nThe constitution provides for a parliamentary system of government and guarantees certain fundamental rights. Under its terms, the Emperor of Japan is \"the symbol of the State and of the unity of the people\" and exercises a purely ceremonial role without the possession of sovereignty.\n\nThe constitution, also known as the , or the , was drawn up under the Allied occupation that followed World War II and was intended to replace Japan's previous militaristic and quasi-absolute monarchy system with a form of liberal democracy. Currently, it is a rigid document and no subsequent amendment has been made to it since its adoption.\n\nIn Japanese mythology, according to \"Kojiki\" and \"Nihon Shoki\", the Emperor and his family are said to be direct descendants of the sun-goddess Amaterasu. During World War II, the role of the Emperor as head of the Shinto religion was exploited, which resulted in the creation of State Shinto and an Imperial cult. Following the end of the Second World War, the Allies issued the Shinto Directive which abolished the state support for the Shinto religion, leading to the Humanity Declaration of the incumbent Emperor which refuted the idea that the Emperor is a living divine being, and dismissed the importance of \"myths and legends\" for the Emperor's status. However, the Emperors have continued to perform many traditional ceremonies privately.\n\nThe Emperors traditionally had an education officer. In recent times, Emperor Taishō had Count Nogi Maresuke, Emperor Shōwa had Marshal-Admiral Marquis Tōgō Heihachirō, and Emperor Akihito had Elizabeth Gray Vining as well as as their tutors.\n\nThere are two Japanese words equivalent to the English word \"Emperor\": \"tennō\" (, \"heavenly sovereign\"), which is used exclusively to refer to the Emperor of Japan, and \"kōtei\" (皇帝, the title used for all other foreign Emperors), which is used primarily to describe non-Japanese Emperors. \"Sumeramikoto\" (\"the Imperial person\") was also used in Old Japanese. The term \"tennō\" was used by the Emperors up until the Middle Ages; then, following a period of disuse, it was used again from the 19th century. In English, the term \"mikado\" ( or ), literally meaning \"the honorable gate\" (i.e. the gate of the imperial palace, which indicates the person who lives in and possesses the palace), was once used (as in \"The Mikado\", a 19th-century operetta), but this term is now obsolete. (Compare Sublime Porte, an old term for the Ottoman government.)\n\nTraditionally, the Japanese considered it disrespectful to call any person by his given name, and more so for a person of noble rank. This convention is only slightly relaxed in the modern age and it is still inadvisable among friends to use the given name, use of the family name being the common form of address. In the case of the imperial family, it is considered extremely inappropriate to use the given name. Since Emperor Meiji, it has been customary to have one era per Emperor and to rename each Emperor after his death using the name of the era over which he presided. Before Emperor Meiji, the names of the eras were changed more frequently, and the posthumous names of the Emperors were chosen differently.\n\nOutside Japan, the previous Emperor is usually called Hirohito in English, although he was never referred to as Hirohito in Japan, and was renamed \"Shōwa Tennō\" after his death, which is the only name that Japanese speakers currently use when referring to him.\n\nThe current Emperor on the throne is typically referred to as \"Tennō Heika\" (, \"His (Imperial) Majesty the Emperor\"), \"Kinjō Heika\" (, \"His Current Majesty\") or simply \"Tennō\", when speaking Japanese. The current Emperor will be renamed \"Daijō Tennō\" (, Retired Emperor), often shortened to \"Jōkō\" (), upon his planned retirement on 30 April 2019, and renamed \"Heisei Tennō\" () after his death and will then be referred to exclusively by that name in Japanese. In Japanese culture, it is considered a major faux pas to refer to a living Emperor by his posthumous name, although the posthumous name is the same as the era, which is used in official documents.\n\nOriginally, the ruler of Japan was known as either / (Yamato-ōkimi, Grand King of Yamato), / (\"Wa-ō\"/\"Wakoku-ō\", King of Wa, used externally) or (\"Ame-no-shita shiroshimesu ōkimi\" or \"Sumera no mikoto\", Grand King who rules all under heaven, used internally) in Japanese and Chinese sources before the 7th century. The oldest documented use of the word \"Tennō\" is on a wooden slat, or \"mokkan\", that was unearthed in Asuka-mura, Nara Prefecture in 1998 and dated back to the reign of Emperor Tenmu and Empress Jitō.\n\nThroughout history, Japanese Emperors and noblemen appointed the position of chief wife, rather than just keeping a harem or an assortment of female attendants.\n\nThe Japanese imperial dynasty consistently practiced official polygamy, a practice that only ended in the Taishō period (1912–1926). Besides the Empress, the Emperor could take, and nearly always took, several secondary consorts (\"concubines\") of various hierarchical degrees. Concubines were allowed also to other dynasts (Shinnōke, Ōke). After a decree by Emperor Ichijō, some Emperors even had two empresses simultaneously (\"kōgō\" and \"chūgū\" are the two separate titles for that situation). With the help of all this polygamy, the imperial clan thus was capable of producing more offspring. (Sons by secondary consorts were usually recognized as imperial princes, too, and could be recognized as heir to the throne if the empress did not give birth to an heir.)\n\nOf the eight female Tennō (reigning empresses) of Japan, none married or gave birth after ascending the throne. Some of them, being widows, had produced children before their reigns.\n\nIn the succession, children of the empress were preferred over sons of secondary consorts. Thus it was significant which quarters had preferential opportunities in providing chief wives to imperial princes, i.e. supplying future empresses.\n\nApparently, the oldest tradition of official marriages within the imperial dynasty were marriages between dynasty members, even half-siblings or uncle and niece. Such marriages were deemed to preserve better the imperial blood or were aimed at producing children symbolic of a reconciliation between two branches of the imperial dynasty. Daughters of others remained concubines, until Emperor Shōmu (701–706) – in what was specifically reported as the first elevation of its kind – elevated his Fujiwara consort Empress Kōmyō to chief wife.\n\nJapanese monarchs have been, as much as others elsewhere, dependent on making alliances with powerful chiefs and other monarchs. Many such alliances were sealed by marriages. The specific feature in Japan has been the fact that these marriages have been soon incorporated as elements of tradition which controlled the marriages of later generations, though the original practical alliance had lost its real meaning. A repeated pattern has been an imperial son-in-law under the influence of his powerful non-imperial father-in-law.\n\nBeginning from the 7th and 8th centuries, Emperors primarily took women of the Fujiwara clan as their highest wives — the most probable mothers of future monarchs. This was cloaked as a tradition of marriage between heirs of two \"kami\" (Shinto deities): descendants of Amaterasu with descendants of the family \"kami\" of the Fujiwara. (Originally, the Fujiwara were descended from relatively minor nobility, thus their \"kami\" is an unremarkable one in the Japanese myth world.) To produce imperial children, heirs of the nation, with two-side descent from the two kami, was regarded as desirable — or at least it suited powerful Fujiwara lords, who thus received preference in the imperial marriage market. The reality behind such marriages was an alliance between an imperial prince and a Fujiwara lord, his father-in-law or grandfather, the latter with his resources supporting the prince to the throne and most often controlling the government. These arrangements created the tradition of regents (Sesshō and Kampaku), with these positions held only by a Fujiwara sekke lord.\n\nEarlier, the Emperors had married women from families of the government-holding Soga lords, and women of the imperial clan itself, i.e. various-degree cousins and often even their own sisters (half-sisters). Several imperials of the 5th and 6th centuries such as Prince Shōtoku were children of half-sibling couples. These marriages often were alliance or succession devices: the Soga lord ensured his domination of a prince who would be put on the throne as a puppet; or a prince ensured the combination of two imperial descents, to strengthen his own and his children's claim to the throne. Marriages were also a means to seal a reconciliation between two imperial branches.\n\nAfter a couple of centuries, Emperors could no longer take anyone from outside such families as primary wife, no matter what the expediency of such a marriage and power or wealth brought by such might have been. Only very rarely did a prince ascend the throne whose mother was not descended from the approved families. The earlier necessity and expediency had mutated into a strict tradition that did not allow for current expediency or necessity, but only dictated that daughters of a restricted circle of families were eligible brides, because they had produced eligible brides for centuries. Tradition had become more forceful than law.\n\nFujiwara women were often Empresses, and concubines came from less exalted noble families. In the last thousand years, sons of an imperial male and a Fujiwara woman have been preferred in the succession.\n\nThe five Fujiwara families, Ichijō, Kujō, Nijō, Konoe, and Takatsukasa, were the primary source of imperial brides from the 8th century to the 19th century, even more often than daughters of the imperial clan itself. Fujiwara daughters were thus the usual empresses and mothers of Emperors.\n\nThis restriction on brides for the Emperor and crown prince was made explicit in the Meiji-era Imperial House Law of 1889. A clause stipulated that daughters of Sekke (the five main branches of the higher Fujiwara) and daughters of the imperial clan itself were primarily acceptable brides.\n\nThe law was repealed in the aftermath of World War II. The present Emperor, Akihito, became the first crown prince for over a thousand years to marry a consort from outside the previously eligible circle.\n\nDuring the Kofun period, so-called \"archaic funerals\" were held for the dead Emperors, but only the funerary rites from the end of the period, which the chronicles describe in more detail, are known. They were centered around the rite of the \"mogari\" (), a provisional depository between death and permanent burial.\n\nEmpress Jitō was the first Japanese imperial personage to be cremated (in 703). After that, with a few exceptions, all Emperors were cremated up to the Edo period. For the next 350 years, in-ground burial became the favoured funeral custom. In 2013, the Imperial Household Agency announced that Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko would be cremated after they die.\n\nUntil 1912, the Emperors of Japan were usually buried in Kyoto. From the Taishō Emperor onward, the Emperors have been buried at the Musashi Imperial Graveyard in Tokyo.\n\nThe Japanese imperial dynasty bases its position in the expression that it has \"reigned since time immemorial\" ( \"bansei ikkei\"). It is true that its origins are buried in the mists of time: there are no records of any Emperor who was not said to have been a descendant of other, yet earlier Emperors. There is suspicion that Emperor Keitai (c. 500 AD) may have been an unrelated outsider, though the sources state that he was a male-line descendant of Emperor Ōjin. However, his descendants, including his successors, were according to records descended from at least one and probably several imperial princesses of the older lineage. The tradition built by those legends has chosen to recognize just the putative male ancestry as valid for legitimizing his succession, not giving any weight to ties through the said princesses.\n\nMillennia ago, the Japanese imperial family developed its own peculiar system of hereditary succession. It has been non-primogenitural, more or less agnatic, based mostly on rotation. Today, Japan uses strict agnatic primogeniture, which was adopted from Prussia, by which Japan was greatly influenced in the 1870s.\n\nThe controlling principles and their interaction were apparently very complex and sophisticated, leading to even idiosyncratic outcomes. Some chief principles apparent in the succession have been:\n\nHistorically, the succession to the Chrysanthemum Throne has always passed to descendants in male line from the imperial lineage. Generally, they have been males, though over the reign of one hundred monarchs there have been nine women (one pre-historical and eight historical) as Emperor on eleven occasions.\n\nOver a thousand years ago, a tradition started that an Emperor should ascend relatively young. A dynast who had passed his toddler years was regarded suitable and old enough. Reaching the age of legal majority was not a requirement. Thus, a multitude of Japanese Emperors have ascended as children, as young as 6 or 8 years old. The high-priestly duties were deemed possible for a walking child. A reign of around ten years was regarded a sufficient service. Being a child was apparently a fine property, to better endure tedious duties and to tolerate subjugation to political power-brokers, as well as sometimes to cloak the truly powerful members of the imperial dynasty. Almost all Japanese empresses and dozens of Emperors abdicated, and lived the rest of their lives in pampered retirement, wielding influence behind the scenes. Several Emperors abdicated to their entitled retirement while still in their teens. These traditions show in Japanese folklore, theater, literature, and other forms of culture, where the Emperor is usually described or depicted as an adolescent.\n\nBefore the Meiji Restoration, Japan had eleven reigns of reigning empresses, all of them daughters of the male line of the Imperial House. None ascended purely as a wife or as a widow of an Emperor. Imperial daughters and granddaughters, however, usually ascended the throne as a sort of a \"stop gap\" measure — if a suitable male was not available or some imperial branches were in rivalry so that a compromise was needed. Over half of Japanese empresses and many Emperors abdicated once a suitable male descendant was considered to be old enough to rule (just past toddlerhood, in some cases). Four empresses, Empress Suiko, Empress Kōgyoku (also Empress Saimei), and Empress Jitō, as well as the mythical Empress Jingū, were widows of deceased Emperors and princesses of the blood imperial in their own right. One, Empress Genmei, was the widow of a crown prince and a princess of the blood imperial. The other four, Empress Genshō, Empress Kōken (also Empress Shōtoku), Empress Meishō, and Empress Go-Sakuramachi, were unwed daughters of previous Emperors. None of these empresses married or gave birth after ascending the throne.\n\nArticle 2 of the Meiji Constitution (the Constitution of the Empire of Japan) stated, \"The Imperial Throne shall be succeeded to by imperial male descendants, according to the provisions of the Imperial House Law.\" The 1889 Imperial Household Law fixed the succession on male descendants of the imperial line, and specifically excluded female descendants from the succession. In the event of a complete failure of the main line, the throne would pass to the nearest collateral branch, again in the male line. If the Empress did not give birth to an heir, the Emperor could take a concubine, and the son he had by that concubine would be recognized as heir to the throne. This law, which was promulgated on the same day as the Meiji Constitution, enjoyed co-equal status with that constitution.\n\nArticle 2 of the Constitution of Japan, promulgated in 1947 by influence of the U.S. occupation administration, provides that \"The Imperial Throne shall be dynastic and succeeded to in accordance with the Imperial Household Law passed by the Diet.\" The Imperial Household Law of 1947, enacted by the ninety-second and last session of the Imperial Diet, retained the exclusion on female dynasts found in the 1889 law. The government of Prime Minister Yoshida Shigeru hastily cobbled together the legislation to bring the Imperial Household in compliance with the American-written Constitution of Japan that went into effect in May 1947. In an effort to control the size of the imperial family, the law stipulates that only legitimate male descendants in the male line can be dynasts; that imperial princesses lose their status as Imperial Family members if they marry outside the Imperial Family; and that the Emperor and other members of the Imperial Family may not adopt children. It also prevented branches, other than the branch descending from Taishō, from being imperial princes any longer.\n\nSuccession is now regulated by laws passed by the National Diet. The current law excludes women from the succession. A change to this law had been considered until Princess Kiko gave birth to a son.\n\nUntil the birth of Prince Hisahito, son of Prince Akishino, on September 6, 2006, there was a potential succession problem, since Prince Akishino was the only male child to be born into the imperial family since 1965. Following the birth of Princess Aiko, there was public debate about amending the current Imperial Household Law to allow women to succeed to the throne. In January 2005, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi appointed a special panel composed of judges, university professors, and civil servants to study changes to the Imperial Household Law and to make recommendations to the government.\n\nThe panel dealing with the succession issue recommended on October 25, 2005, amending the law to allow females of the male line of imperial descent to ascend the Japanese throne. On January 20, 2006, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi devoted part of his annual keynote speech to the controversy, pledging to submit a bill allowing women to ascend the throne to ensure that the succession continues in the future in a stable manner. Shortly after the announcement that Princess Kiko was pregnant with her third child, Koizumi suspended such plans. Her son, Prince Hisahito, is the third in line to the throne under the current law of succession. On January 3, 2007, Prime Minister Shinzō Abe announced that he would drop the proposal to alter the Imperial Household Law.\n\nUntil World War II, the Japanese monarchy was thought to be among the wealthiest in the world. Before 1911, no distinction was made between the imperial crown estates and the Emperor's personal properties, which were considerable. The Imperial Property Law, which came into effect in January 1911, established two categories of imperial properties: the hereditary or crown estates and the personal (\"ordinary\") properties of the imperial family. The Imperial Household Minister was given the responsibility for observing any judicial proceedings concerning imperial holdings. Under the terms of the law, imperial properties were only taxable in cases where no conflict with the Imperial House Law existed; however, crown estates could only be used for public or imperially-sanctioned undertakings. Personal properties of certain members of the imperial family, in addition to properties held for imperial family members who were minors, were exempted from taxation. Those family members included the Empress Dowager, the Empress, the Crown Prince and Crown Princess, the Imperial Grandson and the consort of the Imperial Grandson. As a result of the poor economic conditions in Japan, 289,259.25 acres of crown lands (about 26% of the total landholdings) were either sold or transferred to government and private-sector interests in 1921. In 1930, the Nagoya Detached Palace (Nagoya Castle) was donated to the city of Nagoya, with six other imperial villas being either sold or donated at the same time. In 1939, Nijō Castle, the former Kyoto residence of the Tokugawa shoguns and an imperial palace since the Meiji Restoration, was likewise donated to the city of Kyoto.\n\nAt the end of 1935, according to official government figures, the Imperial Court owned roughly 3,111,965 acres of landed estates, the bulk of which (2,599,548 acres) were the Emperor's private lands, with the total acreage of the crown estates amounting to some 512,161 acres; those landholdings comprised palace complexes, forest and farm lands and other residential and commercial properties. The total value of the imperial properties was then estimated at ¥650 million, or roughly US$195 million at prevailing exchange rates. This was in addition to the Emperor's personal fortune, which itself amounted to hundreds of millions of yen and included numerous family heirlooms and furnishings, purebred livestock and investments in major Japanese firms, such as the Bank of Japan, other major Japanese banks, the Imperial Hotel and Nippon Yusen.\n\nFollowing Japan's defeat in the Second World War, all of the collateral branches of the imperial family were abolished under the Allied occupation of the country and the subsequent constitutional reforms, forcing those families to sell their assets to private or government owners. Staff numbers in the imperial households were slashed from a peak of roughly 6000 to about 1000. The imperial estates and the Emperor's personal fortune (then estimated at US$17.15 million, or roughly US$625 million in 2017 terms) were transferred to either state or private ownership, excepting 6,810 acres of landholdings. Since the 1947 constitutional reforms, the imperial family has been supported by an official civil list sanctioned by the Japanese government. The largest imperial divestments were the former imperial Kiso and Amagi forest lands in Gifu and Shizuoka prefectures, grazing lands for livestock in Hokkaido and a stock farm in the Chiba region, all of which were transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Imperial property holdings have been further reduced since 1947 after several handovers to the government. Today, the primary imperial properties include the two Imperial Palaces at Tokyo and Kyoto, imperial villas at Hayama and at Nasu and a number of imperial farms and game preserves. \n\nAs of 2017, Akihito, the present Emperor, has an estimated net worth of US$40 million. The exact wealth and expenditures of the Emperor and the imperial family have remained a subject of speculation, and were largely withheld from the public until 2003, when Mori Yohei, a former royal correspondent for the \"Mainichi Shimbun\", obtained access to 200 documents through a recently passed public information law. Mori's findings, which he published in a book, revealed details of the imperial family's US$240 million civil list (in 2003 values). Among other details, the book revealed the royal family employed a staff of over 1,000 people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "127589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=127589", "title": "Erotomania", "text": "Erotomania\n\nErotomania is listed in the DSM 5 as a subtype of a delusional disorder. It is a relatively uncommon paranoid condition that is characterized by an individual's delusions of another person being infatuated with them. This disorder is most often seen (though not exclusively) in female patients that are shy, dependent, and sexually inexperienced. The object of the delusion is typically a male who is unattainable due to high social or financial status, marriage, or disinterest. The object of obsession may also be imaginary, deceased, or someone the patient has never met. Delusions of reference are common as the erotomanic individual often perceives that they are being sent messages from the secret admirer through innocuous events such as seeing license plates from specific states. Commonly, the onset of erotomania is sudden and the course is chronic.\n\nErotomania is more common in women, but men are more likely to exhibit violent and stalker-like behaviors. The core symptom of the disorder is that the sufferer holds an unshakable belief that another person is secretly in love with them. In some cases, the sufferer may believe several people at once are \"secret admirers\". Most commonly, the individual has delusions of being loved by an unattainable man who is usually an acquaintance or someone the person has never met. The sufferer may also experience other types of delusions concurrently with erotomania, such as delusions of reference, wherein the perceived admirer secretly communicates their love by subtle methods such as body posture, arrangement of household objects, colors, license plates on cars from specific states, and other seemingly innocuous acts (or, if the person is a public figure, through clues in the media). Some delusions may be extreme such as the conception, birth, and kidnapping of children that never existed. The delusional objects may be replaced by others over time, and some may be chronic in fixed forms. Denial is characteristic with this disorder as the patients do not accept the fact that their object of delusion may be married, unavailable, or uninterested. The phantom lover may also be imaginary or deceased. Erotomania has two forms: primary and secondary. Primary erotomania is also commonly referred to as de Clerambault's syndrome and Old Maid's Insanity and it exists alone without comorbidities, has a sudden onset and a chronic outcome. The secondary form is found along with mental disorders like paranoid schizophrenia, often includes persecutory delusions, hallucinations, and grandiose ideas, and has a more gradual onset. Patients with a \"fixed\" condition are more seriously ill with constant delusions and are less responsive to treatment. These individuals are usually timid, dependent women that are often sexually inexperienced. In those with a more mild, recurrent condition, delusions are shorter-lived and the disorder can exist undetected by others for years. Problematic behaviors include actions like calling, sending letters and gifts, making unannounced house visits and other persistent stalking behaviors.\n\nErotomania may present as a primary mental disorder, or as a symptom of another psychiatric illness. With secondary erotomania, the erotomanic delusions are due to other mental disorders such as bipolar I disorder or schizophrenia. Symptoms may also be precipitated by alcoholism and the use of antidepressants. There may be a potential genetic component involved as family histories of first degree relatives with histories of psychiatric disorders are common. Sigmund Freud explained erotomania as a defense mechanism to ward off homosexual impulses which can lead to strong feelings of paranoia, denial, displacement and projection. Similarly, it has been explained as a way to cope with severe loneliness or ego deficit following a major loss. Erotomania may also be linked to unsatiated urges dealing with homosexuality or narcissism. Some research shows brain abnormalities occurring in patients with erotomania such as heightened temporal lobe asymmetry and greater volumes of lateral ventricles than those with no mental disorders.\n\nPrognosis differs from person to person, and the ideal treatment is not completely understood. Treatment for this disorder gains the best results when tailored specifically for each individual. To date, the mainline pharmacological treatments have been pimozide (a typical antipsychotic which was also approved for treating Tourette's Syndrome), and atypical anti-psychotics like risperidone and clozapine. Non-pharmacologic treatments that have shown some degree of efficacy are electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), supportive psychotherapy, family and environment therapy, rehousing, risk management and treating underlying disorders in cases of secondary erotomania. ECT may provide temporary remission of delusional beliefs; anti-psychotics help attenuate delusions and reduce agitation or associated dangerous behaviors, and SSRIs may be used to treat secondary depression. In delusional disorder there is some evidence that pimozide has superior efficacy compared with other antipsychotics. Psychosocial psychiatric interventions can enhance the quality of life through allowing some social functioning, and treating comorbid disorders is a priority for secondary erotomania. Family therapy, adjustment of socio-environmental factors, and replacing delusions with something positive may be beneficial to all. In most cases, harsh confrontation should be avoided. Structured risk assessment helps to manage risky behaviors in those individuals more likely to engage in actions that include violence, stalking, and crime. For particularly troublesome cases, neuroleptics and enforced separation may be moderately effective.\n\nEarly references to the condition can be found in the work of Hippocrates, Freud (1911), G.G. de Clérambault (1942), Erasistratus, Plutarch and Galen. Parisian physician, Bartholomy Pardoux (1545-1611) covered the topics of nymphomania and erotomania. In 1623, erotomania was referred to in a treatise by Jacques Ferrand (Maladie d'amour ou Mélancolie érotique) and has been called \"erotic paranoia\" and \"erotic self-referent delusion\" until the common usage of the terms erotomania and de Clérambault's syndrome. In 1971 and 1977, M.V. Seeman referred to the disorder as \"phantom lover syndrome\" and \"psychotic erotic transference reaction and delusional loving\". Emil Kraepelin and Bernard also wrote of erotomania and more recently, Winokur, Kendler, and Munro have contributed to knowledge on the disorder.\n\nG. E. Berrios and N. Kennedy outlined in 'Erotomania: a conceptual history' (2002) several periods of history through which the definition of erotomania has changed considerably:\n\n\nIn one case, erotomania was reported in a patient who had undergone surgery for a ruptured cerebral aneurysm.\n\nIn his paper that described the syndrome, de Clérambault referenced a patient he had counselled who was obsessed with British monarch George V. She had stood outside Buckingham Palace for hours at a time, believing that the king was communicating his desire for her by moving the curtains.\n\nParallels were drawn between this and a 2011 case where the body of a homeless American man was found on a secluded traffic island within sight of Buckingham Palace. The man had sent hundreds of \"strange and offensive\" packages to Queen Elizabeth II over the previous 15 years.\n\nThe assassination attempt on Ronald Reagan by John Hinckley, Jr. has been reported to have been driven by an erotomanic fixation on Jodie Foster, whom Hinckley was attempting to impress.[3]\n\nLate night TV entertainer David Letterman and former astronaut Story Musgrave were both stalked by Margaret Mary Ray, who suffered from erotomania.\n\nMichael David Barrett allegedly suffered from erotomania, stalking ESPN correspondent Erin Andrews across the country, trying to see her and taking lewd videos.\n\nIt is important to note that many cases of obsession or stalking can be linked to erotomania but do not always necessarily go hand in hand.\n\nThe horror of erotomania can be seen in these films:\n\n\nErotomania is also in:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25233086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25233086", "title": "Fiesta de Toros del Señor de Girón", "text": "Fiesta de Toros del Señor de Girón\n\nFiesta de Toros del Señor de Girón is a festival held each year in Girón, Ecuador. It is the most popular festival in the canton of Girón and is one of the most important festivals in Azuay Province.\n\nThe festival celebrates the Señor de las Aguas de Girón, an image of the crucified Christ that is located in Girón's church. The image is believed to bring rain; it is celebrated to bring blessings to agriculture and livestock. The origins of the festival are unclear. Some say that it is adapted from customs practiced by their ancestors, while others claim that it is a Spanish custom that combined with local influences.\n\nThe festival takes place around November, and the festival's length depends on the number of \"priostes\" (hosts), who provide the funds for the festival. In recent years, it has lasted six weeks. The \"priostes\" are generally Ecuadorian emigrants living in the United States and other countries. Each week, there is one primary \"prioste\" called the \"Fiesta Alcalde\" and two secondary hosts called the \"Incierro Izquierdo\" and the \"Incierro Derecho\".\n\nThe highlight of the festival are the \"corridas\" (runnings of the bulls) held each Saturday. Bulls are brought into a plaza and released, so that they can be chased and brought back to the plaza. Young people re-capture the animals, often by pulling on their tails, and bring the animals back to the plaza. Upon the bulls' return, one or more of the bulls is killed as a sacrifice. Dozens of participants surround the bull and take turns drinking the blood that flows from it as it dies. It is commonly believed that the blood is good for the health. After the drinking of the blood, the bull is cleaned and prepared for being served in later festivities.\n\nTo accompany the corridas, there are bands and dancing, as well as \"platilleras\" (girls chosen from the surrounding area, dressed in traditional clothing). Many of the \"platilleras\" are Ecuadorians who have returned from the United States to participate in the festivities. There are exchanges of bottles of liquor with the hosts and \"agua de canela\" (cinnamon water) as a sign of friendship and good luck.\n\n"}
{"id": "516432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=516432", "title": "From the Earth to the Moon (miniseries)", "text": "From the Earth to the Moon (miniseries)\n\nFrom the Earth to the Moon is a 12-part 1998 HBO television miniseries co-produced by Ron Howard, Brian Grazer, Tom Hanks, and Michael Bostick, telling the story of the landmark \"Apollo\" expeditions to the Moon during the 1960s and early 1970s in docudrama format. Largely based on Andrew Chaikin's book, \"A Man on the Moon\", the series is known for its accurate telling of the story of Apollo and the outstanding special effects under visual director Ernest D. Farino.\n\nThe series takes its title from, but is not based upon, the famous Jules Verne science fiction novel \"From the Earth to the Moon\". Hanks appears in every episode, introducing each of the first eleven. The last episode is represented in a pseudo-documentary format narrated by Blythe Danner, interspersed with a reenactment of the making of Georges Méliès' film \"Le Voyage dans la Lune\". Hanks narrates and appears in these scenes as Méliès' assistant.\n\nThe miniseries has a fairly large cast, driven in part by the fact that it portrays 30 of the 32 astronauts who flew, or were preparing to fly, the twelve missions of the Apollo program. (The only two Apollo astronauts not portrayed by credited actors are Apollo 13 Command Module pilot Jack Swigert and Apollo 17 Command Module pilot Ronald Evans, who had a brief appearance in the liftoff scene of Apollo 17 in the final episode.) Members of many of the astronauts' families, and other NASA and non-NASA personnel, are also portrayed.\n\nSeveral fictional (or fictionalized) characters are also included, notably television newscaster Emmett Seaborn (Lane Smith) who appears in nine of the twelve episodes.\n\nThe twelve episodes, each directed by different individuals, use a variety of viewpoints and themes, while sequentially covering the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs. Lane Smith portrays Emmett Seaborn, a seasoned reporter for a fictional television network, who covers the U.S. space program from its earliest days, providing continuity for most of the episodes.\n\nThe miniseries, concentrating on the Apollo space program, was produced with an intent not to repeat other dramatic portrayals of events of the space race.\n\nProject Mercury, which was portrayed in the film \"The Right Stuff\", was briefly summarized in the first episode. Miniseries producers Hanks, Howard and Grazer, who had previously produced \"Apollo 13\", shot the episode \"We Interrupt This Program\" from the perspective of the media covering that flight, as the film had already covered the story from the point of view of the crew and the mission control team.\n\nMany of the actors had opportunity to interact and form friendships with the real life astronauts they were portraying. Brett Cullen, who played Apollo 9 Command Module pilot and Apollo 15 commander David Scott, was invited to the Scott family home each time an episode he appeared in was first televised. Two short clips from the final scenes of \"Apollo 13\" were used in \"That's All There Is\"; a splashdown sequence, and a view of the recovery ship USS \"Iwo Jima\" (portrayed by USS \"New Orleans\").\n\nThe original series was shot in 1.33:1 aspect ratio, intended to be viewed on standard television sets. The series was released on DVD as a 4-disc set. With the proliferation of widescreen flat-panel TV sets the series was remastered in 1.78:1 aspect ratio and re-released in 2005 as a 5-disc DVD box set. New framing causes loss of top and bottom parts of the frames from the original movie. This is not always noticeable because of careful transfer process, but in some scenes important details are lost. For example, in Disc 1, when the Gemini 8 / Agena assembly is tumbling around the sky with a stuck thruster, the thruster is not visible in the new widescreen version as it is cut off by the top of the frame. Some captions have also been compromised.\n\nParts of the mini-series were filmed at the Disney-MGM Studios (now Disney's Hollywood Studios) in Orlando, Florida. Scenes of the moonwalks were shot inside the blimp hangars on the former Marine base in Tustin, California. Approximately half the area inside was converted to the Moon's surface, with the remainder used to hold production trailers. To simulate lunar surface gravity, weather balloons filled with helium were attached to the backs of the actors playing the astronauts in the lunar extravehicular activity scenes, effectively reducing their Earth-bound weights to one-sixth.\n\nThe score of \"Spider\" prominently features an imitation of the main title theme from the 1963 World War II movie \"The Great Escape\", and Tom Kelly jokes about having a crew digging a tunnel out of the Grumman plant. The episode also featured a real Apollo Lunar Module (LM-13), which had been built for the Apollo 18 mission but was never used due to budget cuts. Blythe Danner, who narrated the final episode, had previously worked on location at the Johnson Space Center for the 1976 movie \"Futureworld\", filmed in the same buildings where Apollo moonwalkers had recently trained.\n\nThe series won 3 Emmy awards for Outstanding Miniseries, Outstanding Casting for a Miniseries or a Movie and Outstanding Hairstyling for a Miniseries, Movie or a Special. In addition, the series won a 1999 Golden Globe Award for Best Mini-Series or Motion Picture Made for TV.\n\n"}
{"id": "29032117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29032117", "title": "Great Recession in South America", "text": "Great Recession in South America\n\nThe Great Recession in South America, as it mainly consists of commodity exporters, was not directly affected by the financial turmoil, even if the bond markets of Brazil, Argentina, Colombia and Venezuela have been hit.\n\nOn the other hand, the continent experienced a tough agricultural crisis at the beginning of 2008. Food prices have increased a lot, due to a lack of arable land. One of the main reasons for the loss of agricultural land was the high value offered by the production of biofuels. However, second generation biofuel processes is slowly being implemented in order to extend the amount of biofuel that can be produced sustainably by using biomass consisting of the residual non-food parts of current crops, such as stems, leaves and husks. Other crops that are not used for food purposes (non food crops), such as switchgrass, grass, jatropha, whole crop maize, and miscanthus could be used to produce biofuels without starving the population that are dependent on food products. Industry waste products (i.e., woodchips, skins and pulp) from fruit pressing would also replace the need to waste arable land for biofuels; possibly improving the South American economy. Food prices, rising since 2002, ascended from 2006, reaching a peak during the first quarter of 2008. In one year the average price of food rose by about 50%.\n\nThen South American countries were affected by both the global slowdown and the decrease in food prices due to the declining demand. In June 2008, the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) declared it expected a 4% growth for 2009. However at the end of the year it predicted that the year 2009 would put an end to six years of prosperity during which Latin America has benefited from high raw material prices. Production in the region is likely to decline and unemployment to increase. However, the Center for Economic and Policy Research has estimated that the region may be able to cope with the global downturn with the right macro-economic policies, as these countries no longer depend on the U.S. economy.\n\nWhile previously thought immune to the global financial crisis, the economy of Brazil shrank 3.5% in the fourth quarter of 2008, with industrial production in January 2009, 17.2% below that of January 2008. Growth for 2008 as a whole was 5.1%. Capital spending fell 9.8% in the fourth quarter while household consumption fell 2% from the third quarter. Another report, in \"The Wall Street Journal\", showed drop in gross domestic product of 13.6% in the 4th quarter of 2008 on an annualized rate and a drop in industrial production for December, 2008 to a rate 18.6% lower than December 2007, with a loss of over 700,000 jobs between November 2008 and February 2009.\n\nAs the second-largest economy in South America and an important exporter of both machinery and agricultural goods, Argentina has been affected by the global slowdown. The country has been seeing slower economic growth recently, seeing its growth rate forecast reduced from nearly 7% in 2008 to 0% in 2009, and due to the steep drop in commodities prices, plus a long, damaging drought in the farm provinces, local economists believe the country may fall into recession. To combat the effects of the financial crisis, the government announced a $32 billion stimulus package that is intended to create some 380,000 jobs and favor small and medium-sized businesses, with investment in infrastructure, gas pipelines and electricity generators, as well as the completion by 2010 of a new nuclear power plant. However, former President Néstor Kirchner, the husband of the current president, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner and leader of the ruling Justicialist Party, said in a speech on February 17, 2009, that due to the international crisis, Argentina in 2009 will face \"the most difficult year in the last century.\"\n\nEcuador is seeking ways to default on sovereign debts incurred under the government of Gustavo Noboa, which the present government deems to have been incurred illegally. If Ecuador defaults, it will be the first developing country to default on sovereign debt since the crisis began.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) said as soon as February 2008 that a U.S. slowdown would hurt the economies of the Caribbean Islands, especially those in the Eastern Islands. Indeed, the tourism sector makes up a large part of the Islands' economies, so that they are heavily dependent on the number of U.S. visitors each year. However, the lower inflation and currency depreciation in several Latin American and Caribbean nations can have offset this impact of the financial crisis, sustaining the activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "3681865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3681865", "title": "Hot Dog days", "text": "Hot Dog days\n\nHot Dog Days are informal events that are celebrated in communities throughout the hotdog-eating world, including the United States, Canada, Great Britain and Australia. Their origin is obscure. As the name suggests, the festivals revolve around eating hot dogs, but usually there are many other activities such as wiener dog races, root beer chugging contests, and face painting. Often the proceeds from a hot dog day are given to charity. Industry groups, such as National Hot Dog and Sausage Council in the USA, encourage, sponsor, and support the events. The Council designates July as National Hot Dog Month; National Hot Dog Day varies year to year – in 2018 it falls on Wednesday, July 18 – based on when the North American Meat Institute hosts its annual Hot Dog Lunch on Capitol Hill. The council also gives advice on hot-dog eating etiquette, which aren't considered strict, as most Hot Dog Day style events do not adhere to them.\n\nHot Dog Day is celebrated in the spring in the village of Alfred, New York. It has been celebrated since 1971, when students first proposed it. The event is focused on the hot dog, a food popular among college students for its cheapness and ease of preparation. Hot Dog Day itself is usually the third Saturday in April, although many students celebrate the entire \"hot dog week\", running from that Wednesday to that Sunday.\n\nHot Dog Day, which is organized primarily by students from Alfred University and Alfred State College, raises money for local charities and community organizations such as Alfred fire department and Alfred Montessori school.\n\nEvents typically include a parade, ice cream social, \"fun run\", mud Olympics, hot dog eating contests, carnival, and live music. Main Street, which is closed to traffic, hosts most of these activities along with food choices such as a chicken barbecue and numerous hot dog stands. Hot Dog Day is often the time chosen for alumni reunions for Alfred's two colleges.\n\nThe Annual Hot Dog Lunch in Washington, D.C., is one of the most popular social events on Capitol Hill. Sponsored by the North American Meat Institute for the past 40 years, more than 1,000 members of Congress, Administration officials, journalists and lobbyists gather in a courtyard for a huge hot dog picnic. At the lunch, hot dog companies serve their franks from traditional hot dog carts and popular retired major league baseball players sign autographs for attendees.\n\nThe Boston Hot Dog Safari is an annual charity benefit founded by Boston sports radio host Eddie Andelman. The charity began in 1990 to help find a cure for cystic fibrosis by raising money for the Joey Fund, named after a friend of his who died of the disease in 1986 at the age of twelve. One of Andelman's all-time favorite foods are hot dogs, which is why the charity is called the Hot Dog Safari.\n\nThe Hot Dog Safari is one of the most popular charity events in Boston today. Over the years, it has a gained a steady flow of participants as well as money for charity. In one single day, an estimated $150,000 dollars was raised to help find a cure for cystic fibrosis. Medical experts have said that finding a cure for the disease is close to being found in only a few years' time.\n\nThe Safari is an all-you-eat supply of hot dogs, sausages, and ice cream sundaes. Money is earned from tickets (sold either at the door or in advance) and raffles. Entertainment is also provided.\n\nThe West Virginia Hot Dog Festival has been held in Huntington, West Virginia, on the last Saturday in July since 2005. A charitable event, the festival may raise $10,000 or more for the children's cancer unit at the Edwards' Comprehensive Cancer Center. Activities include a bun run (or walk), a weiner dog race, the owner-dog look-alike contest, a car and truck show, a hotdog eating contest, and a harmonica championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6294936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6294936", "title": "I Don't Like Mondays", "text": "I Don't Like Mondays\n\n\"I Don't Like Mondays\" is a song by Irish band The Boomtown Rats about the 1979 Cleveland Elementary School shooting in San Diego. The song was a number one single in the UK Singles Chart for four weeks during the summer of 1979, and ranks as the sixth biggest hit of the UK in 1979. Written by Bob Geldof, it was the band's second number one single.\n\nThe full length version appeared on the group's third album, \"The Fine Art of Surfacing\". It includes a reprise of the first verse, which was edited for the single release.\n\nAccording to Geldof, he wrote the song after reading a telex report at Georgia State University's campus radio station, WRAS, on the shooting spree of 16-year-old Brenda Ann Spencer, who fired at children in a school playground at Grover Cleveland Elementary School in San Diego, California, US on 29 January 1979, killing two adults and injuring eight children and one police officer. Spencer showed no remorse for her crime and her full explanation for her actions was \"I don't like Mondays. This livens up the day\". Geldof had been contacted by Steve Jobs to play a gig for Apple, inspiring the opening line about a 'Silicon chip'. The song was first performed less than a month later. \n\nGeldof explained how he wrote the song:\nI was doing a radio interview in Atlanta with [Johnnie] Fingers and there was a telex machine beside me. I read it as it came out. Not liking Mondays as a reason for doing somebody in is a bit strange. I was thinking about it on the way back to the hotel and I just said 'Silicon chip inside her head had switched to overload'. I wrote that down. And the journalists interviewing her said, 'Tell me why?' It was such a senseless act. It was the perfect senseless act and this was the perfect senseless reason for doing it. So perhaps I wrote the perfect senseless song to illustrate it. It wasn't an attempt to exploit tragedy.\n\nGeldof had originally intended the song as a B-side, but changed his mind after the song was successful with audiences on the Rats' US tour. Spencer's family tried unsuccessfully to prevent the single from being released in the United States. Despite being a major hit in the United Kingdom, it only reached #73 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The song was played regularly by album-oriented rock format radio stations in the United States throughout the 1980s, although radio stations in San Diego refrained from playing the track for some years in respect to local sensitivities about the shooting. \n\nThe strings were arranged by Fiachra Trench. Apart from Geldof, pianist Johnnie Fingers and drummer Simon Crowe are the only members of the group who appear on the recording.\n\nIn the UK the song reached Number One on the singles chart in July 1979, and won the Best Pop Song and Outstanding British Lyric categories at the Ivor Novello Awards.\n\nOn 9 September 1981, Geldof was joined on stage by fellow Boomtown Rat, Johnnie Fingers, to perform the song for The Secret Policeman's Ball sponsored by Amnesty International. A recording of that performance appears on the 1982 album, The Secret Policeman's Other Ball. \n\nThe Boomtown Rats performed the song for Live Aid at Wembley Stadium in 1985. This was the band's final major appearance. On singing the line, \"And the lesson today is how to die\", Geldof paused for 20 seconds while the crowd applauded on the significance to those starving in Africa that Live Aid was intended to help. \n\nAt a concert in London in 1995, almost ten years later to the day, Bon Jovi covered the song after being joined on stage by Geldof at Wembley Stadium. This recorded performance features on Bon Jovi's live album \"One Wild Night Live 1985–2001\", as well as on the bonus 2-CD edition of \"These Days\". Bon Jovi was again joined by Geldof for a performance of the song at The O2 Arena on 23 June 2010, the 10th night of their 12-night residency. Geldof himself performed a version of the song while hosting the Live 8 concert in London, on 2 July 2005. \n\n\"I Don't Like Mondays\" was subsequently covered by Tori Amos on her 2001 album \"Strange Little Girls\" and later by G4 on their 2006 album \"Act Three\".\n"}
{"id": "14941975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14941975", "title": "Journal for Geoclimatic Studies", "text": "Journal for Geoclimatic Studies\n\nThe Journal for Geoclimatic Studies is the name given to a nonexistent journal which published a fabricated global warming study in November 2007 entitled, \"Carbon dioxide production by benthic bacteria: the death of manmade global warming theory?\" The published study identified the \"Journal for Geoclimatic Studies\" as an official publication of Okinawa University's Institute for Geoclimatic Studies (The Institute for Geoclimatic Studies is also fraudulent and does not exist). The spurious study, ostensibly authored by Daniel Klein and Mandeep J. Gupta of the University of Arizona's Department of Climatology, and Philip Cooper and Arne FR Jansson at the University of Gothenburg's Department of Atmospheric Physics, claimed that global warming was not human caused, but the work of carbon-dioxide emitting bacteria based on the ocean floor. \n\nThe report was circulated by a number of global warming skeptics before discovery that the study authors and university departments identified in the publication did not exist. The website where the study was published was taken down once the deception was revealed, and its ownership was traced to David Thorpe, a science journalist and web designer based in the United Kingdom. The true author of the article is purportedly a man identifying himself as Mark Cox, who has claimed the hoax was designed to expose the gullibility and scientific illiteracy of global warming skeptics.\n\n"}
{"id": "188637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188637", "title": "Kaziuko mugė", "text": "Kaziuko mugė\n\nKaziuko mugė or Saint Casimir's Fair is a large annual folk arts and crafts fair in Vilnius, Lithuania, dating to the beginning of the 17th century. The fair is traditionally held in city's markets and streets on the Sunday nearest to March 4 (Feast of St. Casimir), the anniversary of Saint Casimir's death. In Lithuanian, \"Kaziukas\" is a diminutive of \"Casimir\". Today, Saint Casimir's fair also features music, dance, theater performances; it attracts tens of thousands of visitors and many craftsmen from across Lithuania as well as from neighbouring countries such as Latvia, Russia, and Poland. In recent years, the fair has expanded into other cities in Lithuania, Belarus, Poland.\n\nSt. Casimir, son of King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania Casimir IV, was canonized in 1602. In conjunction with his feast day celebrations, merchants established a fair. In 1827, they received a privilege to hold the fair in the Cathedral Square. In 1901, after a monument to Catherine the Great was unveiled in the Cathedral Square, the fair was moved to Lukiškės Square. During the Soviet era, the fair was held in Kalvarijos Market. In 1991, it returned to the Old Town of Vilnius. It was first held in Pilies Street but has since grown to span Gediminas Avenue, traverse the Cathedral Square, and branch out into Pilies Street, B. Radvilaitės Street, passing St. Anne's Church, and the Orthodox Cathedral of the Theotokos, and into the Tymas' Quarter on the left bank of Vilnia River near Užupis. It is estimated that as of 2013, the fair attracted 2,000 merchants and half a million visitors over three days (Friday to Sunday).\n\nIn recent years the fair has expanded into other cities in Lithuania, including Kaunas (in Laisvės alėja and Town Hall Square), Alytus, Klaipėda. Similar festivals called \"Kaziuki\" are also held in several cities in Poland, e.g. in Lidzbark Warmiński, Olsztyn, Szczecin, Gdańsk and Poznań, as well as in Hrodna, Belarus, the city where St. Casimir died.\nA smaller version of the fair is also held by Lithuanian communities abroad, including inside the Lithuanian World Center in Lemont, Illinois.\n\nThe arts and crafts at the fair include hand-made goods from local craftsmen, such as woven and knitted clothes, footwear, toys, utensils, pots and jugs, jewelry, souvenirs, and paintings. Traditional foodstuffs include rye bread, bubliks, gingerbread, natural honey, beer, gira, and colorfully wrapped hard candy. Crafts represented include wood carvers, blacksmiths, potters, weavers and knitters, wicker weavers.\n\nEaster palms () are one of the fair's specialties. They are made of colourful dried wild flowers and herbs (about 150 different varieties of plants are used) tied around a wooden stick. Traditionally, they were taken to churches on Palm Sunday. Verba has become a traditional symbol of spring and Easter. However, it is an endangered craft. Making \"verba\" is difficult and time-consuming process. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find flowers and herbs or special dies to color them. The buyers are wary that the dried plants would cause allergic reactions.\n\nAnother signature product at the fair is the Casimir's Heart, a heart-shaped gingerbread decorated with sugar patterns and figures (flowers, zigzags, birds, etc.) or popular given names. People buy them to give to their loved ones. It is customary to bring back some these to those who could not attend.\n\n"}
{"id": "34316082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34316082", "title": "King René's Daughter", "text": "King René's Daughter\n\nKong Renés Datter (\"King René’s Daughter\") is a Danish verse drama written in 1845 by Henrik Hertz. It is a fictional account of the early life of Yolande of Lorraine, daughter of René of Anjou, in which she is depicted as a beautiful blind sixteen-year-old princess who lives in a protected garden paradise. The play was highly popular in the 19th century. It was translated into many languages, copied, parodied and adapted. The Russian adaptation by Vladimir Zotov was used as the basis for the 1892 opera \"Iolanta\", written by Tchaikovsky, with libretto by his brother Modest Ilyich Tchaikovsky.\n\nThe name of the central character is given as \"Iolanthe\" in the original and in early English versions.\n\n\nAt the entrance to a hidden garden in a beautiful Provençal valley Bertrand explains to Almerick that no one must be allowed to enter because the king's daughter Iolanthe is living there in seclusion. The fact that she is blind has been kept secret from all but a few confidants; it has been put out that she is living in a convent. Even Iolanthe herself does not understand that she is blind because no one is allowed to speak to her of light or colour. Nor does she know she is a princess. She was blinded in an accident in infancy and has been attended ever since by the Moorish physician Ebn Jahia, who every day places her in an enchanted sleep and attends to her eyes while she is unconscious. With a combination of medication, magic and astrology, he has predicted that she will be cured when she is 16. This is also when she is due to marry Tristan, Count of Vaudémont, who is unaware of her condition. Iolanthe has just passed her 16th birthday. Martha says that Iolanthe has grown up happy, spending her time in song and poetry, and that she will not be able to understand what sight is. Almerick says that he has been sent to inform Bertrand that the king and the physician will be arriving shortly and that Count Tristan is on his way to Provence to marry Iolanthe.\n\nKing René and Ebn Jahia arrive. They discuss Iolanthe's cure. Ebn Jaha says that Iolanthe should soon be able to see, but first she must be told that she is blind and made to understand what sight is. René does not want his daughter's happiness to be broken, so is unwilling to violate Iolanthe's innocence. Ebn Jahia explains that the body and the spirit are intertwined, insisting that Iolanthe must be psychologically prepared for sight. King René agonises over his decision, while Ebn Jahia places Iolanthe in a sleep using a magical amulet. They leave.\n\nGeoffrey and Tristan arrive at the gate. They enter the garden. Tristan tells Geoffrey that he does not want to marry a woman he has never seen; indeed he hates the thought of it. He is only willing to do so from a sense of duty. They enter the garden marvelling at its beauty. Tristan sees the sleeping Iolanthe and immediately falls in love with her. Geoffrey thinks he has been enchanted. Tristan picks up the amulet. He prepares to leave, but Iolanthe wakes, calling for Bertrand and Martha. Geoffrey and Tristan introduce themselves and Iolanthe makes them a drink. The three young people sing troubadour songs to each other. Tristan asks Geoffrey to bring their troops to guard the pass giving entrance to the valley. Geoffrey leaves. Iolanthe and Tristan talk together. He discovers she is blind when she fails to distinguish a white from a red rose. He tries to explain light and colour to her, but she cannot understand him. He declares his love for her and says he will find her father and ask him for her hand in marriage. He leaves.\n\nIolanthe tells Bertrand and Martha that a mysterious stranger has been there and awakened in her confusing new ideas and feelings. René and Ebn Jahia arrive. René realises he must now explain to Iolanthe what blindness is. He tries to do so. Iolanthe is perplexed, but Ebn Jahia says that the cure can now be successfully completed. He leads Iolanthe away. Almerick arrives with a letter from Tristan stating that he can no longer marry Iolanthe as he has found his true love. René is astounded. Tristan and Geoffrey arrive wearing armour. They say their army has taken control of the valley. They demand to know who René is. He tells them he is the king. Tristan states that he loves the girl who lives in the garden. René explains that she is Iolanthe, his own daughter and Tristan's fiancée. Iolanthe and Ebn Jahia return. She is cured. Everyone rejoices.\n\nThe story is based on the life of Yolande, daughter of King René of Anjou, who married her cousin Frederick II, Count of Vaudémont in 1445. The marriage was a dynastic alliance, arranged to end the dispute which existed between René of Anjou and Frederick's father, Antoine of Vaudémont, regarding the succession to the Duchy of Lorraine. Beyond these facts, the play is fictional. The Count of Vaudémont's given name is altered to \"Tristan\". The central conceit of Iolanthe's blindness is entirely invented.\n\nSubjects related to the court of René were familiar in the Romantic and Victorian period. René had been idealised in the Romantic era as a poet-king, whose court in Provence was a genteel haven of literature, architecture and art in a violent era. This image was first popularised in Walter Scott's 1829 novel \"Anne of Geierstein\".\n\nThe portrayal of Yolande in Hertz's play as a saintly dreaming beauty (regularly placed in an entranced sleep by the physician) was immensely popular. The play was translated into other languages.\n\nThere were several English translations, including by Jane Frances Chapman (1845) and Theodore Martin (1850). The heroine's name was retained from the original as \"Iolanthe\". The piece was produced in London several times, including at the Strand Theatre in 1849; later by Charles Kean at the Haymarket Theatre; and in 1876 at the Lyceum Theatre by Henry Irving's company in Martin's version, starring Helena Faucit Martin in the title role and Irving as Count Tristan. A version of the play adapted by W.G. Wills was performed by Irving's company at the Lyceum in 1880 under the title \"Iolanthe\", starring Ellen Terry in the title role and Irving as Count Tristan. An unrelated 1882 Gilbert and Sullivan opera was titled \"Iolanthe\" after Gilbert asked his producer, Richard D'Oyly Carte, to request Irving's permission for use of the name. A musical version of the play itself had already been created in 1871 as a cantata by Henry Smart, setting a verse adaptation by Frederick Enoch.\nThe Russian translation was by Fyodor Miller. An adaptation by Vladimir Zotov expanded the plot. This version was used as the basis for the opera \"Iolanta\", written by Tchaikovsky to a libretto by his brother, Modest Ilyich Tchaikovsky. It received its premiere on 18 December 1892 in St. Petersburg. In this version much of the magical material in the original is eliminated, making Ebn Jahia more of a scientist than sorcerer. A new character, Robert, Duke of Burgundy, is introduced to replace Geoffrey. Robert becomes Iolanthe's original unwilling fiancé, who happily relinquishes Iolanthe to his friend Vaudémont.\n\nIn 1893 a new musical version of the drama, by the light opera composer Julian Edwards, was published in America and performed with limited success on Broadway.\n\nIn 1913 a silent film of Hertz's play was made by the Thanhouser Company, starring Maude Fealy as Iolanthe. It was also adapted in 1990 as the German film \"Das Licht der Liebe\".\n"}
{"id": "1215776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1215776", "title": "Lake Peigneur", "text": "Lake Peigneur\n\nLake Peigneur (locally pronounced ) is a saline lake in the US state of Louisiana, north of Delcambre and west of New Iberia, near the northernmost tip of Vermilion Bay. With a maximum depth of , it is the deepest lake in Louisiana.\n\nIt was a deep freshwater body, popular with sportsmen, until an unusual man-made disaster on November 20, 1980 changed its structure and the surrounding land.\n\nOn Thursday, November 20, 1980, an oil rig contracted by Texaco accidentally drilled into the Diamond Crystal Salt Company salt mine under the lake. Because of an incorrect or misinterpreted coordinate reference system (the rig was positioned as if the coordinates were in the Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system when, in actuality, they were in transverse Mercator projection) the drill bit entered the mine, starting a chain of events that turned the lake from freshwater to salt-water, with a deep hole.\n\nIt is difficult to determine what occurred, as much evidence was destroyed or washed away in the ensuing maelstrom. Eventually, it was determined that a miscalculation by Texaco about their location resulted in the drill puncturing the roof of the third level of the mine. This created an opening in the bottom of the lake. The lake then drained into the hole, expanding the size of that hole as the soil and salt were washed into the mine by the rushing water, filling the enormous caverns that had been left by the removal of salt since 1919.\n\nThe resultant whirlpool sucked in the drilling platform, eleven barges, many trees and of the surrounding terrain. So much water drained into those caverns that the flow of the Delcambre Canal that usually empties the lake into Vermilion Bay was reversed, making the canal a temporary inlet. This backflow created for a few days the tallest waterfall ever in the state of Louisiana, at , as the lake refilled with salty water from the Delcambre Canal and Vermilion Bay. Air displaced by the water flowing into the mine caverns erupted through the mineshafts as compressed air and then later as geysers.\n\nAlthough there were no injuries and no human lives lost, three dogs were reported killed. All 55 employees in the mine at the time of the accident were able to escape thanks to well-planned and rehearsed evacuation drills, while the crew of the drilling rig fled the platform before it was sucked down into the new depths of the lake; a fisherman who was on the lake at the time was able to pilot his small boat to shore and escape. Days after the disaster, once the water pressure equalized, nine of the eleven sunken barges popped out of the whirlpool and refloated on the lake's surface.\n\nTexaco and the drilling contractor Wilson Brothers paid $32 million to Diamond Crystal and $12.8 million to a nearby plant nursery, Live Oak Gardens, in out-of-court settlements to compensate for the damage caused. The mine was finally closed in December 1986.\n\nSince 1994, AGL Resources has used Lake Peigneur's underlying salt dome as a storage and hub facility for pressurized natural gas. There was concern from local residents in 2009 over the safety of storing the gas under the lake and nearby drilling operations.\n\nThe lake had salty water after the event, not as a result of salt from the mine dissolving into the water, but from the inflow of salty water from the Delcambre Canal and Vermilion Bay, which are naturally salty or brackish. The event permanently affected the ecosystem of the lake by changing the lake from freshwater to saltwater and increasing the depth of part of the lake.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30352743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30352743", "title": "Lehman Wave", "text": "Lehman Wave\n\nThe term Lehman Wave refers to an economy-wide fluctuation in production and economic activity, with a wavelength of between 12 and 18 months, driven by a sudden major disruption of the economic system. The Lehman Wave is a damped, wave-like fluctuation around equilibrium. The amplitude of the Lehman Wave is larger for a business that is further away from its end market than for a business that is closer to its end market, which difference is caused by cumulative de-stocking of the intermediate supply chain. \nThis term Lehman Wave has first been used by Dutch researchers in 2009 who gave that name to the economic wave that started in September 2008. They argue that the latter was caused by global de-stocking after the financial panic following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers on September 15, 2008. The Lehman Wave can have strong effects on the sales volume and therefore on the profitability of companies that are located upstream in the supply chain.\n\nThe strong dip in the manufacturing industry seen at the end of 2008 was caused by cumulative and synchronized active destocking, triggered by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers. Said bankruptcy created a sudden peak in the Libor interest rate, causing banks to recall credit and companies to start freeing up cash by reducing stocks. End markets also responded by going down, but much slower and in most markets not so strongly. The de-stocking created a giant damped wave, the so-called \"Lehman wave\". \n\nThe cyclic pattern of the Lehman Wave can be modelled explicitly since it is the consequence of mechanical behavior of stocks and flows. The Lehman Wave is presumed to have a wave-like character because of the elasticity of the supply chains in which it takes place. Each individual supply chain acts as a string that is oscillating. All supply chains together form the economy, which also oscillates. The wave character of the Lehman Wave makes it possible to predict its cause.\n\nActive and re-active destocking explains why some companies can see a strong dip in sales while their end markets are fairly stable. If the supply chain between a company and its end-customer would have a stock depth of \"250 days' sales\", meaning that it takes at least 250 days for a molecule to travel from a companies' warehouse to the end consumer, and if each firm in such a 250-day supply chain decides to do active destocking of 12%, an amount of stock equal to 30 days' sales (a whole month) is taken out of the chain. For a company at the beginning of the supply chain this will result in either a business standstill for a whole month or a 33% decline during three months.\nThis discovery of active destocking, reactive destocking and the Lehman Wave can have important implications for manufacturing scheduling, inventory management, work force management and budgeting.\n\nWhile the existence of the bullwhip effect has been extensively documented (e.g., Forrester (1961), Sterman (1989), and Lee et al. (1997)) Croson and Donohue (2006), there have been arguments about its existence in the overall economy or in supply chains encompassing numerous companies. Cachon et al. (2007) recently argued that no evidence of the existence of the bullwhip effect could be found. Fransoo and Wouters (2000) and Chen and Lee (2009) argue that in order to observe the bullwhip effect it is crucial to measure it correctly. Both these papers argue that improper aggregation essentially takes away the opportunity to observe the bullwhip effect. In the beer distribution game (Sterman, 1989), the bullwhip effect is created by a single pulse. In Sterman's experiment, this single pulse is an increase in the demand level. In the case of the Lehman Wave that started in September 2008 the single pulse is a synchronized decrease in the target inventory level along the entire supply chain. A reduction of inventories under stable or slightly decreasing sales can only be achieved if purchases are reduced or postponed. As a consequence of the decision to reduce inventory, therefore, many companies substantially reduced their purchases of supplies or raw materials. Obviously, companies further upstream in the supply chain were hit more than companies downstream. So the Lehman Wave can be described as a synchronized bullwhip.\n\nIn economics, there has been an ongoing debate whether inventory smoothes production or whether it act as an accelerator of business cycles. Feldstein and Auerbach (1976) note that \"rarely [does] a study of inventory behavior fail[s] to note that some 75 percent of the cyclical downturn in gross national product from peak to trough can be accounted for by the reduction of business inventories\". Theoretical explanations of the inventory accelerator effect list aspects of the Lehman Wave phenomenon, such as delay in adjusting forecasts, but do not capture the essential layered structure of the supply chain. The latter is a novelty in the reasoning behind the Lehman Wave theory.\n"}
{"id": "48638635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48638635", "title": "Les Long", "text": "Les Long\n\nJames Leslie Robert Long (21 February 1915 – 12 April 1944), known as Cookie, was a British Vickers Wellington bomber pilot who was taken prisoner during the Second World War. He took part in the 'Great Escape' from Stalag Luft III in March 1944, but was one of the men re-captured and subsequently murdered by the \"Gestapo\".\n\nLong grew up in Somerset where his father owned a large grocery store, he was educated at Taunton. His father was a senior member of the Octagon Chapel a congregation of the Plymouth Brethren and Les Long grew up within the religious community. He was educated at Huish's Grammar School Taunton. Despite passing the entrance examination for Oxford University he was apprenticed to the General Accident Insurance Company to train as an inspector. After an adventurous holiday in Ireland he returned home and joined the Civil Air Guard determined to get his civil pilots licence. His call up papers were issued soon after war broke out and he applied for the Royal Air Force to complete his pilot training.\n\nOn 19 April 1940 Long commenced his service with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve with service number 922353 and by 24 December 1940 had been promoted to Leading Aircraftman and awarded his pilot brevet (wings). He was commissioned on 24 December 1940. He was posted to No. 19 Operational Training Unit to prepare for operational service with a squadron. \nOn 3 March 1941 he was posted to No. 9 Squadron RAF flying Vickers Wellington bombers. As a junior pilot he flew as second pilot in experienced crews to gain experience but his operational career was to be short.\nAt 19:43 hours on the evening of 27 March 1941 Long took off in a Wellington Mark Ic bomber (serial number \"R1335\") from RAF Honington to attack a target at Cologne, Germany. They suffered with engine problems but arrived at the target and bombed but at 2248 that night a message was received that the bomber was having to crash land in the Netherlands, it had been badly shot up by a Luftwaffe night fighter. The entire crew were made prisoner of war near Limbourg, Belgium. \nAs a prisoner of war he was interrogated by the Luftwaffe before being sent to Stalag Luft I Barth where he and his pilot, John Shore, immediately became involved in escape attempts involving tunneling out of the camp during one of which Shore got out and made it home to England via Sweden.\nLong was one of an initial batch of persistent escapers, who were sent to the new Stalag Luft III in the province of Lower Silesia near the town of Sagan (now Żagań in Poland) on 21 March 1942. He tried to escape during the transfer between camps but was recaptured. He was an enthusiastic tunneller, and did much to improve and lengthen tunnel codenamed \"Tom\".\n\nIn between tunneling Long studied economics with text books sent from home with a 2-day period of study during enforced bed time after an injury during tunnelling.\n\nHe was promoted to flying officer on 23 December 1941, and flight lieutenant on 23 December 1942.\n\nIn preparations for the Great Escape operation Long was one of the leading tunnellers. During the escape he made two emergency repairs to the tunnel due to roof falls and after breaking out quite late accompanied by Tony Bethell who was an appointed \"marshal\", one of the dozen men appointed to wait in the forest after escaping to collect a pre-selected group of ten men who would then be led westwards as initial stage guides Long joined a group known as the \"hard arsers\" because they planned to walk alone then entire trip homewards rather than catching trains. \nHe was one of the 76 men who escaped the prison camp on the night of 24–25 March 1944 in the escape now famous as \"the Great Escape\" but on the evening of 29 March 1944 Long and Tony Bethell arrived at Görlitz prison from Sagan police station where they had been held after recapture. Long's party had become lost in the dense forest and ended up beside the Russian compound of Stalag Luft III only to be set on the right direction by Tony Bethell who then teamed up with Long. They made excellent progress after that walking alongside the main railway line to Frankfurt (Oder) but found the trains travelling to fast to jump aboard. On 27 March 1944 they were arrested by German Home Guard and arrived at the collecting point for recaptured officers in Görlitz prison on 29 March 1944. Regularly groups of officers were taken away by the Gestapo in a variety of vehicles until just Long and Max Ellis remained at Görlitz They were regularly moved from cell to cell until finally being separated on 11 April 1944. Ellis saw Long on 12 April 1944 and on 13 April 1944 he asked to borrow Long's comb, but was told by a guard that \"he left yesterday\". No trace of Long was ever found.\n\nLong was one of the 50 escapers executed and murdered by the \"Gestapo\". He was cremated at Breslau. Originally his remains were buried at Sagan, he is now buried in part of the Poznan Old Garrison Cemetery. \n\nLong was named beside Stanislaw Krol and Pawel Tobolski on the supplementary list of prisoners \"shot while attempting to escape\" which was handed to prisoners at Stalag Luft III on 18 May 1944, though his name was not in the list of the murdered prisoners which was published in the press in the UK and Commonwealth countries when news broke on or about 20 May 1944. (Post-war investigations saw a number of those guilty of the murders tracked down, arrested and tried for their crimes.)\n\nShortly afterwards, a communication arrived from England to advise Long that he had successfully completed the requirements for a degree of Bachelor of Arts in Economics.\n\nReportedly Mentioned in despatches for bravery as a prisoner of war (none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously). Those awards to his fellow escapers were published in a supplement to the London Gazette on 8 June 1944, but the award to Long cannot be found there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14301828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14301828", "title": "List of Lalit Kala Akademi fellows", "text": "List of Lalit Kala Akademi fellows\n\nThe Lalit Kala Akademi Fellowship, also, Lalit Kala Akademi \"Ratna\" (Sanskrit \"ratna\", \"gem\") is an honour for the fine arts in India, given to eminent artists for their lifetime achievements in the field of visual arts. It is awarded by the Lalit Kala Akademi, India's National Academy of Art, it is the highest honour in the fine arts conferred by the Government of India.\n\nThe ‘Fellow,’ carries a purse-money of Rs.25,000/-, a citation and a plaque. The Fellow is honoured with a portfolio about their major art works. The first elected fellow, in 1955, was the artist Jamini Roy.\n\nNo. Name of the Fellow Year\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35982638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35982638", "title": "List of protests in Georgia (country)", "text": "List of protests in Georgia (country)\n\nThis is a list of protests in the Republic of Georgia:\n\n"}
{"id": "25855499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25855499", "title": "North of England Education Conference", "text": "North of England Education Conference\n\nThe North of England Education Conference (NEEC) was the UK’s biggest annual education conference. The first Conference took place in Manchester in 1903. The event provided an opportunity for senior decision makers in education, Children’s Services, the public sector, associated agencies and organisations to meet and consider the latest thinking and legislation affecting children and young people. In recent years the scope of the conference had expanded to encompass the broader children’s services agenda.\n\nDespite the conference name, delegates attended from across the UK and beyond. In recent years the conference took place outside of the North of England, including Belfast and Cardiff.\nIn 2015 the conference was to be hosted in Manchester between 14–16 January but was cancelled and has not been held since.\n\nWithin recent years the focus of the conference had expanded. Whilst still having education at its core, a broader children’s agenda was embraced. Attendees included Directors of Education, key elected members, headteachers, school governors, those engaged in research in Higher Education and partners from Health, Police and Voluntary Sector organisations.\n\nThe conference attracted high-profile speakers and notably the appropriate Secretary of State. This has included in recent years Ed Balls, Ruth Kelly, David Miliband, David Blunkett and Estelle Morris. The conference was often used as a platform to launch or 'sound out' changes in policy or legislation. Hosting authorities often worked in collaboration with local universities and colleges to tap into national and international expertise and research.\n\nHistorically the Conference has taken place each January and has alternated in venue between the east and west of the Pennines. On occasion however, the Conference has been held outside the North of England. In 2004 the NEEC was held in Northern Ireland in Belfast and in 2008, the NEEC paid its first visit to Wales and Cardiff. In January 2014 the last conference was held in Nottingham. \n\nReflecting changes in recent years in the delivery of services to children, young people and families the conference focus had begun to reflect the wider children’s agenda encapsulated in \"Every Child Matters: Change for Children\". Whilst the conference continued to provide high-profile speakers with an education focus, it had recently included speakers from other areas of the children’s workforce such as health, the police, business and the Third Sector. However the event, which generations of education policymakers viewed as a key moment of the year, now appears to be a thing of the past and by the time Michael Gove took over as education secretary in 2010, it was an event he was quite happy to miss, choosing to make major announcements elsewhere. No minister was due to appear in 2015.\n\nThe NEEC operated under the governance formed by its membership as part of the North of England Education Conference Association. This is defined as \"\"Those English Local Authorities within the Government Office areas for the North West, the North East and Yorkshire and the Humber, and also the higher education institutions lying in this area\".\" Representatives from the host authority, their predecessor and the following years host were represented in the governance.\n\nA strong feature of the conference is the involvement of children and young people. Traditionally involved in artistic, musical and dramatic performance they had begun to play a wider role in the content of the programme. In January 2012 Blackpool had a young person co-preside over the conference for the first time along with President, Ann Widdecombe. In Nottingham in 2014 there was a separate Youth Conference running alongside the main event run by young people from the eight Core Cities.\n\nIn 1902, having seen the success of a conference for science teachers in London, JH Reynolds, Manchester City Council's Director of Technical Instruction, decided to replicate the conference in his home town. The conference, also with a science theme, was arranged for 2 and 3 January 1903 and attended by 3,200 teachers, lecturers, inspectors and local government employees. Built on this success the conference widened the agenda to cover all areas of the curriculum. With short input from a range of professionals the, conference has remained true to the original template and remained a fixture in the first week of the year.\nIn 1924 the political dimension was added and the Secretary of the State of the day has usually been in attendance ever since, the conference often serving as a platform for announcement to changes in legislation or educational approaches. Over the course of its history this has included: Anthony Crosland, Kenneth Baker, Kenneth Clarke, Shirley Williams and Margaret Thatcher. Kenneth Clarke, on assuming his post as Secretary of State, is reported to have been told it was the one conference he could not afford to miss.\n\nThe Conference in Belfast was attended by almost 1,000 delegates and was considered one of the most successful NEECs; (the typical attendance in England is 500 delegates). Amongst the speakers was David Miliband MP who gave a speech on Personalised Learning.\n\nThe Centre for Educational Leadership at The University of Manchester hosted the Conference in 2005. The conference included the first public speech by the new Secretary of State for Education and Skills, Ruth Kelly, appointed just three weeks earlier following Charles Clarke's promotion to Home Secretary. The theme was 'Leading Together' and the aim, to demonstrate how schools, Higher Education and Local Authorities could collaborate to develop leadership potential and to lead education improvement. Speakers included Benjamin Zander, Conductor of the Boston Philharmonic and Dr Peter Senge, author of 'The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice of The Learning Organisation'.\n\nThe 2006 North of England Education Conference was held in Gateshead and consisted of three days of speakers, workshops and receptions. Speakers included Jane Davidson AM, the Minister for Education and Lifelong Learning, Ruth Kelly MP the Secretary of State for Education, Professor Al Aynsley-Green, the Children’s Commissioner for England and Dr Michael Fullan, the former Dean of the Ontario Institute for Studies for Education. There was also a formal Civic Reception and a Gala Dinner.\n\nThe Conference took place from 3–5 January 2007 at the Guildhall, Preston in Lancashire with the theme of ‘Investing for Achievement’. Jonathan Jansen, University of Pretoria, South Africa; Jude Kelly, Artistic Director, South Bank Centre and Leader of the 2012 Olympics Education and Culture Programme; Juan Manuel Moreno, Senior Education Specialist, The World Bank. The ministerial Address was given by Jim Knight MP, Minister of State for Schools and 14 - 19 Learners\n\nIn January 2008 the NEEC once again left the North West and was held in the Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff Bay, with workshops being hosted in various locations across the city and beyond.\n\nThe programme include presentations from Professor John Field from the University of Stirling and Professor David Hopkins from the Institute of Education at London University. In addition there were speeches from the journalist Fiona Millar and the former General Secretary of the Transport and General Workers Union, Bill Morris, Baron Morris of Handsworth. A civic reception was held in the Senedd Building; the home of the National Assembly hosted by the First Minister Rhodri Morgan AM.\n\nThe theme for the conference held in Wirral and Chester was ‘Growing People – Growing Minds’. The conference was notable in its embracing the wider children’s workforce in the programme. The conference president was Baroness Estelle Morris and speakers included Peter Fahy, Chief Contable Greater Manchester, Liz Railton CBE, Professor Sir David Watson, Dame Gillian Pugh, and with the new broader emphasis Dr David Colin Thomé giving a GPs perspective. The conference included the traditional political spot with input from David Willetts MP and Secretary of State Ed Balls who attended following a Cabinet Meeting in Liverpool. All schools in Wirral were involved in a ‘Performance Extravaganza’ held throughout Weather Head High School Media College.\n\nThe theme for York’s conference was ‘Unlocking Children’s Potential’ and had Sir Michael Bichard as conference president. Speakers included Sir Roger Singleton, Sir John Sorrell, Sir Andrew Motion, Dylan Wiliam and Beeban Kidron, British Television and Film Director. The political slot was filled by Vernon Coaker MP, Michael Gove MP and David Laws MP. An input by York’s Member of the UK Youth Parliament was well received by delegates. Delegates attended a civic reception at York Minster with a performance by a large children’s choir. The gala dinner made innovative use of the York Railway Museum. The conference in York went ahead successfully despite falling during a period of heavy snow which caused transport problems nationally for a number of days.\n\nThe theme for Blackpool’s conference theme was ‘Our World, Our Future’. The conference continued the development of previous events in opening the theme out to include aspects of the wider Children’s Services agenda.\n\nThe conference presidency was shared between Ann Widdecombe and a young person from the town. Conference speakers included Nick Gibb MP, Andy Burnham MP, Martin Bell, Baroness Estelle Morris, Dr Margaret Atkinson, Sir Paul Ennals, Steve Munby, Sharon Shoesmith, Sir Ian Kennedy, Saul Nasse, Professor Barry Carpenter, Sir Charles Pollard and Tanni Grey-Thompson. The conference took place between the neighbouring hotels Blackpool Hilton and The Imperial. The Gala Dinner was hosted in the Blackpool Tower Ballroom and featured dancing, circus skills and a performance on the world-famous Wurlitzer.\n\nLeeds City Council hosted the NEEC from 4–6 January 2012 under the title of, \"Passion, Potential, Performance\". Mick Waters, former Director of Curriculum at the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority was the conference president. The venue for the event was the Royal Armouries Museum.\n\nThe theme for Sheffield’s Conference was Mind, Brain, Community, Inspiring: Learners, Strengthening Resilience. The Conference was hosted by Sheffield City Council, the University of Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam University. \nThe Right Honorable David Blunkett MP was the President.\nConference speakers included: Dr. Isaac Prilleltensky, Professor Steven P R Rose, Professor Philip Davis, Marlo Winstead, Baroness Campbell, Professor Kenneth Gergen, Professor Barry Carpenter, Sir Michael Wilshaw HMCI, Elizabeth Truss MP, Professor the Lord Robert Winston, Dr Steven Edwards, Jean Gross Professor Tanya Byron, Camila Batmanghelidjh, Matthew Syed, Lord Baker of Dorking and Charlie Taylor,\n\nThe Gala Event, ‘An Evening of Conversation’ was held in the Millennium Galleries & Winter Gardens, providing an opportunity for delegates to continue their conversations with the conference contributors, and included food and entertainment. The conference took place at Sheffield Hallam University.\n\nNottingham City Council hosted the 2014 NEEC. It took place from 15–17 January 2014 at Nottingham Conference Centre. The 2014 conference was entitled 'Education: Innovation, Creativity, Employability'.\n\nSpeakers included David Puttnam, Charles Leadbeater, David Laws MP, Tristram Hunt MP, Matthew Hancock MP, Sir Michael Wilshaw and Dr Maggie Atkinson.\n\n"}
{"id": "16567891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16567891", "title": "Paradis Latin", "text": "Paradis Latin\n\nThe Paradis Latin is a theater at number 28, rue du Cardinal Lemoine, in the Latin Quarter of Paris, in the fifth arrondissement, near Notre-Dame, the Panthéon, and the Tour d'Argent restaurant. The closest métro stations are Cardinal Lemoine and Jussieu. \nIt was first built on the rue des Fosses-Saint-Victor in 1803 and called Théâtre Latin. It burned down in 1870, but was rebuilt on the rue du Cardinal Lemoine, as Paradis Latin in 1887–1889 by Gustave Eiffel. It was closed around 1900, but was rehabilitated, starting in 1973, and reopened, in 1977, as a cabaret.\n\nParadis Latin goes back to 1802, when the First Consul Napoleon Bonaparte built the Latin Theater, on the rue des , and opened in 1803.\n\nIn 1830, the Latin Theater became one of the highlights of the Parisian nights where artists, bourgeois, writers, poets, journalists, politicians, intellectuals, students, workers, merchants, aristocrats ... Honoré de Balzac, Alexandre Dumas, Alexandre Dumas fils and Prosper Mérimée were regulars. It was destroyed by a fire during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870, when Prussian Chancellor Otto von Bismarck besieged Paris. Its ruins remained for 17 years.\n\nIn 1887, during the preparation of the Paris Exhibition of 1889, Gustave Eiffel reconstructed the theater at the same time as his tower. The new hall was inaugurated on Sunday, January 20, 1889, under the name of Paradis Latin, and was a complete poster every night, presenting revues and ballets. The year of the Exposition was a happy year for the Parisian show with among others: the Mandrake, a very acclaimed piece whose heroine of the evening was Yvette Guilbert (), immortalized by Toulouse Lautrec, who for several months was the star of the Song, and would become the interpreter of the composer Léon Xanrof.\n\nAs a direct competitor to Paradis Latin, cafés-concerts, more numerous than ever, all gave the same stereotyped spectacle. There was a beginning of the songs which invariably produced in front of the public, the comic-troupier, the poivrot, the gummeuse, the peasant comic, the patriotic singer. The directors of Paradis Latin then had the idea to call on acrobats, balancers, jugglers, contortionists, Chinese shadow-makers to complete and enrich their show. The new formula held only a few seasons. \n\nIn 1894, the great hall of the Paradis Latin closed its doors. Only the brasserie, starring Chopinette, a pupil of Bruant() but with neither talent nor authority, and his clientele, largely made of students, did not allow him to survive beyond 1903. The immense location became a warehouse.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, Montmartre is now the fashionable district of Paris. The Paradis Latin suffers from this displacement and becomes an industrial area with glassmakers and faience potters who settle there.\n\nThe glass-maker Charles Leune() bought the place to install his workshop there. In 1930 a pharmaceutical company acquired it but left the place unoccupied for a long time.\n\nIn 1973, the real estate developer Jean Kriegel() bought the building at 28 and 28 bis rue de Cardinal Lemoine to rehabilitate the old building into apartments. Visiting the premises, he goes from room to room, and from surprise to surprise. Eighteen thousand pipettes and other stills litter the ground, abandoned by its last owner. As the walls and false ceilings are destroyed, the imposing metal structure of Eiffel is revealed, including fragments of posters and scenery, and a Paradis Latin poster. On the first floor, workers uncover an astonishing cathedral, gilt, columns, arches, capitals and a glorious painted cupola. After discovering the theater and seduced by the place, he decided to resurrect the 720-seat cabaret according to Eiffel's original plans.\n\nJean-Marie Rivière(), artistic director, assisted by the author Frédéric Botton(), presented the first Paris Paradis show on November 14, 1977, which was a triumph. The Latin Paradise has since regained its status as a high place of the Parisian nights.\n\nIn 1979 two years after the opening of \"Paris Paradis,\" Jean-Jacques Debout() and Roger Dumas() created the \"Nuit de Paradis\" show for Jean-Marie Rivière.\nIn 1981 a new show, \"Paradisiac,\" was produced and directed by Frédéric Botton () and Francis Lai(), who took a leave from his musical and film career for the project. \n\nThierry Paulin(), Jean-Thierry Mathurin(), and the artist Michel Berger() got their start at the theater. Arturo Brachetti(), considered the best quick change performer in the world, started his career at Paradis Latin in 1979. He was the only one in the world since the legendary Leopoldo Fregoli (1867-1937).\n\nThe artistic director, Jean-Marie Rivière, eventually retired to the Antilles, but the theater continued. New shows followed, co-written and directed by Christian Dura (): \"Champagne\" in 1984, then \"Hello Paradis\" in 1987, and \"Viva Paradis,\" which commemorates the hundredth anniversary of the theater.\nIn May 1995, a few years after the departure of his former colleague Riviére, Jean Kriegel chose to retire as well. Over nearly twenty years, he had hosted some two million spectators, with six different shows and over 1600 performances.\n\nManagement has since been transferred to Sidney Israel and his son Harold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "494716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=494716", "title": "Ragam (festival)", "text": "Ragam (festival)\n\nRagam is the annual inter-college fest conducted by the National Institute of Technology, Calicut. Ragam blends a series of fine-arts, socio-cultural and literary events, along with a variety of workshops, exhibitions and informal events. The fest attracts thousands of visitors to the campus annually, and is one of the biggest cultural fests in India.\n\nOver two decades have passed since the inception of Ragam. The humble yet controversial beginnings of this festival are well-known due to the famous Rajan case that rocked Kerala in the seventies. Rajan, a student of the then-CREC was taken into police custody during the Emergency period and allegedly died in custody in 1976. In 1977 the All Kerala Rajan memorial music competition was started to commemorate his life. However, the same got discontinued in a few years. Later in 1987 the fest resurfaced as Ragam, an inter-college cultural fest in remembrance of Rajan. The prestigious ever-rolling Ragam trophy of \"Nataraj\", the trophy awarded to the overall champions at the fest, is considered as one of the most coveted prizes by the colleges in South India. The 31st edition of the fest was conducted in March 2017. The 32nd edition of Ragam was held from 23-25 March 2018.\n\nThe Ragam pro-shows have always been noted for the celebrities who have performed at NIT Calicut. The shows are staged in the institute OAT (Open Air Theatre), with a capacity of over 6000 spectators. Presently the Ragam \"nites\" include four cultural nites - ‘the inaugural nite’, ‘the highlight pro-show’, ‘the popular nite’ and ‘the rock show nite’.\n\nFor the highlight pro-show, NIT Calicut has previously hosted some of the biggest singers in the country including popular youth icon Sunidhi Chauhan, Sukhwinder Singh, Shaan, Krishnakumar Kunnath (KK), Farhan Akhtar, Sonu Nigam and Ankit Tiwari. Most recently for Ragam'18, spectators had the opportunity to watch Vishal Shekar perform live.\n\nBenny Dayal, Naresh Iyer, Ranjith, Suraj Jagan and many more have taken the stage for the ‘Popular nite’, where a group of two or more singers perform for the crowds.\n\nNotable bands that have visited the fest in the past are Parikrama, Silk Route, Whitenoise and Motherjane along with tribute bands like Higher-on-maiden, Breathe the Floyd and Jail break. In 2011, Ragam witnessed a breathtaking performance by the 'Jai Ho' team. In 2009 Ragam became the first stage in Kerala to host a foreign band, with Breathe the Floyd, a tribute band to Pink Floyd.\nIn 2015 Ragam truly went international, with Swiss folk metal band Eluveitie performing for the 'nite'. Sunburn Campus featuring DJ Diego Miranda for the first time in India took Ragam to new heights.\n\nRagam offers a plethora of over 50 events – literary, musical, dance, dramatics and more. Popular literary and oratory events include Extempore, Just-A-Minute(JAM), Debate, Twist in the tale and Mock Court. The musical events include a wide range of both solo events and group events like Swara Raaga and Amplified. The fest also includes a comprehensive set of artistic events extending from pencil sketching to mehendi design and face painting. For the dramatically-inclined, mime, streetplay, mono-act and drama are major crowd-pullers.\n\nThe Choreo Nite (Inter-collegiate dance competition) and Couture Boulevard (Fashion Show) are two of the biggest and fiercely contested events at Ragam. Mr.&Ms. Ragam is one of the signature events of Ragam, aimed at testing the persona of the contestants through a series of professionally scrutinized rounds.\n\nThe ‘Take One’ short film competition is one of the most prestigious events of Ragam, with the competition being judged each year by prominent film-makers in the industry with the winners getting golden opportunities to interact with some of these brilliant minds. \n\nEvery year, thousands of the finest talents in the country compete for the lucrative cash prizes on offer, and above all, the ever-rolling Ragam trophy \"Nataraj\".\n\nBesides the numerous events and the glamorous proshows, many workshops are conducted for the participants coming from various colleges with varied interests. The workshops over the years have included numerous Dance workshops, Photography workshops, Self-defense workshops and Mocktail workshops. Several Exhibitions are also conducted as a part of Ragam with the quality of these exhibitions increasing with each successive editions.\n\nBeing one of the biggest cultural fests in India, Ragam receives extensive coverage by newspapers, TV channels and other media. Noted dailies like The Hindu, Malayala Manorama, Mathrubhumi, The Times of India and The Deccan Chronicle have been media partners at Ragam over the years. TV channels like Kairali and Rosebowl have partnered with the fest in the past. In ’09 edition, one of the events \"Talking Point\" was aired on the channel Rosebowl. Radio Media has also played a significant role, with stations like Radio Mango and Red FM on the list of previous sponsors.\nThe fest also receives huge online publicity, with a large fan following for its Facebook page. The Ragam theme song is currently the second most viewed promotional video of a cultural fest in India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20311666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20311666", "title": "Republic of San Marco", "text": "Republic of San Marco\n\nThe Republic of San Marco (), an Italian revolutionary state, existed for 17 months in 1848–1849. Based on the Venetian Lagoon, it extended into most of Venetia, or the \"Terraferma\" territory of the Venetian Republic, suppressed 51 years earlier in the French Revolutionary Wars. After declaring independence from the Habsburg Austrian Empire, the republic later joined the Kingdom of Sardinia in an attempt, led by the latter, to unite northern Italy against foreign (mainly Austrian but also French) domination. But the First Italian War of Independence ended in the defeat of Sardinia, and Austrian forces reconquered the Republic of San Marco on 28 August 1849 following a long siege.\n\nAfter existing as an independent maritime republic for 1101 years and a leading naval power in the Mediterranean for most of that time, the Republic of Venice surrendered to Napoleon during the French Revolutionary Wars in 1797 and was ceded to the Austrian Empire (as the kingdom of Lombardy-Venetia) by the Treaty of Campo Formio a few months later. This was confirmed by the 1815 Congress of Vienna.\n\nAustrian rule, after realising that mutually-agreeable home rule would not be possible, exploited Venetian resources, economically and politically, favouring Trieste as the imperial seaport. Within 50 years of their acquisition of the former republic, Austria had taken 45 million Austrian lire more from the region than had been spent there and Venetian capitalism had been stifled by a reluctance on the part of the slow, bureaucratic Habsburg régime to grant credit to Venetian entrepreneurs. By the end of the 1840s, a collection of intellectuals, urban manufacturers, bankers, merchants and agrarian inhabitants of the \"terra ferma\" were clamouring for political change and greater economic opportunity, albeit only by non-violent means.\n\nAcross Italy, discomfort with foreign domination and with absolute monarchy had led to all Italian states (apart from Lombardy–Venetia) becoming parliamentary monarchies with much of the reform led by Pope Pius IX. Heavy-handed policing in response to an economic boycott of state monopolies in Austrian-held Milan led to the popular expulsion of the Austrian garrison in the city for five days in March 1848.\n\nShortly after, the news of revolt in Vienna spreading to Venice lead the city to revolt against the Austrian rule, with the beginnings of Venetian independence.\n\nA few days after the independence of Milan and Venice and their affiliation to the Kingdom of Piedmont–Sardinia, the Piedmontese army crossed into Lombardy on 24 March 1848, with the Austrian commander, Field Marshal Radetzky pulling back to the Quadrilatero, a chain of defensive fortresses between Milan and Venice. Two days previously, Daniele Manin entered the Venetian Arsenal with \"a number of public-spirited Venetians\", in a direct challenge to Austrian rule. As the \"Arsenalotti\" detested the Austrian overseers and the Italians in Austrian military service were pro-Venetian, Manin and his supporters moved about at will, unharmed. Believing that the timing was favourable, Manin led his followers out of the compound with the cry \"Viva San Marco!\" ()—the motto of the defunct Republic of Venice. Venetians, if not Austrian officials, accepted this to mean restoration of the old republic. With the exception of Verona, garrisoned as part of the Quadrilatero, the cities of Venetia — in particular Belluno, Padua, Rovigo, Treviso, Udine and Vicenza—immediately sided with the lagoon and rejected Austrian rule, proclaiming Manin president of the Republic of San Marco and investing him with dictatorial powers during the state of emergency. Manin's leadership was supported by the middle classes, revealing a permanent change in power from the mercantile patricians of the old republic, and his support of the lower classes, combined with promises of law and order to the bourgeoisie, meant his leadership was popular. Unfortunately, however, Manin did not have the leadership qualities that might have led to enduring independence.\n\nKing Charles Albert of Sardinia had occupied Milan and other Austrian territories with his army. But despite popular support in the Papal States, the Tuscany, and the Two Sicilies for the Sardinian campaign, he chose to seek plebiscites in the occupied territories, rather than pursuing the retreating Austrians.\n\nDespite enthusiastic support for Sardinia by the revolutionaries (the Republic of San Marco and Giuseppe Mazzini's Milanese volunteers), the Austrians started to regain ground. But the Austrian government was distracted by the Vienna Uprising, the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, and other Revolutions of 1848 in the Habsburg areas. So Radetzky was instructed to seek a truce, an order he ignored.\n\nWhile Austria was pressed on every front, the Italians allowed her time to regroup and to reconquer Venice and the other troubled areas of the empire one by one.\n\nMilitarily, misreadings of the fluctuating political status in northern Italy—combined with Manin's indecision and ill-health, which confined him to bed at critical moments—led to several damaging poor judgements by Venice. The Austrian fleet was stationed in the formerly-Venetian port of Pola, in Istria. Despite Venice having much sympathy there, they made no effort to seize the fleet. Similarly, had the Venetians encouraged the desertion of Lombard-Venetian soldiers from the Austrian army, such trained and disciplined troops might have bolstered the Venetian army.\n\nThe Venetian revolutionaries also failed to incorporate the \"terra ferma\" (the Venetian mainland) into the lagoon-based republic effectively. While revolutionary reform generated some popular support for the new régime, the revolutionaries recruited few troops there. Mainlanders were mistrustful of Venetian power, probably as a result of old assumptions about the earlier Mariner Republic. This combined with destructive foraging and other damage, which might have been avoided had the revolutionaries recruited across \"terra ferma\". While most of the middle and upper classes still supported the fight for independence, the lower classes of \"terra ferma\" were largely indifferent. The Venetian and Lombard troops of Radetzky's army remained mostly loyal and actively fought for Austria. Mainland recruits could have combined with the 2,000 Papal guards and Neapolitan soldiers under General Pepe, who ignored orders to retreat in favor of supporting the infant republics. But when Austrians under Nugent marched on Verona, and General Durando led a Piedmontese force to defend, Venice could only supply a few volunteers, later joined by Colonel Ferrari's Papal regulars. This was of no avail, as Nugent's force met up with Radetzky's forces and took Verona easily.\n\nMeanwhile, Manin retreated from his republican fervor, for fear of offending Charles Albert; this move was, however, both transparent and ineffectual. He also relied on reinforcement by Piedmontese and Papal troops, not understanding that Piedmont would not welcome a powerful republican neighbour when monarchies were under threat across Europe, or that Pope Pius IX could not continue to support war between two Catholic monarchs practically on his border. After the Italian rout at the Battle of Custoza on 29 July, Charles Albert abandoned Milan. When Radetzky offered its citizens free passage from the city, half the population left.\n\nOn 4 July 1848, the Venetian assembly voted 127–6 to approve Manin's proposal of subsumption into the Kingdom of Sardinia. This lasted only a month, as on 9 August Charles Albert signed an armistice that restored the Piedmontese border at the Ticino River. At the same time, the Piedmontese navy abandoned its support of Venice.\n\nIn early October, followers of Giuseppe Mazzini tried to organize a great republican demonstration, hoping to gain aid from the French Second Republic, convert the city into a centre of Italian liberation, and inspire Garibaldi into an anti-Austrian crusade. But Manin, to avoid offending Charles Albert, suppressed them. A \"federal congress\" was to meet in Turin on 12 October 1848, and Prime Minister Vincenzo Gioberti of Piedmont invited Venice to send delegates, but the Venetians declined. The revolutionary authorities' reaction to Piedmont's declaration of war on Austria illustrated their failure to grasp realities — the Venetian assembly recessed for two weeks.\n\nThe crushing defeat of Italian forces at the Battle of Novara (23 March 1849) sounded a death knell for Italian independence from the Austrians. To avoid an occupation of Piedmont, Charles Albert abdicated in favour of his son Victor Emmanuel II, whose treaty with Austria required the complete removal of the Sardinian navy from Venetian waters. Manin addressed the Venetian assembly on 2 April 1849 and they voted to continue their struggle against the Austrians, despite an Austrian blockade of the city. On 4 May 1849, Radetzky started his attack on the Venetian fort of Marghera, held by 2500 troops under the Neapolitan command of Girolamo Ulloa. Bombardment of the lagoon and city started at the same time and, over the next three weeks alone, were dispatched towards Venice. The fort at Marghera held out until 26 May, when Ulloa ordered its evacuation; an offer of surrender from Radetzky was rejected at this time.\n\nBy August, with famine and cholera sweeping the city, Manin proposed that the assembly vote for surrender, threatening to resign if the assembly votes to fight to the last. The assembly, however, agreed, and provided the president with authority to seek terms, which were agreed on 22 August. Radetzky's entrance to Venice on 27 August marked the complete surrender of Venice to the Austrian Empire, restoring the \"status quo ante bellum\" and causing Manin to flee Italy, with his family and 39 fellow-revolutionaries, into exile. Manin's wife died of cholera within hours of their departure for Paris.\n\nLeadership was effectively provided by Daniele Manin throughout the republic's brief existence, but the following heads of state were in place during the 17 months:\n"}
{"id": "7407293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7407293", "title": "Rodrigo Duterte", "text": "Rodrigo Duterte\n\nRodrigo Roa Duterte, (; ; born March 28, 1945), also known as Digong and Rody, is a Filipino politician who is the 16th and current President of the Philippines and the first from Mindanao, the southernmost major island group of the country, to hold the office. He is the chair of the ruling PDP–Laban party. Taking office at 71 years old in June 2016, Duterte is the oldest person to assume the Philippine presidency; the record was previously held by Sergio Osmeña at the age of 65.\n\nDuterte studied political science at the Lyceum of the Philippines University, graduating in 1968, before obtaining a law degree from San Beda College of Law in 1972. He then worked as a lawyer and was a prosecutor for Davao City, a highly urbanized city on Mindanao island, before becoming vice mayor and, subsequently, mayor of the city in the wake of the Philippine Revolution of 1986. Duterte was among the longest-serving mayors in the Philippines, serving seven terms and totaling more than 22 years in office.\n\nFrequently described as a populist and a nationalist, Duterte's political success has been aided by his vocal support for the extrajudicial killing of drug users and other criminals. Human rights groups have documented over 1,400 killings allegedly by death squads operating in Davao between 1998 and May 2016; the victims were mainly drug users, petty criminals and street children. A 2009 report by the Philippine Commission on Human Rights confirmed the \"systematic practice of extrajudicial killings\" by the Davao Death Squad. Duterte has alternately confirmed and denied his involvement. The Office of the Ombudsman closed an investigation in January 2016 stating that they found no evidence that the Davao Death Squad exists, and no evidence to connect the police or Duterte with the killings. The case has since been reopened. Duterte has repeatedly confirmed that he personally killed criminal suspects as mayor of Davao.\nOn May 9, 2016, Duterte won the Philippine presidential election with 39.01% of the votes, defeating four other candidates, namely Mar Roxas of the Liberal Party (23.4%), Senator Grace Poe (21.6%), former vice president Jejomar Binay of the United Nationalist Alliance (12.9%), and the late Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago of the People's Reform Party (3%). During his campaign, he promised to kill tens of thousands of criminals and end crime within six months. His domestic policy has focused on combating the illegal drug trade by initiating the Philippine Drug War. According to the Philippine National Police the death total passed 7,000 in January 2017, after which the police stopped publishing data. Following criticism from United Nations human rights experts that extrajudicial killings had increased since his election, Duterte threatened to withdraw the Philippines from the UN and form a new organization with China and African nations. He has declared his intention to pursue an \"independent foreign policy\", and sought to distance the Philippines from the United States and European nations and pursue closer ties with China and Russia.\n\nDuterte was born on March 28, 1945, in Maasin. His maternal grandfather was a Chinese immigrant from Xiamen, Fujian. His father was Vicente G. Duterte (1911–1968), a Cebuano lawyer, and his mother, Soledad Duterte (née Roa; 1916–2012), was a school teacher from Cabadbaran, Agusan and a civic leader of Maranao descent. Duterte's father was mayor of Danao, Cebu, and subsequently the provincial governor of (the then-undivided) Davao province. Rodrigo's cousin Ronald was mayor of Cebu City from 1983 to 1986. Ronald's father, Ramon Duterte, also held the position from 1957 to 1959. The Dutertes consider the Cebu-based political families of the Durano and the Almendras clan as relatives. Duterte also has relatives from the Roa clan in Leyte through his mother's side. Duterte's family lived in Maasin, and in his father's hometown in Danao, until he was four years old. The Dutertes initially moved to Mindanao in 1948 but still went back and forth to the Visayas until 1949. They finally settled in the Davao Region in 1950. Vicente worked as a lawyer engaged in private practice. Soledad worked as a teacher until 1952 when Vicente entered politics.\n\nDuterte went to Laboon Elementary School in Maasin, for a year. He spent his remaining elementary days at the Santa Ana Elementary School in Davao City, where he graduated in 1956. He finished his secondary education in the High School Department of the then Holy Cross College of Digos (now Cor Jesu College) in today's city of Digos in the now defunct Davao province, after being expelled twice from previous schools, including one in Ateneo de Davao University (AdDU) High School due to misconduct. He graduated in 1968 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science at the Lyceum of the Philippines in Manila. He obtained a law degree from San Beda College of Law in 1972. In the same year, he passed the bar exam. Duterte eventually became Special Counsel at the City Prosecution Office in Davao City from 1977–79, Fourth Assistant City Prosecutor from 1979–81, Third Assistant City Prosecutor from 1981–83, and Second Assistant City Prosecutor from 1983–86.\n\nDuterte has said that he was sexually abused by a priest when he was a minor. After he was challenged by the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) and AdDU officials to name the priest and file a case against him, Duterte then revealed the priest's name as Fr. Mark Falvey, SJ (d. 1975). The Jesuits of the Society of Jesus in the Philippines confirmed that according to press reports in the United States, in May 2007, the Society of Jesus agreed to a tentative payout of USD16 million to settle claims that Falvey sexually abused at least nine children in Los Angeles from 1959 to 1975. Accusations against Falvey began in 2002, and he was never charged with a crime. Additionally in May 2008, the Diocese of Sacramento paid $100,000 settlement to a person allegedly raped and molested by Mark's brother, Fr. Arthur Falvey. However, it was not clearly indicated in the report if Mark Falvey was assigned at the Jesuit-run Ateneo de Davao. When asked why he did not complain when the abuse supposedly happened, Duterte claimed that he was too young to complain about the priest's abuse and was intimidated by authorities at that time. He also stated that he never disclosed that information after he was expelled and moved to a different high school and especially not to his family.\n\nDuterte stated at a rally in April 2016 that he shot a fellow student who had bullied him about his Visayan origin as well as other students of the same ethnicity, while at San Beda law college. He said \"But the truth is, I'm used to shooting people. When we were about to graduate from San Beda, I shot a person.\" Duterte said that he shot the student in a corridor at the college when the said student called him names again. He later told a reporter that the student survived, but refused to answer any further questions about the incident.\n\nAfter the 1986 People Power Revolution, Duterte was appointed officer-in-charge vice mayor by president Corazon Aquino. In 1988, he ran for mayor and won, serving until 1998. He set a precedent by designating deputy mayors that represented the Lumad and Moro peoples in the city government, which was later copied in other parts of the Philippines. In 1998, because he was term-limited to run again for mayor, he ran for the House of Representatives and won as Congressman of the 1st District of Davao City (under the Laban ng Makabayang Masang Pilipino coalition). In 2001, he ran again for mayor in Davao and was again elected for his fourth term. He was re-elected in 2004 and in 2007.\n\nIn 2013, Davao City sent rescue and medical teams to Tacloban to give aid to the victims of Typhoon Haiyan, locally known in the country as Typhoon Yolanda. Financial assistance was also given to Bohol and Cebu for the earthquake victims.\nIn 2010, he was elected vice mayor, succeeding his daughter, Sara Duterte-Carpio, who was elected as mayor. He has been offered the Interior Secretary post 4 times, by presidents Fidel V. Ramos, Joseph Ejercito Estrada, Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and Benigno S. Aquino III, but rejected all of them.\n\nDuterte also passed the city's Women Development Code, which aims \"to uphold the rights of women and the belief in their worth and dignity as human beings\". Duterte banned swimsuit competitions in beauty pageants in Davao City. Duterte also gained prominence for supporting the first-ever Gawad Kalinga Village inside a jail facility which is only located in Davao City. It is a home-type jail with ten cottages built inside the compound, which now serve as home for women inmates.\n\nDavao has the highest murder rate, the second highest rape rate, and the fourth highest number of index crimes in the country, according to official police raw data for the years 2010 to 2015. Nevertheless, Duterte claims that the city is one of the world's safest, a narrative that gained currency in the national media, creating a widespread public perception that has been a significant factor in establishing support for his nationwide drug policy.\n\nProstitution in the Philippines is illegal. In Davao, by city ordinance, police ensure that prostitutes have a valid health card, but do not arrest them. In 2010, the Philippine Child Protection Unit stated that Davao was one of the top five areas for child prostitution and sex tourism in the Philippines. Jeanette Ampog, the executive director of Talikala, a Davao-based NGO that helps prostitutes, said in October 2016 that child prostitution had sharply increased over the past two years. She said that children were cheaper and more marketable. Nevertheless, the city was awarded \"Most Child-Friendly City for Highly-Urbanized Category\" in 1998, 1999, 2013 and 2014.\n\nThrough the support of Duterte, the City Council amended ordinance No. 1627, Series of 1994, to impose a prohibition on selling, serving, drinking, and consuming alcoholic beverages from 01:00 until 08:00 each morning. Executive Order No. 39 was signed by Duterte, reducing the speed limits for all kinds of motor vehicles within the territorial jurisdiction of Davao City in the interest of public safety and order. Duterte also signed Executive Order No. 04, Series of 2013 to impose an order creating the implementing of rules and regulations for the new comprehensive anti-smoking ordinance no. 0367-12, Series of 2012. Davao City's Firecracker Ban was also implemented with ordinance No. 060-02/1406-02, Series of 2002 by the City Council through the support of Duterte.\n\nAnother known accomplishment was that the City Government of Davao was able to acquire 10 more ambulances for central 911 intended for medical emergencies and 42 new mobile patrol vehicles and motorcycles for the Davao City Police Office (the first and only 9-1-1 emergency telephone number in Asia which is also free of charge). Duterte, through Executive Order No. 24, ordered all shopping malls and commercial centers to install, operate and maintain high end and high definition closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras at all entrance and exit points of their premises.\n\nIn 2015, Davao City is among the local government units awarded with a \"Seal of Good Local Governance\" by the Department of the Interior and Local Government.\n\nDuterte, who has been dubbed \"The Punisher\" by \"Time\" magazine, has been linked by human rights groups such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch to extrajudicial killings of over 1,400 alleged criminals and street children by vigilante death squads. In the April 2009 UN General Assembly of the Human Rights Council, the UN report (Eleventh Session Agenda item 3, par 21) said, \"The Mayor of Davao City has done nothing to prevent these killings, and his public comments suggest that he is, in fact, supportive.\" Human Rights Watch reported that in 2001–2002, Duterte appeared on local television and radio and announced the names of \"criminals\", some of whom were later executed. In July 2005 at a crime summit at the Manila Hotel, Duterte said, \"Summary execution of criminals remains the most effective way to crush kidnapping and illegal drugs\".\n\nDuterte has denied responsibility for the extrajudicial killings. He has also frequently announced his support for them. According to Reuters, \"Duterte's loud approval for hundreds of execution-style killings of drug users and criminals over nearly two decades helped propel him to the highest office of a crime-weary land.\" In 2009 Duterte said: \"If you are doing an illegal activity in my city, if you are a criminal or part of a syndicate that preys on the innocent people of the city, for as long as I am the mayor, you are a legitimate target of assassination.\" In 2015, Duterte confirmed his links to extrajudicial killings in Davao, and warned that, if elected president, he may kill up to 100,000 criminals. After the said confirmation, Duterte challenged human rights officials to file a case against him if they could provide evidence to his links with vigilante groups.\n\nIn September 2014, Duterte and former mayors and governors, calling themselves the Mindanao Council of Leaders, advocated for a federalist government. A month later, Duterte attended an event sponsored by the Federal Movement for a Better Philippines in Cebu City. In December 2014, Duterte held a summit entitled Mindanawons Forging Unity Toward a Federal System of Government.\n\nAs early as the first quarter of 2015, Duterte made hints to the media of his intention to run for president in the 2016 elections. However, he denied these plans numerous times amidst clamor from his supporters for him to run.\n\nIn January, Duterte said he would abolish Congress if he chose to run for President and was elected. On November 21, in a private gathering with fraternity brothers from San Beda College of Law, Duterte formally announced his presidential bid and also finally accepted Alan Peter Cayetano's offer to be his running mate, and named his daughter, Sara Duterte, as his substitute for Mayor.\n\nIn his campaign, he said he would introduce a federal parliamentary form of government. He also promised to kill tens of thousands of criminals and eradicate crime in six months.\n\nRodrigo Duterte campaigned for decentralization and a shift to federal government during the 2016 presidential election. In an October 2014 forum organized by \"Federal Movement for a Better Philippines\" in Cebu City prior to joining the presidential race, the then-mayor of Davao City called for the creation of two federal states for Moro people as a solution to the problems besetting Mindanao. Mayor Duterte said that Nur Misuari and his Moro National Liberation Front don't see eye-to-eye with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front which the administration of President Benigno Aquino III had inked a peace deal with. He also said that the \"template of the Bangsamoro Basic Law is federal\", but what is granted to the Bangsamoro should also be granted to other Moro groups and other regions in the country. In a dialogue with the Makati Business Club prior to the elections, Duterte said he is open to \"toning down the Constitution\" to accommodate more foreign investors to the Philippines. He also said he is open to up to 70 percent foreign ownership of businesses in the country and foreign lease of lands up to 60 years, but will \"leave it to Congress to decide\".\n\nAt a campaign rally on April 12, 2016, Duterte told supporters that, as Mayor, he thought he \"should have been first\" to rape Jacqueline Hamill, an Australian missionary who was gang-raped and killed during the 1989 Davao hostage crisis. He recalled examining her corpse: \nAfter being condemned for his comments, Duterte later apologized for the incident and acknowledged the comment as a \"bad remark\" saying he regretted his \"gutter language\" but would not apologize for being misinterpreted. He insists though that the remark was not a \"joke\" as reported by some media outlets, saying that he stated it in a narrative. He further said that he was not apologizing for stating the remark reasoning that he made the remark out of \"utter anger\" when he recalled the events. He threatened to sever diplomatic ties with the US and Australia, if elected, after their ambassadors criticized his comments.\n\nHis daughter Sara Duterte subsequently announced on social media that she was a rape victim, but would still vote for her father. He said that he doubted her story, jokingly referring to her as a \"drama queen\".\nIn a campaign speech on April 27 to business leaders, he said his presidency would be \"a bloody one\", but that he would issue \"a thousand pardons a day\" to police and soldiers accused of human rights abuses, and would also issue a presidential pardon to himself for mass murder at the end of his six-year term.\n\nOn May 30, 2016, the 16th Congress of the Philippines proclaimed Duterte as the President-elect of the Philippines after he topped the official count by the Congress of the Philippines for the 2016 presidential election with 16,601,997 votes, 6.6 million more than his closest rival, Mar Roxas. Camarines Sur representative Leni Robredo on the other hand, was proclaimed as the Vice President-elect of the Philippines with 14,418,817 votes, narrowly defeating Senator Bongbong Marcos by 263,473 votes.\n\nThe Presidency of Rodrigo Duterte began at noon on June 30, 2016, when he became the 16th President of the Philippines, succeeding Benigno Aquino III.\n\nAt the age of 71, Duterte became the oldest person ever elected to the presidency. Duterte is also the first local chief executive to get elected straight to the Office of the President, the second Cebuano to become president (after Sergio Osmeña), the third Cebuano-speaking president (after Osmeña and Carlos P. Garcia), the first Visayan from Mindanao and the fourth Visayan overall (after Osmeña, Manuel Roxas and Garcia).\n\nA Pulse Asia survey conducted from July 2–8 showed that Duterte had a trust rating of 91%, the highest of the six presidents since the Marcos dictatorship (the previous highest was Duterte's predecessor, Benigno Aquino III with 87%). One year after taking office his trust rating was 81%. Shortly after his inauguration on June 30, Duterte held his first Cabinet meeting to lay out their first agenda, which included the country's disaster risk reduction management, decongesting the Ninoy Aquino International Airport in Manila, the country's main gateway, and expressed his ideas and concerns regarding the territorial disputes in the South China Sea prior to the announcement of the verdict of the Philippines' arbitration case against China over the issue, which the Philippines later won. Four days later, on July 4, Duterte issued his first executive order entitled \"Reengineering the Office of the President Towards Greater Responsiveness to the Attainment of Development Goals\", allowing his Cabinet Secretary, Leoncio Evasco, Jr., to supervise over several agencies that focus on poverty reduction. On July 23, Duterte signed Executive Order No. 2 also known as the Freedom of Information Order.\nOn August 1, 2016, Duterte launched a 24-hour complaint office accessible to the public through a nationwide complaint hotline, 8888, while also changing the country's emergency telephone number from 1-1-7 to 9-1-1, which was first instituted in Davao City.\n\nOn August 7, Duterte approved the burial of former President Ferdinand Marcos at the Heroes' Cemetery in Taguig scheduled for October 18, saying that Marcos was qualified for the burial at the cemetery due to him being a \"former president and a soldier\". The decision was vehemently opposed, due to \"the brutal, oppressive and corrupt nature of Marcos's two-decade regime\". An online petition which received over 30,000 signatures stated:\nFollowing the September 2 bombing in Davao City that killed 14 people in the city's central business district, on September 3 Duterte declared a \"state of lawlessness\", and on the following day issued Proclamation No. 55 to officially declare a \"state of national emergency on account of lawless violence in Mindanao\". The Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP) were ordered to \"suppress all forms of lawless violence in Mindanao\" and to \"prevent lawless violence from spreading and escalating elsewhere\". Executive Secretary Salvador Medialdea said that the declaration \"[did] not specify the imposition of curfews\" and would remain in force indefinitely. He explained: \"The recent incidents, the escape of terrorists from prisons, the beheadings, then eventually what happened in Davao. That was the basis.\"\n\nIn December 2016, Duterte was ranked 70th on \"Forbes\" list of The World's Most Powerful People. On December 7, Duterte signed Executive Order No. 10 creating a consultative committee to review the 1987 Constitution of the Philippines. Duterte signed Executive Order 26 imposing a smoking ban in public places on May 16, 2017. In the same month, the Duterte administration began to implement the Anti-Distracted Driving Act. During his presidential campaign and transition, Duterte called for the reimposition of capital punishment in the country to execute criminals involved in \"heinous\" crimes, such as illegal drug trade, insisting on hanging.\n\nWhile adjusting to working and residing at the Malacañang Palace, Duterte divides his workweek between Manila and Davao City by spending three days in each city, utilizing the Malacañang of the South while in Davao.\n\nAfter his inauguration, Duterte gave a speech in Tondo, Manila, where he urged Filipino citizens to kill drug addicts. He asked the communist rebels known as the New People's Army to \"use your kangaroo courts to kill them to speed up the solution to our problem\".\n\nOn July 5, 2016, Duterte revealed the names of five police officials who were allegedly involved in illegal drug trade. On July 7, during a press conference, Duterte presented a chart identifying three Chinese nationals who serve as drug lords in the Philippines.\n\nThe \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" published a \"kill list\". Ifugao Representative Teddy Baguilat urged the Philippine House of Representatives to investigate the \"spate of extrajudicial killings and/or summary executions of suspected violators of laws on illegal drugs and other suspected criminals\". Senator and former Justice Secretary Leila de Lima urged Duterte's administration to cease the extrajudicial killings and said that she would file a resolution for the Philippine Senate to conduct an investigation. The militant group Bagong Alyansang Makabayan also asked Duterte to investigate the increasing number of extrajudicial killings. The Duterte administration demanded critics to provide evidence.\n\nDuterte has justified the drug war by claiming that the Philippines was becoming a \"narco-state\". According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the prevalence of drug use in the country is lower than the global average. Duterte has dismissed human rights concerns by dehumanizing drug users, stating in August 2016: \"Crime against humanity? In the first place, I'd like to be frank with you. Are they humans? What is your definition of a human being?\" In the first three months of Duterte's term in office, according to police figures, over 3,000 killings were attributed to his nationwide anti-drug campaign. More than half were attributed to vigilantes. At the beginning of October, a senior police officer told \"The Guardian\" that ten \"special ops\" official police death squads had been operating, and that he had personally been involved in killing 87 suspects. He described how the corpses were dumped at the roadside (\"salvage\" victims), or had their heads wrapped in masking tape with a cardboard placard labelling them as a drug offender, so that the killing would not be investigated. The chairman of the Commission on Human Rights, Chito Gascon, was quoted in the report: \"I am not surprised, I have heard of this.\" The Philippine National Police declined to comment. The report stated: \"although \"The Guardian\" can verify the policeman's rank and his service history, there is no independent, official confirmation for the allegations of state complicity and police coordination in mass murder.\"\n\nDuring the 2016 election, Duterte campaigned to restore the death penalty in the Philippines. Duterte, who won the election in May 2016, supports restoration of the death penalty by hanging. It has been reported that he wants capital punishment for criminals involved in illegal drugs, gun-for-hire syndicates and those who commit \"heinous crimes\" such as rape, robbery or car theft where the victim is murdered. Duterte has theatrically vowed \"to litter Manila Bay with the bodies of criminals\". In December 2016, the bill to resume capital punishment for certain \"heinous offenses\" swiftly passed out of Committee in the House of Representatives; it passed the full House of Representatives in February 2017. However, the law reinstating the death penalty stalled in the Senate in April 2017, where it did not appear to have enough votes to pass.\n\nNur Misuari's wife Tarhata Misuari received help from Duterte when he interceded on their behalf after the events of Zamboanga. Duterte has said that Moro dignity is what the MILF and MNLF are struggling for, and that they are not terrorists. He acknowledged that the Moros were subjected to wrongdoing, historical and in territory.\n\nDuterte was endorsed in the election by Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) leader Nur Misuari due to his background in Mindanao. Jesus Dureza was his second choice. Other Muslims also supported Duterte and denounced Roxas, the Aquino-supported pick.\n\nDuring the Mindanao Hariraya Eid al-Fitr 2016 convention in Davao City on July 8, 2016, Duterte vowed to address the Moro conflict and bring peace in Mindanao, assuring the Filipino Muslim community that \"something will change\" before the end of his term. He said that the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) and the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) both support his proposal for federalism in the Philippines, which he says is the only solution to the Bangsamoro peace process. Duterte said that if the proposal for the country's shift to federalism fails or is not desired by the Filipino people, he will vow to pass the Bangsamoro Basic Law, which would establish the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region. He also added that the Basic Law should benefit both MILF and MNLF, saying he is willing to negotiate with both secessionists to initiate a \"reconfiguration\" of territory.\n\nA crowd of Muslims were attending the speech by Duterte where he accused America of bringing terrorism to themselves, saying that terrorism is not the result of the Middle East. He railed against the actions undertaken in the Middle East by the USA. Duterte blamed the war on Mindanao on colonialist Christianity being brought to the Philippines in 1521 by Ferdinand Magellan, saying there was peace before that and that they were made to fight their \"Malay brother\" by Christians.\nThe Bud Dajo Massacre inflicted upon the Moros was mentioned by President Duterte to criticize the United States and its President Barack Obama. The massacre was cited a second time by Duterte in criticizing America while calling for the exit of American troops.\n\nOn November 6, 2016, Duterte signed an executive order to expand the Bangsamoro Transition Commission to 21 members from 15, in which 11 will be decided by the MILF and 10 will be nominated by the government. The commission was formed in December 2013 and is tasked to draft the Bangsamoro Basic Law in accordance with the Framework Agreement on the Bangsamoro\n\nThe MNLF and MILF both count some of Duterte's relatives in their ranks. The MNLF, MILF, and NPA all received a ceasefire from Duterte over the December holiday in 2016.\n\nThe Maute group, an ISIS-inspired terrorist group, had reportedly been able to establish a stronghold in Lanao del Sur since early 2016. The group had been blamed for the 2016 Davao City bombing and two attacks in Butig, Lanao del Sur, a town located south of Marawi, in 2016. Before the Duterte administration, the Philippine government had downplayed the threat of ISIS in the Philippines. Even after the February 2016 Butig clash with the Maute group, then-President Benigno Aquino III discounted the possibility of the Islamic State's presence in the country. He said that those behind the attack were just mercenaries wanting to be recognized by the Middle East-based terror group.\n\nIn November 2016, President Duterte confirmed the Maute group's affiliation with the Islamic State. Amidst fierce fighting in Butig on November 30, 2016, Duterte, in a command briefing in Lanao del Sur, warned the Maute group: \"\"Ayaw ko makipag-away sa inyo. Ayaw ko makipag-patayan,\" (I do not want to fight with you. I don't want us killing each other) but please, do not force my hand. I cannot be forever traveling here every month \"para lang makipag-usap\" (just to talk), \"at pagtalikod ko patayan na naman\" (and when I turn around, there's killing again). I do not want to mention anything, but please do not force my hand into it.\" On December 2, 2016, as the military regained control of Butig, the retreating Maute fighters reportedly left a note threatening to behead Duterte.\n\nOn May 23, 2017, clashes between Philippine government security forces and militants affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), including the Maute and Abu Sayyaf Salafi jihadist groups erupted in the city of Marawi.\n\nOn the same day, Duterte signed Proclamation No. 216 declaring a 60-day martial law in Mindanao following clashes between the AFP and the Maute group in Marawi, Lanao del Sur. He said that the implementation is similar to Proclamation No. 1081 and expressed the possibility of extending the scope of the martial law nationwide if deemed necessary.\n\nThe Battle of Marawi became the longest urban battle in the modern history of the Philippines.\n\nAccording to the Philippine government, the clashes began during an offensive in Marawi to capture Isnilon Hapilon, the leader of the ISIL-affiliated Abu Sayyaf group. A deadly firefight erupted when Hapilon's forces opened fire on the combined Army and police teams and called for reinforcements from the Maute group.\n\nMaute group militants attacked Camp Ranao and occupied several buildings in the city, including Marawi City Hall, Mindanao State University, a hospital, and the city jail. They also occupied the main street and set fire to Saint Mary's Cathedral, Ninoy Aquino School, and Dansalan College, which is run by the United Church of Christ in the Philippines (UCCP). The militants also took a priest and several churchgoers hostage.\n\nThe Armed Forces of the Philippines stated that some of the terrorists were foreigners who had been in the country for a long time, offering support to the Maute group in Marawi. Their main objective was to raise an ISIS flag at the Lanao del Sur Provincial Capitol and declare a \"wilayat\" or provincial ISIS territory in Lanao del Sur.\n\nThe fighting lasted for five months until October 17, 2017, the day after the deaths of militant leaders Omar Maute and Isnilon Hapilon. President Duterte declared Marawi as \"liberated from terrorist influence\". This was followed by another October 23, 2017 pronouncement of Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana that the five-month battle against the terrorists in Marawi had finally ended.\n\nIn July 2016, Duterte directed his peace process advisor for the CPP–NPA–NDF rebellion, Silvestre Bello III, to lead a government panel in resuming peace talks with the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP), the New People's Army (NPA), and the National Democratic Front (NDF) in Oslo, Norway, expressing hope that a peace treaty between the rebellions would be reached within a year. The first talks began on August 22–26, 2016, in which the parties agreed upon \"the affirmation of previously signed agreements, the reconstitution of the Joint Agreement on Safety and Immunity Guarantees which 'protects the rights of negotiators, consultants, staffers, security and other personnel involved in peace negotiations', and the accelerated progress for negotiations.\" In February 2017, due to recent attacks and kidnapping of soldiers by members of the NPA despite the imposed ceasefire by the government and the rebel groups, President Duterte cancelled all negotiations with the CPP–NPA–NDF and labeled them a terrorist group. He also ordered the arrest of all NDF negotiators. Military offensive against the group resumed after Duterte's cancellation of ceasefire.\n\nThe Duterte administration has vowed to pursue an \"independent foreign policy\" that would reject any meddling by foreign governments, reiterating Article II, Section 7 of the 1987 Constitution which states: \"The State shall pursue an independent foreign policy. In its relations with other states the paramount consideration shall be national sovereignty, territorial integrity, national interest, and the right to self-determination.\" In September 2016, Duterte said: \"We will observe and must insist on the time-honored principle of sovereignty, sovereign equality, non-interference and the commitment of peaceful settlements of dispute that will serve our people and protect the interests of our country.\"\n\nDuterte made his first international trips as president to Vientiane, Laos and Jakarta, Indonesia on September 5–9, 2016.\n\nFollowing his inauguration as president, Duterte mentioned his willingness to \"reorient\" his foreign policy towards China and Russia, particularly in the areas of trade and commerce. During an interview with Al Jazeera, he expressed his willingness to conduct joint military exercises with China and Russia. In September, Duterte said that he is considering purchasing military equipment, particularly weaponries and armaments, from China and Russia to strengthen the capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Philippines in addressing insurgency and counter-terrorism, saying that deals between the Philippines and the two countries are already in discussion and that the Chinese and Russian governments have offered the Philippines soft loans that would be payable in 2025.\nOn October 18–21, 2016, Duterte visited Beijing to meet with Chinese officials, including President Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang. While announcing his \"separation\" from the United States in front of Chinese and Filipino businessmen at the Philippines–China Trade and Investment Forum in Beijing on October 20, Duterte also said that he would realign himself with the Chinese ideological flow and that he might also travel to Russia to meet with President Vladimir Putin to \"tell him that there are three of us against the world – China, Philippines, and Russia\".\nOn November 20, 2016, Duterte met with Putin during the sidelines of the APEC summit in Lima, Peru. Duterte has praised Putin's leadership skills and called him his \"idol\". Putin also invited Duterte to visit Moscow. Duterte said that he would visit Moscow on May 25, 2017, where a defense cooperation agreement between the Philippines and Russia is expected to be finalized.\n\nDuring an interview with RT in November, Duterte said that the Philippines is \"not ready\" for military alliances with China and Russia due to the Mutual Defense Treaty signed between the Philippines and the U.S.; however, he clarified that the Philippines could seek stronger diplomatic cooperation with China and Russia, as well as other countries, \"to make the world more peaceful\". Russian Ambassador to the Philippines Igor Khovaev expounded on Duterte's statement by saying that the Russian government is offering a strategic partnership with the Philippines, not a military alliance, and added that Russia does not believe in establishing military alliances with Asia. However, Khovaev explained that the Russian government is open to assisting the Philippines in purchasing Russian-made weaponry.\n\nOn May 1, 2017, following a visit to three Chinese naval ships at the Port of Davao, Duterte expressed interest in conducting joint military exercises between the Philippine Armed Forces and China's People's Liberation Army in Mindanao, particularly in the Sulu Sea.\n\nOn July 12, 2016, the Permanent Court of Arbitration tribunal in the Hague announced its ruling in favor of the Philippines in its case filed under the Benigno Aquino III administration in 2013 against China on issues regarding the South China Sea under the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, including the latter's nine-dash line claim which the tribunal ruled had no legal basis. Three days after, during a testimonial dinner in San Juan, Duterte asked former President Fidel Ramos to lead the Philippine envoy to Beijing for bilateral negotiations with China over the disputes. Ramos accepted the offer on July 23, but resigned on October 31. During his first State of the Nation Address on July 25, Duterte said that his administration \"strongly affirms and respects\" the ruling and would use it as a guide to negotiate for a resolution on the territorial disputes. Duterte prefers to discuss the issue quietly and directly with China and has vowed not to raise the issue before the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Duterte said \"he would not want to antagonize China\" and would want to \"maintain good relations with China\" to \"create an environment where we sit down and talk directly\".\n\nOn October 12, Duterte declared his intention to terminate joint US–Philippine naval patrols in the South China Sea, which he believes could needlessly antagonize China. His reticent approach with China contrasts with his otherwise \"belligerent rhetoric and swaggering persona\"; he has received support for some political ads from an anonymous Chinese donor.\n\nOn October 20 in Beijing, Duterte and Chinese President Xi Jinping agreed to resume direct talks on the dispute.\n\nWhen then U.S. Secretary of State-designate Rex Tillerson threatened China's positions on the islands, the Philippines said that Tillerson was speaking for the U.S. only in the U.S.'s interest and prerogatives. Delfin Lorenzana, Duterte's Defense Secretary, rejected the possibility of war against China over the islands in the South China Sea.\nOn April 6, 2017, Duterte ordered the Armed Forces of the Philippines to occupy and fortify at least nine uninhabited islands in the South China Sea. He announced plans to visit the Philippine-administered Thitu (Pag-asa) Island during Independence Day and raise a Philippine flag there. Duterte also ordered the Philippine Navy to build structures on the Benham Rise in order to reassure the Philippines' sovereignty over the undersea region, following the sighting of Chinese survey vessels. He also announced plans to rename the Benham Rise to the Philippine Ridge. On April 12, Duterte canceled his plan to visit the Thitu (Pag-asa) Island, citing goodwill and friendship with China. On April 21, Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana announced the allocation of to develop the Thitu (Pag-asa) Island, despite rejection from the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The development of the island is expected to include the construction of a marine research center, beaching facilities, a radio station, an ice plant, and a power station, as well as the improvement of the Rancudo airstrip runway. On May 16, 2017, Duterte signed an executive order formally renaming the Benham Rise to the Philippine Rise.\n\nIn February 2018, the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" published aerial surveillance photos of Chinese military fortifications in the South China Sea which showed runways, hangars, control towers, helipads, radomes and multi-storey buildings on reefs across the region, described by the newspaper as \"island fortresses\". The photos, which were mostly taken in late 2017, were authenticated by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, which described them as \"the most complete, detailed batch of aerial pics available\", and stated that the \"photos show China is nearly done with its militarization of South China Sea\". Duterte's spokesman told reporters: \"[The region has] long been militarized. And the question is, what can we do?\" - which led to accusations of dereliction of his \"sacred core duty\" of defending Philippine territory.\n\nOn September 12, 2016, Duterte said that he is \"not a fan of the Americans\" and that he wants to \"reorient\" foreign policy with the United States. He requested that U.S. forces in Mindanao should leave the Philippines, specifically those who are part of the Operation Enduring Freedom, saying that it would \"inflame the situation with the Abu Sayyaf\". Duterte said on September 13 that he does not plan to cut ties with the United States, but wants to reiterate the administration's pursuit of an \"independent foreign policy\" in accordance with the Constitution; the administration will continue to honor mutual agreements like the Visiting Forces Agreement and the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement. On September 20, Duterte said: \"I never said get out of the Philippines, for after all, we need them there in the China Sea. We don't have armaments.\"\n\nOn September 27, Duterte vowed not to allow the U.S. government to interfere with the policies of his administration. He criticized the U.S. government for \"lecturing\" his administration on human rights amidst their campaign on illegal drugs and said that he will \"cross the Rubicon with the U.S.\" Duterte added that he plans to forge \"new alliances\" with China and Russia in trade and commerce. U.S. Department of State deputy spokesperson Mark Toner responded to Duterte's criticisms by saying that the Philippine–U.S. relations could still remain \"strong and unabated\" despite Duterte's criticisms. The following day, while addressing the Filipino community in Hanoi, Duterte said that the Balikatan military exercises and the joint naval patrols in the South China Sea between the Philippines and the U.S. in October would be \"its last\" in order to avoid provoking conflict with China.\n\nOn October 5, Duterte accused the U.S. of refusing to sell armaments to the Philippines and said that he would rather purchase armaments from China and Russia. In an attempt to repair relations with the U.S., Duterte's Defense Secretary, Delfin Lorenzana, said Duterte was \"misinformed\" about the U.S. alliance: \"Maybe, the defense ministry and the armed forces were remiss in providing him the correct information.\"\n\nOn October 6, Duterte's then-Foreign Secretary Perfecto Yasay Jr. denounced the idea of the Philippines being regarded as a \"little brown brother\" by the U.S. Yasay said that the Philippines had been \"failed\" by the U.S.\n\nOn October 20, while on a trip to Beijing, Duterte declared a \"separation\" from the United States which he stated had lost militarily, socially, and economically, and emphasized a realignment of the Philippines to move closer to China. During a press conference after arriving from Beijing, Duterte clarified that what he meant by \"separation\" was a \"separation of a foreign policy\" and not a severance of diplomatic ties, saying that it would not be feasible to cut diplomatic ties with the U.S. due to the large number of Filipino Americans. U.S. Department of State spokesperson John Kirby responded by saying: \"We are going to be seeking an explanation of exactly what the president meant when he talked about separation from the U.S.; it's not clear what that means and all its ramifications.\" On October 23, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs Daniel R. Russel traveled to Manila to seek clarification and explanation for Duterte's comments with Philippine officials, including Foreign Affairs Secretary Perfecto Yasay Jr. and Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana.\nOn November 7, Secretary Lorenzana clarified that the joint Balikatan exercises will continue along with the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement, but the Cooperation Afloat Readiness and Training amphibious landing exercises between the Philippine Marine Corps and the U.S. Navy would be discontinued. He specified that bilateral drills on counter-terrorism, humanitarian response, special operations, engineering projects, and civic action will remain, all of which have been approved by Duterte.\n\nFollowing the 2016 U.S. presidential election, Presidential Communications Secretary Martin Andanar offered \"warm congratulations\" to Donald Trump on his election victory. He said that Duterte \"look[ed] forward to working with the incoming administration for enhanced Philippines–US relations anchored on mutual respect, mutual benefit and shared commitment to democratic ideals and the rule of law\". While in Kuala Lumpur, Duterte personally congratulated Trump by greeting him \"Mabuhay!\" and expressed hope that the Trump administration would honor obligations and treaties signed between the Philippines and the U.S. On December 2, Duterte called then President-elect Trump to personally congratulate him once more and invited him to visit the Philippines for the Twelfth East Asia Summit in 2017, while Trump invited Duterte to visit him in New York City and Washington, D.C. after the former's inauguration. On April 29, 2017, President Trump called Duterte to inform him of his planned visit to the Philippines in November for the East Asia Summit. Trump also extended an invitation to Duterte to visit him at the White House. During their call, Duterte urged Trump to show restraint in dealing with North Korea over their nuclear weapons program, warning him that the region could suffer \"immensely\". Trump also praised Duterte's drug war during the call, telling him \"I just wanted to congratulate you because I am hearing of the unbelievable job on the drug problem\".\n\nDuterte has placed great importance on the Philippines' diplomatic relations with its ASEAN neighbors. Following tradition, his first trips outside the country were to Indonesia, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Brunei, and Singapore.\n\nIn 2017 the Philippines was chair and host to the ASEAN summits, a series of diplomatic conferences centering on the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). The culminating event was held in Manila on 10–14 November (31st summit). It was attended by ten Asean leaders.\n\nEarly in his term, Duterte's expletive-laden outbursts triggered the biggest exodus from stocks in a year and made the peso Asia's worst performer in September 2016. The Philippine currency was at a seven-year low and rounding out its worst month since May 2010. In the same month, the Philippine peso completed its biggest monthly decline since October 2000 amid the biggest outflow from the nation's stocks in a year. According to the Philippines' Finance Secretary Carlos Dominguez, the peso's slump this year is \"mainly due to a deteriorating trade outlook because of rising imports of capital goods, which is normal for a country that is growing very fast\". Currency strategists have, however, \"predicted a rebound once investors see beyond Duterte's words\".\n\nAfter 100 days in office, former president Ramos, a political ally-mentor of Duterte said that \"Duterte has been a huge disappointment and letdown\" and \"the government was losing badly by prioritizing a war on drugs at the expense of issues like poverty, living costs, foreign investment, and jobs\". Based on subsequent surveys conducted by the Social Weather Stations, optimism in the economic prospects under the Duterte administration remains \"excellent\" with more Filipinos believing that the quality of their lives will improve in the next 12 months. This is supported by polls conducted by Pulse Asia one year after Duterte took office, wherein approval (82%) and trust (81%) ratings for Duterte still remain very high.\n\nDuterte's verbal attacks especially to the US and EU are viewed by many Filipinos as a threat to their jobs especially those working for foreign companies. Mark Williams, chief of Asia economist at Capital Economics, said, \"Certainly, investors are worried by some of the things he's saying, he's really unnerved people\". The Philippine government, however, expects that employment, especially in BPO industries, will continue to keep on rising. Despite Duterte's bluster and the messy local politics however, the long-term view for the Philippine economy looks good and has even pessimists conceding that gross domestic product should grow close to 7% over the next three to five years. \"Twin catalysts of infrastructure spending and tax reform will drive the market over the next two years\", Dante Tinga, head of research at BDO Nomura in Manila, tells \"Barron's\". \"There's an investment boom under way, which I believe will help in rerating the market over the next 12 months.\"\n\nIn December, government data revealed that the Philippines' output of nickel ore fell 16 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, after the country, which is the world's top supplier of the metal, suspended some mines in a clampdown on environmental violations. Production dropped to 19.8 million tonnes in the nine months to September from 25.97 million tonnes a year ago, according to the data. According to Finance Secretary Carlos Dominguez, the \"Philippine economy is delivering the performance we anticipated, notwithstanding the political noise and a significant terrorist event in Mindanao\". Dominguez gave the assessment during the Banyan Tree Leadership Forum of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.\n\nOn November 7, 2016, Senator Leila de Lima, Duterte's chief government critic, filed a Supreme Court writ of \"habeas data\" against Duterte, testing the doctrine of presidential immunity, stating \"The verbal attacks on petitioner's womanhood and threats on her person are not covered by presidential immunity from suit because they are not the official act of a President\". The 20-page writ asked, \"Can a sitting President wage a personal vendetta against petitioner and use the resources of his powerful office to crucify her as a woman, a human being, and a duly elected senator in violation of her right to privacy in life, liberty and security?\" De Lima's counsel, De La Salle University College of Law dean Jose Manuel Diokno, said \"Immunity cannot be used to block this case. There is a blatant violation of the magna carta for women, code of conduct for public officials. We hope the Supreme Court will listen to the plea of Senator de Lima and give consideration to this petition because we believe it is of groundbreaking importance\".\n\nDuterte had repeatedly criticized De Lima for an alleged adulterous affair with her driver and her alleged \"propensity for sex\". He said in August 2016 that she was an \"immoral woman\" who had no right to criticize the extrajudicial killings because she had \"a very sordid personal and official life\". She was subsequently removed from her position chairing a Senate committee investigating the killings, and was then forced to leave her home out of fear for her safety. The writ cited several cases of Duterte admitting that he wanted to drive her to suicide. De Lima demanded to know which foreign country had assisted Duterte in his surveillance of her private conversations, as he had claimed, and how it was carried out.\n\nPresidential spokesperson Ernesto Abella said that \"Senator Leila de Lima is apparently playing the gender card as a shield against mounting evidence of her ties with high-profile drug lords and the proliferation of drug trade in the New Bilibid Prison\". Chief Presidential Legal Counsel Salvador Panelo said that \"the president is immune from suit but even if he is not, the petition has no basis in fact nor in law\".\n\nDuterte had already made light of the fact of his capacity to give presidential pardons, even with presidential immunity, when he vowed to pardon himself the moment he became president during the 2016 campaign:\n\nRodrigo Duterte developed a reputation as a \"protector\" and \"saviour\" in his hometown of Davao City as Mayor of the city for more than two decades. This is despite reports of death squads in the city.\n\nRodrigo Duterte has been described as a populist with his foul-mouthed remarks against the country's elite which positioned him as a \"man-of-the-people\" as critical to his win in the 2016 presidential elections. He has also been compared to US President Donald Trump for his rhetoric style.\n\nArdent supporters of Duterte have been labeled as the \"Duterte Diehard Supporters\" alternatively known as the \"Digong Duterte Supporters\" which shares the accronym with the Davao Death Squad (DDS). This label has been applied to the 16 million people who voted for him during the 2016 presidential elections.\n\nSeveral other Facebook groups with the acronym \"DDS\" supported Duterte as early as 2011. Among these groups is the Duterte Defense Squad which was created on July 5, 2011. Other examples include the Digong Duterte Supporters-Registered Nurses Group, Duterte’s Destiny is to Serve the Country, Digong Duterte Swerte (lit. Digong Duterte is (Good) Luck), and the Davsur Duterte Supporters. In 2015, members of the various groups urged Duterte to run for President.\n\nIn early September 2015, an infamous incident was reported of a tourist being forced to swallow his own cigarette butt in a local bar in Davao City after the tourist refused to comply with the public anti-smoking ordinance of the city. Duterte was personally contacted by the bar owner and went into the bar and forced the tourist to swallow his cigarette butt. Duterte was then met with criticisms especially from the Commission on Human Rights (CHR).\n\nReferring to the arrest of a suspected rice smuggler, Duterte spoke out in the state senate saying, \"If this guy would go to Davao and starts [sic] to unload (smuggled rice) ... I will gladly kill him.\" For these comments, Duterte was attacked in an editorial in \"The Manila Times\", which condemned \"the mentality of lawlessness and vigilantism\". The newspaper argued that this culture of impunity enabled those in power, including officials, \"private warlords and businessmen vigilantes\" to take retribution against those they felt had acted against their interests: \"They kill journalists exposing corruption and human rights activists exposing abusive police and military men.\" Following Duterte's comments in relation to killing a person suspected of smuggling rice, the office of the President of the Philippines issued a statement saying, \"Killing a person is against the law. The President has been firm in the belief that no one is above the law. We must not resort to extralegal methods.\"\nIn October 2016, the French newspaper \"Libération\" depicted Duterte as a \"serial killer president\", pertaining to the spate of drug-related killings in the Philippines. The newspaper report drew condemnation from the Filipino community in France. Presidential Spokesperson Ernesto Abella said in a radio interview that the newspaper's presentation of Duterte as a serial killer was \"very unfair\" and \"irresponsible\" while DILG Secretary Ismael Sueno stated that the description was \"too much\" and noted the lack of understanding over the administration's war on drugs. As 2016 concluded, the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP) nominated Duterte as a runner-up in their \"2016 Person of the Year Award\" that \"recognizes the individual who has done the most in the world to advance organized criminal activity and corruption\". The OCCRP panel members who recognized Duterte noted his use of \"death squads to slaughter drug dealers (and users)\", with some panelists comparing his use of vigilante groups to those of the \"2016 Person of the Year Award\" winner, Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro. In 2017, the investigative journalists' network OCCRP has named Duterte \"Person of the Year in Organized Crime\".\n\nDuterte has consistently voiced his grudge against the Commission of Human Rights, much to the dismay of various human rights groups and advocates. He had also threatened the abolition of the constitutionally supported institution. Under Duterte's first year, Budget spending for the Commission of Human Rights was cut by 72.9 million PhP; Duterte's allies in the congress even insists that the said agency deserves zero budget. The 2018 budget for the CHR was set to (US$20) by Duterte's allies in the congress, which was lauded by Duterte stating that they had it coming due to CHR's chairman Chito Gascon being a \"yellow\" (Liberal Party affiliated) and speaking out against Duterte's War on Drugs. Not contented with his insults against Gascon, Duterte has also accused Gascon of being a pedophile for caring so much about the deaths of minors. Duterte also stated that the CHR aligned themselves with his political enemies, stating that there are crimes against children happening everyday but the CHR only focuses on the crimes of his administration. The CHR budget was restored by the Senate after thousands of Filipinos have expressed their outrage and dismay against Duterte and his allies in the social media and on the streets.\n\nOn August 16, 2017, Duterte made another scathing remark against the Commission on Human Rights, threatening them with violence for their probes.\n\nDuterte's statements against the CHR came a few weeks after he threatened to bomb the indigenous schools which he accused of indoctrinating children with communist ideology.\n\nMany have expressed criticism of Duterte's stance against Human Rights, but Duterte believes that the number of deaths due to extrajudicial killings and summary executions are a measure of his success in his war against drugs.\n\nDuterte firmly believes that killing criminals is not a crime against humanity.\n\nFollowing the death of Kian de los Santos, a minor allegedly executed by policemen under the admin's War on Drugs, United Nations special rapporteur Agnes Callamard had implored Duterte to make de los Santos' death the last. Duterte had responded by severely cursing Callamard and taunting her to come to the Philippines. \n\nCallamard had previously opined that de los Santos was murdered by the police after a CCTV recording revealed footage of policemen dragging an unarmed boy against his will, contrary to the local police officers' claims that the boy fought back with a gun. Callamard tweeted her statement in response to Duterte's blasé speech admitting that Kian was indeed murdered, a week after Kian's death. In a previous speech, Duterte had told policemen to shoot suspects who resist arrest, and even joked that \"if they don't resist, make them fight back\".\nDuring his diatribe against Callamard, Duterte had accused France of having a policy of \"guilty until proven innocent\", an erroneous assumption which the French embassy corrected later on. France is among the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) members which expressed serious concerns over the extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances. Representatives from Bulgaria, France, Germany, Ghana, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia and Peru recommended to the Philippines to allow Callamard to conduct an investigation into the alleged extrajudicial killings in connection with President Duterte's war on drugs. The concerned member states include Australia, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Czech Republic, Vatican City, Iceland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Sierra Leone, Spain, Slovenia, Switzerland, United Kingdom and United States. Duterte stated that there is no guarantee that Kian would be the last. Duterte stated that there will be more victims killed for the sake of ending the \"drugs problem\". Barely a month after Kian's death, it was followed by the deaths of Carl Arnaiz and Reynaldo de Guzman who were all minors found to be murdered by gunshot wounds. Duterte had stated that it was not state policy to kill drug suspects. Duterte also expressed ridicule at allegations that they were killed similarly to Kian. Duterte rebuked the media, saying \"how could he kill them, when one of them is even a relative\". Duterte also claimed that the slaying of the minors is done in an attempt to discredit the PNP and undermine his war on drugs.\n\nCallamard had stated that her official visit to the Philippines to engage Duterte is not possible due to the pre-conditions imposed by Duterte's admin to force her to engage in a public debate. Callamard had repeatedly refused Duterte's taunts for her to engage him in \"public debate\", saying that her visit should not be for \"entertainment\".\n\nThe Human Rights Watch (HRW) had called the first year of Duterte in office as a human rights calamity. The HRW estimates that there has been 7,000 extrajudicial killings from the day Duterte first took office to January 2017. The Duterte administration suspended the drugs war by February 2017 in an effort to cleanse the police ranks, also halting the disclosure of figures on deaths related to drug arrests and raids. In March 2017, the HRW released a special investigation and report on the state of police related shooting, titled \"License To Kill\". \"The New York Times\" had also released a video documentary \"When A President Says I'll Kill You\", which depicts Duterte's war on drugs through a local photographer's eyes. On August 17, 2017, HRW called Duterte a threat to the human rights community after Duterte made threats against human rights activists. As of August 2017, human rights groups and activists had claimed that more than 13,000 people had been killed in extrajudicial killings including those they believed the government had executed such as Kian de los Santos, contrary to government figures which estimated it to be only around 3,000.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Jude Sabio, the lawyer of Edgar Matobato, filed a case against Duterte in the International Criminal Court (ICC). An online petition for the ICC to investigate Duterte for advocating shoot-to-kill orders had been filed in Change.org only three months after he started to serve as president, following the drastic increase in vigilante killings and Duterte's advocacy to kill drugpushers.\n\nFollowing the UN's 72nd General Assembly, Foreign Secretary Alan Peter Cayetano, who represented Duterte who did not attend it, states that it scored a big victory claiming that the UNHRC \"overwhelmingly adopted Manila's human rights report card\". The CHR however states that these claims are nothing more than \"doublespeak\" that serves to deliberately mislead people to think that the Duterte admin is serious about human rights. The Philippines did not accept 154 recommendations of other UN member-states, including a condition-less visit for UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings Agnes Callamard and a thorough investigation of the deaths in connection with the war on drugs.\n\nDuterte had again made another remark regarding rape when he rallied the troops during the war against the Maute in Marawi.\n\nMalacañang had defended Duterte's remarks, claiming that it should not be taken seriously because it is due to heightened bravado. Several public officials expressed their distaste for the remark, including a Bangsamoro committee member who quit the council out of sheer disgust. Women's rights groups protested Duterte's statements claiming that rape is a heinous crime and should not be joked about, even alleging that the Maranao refugees in the evacuation camps were being threatened with rape by soldiers who were encouraged by the President.\n\nChelsea Clinton expressed her disapproval of Duterte through social media, to which Duterte defended himself saying that he was being \"sarcastic\" when he made the remark. Displeased with her comments, Duterte launched a verbal tirade against Clinton by bringing up the Lewinsky scandal, in which her father, former U.S. President Bill Clinton, was involved.\n\nDuring the second time that Duterte visited Marawi, he also made a remark on using \"starlets\" to reward the soldiers for their valor, much to the hoots and the laughter of the soldiers.\nIt is well known that Duterte and his allies have been using sexy starlets, performers, and actresses in their rallies and protests to entertain their followers.\n\nIn August 2018, Duterte's home province of Davao had the highest number of reported rape cases. Duterte responded by joking that Davao has \"many beautiful women\", which explains the high rate. His comments were defended by his daughter, Sara Duterte, who asked his critics \"What have you done for Davao?. Presidential spokesperson Harry Roque also defended his comments, saying \"it's more liberal in the South\". \n\nIn 1995, after Flor Contemplacion, a Filipino, was executed in Singapore after confessing to a double murder, Duterte, as Davao City mayor, allegedly burned a flag of Singapore (though this claim was later denied) and joined 1,000 employees of Davao City in protest.\nDuterte has been accused by his critics in the media of having a \"dirty mouth\". He had, however, promised to behave in a \"prim and proper\" manner on the national and international stage once he was to be inaugurated as President, to the point that, \"almost, I would become holy.\"\n\nIn July 2016, Duterte accused the United Kingdom and the United States of importing terrorism to the Middle East through its interventions, saying: \"The U.S. destroyed the Middle East. ... Great Britain and the U.S. will not admit that they forced their way to Iraq and killed Saddam. Look at Iraq now. Look what happened to Libya. Look what happened to Syria.\"\n\nIn August 2016, Duterte was criticized after he made a homophobic comment (using a Tagalog language slur) about the US Ambassador to the Philippines Philip Goldberg, stating \"As you know, I'm fighting with (US Secretary of State John Kerry's) ambassador. His gay ambassador, the son of a whore. He pissed me off.\" Duterte added: \"He [Goldberg] meddled during the elections, giving statements here and there. He was not supposed to do that.\" The U.S. State Department summoned the Filipino chargé d'affaires Patrick Chuasoto to discuss Duterte's comments. Duterte refused to apologize.\n\nIn the same month, United Nations human rights experts called for an end to extrajudicial killings of suspected drug dealers, about 900 of whom had been executed since the May election, accusing Duterte of \"incitement to violence and killing, a crime under international law\". In response, Duterte threatened to leave the UN and form a separate organization with China and African nations. He announced in a news conference on August 19: \"You now, United Nations, if you can say one bad thing about me, I can give you 10 [about you]. I tell you, you are an \"inutil\" (\"useless\" in Filipino street language.). Because if you are really true to your mandate, you could have stopped all these wars and killing [in Syria and Iraq].\" Asked about possible repercussions, he stated: \"What is ... repercussions? I don't give a shit to them.\" He said that the UN had acted against protocol: \"You do not just go out and give a shitting statement against a country.\"\nAt the 2016 ASEAN Summit, Duterte and U.S. President Barack Obama planned to meet with each other. The United States said that President Obama planned to discuss the 2,400 Filipinos who died during Duterte's war on drugs. Duterte criticized the planned topic of the meeting, saying, \"I am no American puppet. I am the president of a sovereign country and I am not answerable to anyone except the Filipino people. You must be respectful. Do not just throw away questions and statements. Son of a whore, I will curse you in that forum.\" The vulgar insult prompted the White House to cancel the meeting instead. During a press conference at the 2016 G20 Hangzhou summit in China, President Obama discussed the cancellation of the meeting, saying: \"I always want to make sure that if I'm having a meeting, that it's actually productive and we're getting something done.\" Obama and Duterte later met informally.\n\nOn September 30, 2016, Duterte appeared to compare the killings of suspected drug addicts to the Holocaust saying: \"Hitler massacred three million Jews. Now, there are 3 million drug addicts. ... I'd be happy to slaughter them.\" His remarks drew international outrage particularly from the Jewish Communities. World Jewish Congress president Ronald S. Lauder condemned the statement, as did the Anti-Defamation League. Israeli Foreign Ministry also condemned his remarks while the German government slammed Duterte's comments as unacceptable, and called in the Philippine ambassador to the Foreign Ministry over the matter. On October 2 he apologized to the Jewish community. When listening to the full conference, he was in fact referring to the accusation of genocide by lawyers of the European Union who wanted him to face the International Court of Justice and, as Presidential spokesman Ernesto Abella explained, that it \"was an oblique reflection of the way he has been pictured as a mass murderer, a Hitler, a label he rejects\".\nIn September 2016, Duterte said that the United States has not even apologized to the Philippines for its atrocities during the Philippine–American War. In October 2016, Duterte continued his tirade against the US and the European Union saying in Tagalog that \"Mr. Obama, you can go to hell. EU, better choose purgatory. Hell is already full. Why should I be afraid of you?\"\n\nDuterte's constant cursing had local officials worried that the Philippines would lose foreign aid from the United States and European Union. He responded that “If you think it is high time for you guys to withdraw your assistance, go ahead. We will not beg for it. We have a problem here trying to preserve our society\" he said. The President continued that he would “be the first to go hungry. I will be the first one to die of hunger\". Local actress Agot Isidro responded in Tagalog \"First of all, no one's trying to fight you. As a matter of fact, you're the one who's picking a fight. Secondly, the country where you are elected as President by 16 million out of 100+ million is Third World. You talk as if the Philippines is a superpower. Excuse me, we don't want to go hungry. If you want, you do it yourself. Leave us out of it. So many people have nothing to eat, and yet you'll starve us even further\". Her sentiments were echoed by Senator Panfilo Lacson adding that \"if the economy worsen, the entire Filipino people will be affected, they will go hungry as well\".\n\nFormer president Fidel Ramos on his resignation as special envoy to China stated that he did not like Duterte's treatment of US president Barack Obama and lambasted the administration on its refusal to ratify the Paris Agreement on Climate Change which was later agreed by Duterte.\n\nDuring the 2016 APEC Summit in Peru, President Duterte skipped two major events due to jet lag. In a press conference at his office in Makati, former president Ramos hit the absence of Duterte at the APEC gala dinner and the shoot for the leaders’ traditional family photo. Ramos said that while Duterte and his Cabinet may have thought that the two events are negligible, it could have disappointed the host country. “Peru President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski must be very disappointed,” Ramos said. He said the gala night could have been an opportunity for Duterte to exchange ideas with world leaders and sickness is an unacceptable alibi to skip such an important gathering.\n\nIn January 2018, Duterte revealed that he advised Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi to 'ignore human rights criticisms on Rohingya issue'. In April 5, 2018, Duterte recognized the existence of a genocide against the Rohingya people.\n\nDuterte has referred to the Catholic Church as \"the most hypocritical institution\", after the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines president Socrates Villegas released a pastoral letter indirectly referring to Duterte as a \"morally reprehensible\" candidate who has shown \"scant regard\" for the rights of others and the teachings of the Church, urging Filipino Catholics to not vote for him. Unlike many prominent conservative politicians, Duterte has spoken in favor of birth control, LGBT rights, and reimposition of the death penalty which was abolished by President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, a devout Catholic, during her second term in 2006. Upon being elected, Duterte called local bishops \"sons of whores\", and said he would expand family planning, which the Church had been opposed to. The Catholic Church in the Philippines had lost much of its popularity and political power since being active in overthrowing the Marcos regime in 1986. Antonio Contreras, a political science professor at De La Salle University in Manila, said that Duterte's attacks on the Church were likely to prove popular.\n\nDuterte was accused of having referred to Pope Francis as a \"son of a whore\" during the pontiff's visit to the Philippines in January 2015 because it caused traffic congestion, though he immediately apologized publicly, explaining he wasn't using these words in regards to the Pope but rather a rant to the government's way of preparing the Pope's visit. On December 4, 2015, Duterte, along with his executive assistant Bong Go, visited and talked with Davao Archbishop Romulo Valles and Bishop George Rimando, together with Monsignor Paul Cuison to get lectured on Christian Values. Duterte committed to lessen his profanity in public gatherings and even assured that he would donate ₱1,000 to Caritas Davao every time he swears in public. He also stated that he will be planning to visit the Vatican at a later time. Duterte however canceled his planned trip and instead wrote a letter to Pope Francis dated January 21, 2016. During a campaign rally in Ubay, Bohol, Duterte's camp showed the letter coming from the Vatican's Secretariat of State, signed by Giovanni Angelo Becciu dated February 24, stating that Pope Francis had received his letter and that the Vatican appreciated Duterte's apology after allegedly cursing Pope Francis in public. In January 2017, Duterte wrote a personal letter to Pope Francis, expressing his gratitude during his papal visit in the Philippines and his \"highest esteem and respect\" for the pontiff.\n\nOn August 28, 2016, Luis Antonio Tagle, the Archbishop of Manila, acknowledged that people were right to be \"worried about extrajudicial killing\". He said that it was equivalent to abortion, \"unfair labor practices\", \"wasting food\" and selling illegal drugs, explaining that these are all \"form[s] of murder\".\nOn August 31, in a speech before a gathering of a religious group in Davao City, Duterte said that he once considered being a priest: \"It's good I didn't join the priesthood,\" said Duterte, \"or else now I would be a homosexual.\"\n\nThe Philippines is one of the most dangerous countries for journalists, with 174 assassinations recorded since the Marcos dictatorship. In a press conference on May 31, 2016, Duterte said that \"Most of those killed, to be frank, have done something. You won't be killed if you don't do anything wrong.\" He appeared to announce his support for killing \"corrupt\" journalists: \"Just because you're a journalist you are not exempted from assassination if you're a son of a bitch\".\n\nAt the press conference where Duterte announced this, he wolf-whistled at a female journalist (Mariz Umali of GMA News) when she asked a question. At a news conference on the following day he defended his comments and refused to apologise, telling reporters, \"I cannot protect you\". He has been criticized by foreign and domestic media organizations regarding his comments. The Southeast Asia representative of the Committee to Protect Journalists said: \"What he has done with these irresponsible comments is give security officials the right to kill for acts that they consider defamation. This is one of the most outrageous statements we have ever heard from a president in the Philippines.\"\n\nMelinda Quintos de Jesus, executive director of the Center for Media Freedom, stated in October 2016 that major newspapers and television stations have not critically analyzed Duterte's policies, because \"they fear him. They basically are afraid to be singled out.\"\n\nDespite his rocky relationship with the media, Duterte's first Administrative Order was the creation of a Presidential Task Force on Media Security, whose main task is conduct an inventory of cases of media killings, including unsolved cases, cases under investigation, cases under preliminary investigation, cases under trial, and cases under appeal, and \"to put an end to all forms of political violence and abuses of powers against members of the fourth estate.\" In the first year that Duterte took office, four journalists were killed..\n\nDuterte has repeatedly admitted to killing three people while he was the Mayor of Davao. In December 2015, Duterte recounted shooting three gunmen dead only months into his first mayoral term in 1988 after they had kidnapped and raped a Chinese girl. He justified his actions, saying \"they were committing a crime in my presence and I was the person in authority under the law\". In an interview with BBC on December 16, 2016, he said: \"I killed about three of them, because there were three of them. I don't know how many bullets from my gun went inside their bodies. It happened, and I said, I cannot lie about it\".\n\nOn December 14, 2016, Duterte gave a speech to business leaders in the presidential palace where he spoke of personally killing suspected criminals as Mayor of Davao to set an example for local police. He said, \"In Davao I used to do it personally. Just to show to the guys that if I can do it why can't you. And I'd go around in Davao with a motorcycle, with a big bike around, and I would just patrol the streets, looking for trouble also.\"\n\nDespite constant criticism of his war on drugs, Duterte had staunchly defended his administration efforts at getting rid of \"filth\" from the streets. Duterte had even called César Gaviria an \"idiot\". This was after he read Gaviria's opinion that was published in \"The New York Times\". Gaviria claimed that Duterte is simply repeating his mistakes during his term as president when he used heavy-handed means in Colombia's war against drugs. Duterte said Gaviria was “lecturing” and the Philippine case was different to Colombia.\n\nVarious international publications and media companies had claimed that Duterte's \"War on Drugs\" was a war against the poor due to the abject poverty of those arrested or killed. In 2017, the investigative journalists' network OCCRP reported that \"Duterte has overseen the killing of more than 7,000 and possibly as many as 12,000. The statistics are hard to pin down because Duterte’s National Police suppress all critical reports. And police are spared from any accountability or legal consequences for a campaign that has left bodies in the streets.\"\n\nOn August 18, 2017, Duterte admitted his mistake in trying to end drugs in six months, and it would take him his entire term to end it. Duterte stated that he had no idea when he took office that Philippines had become a failed state, having been degenerated into a narco-state. He blamed the Bureau of Customs whose people he thought were loyal to him. He also blamed the governors, mayors and policemen who were involved in drugs and threatened to have them killed. The Duterte administration had been using a \"narco-list\" which Duterte shares with the mass media to warn public officials allegedly involved in the drug trade to surrender. Duterte claims to have received several death threats because of his campaign against drugs. Unfazed by these, Duterte stated that he welcomes all attempts to kill him.\n\nSeveral senators have implored the public to express more outrage at Duterte's War on Drugs.\n\nDuterte is known for being an avid fan of big bikes but detests luxury cars. He once owned a second-hand Harley-Davidson and currently a Yamaha Virago. He was once a habitual smoker, but he eventually quit after a doctor's suggestion due to health concerns. Duterte is an avid reader of Robert Ludlum and Sidney Sheldon novels. Duterte is also known for his straightforward and vocal attitude in public especially in interviews, showing no hesitation in using profanity profusely live on-screen on numerous occasions despite formal requests by media groups and schools beforehand to abstain.\n\nDuterte has his own local show in Davao City called \"Gikan Sa Masa, Para Sa Masa\" (\"From the Masses, For the Masses\") aired as a blocktimer on ABS-CBN Davao. He is also a member of Lex Talionis Fraternitas, a fraternity based in the San Beda College of Law and the Ateneo de Davao University.\n\nAside from his native Cebuano, Duterte is also fluent in Filipino and English.\n\nDuterte was once married to Elizabeth Abellana Zimmerman, a flight attendant from Davao City and is of Jewish German American descent who also traces her roots in Tuburan, Cebu. They together have three children (from eldest to youngest): Paolo (\"Pulong\"), Sara (\"Inday Sara\") and Sebastian (\"Bastê\"). Paolo and Sara ventured into politics while Baste, with no interest in politics, concentrated on business and surfing. In 2012, Duterte made a notorious remark in a media interview regarding an incident where Paolo's name was allegedly linked to a carnapping (portmanteau of car and kidnapping) syndicate led by Ryan Yu. Duterte is infamously quoted as having said: \"Kill my son Paolo if he is involved in crime.\" Paolo was never charged for lack of evidence and eventually won the Davao City vice mayoralty in 2013. Duterte's father Vicente died in 1968 while his mother Soledad died on February 4, 2012, at the age of 95. Zimmerman was diagnosed with stage 3 breast cancer in 2015.\n\nDuterte has been publicly very open about his infidelity and philandering while married to Zimmerman and cited it as the reason for his failed first marriage when asked in interviews. In 1998, Zimmerman filed a petition with the Regional Trial Court in Pasig to nullify her marriage. Duterte never appeared in court and did not contest Zimmerman's petition. Two years later, the court decided in her favor, ending the 27-year marriage of Duterte and Zimmerman. Duterte and Zimmerman have been on good terms in recent years with Zimmerman stating, \"Yes, [Rodrigo] is really a very good leader. That is all he is. But when it comes to family, he is not capable of taking care of it.\" In 2001, Zimmerman eventually ran for a seat on the city council but lost. Duterte and Zimmerman are said to have patched things up and appear to be civil to each other, 15 years after their marriage was declared null and void. Zimmerman eventually joined the campaign trail for Duterte's presidential candidacy in early 2016 called \"Byaheng Du30\" in which she would travel by bus to major cities together with her daughter Sara and a number of delegates.\n\nDuterte is currently living with his common-law wife Cielito \"Honeylet\" Avanceña, a nurse, with whom he has one daughter named Veronica (\"Kitty\"). Duterte has eight grandchildren, half of whom are Muslims and the other half Christian.\n\nOn his paternal side, he shares familial ties with some of the prominent families of the Visayas, particularly the Almendrases & Duranos of Danao, Cebu.\n\nDespite being raised as a communicant of the Catholic Church, on January 19, 2016, while meeting with businessmen in Binondo, Manila, Duterte clarified that he has not attended Mass for quite some time already since he deemed it incompatible with his mayoral responsibilities: \"If I listened to the Ten Commandments or to the priests\" said Duterte, \"I would not be able to do anything as a mayor\". He then clarified that he still believes in God, but not in religion. On June 26, 2016, Duterte said he's Christian, but also said that he believes \"in one god Allah\".\n\nIn July 2018, he called himself \"spiritual\" and expressed his belief in \"one Supreme God\", but stated he \"can't accept\" Catholicism or organised religion.\n\nDuterte has Buerger's disease, an inflammation of blood vessels, mostly in the limbs, and Barrett's esophagus, wherein esophageal cells are gradually replaced by gastrointestinal cells. He has denied rumors of throat cancer.\n\nDuterte admitted in December 2016 that he had been a user of the addictive opioid drug Fentanyl. He said that a doctor prescribed the drug to alleviate back pain and headaches, but that he would take more than he was prescribed: \"I was only given a fourth of [the whole patch], but no more, because, of course, my doctor learned that I was using the whole patch because I felt better\". Fentanyl is described by the US National Institute on Drug Abuse as \"a powerful synthetic opioid analgesic that is similar to morphine but is 50 to 100 times more potent\". Duterte later denied that he was a drug addict, and a spokesman stated that he was not affected by side-effects of the drug, which include confusion, anxiety and hallucinations.\n\nDuterte has boasted about his use of Viagra: \"When I was young, I could do overnight, which is more expensive. When I got old, I could do short time only because I have such a short time left. After one erection, that's it. No more. Without Viagra, it's even more difficult.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "254054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=254054", "title": "Rumor", "text": "Rumor\n\nA rumor (American English) or rumour (British English; see spelling differences) (origin word from latin is 'rumorem', or noise) is \"a tall tale of explanations of events circulating from person to person and pertaining to an object, event, or issue in public concern.\" \n\nIn the social sciences, a rumor involves some kind of a statement whose veracity is not quickly or ever confirmed. In addition, some scholars have identified rumor as a subset of propaganda. Sociology, psychology, and communication studies have widely varying definitions of rumor.\n\nRumors are also often discussed with regard to \"misinformation\" and \"disinformation\" (the former often seen as simply false and the latter seen as deliberately false, though usually from a government source given to the media or a foreign government). Rumors thus have often been viewed as particular forms of other communication concepts.\n\nFrench and German social science research on rumor locates the modern scholarly definition of it to the pioneering work of the German William Stern in 1902. Stern experimented on rumor involving a \"chain of subjects\" who passed a story from \"mouth to ear\" without the right to repeat or explain it. He found that the story was shortened and changed by the time it reached the end of the chain. His student was another pioneer in the field, Gordon Allport.\n\nThe experiment is similar to the children's game Chinese whispers.\n\n\"A Psychology of Rumor\" was published by in 1944, in which he reports on his analysis of over one thousand rumors during World War II that were printed in the \"Boston Herald\"'s \"Rumor Clinic\" Column. He defines rumor as \na proposition for belief of topical reference disseminated without official verification\". So formidably defined, rumor is but a special case of informal social communications, including myth, legend, and current humor. From myth and legend it is distinguished by its emphasis on the topical. Where humor is designed to provoke laughter, rumor begs for belief.\nKnapp identified three basic characteristics that apply to rumor: \nCrucial to this definition and its characteristics is the emphasis on transmission (word of mouth, which then was heard and reported in the newspaper); on content (\"topical\" means that it can somehow be distinguished from trivial and private subjects—its domain is public issues); and on reception (\"emotional needs of the community\" suggests that though it is received by an individual from an individual, it is not comprehended in individual but community or social terms).\n\nBased on his study of the newspaper column, Knapp divided those rumors into three types:\n\nKnapp also found that negative rumors were more likely to be disseminated than positive rumors. These types also differentiate between positive (pipe dream) and negative (bogie and wedge-driving) rumors.\n\nIn the 1947 study, \"Psychology of Rumor\", Gordon Allport and concluded that, \"as rumor travels it [...] grows shorter, more concise, more easily grasped and told.\" This conclusion was based on a test of message diffusion between persons, which found that about 70% of details in a message were lost in the first 5-6 mouth-to-mouth transmissions.\n\nIn the experiment, a test subject was shown an illustration and given time to look it over. They were then asked to describe the scene from memory to a second test subject. This second test subject was then asked to describe the scene to a third, and so forth and so on. Each person’s reproduction was recorded. This process was repeated with different illustrations with very different settings and contents.\n\nAllport and Postman used three terms to describe the movement of rumor. They are: \"leveling\", \"sharpening\", and \"assimilation\". Leveling refers to the loss of detail during the transmission process; sharpening to the selection of certain details of which to transmit; and assimilation to a distortion in the transmission of information as a result of subconscious motivations.\n\nAssimilation was observed when test subjects described the illustrations as they ought to be but not as they actually were. For example, in an illustration depicting a battle-scene, test subjects often incorrectly reported an ambulance truck in the background of the illustration as carrying “medical supplies,” when, in fact, it was clearly carrying boxes marked “TNT (102).”\n\nIn 2004, Prashant Bordia and Nicholas DiFonzo published their \"Problem Solving in Social Interactions on the Internet: Rumor As Social Cognition\" and found that rumor transmission is probably reflective of a \"collective explanation process.\" This conclusion was based on an analysis of archived message board discussions in which the statements were coded and analyzed. It was found that 29% (the majority) of statements within these discussions could be coded as “sensemaking” statements, which involved, “[...] attempts at solving a problem.”\n\nIt was noted that the rest of the discussion was constructed around these statements, further reinforcing the idea of collective problem solving. The researchers also found that each rumor went through a four-stage pattern of development in which a rumor was introduced for discussion, information was volunteered and discussed, and finally a resolution was drawn or interest was lost.\n\nFor the study, archived discussions concerning rumors on the internet and other computer networks such as BITnet were retrieved. As a rule, each discussion had a minimum of five statements posted over a period of at least two days. The statements were then coded as being one of the following: \"prudent\", \"apprehensive\", \"authenticating\", \"interrogatory\", \"providing information\", \"belief\", \"disbelief\", \"sensemaking\", \"digressive\", or \"uncodable\". Each rumor discussion was then analyzed based on this coding system. A similar coding system based on statistical analysis was applied to each discussion as a whole, and the aforementioned four-stage pattern of rumor discussion emerged.\n\nThere are four components of managing rumors that both of you need to understand for the sake of your relationship’s success. The first, anxiety (situational and personality), is when people who either have a more anxious personality, or people who are in an anxiety- lifting situation are more likely to create rumors in order to relieve some of their insecurities. The second component of managing rumors is ambiguity. Ambiguity is when someone is not sure about what is going on, so they end up assuming the worst. The third component is information importance. . Information is key, and if that information is not juicy or if it does not interest people, there won’t be rumors, but information can often be false. Information can also be ambiguous. The last component of managing rumors is credibility. Rumors are often spread by sources that are not credible. A rumor itself is not credible unless it is proven to be true. That is why people say to never trust the tabloids. \n\nRumor has always played a major role in politics, with negative rumors about an opponent typically more effective than positive rumors about one's own side.\nIn the past, much research on rumor came from psychological approaches (as the discussion of Allport and DiFonzio demonstrates above). The focus was especially on how statements of questionable veracity (absolutely false to the ears of some listeners) circulated orally from person to person. Scholarly attention to political rumors is at least as old as Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\"; however, not until recently has any sustained attention and conceptual development been directed at political uses of rumor, outside of its role in war situations. Almost no work had been done until recently on how different forms of media and particular cultural-historical conditions may facilitate a rumor's diffusion.\n\nThe Internet's recent appearance as a new media technology has shown ever new possibilities for the fast diffusion of rumor, as the debunking sites such as snopes.com, urbanlegend.com, and factcheck.org demonstrate. Nor had previous research taken into consideration the particular form or style of deliberately chosen rumors for political purposes in particular circumstances (even though significant attention to the power of rumor for mass-media-diffused war propaganda has been in vogue since World War I; see Lasswell 1927). In the early part of the 21st century, some legal scholars have attended to political uses of rumor, though their conceptualization of it remains social psychological and their solutions to it as public problem are from a legal scholarly perspective, largely having to do with libel and privacy laws and the damage to personal reputations.\n\nWorking within political communication studies, in 2006, Jayson Harsin introduced the concept of the \"rumor bomb\" as a response to the widespread empirical phenomenon of rumoresque communication in contemporary relations between media and politics, especially within the complex convergence of multiple forms of media, from cell phones and internet, to radio, TV, and print. Harsin starts with the widespread definition of rumor as a claim whose truthfulness is in doubt and which often has no clear source even if its ideological or partisan origins and intents are clear. He then treats it as a particular rhetorical strategy in current contexts of media and politics in many societies. For Harsin a \"rumor bomb\" extends the definition of rumor into a political communication concept with the following features:\n\nIn addition, Harsin locates the \"rumor bomb\" within other communication genres, such as disinformation (intentional false information) and propaganda, as rumor has been viewed by others. However, he distinguishes it from these concepts as well, since disinformation is often too associated with government, and propaganda is attempts to control opinion without regard for ethics and accuracy of statement. Similarly, \"spin\" is a generic term for strategic political communication that attempts to frame or re-frame an event or a statement in a way that is politically profitable for one side and detrimental to another, though at its core it may simply be a red herring (Bennett 2003, p. 130).\n\nIn addition, a \"smear campaign\" is a term that loosely means a coordinated effort to attack a person's character. Unlike a \"smear campaign,\" rumor bombs need not be about discrediting a person (as is the case, for example, in claims about Iraq and 9/11 or weapons of mass destruction moved to Syria). “Spin” also specifically refers to an event and its re-framing. Rumor bombs may seek to produce events themselves.\nA rumor bomb can be seen as having some characteristics of these general concepts, but rumor bombs happen in very particular cultural and historical conditions. They are not about mouth-to-ear interpersonal rumors as much rumor research has been interested in. They begin in a rapport between deliberate \"disinformers\" and \"media\", whether TV news, talk shows, newspapers, radio, or websites. They then circulate across these media, perhaps but not necessarily resulting in interpersonal mouth-to-ear rumor diffusion.\n\nHarsin distinguishes the rumor bomb from other more general concepts of rumor by \"emphasizing changes in politics, media technology, and culture\". According to Harsin, rumor in politics has always existed, but recent changes have created an environment ripe for a new kind of political rumor: a new media \"convergence culture\" where information produced on the internet can influence the production of media content in other forms;new media technologies and business values that emphasize speed and circulation that combine with entertainment values in news, political marketing, and public craving of tabloid news that mirrors other entertainment genres.\n\nRumors of affairs, of \"weapons of mass destruction\" and their alleged removal to other countries\"John Kerry is French,\" Obama is a Muslim, John McCain had an illegitimate black child—all of these involve statements whose veracity is in question or that are simply false. Other statements may have an ambiguous nature that makes them potentially appealing to different audiences who may interpret them in particular ways and circulate them. Harsin builds on rumor research that has emphasized social cognition and diffusion of propaganda. He extends Prashant and Difonzio's work in particular, since they attempt to distinguish rumor from gossip, in that rumor is supposedly about public issues and gossip is about private, trivial things. The emergence of infotainment and tabloidization in especially American and British news has broken that distinction, since politics is now just as much about bringing the private into the public view, as was clear with the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal.\n\nSimilar to their appearance and function in political communication, wherein rumors can be deployed for specific deleterious effect (rumor bomb) or can otherwise plague a candidate for office, rumors also play an important role in strategic communication. Strategic communication is the process of crafting messages in support of specific organizational goals, and is usually concerned with governments, militaries and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). Adroit strategic communication requires an understanding of stories, trends and memes circulating within a culture.\n\nRumors can be viewed as stories that seem rational but that are steeped into speculation, in connection with a certain narrative landscape (the vast array of cultural expression circulating within a community or region). In their book, \"Narrative Landmines: Rumors, Islamist Extremism and the Struggle for Strategic Influence\", co-authors Daniel Bernardi, Pauline Hope Cheong, Chris Lundry and Scott W. Ruston coin the term narrative IED to help explain the function and danger of rumors in a strategic communication context. Rumors, as narrative IEDs, are low-cost, low-tech communication weapons that can be used by anyone to disrupt the efforts of communication, civil affairs or outreach campaigns such as those undertaken by governments in crisis response situations or militaries in insurgencies. As Bernardi notes, “\"Like their explosive cousins, rumors can be created and planted by nearly anybody, require limited resources to utilize, can be deadly for those in its direct path, and can instill fear”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1340354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1340354", "title": "SIMO TCI", "text": "SIMO TCI\n\nSIMO TCI is an International Data Processing, Multimedia and Communications Show (consumer electronics) held every autumn (7–12 November ) in Madrid, Spain. Its name stands for \"Salón Internacional de Mobiliario de Oficina / Tecnologías de la Comunicación e Información\" (International Show of Office Furniture / Information and Communication Technologies), due to its origin. Its first edition was held in 1961. It takes place in Madrid's Exhibition Centre IFEMA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2100956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2100956", "title": "Set list", "text": "Set list\n\nA set list, or most commonly, setlist, is typically a handwritten or printed document that is created as a blueprint for a performance that lists the order of songs, jokes, stories or other performance elements that an artist intends to play, or has played, during a specific performance. (In the case of music concerts, the popular website setlist.fm, specifically defines a setlist to be the list of the songs a band or artist actually played during a concert).\n\nA set list can be made of nearly any material that can be written or printed on, but are most commonly made with paper, cardboard, or cardstock. They are also often laminated as well, especially for outdoor stage settings. The set list is usually taped directly to the stage in front of the performers, or somewhere the musicians can see it, such as to a monitor or amplifier.\n\nArtists use setlists for a variety of reasons beyond just being a reminder of the order in which their material is to be played during a performance. They are most often used to help the artist or band to create the overall mood of a live performance by allowing them to create a memorable sense of range and variety in the tone, tempo, and dynamics within their performance, which is often a factor in creating great performances that fans will talk about for years if not generations.\n\nThey are also used to create sets for a specific audience or location, an increasingly popular idea that is aided by the use of today's technologies like the use of instant polling on social media and websites, where fans can choose the material to be performed. \n\nMany performers also craft their playlists in ways that highlight other elements of their stage shows such as the visual ambience of the stage, choreography, or in an order that defines things like different albums or eras of their career.\n\nMusic fans also refer to the set list in the non-physical sense of what a performing artist chooses to play. For many artists, the same set list is played for every performance on a given concert tour. For others this is not necessarily the case, and for their devoted fan bases who follow the artist around on tour, the most variety in the set list from night to night is longed for. The Grateful Dead are one example, having never played the same set list twice in the band's entire existence. Some such artists have predetermined \"slots\" in an otherwise mostly fixed show where different songs can be swapped in and out; other artists guarantee that the same song will not be played two shows in a row; and still other artists such as Van Morrison use no predetermined set list at all.\n\nWebsites exist to track and report statistics on the played set lists of those artists who change them from night to night. In the case of devoted fan bases such as for Bruce Springsteen, in the pre-smartphone era fans attending concerts took on the assigned role of \"set list caller\", periodically calling out or text-messaging from a cell phone to a friend, to report the most recent songs played, with the friend then updating a running set list on one of several Internet forums. In the smartphone era, such fans could update the sites themselves or put out running commentaries on Twitter.\n\nCollecting setlists has become nearly as popular for music fans as collecting ticket stubs and show posters, with the actual physical setlist becoming a treasured and uniquely rare souvenir for concert goers and fans of music in general. Fans often wait around after a concert just so they can grab one off the stage after a performance or so they can try requesting one from a roadie or other crew member. Crew members also sometimes keep items like setlists, guitar picks, and drum sticks for themselves, or so that they can sell them on websites such as eBay, where dedicated music fans and concert attendees who are looking to the highlight their own experience of a particular show can purchase them for their own collection.\n\nIn some cases, so great is the urge for a fan to obtain a setlist that they don't always wait for a show to end before trying to get their hands on a setlist.\n\n"}
{"id": "50590723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50590723", "title": "Shila Amzah Love Live in Malaysia Concert", "text": "Shila Amzah Love Live in Malaysia Concert\n\nShila Amzah Love Live in Malaysia (or: 茜拉爱住在马来西亚的演唱会) was a single day concert by Malaysian singer-songwriter, Shila Amzah. The concert was jointly organized by Shila Amzah Entertainment Bhd., Mega Ultimate Sdn Bhd., AirAsia, Alexandre Christieas, My FM, Era FM, Paradigm Mall and Premiere Hotel. It received positive feedback and reviews from concert reviewers and critics who praised Shila's vocals and overall showmanship.\n\nShila Amzah previously had launched her very first concert on August 16, 2014 at Shanghai, China and has received many positive remarks from the audiences. In fact, the concert at Shanghai was actually sold out. There were approximately 2,000 people who have attended the concert and the audiences are from multiple races. Some of Shila’s Beijing fans have also flew all the way from China to attend her concert at her own country, Malaysia.\n\nShila Amzah Love Live in Malaysia marked Shila Amzah's first ever solo concert to be organized in Malaysia. Her makeup for the night was provided by Fiza Zainuddin while her dresses were designed by Raffiey Nasir.\n\nAs the kick start of the show, Shila began her first performance with “Yang Teristimewa” and “Bebaskan/Ada Sahaja”. She has composed and written these songs at a very young age as one of the songs was actually created by her at the age of 13 years old. Throughout the show, Shila has spoken in multiple languages including Malay, Chinese and English so that all of her audiences could understand her. She also said that, regardless of the races who have attended the concert, everyone is actually one big family.\n\nShila then proceeded with the song which has made everyone knows her, Zheng Fu. All of the fans were mesmerized by her powerful vocal. She has totally conquered the heart of the audiences with her wonderful voice.\n\nShe has altered some of the song lyrics and even mixed-and-matched different versions or languages of songs during her performance on stage. The most prominent one is during her performance of “Ji De. Shila has sung cover for “Ji De” in Malay version before. During her concert this time, she has mixed the Mandarin version as well as Malay version together.\n\nDuring Shila Amzah Love Live in Shanghai, she has invited Evan Guo as her guest artist. In Shila Amzah Love Live in Malaysia Concert, she has invited a James Yang, who is famous for his song, “Long Time No See\". They have performed that song together on stage. After their duet, James have also performed another song titled “忘了我是谁”. During this song, he has come down from the stage to interact with the audiences.\n\nDuring the concert, Shila has also surprised the audience by performing K-pop song by EXO titled Overdose. She said that language is not a barrier for music.\n\nDuring her participation in I Am a Singer (season 2)，her performance of \"Xiang Ni De Ye\" has amazed all of the audiences including the original singer himself. Besides this song, she also sang \"Zui Chang De Dian Ying\" which she has also performed during I Am a Singer (season 2).\n\nDuring the concert, she has featured a medley consisting of Wang Lee Hom’s songs. Besides, she has also done a medley performance of Beyoncé’s Songs! She danced along with the dancers during the medley. Medias describe it as \"Her performance during this medley was very energetic and lively!\".\n\nDuring her concert, she has interacted a lot with the fans and some of her speech were really hilarious. For example, she told the fans regarding how much she likes Wang LeeHom and she jokingly said that she was very sad when she knew that he was married. She asked the audiences whether she has really gained some weights because a few netizen commented on her social media that she’s fat. Well, the audiences replied, “No!”. Hearing the response, she jokingly replied that she could eat without much worries then.\n\nAfterwards, Shila gave a speech regarding patriotism as well as love during her performance of “Warisan”. She said that while she was dedicating the song for her beloved country, the real dedication of the song was for her father. She has invited her father to go on stage to sing with her.\n\nAfter Shila’s performance of her which is \"Memori Tercipta\", the audiences did not leave the hall and they screamed for an encore. Without disappointing the fans, Shila came back on stage with her song \"Patah Seribu\" which was blended with her Mandarin version, \"Xia Yi Bu\". All of the fans have gathered closer to the stage during the performance of this song. Shila has taken a selfie on stage with all of her fans as the background.\n\n"}
{"id": "7712750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7712750", "title": "The Last Supper (2006 film)", "text": "The Last Supper (2006 film)\n\nThe Last Supper is a 2006 comedy short film about the Biblical Last Supper. The film portrays the Last Supper as having occurred at a modern night club. The film was directed by Marius A. Markevicius and stars Chip Bent, Michael Bortone, Eliza Dushku, Andrew Davoli and Isaiah Mustafa.\n\n\"The Last Supper\" premiered in September 2006 at the San Diego Film Festival.\n"}
{"id": "27585378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27585378", "title": "The Pinkerton Labor Spy", "text": "The Pinkerton Labor Spy\n\nThe Pinkerton Labor Spy (alternately, The Pinkerton's Labor Spy) is a nonfiction book published in 1907 as an exposé of intrigue and abuses by the Pinkerton Detective Agency in general, and by chief agent James McParland in particular.\n\nThe book detailed the use of spies by mining and ore milling companies during the period of the Colorado Labor Wars. It described the recruiting, utilization, and management of agents who infiltrated the Western Federation of Miners and the United Mine Workers unions for the purposes of disruption, sabotage, and gathering information.\n\nThe author of the book, Morris Friedman, had worked in the agency as Mr. McParland's stenographer.\n\n\"The Pinkerton Labor Spy\" criticized the Pinkerton Detective Agency from a pro-labor point of view. Charlie Siringo, another former employee of the agency, had no sympathy for labor, yet wrote books about his experiences as a Pinkerton Detective that were so objectionable to the company, they were repeatedly suppressed. In 1936, the La Follette Committee of the United States Senate investigated and publicized abuses of detective agencies, including Pinkerton. The Pinkerton Agency eventually shifted from detective work to security services, at least in part due to such criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11305106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11305106", "title": "Tibetan festivals", "text": "Tibetan festivals\n\nIn Tibet, the Tibetan calendar lags approximately four to six weeks behind the solar calendar. For example, the Tibetan First Month usually falls in February, the Fifth Month usually falls in June or early July and the Eight Month usually falls in September.\n\nThe Tibetan calendar is a lunisolar calendar. Losar is celebrated on the first three days of the first lunar month.\n\n"}
{"id": "1464147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464147", "title": "Vague (club)", "text": "Vague (club)\n\nVague was an influential art club night held at The Warehouse nightclub in Leeds, West Yorkshire, England, from 1993 to 1996.\n\nVague metamorphosed from an earlier proto-club night called the Kit Kat Club at Arcadia operated by Suzy Mason and Paul Fryer(former lead-singer of eighties electropop group Bazooka Joe). Fryer and Mason then in brought in Nick Raphael, and debuted Vague at the High Flyers club in Leeds on 10 April 1993, before moving to The Warehouse a month later. Vague blended kitsch with the artistic and theatrical; its outlandish theme and costume parties included a recreation of a day-night out at Blackpool Pleasure Beach only inside the club that was believed to have been filled entirely with beach sand, parasols and miniature fairground rides, a retake on royal garden parties that was held annually and an evening with Vera Duckworth a fictional character from the British soap opera \"Coronation Street\".\nThe club is credited as being the first in the UK to advertise itself as \"mixed\"– \"i.e.\" for homosexual, heterosexual and polysexual patrons equally, however the claim is not entirely true for example the promoter Leigh Bowery and creator of the Taboo Club night in London in 1985 could be credited with embracing poly-sexual identities in club culture at a much earlier date. Although the vetting of customers on the door at Vague was notoriously strict. for example it was rumored on some occasions that visiting male heterosexual customers were asked to dress up as a woman, then come back to the club or passionately kiss another male customer in-front of door staff, to prove they held no prejudices. Once inside, the atmosphere was one of tolerance, hedonism, and sexuality. The British music newspaper \"Melody Maker\" featured Vague in 1994 in a review called \"For Frocks Sake\" and described the club as a \"Dance Equivalent of Andy Warhol's The Factory\", whilst the \"Daily Telegraph\" journalist Tim Willis depicted the scene inside of the club as one of \"Bacchanalian excess\" for the feature \"Up North Where Anything Goes\". The pioneering ethos that was behind Vague is what made it so successful years before any other club in the UK adopted a similar safe-space approach, according to Richard Smith speaking in 2006 then editor of Britain's leading gay publication \"Gay Times\" on the banning by the UK government of gay straight door policies he stated \"one of the most important clubs of the 90s was Trannies With Attitude Vague in Leeds. They – quite consciously – started and worked at building up a big mixed, polysexual club night, and succeeded”. The notoriety of Vague during this period helped to put Leeds firmly on the international club scene radar along with the city's other major house music venue, Back to Basics.\n\nThe club played a mixture of 'Handbag house\", \"hard house\", hard trance and Classic and electronic Disco music played on the main dance floor, with a more eclectic selection of music played on the upper floor such as Glam punk, Musical's.Rare Soul and Jazz Styles. Resident DJ's TWA particularly championed \"Techno Disco\" or \"tesko\" (for legal reasons) a brand of disco house at the club. A number of Vague anthems included TWA's \"Disco Biscuit\" and \"Nasty Girl's\", Atlantic Ocean's \"Waterfall\", Björk's, Big Time Sensuality , Lisa lisa cult jam's, Let the Beat Hit 'Em, WestBam's, Wizards of the Sonic, Fierce Ruling Diva's, \"Get Funky\" and The Lisa Marie Experience's version of Keep on Jumpin, Gat Decor's, Passion, Alison Limerick's, Where Love Lives Passion, \"Waterfall\" by Atlantic Ocean. TESKO has been defined as Techno with sex put into it; in other words encapsulating the power of Techno then adding in Funk and the love of Classic Disco.\n\nOriginal resident DJs included Fryer and Raphael as \"TWA\"(styled as \"Trannies With Attitude\" or \"The World is Androgynous\") and Phil Faversham, later residents included Anne Savage Curtis Zack, Daisy & Havoc. Guest DJ's appearing at the club have included Pete Tong for a live recording of the BBC Radio 1 Essential Mix, Guy Williams, Princess Julia, Paulette and Billy da Kid (a.k.a. Billy Hanshaw)\n\nThe host who ran the door at Vague was ‘Madame JoJo’ also known as ‘Lady JoJo Queen of the GoGo’, she was also a member of TWA and featured in the Music Video for their song ‘Nasty Girls’, .\n\nIn April 1996 a boxed double compilation CD - \"Vague - Now & Then\" - was released, its accompanying booklet detailing the history of the club. The night ended after Vague celebrated its third birthday at the Warehouse on 14 September 1996. The organizers then went on to pursue other careers in creative industries, Nick Raphael left to become label manager at FFRR Records and is now president of Capitol Records UK, Paul Fryer moved to London and worked for Fendi as Musical director from 2000 to 2005, he has since carved out a highly successful career as an artist with his work collected by Damian Hirst and Karl Lagerfeld, Suzy Mason partnering Kas Shaw continued in Club Promotion with a similar styled mixed night - called \"I-Spy\" held at Club NATO in Leeds city centre, the pair then transferred back to the Warehouse on 12 April 1997, soon afterwards it was renamed \"Speed Queen,\" which ran for eleven years before closing in 2008. Speed Queen at the Warehouse was one of three clubs featured in a November 1997 BBC local documentary about Leeds nightlife. Mason subsequently went on to a career in academia and is now a Senior Researcher at the Leeds College of Art. and Phil Faversham went on to work at Ministry of Sound as Club Development Director. Madam JoJo went on to pursue a career in Radio initially with dance music station Kiss 105 then later with Galaxy 105 in Leeds .\n\nThe concept of Vague has since been the subject of LGBT discourse and academic research by Dr Kevin Almond at the University of Huddersfield UK through his friendship with Suzy Mason and attendance at Vague, his contributing chapter entitled \"Masquerade in Clubland: A Safe Space for Glamour\" features in the book \"Visual Culture and Gender\" edited by Professor Annette Burfoot at Queen's University Canada.\n\nThe group TWA also included a third member 'Paul Dillion'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31889576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31889576", "title": "Victorian Major Events Company", "text": "Victorian Major Events Company\n\nThe Victorian Major Events Company is a foundation for sporting and cultural events in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The corporation was founded in 1991 as part of a Victorian Government initiative to attract international cultural and sporting events that require global state-of-the-art facilities and infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "57458053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57458053", "title": "World Bee Day", "text": "World Bee Day\n\nWorld Bee Day is celebrated on May 20. On this day Anton Janša, the pioneer of beekeeping, was born in 1734.\n\nThe purpose of the international day is to acknowledge the role of bees and other pollinators for the ecosystem.\n\nThe UN Member States approved Slovenia’s proposal to proclaim 20 May as World Bee Day in December 2017.\n\n"}
