{"id": "9464742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9464742", "title": "Akan art", "text": "Akan art\n\nAkan art is an art form that originated among the Akan people of West Africa. Akan art is known for vibrant artistic traditions, including textiles, sculpture, Akan goldweights, as well as gold and silver jewelry. The Akan people are known for their strong connection between visual and verbal expressions and a distinctive blending of art and philosophy. Akan culture values gold above all other metals, so the artwork and jewelry made of gold reflects a great deal of value, whether it be made for appearance, artistic expression, or more practical trading purposes.\n\nOne of the most popular pieces of Akan art are the Akan goldweights. The gold weights were made of copper, bronze, and brass. They were cast using a method of casting known as lost-wax technique or \"cire perdue\". Goldweights were created for economic transactions involving gold. Although it is not clear when the convention of weights were first introduced, scholars suggest that the Akan first traded gold with Muslim merchants from the West African interior, long before European contact. Their weight system correspond to the Islamic weight system of North Africa, and appear to be part of early sub-Saharan trade. \n\nThe gold weights served a vast amount of roles in their culture and everyday life. Akan goldweights are used as counterbalances on the scales used in gold trade, visual representations of oral tradition, representations of proverbs, as pictographic script in social and political system, and in the knowledge system of the Akan people. Goldweights were used in everyday trade and commerce, as well as in accounting, as a type of fraction or counter. According to the Akan scholar Nitecki, Akan gold weights were \"created and used like spoken language to commemorate social or historical events or entities, to express philosophical or religious views, aspirations, and dreams, or simply to ask questions, or to express displeasure\". The Akan pyramids were concrete testimonials to how the artist felt about themselves and major life events and dilemmas such as marriage, children, injustice, and personal and statewide conflicts.\n\nThere are four major categories of gold weights, based on what was depicted. The first kind of gold weights depict people. The second consist of the local flora and fauna. The third category are likened to man-made objects. The final category are abstract and open for interpretation by individual. \n\nAkan cultural jewelry has a variety of forms. The Akan people make neck-wear, wrist bands, elbow-wear, knee-wear, and ankle-wear. Gender-specific jewelry includes hat pins and headbands for men and earrings and hairpins for the women. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1128090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1128090", "title": "Animal worship", "text": "Animal worship\n\nAnimal worship (or zoolatry) refers to rituals involving animals, such as the glorification of animal deities or animal sacrifice. When a god is respected or worshipped by means of a representative animal, an animal cult is formed (Teeter et al., 2002, p. 355). Animal cults may be classified according to their outward form or according to their inward meaning, which may of course undergo transformations (Thomas 1911, p. 51).\n\nThe classical author Diodorus explained the origin of animal worship by recalling the myth in which the gods, supposedly threatened by giants, hid under the guise of animals. The people then naturally began to worship the animals that their gods had disguised themselves as and continued this act even after the gods returned to their normal state (Lubbock, 2005, p. 252). In 1906, Weissenborn suggested that animal worship resulted from man's natural curiosity. Primitive man would observe an animal that had a unique trait and the inexplicability of this trait would appeal to man's curiosity (Weissenborn, 1906b, p. 282). Wonder resulted from primitive man's observations of this distinctive trait and this wonder eventually induced adoration. Thus, primitive man worshipped animals that had inimitable traits (Weissenborn, 1906b, p. 282). Lubbock put forward a more recent view. Lubbock proposed that animal-worship originated from family names. In societies, families would name themselves and their children after certain animals and eventually came to hold that animal above other animals. Eventually, these opinions turned into deep respect and evolved into fully developed worship of the family animal (Lubbock, 2005, p. 253). The belief that an animal is sacred frequently results in dietary laws prohibiting their consumption. As well as holding certain animals to be sacred, religions have also adopted the opposite attitude, that certain animals are unclean.\n\nThe idea that divinity embodies itself in animals, such as a deity incarnate, and then lives on earth among human beings is disregarded by Abrahamic religions (Morris, 2000, p. 26). In Independent Assemblies of God and Pentecostal churches, animals have very little religious significance (Schoffeleers, 1985; Peltzer, 1987; Qtd. in Morris, 2000, p. 25). Animals have become less and less important and symbolic in cult rituals and religion, especially among African cultures, as Christianity and Islamic religions have spread. (Morris, 2000, p. 24).\n\nThe Egyptian pantheon was especially fond of zoomorphism, with many animals sacred to particular deities—cats to Bastet, ibises and baboons to Thoth, crocodiles to Sobek and Ra, fish to Set, mongoose, shrew and birds to Horus, dogs and jackals to Anubis, serpents and eels to Atum, beetles to Khepera, bulls to Apis. Animals were often mummified as a result of these beliefs.\n\nThere is evidence that connects the Greek goddess Artemis with a cult of the bear. Girls danced as \"bears\" in her honour, and might not marry before undergoing this ceremony (Thomas 1911, p. 51). According to mythology, the goddess once transformed a nymph into a bear and then into the constellation Ursa Major.\n\nThe existence of an ancient bear cult among Neanderthals in the Middle Paleolithic period has been a topic of discussion spurred by archaeological findings (Wunn, 2000, p. 434-435). Ancient bear bones have been discovered in several different caves and their peculiar arrangement are believed by some archaeologists to be evidence of a bear cult during the Paleolithic era. (Wunn, 2000, p. 435). However, others argue that the placement of these remains, whether it appears to be an identified pattern or not, is due to natural causes such as wind, sediment, or water (Wunn, 2000, p. 437-438).\nThe Ainu people, who live on select islands in the Japanese archipelago, call the bear \"kamui\" in their language, which translates to mean god. While many other animals are considered to be gods in the Ainu culture, the bear is the head of the gods (Kindaichi, 1949, p. 345). For the Ainu, when the gods visit the world of man, they don fur and claws and take on the physical appearance of an animal. Usually, however, when the term \"kamui\" is used, it essentially means a bear (Kindaichi, 1949, p. 345). The Ainu people willingly and thankfully ate the bear as they believed that the disguise (the flesh and fur) of any god was a gift to the home that the god chose to visit (Kindaichi, 1949, p. 348).\n\nWhales were little understood for most of human history as they spend up to 90% of their lives underwater, only surfacing briefly to breathe (Bird 2007). Many cultures, even those that have hunted them, hold whales in awe and feature them in their mythologies.\n\nA prevalent whale cult in Japan occurs around the coastal area. There are cemeteries with memorial stones dedicated to the whales which were hunted and killed to feed the people (Naumann, 1974, p. 4).\nBuddhist epitaphs mark these stones which implore that Buddha be reborn as a whale (Naumann, 1974, p. 4). Along with these memorials, there is evidence that whale embryos, found in a deceased mother's womb, were extracted and buried with the same respect as a human being (Naumann, 1974, p. 5). For certain shrines, the bones of a perished whale were also deposited in the area (Naumann, 1974, p. 5).\n\nIn Alaska, there are cultures that have ceremonial tributes whales after they are captured in a hunt (Lantis 1938, p. 445). Some tribes bring the hump, the fins, or the nose of the whale into their camps or the whaler's house. These parts are meant to represent the entirety of the whale and are honored as such during the festival (Lantis 1938, p. 445). The bones of a whale are also given ritual treatment. The Alaskan tribes that participate in such acts believe that their ceremonies protect the whale's soul from injury and the soul can then be free to return to the sea (Lantis 1938, p. 445).\n\nIn China, \"Yu-kiang\", a whale with the hands and feet of a man was said to rule the ocean (Siebert 2011, pp. 15–16).\n\nIn the Tyrol region of Austria, it was said that if a sunbeam were to fall on a maiden entering womanhood, she would be carried away in the belly of a whale (Frazer 1913, p. 72).\n\nPaikea (also maori name for humpback whales), the youngest and favourite son of the chief Uenuku from the island of Mangaia, in the present day Cook Islands, was said by the Kati Kuri people of Kaikoura to have come from the Pacific Islands on the back of \"Tohora\" (maori name for southern right whales) a whale many centuries before.\n\nThe whale features in Inuit creation myths. When 'Big Raven', a deity in human form, found a stranded whale, he was told by the Great Spirit where to find special mushrooms that would give him the strength to drag the whale back to the sea and thus return order to the world (Siebert 2011, pp. 15–16).\n\nThe Tlingit people of northern Canada say that the orcas were created when the hunter Natsihlane carved eight fish from yellow cedar, sang his most powerful spirit song and commanded the fish to leap into the water (Heimlich & Boran 2001, p. 7).\n\nIn Icelandic legend a man threw a stone at a fin whale and hit the blowhole, causing the whale to burst. The man was told not to go to sea for twenty years, but in the nineteenth year he went fishing and a whale came and killed him.\n\nIn East African legend, King Sulemani asked God that he might permit him to feed all the beings on earth. A whale came and ate until there was no corn left and then told Sulemani that he was still hungry and that there were 70,000 more in his tribe. Sulemani then prayed to God for forgiveness and thanked the creature for teaching him a lesson in humility (Siebert 2011, pp. 15–16).\n\nSome cultures that associate divinity with whales, such as some Ghanaians and Vietnamese, coastal Chinese except for southernmost region, Japanese (also known as Ebisu), occasionally hold funerals for beached whales; a throwback to Vietnam's ancient sea-based Austro-Asiatic culture.(Viegas 2010) See also the below-mentioned Ebisu in fish part for more details. In some lore, whales have been told to work for Ryūgū-jō as well.\n\nIndigenous Ainu tribes on Hokkaido refereed killer whales as \"Repun Kamuy\", \"God of Sea/Offshore\" in their folklore and myths that the deities will bring fortunes (whales) to coastal people.\nThe Bible mentions whales in Genesis 1:21, Job 7:12, Ezekiel 32:2. The \"sea monsters\" in Lamentations 4:3 have been taken by some commentators to refer to marine mammals, in particular whales, although most modern versions use the word \"jackals\" instead (Lamentations 4:3). The story of Jonah being swallowed by a \"big Fish\" is told both in the Qur'an () and in the Bible. The Old Testament contains the Book of Jonah and in the New Testament, Jesus mentions this story in Matthew 12:40 (Jonah 1-4).\n\nMany religions have considered cattle to be sacred, most famously Hinduism from India and Nepal, but also Zoroastrianism, and ancient Greek and Egyptian religion. Cattle and buffalo are respected by many pastoral peoples that rely on the animals for sustenance and the killing of an ox is a sacrificial function (Thomas 1911, p. 51).\n\nThe Toda of southern India abstain from the flesh of their domestic animal, the buffalo. However, once a year they sacrifice a bull calf, which is eaten in the forest by the adult males (Thomas 1911, p. 51). The buffalo plays an important part in many Toda rituals. These buffalo are currently endangered.\n\nConspicuous among Egyptian animal cults was that of the bull, Apis. It was distinguished by certain marks, and when the old Apis died a new one was sought. The finder was rewarded, and the bull underwent four months' education at Nilopolis. Its birthday was celebrated once a year when oxen, which had to be pure white, were sacrificed to it. Women were forbidden to approach it when once its education was finished. Oracles were obtained from it in various ways. After death it was mummified and buried in a rock-tomb. Less widespread was the cult of the Mnevis, also consecrated to Osiris (Thomas 1911, p. 51).\n\nSimilar observances are found in our own day on the Upper Nile. The Nuba and Nuer revere cattle. The Angoni of Central Africa and the Sakalava of Madagascar keep sacred bulls. In India respect for the cow is widespread, but is of post-Vedic origin; there is little actual worship, but the products of the cow are important in magic (Thomas 1911, p. 51).\n\nWhile there are several animals that are worshipped in India, the supreme position is held by the cow (Margul, 1968, p. 63). The humped zebu, a breed of cow, is central to the religion of Hinduism (Margul, 1968, p. 63). Mythological legends have supported the sanctity of the zebu throughout India (Margul, 1968, p. 64). Such myths have included the creation of a divine cow mother and a cow heaven by the God, Brahma and Prithu, the sovereign of the universe, created the earth's vegetation, edible fruits and vegetables, disguised as a cow (Margul, 1968, p. 64).\n\nAccording to Tadeusz Margul, observations of the Hindu religion and the cow has led to a misunderstanding that Hindi have a servile relationship with the zebu, giving prayers and offerings to it daily. Typically, however, only during the Cow Holiday, an annual event, is the cow the recipient of such practices (Margul, 1968, p. 65). Margul suggests that sanctity of the cow is based on four foundations: abstaining from cow slaughter, abstaining from beef consumption, control of breeding and ownership, and belief in purification qualities of cow products (milk, curd, ghee, dung, and urine) (Margul, 1968, p. 65-66).\n\nAmun, the god of Thebes, Egypt, was represented as ram-headed. His worshippers held the ram to be sacred, however, it was sacrificed once a year. Its fleece formed the clothing of the idol (Thomas 1911, p. 52). Another Egyptian ram-headed god was \"Banebdjed\", a form of Osiris.\n\nSilenus, the Satyrs and the Fauns were either capriform or had some part of their bodies shaped like that of a goat. In northern Europe the wood spirit, Leszi, is believed to have a goat's horns, ears and legs (Thomas 1911, p. 51). A deity known as the Goat of Mendes is associated with the pentagram.\n\nIn Greece, Italy, and Egypt, the goat was worshipped in both goat form and phallic form (Neave 1988, p. 8). This type of worship has sometimes been said to have originated from the goat's increased sex drive. One male goat was capable of fertilizing 150 females (Neave 1988, p. 8). The Greek god Pan was depicted as having goat characteristics, such as hooves, horns, and a beard. Along with Pan, the goat was closely related to Dionysus during the Roman era (Neave 1988, p. 8). To honor Dionysus, Romans would tear apart a goat and eat it alive. The goat was commonly associated with dark arts and the devil. This association was amplified in Egypt during the Middle Ages (Neave 1988, p. 8).\n\nExcavations in Central Asia have revealed ancient ritual goat-burial that show a religious significance of the goat predominantly in the area (Sidky 1990, p. 286). These findings have been used as evidence for a goat-cult of Asia originating either in the Neolithic or Bronze Ages (Sidky 1990, p. 286).\n\nDogs have a major religious significance among the Hindus in Nepal and some parts of India. The dogs are worshipped as a part of a five-day Tihar festival that falls roughly in November every year. In Hinduism, it is believed that the dog is a messenger of \"Yama\", the god of death, and dogs guard the doors of Heaven. Socially, they are believed to be the protectors of our homes and lives. So, in order to please the dogs they are going to meet at Heaven's doors after death, so they would be allowed in Heaven, people mark the 14th day of the lunar cycle in November as Kukur-tihar, as known in Nepali language for the dog's day. This is a day when the dog is worshipped by applying \"tika\" (the holy vermilion dot), incense sticks and garlanded generally with marigold flower.\n\nActual dog worship is uncommon. The Nosarii of western Asia are said to worship a dog. The Karang of Java had a cult of the red dog, each family keeping one in the house. According to one authority the dogs are images of wood which are worshipped after the death of a member of the family and burnt after a thousand days. In Nepal it is said that dogs are worshipped at the festival called Khicha Puja. Among the Harranians dogs were sacred, but this was rather as brothers of the mystae (Thomas 1911, p. 51).\n\nHorse worship has been practiced by a number of Indo-European and Turkic peoples. There is some reason to believe that Poseidon, like other water gods, was originally conceived under the form of a horse. In the cave of Phigalia Demeter was, according to popular tradition, represented with the head and mane of a horse, possibly a relic of the time when a non-specialized corn-spirit bore this form. Her priests were called Poloi (Greek for \"colts\") in Laconia. The mule and the horse are sacred to the Roman god Consus. In Gaul we find a horse-goddess, Epona. There are also traces of a horse-god, Rudiobus. Hayagriva is a horse-headed deity that appears in both Hinduism and Buddhism. The Gonds in India worship a horse-god, Koda Pen, in the form of a shapeless stone, but it is not clear that the horse is regarded as divine. The horse or mare is a common form of the corn-spirit in Europe (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nAmong the Balkan culture, swaddling an unmarried person in a horse-girth is a typical ritual. It is thought that the sexual potency of the horse is passed to the individual wrapped in its girth (Vukanović 1980, p. 112). Along with the Balkan swaddling, Virgil's Aeneid bases the founding of the great city of Carthage upon a horse (Qtd. in Brown 1950, p. 32). When the Phoenicians dug up a horse head from the ground they decided to build their city (Carthage) upon that spot because the horse was a sign of success (Qtd. in Brown 1950, p. 32). Thus, Brown argued that the horse was sacred to the Phoenician people (Brown 1950, p. 32).\n\nIn Thailand it is believed that a white elephant may contain the soul of a dead person, perhaps a Buddha. When one is taken the capturer is rewarded and the animal brought to the king to be kept ever afterwards. It cannot be bought or sold. It is baptized and fêted and mourned for like a human being at its death. In some parts of Indo-China the belief is that the soul of the elephant may injure people after death; it is therefore fêted by a whole village. In Cambodia it is held to bring luck to the kingdom. The cult of the white elephant is also found at Ennarea in southern Ethiopia (Thomas 1911, p. 51). In India, the popular Hindu god Ganesha has the head of an elephant and a torso of a human.\n\nIn Surat, unmarried Anāvil girls participate in a holiday referred to as Alunām (Naik, 1958, p. 393). This holiday is to honor the goddess Pārvatī. During this celebration, a clay elephant is prepared (most likely to celebrate Pārvatī's creation of Ganesha from a paste of either turmeric or sandalwood). Every day, the unmarried women worship this elephant by dancing, singing songs, and abstaining from eating salt. On the final day of Alunām, the clay elephant is immersed in some body of water (Naik, 1958, p. 393).\n\nCertain cultures also used elephant figurines to display the animal's importance. There was evidence of an ancient elephant cult in Sumatra (Schnitger, 1938, p. 41). Stone elephant figurines were built as \"seats of the souls\" in the Sumatran culture (Schnitger, 1938, p. 41). In North Borneo, however, wooden elephant figurines were placed on the top of a bamboo pole. This bamboo pole was only erected after the tribe chief had collected a certain number of human heads (Schnitger, 1938, p. 41).\n\nIn North America the Algonquian tribes had as their chief deity a \"mighty great hare\" to whom they went at death. According to one account he lived in the east, according to another in the north. In his anthropomorphized form he was known as Menabosho or Michabo (Thomas 1911, p. 51).\n\nThe deer is important in the mythology of many peoples. To the Greeks it was sacred to the goddess Artemis, while in Hinduism it is linked to the goddess Saraswati. The deer also held spiritual significance to the pastoralist cultures of the Eurasian Steppe. The golden stag figurine found in the Pazyryk burials is one of the most famous pieces of Scythian art.\n\nRome's foundation uses wolves in totemic imagery.\n\nThe cult of the leopard is widely found in West Africa. Among the Ashanti people a man who kills one is liable to be put to death; no leopard skin may be exposed to view, but a stuffed leopard is worshipped. On the Gold Coast a leopard hunter who has killed his victim is carried round the town behind the body of the leopard; he may not speak, must besmear himself so as to look like a leopard and imitate its movements. In Loango a prince's cap is put upon the head of a dead leopard, and dances are held in its honour (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nIn Ancient Egypt, the first known cat-headed deity was Mafdet. During the First Dynasty 2920–2770 BC, she was regarded as protector of the Pharaoh's chambers against snakes, scorpions and evil. She was often depicted with a head of a leopard. The lion-headed deity Sekhmet was considered a daughter of Ra and was worshipped as protector of Egypt. Mummifying small cats grew in popularity during the Late Period of ancient Egypt from 664 BC until the 4th century AD. Cat mummies were used for votive offerings to the deity Bastet, mostly during festivals and by pilgrims. Hundreds of thousands of cat mummies were excavated at cat cemeteries in Bubastis, Saqqara, Speos Artemidos and Gizeh.\n\nThere was a lion-god at Baalbek. The pre-Islamic Arabs worshipped the lion-god Yaghuth. In modern Africa we find a lion-idol among the Balonda (Thomas 1911, p. 52). The lion was also sacred to Hebat, the mother goddess of the Hurrians.\n\nIn Judaism the patriarch Jacob refers to his son Judah as a Gur Aryeh גּוּר אַרְיֵה יְהוּדָה, a \"Young Lion\" (Genesis 49:9) when blessing him. Thus the Lion of Judah started to be reverenced in some others abrahamic cults, symbolising their prophets, as such as Jesus and Haile Selassie I, the \"ras\" Tafari.\n\nIn Mesoamerica the jaguar was revered as a symbol of fertility and warriorship among the Aztec, Maya and Olmec, and had an important role in shamanism.\n\nOf great importance in Chinese myth and culture, the Tiger is one of the 12 Chinese zodiac animals. Also in various Chinese art and martial art, the tiger is depicted as an earth symbol and equal rival of the Chinese dragon- the two representing matter and spirit respectively. The White Tiger () is one of the Four Symbols of the Chinese constellations. It is sometimes called the White Tiger of the West (西方白虎), and it represents the west and the autumn season (Cooper 1992, pp. 226–27).\n\nThe tiger replaces the lion as king of the beasts in cultures of eastern Asia, representing royalty, fearlessness and wrath. In Chinese children stories, it is often depicted that the stripes on a tiger's forehead represent the character 王 (\"king\") (Cooper 1992, pp. 226–27).\n\nSome cultures that celebrated tiger worship are still represented contemporarily. In the suburbs of Kunming, China, there is a tourist attraction where the tiger worship of the Yi is displayed for visitors. This attraction called the Solar Calendar Square is complete with a growling tiger statue, measuring to be five meters high (Harrell & Yongxiang 2003, p. 380). In Chuxiong of China, a similar attraction exists. A tiger totem is presented for tourists; the totem portrays the Yi belief of the tiger setting the entire world in motion. A tiger dance of the Shuangbai County is also performed at such places explaining the history of the Yi and their worship of tigers (Harrell & Yongxiang 2003, p. 380).\n\nAlong with these tourist attractions that display historical practices of the Yi, there is also additional evidence for tiger worship. Tigers were found depicted on small stones. These stones were pierced and worn as amulets, suggesting that the tiger had a certain power of protection for its wearer (Waterbury 1952, p. 76). The Queen Mother deity of the west, Hsi Wang Mu, sometimes possessed a tail of a tiger in her depictions and, like the tiger, was associated with the mountains (Waterbury 1952, p. 76). The tiger was also a deity for both the Tungus and the Black Pottery people (Waterbury 1952, p. 80).\n\nIn many parts of Vietnam, the tiger is a revered creature. In each village, there might be a tiger temple. This worshiping practice might have stem from the fear of tigers used to raid human settlements in the ancient time. Tigers are admired for their great strength, ferocity and grace. Tiger is also considered a guardian deity. Tiger statutes are usually seen at the entrance of temples and palaces, keeping evil spirits from entering those places.\n\nThe tiger is associated with the Hindu deities Shiva and Durga. In Pokhara, Nepal the tiger festival is known as Bagh Jatra. Celebrants dance disguised as tigers and \"hunted\". The Warli tribe of Maharashtra, India worship Waghia the lord of tigers in the form of a shapeless stone (Thomas 1911, p. 52). In Vietnamese folk religion and Dongbei folk religion tiger-gods are also found.\n\nIn Hinduism the monkey deity, Hanuman, is a prominent figure. He is a reincarnation of Shiva, the god of destruction. In orthodox villages monkeys are safe from harm (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nChinese religions and mythologies give monkeys and apes cultural significance as metaphors for people. Chinese deities sometimes appear in the guise of monkeys, for example, Sun Wukong or \"Monkey King\" is the main protagonist in Wu Cheng'en's picaresque novel \"Journey to the West\". In traditional Chinese folk religion, monkeys are supernatural beings that could shape shift into either monkey-demons or were-monkeys, and legends about monkey-human interbreeding are common. In Daoism, monkeys, particularly gibbons, were believed to have longevity like a \"xian\" \"transcendent; immortal\", and to be innately adept at circulating and absorbing \"qi\" \"breath; life force\" through the Daoist discipline of \"daoyin\" \"guiding and pulling\". Similar to Daoism, Chinese Buddhism paradoxically treats monkeys as both wise and foolish animals. On the one hand, the \"Jataka tales\" say that Gautama Buddha was a benevolent monkey king in an earlier incarnation; and on the other hand, monkeys symbolized trickery and ignorance, represented by the Chan Buddhist \"mind monkey\" metaphor for the unsettled, restless nature of human mentality.\n\nMonkeys are said to be worshipped in Togo. At Porto Novo, in French West Africa, twins have tutelary spirits in the shape of small monkeys (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nIn some countries, e.g. India, a small number of temples are dedicated to the worship of wild mice. Whilst widely regarded as a creature to be avoided, for pestilential reasons in such temples the animals are actively encouraged. It is frequently associated with Ganesh. As a creature capable of survival, it is to be revered and respected.\n\nThe Raven is the chief deity of the Tlingit people of Alaska. All over that region it is the chief figure in a group of myths, fulfilling the office of a culture hero who brings the light, gives fire to mankind, and so on (Thomas 1911, p. 51). A raven story from the Puget Sound region describes the \"Raven\" as having originally lived in the land of spirits (literally \"bird land\") that existed before the world of humans. One day the Raven became so bored with \"bird land\" that he flew away, carrying a stone in his beak. When the Raven became tired of carrying the stone and dropped it, the stone fell into the ocean and expanded until it formed the firmament on which humans now live.\n\nIn the creator role, and in the Raven's role as the totem and ancestor of one of the four northwest clan houses, the Raven is often addressed as \"Grandfather Raven\". It is not clear whether this form of address is intended to refer to a creator Raven who is different from the trickster Raven, or if it is just a vain attempt to encourage the trickster spirit to act respectably.\n\nTogether with the eagle-hawk the crow plays a great part in the mythology of southeastern Australia (Thomas 1911, p. 51). Ravens also play a part in some European mythologies, such as in the Celtic and Germanic Religions, where they were connected to Bran and the Morrigan in the former and Woden in the latter.\n\nNorth Borneo treated the hawk as a god, but it was technically the messenger of the people's Supreme God (Waterbury 1952, p. 62). There were rituals that involved the hawk when the natives wished to make decisions about certain events, such as journeys from home, major agricultural work, and war (Waterbury 1952, p. 62). In North Borneo we seem to see the evolution of a god in the three stages of the cult of the hawk among the Kenyahs, the Kayans and the sea Dyaks. The Kenyahs will not kill it, address to it thanks for assistance, and formally consult it before leaving home on an expedition. It seems, however, to be regarded as the messenger of the supreme god Balli Penyalong. The Kayans have a hawk-god, Laki Neho, but seem to regard the hawk as the servant of the chief god, Laki Tenangan. Singalang Burong, the hawk-god of the Dyaks, is completely anthropomorphized. He is god of omens and ruler of the omen birds, but the hawk is not his messenger. For he never leaves his house. Stories are, however, told of his attending feasts in human form and flying away in hawk form when all was over (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nAccording to Florance Waterbury, hawk worship was universal (Waterbury 1952, p. 26). This particular bird was \"a heavenly deity; its wings were the sky, the sun and moon were its eyes\" (Waterbury 1952, p. 26). The hawk is commonly associated with the Egyptian god Horus. The souls of former pharaohs were the followers of Horus and therefore, the hawk (Waterbury 1952, p. 26). Horus was depicted by the Egyptians as a human body with a hawk head after the Fourth and Fifth Dynasty, but before that he was represented as a hawk (Waterbury 1952, p. 27).\n\nEgypt was not the only location of hawk worshippers. There were several other cultures which held the hawk in high regard. The hawk was a deity on the island of Hawaii and symbolized swift justice (Waterbury 1952, p. 62). Along with the lone island from the Hawaiian archipelago, the Fiji islands also had some tribes who worshipped a hawk god (Waterbury 1952, p. 62). Furthermore, although animal worshipping is not a part of Sikh culture, a white falcon bird is mostly regarded in Sikhism as it was associated with the sixth guru and especially the tenth guru. The tenth guru would always carry a white falcon perched on his hand when going out to hunt. The tenth guru was known as the Master of White Hawk. Many people believe that the bird carried by Guru Gobind Singh was a hawk, however historians believe that the bird was a gyrfalcon or a saker falcon.\n\nOn Easter Island until the 1860s there was a Tangata manu (Bird man) cult which has left us Paintings and Petroglyphs of Birdmen (half men half frigatebirds). The cult involved an annual race to collect the first sooty tern egg of the season from the islet of Moto Iti and take it to Orongo.\n\nThe Frigate Bird Cult is thought to have originated in the Solomon Islands before immigrating to Easter Island where it became obsolete (Balfour 1917, p. 374). The Frigate-Bird was a representation of the god Make-make, the god of the seabird's egg on Easter Island (Balfour 1917, p. 374).\n\nThe worship of the serpent is found in many parts of the Old World, and in the Americas (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nIn India snake worship refers to the high status of snakes in Hindu mythology. Over a large part of India there are carved representations of cobras (nagas) or stones as substitutes. To these human food and flowers are offered and lights are burned before the shrines. Among the Dravidians a cobra which is accidentally killed is burned like a human being; no one would kill one intentionally. The serpent-god's image is carried in an annual procession by a celibate priestess (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nAt one time there were many prevalent different renditions of the serpent cult located in India. In Northern India, a masculine version of the serpent named Nagaraja and known as the \"king of the serpents\" was worshipped. Instead of the \"king of the serpents,\" actual live snakes were worshipped in South India (Bhattacharyya 1965, p. 1). The Manasa-cult in Bengal, India, however, was dedicated to the anthropomorphic serpent goddess, Manasa (Bhattacharyya 1965, p. 1).\n\nIn Africa the chief centre of serpent worship was Dahomey. but the cult of the python seems to have been of exotic origin, dating back to the first quarter of the 17th century. By the conquest of Whydah the Dahomeyans were brought in contact with a people of serpent worshippers, and ended by adopting from them the beliefs which they at first despised. At Whydah, the chief centre, there is a serpent temple, tenanted by some fifty snakes. Every python of the \"danh-gbi\" kind must be treated with respect, and death is the penalty for killing one, even by accident. \"Danh-gbi\" has numerous wives, who until 1857 took part in a public procession from which the profane crowd was excluded; a python was carried round the town in a hammock, perhaps as a ceremony for the expulsion of evils. The rainbow-god of the Ashanti was also conceived to have the form of a snake. His messenger was said to be a small variety of boa. but only certain individuals, not the whole species, were sacred. In many parts of Africa the serpent is looked upon as the incarnation of deceased relatives. Among the Amazulu, as among the Betsileo of Madagascar, certain species are assigned as the abode of certain classes. The Maasai, on the other hand, regard each species as the habitat of a particular family of the tribe (Thomas 1911, p. 52).\n\nThe Ancient Egyptians worshiped a number of snake gods, including Apophis and Set, and the Sumerians before them had a serpent god Ningizzida.\n\nAccording to the Jewish scholar Rashi, the Canaanite god Dagon was a fish god. This tradition may have originated here, with a misinterpretation, but recently uncovered reliefs suggest a fish-god with human head and hands was worshipped by people who wore fish-skins (Thomas 1911, p. 51).\n\nIn Japan, there was a deity called Ebisu-gami who, according to Sakurada Katsunori, was widely revered by fishing communities and industries (Qtd. in Naumann, 1974, p. 1). Ebisu, in later traditions, normally appeared in the form of a fisherman holding a fishing pole and carrying a red tai (a perch), but would sometimes take the form of a whale, shark, human corpse, or rock (Naumann, 1974, p. 1). The general image of Ebisu, however, appears to be the whale or the shark, according to Sakurada (Qtd. in Naumann, 1974, p. 2).\n\nDuring Ebisu-gami festivals, there have been legends told of strange fish creatures which have arrived and been considered sacred. Examples of such fish creatures include familiar species of fish with multiple tails (Naumann, 1974, p. 2). Sometimes these fish were considered to be simply an offering to the deity. Other times, however, they were considered to be Ebisu himself, visiting on the festival day (Naumann, 1974, p. 2). Large marine megafaunas such as whales and whale sharks (also called as \"Ebisu-shark\") were often referred as Ebisu himself to bring mass of fish among them, and as guardians of fishermen.\n\nAnimals are frequently used for the purposes of divination.\nBirds are especially common in this role, as by their faculty of flight they offer themselves to the interpretation as messengers between the celestial and human spheres. Augury was a highly developed practice of telling the future from the flight of birds in Classical Antiquity. The dove appears as an oracular animal in the story of Noah, and also in Thisbe in Boeotia there was a dove-oracle of Zeus. Animal imagery was also often employed in the oracular utterances in Ancient Greece (Lightfoot 2008, p. 237, fn. 105). Parrot astrology is a form of divination using green parakeets which originated in South India and is still practised in modern times.\n\nIn Chinese traditional religion, the tortoise is an oracular animal.\n\nNotable oracular animals of the modern period include Lady Wonder, Punxsutawney Phil, Maggie the Monkey, Lazdeika the Crab, Paul the Octopus, and Sonny Wool.\n\nAnimals were an important aspect of the Shaman religion in Central Asia. Also known as \"assistant spirits,\" \"guardian spirits,\" and \"helping spirits,\" animal spirits are an integral part of a shaman's work. The more animal spirits a shaman had under his control, the more powerful the shaman (Waida, 1983, p. 228-229). When a shaman set out to journey spiritually to the outer world, animals were a key component, assisting him in his work. There were three primary reasons for a shaman to take such a journey: to find a lost soul, to bring an animal spirit to the high gods, or to lead a soul to its new resting place in the underworld. All of these were extremely important to followers of shamanism and animals were extremely important in facilitating the shaman's efforts (Waida, 1983, p. 231).\n\nAn example of animal spirits in Shamanism comes from the Yenisei Ostiaks culture. During a healing procedure, a shaman invokes a number of animal spirits to help him. The spirits arrive and enter his body. The shaman is not possessed by these spirits; he is free to expel them at any time (Waida, 1983, p. 223). His body begins to leap all over the place, symbolizing that his soul is rising, leaving the earth and going up to the sky. It is a bird spirit that is lifting him through the atmosphere and he cries for it to take him higher so he can see further. According to Adolf Friedrich, at this point the shaman's essence has, in fact, transformed into the bird spirit that crossed the threshold into his body (Waida, 1983, p. 223). He finally spots what he is looking for, the soul of his ill patient. Still assisting him, the animal spirits carry the shaman to the patient's soul. The shaman retrieves it and returns the soul to its rightful place, healing the patient. Without the presence of animal spirits, the shaman could not have accomplished such a feat (Waida, 1983, p. 231).\n\nIn the Inner Eurasian religion, the transformation of a shaman's essence into an animal spirit is referred to as \"becoming animal\" (Baldick 2000, p. 167). The importance of animals in this shamanic religion is shown by the capabilities that animals grant to human beings. Without the assistance of animals, humans from Inner Eurasia were not capable of reaching the sky, traveling rapidly throughout the earth, or going beneath the earth's outer crust, all of which were important activities to the culture (Baldick 2000, p. 167). Heaven was not attainable for a person without the assistance of an eagle. Because of the eagle, an animal, the Inner Eurasians believed that they were capable of achieving their after-life and living in the home of their ancestors and Supreme God after their departure from the earth (Baldick 2000, p. 167). Heaven was represented by the people in assemblies of animals, usually grouped in sevens or nines (Baldick 2000, p. 167). When participating in hunting or warfare, Inner Eurasians also took on animal qualities because they believed it would increase their success (Baldick 2000, p. 167). Animals were a central part of this religion (Baldick 2000, p. 167).\n\nOne of the most important sanctions of the Buddhist faith is the concept of ahimsa, or refraining from the destruction of life (Regenstein 1991, p. 234). According to Buddhist belief, humans do not deserve preferential treatment over other living beings. Thus, the world is not specifically meant for human use and should be shared equally amongst all creatures (Epstein 1990). Buddhists recognize that all animals are sentient and are capable of feeling pain, grief, fear, happiness, and hunger (Regenstein 1991, pp. 234–235). The Dalai Lama once said \"Even ants and other insects will run away from danger... They have intelligence and want to live too. Why should we harm them?\" (Qtd. in Regenstein 1991, p. 235). Not believing in inflicting harm on any living, sentient being, some Buddhists also follow a vegetarian diet to avoid causing pain to animals (Regenstein 1991, p. 238).\n\nAvoiding the destruction of life can affect aspects beyond a Buddhist's diet, such as travel plans. In order to avoid crushing any living thing, be it plant, insect, or animal, some Buddhist monks do not travel during rainy seasons (Regenstein 1991, p. 236). Originally, shortly after Buddhism was first founded, monks traveled during all seasons, but public opinion changed this. The people protested that so much life was crushed and destroyed when monks traveled during the wet season. As a result, monks were required to seek shelter during this season and abstain from journeys (Chapple 1993, p. 22).\n\nLiving creatures, including humans, culminate to form one large, united life-force in the Buddhist religion. Buddhists, therefore, believe that to harm another living creature is to, in fact, harm yourself as all life-forms are interrelated (Regenstein 1991, p. 237). There are many tales that depict humans sacrificing their lives so that an animal may live. A jataka, or previous incarnation story, tells how the Buddha, (upon hearing the distraught cries of a lioness struggling to feed her hungry cubs), leapt from a cliff and smashed his body to death as an offering, so that she could feed his flesh to them (Chapple 1993).\n\nHinduism is one of the six primary religions of India (Regenstein 1991, p. 221). Hinduism has evolved over several centuries from Vedic times when there was no restriction on animal worship and also animal consumption for food, to later Buddhist and Jain-influenced eras that led to a wider concept adoption of non-violence or ahimsa and respect for animals, as a major constituent in Dharmic belief systems (Regenstein 1991, p. 223). Humans and animals are believed to be one family and therefore, humans should treat all living creatures with respect and kindness. It is also believed that human beings themselves re-incarnate as animals based on their deeds or karma. Pets are often treated as if they are truly members of the family (Regenstein 1991, p. 223-224).\n\nThere are some exceptions to ahimsa in Hinduism - mainly dealing with religious rituals to please gods on special occasions and for daily sustenance. While Hindu belief proscribes the slaughter for human pleasure or lavishness , animal sacrifice has been an accepted ritual in \"some\" parts of India (Regenstein 1991, p. 225).An example of such lavishness would be hunting for pleasure, a fur coat made from animal skin, etc. An explanation for this supposed paradox is that a sacrificial animal is not really considered to be an animal, but a symbol. Thus, when the animal is sacrificed, they are sacrificing the symbol and not the animal (Regenstein 1991, p. 226).\n\nMahavira, the founder of Jainism, believed that the only way to be released from the cycle of life (birth, death, and then rebirth), one must follow, like Buddhists, ahimsa and not harm any living creature (Regenstein 1991, p. 229). Some Jains will carry a broom with them and sweep their path as they walk to avoid stepping on any living creature. Jains will also wear masks over their mouths to prevent swallowing insects and inspect their fruit for worms. The fruit inspection is not, however, because of their aversion of worms, but for the protection of the worms themselves (Regenstein 1991, p. 229-230). Jains are also only allowed to eat during daylight hours, when their vision is not restricted, so that they avoid eating insects or other small creatures that could possibly be in their food (Regenstein 1991, p. 230).\n\nJainism includes a lay form which is somewhat less restrictive (Regenstein 1991, p. 231). Basically lay Jains must distinguish between what forms of violence are necessary and unnecessary, but do not have to abstain entirely (Vallely 2002, p. 5). This results in avoiding all forms of hunting, tilling the soil (tilling involved disturbing creatures embedded in the earth), and brewing (brewing involved using living organisms such as yeasts) (Regenstein 1991, p. 231).\n\nFood will never be prepared especially for them. They beg for food from others believing that because the food was prepared for someone else, they are not the cause of violence towards living creatures (Vallely 2002, p. 5).\n\nLay Jains, who have the financial capacity, will visit animal markets and buy/rescue animals destined for slaughter for the good that it does. (Regenstein 1991, p. 232).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9347805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9347805", "title": "Anton Blok", "text": "Anton Blok\n\nAnton Blok (born 1935 in Amsterdam) is an anthropologist, famous for studying the Mafia in Sicily in 1960s. Anton Blok was a visiting professor at the University of Michigan (1972-1973) and University of California, Berkeley in 1988. From 1973 until 1986, he served as full professor of cultural anthropology at Radboud University, Nijmegen. He then accepted a chair at the University of Amsterdam, where he remained until his retirement. For that occasion, thirty of his international colleagues and former students contributed essays in his honor, an edited volume titled as \"Miniature Etnografiche\" (SUN 2000). Now a professor \"emeritus\" professor at U Amsterdam, Dr. Blok also spent one semester at Yale as a fellow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "599809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599809", "title": "Asado", "text": "Asado\n\nHuge herds of wild cattle roamed much of the pampa region of Argentina until the mid-nineteenth century. Inhabitants of the Río de la Plata, especially the equestrian gaucho, developed a fondness for beef, especially asado, which is roasted beef (or lamb or goat). The meat, often a side of ribs, is skewered on a metal frame called an asador and is roasted by placing it next to a slow-burning fire. Gauchos favored cooking asado with the wood of the quebracho tree because it smokes very little. Asado, accompanied by maté tea, formed the basis of the gaucho diet.\n\nUsually the \"asador\" begins by igniting the charcoal, which is often made of native trees, avoiding pines and eucalyptus as they have strong-smelling resins. In more sophisticated \"asados\" the charcoal is of a specific tree or made on the coal of recently burned wood, which is also commonplace when having an \"asado\" in a campfire. In Uruguay, charcoal is not used, but instead direct embers or hot coals.\n\nCooking can be done \"al asador\" or \"a la parrilla\". In the first case a fire is made on the ground or in a fire pit and surrounded by metal crosses (\"asadores\") that hold the entire carcass of an animal splayed open to receive the heat from the fire. In the second case a fire is made and after the charcoal has formed, a grill with the meat is placed over it.\n\nIn many \"asados\", \"chorizos\", \"morcillas\" (black pudding), \"chinchulines\" (cow chitterlings), \"mollejas\" (sweetbreads), and other organs, often accompanied by \"provoleta\", would be served first while the cuts that require longer preparations are still on the grill. Sometimes these are served on a charcoal \"brasero\". \"Chorizos\" may be served with \"pan felipe\" or baguette bread, often called \"choripán\".\n\nAfter appetizers, \"costillas\" or \"asado de tira\" (ribs) can be served. Next comes \"vacío\" (flank steak), \"matambre\" and possibly chicken and \"\" (goatling). Dishes such as \"pamplona\", pork, and Patagonian lamb are becoming more frequent, particularly in restaurants. An \"asado\" also includes bread, a simple mixed salad of, for instance, lettuce, tomato, and onions, or it could be accompanied with \"verdurajo\" (grilled vegetables), a mixture made of potatoes, corn, onion, and eggplant cooked on the grill and seasoned with olive oil and salt. Beer, wine, soft drink, and other beverages are common. Dessert is usually fresh fruit.\nAnother traditional form to mainly roast the meat, used in Patagonia, is with the whole animal (especially lamb and pork) in a wood stick nailed in the ground and exposed to the heat of live coals, called \"asado al palo\".\n\nThe meat for an \"asado\" is not marinated, the only preparation being the application of salt before or during the cooking period. Also, the heat and distance from the coals are controlled to provide a slow cooking; it usually takes around two hours to cook \"asado\". Further, grease from the meat is not encouraged to fall on the coals and create smoke which would adversely flavour the meat. In some \"asados\" the area directly under the meat is kept clear of coals.\n\nThe \"asado\" is usually placed in a tray to be immediately served, but it can also be placed on a brasero right on the table to keep the meat warm. \"Chimichurri\", a sauce of chopped parsley, dried oregano, garlic, salt, black pepper, onion, and paprika with olive oil, or \"salsa criolla\", a sauce of tomato and onion in vinegar, are common accompaniments to an \"asado\", where they are traditionally used on the offal, but not the steaks.\n\nFood is often accompanied by salads, which in \"asado\" gatherings are traditionally made by women on site or brought to the \"asado\" from their homes while the men focus on the meats. Salad Olivier (\"ensalada rusa\") is one of the most common salads served at \"asados\". In Paraguay Chipa Guasu, sopa paraguaya and boiled manioc as a side dish is also served.\n\nIn Chile, the normal version \"=cordero al palo\" (whole roast lamb) is usually accompanied with \"pebre\", a local condiment made from pureed herbs, garlic, and hot peppers; in many ways similar to \"chimichurri\". The dish is typical of southern Chile and is served hot accompanied by salads. A whole lamb is tied to a spit and is then roasted perpendicular on a wood fire. The preparation lasts around 5 hours since cooking must be constant and on a low heat.\nThis is not to be confused with \"asado\" in the Philippines, which is a dish cooked in a sweet, tomato-based stew usually accompanied by potatoes, carrots, and other vegetables. True to the \"East-meets-West\" nature of Filipino cuisine and culture in general, \"asado\" is also used as a filling in ' (), the local variant of ' (包子). There is also a version of \"asado\" that is of Filipino-Chinese origin: the term is used for dried, red-coloured sweetmeats that are otherwise known by its Cantonese name, \"\".\n\nIn Brazil, \"asado\" is called \"\", although the cooking is usually faster. Grilled and salted meat in Brazil is generally called \"carne assada\" and is often cut into small strips and served on a plate or cutting board in the middle of the table for all to partake. Various grilled meats, pork, sausages and occasionally chicken are also passed around from table to table on a spit and a slice is offered to each person. This is called \"rodizio\" because each person partakes in turn. Charcoal is predominantly used instead of embers of wood, and Brazilians tend to cook the meat on skewers or grills. In some places, the meat is seasoned with salt and a little sugar.\n\nIn Mexico, there is similar tradition of as \"parrilladas\" or \"carne asadas\", which incorporates various marinated cuts of meat, including steaks, chicken, and sausages (\"chorizo\", \"longaniza\", and \"moronga\" being especially popular). These are all grilled over wood charcoal. Vegetables are also placed over the grill, especially green onions (\"cebollitas\"), \"nopales\", and corn (elote\").\n\nAgain, in Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay, some alternatives are the \"asado al disco\" and \"asado al horno de barro\", especially in the countryside. The recipe doesn't change, only the way of cooking. In the \"asado al disco\" the worn-out disc of a plough is used. Being metallic and concave, three or four metallic legs are welded and with hot coal or lumber below it is easily transformed into an effective grill. Food is put in a spiral, in such a way that the fat naturally slips to the center, preserving the meat for being fried. Bell peppers and onions are usually put next to the edge, so that they gradually release their juices on the meat. The \"asado al horno de barro\" differs from tradition, as an adobe\"horno\" (oven, called tatakua in Paraguay) is used. These ovens are a common view in Argentine and Paraguayan \"estancias\"; their primary function is to bake bread, Chipa Guasu and Sopa paraguaya, but they are well suited for roasting meat. Pork suckling and, less commonly, lamb are served, as they are more unlikely to become dry.\nAnother way of cooking the asado is inside a \"chulengo\", an oil barrel (or similar) cut in half, inside which the grill is placed to protect both the meat and fire from heavy winds. This makes the \"chulengo\" specially used in the Patagonia, although it's also used in other areas for practicality and the ability to move it around.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "64976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64976", "title": "Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder", "text": "Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder\n\nAttention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a mental disorder of the neurodevelopmental type. It is characterized by problems paying attention, excessive activity, or difficulty controlling behavior which is not appropriate for a person's age. The symptoms appear before a person is twelve years old, are present for more than six months, and cause problems in at least two settings (such as school, home, or recreational activities). In children, problems paying attention may result in poor school performance. Additionally there is an association with other mental disorders and substance misuse. Although it causes impairment, particularly in modern society, many children with ADHD have a good attention span for tasks they find interesting.\nDespite being the most commonly studied and diagnosed mental disorder in children and adolescents, the exact cause is unknown in the majority of cases. It affects about 5–7% of children when diagnosed via the DSM-IV criteria and 1–2% when diagnosed via the ICD-10 criteria. As of 2015 it is estimated to affect about 51.1 million people globally. Rates are similar between countries and depend mostly on how it is diagnosed. ADHD is diagnosed approximately three times more often in boys than in girls, although the disorder is often overlooked in girls because their symptoms differ from those of boys. About 30–50% of people diagnosed in childhood continue to have symptoms into adulthood and between 2–5% of adults have the condition. In adults inner restlessness rather than hyperactivity may occur. The condition can be difficult to tell apart from other conditions, as well as to distinguish from high levels of activity that are still within the range of normative behaviors.\nADHD management recommendations vary by country and usually involve some combination of counseling, lifestyle changes, and medications. The British guideline only recommends medications as a first-line treatment in children who have severe symptoms and for medication to be considered in those with moderate symptoms who either refuse or fail to improve with counseling, though for adults medications are a first-line treatment. Canadian and American guidelines recommend that medications and behavioral therapy be used together as a first-line therapy, except in preschool-aged children. Stimulant medication therapy is not recommended as a first-line therapy in preschool-aged children in either guideline. Treatment with stimulants is effective for up to 14 months; however, its long term effectiveness is unclear. Adults often develop coping skills which make up for some or all of their impairments.\nThe medical literature has described symptoms similar to those of ADHD since the 19th century. ADHD, its diagnosis, and its treatment have been considered controversial since the 1970s. The controversies have involved clinicians, teachers, policymakers, parents, and the media. Topics include ADHD's causes and the use of stimulant medications in its treatment. Most healthcare providers accept ADHD as a genuine disorder in children and adults, and the debate in the scientific community mainly centers on how it is diagnosed and treated. The condition was officially known as attention-deficit disorder (ADD) from 1980 to 1987, while before this it was known as hyperkinetic reaction of childhood.\n\nInattention, hyperactivity (restlessness in adults), disruptive behavior, and impulsivity are common in ADHD. Academic difficulties are frequent as are problems with relationships. The symptoms can be difficult to define, as it is hard to draw a line at where normal levels of inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity end and significant levels requiring interventions begin.\n\nAccording to the fifth version of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-5), symptoms must be present for six months or more to a degree that is much greater than others of the same age and they must cause significant problems functioning in at least two settings (e.g., social, school/work, or home). The full criteria must have been met prior to age twelve in order to receive a diagnosis of ADHD.\n\nADHD is divided into three subtypes: predominantly inattentive (ADHD-PI or ADHD-I), predominantly hyperactive-impulsive (ADHD-PH or ADHD-HI), and combined type (ADHD-C).\n\nA child with ADHD inattentive type has most or all of following symptoms, excluding situations where these symptoms are better explained by another psychiatric or medical condition:\n\n\nA child with ADHD hyperactive-impulsive type has most or all of the following symptoms, excluding situations where these symptoms are better explained by another psychiatric or medical condition:\n\nGirls with ADHD tend to display fewer hyperactivity and impulsivity symptoms but more symptoms pertaining to inattention and distractability. Symptoms of hyperactivity tend to go away with age and turn into \"inner restlessness\" in teens and adults with ADHD.\n\nPeople with ADHD of all ages are more likely to have problems with social skills, such as social interaction and forming and maintaining friendships. This is true for all subtypes. About half of children and adolescents with ADHD experience social rejection by their peers compared to 10–15% of non-ADHD children and adolescents. People with attention deficits are prone to having difficulty processing verbal and nonverbal language which can negatively affect social interaction. They also may drift off during conversations, miss social cues, and have trouble learning social skills.\n\nDifficulties managing anger are more common in children with ADHD as are poor handwriting and delays in speech, language and motor development. Although it causes significant difficulty, many children with ADHD have an attention span equal to or better than that of other children for tasks and subjects they find interesting.\n\nIn children, ADHD occurs with other disorders about two-thirds of the time. Some commonly associated conditions include:\n\n\nOverall, studies have shown that people with ADHD tend to have lower scores on intelligence quotient (IQ) tests. The significance of this is controversial due to the differences between people with ADHD and the difficulty determining the influence of symptoms, such as distractibility, on lower scores rather than intellectual capacity. In studies of ADHD, higher IQs may be over represented because many studies exclude individuals who have lower IQs despite those with ADHD scoring on average nine points lower on standardized intelligence measures.\n\nStudies of adults suggest that differences in intelligence are not meaningful and may be explained by associated health problems.\n\nMost ADHD cases are of unknown causes. It is believed to involve interactions between genetics, the environment, and social factors. Certain cases are related to previous infection of or trauma to the brain.\n\nTwin studies indicate that the disorder is often inherited from one's parents with genetics determining about 75% of cases. Siblings of children with ADHD are three to four times more likely to develop the disorder than siblings of children without the disorder. Genetic factors are also believed to be involved in determining whether ADHD persists into adulthood.\n\nTypically, a number of genes are involved, many of which directly affect dopamine neurotransmission. Those involved with dopamine include DAT, DRD4, DRD5, TAAR1, MAOA, COMT, and DBH. Other genes associated with ADHD include SERT, HTR1B, SNAP25, GRIN2A, ADRA2A, TPH2, and BDNF. A common variant of a gene called Latrophilin 3 is estimated to be responsible for about 9% of cases and when this variant is present, people are particularly responsive to stimulant medication. The 7 repeat variant of dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4–7R) causes increased inhibitory effects induced by dopamine and is associated with ADHD. The DRD4 receptor is a G protein-coupled receptor that inhibits adenylyl cyclase. The DRD4–7R mutation results in a wide range of behavioral phenotypes, including ADHD symptoms reflecting split attention.\n\nEvolution may have played a role in the high rates of ADHD, particularly hyperactive and impulsive traits in males. Some have hypothesized that some women may be more attracted to males who are risk takers, increasing the frequency of genes that predispose to hyperactivity and impulsivity in the gene pool. Others have claimed that these traits may be an adaptation that help males face stressful or dangerous environments with, for example, increased impulsivity and exploratory behavior. In certain situations, ADHD traits may have been beneficial to society as a whole even while being harmful to the individual. The high rates and heterogeneity of ADHD may have increased reproductive fitness and benefited society by adding diversity to the gene pool despite being detrimental to the individual. In certain environments, some ADHD traits may have offered personal advantages to individuals, such as quicker response to predators or superior hunting skills.\n\nPeople with Down syndrome are more likely to have ADHD.\n\nIn addition to genetics, some environmental factors might play a role in causing ADHD. Alcohol intake during pregnancy can cause fetal alcohol spectrum disorders which can include ADHD or symptoms like it. Children exposed to certain toxic substances, such as lead or polychlorinated biphenyls, may develop problems which resemble ADHD. Exposure to the organophosphate insecticides chlorpyrifos and dialkyl phosphate is associated with an increased risk; however, the evidence is not conclusive. Exposure to tobacco smoke during pregnancy can cause problems with central nervous system development and can increase the risk of ADHD.\n\nExtreme premature birth, very low birth weight, and extreme neglect, abuse, or social deprivation also increase the risk as do certain infections during pregnancy, at birth, and in early childhood. These infections include, among others, various viruses (measles, varicella zoster encephalitis, rubella, enterovirus 71). There is an association between long term but not short term use of acetaminophen during pregnancy and ADHD. At least 30% of children with a traumatic brain injury later develop ADHD and about 5% of cases are due to brain damage.\n\nSome studies suggest that in a small number of children, artificial food dyes or preservatives may be associated with an increased prevalence of ADHD or ADHD-like symptoms, but the evidence is weak and may only apply to children with food sensitivities. The United Kingdom and the European Union have put in place regulatory measures based on these concerns. In a minority of children, intolerances or allergies to certain foods may worsen ADHD symptoms.\nResearch does not support popular beliefs that ADHD is caused by eating too much refined sugar, watching too much television, parenting, poverty or family chaos; however, they might worsen ADHD symptoms in certain people.\n\nIn some cases, the diagnosis of ADHD may reflect a dysfunctional family or a poor educational system, rather than problems with the individuals themselves. In other cases, it may be explained by increasing academic expectations, with a diagnosis being a method for parents in some countries to get extra financial and educational support for their child. Typical behaviors of ADHD occur more commonly in children who have experienced violence and emotional abuse.\n\nThe social construct theory of ADHD suggests that because the boundaries between \"normal\" and \"abnormal\" behavior are socially constructed, (i.e. jointly created and validated by all members of society, and in particular by physicians, parents, teachers, and others) it then follows that subjective valuations and judgements determine which diagnostic criteria are used and, thus, the number of people affected. This could lead to the situation where the DSM-IV arrives at levels of ADHD three to four times higher than those obtained with the ICD-10. Thomas Szasz, a supporter of this theory, has argued that ADHD was \" ... invented and then given a name\".\n\nThe youngest children in a class have been found to be more likely to be diagnosed as having ADHD possibly due to their being developmentally behind their older classmates. This effect has been seen across a number of countries. They also appear to use ADHD medications at nearly twice the rate as their peers.\n\nCurrent models of ADHD suggest that it is associated with functional impairments in some of the brain's neurotransmitter systems, particularly those involving dopamine and norepinephrine. The dopamine and norepinephrine pathways that originate in the ventral tegmental area and locus coeruleus project to diverse regions of the brain and govern a variety of cognitive processes. The dopamine pathways and norepinephrine pathways which project to the prefrontal cortex and striatum are directly responsible for modulating executive function (cognitive control of behavior), motivation, reward perception, and motor function; these pathways are known to play a central role in the pathophysiology of ADHD. Larger models of ADHD with additional pathways have been proposed.\n\nIn children with ADHD, there is a general reduction of volume in certain brain structures, with a proportionally greater decrease in the volume in the left-sided prefrontal cortex. The posterior parietal cortex also shows thinning in ADHD individuals compared to controls. Other brain structures in the prefrontal-striatal-cerebellar and prefrontal-striatal-thalamic circuits have also been found to differ between people with and without ADHD.\n\nThe subcortical volumes of the accumbens, amygdala, caudate, hippocampus, and putamen appears smaller in individuals with ADHD compared with controls. Inter-hemispheric asymmetries in white matter tracts have also been noted in ADHD youths, suggesting that disruptions in temporal integration may be related to the behavioral characteristics of ADHD.\n\nPreviously it was thought that the elevated number of dopamine transporters in people with ADHD was part of the pathophysiology but it appears that the elevated numbers are due to adaptation to exposure to stimulants. Current models involve the mesocorticolimbic dopamine pathway and the locus coeruleus-noradrenergic system. ADHD psychostimulants possess treatment efficacy because they increase neurotransmitter activity in these systems. There may additionally be abnormalities in serotoninergic, glutamatergic, or cholinergic pathways.\n\nThe symptoms of ADHD arise from a deficiency in certain executive functions (e.g., attentional control, inhibitory control, and working memory). Executive functions are a set of cognitive processes that are required to successfully select and monitor behaviors that facilitate the attainment of one's chosen goals. The executive function impairments that occur in ADHD individuals result in problems with staying organized, time keeping, excessive procrastination, maintaining concentration, paying attention, ignoring distractions, regulating emotions, and remembering details. People with ADHD appear to have unimpaired long-term memory, and deficits in long-term recall appear to be attributed to impairments in working memory. The criteria for an executive function deficit are met in 30–50% of children and adolescents with ADHD. One study found that 80% of individuals with ADHD were impaired in at least one executive function task, compared to 50% for individuals without ADHD. Due to the rates of brain maturation and the increasing demands for executive control as a person gets older, ADHD impairments may not fully manifest themselves until adolescence or even early adulthood.\n\nADHD has also been associated with motivational deficits in children. Children with ADHD often find it difficult to focus on long-term over short-term rewards, and exhibit impulsive behavior for short-term rewards.\n\nADHD is diagnosed by an assessment of a child's behavioral and mental development, including ruling out the effects of drugs, medications and other medical or psychiatric problems as explanations for the symptoms. It often takes into account feedback from parents and teachers with most diagnoses begun after a teacher raises concerns. It may be viewed as the extreme end of one or more continuous human traits found in all people. Whether someone responds to medications does not confirm or rule out the diagnosis. As imaging studies of the brain do not give consistent results between individuals, they are only used for research purposes and not diagnosis.\n\nIn North America, DSM-5 criteria are used for diagnosis, while European countries usually use the ICD-10. With the DSM-IV criteria a diagnosis of ADHD is more likely than with the ICD-10 criteria. It is classified as neurodevelopmental psychiatric disorder. Additionally, it is classified as a disruptive behavior disorder along with oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, and antisocial personality disorder. A diagnosis does not imply a neurological disorder.\n\nAssociated conditions that should be screened for include anxiety, depression, oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, and learning and language disorders. Other conditions that should be considered are other neurodevelopmental disorders, tics, and sleep apnea.\n\nDiagnosis of ADHD using quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG) is an ongoing area of investigation, although the value of QEEG in ADHD is currently unclear. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration has approved the use of QEEG to evaluate ADHD. The approved test uses the ratio of EEG theta to beta activity to guide diagnosis; however, at least five studies have failed to replicate the finding.\n\nSelf-rating scales, such as the ADHD rating scale and the Vanderbilt ADHD diagnostic rating scale are used in the screening and evaluation of ADHD.\n\nAs with many other psychiatric disorders, formal diagnosis should be made by a qualified professional based on a set number of criteria. In the United States, these criteria are defined by the American Psychiatric Association in the DSM. Based on the DSM criteria, there are three sub-types of ADHD:\n\n\nThis subdivision is based on presence of at least six out of nine long-term (lasting at least six months) symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity–impulsivity, or both. To be considered, the symptoms must have appeared by the age of six to twelve and occur in more than one environment (e.g. at home and at school or work). The symptoms must be inappropriate for a child of that age and there must be clear evidence that they are causing social, school or work related problems.\n\nIn the tenth revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10) by the World Health Organization, the symptoms of \"hyperkinetic disorder\" are analogous to ADHD in the DSM-5. When a conduct disorder (as defined by ICD-10) is present, the condition is referred to as \"hyperkinetic conduct disorder\". Otherwise, the disorder is classified as \"disturbance of activity and attention\", \"other hyperkinetic disorders\" or \"hyperkinetic disorders, unspecified\". The latter is sometimes referred to as \"hyperkinetic syndrome\".\n\nIn the implementation version of ICD-11, the disorder is classified under 6A05 \"(Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder)\" and hyperkinetic disorder no longer exists.\n\nAdults with ADHD are diagnosed under the same criteria, including that their signs must have been present by the age of six to twelve. Questioning parents or guardians as to how the person behaved and developed as a child may form part of the assessment; a family history of ADHD also adds weight to a diagnosis. While the core symptoms of ADHD are similar in children and adults they often present differently in adults than in children, for example excessive physical activity seen in children may present as feelings of restlessness and constant mental activity in adults.\n\nIt is estimated that between 2–5% of adults have ADHD. Around 25–50% of children with ADHD continue to experience ADHD symptoms into adulthood, while the rest experiences fewer or no symptoms. Currently, most adults remain untreated. Many adults with ADHD without diagnosis and treatment have a disorganized life and some use non-prescribed drugs or alcohol as a coping mechanism. Other problems may include relationship and job difficulties, and an increased risk of criminal activities. Associated mental health problems include: depression, anxiety disorder, and learning disabilities.\n\nSome ADHD symptoms in adults differ from those seen in children. While children with ADHD may climb and run about excessively, adults may experience an inability to relax, or they talk excessively in social situations. Adults with ADHD may start relationships impulsively, display sensation-seeking behavior, and be short-tempered. Addictive behavior such as substance abuse and gambling are common. The DSM-V criteria do specifically deal with adults, unlike those in DSM-IV, which were criticized for not being appropriate for adults; those who presented differently may lead to the claim that they outgrew the diagnosis.\n\nSymptoms of ADHD, such as low mood and poor self-image, mood swings, and irritability, can be confused with dysthymia, cyclothymia or bipolar disorder as well as with borderline personality disorder. Some symptoms that are due to anxiety disorders, antisocial personality disorder, developmental disabilities or mental retardation or the effects of substance abuse such as intoxication and withdrawal can overlap with some ADHD. These disorders can also sometimes occur along with ADHD. Medical conditions which can cause ADHD type symptoms include: hyperthyroidism, seizure disorder, lead toxicity, hearing deficits, hepatic disease, sleep apnea, drug interactions, untreated celiac disease, and head injury.\n\nPrimary sleep disorders may affect attention and behavior and the symptoms of ADHD may affect sleep. It is thus recommended that children with ADHD be regularly assessed for sleep problems. Sleepiness in children may result in symptoms ranging from the classic ones of yawning and rubbing the eyes, to hyperactivity and inattentiveness. Obstructive sleep apnea can also cause ADHD type symptoms.\n\nReviews of ADHD biomarkers have noted that platelet monoamine oxidase expression, urinary norepinephrine, urinary MHPG, and urinary phenethylamine levels consistently differ between ADHD individuals and healthy control. These measurements could potentially serve as diagnostic biomarkers for ADHD, but more research is needed to establish their diagnostic utility. Urinary and blood plasma phenethylamine concentrations are lower in ADHD individuals relative to controls and the two most commonly prescribed drugs for ADHD, amphetamine and methylphenidate, increase phenethylamine biosynthesis in treatment-responsive individuals with ADHD. Lower urinary phenethylamine concentrations are also associated with symptoms of inattentiveness in ADHD individuals. Electroencephalography (EEG) is not accurate enough to make the diagnosis.\n\nThe management of ADHD typically involves counseling or medications either alone or in combination. While treatment may improve long-term outcomes, it does not get rid of negative outcomes entirely. Medications used include stimulants, atomoxetine, alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonists, and sometimes antidepressants. In those who have trouble focusing on long-term rewards, a large amount of positive reinforcement improves task performance. ADHD stimulants also improve persistence and task performance in children with ADHD.\n\nThere is good evidence for the use of behavioral therapies in ADHD and they are the recommended first line treatment in those who have mild symptoms or are preschool-aged. Psychological therapies used include: psychoeducational input, behavior therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), interpersonal psychotherapy, family therapy, school-based interventions, social skills training, behavioral peer intervention, organization training, parent management training, and neurofeedback. Parent training may improve a number of behavioral problems including oppositional and noncompliant behaviors. It is unclear if neurofeedback is useful.\n\nThere is little high quality research on the effectiveness of family therapy for ADHD, but the evidence that exists shows that it is similar to community care and better than a placebo. ADHD-specific support groups can provide information and may help families cope with ADHD.\n\nTraining in social skills, behavioral modification and medication may have some limited beneficial effects. The most important factor in reducing later psychological problems, such as major depression, criminality, school failure, and substance use disorders is formation of friendships with people who are not involved in delinquent activities.\n\nRegular physical exercise, particularly aerobic exercise, is an effective add-on treatment for ADHD in children and adults, particularly when combined with stimulant medication, although the best intensity and type of aerobic exercise for improving symptoms are not currently known. In particular, the long-term effects of regular aerobic exercise in ADHD individuals include better behavior and motor abilities, improved executive functions (including attention, inhibitory control, and planning, among other cognitive domains), faster information processing speed, and better memory. Parent-teacher ratings of behavioral and socio-emotional outcomes in response to regular aerobic exercise include: better overall function, reduced ADHD symptoms, better self-esteem, reduced levels of anxiety and depression, fewer somatic complaints, better academic and classroom behavior, and improved social behavior. Exercising while on stimulant medication augments the effect of stimulant medication on executive function. It is believed that these short-term effects of exercise are mediated by an increased abundance of synaptic dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain.\n\nStimulant medications are the pharmaceutical treatment of choice. They have at least some effect on symptoms, in the short term, in about 80% of people. Methylphenidate appears to improve symptoms as reported by teachers and parents. Stimulants may also reduce the risk of unintentional injuries in children with ADHD.\n\nThere are a number of non-stimulant medications, such as atomoxetine, bupropion, guanfacine, and clonidine that may be used as alternatives, or added to stimulant therapy. There are no good studies comparing the various medications; however, they appear more or less equal with respect to side effects. Stimulants appear to improve academic performance while atomoxetine does not. Atomoxetine, due to its lack of addiction liability, may be preferred in those who are at risk of recreational or compulsive stimulant use. There is little evidence on the effects of medication on social behaviors. , the long-term effects of ADHD medication have yet to be fully determined. Magnetic resonance imaging studies suggest that long-term treatment with amphetamine or methylphenidate decreases abnormalities in brain structure and function found in subjects with ADHD.\n\nGuidelines on when to use medications vary by country, with the United Kingdom's National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommending use for children only in severe cases, though for adults medication is a first-line treatment. While most United States guidelines recommend medications in most age groups. Medications are not recommended for preschool children. Underdosing of stimulants can occur and result in a lack of response or later loss of effectiveness. This is particularly common in adolescents and adults as approved dosing is based on school-aged children, causing some practitioners to use weight based or benefit based off-label dosing instead. School-age boys are twice as likely as their female counterparts to take medication, while among adults, women are far more likely to take medication than men.\n\nWhile stimulants and atomoxetine are usually safe, there are side-effects and contraindications to their use. There is low quality evidence of an association between methylphenidate and both serious and non-serious harmful side effects when taken by children and adolescents. Careful monitoring of children while taking this medication is recommended. A large overdose on ADHD stimulants is commonly associated with symptoms such as stimulant psychosis and mania. Although very rare, at therapeutic doses these events appear to occur in approximately 0.1% of individuals within the first several weeks after starting amphetamine therapy. Administration of an antipsychotic medication has been found to effectively resolve the symptoms of acute amphetamine psychosis. Regular monitoring has been recommended in those on long-term treatment. Stimulant therapy should be stopped periodically to assess continuing need for medication, decrease possible growth delay, and reduce tolerance. Long-term misuse of stimulant medications at doses above the therapeutic range for ADHD treatment is associated with addiction and dependence. Untreated ADHD, however, is also associated with elevated risk of substance use disorders and conduct disorders. The use of stimulants appears to either reduce this risk or have no effect on it. The safety of these medications in pregnancy is unclear.\n\nDietary modifications may be of benefit to a small proportion of children with ADHD. A 2013 meta-analysis found less than a third of children with ADHD see some improvement in symptoms with free fatty acid supplementation or decreased eating of artificial food coloring. These benefits may be limited to children with food sensitivities or those who are simultaneously being treated with ADHD medications. This review also found that evidence does not support removing other foods from the diet to treat ADHD. A 2014 review found that an elimination diet results in a small overall benefit. A 2016 review stated that the use of a gluten-free diet as standard ADHD treatment is discouraged. Chronic deficiencies of iron, magnesium and iodine may have a negative impact on ADHD symptoms. There is a small amount of evidence that lower tissue zinc levels may be associated with ADHD. In the absence of a demonstrated zinc deficiency (which is rare outside of developing countries), zinc supplementation is not recommended as treatment for ADHD. However, zinc supplementation may reduce the minimum effective dose of amphetamine when it is used with amphetamine for the treatment of ADHD. There is evidence of a modest benefit of omega 3 fatty acid supplementation, but it is not recommended in place of traditional medication.\n\nADHD persists into adulthood in about 30–50% of cases. Those affected are likely to develop coping mechanisms as they mature, thus compensating to some extent for their previous symptoms. Children with ADHD have a higher risk of unintentional injuries. Effects of medication on functional impairment and quality of life (e.g. reduced risk of accidents) have been found across multiple domains. But learning disorders and executive function deficits do not seem to respond to ADHD medications.\n\nADHD is estimated to affect about 6–7% of people aged 18 and under when diagnosed via the DSM-IV criteria. When diagnosed via the ICD-10 criteria rates in this age group are estimated at 1–2%. Children in North America appear to have a higher rate of ADHD than children in Africa and the Middle East; this is believed to be due to differing methods of diagnosis rather than a difference in underlying frequency. If the same diagnostic methods are used, the rates are more or less the same between countries. It is diagnosed approximately three times more often in boys than in girls. This difference between sexes may reflect either a difference in susceptibility or that females with ADHD are less likely to be diagnosed than males.\n\nRates of diagnosis and treatment have increased in both the United Kingdom and the United States since the 1970s. This is believed to be primarily due to changes in how the condition is diagnosed and how readily people are willing to treat it with medications rather than a true change in how common the condition is. It is believed that changes to the diagnostic criteria in 2013 with the release of the DSM-5 will increase the percentage of people diagnosed with ADHD, especially among adults.\n\nHyperactivity has long been part of the human condition. Sir Alexander Crichton describes \"mental restlessness\" in his book \"An inquiry into the nature and origin of mental derangement\" written in 1798. ADHD was first clearly described by George Still in 1902.\n\nThe terminology used to describe the condition has changed over time and has included: in the DSM-I (1952) \"minimal brain dysfunction,\" in the DSM-II (1968) \"hyperkinetic reaction of childhood,\" and in the DSM-III (1980) \"attention-deficit disorder (ADD) with or without hyperactivity.\" In 1987 this was changed to ADHD in the DSM-III-R and the DSM-IV in 1994 split the diagnosis into three subtypes, ADHD inattentive type, ADHD hyperactive-impulsive type and ADHD combined type. These terms were kept in the DSM-5 in 2013. Other terms have included \"minimal brain damage\" used in the 1930s.\n\nThe use of stimulants to treat ADHD was first described in 1937. In 1934, Benzedrine became the first amphetamine medication approved for use in the United States. Methylphenidate was introduced in the 1950s, and enantiopure dextroamphetamine in the 1970s.\n\nADHD, its diagnosis, and its treatment have been controversial since the 1970s. The controversies involve clinicians, teachers, policymakers, parents, and the media. Positions range from the view that ADHD is within the normal range of behavior to the hypothesis that ADHD is a genetic condition. Other areas of controversy include the use of stimulant medications in children, the method of diagnosis, and the possibility of overdiagnosis. In 2009, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, while acknowledging the controversy, states that the current treatments and methods of diagnosis are based on the dominant view of the academic literature. In 2014, Keith Conners, one of the early advocates for recognition of the disorder, spoke out against overdiagnosis in a \"The New York Times\" article. In contrast, a 2014 peer-reviewed medical literature review indicated that ADHD is underdiagnosed in adults.\n\nWith widely differing rates of diagnosis across countries, states within countries, races, and ethnicities, some suspect factors other than the presence of the symptoms of ADHD are playing a role in diagnosis. Some sociologists consider ADHD to be an example of the medicalization of deviant behavior, that is, the turning of the previously issue of school performance into a medical one. Most healthcare providers accept ADHD as a genuine disorder, at least in the small number of people with severe symptoms. Among healthcare providers the debate mainly centers on diagnosis and treatment in the much greater number of people with mild symptoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "28408544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28408544", "title": "Basavarajavijaya", "text": "Basavarajavijaya\n\nBasavarajavijaya ( ಬಸವರಾಜ ವಿಜಯ) also known as Vrushabhendra Vijaya(ವೃಷಭೇನ್ದ್ರ ವಿಜಯ) was written by Shadaksharadeva in the 17th century. The book narrates the life story of Basavanna and the sharanas.\n\nThe book is written in the champu style, and it is the last of the champu tradition started by Pampa.\n\n"}
{"id": "17735985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17735985", "title": "Beethoven (franchise)", "text": "Beethoven (franchise)\n\nThe Beethoven film series is a series of eight American films, created by John Hughes (credited as Edmond Dantès) and Amy Holden Jones, in which the plot revolves around a family attempting to control the antics of their pet Saint Bernard. The first two films were theatrical releases and all after have been direct to video. The original \"Beethoven\" hit theaters in April 1992. Its opening grossed $7,587,565. It was the year's 26th largest grossing film in the U.S. at $57,114,049.\n\nIn \"Beethoven\", the Newton family finds and adopts a Saint Bernard. The family, with the exception of the father, George (Charles Grodin), becomes attached to the dog. Meanwhile, a sadistic veterinarian, Dr. Herman Varnick (Dean Jones) involved with animal experimentation is planning to kill Beethoven for his latest experiment, and George, after discovering his fondness for the dog, springs into action to rescue his pet. \"Beethoven\" was released on April 3, 1992.\n\nIn \"Beethoven's 2nd\", Beethoven sires a litter of puppies, and the Newton family tries to save them from the greedy owner, who alternatively wishes to kill or sell the puppies. \"Beethoven's 2nd\" was released on December 17, 1993.\n\nIn \"Beethoven's 3rd\", the dog is sent across the country in an RV to attend a family reunion. \"Beethoven's 3rd\" was released on October 31, 2000.\n\nBeethoven accidentally switches places with Michelangelo, a well-behaved look alike. \"Beethoven's 4th\" was released on December 4, 2001.\n\nSara takes Beethoven to visit her crazy uncle. The last installment of the original storyline. \"Beethoven's 5th\" was released on December 2, 2003.\n\nThe first installment of a new storyline. A stray St. Bernard becomes a movie star. \"Beethoven's Big Break\" was released on December 30, 2008.\n\nThis story is narrated by John Cleese, who tells of the story of Beethoven's Christmas adventure. At the North Pole, Santa is giving out jobs to over 200 new elves. One of the elves, Henry, is assigned the job as a stable elf by taking care of the reindeer. Henry objects, claiming that the job as a stable elf is unclean, but Santa didn't change his mind. Henry tried making a toy one night in order to prove Santa Wrong but Henry got zapped by his own creation and inadvertently fed the magic berries to the reindeer which in turn began to fly away with the sleigh, with Henry inside it. During the flight, Henry loses Santa's toy bag.\n\nIn Wood haven Minnesota, Mason Cooper is unsuccessfully trying to sell hot chocolate his mother Christine stops by and asks her son to watch Beethoven. Beethoven was going to star in the Christmas parade and Christine was assigned by her boss Mr. Rexford to create a Hollywood themed float for the parade. While Mason was babysitting him Beethoven sees Santa's sleigh with Henry in it flying over the town and he follows the sleigh. He and Mason find Henry who evicted himself from the sleigh. Henry asks Mason for help in finding Santa's toy bag. At first Mason doesn't believe Henry is a real Christmas elf and that Santa wasn't real until he witnessed Henry communicating with Beethoven with a magic candy that when licked can give the human the ability to communicate with dogs.\n\nElsewhere, grumpy Sylvester Smirch is the owner of a toy store called Most Wanted Toys he and his assistant Kenny had been secretly stealing toys from other stores then overpricing the stolen toys. While driving on the highway. Smirch comes across Santa's Toy Bag and only realizes what it is after pulling out several toys from it to see them increase to full size. Before leaving with the toy bag Smirch is witnessed by a stray whose foot was stuck to an old mattress.\n\nBack at The Cooper household Henry lies to Mason saying that he is a Christmas elf, one that makes toys. Christine returns home and evicts Henry because she didn't believe that he was a real Christmas elf. Mason secretly lets Henry spend the night in the Garage.\n\nThe next morning Henry and Beethoven leave to find the magic toy sack. Henry had a piece of fabric that ripped off of the bag which Beethoven used its scent to try to sniff out the bag's location. Mason leaves shortly after to find Henry and Beethoven after discovering that they were gone.\n\nMr. Smirch and Kenny decide to advertise with the toy bag but during the commercial they are interrupted by the presence of Henry and Beethoven Smirch flees with the toy bag and is picked up by Kenny shortly after thus, Henry fails to get a visual on Smirch.\n\nMason comes across the stray and frees his foot from the mattress the stray follows Mason and they meet up with Henry and Beethoven. The stray then reveals to Henry that he got a good visual of Smirch. They return to the garage in the Cooper's house. And while sketching out a drawing of Smirch from the stray's description Henry accidentally sets a model of Beethoven's parade float on fire. Mason is blamed for it by Christine who refuses to believe her son that Henry did it. she then grounds Mason forbidding him to leave the house until New Year's.\n\nMason fails to recognize the sketch drawing of Mr. Smirch and Henry reveals to Mason about being a Stable Elf, and explains to Mason about wanting to make toys like his fellow elves but Mason reassures Henry thinking that being a stable elf is better than making toys. That night Mason, Henry, Beethoven and the stray are awoken to see Smirch's TV Ad. They are overjoyed that they know who was in possession of the toy bag.\n\nBecause Mason was forbidden to leave the house Henry, Beethoven and the stray entered the Toy store alone during business hours and Henry tries to convince the patrons that the toys were from Santa's toy bag and that Smirch had stolen them. Smirch kicks Henry out of the store. Henry then distracts smirch and Kenny by singing with a group of Christmas carolers. While Beethoven and the stray steal the bag. This fails as Henry is exposed for singing off-key and he is arrested for trying to steal Santa's toy bag. The stray is taken back to the shelter for biting Smirch forcing Beethoven to return to Mason.\n\nBeethoven then persuades Christine to lick the Dog Candy Cane and insists to her that Mason was telling the truth the whole time. Believing that this was happening, Christine apologizes to Mason explaining that she felt scared about taking care of him by herself after her husband passed away the previous year. They go the police station but learn from the chief that Smirch decided not to press charges on Henry.\n\nMason Beethoven and Christine arrive at the store and learn that Smirch is kidnapping Henry after Henry had revealed to Smirch that the elves made enough toys in the bag for one year. Smirch believes that Henry is a toy-making elf and kidnaps him to receive more income. Smirch stuffs Henry in the toy bag and he and Kenny flee on Motorcycles to the park where the parade's floats are being worked on. Smirch crashes onto the Beethoven float and is trapped in a large plastic Christmas ornament. Smirch is then arrested for toy theft.\n\nMason then helps his mother get the promotion that she was working to achieve by adding a partnership with the ASPCA and invites the dogs from the shelter to ride with Beethoven in the parade. Late that evening Henry thanks Mason for showing him that being a stable elf is something very special. Mason thanks Henry for helping him realize that believing in Santa \"is not a kid thing.\" using the power of the magic berries Beethoven flies Henry back to the north pole with the toy bag in a sleigh. And Mason decides to keep the stray and names him Henry. In the end, Santa makes his deliveries and gives Beethoven a ride home.\n\nBeethoven was voiced by Tom Arnold.\n\nAfter getting fired from a film, Beethoven begins the long journey home with his trainer, Eddie. They become stranded in a small coastal town, where the beloved canine befriends a young boy who is searching for buried treasure. \"Beethoven's Treasure Tail\" was released on October 28, 2014.\n\nIn 1993, was released a game called \"Beethoven: The Ultimate Canine Caper\" based on \"Beethoven's 2nd\" for Super Nintendo\n\nIn 1994, a side-scrolling video game titled simply \"Beethoven\", but based on \"Beethoven's 2nd\", was developed for the Sega Genesis. Though completed, it was cancelled before release.\n\nA line of toys was produced in conjunction with the first two films, and some toys are available on an ongoing basis.\n\nAll films are available on DVD, both individually and as part of packs and collections of two or more films.\n\n"}
{"id": "55261805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55261805", "title": "Belvest", "text": "Belvest\n\nBelvest is an Italian menswear brand founded in Piazzola sul Brenta in 1964.\nIt has 300 employees, and its garment factory is located in Padova, Italy. The brand offers a made-to-measure service.\n\n"}
{"id": "1864778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1864778", "title": "Bengal School of Art", "text": "Bengal School of Art\n\nThe Bengal School of Art commonly referred as Bengal School, was an art movement and a style of Indian painting that originated in Bengal, primarily Kolkata and Shantiniketan, and flourished throughout India during the British Raj in the early 20th century. Also known as 'Indian style of painting' in its early days, it was associated with Indian nationalism (swadeshi) and led by Abanindranath Tagore (1871-1951), but was also promoted and supported by British arts administrators like E. B. Havell, the principal of the Government College of Art, Kolkata from 1896; eventually it led to the development of the modern Indian painting.\nThe Bengal school arose as an avant garde and nationalist movement reacting against the academic art styles previously promoted in India, both by Indian artists such as Raja Ravi Varma and in British art schools. Following the influence of Indian spiritual ideas in the West, the British art teacher Ernest Binfield Havell attempted to reform the teaching methods at the Calcutta School of Art by encouraging students to imitate Mughal miniatures. This caused controversy, leading to a strike by students and complaints from the local press, including from nationalists who considered it to be a retrogressive move. Havell was supported by the artist Abanindranath Tagore, a nephew of the poet Rabindranath Tagore. Tagore painted a number of works influenced by Mughal art, a style that he and Havell believed to be expressive of India's distinct spiritual qualities, as opposed to the \"materialism\" of the West. Tagore's best-known painting, \"Bharat Mata\" (Mother India), depicted a young woman, portrayed with four arms in the manner of Hindu deities, holding objects symbolic of India's national aspirations. Tagore later attempted to develop links with Japanese artists as part of an aspiration to construct a pan-Asianist model of art. Through the paintings of 'Bharat Mata', Abanindranath established the pattern of patriotism. Painters and artists of Bengal school were Nandalal Bose, M.A.R Chughtai, Sunayani Devi (sister of Abanindranath Tagore), Manishi Dey, Mukul Dey, Kalipada Ghoshal, Asit Kumar Haldar, Sudhir Khastgir, Kshitindranath Majumdar, Sughra Rababi, Debi Prasad Roychoudhury, Bireswar Sen, Beohar Rammanohar Sinha, Kiron Sinha,TP Gaganendranath Tagore (Tagore's brother) \nMeharThapar and Sarada Ukil.\n\nThe Bengal school's influence in India declined with the spread of modernist ideas in the 1920s. , there has been a surge in interest in the Bengal school of art among scholars and connoisseurs.\n\nHowever, Bengal continues to produce some of the best artists of modern India. There is a department in the Government College Of Art & Craft that has been training students the traditional style of tempera and wash painting for almost a century now. These students are carrying the legacy of the Bengal School artists, who, initially, were a group of artists, following Abanindranath's style and sharing his aesthetic vision. Among them, Dhirendranath Brahma is the living legend of the Bengal School of Art. He is a master of calligraphy and has innumerable students who are carrying on the tradition of Bengal School of painting. Among the other renowned artists of this style of painting are Ajoy Ghosh, Sankarlal Aich, Amal Chaklader, Narendranath De Sarkar, Sukti Subhra Pradhan & Ratan Acharya. \nSome of the best known artists of present-day Bengal are Jogen Chowdhury, Mrinal Kanti Das, Gopal Sanyal, Ganesh Pyne, Manishi Dey, Shanu Lahiri, Ganesh Haloi Jahar Dasgupta, Samir Aich, Bikash Bhattacharjee, Sudip Roy, Ramananda Bandopadhyay and Devajyoti Ray.\nSanat Chatterjee is one of the last living pioneers of Bengal School of art. He studied under Asit Kumar Haldar for around fifteen years.\n\nR. Siva Kumar, who has been studying the work of the Santiniketan masters and their approach to art since the early 80s, refutes the practice of subsuming Nandalal Bose, Rabindranath Tagore, Ram Kinker Baij and Benode Behari Mukherjee under the Bengal School of Art. According to Siva Kumar, 'This happened because early writers were guided by genealogies of apprenticeship rather than their styles, worldviews, and perspectives on art practice'.\n\nHis ideas on this issue are formulated in the catalogue essay of the exhibition .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57618222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57618222", "title": "Blended mobility", "text": "Blended mobility\n\nBlended mobility is a term used to describe an educational concept that combines physical academic mobility, virtual mobility and blended learning. It aims to promote employability of higher education students. Since 2009 is has evolved from virtual mobility, keeping the international value of academic mobility, but at the same time giving a concrete answer to possible family related, financial, psychological and social barriers of a physical mobility.\nThe virtual mobility part of blended mobility is mostly supported through the use of information and communication technologies (e.g. Skype, Adobe Connect, Slack, Google Hangout, Trello) to stay connected with the teachers and/or students who may be situated at many distant locations. The physical mobility part is typically of short-term duration, ranging from 2 to 14 days. There may exist multiple periods of short-term mobility. Short periods of physical mobility enable participants to focus for a couple of days only on the actual project, which is difficult in daily life in a local environment.\n\nEarly applications of a blended mobility format can be found back in 2009. Through this project an environment was created which encourages the development of students’ soft skills, such as teamwork and communication, in an international setting by means of an innovative instruction paradigm to improve such skills without expensive and extensive curricular changes.\n\nThe blended mobility paradigm may be executed through various formats.\n\nBlended mobility is also seen and recognised by the Commission as a preparation for the long-term physical mobility or as complementing regular study programmes.\n\nIn the Digital Education Action Plan of the European Commission (January 2018) it is stated that blended mobility will be further promoted with new opportunities in Erasmus+ to support both online and face-to-face learning and student exchange in different countries.\n\nBlended mobility is an educational concept that combines virtual mobility through the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) and short-term physical mobility. \n\nThe goal of this methodology is to obtain similar benefits as those gained with physical mobility but with less barriers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34239286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34239286", "title": "BoBoiBoy", "text": "BoBoiBoy\n\nBoBoiBoy is a Malaysian animated series produced by Animonsta Studios, centering on a boy who has elemental-based superpowers and the ability to separate into three. With his friends, Ying, Hannah (Yaya in the original Malay version), Gopal, and Fang, they fight to protect the earth from alien threats who aim to conquer the Earth in the hunt for cocoa beans.\n\nThe series is published in HDTV format and broadcasts on TV3 began on 13 March 2011, on Disney Channel Asia from 11 June 2011 and on NTV7 from 24 May 2014.\n\nBoBoiBoy is the first product of Animonsta Studios Sdn. Bhd., an animation company established by Nizam Razak with three other partners (Safwan Abdul Karim, Anas Abdul Aziz, and Kee Yong Pin). Multimedia Development Corporation (MDeC) content developer incubation facility located in Cyberjaya and has since moved their studio at the Technopreneur Center in the middle of 2012.\n\nThe original concept of the story centres on a coffee-addict alien named Adu Du who has made his way to Earth. A minor change was made later, where instead of coffee, the alien is now in search of cocoa. The change, according to the BoBoiBoy Facebook fan page, was due to the fact that coffee is a bitter-tasting drink, and does not appeal to children.\n\nThe series was released simultaneously in two languages, Malay version and English version for the local and international market, respectively. Both versions fully utilises the different voice actors. In the Malay version, the original voice actor for Upin & Ipin, Nur Fathiah Diaz, was chosen to voice the main character, BoBoiBoy. The series ended after three seasons and was taken up by the sequel, BoBoiBoy Galaxy, on 25 November 2016.\n\nThe first season of BoBoiBoy was aired on Sunday, 13 March 2011 at 7:00 pm. The episode starts when the main character, BoBoiBoy on a trip to his grandfather Tok Aba's home in Pulau Rintis for the school holidays. At the same time, Adu Du, an alien from planet of Ata Ta Tiga heads to Earth, to search for energy resources. He finds out that there is cocoa, a powerful energy source, which had extinct from his planet about 30,000 years ago. Adu Du wanted to conquer all the cocoa for himself, so that he could be a hero for his planet. To make sure his plan succeeded, he sought help from the Power Sphere (Ochobot). However, a series of mishaps occur and BoBoiBoy obtains Ochobot instead. Ochobot then gives some superpowers to BoBoiBoy and his new friends, Ying, Yaya and Gopal.\n\nFor the first season, there are 13 slots with every slot consisting of two episodes which last 11 minutes each. This make total of 26 episodes all together with each episode lasting for 11 minutes. Due to the cartoon's popularity, Animonsta Studios agreed to re-air the final episode with an \"Extended Finale\" on 1 January 2012.\n\nThe second season of BoBoiBoy was aired on Sunday, 27 May 2012 at 7:00pm on TV3. In this season, BoBoiBoy begins a new chapter of his life as he moves to Pulau Rintis to unite with Tok Aba, Gopal, Ying and Yaya. The story in this season mainly centres on BoBoiBoy and his friends' life at Sekolah Rendah Pulau Rintis. BoBoiBoy also encounters a new challenger, Fang at his new school.\n\nFang or Mystery Boy was first introduced in Season 1 on \"Extended Finale\" (Episode 26 with addition of a few minutes of scene on BoBoiBoy leaving Pulau Rintis).\n\nIn Season 2 finale Boboiboy's friends along with Fang fight a super powerful alien named Ejo jo who takes all the power watches except for Fang and Boboiboy and to defeat him Fang uses his full power.\n\nOn 7 June 2013, Animonsta Studios channel in YouTube uploaded a sneak preview of the first episode of the third season featuring the battle between BoBoiBoy and Ejo Jo in his armour, thus confirming the third season to be in progress. On 12 July 2013, Animonsta Studios announced on their Facebook page that the third season of BoBoiBoy will be aired on 11 August 2013 with 13 new episodes making it the longest season to date. But then they postponed it and brought it to 5 January 2014. Season 3 started on 5 January 2014 and continuously aired 5 episodes for 5 weeks. On 23 March 2014, the Animonsta Studio's YouTube channel have announced that the new time slot airing on 6:00 pm from Sunday, 6 April 2014 to Sunday, 18 May 2014 due to the school test and Eid al-Fitr. Season 3 Episode 6 and so on were aired started on 4 December 2014 at new time slot, 5.35pm, Monday-Thursday at TV3 and aired started on 20 November 2014 at new time slot. This is also the first season that new episodes would be uploaded onto YouTube before its first airing on TV. It is also the first season to change the theme song, switching out \"BoBoiBoy Superhero Kita\" with \"Jagalah Bumi\" by Kotak. The last three episodes (Episodes 24-26) will be aired on 28 May, 4 June and 11 June 2016 respectively.\n\nTalking about Season 3 Boboiy defeats Ejo jo and Adu du becomes Boiboy's friend but he tuns evil back again because of his mother. Also in Season 3 Boboiboy gets his new Fire and Water Elemental Powers.\n\nBoBoiBoy Galaxy is a rebranding of BoBoiBoy, airing its first season on 25 November 2016. The settings for the series take place after BoBoiBoy: The Movie. BoBoiBoy Galaxy focuses more on an adventure-based storyline, is more episodic and will have a total of 104 episodes. BoBoiBoy Galaxy is set to be released after on 3 March 2016 in Malaysia and 13 April 2016 in Indonesia.\n\nDue to the reboot/rebranding, Boboiboy is at first limited to his first-tier powers and must master all 7 of them (Lightning, Wind, Earth, Fire, Water, Leaf, Light) before unlocking his second-tier ones. As the series progresses he will also be able to split into more copies of himself (specifically, 5 and 7 respectively, an ability first seen in the Movie).\n\nA film of the series entitled \"BoBoiBoy: The Movie\" is to be shown in cinemas at 3 March 2016 in Malaysia, 18 March 2016 in Singapore and 13 April 2016 in Indonesia. Taking place after the events of Season 3, the movie brings BoBoiBoy and his friends on an adventure on a mysterious island that houses an ancient Power Sphere older than Ochobot with untold powers after Ochobot gets taken by a new group of enemies called the Tengkotak, led by Bora Ra who attempts to seek out an ancient Power Sphere called Klamkabot.\n\nAfter \"BoBoiBoy: The Movie\", Animonsta Studios has the plans to make another two BoBoiBoy films, which Nizam Razak stated that they already had their ideas on the second movie.\n\nAnugerah Karyawan Animasi\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23425810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23425810", "title": "Bolak language", "text": "Bolak language\n\nBolak is a constructed language that was invented by Léon Bollack. The name of the language means both \"blue language\" and \"ingenious creation\" in the language itself.\n\nBollack wrote three books on this language: \"La Langue Bleue Bolak: langue internationale pratique\" (1899), \"Abridged Grammar of the Blue Language\" (1900) and \"Premier vocabulaire de la langue bleue Bolak\" (1902).\n\nBollack caught the attention of H.G. Wells, who wrote in \"A Modern Utopia\":\n\nThe language of Utopia will no doubt be one and indivisible; all mankind will, in the measure of their individual differences in quality, be brought into the same phase, into a common resonance of thought, but the language they will speak will still be a living tongue, an animated system of imperfections, which every individual man will infinitesimally modify. Through the universal freedom of exchange and movement, the developing change in its general spirit will be a world-wide change; that is the quality of its universality. I fancy it will be a coalesced language, a synthesis of many. Such a language as English is a coalesced language; it is a coalescence of Anglo-Saxon and Norman French and Scholar's Latin, welded into one speech more ample and more powerful and beautiful than either. The Utopian tongue might well present a more spacious coalescence, and hold in the frame of such an uninflected or slightly inflected idiom as English already presents, a profuse vocabulary into which have been cast a dozen once separate tongues, superposed and then welded together through bilingual and trilingual compromises. [Footnote: Vide an excellent article, La Langue Française en l'an 2003, par Leon Bollack, in La Revue, 15 Juillet, 1903.] In the past ingenious men have speculated on the inquiry, “Which language will survive?” The question was badly put. I think now that this wedding and survival of several in a common offspring is a far more probable thing.\nDespite the attention of Wells and money invested by Bollack, the language gained no adherents, and Bollack went on to support Ido, according to Otto Jespersen, writing in 1912 in \"The History of our Language\" about a conference that had taken place in 1907:\n\nThe inventors of language systems had been invited to attend either in person or by representative to defend their systems. This offer was availed of by Dr. Nicolas (Spokil), Mr. Spitzer (Parla) and Mr. Bollack (La langue bleue); moreover Dr. Zamenhof got himself represented by Mr. de Beaufront, who had been propagating Esperanto for many years; and almost as representative of Neutral came Mr. Monseur, professor of comparative philology in Brussels: yet his plea had the character less of a positive defence of Neutral than of a zealous and expert insistence on the weaknesses of Esperanto. Of the discussions with those outside the committee two episodes deserve special mention: Dr. Nicolas emphasised as an advantage of his system founded on \"a priori\" principles, that it was constructed in accordance with a firm grasp of the laws of mnemonics and therefore was especially easy to remember. Yet he was almost offended when I wished to begin examining him about his own dictionary, and so it appeared that he could not remember the words which he himself had made. Mr. Bollack in a very elegant discourse presented his Langue bleue for the diffusion of which he had devoted a great deal of money; he ended by declaring that although he wished naturally that his language should be adopted, he would nevertheless accept the verdict of the committee of experts if it went otherwise; this promise he has kept loyally by being now an eminent member of the Ido organization in Paris.\n\nBolak uses a modified Latin alphabet with 19 letters:\n\nA, B, Ч, D, E, F, G, I, K, L, M, N, O, P, R, S, T, U, V.\n\nЧ is taken from Cyrillic and has the sound of English ch. Other letters are pronounced as in French.\n\nBolak is a mixed language, whose grammar is mostly \"a priori\" while the vocabulary is \"a posteriori\". It is also an agglutinative language, much like Esperanto but while Esperanto uses agglutination mainly logically, Bolak uses it mainly emotionally.\nThe Lord's Prayer:\n\nNea per ev seri in sil!\nVea nom eч santigui! Vea regu eч komi!\nVea vil eч makui in sil, so ib gev!\nEv givi nea pan taged ana!\nEv solvi nae fansu so ne solvo aчe re ufanso na!\nEч seri siч!\nThe numbers 1–10:\n\nven, dov, ter, far, kel, gab, чep, lok, nif, dis.\nWhat an immense advantage for mankind, if from people to people we could communicate through the same language.\n\nAk vop sfermed pro spes maned, if om pobl to pobl, ne ei mnoka pfo an am lane.\n\n"}
{"id": "1822919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1822919", "title": "Composition (visual arts)", "text": "Composition (visual arts)\n\nIn the visual arts, composition is the placement or arrangement of visual elements or 'ingredients' in a work of art, as distinct from the subject. It can also be thought of as the organization of the elements of art according to the principles of art.\n\nThe composition of a picture is different from its subject, what is depicted, whether a moment from a story, a person or a place. Many subjects, for example Saint George and the Dragon, are often portrayed in art, but using a great range of compositions even though the two figures are typically the only ones shown. \n\nThe term composition means 'putting together' and can apply to any work of art, from music to writing to photography, that is arranged using conscious thought. In the visual arts, composition is often used interchangeably with various terms such as \"design, form, visual ordering,\" or \"formal structure,\" depending on the context. In graphic design for press and desktop publishing, composition is commonly referred to as page layout.\n\nThe various visual elements, known as \"elements of design\", \"formal elements\", or \"elements of art,\" constitute the vocabulary with which the visual artist composes. These elements in the overall design usually relate to each other and to the whole art work.\n\nThe elements of design are:\nLines are optical phenomena that allow the artist to direct the eye of the viewer. The optical illusion of lines do exist in nature and visual arts elements can be arranged to create this illusion. The viewer unconsciously reads near continuous arrangement of different elements and subjects at varying distances. Such elements can be of dramatic use in the composition of the image. These could be literal lines such as telephone and power cables or rigging on boats. Lines can derive also from the borders of areas of differing color or contrast, or sequences of discrete elements. Movement is also a source of line, and blur can also create a reaction.\n\nSubject lines contribute to both mood and linear perspective, giving the viewer the illusion of depth. Oblique lines convey a sense of movement and angular lines generally convey a sense of dynamism and possibly tension. Lines can also direct attention towards the main subject of picture, or contribute to organization by dividing it into compartments. The artist may exaggerate or create lines perhaps as part of their message to the viewer. Many lines without a clear subject point suggest chaos in the image and may conflict with the mood the artist is trying to evoke.\n\nStraight left lines create different moods and add affection to visual arts. A line's angle and its relationship to the size of the frame influence the mood of the image. Horizontal lines, commonly found in landscape photography, can give the impression of calm, tranquility, and space. An image filled with strong vertical lines tends to have the impression of height and grandeur. Tightly angled convergent lines give a dynamic, lively, and active effect to the image. Strongly angled, almost diagonal lines produce tension in the image. The viewpoint of visual art is very important because every different perspective views different angled lines. This change of perspective elicits a different response to the image. By changing the perspective only by some degrees or some centimetres lines in images can change tremendously and a totally different feeling can be transported. Straight lines are also strongly influenced by tone, color, and repetition in relation to the rest of the image.\n\nCompared to straight lines, curves provide a greater dynamic influence in a picture. They are also generally more aesthetically pleasing, as the viewer associates them with softness. In photography, curved lines can give graduated shadows when paired with soft-directional lighting, which usually results in a very harmonious line structure within the image.\n\nThere are three properties of color. Hue, brightness, and value. Hue is simply the name of a color, (red, yellow, and blue, etc.) Brightness refers to the intensity and strength of the color. The lightness and darkness to a color is the value. Color also has the ability to work within our emotions. Given that, we can use color to create mood. It can also be used as tone, pattern, light, movement, symbol, form, harmony, and contrast. \n\nTexture refers to how an object feels or how it looks like it may feel if it were touched. There are two ways we experience texture, physically and optically. Different techniques can be used to create physical texture, which allows qualities of visual art to be seen and felt. This can include surfaces such as metal, sand, and wood. Optical texture is when the illusion of physical texture is created. Photography, paintings, and drawings use visual texture to create a more realistic appearance. \n\nLightness and darkness is what creates value in visual art. Value deals with how light reflects off of objects and how we see it. The more light, the higher the value. White is the highest or lightest value while black is the lowest or darkest value. Colors also have value, for example, yellow has a high value while blue has a low value. This is a very important element of design, especially in painting and drawing, to be able to create the illusion of light with contrast. Contrast is needed to understand two-dimensional artwork. \n\nThe term form can mean different things in visual art. Form suggests a three-dimensional object in space. It is also described as the physical nature of the artwork, such as sculptures. It can also be looked at as art form, which can be expressed through fine art. A form encloses volume, has length, width, and height, unlike a shape, which is only two-dimensional. Forms that are mathematical, a sphere, pyramid, cube, cylinder, and cone, are known as geometric forms. Organic forms are typically irregular and asymmetrical. This form can be found in nature, such as flowers, rocks, trees, etc., but can also be seen in architecture. \n\nForms in drawing and painting convey the illusion of three-dimensional form through lighting, shadows, value, and tone. The more contrast in value, the more pronounced the three-dimensional form is. Forms with little value appear flatter than those with greater variation and contrast.\n\nSpace is the area around, above, and within an object. Photographers can capture space, architects build space, and painters create space. This element is found in each of the visual arts. It can be positive or negative, open or closed, shallow or deep, and two-dimensional or three-dimensional. In drawing or painting, space is not actually there, but the illusion of it is. Positive space is the subject of the piece. The empty spaces around, above, and within, is negative space. \n\nThe artist determines what the center of interest (focus in photography) of the art work will be, and composes the elements accordingly. The gaze of the viewer will then tend to linger over these points of interest, elements are arranged with consideration of several factors (known variously as the \"principles of organization, principles of art,\" or \"principles of design\") into a harmonious whole which works together to produce the desired statement – a phenomenon commonly referred to as unity. Such factors in composition should not be confused with the elements of art (or elements of design) themselves. For example, shape is an \"element\"; the usage of shape is characterized by various \"principles.\"\n\nSome principles of organization affecting the composition of a picture are:\n\nThe position of the viewer can strongly influence the aesthetics of an image, even if the subject is entirely imaginary and viewed \"within the mind's eye\". Not only does it influence the elements within the picture, but it also influences the viewer's interpretation of the subject.\n\nFor example, if a boy is photographed from above, perhaps from the eye level of an adult, he is diminished in stature. A photograph taken at the child's level would treat him as an equal, and one taken from below could result in an impression of dominance. Therefore, the photographer is choosing the viewer's positioning.\n\nA subject can be rendered more dramatic when it fills the frame. There exists a tendency to perceive things as larger than they actually are, and filling the frame full fills this psychological mechanism. This can be used to eliminate distractions from the background.\n\nIn photography, altering the position of the camera can change the image so that the subject has fewer or more distractions with which to compete. This may be achieved by getting closer, moving laterally, tilting, panning, or moving the camera vertically.\n\nThere are numerous approaches or \"compositional techniques\" to achieve a sense of unity within an artwork, depending on the goals of the artist. For example, a work of art is said to be aesthetically pleasing to the eye if the elements within the work are arranged in a balanced compositional way. However, there are artists such as Salvador Dalí who aim to disrupt traditional composition and challenge the viewer to rethink balance and design elements within art works.\n\nConventional composition can be achieved with a number of techniques:\n\nThe rule of thirds is a composition guide that states that arranging the important features of an image on or near the horizontal and vertical lines that would divide the image into thirds horizontally and vertically is visually pleasing. The objective is to stop the subject(s) and areas of interest (such as the horizon) from bisecting the image, by placing them near one of the lines that would divide the image into three equal columns and rows, ideally near the intersection of those lines.\n\nThe rule of thirds is thought to be a simplification of the golden ratio. The golden ratio is thought to have been used by artists throughout history as a composition guide, but there is little evidence to support this claim.\n\nThe \"rule of odds\" suggests that an odd number of subjects in an image is more interesting than an even number. Thus if you have more than one subject in your picture, the suggestion is to choose an arrangement with at least three subjects. An even number of subjects produces symmetries in the image, which can appear less natural for a naturalistic, informal composition.\n\nAn image of a person surrounded/framed by two other persons, for instance, where the person in the center is the object of interest in that image/artwork, is more likely to be perceived as friendly and comforting by the viewer, than an image of a single person with no significant surroundings.\n\nThe rule of space applies to artwork (photography, advertising, illustration) picturing object(s) to which the artist wants to apply the illusion of movement, or which is supposed to create a contextual bubble in the viewer's mind.\n\nThis can be achieved, for instance, by leaving white space in the direction the eyes of a portrayed person are looking, or, when picturing a runner, adding white space in front of him rather than behind him to indicate movement.\n\nImages with clutter can distract from the main elements within the picture and make it difficult to identify the subject. By decreasing the extraneous content, the viewer is more likely to focus on the primary objects. Clutter can also be reduced through the use of lighting, as the brighter areas of the image tend to draw the eye, as do lines, squares and colour. In painting, the artist may use less detailed and defined brushwork towards the edges of the picture.Removing the elements to the focus of the object, taking only the needed components.\n\nIn photography, and also (via software simulation of real lens limitations) in 3D graphics, one approach to achieving simplification is to use a wide aperture when shooting to limit the depth of field. When used properly in the right setting, this technique can place everything that is not the subject of the photograph out of focus.\n\nA similar approach, given the right equipment, is to take advantage of the Scheimpflug principle to change the plane of focus.\n\nRelated to the rule of odds is the observation that triangles are an aesthetically pleasing implied shape within an image. In a canonically attractive face, the mouth and eyes fall within the corners of the area of an equilateral triangle. Paul Cézanne successfully used triangles in his compositions of still lifes. A triangular format creates a sense of stability and strength.\n\nIt is generally thought to be more pleasing to the viewer if the image encourages the eye to move around the image, rather than immediately fixating on a single place or no place in particular. Artists will often strive to avoid creating compositions that feel \"static\" or \"flat\" by incorporating movement into the image. In image A the 2 mountains are equally sized and positioned beside each other creating a very static and uninteresting image. In image B the mountains are differently sized and one is placed closer to the horizon, guiding the eye to move from one mountain to the other creating a more interesting and pleasing image. This also feels more natural because in nature objects are rarely the same size and evenly spaced. \n\nThese principles \"can\" be means of a good composition yet they \"cannot\" be applied separately but should act together to form a good composition.\n\nThese paintings all show the same subject, the Raising of Lazarus, and essentially the same figures, but have very different compositions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46246647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46246647", "title": "De Verborum Significatione", "text": "De Verborum Significatione\n\nDe Verborum Significatione, fully Twenty Books on the Meaning of Words () and also known as De Verborum Signficatu and The Lexicon of Festus, is an epitome compiled, edited, and annotated by Sextus Pompeius Festus from the encyclopedic works of Verrius Flaccus. Festus's epitome is typically dated to the 2nd century, but the work only survives in a partial 11th-century manuscript and copies of its own separate epitome.\n\nVerrius Flaccus was a prominent Roman grammarian known for his writings on the Latin language and for tutoring the grandsons of Caesar Augustus during his reign. He is best known for \"De verborum significatu\", the name which Festus later adopted for his epitome, the first major alphabetical Latin dictionary. The 40-volume lexicon is regarded as among the most important such works of Classical Antiquity, though all but a few fragments of the original have been lost, perhaps in part due to its impractical size.\n\nSextus Pompeius Festus, also a grammarian, likely flourished in the later 2nd century and is thought to have come from Narbo in Gaul, though few details are known about his life. Festus wrote his epitome of Flaccus's works during a time in the history of the Roman Empire when greater priority was placed on defense after a long period of expansion. There was an anxious effort by many scholars to record their history and culture as means of preservation. Though another of Festus's books is mentioned in \"De Verborum Significatione\", none of his other works have survived.\n\nFestus's work originally contained 20 volumes. The only surviving copy is the \"Codex Farnesianus\", an 11th-century copy in poor condition, missing the first half of its alphabetized entries and suffering fire damage. Much of what we know about it comes a summary of the full original, abridged in the 8th century by Paul the Deacon (Paulus Diaconus) as a contribution to the library of Charlemagne. As Festus reduced Flaccus from 40 to 20 volumes, so did Paul condense Festus by roughly half, excising entries he considered unnecessary or redundant, modifying parts of the text he thought unclear or obscure, and stripping away details like citations.\nThe entries in Festus's epitome are organized semi-alphabetically, grouped according to first but not following letters, and with some exceptions according to particular themes, arguments, or sources. Festus altered some of Flaccus's text and inserted some critical remarks of his own. He updated the language, omitting Latin words that had fallen out of use, and documented his modifications in the now lost separate work, Priscorum verborum cum exemplis.\n\nThough it is a summary, Festus preserves a great deal of Flaccus's original work, including etymologies and definitions and the rich historical, religious, political, and cultural information the original \"De Verborum Significatione\" is known for.\n\nIn an 1880 essay about Flaccus, classical scholar Henry Nettleship criticized Festus's work as \"an affair of scissors and paste, in which conceit and incompetence are perhaps equally blended\". Other scholars, like Alessandro Moscadi, suggest understanding it as instead a work of independent scholarship.\n\nWhen a copy of Paul's version was discovered by scholars at the Abbey of St. Gall in 1416, during the Italian Renaissance, it attracted a surge of renewed interest and study. The Italian humanists, who were enthusiastically seeking out and studying ancient Latin texts, made a number of significant contributions to the work, and several copies from the time still exist today.\n\n\"De Verborum Significatione\" is a valuable resource for scholars studying language use, culture, religion, social life, and the broader history of Ancient Rome. It also provides insight into other Romans and their works which used, were used by, influenced, or were influenced by Flaccus's work. For example, Flaccus utilized Marcus Terentius Varro's lost \"Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum\" (47 BCE) while Pliny the Elder drew a great deal from Flaccus for his highly influential \"Naturalis Historia\" (c. 77 CE). Among the other authors Festus cites are Lucius Accius, Cornificius, Sulpicius Rufus, Gaius Ateius Capito, and Ennius.\n\nFestus included many quotations and citations from authors for whom it serves as the only record of their work. For others, such as Plautus, whose work would otherwise be known only through copies and quotations made much later, Festus provides verification or highlights the ways in which it had been altered.\n\nThe Festus Lexicon project at University College London is collating the fragments that remain of Festus's work and republishing them with translations. The project's aims are to provide public access to the work and to encourage study of both the work itself and the subjects it covers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7606223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7606223", "title": "Dead Christ (Palmezzano)", "text": "Dead Christ (Palmezzano)\n\nThe Dead Christ Held by Two Angels is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Marco Palmezzano, finished in 1510. It is housed in the Musée du Louvre of Paris, France.\n\nThe centre of the scene is occupied by the dead figure of Christ, portrayed with great attention to anatomical details, but also with evident religious piety; the brightness of his body is further enhanced by the dark stone, resembling a black cave, depicted in the background. This contrast can also have the allegorical meaning of Jesus leaving sin and death behind his shoulders. Jesus assumes in this way the evangelic role of proclamation of the end of the dark era of humanity, as also remembered by the presence of the two angels.\n\nThe work is influenced by those of Giovanni Bellini, which Palmezzano saw in his sojourn in Venice in 1489–1495.\n\n"}
{"id": "8217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8217", "title": "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen", "text": "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\n\nThe Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen (), set by France's National Constituent Assembly in 1789, is a human civil rights document from the French Revolution.\n\nThe Declaration was drafted by the Abbé Sieyès and the Marquis de Lafayette, in consultation with Thomas Jefferson. Influenced by the doctrine of \"natural right\", the rights of man are held to be universal: valid at all times and in every place, pertaining to human nature itself. It became the basis for a nation of free individuals protected equally by the law. It is included in the beginning of the constitutions of both the Fourth French Republic (1946) and Fifth Republic (1958) and is still current. Inspired by the Enlightenment philosophers, the Declaration was a core statement of the values of the French Revolution and had a major impact on the development of freedom and democracy in Europe and worldwide.\n\nThe Declaration, together with Magna Carta, the English Bill of Rights, the United States Declaration of Independence and the United States Bill of Rights, inspired in large part the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nThe content of the document emerged largely from the ideals of the Enlightenment.\nThe key drafts were prepared by Lafayette, working at times with his close friend Thomas Jefferson. In August 1789, Honoré Mirabeau played a central role in conceptualizing and drafting the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen.\n\nThe last article of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen was adopted on the 26 of August 1789 by the National Constituent Assembly, during the period of the French Revolution, as the first step toward writing a constitution for France. Inspired by the Enlightenment, the original version of the Declaration was discussed by the representatives on the basis of a 24 article draft proposed by , led by . The draft was later modified during the debates. A second and lengthier declaration, known as the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen of 1793, was written in 1793 but never formally adopted.\n\nThe concepts in the Declaration come from the philosophical and political duties of the Enlightenment, such as individualism, the social contract as theorized by the Genevan philosopher Rousseau, and the separation of powers espoused by the Baron de Montesquieu. As can be seen in the texts, the French declaration was heavily influenced by the political philosophy of the Enlightenment and principles of human rights as was the U.S. Declaration of Independence which preceded it (4 July 1776).\n\nAccording to a legal textbook published in 2007, the declaration is in the spirit of \"secular natural law\", which does not base itself on religious doctrine or authority, in contrast with traditional natural law theory, which does.\n\nThe declaration defines a single set of individual and collective rights for all men. Influenced by the doctrine of natural rights, these rights are held to be universal and valid in all times and places. For example, \"Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions may be founded only upon the general good.\" They have certain natural rights to property, to liberty, and to life. According to this theory, the role of government is to recognize and secure these rights. Furthermore, government should be carried on by elected representatives.\n\nAt the time of writing, the rights contained in the declaration were only awarded to men. Furthermore, the declaration was a statement of vision rather than reality. The declaration was not deeply rooted in either the practice of the West or even France at the time. The declaration emerged in the late 18th century out of war and revolution. It encountered opposition as democracy and individual rights were frequently regarded as synonymous with anarchy and subversion. The declaration embodies ideals and aspirations towards which France pledged to struggle in the future.\n\nThe Declaration is introduced by a preamble describing the fundamental characteristics of the rights which are qualified as being \"natural, unalienable and sacred\" and consisting of \"simple and incontestable principles\" on which citizens could base their demands. In the second article, \"the natural and imprescriptible rights of man\" are defined as \"liberty, property, security and resistance to oppression\". It called for the destruction of aristocratic privileges by proclaiming an end to feudalism and to exemptions from taxation, freedom and equal rights for all \"Men\", and access to public office based on talent. The monarchy was restricted, and all citizens were to have the right to take part in the legislative process. Freedom of speech and press were declared, and arbitrary arrests outlawed.\n\nThe Declaration also asserted the principles of popular sovereignty, in contrast to the divine right of kings that characterized the French monarchy, and social equality among citizens, \"All the citizens, being equal in the eyes of the law, are equally admissible to all public dignities, places, and employments, according to their capacity and without distinction other than that of their virtues and of their talents,\" eliminating the special rights of the nobility and clergy.\n\nArticle I – Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions can be founded only on the common good.\n\nArticle II – The goal of any political association is the conservation of the natural and imprescriptible rights of man. These rights are liberty, property, safety and resistance against oppression.\n\nArticle III – The principle of any sovereignty resides essentially in the Nation. No body, no individual can exert authority which does not emanate expressly from it.\n\nArticle IV – Liberty consists of doing anything which does not harm others: thus, the exercise of the natural rights of each man has only those borders which assure other members of the society the fruition of these same rights. These borders can be determined only by the law.\n\nArticle V – The law has the right to forbid only actions harmful to society. Anything which is not forbidden by the law cannot be impeded, and no one can be constrained to do what it does not order.\n\nArticle VI – The law is the expression of the general will. All the citizens have the right of contributing personally or through their representatives to its formation. It must be the same for all, either that it protects, or that it punishes. All the citizens, being equal in its eyes, are equally admissible to all public dignities, places, and employments, according to their capacity and without distinction other than that of their virtues and of their talents.\n\nArticle VII – No man can be accused, arrested nor detained but in the cases determined by the law, and according to the forms which it has prescribed. Those who solicit, dispatch, carry out or cause to be carried out arbitrary orders, must be punished; but any citizen called or seized under the terms of the law must obey at once; he renders himself culpable by resistance.\n\nArticle VIII – The law should establish only penalties that are strictly and evidently necessary, and no one can be punished but under a law established and promulgated before the offense and legally applied.\n\nArticle IX – Any man being presumed innocent until he is declared culpable if it is judged indispensable to arrest him, any rigor which would not be necessary for the securing of his person must be severely reprimanded by the law.\n\nArticle X – No one may be disturbed for his opinions, even religious ones, provided that their manifestation does not trouble the public order established by the law.\n\nArticle XI – The free communication of thoughts and of opinions is one of the most precious rights of man: any citizen thus may speak, write, print freely, except to respond to the abuse of this liberty, in the cases determined by the law.\n\nArticle XII – The guarantee of the rights of man and of the citizen necessitates a public force: this force is thus instituted for the advantage of all and not for the particular utility of those in whom it is trusted.\n\nArticle XIII – For the maintenance of the public force and for the expenditures of administration, a common contribution is indispensable; it must be equally distributed to all the citizens, according to their ability to pay.\n\nArticle XIV – Each citizen has the right to ascertain, by himself or through his representatives, the need for a public tax, to consent to it freely, to know the uses to which it is put, and of determining the proportion, basis, collection, and duration.\n\nArticle XV – The society has the right of requesting an account from any public agent of its administration.\n\nArticle XVI – Any society in which the guarantee of rights is not assured, nor the separation of powers determined, has no Constitution.\n\nArticle XVII – Property being an inviolable and sacred right, no one can be deprived of private usage, if it is not when the public necessity, legally noted, evidently requires it, and under the condition of a just and prior indemnity.\n\nWhile the French Revolution provided rights to a larger portion of the population, there remained a distinction between those who obtained the political rights in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen and those who did not. Those who were deemed to hold these political rights were called active citizens. Active citizenship was granted to men who were French, at least 25 years old, paid taxes equal to three days work, and could not be defined as servants (Thouret). This meant that at the time of the Declaration only male property owners held these rights. The deputies in the National Assembly believed that only those who held tangible interests in the nation could make informed political decisions. This distinction directly affects articles 6, 12, 14, and 15 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen as each of these rights is related to the right to vote and to participate actively in the government. With the decree of 29 October 1789, the term active citizen became embedded in French politics.\n\nThe concept of passive citizens was created to encompass those populations that had been excluded from political rights in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen. Because of the requirements set down for active citizens, the vote was granted to approximately 4.3 million Frenchmen out of a population of around 29 million. These omitted groups included women, slaves, children, and foreigners. As these measures were voted upon by the General Assembly, they limited the rights of certain groups of citizens while implementing the democratic process of the new French Republic (1792–1804). This legislation, passed in 1789, was amended by the creators of the Constitution of the Year III in order to eliminate the label of active citizen. The power to vote was then, however, to be granted solely to substantial property owners.\n\nTensions arose between active and passive citizens throughout the Revolution. This happened when passive citizens started to call for more rights, or when they openly refused to listen to the ideals set forth by active citizens. This cartoon clearly demonstrates the difference that existed between the active and passive citizens along with the tensions associated with such differences. In the cartoon, a passive citizen is holding a spade and a wealthy landowning active citizen is ordering the passive citizens to go to work. The act appears condescending to the passive citizen and it revisits the reasons why the French Revolution began in the first place.\n\nWomen, in particular, were strong passive citizens who played a significant role in the Revolution. Olympe de Gouges penned her Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen in 1791 and drew attention to the need for gender equality. By supporting the ideals of the French Revolution and wishing to expand them to women, she represented herself as a revolutionary citizen. Madame Roland also established herself as an influential figure throughout the Revolution. She saw women of the French Revolution as holding three roles; \"inciting revolutionary action, formulating policy, and informing others of revolutionary events.\" By working with men, as opposed to working separate from men, she may have been able to further the fight of revolutionary women. As players in the French Revolution, women occupied a significant role in the civic sphere by forming social movements and participating in popular clubs, allowing them societal influence, despite their lack of direct political influence.\n\nThe Declaration recognized many rights as belonging to citizens (who could only be male). This was despite the fact that after The March on Versailles on 5 October 1789, women presented the Women's Petition to the National Assembly in which they proposed a decree giving women equal rights. In 1790, Nicolas de Condorcet and Etta Palm d'Aelders unsuccessfully called on the National Assembly to extend civil and political rights to women. Condorcet declared that \"he who votes against the right of another, whatever the religion, color, or sex of that other, has henceforth abjured his own\". The French Revolution did not lead to a recognition of women's rights and this prompted Olympe de Gouges to publish the Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen in September 1791.\n\nThe Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen is modeled on the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and is ironic in formulation and exposes the failure of the French Revolution, which had been devoted to equality. It states that:\n\nThis revolution will only take effect when all women become fully aware of their deplorable condition, and of the rights, they have lost in society.\nThe Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen follows the seventeen articles of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen point for point and has been described by Camille Naish as \"almost a parody... of the original document\". The first article of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen proclaims that \"Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions may be based only on common utility.\" The first article of Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen replied: \"Woman is born free and remains equal to man in rights. Social distinctions may only be based on common utility\".\n\nDe Gouges also draws attention to the fact that under French law women were fully punishable, yet denied equal rights, declaring \"Women have the right to mount the scaffold, they must also have the right to mount the speaker's rostrum\".\n\nThe declaration did not revoke the institution of slavery, as lobbied for by Jacques-Pierre Brissot's \"Les Amis des Noirs\" and defended by the group of colonial planters called the Club Massiac because they met at the Hôtel Massiac. Despite the lack of explicit mention of slavery in the Declaration, slave uprisings in Saint-Domingue in the Haitian Revolution were inspired by it, as discussed in C. L. R. James' history of the Haitian Revolution, \"The Black Jacobins\".\n\nDeplorable conditions for the thousands of slaves in Saint-Domingue, the most profitable slave colony in the world, led to the uprisings which would be known as the first successful slave revolt in the New World. Free persons of color were part of the first wave of revolt, but later former slaves took control. In 1794 the Convention dominated by the Jacobins abolished slavery, including in the colonies of Saint-Domingue and Guadeloupe. However, Napoleon reinstated it in 1802 and attempted to regain control of Saint-Domingue by sending in thousands of troops. After suffering the losses of two-thirds of the men, many to yellow fever, the French withdrew from Saint-Domingue in 1803. Napoleon gave up on North America and agreed to the Louisiana Purchase by the United States. In 1804, the leaders of Saint-Domingue declared it as an independent state, the Republic of Haiti, the second republic of the New World.\n\nThe Declaration has also influenced and inspired rights-based liberal democracy throughout the world. It was translated as soon as 1793–1794 by Colombian Antonio Nariño, who published it despite the Inquisition. He was sentenced to 10 years in prison for doing so. In 2003, the document was listed on UNESCO's Memory of the World register.\n\nAccording to the preamble of the Constitution of the French Fifth Republic (adopted on 4 October 1958, and the current constitution), the principles set forth in the Declaration have constitutional value. Many laws and regulations have been canceled because they did not comply with those principles as interpreted by the Conseil Constitutionnel (\"Constitutional Council of France\") or by the \"Conseil d'État\" (\"Council of State\").\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20492740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20492740", "title": "Environments (album series)", "text": "Environments (album series)\n\nEnvironments is a series of LPs, cassettes, 8-Track cartridges and CDs created by producer and sound recordist Irv Teibel (1938–2010) for Syntonic Research Inc. between 1969 and 1979. The series consists of recordings of natural sounds such as a seashore with crashing waves or a thunderstorm with falling rain, without musical accompaniment. The series helped ignite a worldwide interest in field recordings which resulted in many imitations being released throughout the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s both with, and without, music (i.e.: Moods, Solitudes, Echoes of Nature, Nature Recordings, Gentle Persuasion: The Sounds of Nature, The Sounds of Nature (by Joe Baker), Magic Moods, etc.).\n\nThe original series, distributed by Atlantic Records, comprised 11 long-playing records with a different environment on each side, for 22 total \"Environments\".\n\nThe initial recording in the series goes back to 1968. Working under the direction of Tony Conrad and Beverly Grant Conrad, Teibel recorded ocean waves at Coney Island for use in their feature film \"Coming Attractions\" (1970). Teibel immediately sensed the marketability of this material, noting its effect on improving concentration, enhancing sleep and sex, and imparting a sense of calm to the listener. Conrad, who wished to credit Walter De Maria for his prior usage of ocean recordings, was not willing to become a partner in the Syntonic Research enterprise as envisioned by Teibel, so Teibel parted ways with the \"Coming Attractions\" project. Subsequently, Teibel himself felt unsatisfied with his results — though his Uher stereo reel-to-reel tape recorder had faithfully captured the sounds of the surf, he felt that they were less convincing on playback. A friend of Teibel's, Louis Gerstman, had access to an IBM 360 computer, and he and Teibel played around with processing the recordings until eventually the two of them hit upon a series of manipulations (basically some rolling filtering and overdubbing) which sounded 'more real than real.'\nFor the second side of the LP, Teibel recorded an enclosure of birds at the Bronx Zoo aviary. Later soundscapes were much more naturalistic.\n\nAlone among the \"Environments\" series, \"Tintinnabulation\" is not natural sounds at all but a series of computer-generated bell sounds playable at any speed from 16 to 78  rpm. The CD reissue opted for the 16 rpm speed.\nThe quintessential \"field recording\" with owls, crows, doves, insects, dogs and geese recorded early one morning in June 1969.\n\nThe sounds of a spontaneous gathering in Central Park, April 6, 1969 with strolling musicians, dancers, anti-war protesters, and fragments of conversations. This recording presents the unmistakable ambiance of a place and time in culture now gone. Though many of the \"Environments\" recordings have been imitated, this one stands alone as a totally unique recording.\nA warm summer night (recorded August 1970) deep in the backwoods of Eastern Pennsylvania, surrounded by insects and the occasional distant hound.\n\nOne of the most-imitated nature recordings, with thunder, lightning and a torrential downpour. This one was recorded from a balcony in the city, unlike \"Environments 11\" which was recorded outdoors in the country.\nThis recording revealed a paradoxical effect, where low-level high-frequency sounds could make a room seem quieter than when the recording was not playing.\n\nNote: Announced inside \"Environments 4\" but never released:\n\"Children at Play/Cocktail Party\" (was to be \"Environments 9\") and\n\"Spanish Train/Cable Car (S.F.)\" (was to be \"Environments 10\").\n\nA stethoscope heartbeat recording which can be used to calm infants, aid meditation or enhance lovemaking.\nThe soft rush of wind rustling the leaves of a grove in late autumn.\n\nAccessible only by airboat, Georgia's verdant wetlands are home to thousands of species both large and small, including growling alligators. Both recordings were taken at the same location, but ten hours apart.\n\nA blended chorus of male and female singers intoning an \"Om\" chant.\nThe cicadas, grasshoppers and katydids of a Vermont field provide a blanket of pulsating sound, subtly enhanced by further bug sounds from an EML synthesizer. \n\nCreaking boards, straining lines, and a taut canvas recorded aboard a 42-foot sloop under full sail.\nA small meandering stream near Stockbridge, Massachusetts, with insects, birds and the sound of water flowing over rocks. Another oft-imitated soundscape in the series.\n\nSlower and calmer than the Atlantic recordings on \"Environments 1\", with seagulls.\nGently lapping waves on a white sand beach.\n\nSongbirds recorded in the Sussex countryside, near the Long Man of Wilmington chalk drawing.\nThe sound of a vast sea of insects, primarily cicadas.\n\nHowling wind and banging shutters in a ski chateau—a recording which seemingly lowers the temperature of any room.\nA quiet afternoon of insects and birds gradually gives way to distant thunder, approaching rain squalls, and then a full-on rainstorm.\n\nThe cassettes, marketed by Syntonic Research, consist of two half-hour sides with the same program on each side (except #14). These are the same recordings as on the LP series.\n\nThe compact discs, released by Atlantic Records in 1987, provide 60 minutes of material.\n\niOS app featuring all 22 released \"Environments\" albums. First released by The Numero Group and Syntonic Research in early February 2018.\n"}
{"id": "3613631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3613631", "title": "Fashion cigarettes", "text": "Fashion cigarettes\n\nHistorically considered a masculine habit, the feminization of smoking occurred in tandem with the advent of fashion brands or premium brands of cigarettes specifically marketed toward women. Most often this is focused on young fashion-conscious professional ladies who are the target demographic for these brands, which are differentiated by slimness and added length over traditional brands of cigarettes.\n\nThese brands include decorative ones like Eve, marketed strictly toward women like Virginia Slims, or as evening-out styles like Sobranie Cocktail or Sobranie Black Russian. Many fashion houses have lent their name (through a licensing agreement) to cigarettes; Yves Saint Laurent is probably the most successful of these (even though he admitted in a 1968 interview he smokes, but not his namesake brand, as he does \"not like the flavour\"), though many other brands have been marketed, from time to time, in select international markets: Givenchy, Versace, Pierre Cardin, Christian Lacroix and Cartier (a jewelry house).\n\nIn the 1980s and early 1990s, manufacturers created longer, 164 millimeter versions of several ladies' cigarettes. However, finding only a small niche market, the machines that produced them have since been dismantled. \n\nWith the anti-smoking movement in the United States, cigarette manufacturers have turned to Asia, where there is a distinct market for female oriented brands, and to the \"nouveau riche\" in Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "26073072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26073072", "title": "Fundred Dollar Bill Project", "text": "Fundred Dollar Bill Project\n\nThe Fundred Dollar Bill Project is an art project implemented by Mel Chin, and is aimed to connect and represent the voices of children across the United States, with the end goal to propose a funding solution for the lead contamination in the soil of New Orleans, Louisiana. People in the United States and around the globe are invited to draw their own 100 dollar bills and send to collection centers, or schools, for safekeeping. During a nationwide road-trip in an armored truck, the Fundred Dollar Bills will be collected.\n\nThe completed Fundred Dollar Bills will be presented to Congress for an even exchange of U.S. dollars to help the remediation of lead in the soil of New Orleans. This funding supports Operation Paydirt, which is the program that, once implemented, will make the lead content in the soil safe for inhabitants of New Orleans and cities affected by lead poisoning-across the United States.\n\nSo far nearly half a million people have created and sent in their unique Fundreds. \n\nArmored Truck Tour\n\nThroughout 2010, students at hundreds of schools across the country created Fundred Dollar Bills that were picked up in a specially designed armored truck. \nAs students and educators handed their Fundreds over to truck guards for safekeeping, schools held events that raised awareness of the gravity and persistence of the lead in our environment. \n\nThese events gave local elected officials and community organizations a chance to show their support for lead cleanup while giving local press brought the issue to larger audiences.\n\nAt every stop the armored truck tour connected the national campaign for lead awareness. Each event around the country not only provided public and impassioned demonstrations against lead poisoning, but brought people together to make connections around this public health health issue.\n\nGrand Rapids\n\nIn the fall of 2014, the ArtPrize competition in Grand Rapids, Michigan featuring the Fundred Dollar Bill Project, offered an opportunity to raise visibility of local lead issues and invite participation from the tends of thousands of expected visitors. \n\nVisitors to the exhibit sat at bank teller tables and drew their unique Fundreds. Once drawn, their Fundreds were added to hundreds of others on a wall in the exhibit, making their artful demonstrations part of the exhibit for its duration. In addition to creating a public display of action-oriented art, the Grand Rapids initiative brought together local public health specialists, educators, and scientists to talk about the challenges and solutions to lead poisoning in Grand Rapids.\n\nArt Academy in Cincinnati\n\nIn 2015, the Art Academy of Cincinnati partnered with the Fundred Dollar Bill Project and the Cincinnati Health Department Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program to create a course that used art and design to address and impact issues of lead contamination in Cincinnati. \n\nWith the Fundred Dollar Bill Project as a common starting point and inspiration, students launched group projects to increase awareness of childhood lead poisoning and our ability to put an end to it. Students exhibited their projects at a publicly accessible end of semester block party. Students explored lead poisoning through dance performance and graphic design and created a learning-through-play area. The Health Department shared information about lead, and a public Fundred drawing table provided opportunity for attendees to sit together for conversation and to creatively put their values in action.\n\nInitiatives\n\nFundred Reserve Open Lab at H-Space, located in DC, is a space to expand the Fundred program by continuing to amplify personal stories, having fact based dialogue about problems in DC, and engaging more people to take purposeful action. \n\nOpen Lab continues the presence after the 2017 Fundred Reserve exhibition at The Corcoran. Open Lab programming runs from October through April 2018, with space provided by Hamiltonian Artists, and support from The Kresge Foundation through our partnership with MIT CoLab. \n\nAs an extension of Mel Chin’s multi-venue exhibition, All Over the Place (April 8 - September 5, 2018), the Fundred Project is on view at the Queens Museum as part of the exhibition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1541759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1541759", "title": "Galant music", "text": "Galant music\n\nIn music, galant refers to the style which was fashionable from the 1720s to the 1770s. This movement featured a return to simplicity and immediacy of appeal after the complexity of the late Baroque era. This meant simpler, more song-like melodies, decreased use of polyphony, short, periodic phrases, a reduced harmonic vocabulary emphasizing tonic and dominant, and a clear distinction between soloist and accompaniment. C. P. E. Bach and Daniel Gottlob Türk, who were among the most significant theorists of the late 18th century, contrasted the galant with the \"learned\" or \"strict\" styles (; ). The German \"empfindsamer Stil\", which seeks to express personal emotions and sensitivity, can be seen either as a closely related North-German dialect of the international galant style (; ; ; ), or as \ncontrasted with it, as between the music of Carl Philipp Emmanuel Bach, a founder of both styles, and that of Johann Christian Bach, who carried the galant style further and was closer to classical.\n\nThis musical style was part of the wider galant movement in art at the time.\n\nThe word \"galant\" derives from French, where it was in use from at least the 16th century. In the early 18th century, a \"Galant Homme\" described a person of fashion; elegant, cultured and virtuous. The German theorist Johann Mattheson appears to have been fond of the term. It features in the title of his first publication of 1713, \"Das neu-eröffnete \"Orchestre\", oder \"Universelle\" und gründliche Anleitung wie ein \"Galant Homme\" einen vollkommenen Begriff von der Hoheit und Würde der edlen \"Music\" erlangen\". (Instead of the Gothic type rendered here in italics, Mattheson used Roman to emphasize the many non-German expressions (; )). Mattheson was apparently the first to refer to a \"galant style\" in music, in his \"Das forschende Orchestre\" of 1721. He recognized a lighter, modern style, \"einem galanten Stylo\" and named among its leading practitioners Giovanni Bononcini, Antonio Caldara, Georg Philipp Telemann, Alessandro Scarlatti, Antonio Vivaldi and George Frideric Handel . All were composing Italian \"opera seria\", a voice-driven musical style, and opera remained the central form of galant music. The new music was not as essentially a court music as it was a city music: the cities emphasized by Daniel Heartz, a recent historian of the style, were first of all Naples, then Venice, Dresden, Berlin, Stuttgart and Mannheim, and Paris. Many galant composers spent their careers in less central cities, ones that may be considered consumers rather than producers of the \"style galant\": Johann Christian Bach and Carl Friedrich Abel in London, Giovanni Paisiello in St Petersburg, Georg Philipp Telemann in Hamburg, and Luigi Boccherini in Madrid.\n\nThe rejection of so much accumulated learning and formula in music is paralleled only by the rejection in the early 20th century of the entire structure of key relationships. Not every contemporary was delighted with this revolutionary simplification: Johann Samuel Petri, in his \"Anleitung zur praktischen Musik\" (1782) spoke of the \"great catastrophe in music\" .\n\nThe change was as much at the birth of Romanticism as it was of Classicism. The folk-song element in poetry, like the singable \"cantabile\" melody in galant music, was brought to public notice in Thomas Percy's \"Reliques of Ancient Poetry\" (1765) and James Macpherson's \"Ossian\" inventions during the 1760s.\nSome of Telemann's later music and of Bach's sons, Johann Quantz, Hasse, Giovanni Battista Sammartini, Giuseppe Tartini, Baldassare Galuppi, Johann Stamitz, Domenico Alberti, and early Mozart are exemplars of galant style. Some of the works of the Portuguese composer Carlos Seixas are firmly in the galant style.\n\nThis simplified style was melody-driven, not constructed, as so much classical music was to be, on rhythmic or melodic motifs: \"It is indicative that Haydn, even in his old age, is reported to have said, 'If you want to know whether a melody is really beautiful, sing it without accompaniment'\" . This simplification also extended to harmonic rhythm, which is generally slower in galant music than is the case in the earlier baroque style, thus making lavish melodic ornamentation and nuances of secondary harmonic colorings more important .\n\nThe affinities of galant style with Rococo in the visual arts are easily overplayed, but characteristics that were valued in both genres were freshness, accessibility and charm. Watteau's \"fêtes galantes\" were rococo not merely in subject matter, but also in the lighter, cleaner tonality of his palette, and the glazes that supplied a galant translucency to his finished pictures often compared to the orchestrations of galant music (, ).\n\n"}
{"id": "11311079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11311079", "title": "Guan Li", "text": "Guan Li\n\nThe Guan Li () is the Confucian coming of age ceremony. The name Guan Li refers to the ceremony for men, while the Ji Li () refers to the one for women. \n\nThe age of the person is usually 20 and during the ceremony, the person obtains a style name. These ceremonies are now rarely practiced in China, but there has been a recent resurgence, especially from those who are sympathetic to the Hanfu movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "18620305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18620305", "title": "Hebrew spelling", "text": "Hebrew spelling\n\nHebrew spelling ( , \"Hebrew spelling\") refers to the way words are spelled in the Hebrew language. The Hebrew alphabet contains 22 letters, all of which are primarily consonants. This is because the Hebrew script is an abjad, that is, its letters indicate consonants, not vowels or syllables. An early system to overcome this, still used today, is \"matres lectionis\", where four of these letters, alef, he, waw and yodh also serve as vowel letters. Later, a system of vowel points to indicate vowels (diacritics), called niqqud, was developed.\n\nThroughout history, there have been two main systems of Hebrew spelling. One is vocalized spelling, the other is unvocalized spelling.\n\nIn vocalized spelling (\"ktiv menuqad\"), all of the vowels are indicated by vowel points (called niqqud). In unvocalized spelling (\"ktiv hasar niqqud\"), the vowel points are omitted, but some of them are substituted by additional vowel letters - waw and yodh (\"Ktiv malē\"). This system is the spelling system commonly used in Israel today.\n\nVowel points are always optional in Hebrew. They can be used fully, partially or not used at all. The recommended approach endorsed today by the Academy of the Hebrew Language and other Israeli educational institutions is to use \"plēnē\" spelling (\"matres lectionis\") when not adding vowel dots (which is the usual case), and place a vocalization sign on a letter only when ambiguity cannot be resolved otherwise. The \"defective\" spelling is recommended for a fully vocalized text, hence its use is becoming rare. Texts older than 50–60 years may be written in an unvocalized \"defective\" spelling (for example, the word \"ħamiším\" \"fifty\", was written חמשים on banknotes issued in Mandatory Palestine or the Bank of Israel in its early days. Today, the common spelling is חמישים). A vocalized \"plene\" spelling system is common in children books, when it is better to accustom the children to the more popular \"plene\" spelling, while still letting them benefit from the vowel dots as a reading aid in early learning stages.\n\nA third system that was endorsed in the past by the Academy of the Hebrew Language as an optimal system, but abandoned due to low popularity, calls for the use of \"ħolám\" (וֹ), \"šurúq\" (וּ), \"dagéš\" in \"Bet\", \"Kaf\" and \"Pe\" (בּ, כּ, פּ vs. ב, כ, פ), \"Šin Smalít\" (שׂ) and \"mappíq\" (הּ), while abandoning all other vowel dots (in everyday writing). According to this system, \"matres lectionis\" are still introduced to mark vowels, but the letter \"Vav\" is used only as a consonant, while its variants \"ħolám\" and \"šurúq\" serve as vowel letters. This system also makes clear distinction between final \"He\" used as a vowel marker (e.g. ילדה \"a girl\" ) and as a consonant (e.g. ילדהּ \"her child\"). This system was never extensively used, and the Academy of the Hebrew Language finally abandoned it in 1992, when new rules were published not assuming any use of vowel dots.\n\nRules for unvocalized spelling were first issued by the Hebrew Language Committee in 1890 (which became the Academy of the Hebrew Language in 1953) and formally standardised in 1996. Even though the rules are established, some of the rules and specific spellings are disputed by writers and publishers, who often create their own in-house spelling system. Also, because having two spelling systems within the same language is confusing, some would like to reform it. In 2004, Mordechai Mishor, one of the academy's linguists, proposed in a session of the Academy of the Hebrew Language a modest reform.\n\nThere are three systems of spelling used for Modern Hebrew.\n\nTo illustrate the problem with Ktiv haser:<br>\n\nIn practice, many times two or more spelling systems are used in one text. The most common example of this is a word may be vowelized (using niqqud, the \"dots\") partially, for instance with , where only the vav () is vowelized. This clarifies that the vowel is an \"o\" () and not \"u\" (). In addition, 3 letters (historically 6), can take a different sound depending on if there is a dot (called a dagesh) in the middle of the letter (a bet, kaf, and pe). In full spelling, the dot is not included, regardless if it is making one sound or the other. An example when a mixture of systems would be used is to clarify when the letter is taking a dagesh. An example of this is shown in the adjacent picture, where for the word kosher ( , , ) may be written as כּשר (a mixture of the two systems) to be unambiguous that it is the letter כּ and not כ . Words may be written in \"ktiv haser\" (\"missing spelling\") if it is unambiguous and clear enough (ex. חנכה instead of the \"full\" form חנוכה). In this case, the reader deciphers the word mostly by its context.\n\nAlso, some words are almost always written in the \"missing\" form (\"ktiv haser\") in everyday life: לא (, no), אמא (, mother), אם (, if), and כנרת (, Kinneret).\n\n"}
{"id": "20078879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20078879", "title": "Human Ecology, Human Economy", "text": "Human Ecology, Human Economy\n\nHuman Ecology, Human Economy: Ideas for an Ecologically Sustainable Future is a 1997 book edited by Mark Diesendorf and Clive Hamilton. The authors' intent is to \"develop some of the basic ideas, concepts and tools that are needed to create a set of preferred futures for the Earth\". According to the editors, the book provides equal measures of human ecology and ecological economics, in order to assist the process of working towards a better future.\n\n\"Human Ecology, Human Economy\" has been reviewed in \"Ecological Economics\" and \"The Australian Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "310169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310169", "title": "Indian philosophy", "text": "Indian philosophy\n\nIndian philosophy refers to ancient philosophical traditions of the Indian subcontinent. The principal schools are classified as either orthodox or heterodox – āstika or nāstika – depending on one of three alternate criteria: whether it believes the Vedas as a valid source of knowledge; whether the school believes in the premises of Brahman and Atman; and whether the school believes in afterlife and Devas.\n\nThere are six major schools of orthodox Indian Hindu philosophy—Nyaya, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Yoga, Mīmāṃsā and Vedanta, and five major heterodox schools—Jain, Buddhist, Ajivika, Ajñana, and Cārvāka. However, there are other methods of classification; Vidyaranya for instance identifies sixteen schools of Indian philosophy by including those that belong to the Śaiva and Raseśvara traditions.\n\nThe main schools of Indian philosophy were formalised chiefly between 1000 BCE to the early centuries of the Common Era. Competition and integration between the various schools was intense during their formative years, especially between 800 BCE and 200 CE. Some schools like Jainism, Buddhism, Yoga, Śaiva and Vedanta survived, but others, like Ajñana, Charvaka and Ājīvika did not.\n\nAncient and medieval era texts of Indian philosophies include extensive discussions on Ontology (metaphysics, Brahman-Atman, Sunyata-Anatta), reliable means of knowledge (epistemology, Pramanas), value system (axiology) and other topics.\n\nIndian philosophies share many concepts such as dharma, karma, samsara, reincarnation, dukkha, renunciation, meditation, with almost all of them focussing on the ultimate goal of liberation of the individual through diverse range of spiritual practices (moksha, nirvana). They differ in their assumptions about the nature of existence as well as the specifics of the path to the ultimate liberation, resulting in numerous schools that disagreed with each other. Their ancient doctrines span the diverse range of philosophies found in other ancient cultures.\n\nMany Hindu intellectual traditions were classified during the medieval period of Brahmanic-Sanskritic scholasticism into a standard list of six orthodox (Astika) schools (darshanas), the \"Six Philosophies\" (\"\"), all of which accept the testimony of the Vedas.\n\nThese are often coupled into three groups for both historical and conceptual reasons: Nyaya-Vaishesika, Samkhya-Yoga, and Mimamsa-Vedanta. The Vedanta school is further divided into six sub-schools: Advaita (monism/nondualism), also includes the concept of Ajativada, Visishtadvaita (monism of the qualified whole), Dvaita (dualism), Dvaitadvaita (dualism-nondualism), Suddhadvaita, and Achintya Bheda Abheda schools.\n\nBesides these schools Mādhava Vidyāraṇya also includes the following of the aforementioned theistic philosophies based on the Agamas and Tantras:\n\n\nThe systems mentioned here are not the only orthodox systems, they are the chief ones, and there are other orthodox schools. These systems, accept the authority of Vedas and are regarded as orthodox (astika) schools of Hindu philosophy; besides these, schools that do not accept the authority of the Vedas are heterodox (nastika) systems such as Buddhism, Jainism, Ajivika and Cārvāka. This orthodox-heterodox terminology is a construct of Western languages, and lacks scholarly roots in Sanskrit. According to Andrew Nicholson, there have been various heresiological translations of Āstika and Nāstika in 20th century literature on Indian philosophies, but quite many are unsophisticated and flawed.\n\nSeveral Śramaṇic movements have existed before the 6th century BCE, and these influenced both the āstika and nāstika traditions of Indian philosophy. The Śramaṇa movement gave rise to diverse range of heterodox beliefs, ranging from accepting or denying the concept of soul, atomism, antinomian ethics, materialism, atheism, agnosticism, fatalism to free will, idealization of extreme asceticism to that of family life, strict ahimsa (non-violence) and vegetarianism to permissibility of violence and meat-eating. Notable philosophies that arose from Śramaṇic movement were Jainism, early Buddhism, Cārvāka, Ajñana and Ājīvika.\n\nAjñana was one of the nāstika or \"heterodox\" schools of ancient Indian philosophy, and the ancient school of radical Indian skepticism. It was a Śramaṇa movement and a major rival of early Buddhism and Jainism. They have been recorded in Buddhist and Jain texts. They held that it was impossible to obtain knowledge of metaphysical nature or ascertain the truth value of philosophical propositions; and even if knowledge was possible, it was useless and disadvantageous for final salvation. They were sophists who specialised in refutation without propagating any positive doctrine of their own.\n\nJain philosophy is the oldest Indian philosophy that separates body (matter) from the soul (consciousness) completely. Jainism was revived and re-established after Mahavira, the last and the 24th \"Tirthankara\", synthesised and revived the philosophies and promulgations of the ancient Śramaṇic traditions laid down by the first Jain tirthankara Rishabhanatha millions of years ago. According to Dundas, outside of the Jain tradition, historians date the Mahavira as about contemporaneous with the Buddha in the 5th-century BC, and accordingly the historical Parshvanatha, based on the c. 250-year gap, is placed in 8th or 7th century BC.\n\nJainism is a Śramaṇic religion and rejected the authority of the Vedas. However, like all Indian religions, it shares the core concepts such as karma, ethical living, rebirth, samsara and moksha. Jainism places strong emphasis on asceticism, ahimsa (non-violence) and anekantavada (relativity of viewpoints) as a means of spiritual liberation, ideas that influenced other Indian traditions. \nJainism strongly upholds the individualistic nature of soul and personal responsibility for one's decisions; and that self-reliance and individual efforts alone are responsible for one's liberation. According to the Jain philosophy, the world (\"Saṃsāra\") is full of \"hiṃsā\" (violence). Therefore, one should direct all his efforts in attainment of Ratnatraya, that are Samyak Darshan, Samyak Gnana, and Samyak Chàritra which are the key requisites to attain liberation.\n\nBuddhist philosophy is a system of thought which started with the teachings of Siddhartha Gautama, the Buddha, or \"awakened one\". Buddhism is founded on elements of the Śramaṇa movement, which flowered in the first half of the 1st millennium BCE, but its foundations contain novel ideas not found or accepted by other Sramana movements. Buddhism and Hinduism mutually influenced each other and shared many concepts, states Paul Williams, however it is now difficult to identify and describe these influences. Buddhism rejected the Vedic concepts of Brahman (ultimate reality) and Atman (soul, self) at the foundation of Hindu philosophies.\n\nBuddhism shares many philosophical views with other Indian systems, such as belief in \"karma\" – a cause-and-effect relationship, samsara – ideas about cyclic afterlife and rebirth, dharma – ideas about ethics, duties and values, impermanence of all material things and of body, and possibility of spiritual liberation (nirvana or moksha). A major departure from Hindu and Jain philosophy is the Buddhist rejection of an eternal soul (\"atman\") in favour of \"anatta\" (non-Self).\n\nThe philosophy of Ājīvika was founded by Makkhali Gosala, it was a Śramaṇa movement and a major rival of early Buddhism and Jainism. Ājīvikas were organised renunciates who formed discrete monastic communities prone to an ascetic and simple lifestyle.\n\nOriginal scriptures of the Ājīvika school of philosophy may once have existed, but these are currently unavailable and probably lost. Their theories are extracted from mentions of Ajivikas in the secondary sources of ancient Indian literature, particularly those of Jainism and Buddhism which polemically criticized the Ajivikas. The Ājīvika school is known for its \"Niyati\" doctrine of absolute determinism (fate), the premise that there is no free will, that everything that has happened, is happening and will happen is entirely preordained and a function of cosmic principles. Ājīvika considered the karma doctrine as a fallacy. Ājīvikas were atheists and rejected the authority of the Vedas, but they believed that in every living being is an \"ātman\" – a central premise of Hinduism and Jainism.\n\nCārvāka or Lokāyata was a philosophy of scepticism and materialism, founded in the Mauryan period. They were extremely critical of other schools of philosophy of the time. Cārvāka deemed Vedas to be tainted by the three faults of untruth, self-contradiction, and tautology. Likewise they faulted Buddhists and Jains, mocking the concept of liberation, reincarnation and accumulation of merit or demerit through karma. They believed that, the viewpoint of relinquishing pleasure to avoid pain was the \"reasoning of fools\".\n\nThe Indian traditions subscribed to diverse philosophies, significantly disagreeing with each other as well as orthodox Hinduism and its six schools of Hindu philosophy. The differences ranged from a belief that every individual has a soul (self, atman) to asserting that there is no soul, from axiological merit in a frugal ascetic life to that of a hedonistic life, from a belief in rebirth to asserting that there is no rebirth.\n\nThe Arthashastra, attributed to the Mauryan minister Chanakya, is one of the early Indian texts devoted to political philosophy. It is dated to 4th century BCE and discusses ideas of statecraft and economic policy.\n\nThe political philosophy most closely associated with modern India is the one of ahimsa (non-violence) and Satyagraha, popularised by Mahatma Gandhi during the Indian struggle for independence. In turn it influenced the later movements for independence and civil rights, especially those led by Martin Luther King, Jr. and Nelson Mandela.\n\nIn appreciation of complexity of the Indian philosophy, T S Eliot wrote that the great philosophers of India \"make most of the great European philosophers look like schoolboys\". Arthur Schopenhauer used Indian philosophy to improve upon Kantian thought. In the preface to his book \"The World As Will And Representation\", Schopenhauer writes that one who \"has also received and assimilated the sacred primitive Indian wisdom, then he is the best of all prepared to hear what I have to say to him\" The 19th century American philosophical movement Transcendentalism was also influenced by Indian thought\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24823980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24823980", "title": "Infant Potty Training", "text": "Infant Potty Training\n\nInfant Potty Training is both the name of a means of toilet training and the title of a book by author Laurie Boucke. The complete book title is \"Infant Potty Training: A Gentle and Primeval Method Adapted to Modern Living\". It is an expansion of ideas that were originally presented in a small self-published volume called \"Trickle Treat\" in 1991. \"Infant Potty Training\" was first published in 2000, is now in its third edition (2008), and has editions in German, Dutch, Italian and Japanese. Infant potty training is traditionally used in at least 80 countries.\n\nBoucke's method of infant potty training is based on an ancient means of toilet training stemming from cultures that don't use diapers and washing machines, and that has been adapted to a modern urban lifestyle in various ways, including the use of a potty or toilet, part-time pottying and part-time diapering. Instead of always letting a baby eliminate in a diaper, parents start to offer some potty or toilet visits, usually at a much earlier age than with contemporary toilet training.\n\nThe book consists of four parts:\n\n\nThe key is to create cue associations that can be used as a means of communication. This is done by learning and responding to body language and vocalizations, as well as to elimination timing and patterns. As a child matures, he starts to intentionally signal about his toilet needs. As with other means of toilet training, there is no fixed length or guaranteed outcome. \nThe four main steps for beginners are:\nParents watch and take note of the child's:\n\nParents anticipate when the child needs to go, then at that moment, give a cue signal (a sound, hand signal, word or phrase). The child will associate these with potty time.\nAfter establishing a comfortable position—whether it be in-arms for an infant or on a potty or toilet for a toddler — the same position and location are used for a while, and the child associates these with potty time.\nAs the child matures, natural bodily and vocal communication expands to include intentional communication in various forms such as the use of sign language or other hand signals, vocalizations, words, and phrases. Parents continue to communicate through manual and audible signals.\n\nVariations of infant potty training have been used in non-Western societies for centuries, and this information has been passed down both orally and later in writing.\n\nA hindrance to the acceptance of the practice in modern Western societies for some years was the misconception that infant potty training is the same as a somewhat harsh and coercive method used in the early 1900s in Europe and North America that used suppositories to put the baby on a strict schedule of bowel movements. This harsh toilet training method is described in the 1929 and 1935 editions of \"Infant Care\", a US Department of Labor, Children's Bureau publication. However, gentler methods that did not rely on suppositories were recommended in the 1914 and 1938 and later editions of \"Infant Care\". Though a regulated schedule was valued in many parts of infant care including toilet training, at no time was punishment considered appropriate for an infant under one year of age. Boucke's method of infant potty training focuses on learning and responding to the child’s natural elimination timing and signals rather than trying to institute a strict schedule.\n"}
{"id": "49899276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49899276", "title": "International Association of Women's Museums", "text": "International Association of Women's Museums\n\nThe International Association of Women’s Museums (IAWM) is an organisation with its foundation office in Bonn (Germany) and its administrative office in Merano (Italy). The network was founded in 2008 in Merano and transformed into an association in Alice Springs (Australia) in 2012. It has the goal to connect women’s museums worldwide and to advocate for their interests.\n\nIAWM is led by six board members from different continents. The chairwoman is currently Mona Holm from Norway and the coordinator of the network is Astrid Schönweger from Italy.\n\nIAWM’s goal is to promote culture, arts, education and training from a gender perspective. Furthermore, the association wants to foster exchange, networking, mutual support and global cooperation among Women's Museums. Conducting research and the development of projects, exhibitions, new initiatives, community activities, seminars and conferences is another goal. IAWM is also working to promote and strengthen the acceptance of women’s museums, to promote their global cooperation and mutual support, and to achieve international recognition in the world of museums. The membership of women’s and gender museums worldwide and is advocating for women’s rights and a gender-democratic society.\n\nThe association works as juncture network and as a central contact point for mediation for women’s museums and initiatives. It monitors women’s museums and initiatives worldwide.\n\n\nToday women’s museums exist on every continent. They have originated mostly independently from each other. Women’s museums of the USA and Europe have their origin in the period of the second-wave feminism and its new understanding of history as gender history. Likewise, the museums of other continents have their roots in modern feminism. They want to provide insight into female history, culture or art to an interested public.\n\nWomen’s museums are important for women’s education, empowerment, and self-confidence. They provide awareness training, possibilities for independent actions, and tools to overcome discrimination.\n\nThe association IAWM emerged from the Network of Women’s Museums, which was founded in Merano, Italy in 2008. The Women’s Museum in Merano and Senegal organised the first congress, where 25 women’s museums from all five continents joined for a meeting. The Iranian Nobel Peace Prize Winner (2003) Shirin Ebadi was invited to take over the role of the godmother of the congress and thereafter, she became the permanent godmother of the network. She said, \"The women are the ones who write the history of the world! There has to be a women’s museum in every country of the world!\" This quote became the motto of the network.\n\nFinally, the association was founded at the 4th International Congress Of Women’s Museums in Alice Springs, Australia in 2012.\n\nSince then, international congresses take place every four years and, if desired, continental congresses are organised in between.\n\nJune 2008 1st International Congress of Women’s Museums in Merano, Italy\n\nJuly 2009 2nd International Congress in Bonn, Germany\n\nMay 2010 3rd International Congress in Buenos Aires, Argentina\n\nOctober 2011: 1st European Congress in Berlin, Germany\n\nMay 2012: 4th International Congress in Alice Springs, Australia\n\nOctober 2013: 2nd European Congress in Berlin, Germany\n\nNovember 2014: 3rd European Congress in Bonn, Germany\n\nNovember 2016: 5th International Congress, Mexico City, Mexico\n\nPlanned:\n\n2018: 4th European and 1st European-Asian Congress, Istanbul, Turkey\n\n2020: 6th International Congress, Hittisau, Austria\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19358698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19358698", "title": "Jacques Heim", "text": "Jacques Heim\n\nJacques Heim (8 May 1899 – 8 January 1967) was a French fashion designer and costume designer for theater and film, and was a manufacturer of women's furs. From 1930 to his death in 1967, he ran the fashion house (\"maison de couture\") \"Jacques Heim\", which closed in 1969. He was president of the Paris \"Chambre Syndicale de la haute couture\" from 1958 to 1962, a period of transition from \"haute couture\" to ready-to-wear clothing.\n\nJacques Heim was born in Paris. His parents were Isadore and Jeanne Heim, Jews of Polish origin. \n\nIn the early 1920s, Heim started working in his parents' fur business, which they had founded in 1898. He took over the business in 1923, and within a few years had added a couture department, designing dresses and coats, made with original fabrics, working in collaboration with Sonia Delaunay. In 1930, the workshop became the fashion house \"Jacques Heim\". He also made ready-to-wear and in 1936 started a line for younger women, \"Heim Jeunes Filles\". In 1932, Heim created a two-piece swimsuit consisting of a bra with ruffles and pretty bloomers, which he called the \"Atome\". However, women were not yet ready to reveal their midriff, with only a few daring to wear his swimsuit.\n\nHe was harassed during the Nazi occupation of France, but managed to stay in business by putting a non-Jewish \"front man\" in charge of his fashion house. He was an active member of the French resistance.\n\nIn 1946 Heim started a chain of sportswear boutiques. In June 1946, he relaunched his two-piece swimsuit, the \"Atome\", which he advertised as \"the world's smallest bathing suit.\" However, on 5 July 1946, Louis Réard, a French engineer, had a Paris stripper pose before reporters in an even briefer two-piece swimsuit, which Réard called the Bikini, and which he promoted as \"smaller than the smallest bathing suit\". Réard's design, unlike Heim's, for the first time presented a female swimsuit with the navel exposed. Though financially successful, the bikini was very controversial. Réard's name for the swimsuit caught on, and became the common name for the style of swimwear.\n\nIn 1950, Heim launched another ready-to-wear line, \"Heim Actualité\".\n\nUnder the presidency of Charles de Gaulle, he was appointed designer of the president's wife, Yvonne de Gaulle. His most prominent clients were Sophia Loren, Queen Fabiola of Belgium, Mamie Eisenhower and actress Gloria Swanson. In 1956, Heim made the bikini an international sensation when Brigitte Bardot wore one of his designs.\n\nHeim served as President of \"Chambre Syndicale de la Couture Parisienne\" (Paris Fashion Trade Association) from 1958 to 1962.\n\nHeim had a son, Philippe, and a daughter, Arianne. Jacques died in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a suburb of Paris, at age 67. In August 1968, Philippe Heim took over \"Jacques Heim\" and all associated companies and stores, but the business was sold in 1969 to French bridalwear concern Henri Michmacher, who owned several boutiques under the name of Pronuptia.\n\nHeim's grandson, also named Jacques Heim, is the director of the DIAVOLO | Architecture in Motion, a Los Angeles-based dance company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3210520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210520", "title": "Japanese aesthetics", "text": "Japanese aesthetics\n\nThe modern study of Japanese aesthetics only started a little over two hundred years ago in the West. The Japanese aesthetic is a set of ancient ideals that include \"wabi\" (transient and stark beauty), \"sabi\" (the beauty of natural patina and aging), and \"yūgen\" (profound grace and subtlety). These ideals, and others, underpin much of Japanese cultural and aesthetic norms on what is considered tasteful or beautiful. Thus, while seen as a philosophy in Western societies, the concept of aesthetics in Japan is seen as an integral part of daily life. Japanese aesthetics now encompass a variety of ideals; some of these are traditional while others are modern and sometimes influenced by other cultures.\n\nShinto is considered to be at the fountain-head of Japanese culture. With its emphasis on the wholeness of nature and character in ethics, and its celebration of the landscape, it sets the tone for Japanese aesthetics. Nevertheless, Japanese aesthetic ideals are most heavily influenced by Japanese Buddhism. In the Buddhist tradition, all things are considered as either evolving from or dissolving into nothingness. This \"nothingness\" is not empty space. It is rather a space of potentiality. If the seas represent potential then each thing is like a wave arising from it and returning to it. There are no permanent waves. At no point is a wave complete, even at its peak. Nature is seen as a dynamic whole that is to be admired and appreciated. This appreciation of nature has been fundamental to many Japanese aesthetic ideals, \"arts,\" and other cultural elements. In this respect, the notion of \"art\" (or its conceptual equivalent) is also quite different from Western traditions (see Japanese art).\n\nWabi and sabi refers to a mindful approach to everyday life. Over time their meanings overlapped and converged until they are unified into \"Wabi-sabi\", the aesthetic defined as the beauty of things \"imperfect, impermanent, and incomplete\". Things in bud, or things in decay, as it were, are more evocative of wabi-sabi than things in full bloom because they suggest the transience of things. As things come and go, they show signs of their coming or going, and these signs are considered to be beautiful. In this, beauty is an altered state of consciousness and can be seen in the mundane and simple. The signatures of nature can be so subtle that it takes a quiet mind and a cultivated eye to discern them. In Zen philosophy there are seven aesthetic principles for achieving Wabi-Sabi.\n\nFukinsei (不均斉): asymmetry, irregularity;\n\nKanso (簡素): simplicity;\n\nKoko (考古): basic, weathered;\n\nShizen (自然): without pretense, natural;\n\nYugen (幽玄): subtly profound grace, not obvious;\n\nDatsuzoku (脱俗): unbounded by convention, free;\n\nSeijaku (静寂): tranquility, silence.\nEach of these things are found in nature but can suggest virtues of human character and appropriateness of behaviour. This, in turn suggests that virtue and civility can be instilled through an appreciation of, and practice in, the arts. Hence, aesthetic ideals have an ethical connotation and pervades much of the Japanese culture.\n\nMiyabi (雅) is one of the oldest of the traditional Japanese aesthetic ideals, though perhaps not as prevalent as Iki or Wabi-sabi. In modern Japanese, the word is usually translated as \"elegance,\" \"refinement,\" or \"courtliness\" and sometimes referred to as \"heart-breaker\".\n\nThe aristocratic ideal of Miyabi demanded the elimination of anything that was absurd or vulgar and the \"polishing of manners, diction, and feelings to eliminate all roughness and crudity so as to achieve the highest grace.\" It expressed that sensitivity to beauty which was the hallmark of the Heian era. Miyabi is often closely connected to the notion of Mono no aware, a bittersweet awareness of the transience of things, and thus it was thought that things in decline showed a great sense of miyabi.\n\nShibui (渋い) (adjective), shibumi (渋み) (noun), or shibusa (渋さ) (noun) are Japanese words which refer to a particular aesthetic or beauty of simple, subtle, and unobtrusive beauty. Originating in the Muromachi period (1336–1392) as shibushi, the term originally referred to a sour or astringent taste, such as that of an unripe persimmon. Shibui maintains that literal meaning still, and remains the antonym of amai (甘い), meaning 'sweet'. Like other Japanese aesthetic terms, such as iki and wabi-sabi, shibui can apply to a wide variety of subjects, not just art or fashion. Shibusa includes the following essential qualities. (1) Shibui objects appear to be simple overall but they include subtle details, such as textures, that balance simplicity with complexity. (2) This balance of simplicity and complexity ensures that one does not tire of a shibui object but constantly finds new meanings and enriched beauty that cause its aesthetic value to grow over the years. (3) Shibusa is not to be confused with wabi or sabi. Though many wabi or sabi objects are shibui, not all shibui objects are wabi or sabi. Wabi or sabi objects can be more severe and sometimes exaggerate intentional imperfections to such an extent that they can appear to be artificial. Shibui objects are not necessarily imperfect or asymmetrical, though they can include these qualities. (4) Shibusa walks a fine line between contrasting aesthetic concepts such as elegant and rough or spontaneous and restrained.\n\nIki (いき, often written 粋) is a traditional aesthetic ideal in Japan. The basis of iki is thought to have formed among urbane mercantile class (Chōnin) in Edo in the Tokugawa period (1603–1868). Iki is an expression of simplicity, sophistication, spontaneity, and originality. It is ephemeral, straightforward, measured, and unselfconscious. Iki is not overly refined, pretentious, complicated. Iki may signify a personal trait, or artificial phenomena exhibiting human will or consciousness. Iki is not used to describe natural phenomena, but may be expressed in human appreciation of natural beauty, or in the nature of human beings. The phrase \"iki\" is generally used in Japanese culture to describe qualities that are aesthetically appealing and when applied to a person, what they do, or have, constitutes a high compliment. \"Iki\" is not found in nature. While similar to \"wabi-sabi\" in that it disregards perfection, \"iki\" is a broad term that encompasses various characteristics related to refinement with flair. The tasteful manifestation of sensuality can be \"iki\". Etymologically, iki has a root that means pure and unadulterated. However, it also carries a connotation of having an appetite for life.\n\nJo-ha-kyū (序破急) is a concept of modulation and movement applied in a wide variety of traditional Japanese arts. Roughly translated to \"beginning, break, rapid\", it implies a tempo that begins slowly, accelerates, and then ends swiftly. This concept is applied to elements of the Japanese tea ceremony, to kendō, to the traditional theatre, to Gagaku, and to the traditional collaborative linked verse forms renga and renku (haikai no renga).\n\n is an important concept in traditional Japanese aesthetics. The exact translation of the word depends on the context. In the Chinese philosophical texts the term was taken from, yūgen meant \"dim\", \"deep\" or \"mysterious\". In the criticism of Japanese waka poetry, it was used to describe the subtle profundity of things that are only vaguely suggested by the poems, and was also the name of a style of poetry (one of the ten orthodox styles delineated by Fujiwara no Teika in his treatises).\n\nYūgen suggests that which is beyond what can be said, but it is not an allusion to another world. It is about this world, this experience. All of these are portals to yūgen:\n\n\"To watch the sun sink behind a flower clad hill.\nTo wander on in a huge forest without thought of return.\nTo stand upon the shore and gaze after a boat that disappears behind distant islands.\nTo contemplate the flight of wild geese seen and lost among the clouds.\nAnd, subtle shadows of bamboo on bamboo.\" Zeami Motokiyo\n\nZeami was the originator of the dramatic art form Noh theatre and wrote the classic book on dramatic theory (Kadensho). He uses images of nature as a constant metaphor. For example, \"snow in a silver bowl\" represents \"the Flower of Tranquility\". Yūgen is said to mean \"a profound, mysterious sense of the beauty of the universe ... and the sad beauty of human suffering\". It is used to refer to Zeami's interpretation of \"refined elegance\" in the performance of Noh.\n\n refers to the various traditional Japanese arts disciplines: (theater), (Japanese flower arrangement), (Japanese calligraphy), (Japanese tea ceremony), and (Japanese pottery). All of these disciplines carry an ethical and aesthetic connotation and teach an appreciation of the process of creation. To introduce discipline into their training, Japanese warriors followed the example of the arts that systematized practice through prescribed forms called kata - think of the tea ceremony. Training in combat techniques incorporated the way of the arts (Geidō), practice in the arts themselves, and instilling aesthetic concepts (for example, yugen) and the philosophy of arts (geido ron). This led to combat techniques becoming known as the martial arts (even today, David Lowry shows, in the 'Sword and Brush: the spirit of the martial arts', the affinity of the martial arts with the other arts). All of these arts are a form of tacit communication and we can, and do, respond to them by appreciation of this tacit dimension.\n\nEnsō (円相) is a Japanese word meaning \"circle\". It symbolizes the Absolute, enlightenment, strength, elegance, the Universe, and the void; it also may be taken to symbolize the Japanese aesthetic itself. Zen Buddhist calligraphists may \"believe that the character of the artist is fully exposed in how she or he draws an ensō. Only a person who is mentally and spiritually complete can draw a true ensō. Some artists will practice drawing an ensō daily, as a kind of spiritual exercise.\"\n\nBecause of its nature, Japanese aesthetics has a wider relevance than is usually accorded to aesthetics in the West. In her pathmaking book, Eiko Ikegami reveals a complex history of social life in which aesthetic ideals become central to Japan's cultural identities. She shows how networks in the performing arts, the tea ceremony, and poetry shaped tacit cultural practices and how politeness and politics are inseparable. She contends that what in Western cultures are normally scattered, like art and politics, have been, and are, distinctly integrated in Japan.\n\nAfter the introduction of Western notions in Japan, Wabi Sabi aesthetics ideals have been re-examined with Western values, by both Japanese and non-Japanese. Therefore, recent interpretations of the aesthetics ideals inevitably reflect Judeo-Christian perspectives and Western philosophy.\n\nMany traditional Japanese aesthetic criteria are manifest in, and discussed as part of, diverse elements of Japanese cuisine; see kaiseki for a refined expression.\n\nA modern phenomenon, since the 1970s cuteness or in Japanese has become a prominent aesthetic of Japanese popular culture, entertainment, clothing, food, toys, personal appearance, behavior, and mannerisms.\n\nAs a cultural phenomenon, cuteness is increasingly accepted in Japan as a part of Japanese culture and national identity. Tomoyuki Sugiyama, author of \"Cool Japan\", believes that \"cuteness\" is rooted in Japan's harmony-loving culture, and Nobuyoshi Kurita, a sociology professor at Musashi University in Tokyo, has stated that \"cute\" is a \"magic term\" that encompasses everything that's acceptable and desirable in Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "3669273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3669273", "title": "Kagami biraki", "text": "Kagami biraki\n\nKagami Biraki (鏡開き) is a Japanese traditional ceremony which literally translates to \"Opening the Mirror\" (from an abstinence) or, also, \"Breaking of the Mochi.\" It traditionally falls on January 11 (odd numbers are associated with being good luck in Japan) It refers to the opening of a Kagami mochi, or to the opening of a cask of sake at a party or ceremony.\nThe fourth Tokugawa \"shōgun\" was the first to hold this ceremony 300 years ago. On the eve of war, he gathered his \"daimyō\" in his castle to break open a sake cask. Upon achieving victory, a new tradition was born.\n\nThe ceremony nowadays is also performed at weddings, sporting events, opening days at new companies, and other significant events worthy of being celebrated.\n\nIn Japan, mochi was traditionally made at home, but most families today buy it ready-made. Over the holidays, a pair of round mochi (kagami mochi) the size of small plates – one a little larger than the other – is stacked on a stand and placed in a household Shinto or Buddhist altar or tokonoma as an offering to the deities that visit on New Year's. The ornamental mochi is removed on January 11 and broken into smaller pieces before being eaten.\n\nBy this time, the kagami mochi is usually quite brittle, and cracks appear on the surface. The mochi is not cut with a knife, since cutting has negative connotations (cutting off ties) and is instead broken with one's hands or a hammer.\n\nMany Japanese martial arts dojo use the Kagami Biraki ceremony to signify their first practice of the New Year.\n\n"}
{"id": "5701463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5701463", "title": "Latitude Zero (film)", "text": "Latitude Zero (film)\n\n, is a 1969 science fiction film. It was directed by Ishirō Honda and written by Ted Sherdeman, based on his radio serial of the same name.The film stars both American and Japanese actors including Joseph Cotten, Cesar Romero, Akira Takarada, Masumi Okada, Richard Jaeckel, Patricia Medina, and Akihiko Hirata.\n\nThree men (Dr. Ken Tashiro, Dr. Jules Masson, and Perry Lawton) are trapped in a bathysphere due to seismic activity. They are rescued by the crew of the supersubmarine \"Alpha\", captained by Craig Mackenzie (Cotten), who they learn is over 200 years old (and that the \"Alpha\" was launched in the early 19th century). Mackenzie takes them to Latitude Zero to deal with the serious injuries of Dr Masson. While returning to Latitude Zero, they are attacked by a rival supersubmarine, the \"Black Shark\", captained by Kuroi (Hikaru Kuroki), who works for a rival of Mackenzie, Dr. Malic (Romero), who is also over 200 years old and has a base at Blood Rock.\n\nLatitude Zero is a paradise hidden fifteen miles below the surface at the intersection of the Equator and the International Date Line. Gold is plentiful there and is used for protective clothing by the island's newcomers, while those who arrived in the 19th century prefer to dress as they are accustomed, as no one ages or dies. Diamonds are very common and used only in industrial use.\n\nDr. Malic, however, wishes to destroy the paradise of Latitude Zero, and uses giant rats and anthropomorphic bats in addition to James Bond-style devices against the undersea kingdom. Worst of all, after a cruel experiment grafting the wings of an eagle to a lion, he removes the brain of the unsuccessful Kuroi and places her brain in the creature. This proves to be his undoing when, at a critical moment, Kuroi turns against Malic as he prepares to fire an energy cannon at the escaping visitors, causing their destruction.\n\nOf all the visitors to Latitude Zero, only Perry Lawton (Jaeckel), a journalist, wishes to return home. He is picked up by a US Navy vessel and meets a Commander Glenn Mackenzie (Cotten again), and is put in the care of Lt. Hastings (Romero again). Horrified at whom he sees, Lawton discovers his film is ruined and when he opens the pouch where he placed his complimentary diamonds, he finds tobacco. Just as he is about to resign himself to the fact that his adventure never occurred, the ship is wired a message stating that a cache of diamonds has been deposited in his name in a safe deposit box in New York City.\n\n\nIn his autobiography \"Vanity Will Get You Somewhere\", actor Joseph Cotten stated that the American producer Don Sharp sent the American cast to Japan just as his company was about to go bankrupt. Cotten noted that Toho picked up most, if not all the film's production budget. \n\n\"Latitude Zero\"'s screenplay is credited to Ted Sherdeman and is based on his \"Latitude Zero\" stories, which were a popular American radio serial. The Japanese version credits Shinichi Sekizawa as the screenplay adviser, a role described by Stuart Galbraith IV as writing the Japanese version.\n\n\"Latitude Zero\" was released in Japan on July 29, 1969 with a print that was dubbed into Japanese. It received a release in the United States by National General Pictures. Akira Takarada and Akihiko Hirata speak English in the English-language version and are not dubbed. The film received a test screening in Dallas in July of 1969 and received a general theatrical release on December 1970. The film was re-issued theatrically in Japan in 1974 on a double bill with \"Mothra\". \n\nIn contemporary reviews, \"Variety\" reviewed the film at the Venice Film Festival's buyer's market, referring to it as a \"campy fun helped by sober playing and some deft underwater work, gadgets and movement.\" The story, however, is the weakest element in \"Latitude Zero.\" Roger Greenspun (\"New York Times\") found \"Latitude Zero\"'s plot to be \"the weakest element\", while noting that \"The real virtue of the film lies in its charming and careful models, its ingenious special effects, its fruity interior décor, its elaborate network of television screens\" The \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" stated that \"it is a sad fact that the special effects are notably variable, and the model work in particular looks extremely shoddy\" and the review concluded that \"Toho studios seem to have employed their specialized talents and resources to produce an outlandish and expensive leg-pull.\"\n\n \n\n \n"}
{"id": "25169060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25169060", "title": "Legality of child pornography", "text": "Legality of child pornography\n\nThe legality of child pornography is explicitly addressed in 94 of the 187 Interpol member states as of 2008, according to research performed by the International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children (ICMEC) Koons Family Institute on International Law and Policy. Of those 94 countries, 58 criminalized possession of child pornography regardless of intent to distribute. This figure does not count legislation outlawing all pornography; figures that also include non-specific bans on all pornography would therefore be higher if available.\n\nConvictions for possessing child pornography also usually include prison sentences, but those sentences are often converted to probation for first-time offenders. Some nations such as Canada and Australia have laws banning cartoon,anime, manga or written child pornography and others require ISPs (Internet service providers) to monitor internet traffic to detect it.\n\nThe United Nations Optional Protocol on the Rights of the Child requires states to outlaw the \"producing, distributing, disseminating, importing, exporting, offering, selling or possessing for the above purposes\" of child pornography. The Council of Europe's Cybercrime Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, and the EU Framework Decision that became active in 2006 require signatory or member states to criminalize all aspects of child pornography. Article 34 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) stated that all signatories shall take appropriate measures to prevent the exploitative use of children in pornographic performances and materials.\n\nInternational obligations to pass specific laws against child pornography \"punishable by appropriate penalties that take into account their grave nature\" as well as enable extradition, mutual assistance in investigation, and seizure of property were mandated by the Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.\n\nSome of the negotiations and reviews of the process took place at the World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children held in 1996 and 2001.\n\nWhile laws criminalizing child sexual abuse now exist in all countries of the world, more diversity of views exists on questions like exactly how young those depicted in pornography should be allowed to be, whether the mere possession of child pornography should be a crime, or whether sentences for such possession should be modified. \n\nIn 1999, in the case of \"R. v. Sharpe\", British Columbia's highest court struck down a law against possessing child pornography as unconstitutional. That opinion, written by Justice Duncan Shaw, held, \"There is no evidence that demonstrates a significant increase in the danger to children caused by pornography\", and \"A person who is prone to act on his fantasies will likely do so irrespective of the availability of pornography.\" The Opposition in the Canadian Parliament considered invoking the notwithstanding clause to override the court's ruling. However, it was not necessary because the Canadian Supreme Court overturned the decision with several findings including that viewing such material makes it more likely that the viewer will abuse, that the existence of such materials further hurts the victims as they know of its existence, and that the demand for such images encourages the abuse.\n\nIn the United States, some federal judges have argued that the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines' recommended penalties for possessors of child pornography are too harsh. Judge Jack B. Weinstein of New York criticizes the mandatory sentence for possession of child pornography as often \"higher\" than the penalty for actually committing the act of child abuse it depicts. Furthermore, child pornography prosecutions have led to dozens of suicides, some of them among the innocently accused. The requirement that people convicted of possessing child pornography pay restitution has been criticized by some judges and law professors. This has been particularly controversial in cases involving millions of dollars of restitution, as in those pertaining to the Misty Series. But in 2010, the US Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that restitution directly to depicted minors was an appropriate penalty for possession of child pornography.\n\nDuring the nomination process at the 2008 Libertarian National Convention, anarcho-capitalist and U.S. Presidential candidate Mary Ruwart came under fire for her comment in her 1998 book, \"Short answers to the tough questions\", in which she stated her opposition not only to laws against possession of child pornography but even against its \"production\", based on her belief that such laws actually encourage such behavior by increasing prices. Shane Cory, on behalf of the minarchist United States Libertarian Party in his role as executive director, issued a response saying, \"We have an obligation to protect children from sexual exploitation and abuse, and we can do this by increasing communication between state and federal agencies to help combat this repulsive industry. While privacy rights should always be respected in the pursuit of child pornographers, more needs to be done to track down and prosecute the twisted individuals who exploit innocent children.\" Cory resigned after the party refused to vote on a resolution asking states to strongly enforce existing child porn laws.\n\nThe law in Benin does not specifically prohibit child pornography. \n\nPossession of child pornography is illegal in Botswana and punishable with between 5 and 15 years' imprisonment.\n\nPossession of child pornography is illegal in Burkina Faso.\n\nPossession of child pornography is illegal in Burundi and punishable by fines and between 3 and 5 years in prison.\n\nWhile there is no minimum age of consent in Cameroon, the law prohibits the use of children for the production of pornography. Distributing child pornography or any document that \"could harm the dignity\" of a child is punishable by 5 to 10 years of imprisonment and fines from 5 million CFA francs to 10 million CFA francs. It is not known if possession of child pornography is illegal.\n\nPossession and production of child pornography is illegal in Comoros.\n\nChild pornography in the Republic of the Congo is punishable by up to 1 year in prison and a fine of up to 500,000 CFA.\n\nThe law in the Central African Republic does not prohibit child pornography.\n\nUsing children for pornographic films, pictures, or events is illegal in Ivory Coast and is punishable by between 1 month and 2 years of imprisonment and a fine of FCFA 30,000 to 300,000.\n\nUnder laws prohibiting attacks on \"good morals\", the sale, production, and distribution of all pornography, including child pornography, is illegal in Djibouti and punishable by 1 year in prison and a fine of up to DJF 200,000.\n\nThe law in Equatorial Guinea does not prohibit child pornography.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Eritrea.\n\nThe possession of all pornography, including child pornography, is illegal in Gabon and punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to one year and/or fines up to 222,000 CFA francs.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in the Gambia and punishable by up to 5 years in prison.\n\nWhile the law in Ghana does not specifically prohibit child pornography, it can be prosecuted as an \"offense against public morals\" which is punishable by a maximum of 3 years in prison and/or a fine ranging from 120 to 600 cedis.\n\nChild pornography in Guinea is illegal.\n\nThe law in Guinea-Bissau does not prohibit child pornography.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Lesotho and is punishable by imprisonment of up to 2 years and 6 months and/or a fine up to 30,000 maloti. In child pornography production cases where a child is trafficked, the offender faces up to life imprisonment and a fine of 2 million maloti.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Liberia and is punishable by up to 5 years' imprisonment.\n\nThe government in Madagascar in 2007 adopted a law modifying the criminal code to define child pornography, making it illegal. As of 2012, the laws have been used in court on several occasions but has not resulted in a conviction. Officials said the laws were often not uniformly interpreted or applied.\n\nChild pornography is considered a form of indecent assault under the criminal code in Mali and is punishable by 5 to 20 years in prison.\n\nPossession of child pornography is illegal in Mauritania with penalties of 2 months to 1 year in prison and a 160,000 to 300,000 ouguiya fine.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Mauritius.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Mozambique but appears to be rarely prosecuted. In 2011, there were no reports of prosecutions for child pornography.\n\nProduction and possession of child pornography is illegal in Namibia.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Niger and punishable by 3 to 5 years in prison.\n\nThe Child Rights Act makes child pornography illegal in Nigeria, but not all states have implemented it.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Rwanda and punishable by 5 to 10 years in prison and a fine of 200,000 to 500,000 Rwandan francs.\n\nThe law in São Tomé and Príncipe does not prohibit child pornography.\n\nAll pornography, including child pornography, is illegal in Senegal.\n\nWhile the Ministry of Social Welfare, Gender, and Children’s Issues has indicated child pornography cases are covered under the Child Rights Act of 2007, which prohibits \"cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment\" of children, the law in Sierra Leone does not prohibit child pornography. As of 2012, there is no record of anyone ever having been charged or convicted of child pornography.\n\nArticle 29 of Somalia's national constitution defines a child as any individual under the age of 18, and stipulates that \"every child has the right to be protected from mistreatment, neglect, abuse, or degradation\".\n\nChild pornography is illegal in South Africa and is punishable by fines and up to 10 years in prison.\n\nThe law in South Sudan does not prohibit child pornography.\n\nAll pornography, including child pornography, is illegal in Sudan.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Togo and is punishable by 5 to 10 years in prison.\n\nThe law in Uganda does not prohibit child pornography.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Zambia with penalties of up to life imprisonment.\n\nWhile it appears the law in Zimbabwe does not specifically prohibit child pornography, a person in possession of child pornography can be charged with public indecency which is punishable by a fine of $600, imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.\n\nThe law in Argentina does not prohibit the simple possession of child pornography, but child pornography possession with the intent to distribute is punishable by imprisonment ranging from 4 months to 2 years.\n\nAny person who produces, finances, offers, trades, publishes, facilitates, disseminates or distributes, by any means, any representation of a person under eighteen 18 years of age in explicit sexual activities or any representation of their genital parts for predominantly sexual purposes, as well the organization of live shows of explicit sexual representations involving such minors is punishable by imprisonment ranging from 6 months to 4 years.\n\nOn 23 April 2018 was promulgated a modification on the Penal Code, penalizing the possession of child pornography, with prison sentences between three and six years.\n\nThe law in Belize does not prohibit the simple possession of child pornography. It is unclear if distribution of child pornography is illegal.\n\nProduction, distribution and possession of child pornography are clearly illegal and widely prosecuted in Brazil in accordance with its Code of Minors. Also possibly illegal would be simple visualization and lack of denunciation, though it is not directly mentioned in the Code of Minors. Level of enforcement has historically varied by courts. Brazil also criminalizes every kind of prostitution of those under 18 years of age more severely.\n\nWhile the simple visualization of cartoons depicting sexual acts involving apparently human minors may not be illegal in itself, possession and especially production and/or distribution can be interpreted in courts to be of the same level of actual child pornography, since legislation is vague on the subject (see Articles 241-C and 241-E of the Code of Minors). Such a scenario is very remote though, as Brazilian courts do not often charge people for victimless crimes, especially those related to sexual misconduct (for example, while the age of consent is 14, the 18-year-old sexual partner of a consenting 13-year-old was once freed after less than two days by a judge).\n\nCanadian law forbids the production, distribution, and possession of child pornography. Possession of child pornography is punishable by up to 10 years in prison. Production and distribution of child pornography is punishable by up to 20 years in prison. Browsing for child pornography on the internet is punishable by up to 5 years in prison. Prohibitions cover visual representations of sexual activity by persons (real or imaginary) under the age of 18, depiction of their sexual organ/anal region for a sexual purpose, or any written material or visual representation that advocates child pornography offenses against a person under 18. There is an exception for material with artistic merit or an educational, scientific, or medical purpose. The law against simple possession of child pornography was declared void in British Columbia by a 1998 provincial court ruling but this decision was overturned two years later by the Canadian Supreme Court. The high court further concluded that a \"person\" under the law could be either real or fictional and that the prohibition of written texts was potentially acceptable. Cases have now been prosecuted in Canada involving anime and manga child pornography.\n\nThe possession, storing, fabrication or distribution of child pornography or any other kind of sexually explicit pedophile material is illegal under Ecuadorian law.\n\nThe law in Guyana does not specifically prohibit child pornography. However, the law does regulate the sale, publishing, or exhibiting of obscene material, defined as anything that could deprive or corrupt those open to immoral influences.\n\nThe production, possession, importation, exportation, and distribution of child pornography is illegal in Jamaica and is punishable by a maximum penalty of 23 years in prison and a fine of J$500,000.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Mexico and laws are strictly enforced. Any person caught producing, distributing, possessing, owning, exporting, importing child pornography or browsing for child pornography over the internet, involving children engaging in sexually explicit conduct or posing in sexually explicit manners shall be punished with up to 12 years' imprisonment, with hard labor, as well as a fine up to MXN $500,000. A second conviction for child pornography requires the offenders to be placed on the Sex Offender Registry permanently.\n\nAlthough child pornography may also be obscene, a legal term that refers to offensive or violent forms of pornography that have been declared by decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court to be outside the protection of the First Amendment regarding free speech, it is defined differently from obscenity. Federal Sentencing Guidelines regarding child pornography differentiate between production, distribution and purchasing/receiving, and also include variations in severity based on the age of the child involved in the materials, with significant increases in penalties when the offense involves a prepubescent child or a child under the age of 12. The punishments are usually very severe normally ranging from 5 years' to 40 years' imprisonment. The U.S. laws against child pornography are always enforced and among the harshest in the world. Despite the very harsh laws, the U.S. is one of the largest producers of child pornography in the world, behind Japan and Russia. The PROTECT Act of 2003 codifies much of the U.S. child pornography laws, including simulated child pornography, such as cartoons, and has been used to successfully prosecute individuals for possession of cartoon child pornography. Fictional (simulated) child pornography, however, is legalized if and only if it passes the Miller test.\n\nThe possession, production, distribution and public sale of child pornography is illegal in Bangladesh and punishment by fines and up to 10 years' imprisonment. Children trafficking for \"illegal and immoral purposes\" is a capital offence in Bangladesh and the offenders can face up to life imprisonment or even the death penalty.\n\nPornography of any kind, including child pornography is illegal in the People's Republic of China. As of 2015 China has no specific law that refers to child pornography in particular.\n\nUnder the criminal code of China, those producing, reproducing, publishing, selling, or disseminating obscene materials with the purpose of making a profit may be sentenced up to 3 years in prison or put under criminal detention or surveillance, in addition to paying a fine. Offenders in serious cases may receive prison sentences of 3 to 10 years, in addition to paying a fine. If the case is especially serious, they are to be sentenced to 10 years or more in prison or given a life sentence, in addition to a fine or confiscation of property. Persons found disseminating obscene books, magazines, films, audio or video products, pictures, or other kinds of obscene materials, if the case is serious, may be sentenced up to 2 years in prison or put under criminal detention or surveillance. Persons organizing the broadcast of obscene motion pictures or other audio or video products may be sentenced up to 3 years in prison or put under criminal detention or surveillance, in addition to paying a fine. If the case is serious, they are to be sentenced to 3 years to 10 years in prison in addition to paying a fine. Broadcasting or showing obscene materials to those under the age of 18 is also illegal and has more severe punishments compared to distribution to those 18 or older.\n\nAs in Mainland China, child pornography of any kind is illegal in Hong Kong. The law makes it an offense to possess, produce, copy, import, or export pornography involving a child under 18 years of age, or to publish or cause to be published any advertisement that conveys or is likely to be understood as conveying the message that any person has published, publishes, or intends to publish any child pornography. The penalty for creation, publication, or advertisement of child pornography is 8 years’ imprisonment, while possession carries a penalty of 5 years' imprisonment.\n\nThe law in India prohibits child pornography. In February 2009, the Parliament of India passed the \"Information Technology (Amendment) Bill\" which made creation and transmission of child pornography illegal. The bill also enables India's law enforcement agencies to take action against those seeking child pornography. For example, browsing for child pornography on the internet can lead to 5 years in prison and ₹ 1 million fine.\n\nAll pornography, including child pornography, is illegal in Iran.\n\nIn Indonesia all pornography is forbidden but Indonesia has no laws regarding pornography online. Jakarta's Chinatown district is considered to be one of the largest pornographic bazaars in Southeast Asia. Indonesia has been called \"a heaven for child pornography\".\n\nThe law in Japan prohibits child pornography. The production, sale, distribution, commercialization, and/or possession of child pornography is illegal under Article 7 of the \"Act on Punishment of Activities Relating to Child Prostitution and Child Pornography, and the Protection of Children\" and is punishable by a maximum penalty of 5 years in prison and/or a fine of ¥5,000,000. Possession of child pornography with any intent of distribution or sale is also illegal. New law regulations since 2014 require people in possession of child pornography to dispose of it within 1 year before they risk prosecution in Japan.\n\nThe law in Kazakhstan does not prohibit the simple possession of child pornography. In 2010, the government introduced a criminal statute on the production and distribution of child pornography. Those convicted face administrative penalties.\n\nSection 4 to 10 of the Sexual Offenses Against Children Act 2017 criminalises the sale, production, distribution, and possession of child pornography, including sexually explicit material involving \"a person appearing to be a child.\"\n\nThe age of consent for sexual activity in Malaysia is 16 years and above for both males and females. Muslim non-governmental organisation Pertubuhan Ikram Malaysia (Ikram) president Dr Mohd Parid Sheikh Ahmad pointed out - in the case of Mara scholar Nur Fitri Azmeer Nordin who was caught with 30,000 explicit images of naked children or children taking part in a sexual act that watching pornographic videos and images is also haram in Islam.\n\nProducing, distributing, importing and watching all types of pornography is illegal in North Korea. The country has ratified the Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but has enacted no legislation specific to child pornography.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Pakistan. The preparation, possession or distribution of any such data related to child pornography is a illegal under the Pakistani law. Whoever that commits an offence of child pornography shall be punished with imprisonment term not less than 14 years and may extend up to 20 years in prison with the fine of 1 million rupees.\n\nThe Philippines passed Republic Act No. 9775 \"Anti Child Pornography Act\" in November 2009. The Act outlaws the production, creation, distribution and possession of child pornography. It also places obligations on mall operators and owners of commercial property to ensure that violations of child pornography are not being committed on their premises.\n\nControversially, the Act also creates obligations on internet-related service providers to ensure child pornography is not being stored or transmitted through their services. The Act requires internet service providers and internet hosting services to employ filtering software and to report child pornography violations within 7 days of discovery. How this obligation is to be implemented is yet to be seen. the implementing rules and regulations were yet to be released by the National Telecommunications Commission and the Inter-Agency Council Against Child Pornography.\n\nThe law also expressly places obligations upon photo developers, information technology professionals, credit card companies, banks and anyone with direct knowledge of child pornography activities to report suspected child pornography materials and transaction within 7 days of discovery.\n\nPrior to the Anti-Child Pornography Act, it was already illegal to use children for pornography and to sell and distribute that material. Under section 9 of Republic Act No. 7610 \"Special Protection of Children Against Child Abuse, Exploitation and Discrimination Act\", its prohibited to hire, employ, use, persuade, induce or coerce a child into performing for obscene publications or pornographic materials.\n\nIn addition, the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act (Republic Act no. 9208) also outlaws the trafficking of children for the use in pornographic material.\n\nAll pornography is illegal in Saudi Arabia, and the law makes no distinction between adult pornography and child pornography.\n\nIt is illegal to keep, distribute or sell pornographic materials, under the Undesirable Publications Act 1967, as well as section 292 of the Penal Code. It is also illegal to keep, distribute or sell pornographic films under sections 29 and 30 of the Films Act 1981.\n\nICMEC Singapore may have built a voluntary Asia-Pacific Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography (APAC-FCACP) by bringing together representatives from the financial and technology industries along with members of the law enforcement community to fight online child sexual exploitation. This is modeled after the Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography in the United States.\n\nThe law in South Korea does not prohibit the simple possession of child pornography, but production and distribution of child pornography is illegal and punishable by up to 1 year in prison or by fines which can total up to 20 million Korean Won; moreover, the criminal can be forced to wear an electronic ankle bracelet for up to 10 years, can be listed on the sex offenders registry for up to 20 years, and may be prohibited from working in child and youth related occupations.\n\nProduction, distribution, sale and possession of child pornography is illegal in Sri Lanka. It is punishable by up to 20 years' imprisonment, severe fines and/or forfeiture of property.\n\nAll pornography, including child pornography is illegal in Syria, but is unclear if this includes simple possession of child pornography. The penalties for child pornography are also unknown and it is unclear if anyone was ever prosecuted for child pornography.\n\nChild and Adolescent Sex Exploitation Prevention Act criminalized the production, broadcast, distribution, exhibition of child pornography. Simple possession of such materials without justifiable cause is punishable by fines.\n\nThe production, distribution, import, or export of child pornography is illegal in Thailand and punishable by a maximum of 3 years in prison and a fine not more than 6,000 baht. Child pornography possession has been illegal since December 8, 2015.\n\nThe production, distribution, dissemination, and sale of child pornography is illegal in Vietnam and is punishable by 3 to 10 years in prison. Simple possession of child pornography is most likely illegal as well, since the laws in Vietnam prohibit all pornography, regardless of circumstances.\n\nThe production and distribution of child pornography is illegal in Albania and punishable by a fine of 1 million leks to 5 million leks and a prison sentence of 1 to 5 years. It is unknown if simple possession of child pornography is illegal.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Andorra and punishable by up to 4 years in prison.\n\nChild pornography is illegal in Armenia and punishable by up to 7 years in prison.\n\nProduction and distribution of child pornography is punishable by up to 3 years in prison. \nProduction with intent of distribution as well as import, export, and transportation are punishable by up to 5 years in prison. Possession of pornography with children under the age of 14 (\"unmündig\") may result in a sentence up to 2 years, or up to 1 year if it contains pornographic material of children above the age of 14. \n\nAn exception to the prohibition of possession or production of pornographic content with children over the age of 14 exists if they consent and the material is only meant for personal use.\nPornographic depictions fictional minors are generally legal, with the exception of photorealistic (literal translation: \"near to reality\") content, which is treated as regular child pornography.\n\nThe law in Belarus does not prohibit the simple possession of child pornography, but production and distribution of pornographic materials depicting a minor is illegal and punishable by up to 13 years in prison.\n\nPossession, production and distribution of child pornography is illegal in Belgium and is enforced by authorities. Possessing child pornography can result to up to 1 year in prison, and producing or distributing child pornography is punishable by up to 15 years in prison. The law permits the prosecution of residents who commit such crimes while abroad.\n\nPossession, production and distribution of child pornography is illegal in Croatia and punishable by up to 5 years in prison. Also, exposing children to\npornography may result in fines or a sentence of up to 1 year in prison.\n\nThe possession, manufacturing, and distribution of child pornography is illegal in the Czech Republic and punishable by up to 8 years in prison. Possession of child pornography was made illegal in 2007 and is punishable by up to 2 years in prison.\n\nPossession, distribution, and production of child pornography is illegal under Danish law, likewise is spectating such an act even without taking part. Specifically, §230, §235, and §235a in the Danish Penal Code are concerned with children and pornography, although the language is dated and vague. Maximum sentence for simple possession is 1 year in prison.\n\nUnder Finnish law, it is illegal to possess, produce or distribute child pornography. Possession of child pornography is punishable by fine or imprisonment of 1 year while production or distribution of child pornography is punishable by fine or 2 years imprisonment.\n\n\"Aggravated\" distribution of child pornography depicting a child whom is (1) particularly young, (2) also subject to violence or particularly humiliating treatment, (3) the offence is committed in a particularly methodical manner or (4) the offence has been committed in the framework of a criminal organisation; and is punishable by up to 6 years imprisonment.\nChild pornography is illegal in France. The maximum penalty for its use and distribution is 5 years in prison and a €75,000 fine.\n\nChild pornography in Germany is illegal. German prosecution authorities and legal bodies of Germany's 16 states handle the definition of child pornography very differently. The German Edathy affair (former member of parliament) of 2013/2014 following the neglected cooperation of BKA within the Canadian child pornography uncoverings gave way for new legislation procedures in parliament to define the status of either posing or exhibitive pictures of minors. New laws were still in parliamentary debating as lately as 19 December 2014.\nThe production, distribution, possession and possession for sale of child pornography is completely illegal in Germany. A conviction for either one is punishable by up to 15 years' imprisonment. Attempting to gain access to child pornography is punishable by up to 6 years of imprisonment.\n\nThe law in Greece prohibits the possession and circulation of child pornography, treating it as a felony and is punishable by 5 to 10 years' imprisonment.\n\nThe law in Hungary prohibits the possession of child pornography of any kind which is punishable by up to 3 years in prison.\n\nPossession of child pornography is illegal in Iceland and punishable by up to 2 years in prison.\n\nThe Child Trafficking and Pornography Act 1998 prohibits the production, distribution, sale, publication and possession of child pornography. Penalties include prison sentences and fines. The most common way individuals in Ireland distribute or acquire child pornography is via the internet. Some ISPs have implemented filters that block sites containing child pornography. In early 2015, UPC set up an internet filtering system with the help of An Garda Síochána (The Irish Police Service) to block child pornography which applies to all of its customers. If an internet user tries to access a blocked site, a message will be displayed stating that the material is illegal and that is why the site has been blocked. However, UPC does not pass on the details of customers who try to access blocked sites to An Garda Síochána. However, not all ISPs have filters in place and filters can easily be bypassed using proxy servers.\n\nProduction, possession, distribution of child pornography in all its forms is illegal in Italy. Italian law clearly designates child pornography as \"portraying or visually depicting any minor engaged or involved in sexually explicit activities, as well as the simple lascivous exhibition or genitals or of the pubic region\".\n\nFrom 2 March 2006, prohibition also extends to simulated child pornography in a specific legal designation that defines virtual imagery as \"images realized through the modification of real photographs or images of minors, or parts thereof, with graphic elaboration techniques ... whose quality makes non-real situations appear as real\". This excludes drawings, cartoons, and other non-realistic simulated child pornography.\n\nProducers and distributors of child pornography are punished with imprisonment from 6 to 12 years, and with a fine ranging from 25.822 to 258.228 Euros. Possession of child pornography is punished with imprisonment up to 3 years, and with a minimum fine of €1500 (Codice penale, Article 600 ter, paragraph 5); sentences can be doubled or tripled if the quantity of child pornography found in possession of the culprit is \"vast\".\n\nSecondary punishment includes a lifetime ban from employment in schools and in public or private services, organizations, structures, institutions or business establishments mainly frequented by minors.\n\nProduction and possession of child pornography is illegal in Monaco. Since April 2009, the government of Monaco uses a list established by the Internet Watch Foundation to block access to websites containing child pornography.\n\nProduction, possession, and distribution of child pornography and accessing child pornography on the Internet is illegal in the Netherlands and punishable by up to 8 years in prison.\n\nChild pornography is statutorily criminalised in the Portuguese Criminal Code (Código Penal Português). The age of sexual consent in Portugal is, in principle, 14 years of age. The participation of underage persons in pornographic scenes is subject to stricter standards however because they are subject to the general regime of adulthood, which was set by the Civil Code at the age of 18.\n\nThe display, selling, dissemination, renting, distribution, and production of child pornography, defined as any pornographic material involving minors, is punishable by 1 to 5 years in prison. If these acts are done with the use of information technology, the punishment is 2 to 7 years. Unlawful accessing of child pornography through information technology is punished by 3 months to 3 years in prison or by a criminal fine.\n\nUnder current laws simple possession is illegal in Russia. The production, trade turnover of child pornography materials, as well as involvement underage individuals into production of such materials is punishable by deprivation of liberty for a term of 2 to 15 years.\n\nThe production, distribution, or possession of child pornography is prohibited in Slovakia; the penalties for breaking the law range from 2 to 20 years' imprisonment.\n\nThe law in Spain prohibits child pornography. The penal code criminalizes both using a minor \"to prepare any type of pornographic material\" and producing, selling, distributing, displaying, or facilitating the production, sale, dissemination, or exhibition, of \"any type\" of child pornography by \"any means\". Knowingly possessing child pornography is also penalized, carrying a potential prison sentence of up to 1 year. The penalty for the production, sale, or distribution of pornography in which a child under 18 years of age has been involved is imprisonment from 1 to 4 years or up to 8 years if the child is under 13.\n\nChild pornography is presumed to have been illegal prior to 1971. It was legal from 1971 to 1980, but now is illegal. The National Library of Sweden experienced a dispute regarding the alleged collection due to their legal obligation to archive all material printed on Swedish soil. This became publicized as activist groups Hand in Hand and Anhöriga till sexuellt utnyttjade barn became involved.\n\"The criminalization of possession of the drawings would otherwise exceed what is necessary with regard to the purpose which has led to the restriction on freedom of expression and freedom of information.\"\n\nProduction of child pornography is illegal in Switzerland. In July 2014, the legal age for actors participating in pornography in Switzerland was raised from 16 to 18.\n\nThe production, import, duplication, transportation, storage, export, presenting the same to other’s use, or possession of child pornography is illegal in Turkey.\n\nArticle 226 of Turkish Penal Code (Law Nr. 5237) states that \"Any person who uses children in production of indecent scenes, words or articles shall be punished with imprisonment from 5 to 10 years and a fine up to 5,000 days. Any person who engages in importation, duplication, transportation, storage or export of these products, possession, or presents the same to other’s use, shall be punished with imprisonment of 2 to 5 years and a fine up to 5,000 days.\"\n\nThe law in Ukraine does not prohibit simple possession of child pornography, but courts have the authority to limit access to websites which distribute child pornography and to impose financial penalties and prison sentences for those running the websites.\n\nNina Karpachova, the Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights, said in June 2011 that a significant amount of child pornography available on the Internet originates in Ukraine. It is believed the child pornography market in Ukraine is worth about $100 million per year.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it is illegal to take, make, distribute, show or possess an indecent image of a child under 18. Before 2003 it was illegal to take, make, distribute, show or possess an indecent image of a child under 16. The maximum sentence is 10 years' imprisonment for extreme cases, 5 years' imprisonment for high level cases, a summary conviction of 6 months' imprisonment and/or statutory maximum fine for lower level cases.\n\nActs such as possession, production and distribution of child pornography are illegal in Australia and can be punished by up to a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison and/or a $275,000 fine.\nPeople have been successfully prosecuted after describing acts of abuse via MMS. Operation Auxin in September 2004 led to the arrest of almost 200 people on charges of child pornography, and \"sting\" operations are common.\n\nIn December 2008, a Sydney man was convicted with possessing child pornography after sexually explicit pictures of children characters from The Simpsons were found on his computer. The NSW Supreme Court upheld a Local Court decision that the animated Simpsons characters \"depicted\", and thus \"could be considered\", real people.\n\nAlso in March 2011, a Tasmanian man was convicted with possessing child pornography after police investigators discovered an electronic copy of \"The Pearl\" by Anonymous on his computer. The Pearl is available for purchase within Australia and published by Harper Collins. The conviction was overturned on appeal.\n\nBrowsing for or attempting to privately gain access to child pornography is illegal in New Zealand and could possibly face up to 5 years in prison or a fine up to $NZ50,000. The production of child pornography as well as distribution carries stricter punishments. Distribution carries a penalty of up to 14 years in prison. Production of child pornography is considered a form of child sexual abuse under the criminal code of New Zealand which is punishable by up to 10 years' imprisonment or a fine up to $NZ200,000.\n\nThe law in the Republic of Palau does not prohibit child pornography.\n\nAll pornography, including child pornography, is illegal in Papua New Guinea. Pornographic websites are blocked in the country. The possession, sale, import and export of pornography is punishable by up to 6 months' imprisonment with a fine up to 1,000,000 kina. Child pornography is illegal in Papua New Guinea and punishable by 5 to 15 years' imprisonment and/or a fine up to 2 million kina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3330341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3330341", "title": "Lessons of the Masters", "text": "Lessons of the Masters\n\nLessons of the Masters is a 2004 book by George Steiner. It is part history, part analysis of the mentor-protégé relationship. From Socrates and Jesus to Husserl, Heidegger and Arendt, not leaving out Plotinus, Augustine, Shakespeare, Dante, Marlowe, Kepler, Wittgenstein, Nadia Boulanger and Simone Weil, Steiner shows how much is at stake in the passing on of wisdom and the risks involved.\n\nThe book is based on Steiner's Norton lectures.\n"}
{"id": "11834161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11834161", "title": "List of concerts at Parken Stadium", "text": "List of concerts at Parken Stadium\n\nThis is a list of the concerts or other musical events held at Parken Stadium in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\n\"(To sort the table by any column, click on the icon next to the column title.)\"\n\n"}
{"id": "438710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438710", "title": "List of fictional ships", "text": "List of fictional ships\n\nThis list of fictional ships lists artificial vehicles supported by water, which are either the subject of, or an important element of, a notable work of fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2982406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2982406", "title": "Manica (armguard)", "text": "Manica (armguard)\n\nA manica (, \"sleeve\") was a type of iron or bronze arm guard, with curved and overlapping metal segments or plates, fastened to leather straps, worn by Roman gladiators called crupellarii, and later by soldiers.\n\nAs early as Achaemenid times, there were references to \"cheires\" which consisted of hoops of metal that would be worn on the rein arm of a cavalryman. Hooped armour became extremely popular in the Saka, Parthian, and Kushan kingdoms and was used on both arms and legs. They can be seen at Khalchayan and on many pieces of Parthian artwork. In addition, two pieces were excavated at Taxila, dating to the 1st Century.\n\nRoman troops fought crupellarii in the revolt of Florus and Sacrovir of AD 21 . From Trajan's Dacian Wars come the only representational evidence for the use of the manica, and we do not know if its use in that campaign was widespread or rare. Manicae (along with metal greaves) are attested as a supplement to metal body armour on several reliefs depicting that campaign, including the Tropaeum Traiani at Adamclisi and Trajan's Column. \n\nThese extra pieces of armour may have been used as a protection against the Dacian falcēs, which were two-handed weapons which could hit with great force. Trajan's column in Rome seems to suggest that the lorica segmentata and the manica were only issued to Roman-born legionaries and not to auxiliaries. However, the Tropaeum Traiani, which is considered a better guide to the reality of field equipment, portrays Roman legionaries and heavy infantry auxiliaries equipped in the same fashion—both wearing scale body armour with manica arm guards.\n\nFinds identified as manicae have come from Newstead, Carnuntum, Richborough, Corbridge, Eining (Abusina) on the Danube frontier, Leon, Carlisle, and Ulpia Traiana Sarmizegeusa. A very well preserved manica was found in 2010/2011 in a soldiers barrack at the Roman castle of Steincheshof on the Rhine frontier. This manica dated from the last third of the first century to the first third of the second century. These suggest that the manica was in use by the Roman military during the 1st century AD, independent from the Dacian wars. The sculpture at Alba Julia provides evidence of the manica in use in the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD by the military. Ammianus describes Roman cavalry (probably cataphracts) on parade in AD 350 as \"Laminarum circuli tenues apti corporis flexibus ambiebant per omnia membra diducti.\" (Thin circles of iron plates, fitted to the curves of their bodies, completely covered their limbs). Around 400 AD, manicae are represented on the Column of Arcadius and in the Notitia Dignitatum.\n\nM.C. Bishop lists likely components as one shoulder plate, about 35 metal (ferrous or copper alloy) strips, 90-120 leathering rivets, 3 or 4 internal leathers, and one padded lining. The lining may have been a separate component, in order to avoid it being torn by the articulated metal plates. The metal strips were about 25 to 30 mm wide and 0.35 to 0.5 mm in thickness; they were longer at the top of the arm. Each strip had holes at its lower edge, through which flat-headed copper alloy rivets passed from the inside to hold the leather straps in place. It also had a hole punched at each end, which did not have a rivet and presumably served as an attachment point for an organic fastening. The lower few plates were in some cases riveted together, rather than articulated on leather. One depiction appears to show a manica terminating in a hand shape. \n\nThe usual arm position depicted for Roman swordsmen is with the upper arm vertical and close to the torso, the forearm extended horizontally with the thumb uppermost. The plates were probably not long enough to cover the whole circumference of the arm, but would have extended from the upper arm down to the thumb, leaving an unprotected area at the back. The plates overlapped upwards, directing any blow to the inside of the elbow which had a particularly dense coverage of multiple plates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "900165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900165", "title": "Munchkin (card game)", "text": "Munchkin (card game)\n\nMunchkin is a dedicated deck card game by Steve Jackson Games, written by Steve Jackson and illustrated by John Kovalic. It is a humorous take on role-playing games, based on the concept of munchkins (immature role-players, playing only to \"win\" by having the most powerful character possible).\n\n\"Munchkin\" won the 2001 Origins Award for \"Best Traditional Card Game\", and is itself a spin-off of \"The Munchkin's Guide to Powergaming\", a gaming humor book which also won an Origins Award in 2000.\n\nAfter the success of the original \"Munchkin\" game several expansion packs and sequels were published. Now available in 15 different languages, \"Munchkin\" accounted for more than 70% of the 2007 sales for Steve Jackson Games.\n\nIn \"Munchkin\", all players start at level 1, with the goal of reaching level 10 (or level 20 in Epic Level games). Players primarily progress by killing monsters, and level up every time they kill a monster. However, players can freely use cards against monsters and other players during play, allowing them to either assist or to sabotage others during their turn. Each person's turn begins when they \"kick down the door\" by drawing a Door Card face-up. A Door Card can be one of the following types: a Monster Card, which the player must engage by fighting or fleeing; a Curse Card, which applies an effect; or an Item Card, Race Card, or Class Card, which the player adds to their hand. If the card drawn is not a Monster Card, the player can either \"loot the room\" by drawing a face-down door card and adding it to their hand, or \"look for trouble\" by playing a Monster Card from their hand to fight it.\n\nWhen fighting a monster, the total level of the player (and any supporting players) is weighed against the total level of the monster(s) to determine the victor. A successful player draws the listed amount of treasure cards and levels up either 1 or 2 levels, but an unsuccessful character must roll the dice to try and flee; players who fail to roll a five or six suffer the monster's negative effects (\"Bad Stuff\") or die. Should a player die, their turn immediately ends and they discard their hand, retaining their player level but drawing a new hand for equipment.\n\nDue to the highly competitive nature of the game and the presence of rule-breaking cards, players are encouraged to use unfair tactics against others, to act mercenary to further themselves at the expense of others, or to use cheat cards to affect outcomes (such as fixing the roll of the die). Throughout a player's turn, others are free to intervene: they can passively buff or debuff the player or monsters to alter the outcome; play monster cards of matching types to make the battle more difficult; or offer to assist the player, typically in exchange for treasure cards.\n\nOther cards that can enter play include Items, which can be used in combat, Treasure Cards, which act as sellable loot and equipment, and Curse Cards, which apply effects. Additionally, players can equip certain cards (such as armor and weapons) to raise their total level and kill stronger monsters, and can use Class Cards and Race Cards to grant extra abilities or advantages at the cost of a balanced weakness; for example, the elf race can level when helping others kill monsters, but will take additional damage from disgusting enemies.\n\nStandard games typically last around an hour, with the game ending once a player reaches the target level and wins the match. Aside from defeating monsters, players can progress though indirect means such as selling cards (with every 1000 Gold on the sum total granting a level) or by playing special leveling cards. Most games disallow victory through indirect methods, meaning only fighting a monster can win the game. There are a few exceptions, however, such as when a player uses cards which specifically state they override rules.\n\nThese are themed \"box set\" editions of MUNCHKIN that have been released. (The overall theme parodied by each set is after the title.) Each is a stand-alone version that can be played separately or combined with any other version for a more expansive game. Some of these have been released in Deluxe versions (which include a gameboard and movers to keep track of levels) and/or Guest Artist Editions (drawn with new art by artists other than those who originally drew them). Certain versions have been co-produced with USAopoly and feature \"character cards\" that grant starting powers and keep track of levels. These games are denoted by a \"(U)\" after the description.\n\nThese are \"add-on\" sets not meant to be played separately, but in conjunction with the base sets of cards. These include fully boxed expansions (usually of 50+ cards) and \"booster packs\" (less than 50 cards). Some are set-specific, where others can be added to any set or may help combine game sets for an expanded gaming experience.\n\n\n(more to be added)\nIn addition, many Promo Cards have been released for the various sets. These are individual cards usually included with orders from the online store (Warehouse 23), available with special offers or given away at events by company & fan representatives (aka \"Men In Black\").\nThese are items that are Munchkin-themed, but not necessarily used in the main gameplay. Items so themed may include exclusive cards for certain games, and may also have in-game effects when kept near the play area. These include:\n\nA full listing of such accessories can be found on the WORLD OF MUNCHKIN web page.\nThese are games related to the \"Munchkin\" universe, but they do not follow the exact rules and goals of the traditional \"Munchkin\" card game. Some are card games and others are board games.\n\n\nMunchkin Treasure Hunt and Munchkin Wonderland are aimed at children ages 6 and up, allowing families with young children to be able to enjoy \"Munchkin\" games, while the other Munchkin-themed games are for ages 10 and up like all other \"Munchkin\" games.\n\nAn early review on RPGnet regards \"Munchkin\" as not a very serious game; the rules make this clear with phrases like \"Decide who goes first by rolling the dice and arguing about the results and the meaning of this sentence and whether the fact that a word seems to be missing any effect,\" and \"Any disputes in the rules should be settled by loud arguments with the owner of the game having the last word.\" There are many cards which interact with or are affected by a single other card, despite the rarity of the two cards entering play together (such as the interaction between \"Fowl Fiend\" and \"Chicken on Your Head\" or \"Sword of Slaying Everything Except Squid\" and \"Squidzilla\").\n\nOn \"BoardGameGeek\" the average user rating is 6/10.\nTom Vasel of The Dice Tower was critical of the game Munchkin feeling it was overpriced, had limited re-playability, and a poor and occasionally tedious gaming experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "23956541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23956541", "title": "National Open University", "text": "National Open University\n\nNational Open University (NOU; ) is an open university in Luzhou District, New Taipei, Taiwan. National Open University was established on August 1, 1986 along the lines of Great Britain's Open University. Although National Open University originally had entrance examinations, they were later abolished in 1997. Classes were originally conducted over a dedicated radio station, and television channel and internet classroom were later added. Today, National Open University is a full-service, distance learning university fully accredited by the Taiwanese government, and has an annual enrollment of 35,000 students.\n\nNational Open University is headed by a president. The University contain six academic departments.\n\n\nNOU is accessible within walking distance South East from Luzhou Station of Taipei Metro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30876817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876817", "title": "North by Northeast", "text": "North by Northeast\n\nNorth by Northeast (or NXNE) is an annual music and arts festival held each June in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The festival's main is live music, but it also includes a film festival, a comedy festival, art components, video game activities, and a digital interactive media conference. The festival events happen in a variety venues. NXNE is largely a volunteer-staffed music festival, with about 1,000 volunteers in festival operations. The alternative weekly newspaper \"Now\" is a major sponsor, and its owners hold an ownership interest in the festival.\n\nBeginning in 2016, a large venue in Toronto's Port Lands area for major events was added for two days of the festival.\n\nNXNE began in 1995, patterned on the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Texas. It was co-founded by Michael Hollett. The SXSW organization is a minority ownership partner in NXNE. At that time it was a three-day festival with about 300 bands, mainly local, unsigned, independent artists. Over the years the festival expanded its attendance and began to feature well-known performers. The festival events took place in a number of venues, and participants purchased wristbands for entry into the events.\n\nA film festival was added in 2001, screening primarily music-related features, documentaries and shorts. NXNE Film has screened films by directors such as Stewart Copeland (of rock band The Police), Don Letts, Guy Maddin, and Rob Heydon, and has hosted many world premieres, including Bruce McDonald's Broken Social Scene concert film, This Movie Is Broken, in 2010. Michael Tanner was the director of the festival. from 2007 to 2014.\n\nIn 2013, NXNE added comedy as a fourth stream, formally recognizing the growing number of standup, sketch, and improvisatory comics taking part in the festival since 2010. NXNE also added art as its fifth stream that year. including exhibits, projections, installations, performances and an art fair.\n\nIn 2014, NXNE marked its 20th consecutive year with over 1,000 music performers and an overall attendance of 350,000. The 2015 edition of NXNE ran for five days, June 17–21.\n\nIn 2016, under the direction of Michael Hollett, the festival organizers changed the format, concentrating more highly attended performances in a large venue in the Port Lands area, at 51 Commissioners St. The festival also added a video gaming component, and gaming was among the topics discussed at the one day Interactive conference at Ryerson University. As well as live music. Yonge Dundas Square provided festival-goers the chance to play on a giant screen and to compete against each other with live play-by-play commentary.\n\nEach year, NXNE Music presents hundreds of bands from Canada, the United States and around the world at about 50 Toronto music venues. Most venues host six bands each night (from 9 p.m. onward). The festival has many venues in Toronto's downtown core, along Queen Street West, College Street, and the Bloor Street Annex. NXNE Music provides a platform for emerging artists, and allows fans to see \"buzz bands\" at small club venues. There are free outdoor concerts at Yonge-Dundas Square in downtown Toronto, and in recent years there are also international headline acts, including The Flaming Lips, Ludacris, Devo, Iggy and the Stooges, Billy Talent, Social Distortion, Raekwon & Ghostface Killah, De La Soul, Bad Religion, Stars, The Pharcyde, The Raveonettes, GZA, Descendents, Digable Planets, and K-os.\n\nThe NXNE Interactive Conference (also known as NXNEi) takes place at the Hyatt Regency Hotel, which also serves as NXNE headquarters during the festival. Originally a music-industry event (past guests include Stewart Copeland, The Sex Pistols' Johnny Rotten, Steve Earle, Bruce Cockburn, Peaches, Patti Smith, Thomas Dolby, The Rolling Stones' Andrew Loog Oldham, and Bullmoose), the conference in recent years has become Interactive (NXNEi), and its presentations and panels have focused on the integration of technology with creativity in music, film, and other art forms. It is also a place where musicians, filmmakers, and industry reps can connect with digital innovators and tech leaders. In 2016 the conference was a one-day event at Ryerson University's Ted Rogers School of Business. Atari founder Nolan Bushnell, was the conference's keynote speaker.\n\n"}
{"id": "486164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486164", "title": "Pama–Nyungan languages", "text": "Pama–Nyungan languages\n\nThe Pama–Nyungan languages are the most widespread family of indigenous Australian languages, containing perhaps 300 languages. The name \"Pama–Nyungan\" is derived from the names of the two most widely separated groups, the Pama languages of the northeast and the Nyungan languages of the southwest. The words \"pama\" and \"nyunga\" mean \"man\" in their respective languages.\n\nThe other language families indigenous to the continent of Australia are occasionally referred to, by exclusion, as non-Pama–Nyungan languages, though this is not a taxonomic term. The Pama–Nyungan family accounts for most of the geographic spread, most of the Aboriginal population, and the greatest number of languages. Most of the Pama–Nyungan languages are spoken by small ethnic groups of hundreds of speakers or fewer. The vast majority of languages, either due to disease or elimination of their speakers, have become extinct, and almost all remaining ones are endangered in some way. Only in the central inland portions of the continent do Pama-Nyungan languages remain spoken vigorously by the entire community.\n\nThe Pama–Nyungan family was identified and named by Kenneth L. Hale, in his work on the classification of Native Australian languages. Hale's research led him to the conclusion that of the Aboriginal Australian languages, one relatively closely interrelated family had spread and proliferated over most of the continent, while approximately a dozen other families were concentrated along the North coast.\n\nEvans and McConvell describe typical Pama–Nyungan languages such as Warlpiri as dependent-marking and exclusively suffixing languages which lack gender, while noting that some non-Pama–Nyungan languages such as Tangkic share this typology and some Pama–Nyungan languages like Yanyuwa, a head-marking and prefixing language with a complicated gender system, diverge from it.\n\nProto-Pama–Nyungan may have been spoken as recently as about 5,000 years ago, much more recently than the 40,000 to 60,000 years indigenous Australians are believed to have been inhabiting Australia. How the Pama–Nyungan languages spread over most of the continent and displaced any pre-Pama–Nyungan languages is uncertain; one possibility is that language could have been transferred from one group to another alongside culture and ritual. Given the relationship of cognates between groups, it seems that Pama-Nyungan has many of the characteristics of a sprachbund, indicating the antiquity of multiple waves of culture contact between groups. Dixon in particular has argued that the genealogical trees found with many language families do not fit in the Pama-Nyungan family.\n\nUsing computational phylogenetics, Bouckaert, et al. (2018) posit a mid-Holocene expansion of Pama-Nyungan from the Gulf Plains of northeastern Australia.\n\nIn addition to Hale's 1982 list of words unique to Pama–Nyungan, and in addition to pronouns and case endings they reconstruct for the proto-language, Evans and McConvell report that while some of their roots are implausible, O'Grady and Tryon, nevertheless provide \"hundreds of clear cognate sets with attestations throughout the Pama–Nyungan area and absent outside.\"\n\nProto-Pama–Nyungan's phonological inventory, as reconstructed by Barry Alpher (2004), is quite similar to those of most present-day Australian languages.\n\nVowel length is contrastive only in the first (i.e. stressed) syllable in a word.\n\nProto-Pama–Nyungan seems to have had only one set of laminal consonants; the two contrasting sets (lamino-dental and lamino-alveopalatal or \"palatal\") found in some present-day languages can largely be explained as innovations resulting from conditioned sound changes.\n\nNevertheless, there are a small number of words where an alveopalatal stop is found where a dental would be expected, and these are written *cʲ. There is no convincing evidence, however, of an equivalent nasal *ɲʲ or lateral *λʲ\n\nPama–Nyungan languages generally share several broad phonotactic constraints: Single-consonant onsets, a lack of fricatives, and a prohibition against liquids (laterals and rhotics) beginning words. Voiced fricatives have developed in several scattered languages, such as Anguthimri, though often the sole alleged fricative is and is analyzed as an approximant by other linguists. The prime example is Kala Lagaw Ya, which acquired both fricatives and a voicing contrast in them and in its plosives from contact with Papuan languages. Several of the languages of Victoria allowed initial , and one—Gunai—also allowed initial and consonant clusters and , a trait shared with the Tasmanian languages across the Bass Strait.\n\nAt the time of the European arrival in Australia, there were some 300 Pama–Nyungan languages divided across three dozen branches. What follows are the languages listed in Bowern (2011); numbers in parentheses are the numbers of languages in each branch. These vary from languages so distinct they are difficult to demonstrate as being in the same branch, to near dialects on par with the differences between the Scandinavian languages.\n\nDown the east coast, from Cape York to the Bass Strait, there are:\n\nContinuing along the south coast, from Melbourne to Perth:\n\nUp the west coast:\n\nCutting inland back to Paman, south of the northern non-Pama–Nyungan languages, are\n\nEncircled by these branches are:\n\nSeparated to the north of the rest of Pama–Nyungan is\n\nSome of inclusions in each branch are only provisional, as many languages became extinct before they could be adequately documented. Not included are dozens of poorly attested and extinct languages such as \"Barranbinja\" and the \"Lower Burdekin languages\".\n\nA few more inclusive groups that have been proposed, such as \"Northeast Pama–Nyungan\" (Pama–Maric), \"Central New South Wales\", and \"Southwest Pama–Nyungan\", appear to be geographical rather than genealogical groups.\n\nBowern & Atkinson (2012) use computational phylogenetics to calculate the following classification:\n\nAccording to Nicholas Evans, the closest relative of Pama–Nyungan are the Garawan languages, followed by the small Tangkic family. He then proposes a more distant relationship with the Gunwinyguan languages in a macro-family he calls Macro-Pama–Nyungan. However, this has yet to be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the linguistic community.\n\nIn his 1980 attempt to reconstruct Proto-Australian, R. M. W. Dixon reported that he was unable to find anything that reliably set Pama–Nyungan apart as a valid genetic group. Fifteen years later, he had abandoned the idea that Australian or Pama–Nyungan were families. He now sees Australian as a Sprachbund (Dixon 2002). Some of the small traditionally Pama–Nyungan families which have been demonstrated through the comparative method, or which in Dixon's opinion are likely to be demonstrable, include the following:\n\n\nHe believes that Lower Murray (5 families and isolates), Arandic (2 families, Kaytetye and Arrernte), and Kalkatungic (2 isolates) are small \"Sprachbund\"s.\n\nHowever, the papers in Bowern & Koch (2004) demonstrate about ten traditional groups, including Pama–Nyungan, and its sub-branches such as Arandic, using the comparative method.\n\nIn his last published paper from the same collection, Ken Hale describes Dixon's skepticism as an erroneous phylogenetic assessment which is \"so bizarrely faulted, and such an insult to the eminently successful practitioners of Comparative Method Linguistics in Australia, that it positively demands a decisive riposte.\" In the same work Hale provides unique pronominal and grammatical evidence (with suppletion) as well as more than fifty basic-vocabulary cognates (showing regular sound correspondences) between the proto-Northern-and-Middle Pamic (pNMP) family of the Cape York Peninsula on the Australian northeast coast and proto-Ngayarta of the Australian west coast, some 3,000 km apart, (as well as from many other languages) to support the Pama–Nyungan grouping, whose age he compares to that of Proto-Indo-European.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44364067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44364067", "title": "Paradigm case argument", "text": "Paradigm case argument\n\nIn analytic philosophy, the paradigm case argument is an argument which is applied as a rebuttal to the claim that certain concepts, such as free will or knowledge, are meaningless. The paradigm case argument is that if a term, such as \"knowledge\", is regularly applied to some cases and not to others, then that term (and the concept it refers to) cannot truly be undefined, as it clearly has some kind of definition in practice. The argument is so named because it often takes the form of pointing out a \"paradigm case\"—a case which unambiguously falls under the common definition of the term, and so can be taken as a definite instance of the supposedly non-existent concept. This argument was commonly applied during the flourishing of linguistic philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "39155957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39155957", "title": "Redi Award", "text": "Redi Award\n\nRedi Award is an international science award given to scientists who have made significant contributions in toxinology, the scientific study of venoms, poisons and toxins. The award is sponsored by the International Society on Toxinology (ISI).\n\n\"Osservazioni intorno alle vipere\" (\"Observations about the Viper\") written by an Italian polymath Francesco Redi in 1664 is regarded as the milestone in the beginning of toxinology research. Redi was the first scientist to elucidate the scientific basis of snakebite and venom of the viper. He showed for the first time that the viper venom comes from the fang, not the gallbladder as it was believed; that it is not poisonous when swallowed, and effective only when it enters the bloodstream. He even demonstrated the possibility of slowing down the venom action in the blood by tight ligature before the wound. This work is heralded as the foundation of toxinology. In honour of the pioneer, the International Society on Toxinology (ISI) instituted the \"Redi Award\" in 1967 in recognition of scientists for their significant contributions in toxinology research.\n\nThe IST awards scientists or clinicians who have made outstanding contributions to the field of toxinology. The award is given at each World Congress of the Society, which is generally held every three years. It is the highest award bestowed by the society and the most prestigious in the world for toxinologists. Selection for the award is made by the Redi Award Committee chaired by the editor of \"Toxicon\" (the official journal of IST) and accompanied by past and present Executive Officers of the society and former Redi awardees. The result is only announced at the World Congress. The recipient is then invited to present a lecture of his/her own choosing, officially called the Redi Lecture, to the congress. The Award consists of a framed citation describing the merits of the awardee and a financial assistance to help cover expenses associated with attendance at the meeting.\n\nSource: International Society on Toxinology\n\nThe most recent recipient is Dr. Jose Maria Gutierrez Gutierrez, who was awarded at the 18th World Congress held at Oxford University from September 25–30, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1383549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1383549", "title": "Saramaccan language", "text": "Saramaccan language\n\nSaramaccan (autonym: \"Saamáka\") is a creole language spoken by about 58,000 ethnic African people near the Saramacca and upper Suriname River, as well as in the capital Paramaribo, in Suriname (formerly also known as Dutch Guiana), 25,000 in French Guiana, and 8,000 in the Netherlands. It has three main dialects. The speakers are mostly descendants of fugitive slaves who were native to West and Central Africa; they form a group called Saamacca, also spelled Saramaka.\n\nLinguists consider Saramaccan notable because its vocabulary is based on two European source languages, English (30%) and Portuguese (20%), and various West and Central African languages (50%), but it diverges considerably from all of them. The African component accounts for about 50% once ritual use is taken into account, the highest percentage in the Americas, and is derived from Niger–Congo languages of West Africa, especially Fon and other Gbe languages, Akan and Central African languages such as Kikongo.\n\nThe Saramaccan lexicon is largely drawn from English, Portuguese, and, to a lesser extent, Dutch, among European languages, and Niger-Congo languages of West Africa, especially Fon and other Gbe languages, Akan, and Central African languages, such as KiKongo. The African component accounts for about 50% of the total.\n\nSaramaccan phonology has traits similar to languages of West Africa. It has developed the use of tones, which are common in Africa, rather than stress, which is typical of European languages.\n\nOver a fourth of words are from English. It is generally agreed that the Portuguese influence originated from enslaved peoples who lived on plantations with Portuguese masters and possibly with other slaves who spoke a Portuguese creole. The masters might have brought the latter in migrating to Suriname from Brazil. Saramaccan originators began with an early form of Sranan Tongo, an English-based creole, and transformed it into a new creole via the Portuguese influx, combined with influence from the grammars of Fongbe and other Gbe languages.\n\nAn earlier idea that Saramaccan was an offshoot of a Portuguese pidgin that had been spoken by slaves who had learned it on the West African coast is no longer subscribed to by working creolists. See monogenetic theory of pidgins for more information.\nCertain common words in Sranan Tongo, the most common creole spoken in Suriname, also derive from Portuguese words, but it remains a largely English-based creole.\n\nSaramaccan is divided into three main dialects. The Upper Suriname River dialect and the Lower Suriname River dialect are both spoken by members of the Saramaccan tribe. The Matawari tribe has its own dialect.\n\nEach oral vowel also has a corresponding nasal vowel. There are also three vowel lengths: is \"red\", \"belly,\" \"bread.\"\n\n are more specifically dorso-postalveolar, but the palatal fricative is dorso-palatal.\n\nThe language has two surface tones: high and low. Stress in European words is replaced by high tone in Saramaccan.\n\nSaramaccan's vocabulary is 30% derived from English, 20% from Portuguese. It is one of the few known creoles to derive a large percentage of its lexicon from more than one source (most creoles have one main lexifier language). Also, it is said to be both an English-based creole and a Portuguese-based creole.\n\nAbout 50% of the vocabulary of Saramaccan is of African origin, the largest percentage of any creole in the Americas. Source languages for these words include Kikongo, Gbe languages, and Twi.\n\nTo English-speakers not familiar with it, the English basis of this language is almost unrecognizable. Here are some examples of Saramaccan sentences, taken from the SIL dictionary:\n\n\"De waka te de aan sinkii möön.\"<br>\"They walked until they were worn out.\"\n\n\"U ta mindi kanda fu dee soni dee ta pasa ku u.\"<br>\"We make up songs about things that happen to us.\"\n\n\"A suku di soni te wojo fëën ko bëë.\"<br>\"He searched for it in vain.\"\n\n\"Mi puu tu dusu kölu bai ën.\"<br>\"I paid two thousand guilders to buy it.\"\n\nExamples of words originally from Portuguese or a Portuguese creole are \"mujee\" (mulher) \"woman,\" womi (o homem) \"man,\" \"da\" (dar) \"to give,\" \"bunu\" (bom) \"good,\" \"kaba\" (acabar) \"to end\"; \"ku\" (com) \"with,\" \"kuma\" (como) \"as,\" \"faka\" (faca) \"knife,\" \"aki\" (aqui) \"here,\" \"ma\" (mas) \"but,\" \"kendi\" (quente) \"hot,\" \"liba\" (riba) \"above,\" and \"lio\" (rio) \"river.\"\n\nTwo books have now been published in Saamaka, at the request of the Saamaka people, who have distributed them in their schools: \"Fesiten\" and \"Boo go a Kontukonde\". Both have used the orthography that is now accepted by the Saamaka people, which was developed by Saamaka linguist Vinije Haabo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3639319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3639319", "title": "Siona people", "text": "Siona people\n\nThe Siona people (also known as Sioni, Pioje, or Pioche-Sioni) are an indigenous ethnic group living in the Ecuadorian Amazon or Oriente (est. population 250 in Ecuador (2000 Juncosa)), and in Putumayo Department in Colombia (est. population 300 in Colombia (1982 SIL)). They share territory along the Shushufindi, Aguarico, and Cuyabeno river with the Secoya people, with whom they are sometimes considered a single population.\n\nThe Siona language is a Tucanoan language.\n\nThe Siona people are organized politically through the National Organization of Seona Indigenous People of Ecuador (ONISE), whose president as of July 1996 was William Criollo.\n\nAccording to Richard Evan Schultes, Where The Gods Reign, p. 27, the \"Siona are one of the western Tukanoan groups and live in the Comissaria del Putamayo in the region of Mocoa.\" I lived in this area in the summer of 1961 with members of the Summer Institute of Linguistics. Our home was on the Ecuador side of the Putamayo River and the Siona lived on both sides of the river.\n\nThe Siona live in Sucumbios Province in Ecuador, mainly in the Cuyabeno Wildlife Reserve and in the Department of Putumayo along the Putumayo River. Besides some traditional activities for subsistence, they have been participating in the tourism activities since the 1990s. Nevertheless, their participation in the tourism sector has generated various sociocultural and economic changes such as immigration to neighboring cities, gender issues, economic dependency on tourism revenues.\n\n"}
{"id": "6227263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6227263", "title": "Suffering Man's Charity", "text": "Suffering Man's Charity\n\nSuffering Man's Charity, later released as Ghost Writer, is a 2007 comedy/horror film directed by Alan Cumming, written by playwright Thomas Gallagher, and starring Alan Cumming and David Boreanaz.\n\nJohn, an eccentric music teacher, takes in Sebastian, a younger writer, ostensibly in an effort to help him, but is really attracted to him. When Sebastian starts dating a woman and it becomes serious, John starts a fight that ultimately results in Sebastian's accidental death. John then finds the manuscript of Sebastian's surprising, unpublished book and decides to publish it as his own.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2900373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2900373", "title": "Terminus (poem)", "text": "Terminus (poem)\n\nTerminus is a poem written by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Emerson wrote the poem in the latter stages of his life. In it, he refers to how time is the limit of human life.\n"}
{"id": "8494888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8494888", "title": "The Hungry Hercynian", "text": "The Hungry Hercynian\n\n\"The Hungry Hercynian\" is a fantasy short story by American writer L. Sprague de Camp, part of his Pusadian series. It was first published in the magazine \"Universe Science Fiction\" for December, 1953, and first appeared in book form in the anthology \"The Spell of Seven\", edited by de Camp (Pyramid Books, 1965). It has also been translated into German, and was first brought together with other works of de Camp in the German collection \"Die Chronik von Poseidonis\" (Pabel, 1978).\n\nThe fugitive Gezun of Lorsk, seeking his fortune in the great city of Torrutseish, becomes enamoured of the slave girl Yorida. At his urging she flees with him from the house of her master, the wizard Derezong Taash, only to be kidnapped by the conspirator Lord Noish as a pawn in the latter's plot to attain the position of chief minister to the king. Noish intends to use the girl as a bribe to secure the aid of the cannibalistic Hercynian shaman Zyc. Gezun must somehow spirit her out of the clutches of the nefarious duo while there is still time. \n\nNoish successfully deposes Lord Haldu, the chief minister, using Zyc's magical truth drug, but then refuses payment to the wizard Bokari, who recommended Zyc, thus offending him. When Noish finally captures Yorida and delivers her to Zyc and his servant Kumo, the so-called Yorida is revealed to be a magical simulcrum. Enraged, Zyc and Kumo kill and eat Noish whilst Yorida remains more-or-less contentedly with Derezong and Gezun leaves for more profitable pastures. \n\nChronologically, \"The Hungry Hercynian\" is the fourth of de Camp's Pusadian tales, and the second to feature his protagonists Gezun of Lorsk, Derezong Taash, and Zhamel Seh.\n\nIn common with the other Pusadian tales, \"The Hungry Hercynian\" takes place in a prehistoric era during which a magic-based Atlantian civilization supposedly throve in what was then a single continent consisting of Eurasia joined with Africa, and in the islands to the west. It is similar in conception to Robert E. Howard's Hyborian Age, by which it was inspired, but more astutely constructed, utilizing actual Ice Age geography in preference to a wholly invented one. In de Camp's scheme, the legend of this culture that came down to classic Greece as \"Atlantis\" was a garbled memory that conflated the mighty Tartessian Empire with the island continent of Pusad and the actual Atlantis, a barbaric mountainous region that is today the Atlas mountain range.\n"}
{"id": "5174564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5174564", "title": "Truth-value link", "text": "Truth-value link\n\nThe principle of truth-value links is a concept in metaphysics discussed in debates between philosophical realism and anti-realism. Philosophers who appeal to truth-value links in order to explain how individuals can come to understand parts of the world that are apparently cognitively inaccessible (the past, the feelings of others, etc.) are called truth-value link realists.\n\nProponents of truth-value link realism argue that our understanding of past-tense statements allows us to grasp the truth-conditions of the statements, even if they are evidence-transcendent. They explain this by noting that it is unproblematic for us to conceptualize a present-tense true statement being true in the future. In other words, if \"It is raining today\" is true today, then \"It was raining yesterday\" will be true tomorrow. Truth-value link realists argue that this same construction can be applied to past-tense statements. For example, \"It was raining yesterday\" is true today if and only if \"It is raining today\" \"was\" true yesterday.\n\nThe truth-value link allows us to understand the following. First, suppose that we can understand, in an unproblematic way, truth about a present-tense statement. Assume that it is true, now, when one claims \"On 22 May 2006, Student X is writing a paper for her philosophy seminar,\" and call it statement A. Suppose that, a year later, someone claims, \"On 22 May 2006, Student X was writing a paper for her philosophy seminar,\" and call it statement B. According to Michael Dummett’s explication of the truth-value link, \"since the statement A is now true, the statement B, made in one year’s time, is likewise true.\" It is in understanding the truth-value link that one is able to understand what it is for a statement in the past-tense to be true. The truth-value persists in the tense shift – hence the \"link.\"\n\nSome philosophers, including Michael Dummett and John McDowell, have criticized truth-value link realism. They argue that it is unintelligible to suppose that training in a language can give someone \"more\" than what is involved in the training, i.e. access to inaccessible realms like the past and the minds of others. More important, they suggest that the realist appeal to the principle of truth-value links does not actually explain how the inaccessible can be cognized. When the truth-value link realist claims that, if \"It is raining today\" \"was\" true yesterday, then \"It was raining yesterday\" \"is\" true today, he or she is still appealing to an inaccessible realm of the past. In brief, one is attempting to access that which one has already conceded as being inaccessible.\n\n"}
{"id": "22265697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22265697", "title": "UNIMA", "text": "UNIMA\n\nUNIMA (\"Union Internationale de la Marionnette\" - \"International Puppetry Association\") was founded in Prague in 1929 (the then Czechoslovak magazine Loutkář was UNIMA's first official journal in years 1929-1930). In 1981, the French puppeteer Jacques Félix moved UNIMA's headquarters to Charleville-Mézières, France, location of the \"Festival Mondial des Théâtres de Marionnettes\" since 1972. UNIMA is affiliated to UNESCO and it is a member of the International Theatre Institute.\n\nThere are National centers throughout the world, which include:\n\nWorld congresses have been held in: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40229030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40229030", "title": "Volume (video game)", "text": "Volume (video game)\n\nVolume is an indie stealth-based video game developed by Mike Bithell Games. It was released for Microsoft Windows, OS X, and PlayStation 4 in August 2015, and the PlayStation Vita version in January 2016. The game uses stealth mechanics inspired by \"Metal Gear Solid\", allowing the player to plan courses of action to work through levels without being detected by guards, dogs, and automated security turrets to reach specific objectives. In addition to the game's levels, \"Volume\" supports user-made levels that can be shared with others. The game presents a modern take on the Robin Hood legend, where a young thief discovers a plot for a military coup involving various heists, and uses a device called \"Volume\" with the assistance of its artificial intelligence to perform these heists in a virtual manner and broadcasting them to the world at large to make the coup known. The story is presented with help of voice actors Charlie McDonnell, Danny Wallace, Dan Bull, Jim Sterling, and Andy Serkis.\n\n\"Volume\"s story is based on a modern take of the Robin Hood legend. Robert Locksley (voiced by Charlie McDonnell) is a petty thief that finds a device called \"Volume\", which allows the user to simulate heists that is part of a secret military \"coup\" attempt. The device has an artificial intelligence built into it named Alan (played by Danny Wallace) that acts as \"the Microsoft Office paperclip as a military training program\", according to Bithell, and guides Robert on how to use the device. Robert decides to use the device to broadcast the simulations of high-profile crimes across the Internet in the same manner as Let's Play videos. Locksley will face off against Guy Gisborne, played by Andy Serkis, re-envisioned for the game as the CEO of a company that has taken over the country of England and runs the nation as a corporatocracy.\n\nIt is hinted in-game that \"Volume\" is set in the same timeline as that of \"Thomas Was Alone\", also developed by Mike Bithell, but set after the events of that game.\n\n\"Volume\"s gameplay has been designed by Bithell similar to the stealth elements of the \"Metal Gear Solid\" series. The game is presented in a top-down third-person view of the Volume simulation, showing a floor layout, Robert's avatar, and several guards and other antagonists that patrol the area. Several different variety of guards exist, each which have different patterns of movement and how they respond to seeing the player-character; such guards include archers that have a long range of vision, rogues that can see in a full circle around them, dogs that work by sense of smell and track the player by proximity, and automated turrets that react much faster than other guards. When spotted, the player has a short amount of time to attempt to break the light of sight and take cover, otherwise the simulation will restart, either fully or at the most recent checkpoint that the player has crossed. Guards will behave in established patterns, and the player can disrupt these by making noise, such as flushing a toilet, or purposely cross their line of sight to draw them away from a patrol route. The player is unable to kill these foes, but over the course of the story, gain an arsenal of tools to distract them and avoid detection; once the player has one or more such tools, they can create a loadout for their character to select which gadgets they wish to take into a level.\n\nThe goal is to sneak through the level without being spotted to complete various heists. En route, the player needs to collect gems that are scattered through the level before the exit point will become available. Players are tracking on global leaderboards based on how fast they completed a level, with the game allowing players to revisit earlier levels to improve their times.\n\nThe game contains 100 story-based levels. Additionally, the game includes a level editor, allowing users to create their own simulated missions. Players are required to complete their own levels before uploading them to be shared with others.\n\nBithell's inspiration for \"Volume\" was directly from his earlier enjoyment of playing the \"Metal Gear\" games since a teenager. Though several other stealth games have come out since then, Bithell felt the newer games lost the \"purity\" of the stealth experience that \"Metal Gear\" provided.\n\nThe user-generation aspects for \"Volume\" were inspired by \"The Document of Metal Gear Solid 2\" that was on the \"\" disc, during which \"Metal Gear\" game designer, Hideo Kojima, designed prototypes of levels in real-life using Lego bricks. Bithell designed the in-game level editor to work similar to Lego, allowing the player to snap-in predesigned elements onto new or existing levels, including the game's core levels. Bithell hopes that \"Volume\" will have an active user-community that will continue to evolve the game over many years, similar to that of \"\" where the player community has continued to work on improving the game five years after release.\n\nBithell expected that \"Volume\" will still have a limited budget, compared to the he needed for \"Thomas Was Alone\", but the extra funding has been used to hire additional programming help and 3D modelers. On the New Years of 2014, Bithell had to be taken to a hospital due to overworking himself on \"Volume\". Following his treatment, he opted to bring on more staff to help complete the more-ambitious title, with a 15-man team by the game's completion. Some included his former colleagues at Blitz Games, where he had worked during the development of \"Thomas Was Alone\", and additional help came from members of Curve Digital who had previously ported \"Thomas\" to the PlayStation platforms. David Housden, who composed the \"Thomas\" soundtrack, will also create the music for \"Volume\".\n\nBithell announced the game in August 2013, using a carefully managed approach to assure the news was widely disseminated on a specific day, promising further announcements on its voice cast and story at future gaming conventions. \"Volume\" was originally planned to be a timed exclusive for the PlayStation 4 and Vita platform sometime in 2015, with the Windows and OSX releases set a month later. Later, the release was set to be simultaneous across all platforms on 18 August 2015; while the PlayStation 4, Windows, and OS X versions were released on this day, Bithell stated that the Vita version was delayed by a few weeks to better refine the title. Bithell later confirmed that the game would be released as a CrossBuy title for the Vita in January 2016, the additional time used to polish the game based on player feedback. The Vita version was released on 6 January 2016. A physical edition of the Vita version will be published by Limited Run, sometime in 2016.\n\nBithell had already worked with Danny Wallace from \"Thomas Was Alone\". For the role of Gisborne, Bithell had listed Andy Serkis high on his list of desired actors. Serkis has responded positively to Bithell's script, and they were able to arrange for his voice acting between Serkis' busy schedule. Bithell contends that Serkis brought \"a great amount of gravitas\" to the character to help flesh out the game. With Serkis' involvement, Bithell changed the character of Gisborne to better suit Serkis' acting style, making the character more fiendish than an evil genius.\n\nAn expansion, \"Volume: Coda\", has been announced to be released in 2016 alongside Sony's PlayStation VR (Virtual Reality) unit. The expansion will include 30 additional levels, and will enable the game to be played on the VR unit, though the VR unit will not be required. The new levels extend the game's story, following the trials of \"The Troubleshooter\", a person that was captured by the government forces after the actions of Locksley in the main story, and will include new voice actors for additional characters.\n\nOn March 17, 2016 it was announced that \"Volume\" will be receiving a limited physical release on the PlayStation Vita.\n\n\"Volume\" received mostly positive reviews. Aggregating review websites GameRankings and Metacritic gave the Microsoft Windows version 78.40% based on 21 reviews and 80/100 based on 33 reviews and the PlayStation 4 version 71.67% based on 12 reviews and 71/100 based on 15 reviews.\n"}
{"id": "50132445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50132445", "title": "Zangle", "text": "Zangle\n\nZangle is a student information system for schools and school districts to allow teachers to record students' academic progress in classes and for parents and students to check their grades, find assignments that will be due in the future, find past-due assignments, pay fees, as well as other information. The system features many modules that record various student data such as attendance, academic history, behavior and so on. It is popular among schools across the United States, and a bit in other locations. The system uses the Microsoft SQL database engine for data storage.\n\nZangle is a copyright of a company by the name Aequitas Solutions, Inc. Zangle was developed by a company named \"C Innovation\" that was acquired by Aequitas Solutions.\n"}
