{"id": "21323598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21323598", "title": "2009 cash for influence scandal", "text": "2009 cash for influence scandal\n\nThe 2009 cash for influence scandal (also cash for amendments or cash for laws) was a political scandal in the United Kingdom in 2009 concerning four Labour Party Life Peers offering to help make amendments to legislation for up to £120,000. The Lords Privileges Committee recommended the two men be suspended from the House for up to six months after an investigation into allegations made against four Labour peers. Lord Taylor of Blackburn was suspended as a Labour Party member pending the investigation while Lord Truscott quit the party. On 20 May, the House of Lords considered the report of the Privileges Committee and voted to suspend Lord Taylor and Lord Truscott for six months.\n\nThe suspensions were the first since Oliver Cromwell’s era in the 1640s. The previous member to be suspended from the House of Lords is believed to have been Thomas Savile, who was barred in 1642 for siding with King Charles I.\n\nThe allegations were made by \"The Sunday Times\" Insight team in an article published on Sunday, 25 January 2009. In a series of covert interviews, the four peers stated that they could use their political influence to amend legislation. The individuals concerned were Lord Snape, Lord Moonie, Lord Taylor of Blackburn and Lord Truscott. Six other peers either declined to help or did not respond to the undercover reporters' approach.\n\nThe newspaper claimed its reporters approached the four peers masquerading as lobbyists acting for an unnamed company. The firm, they said, wanted to set up a chain of shops in the UK and were seeking exemption from current laws on business rates.\nA recording was later released of Lord Taylor saying firms paid him up to £100,000 a year. Lord Taylor tells an undercover reporter: \"Some companies that I work with would pay me £100,000 a year.\" When the reporter questions it, he adds: \"That's cheap for what I do for them. And other companies would pay me £25,000.\"\n\nOn 30 January, The Sunday Times released further material via their website containing audio and video purporting to show Lord Truscott describing how the passage of legislation in both the House of Commons and House of Lords could be influenced and what part he could play in successfully facilitating amendments on behalf of paying clients.\n\nTwo of the fundamental principles set out in the Code of Conduct for the House of Lords are that members \"must never accept any financial inducement as an incentive or reward for exercising parliamentary influence\" and \"must not vote on any bill or motion, or ask any question in the House or a committee, or promote any matter, in return for payment or any other material benefit (the \"no paid advocacy\" rule).\"\n\nFollowing publication of The Sunday Times article, the Labour Party immediately promised an urgent investigation. The Leader in the House of Lords, Lady Royall said she had spoken to the four Labour peers concerned and would be \"pursuing the matter with utmost vigour\". She also said House of Lords members must \"abide by its high standards.\"\n\nIn a statement to the House of Lords on 26 January Lady Royall called the claims \"deeply shocking\". She pointed out that they were only allegations at this stage but said the claims had been \"damaging not just to this House but to Parliament and politics\". She said the matter had been referred to the Lords Interests sub committee (a sub committee of the Committee for Privileges), which had already met and investigations were underway. She said she believed \"tougher sanctions\" were needed to deal with peers who broke the rules and she had written to the chairman of the Committee on Standards and Privileges to ask him to review the matter.\n\nOn 26 January, two of the four peers made statements in The House of Lords. Lord Snape told The House \"As one of the people involved in this incident may I first of all apologise for bringing this House, if I have done so, into disrepute. But may I say that these are allegations in a Sunday newspaper and may I appeal to noble lords in all parts of the House to allow me the opportunity to refute these allegations before your lordships house and elsewhere.\"\n\nLord Taylor stated \"If I have done anything that has brought this House into disrepute I most humbly apologise. I feel within my own conscience I followed the rules and the directions that have been given in this House over the 31 years I have been a member.\"\n\nLord Truscott told the BBC he did admit to having had \"discussions\" with a reporter, but said that \"to suggest I would offer to put down amendments for money is a lie.\"\n\nLord Moonie acknowledged discussing a fee of £30,000 but said he had not done anything \"outside the rules\".\n\nThe Conservative Party leader in the Lords, Lord Strathclyde, said the allegations represented a \"shocking and depressing moment\" for the House of Lords. \"This House has been mired in a grim torrent of criticism about a culture of sleaze,\" he told peers. \"If these allegations are true those involved have shamed this House,\" he said, adding there were no \"grey areas in the paid advocacy rules\".\n\nPrime Minister Gordon Brown said: \"It's important that we don't pre-judge these investigations but these are serious allegations and we are determined to get to the bottom of these allegations, and whatever action needs to be taken will be taken.\"\n\nThe Liberal Democrats wrote to Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson asking for an investigation to take place.\n\nSNP MP Angus MacNeil, whose complaint started the \"cash for honours\" called for the four peers to be suspended, while an investigation is carried out.\n\nThe House of Lords Sub-committee on Lords' Interests was asked to report on the matter. It found that Lord Moonie had not expressed a willingness to breach the code, but that Lord Snape, Lord Truscott and Lord Taylor had all done so. Truscott and Taylor were additionally found to have failed to act on their personal honour.\n\nThe Lords' Privileges Committee considered the sub-committee's report and heard further evidence from Lord Snape. It published its findings on 14 May 2009. It found that Lord Moonie and Lord Snape had not breached the code, but that Lord Truscott and Lord Taylor had done, and recommended that they be suspended.\n\nOn 29 January 2009 it was confirmed that Police were looking at the allegations following the complaint by the Liberal Democrats.\nOn 11 February 2009 the Metropolitan Police confirmed that no action would be taken, noting that \"The application of the criminal law to members of the House of Lords in the circumstances that have arisen here is far from clear,\" and that \"In addition, there are very clear difficulties in gathering and adducing evidence in these circumstances in the context of parliamentary privilege.\" \n"}
{"id": "42098138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42098138", "title": "2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine", "text": "2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine\n\nFrom the end of February 2014, demonstrations by pro-Russian and anti-government groups took place in major cities across the eastern and southern regions of Ukraine, in the aftermath of the Euromaidan movement and the 2014 Ukrainian revolution. During the first stage of the unrest, Crimea was annexed by the Russian Federation after a Russian military intervention, and an internationally criticized (based on UN resolution 68/262) Crimean referendum. Protests in Donetsk and Luhansk regions (oblasts) escalated into an armed pro-Russian separatist insurgency. From late 2014, cities outside of the Donbass combat zone, such as Kharkiv, Odessa, Kiev and Mariupol, were struck by bombings that targeted pro-Ukrainian unity organizations. To maintain control over southeastern territories Ukraine's government started \"antiterrorist operation\" (ATO) sending armed forces to suppress separatists. Armed conflict between Ukraine's government forces and pro-Russian rebels is known as War in Donbass.\n\nUkraine became gripped by unrest when President Viktor Yanukovych refused to sign an association agreement with the European Union on 21 November 2013. An organized political movement known as 'Euromaidan' demanded closer ties with the European Union, and the ousting of Yanukovych. This movement was ultimately successful, culminating in the February 2014 revolution, which removed Yanukovych and his government. However, some people in largely Russophone eastern and southern Ukraine, the traditional bases of support for Yanukovych and his Party of the Regions, did not approve of the revolution, and began to protest in favour of closer ties with Russia. Various demonstrations were held in Crimea in favour of leaving Ukraine and accession to the Russian Federation, leading to the 2014 Crimean crisis.\n\nOn 1 March, regional state administration (RSA) buildings in various eastern Ukrainian oblasts were briefly occupied by pro-Russian activists. By 11 March, all occupations had ended, after units of the local police and the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) re-took the buildings. In Donetsk, protests escalated into violence on multiple occasions, including on 13 March, when a pro-Ukrainian protester was stabbed to death. In Kharkiv, Patriots of Ukraine militants killed an anti-Maidan protester and a passer-by on the night of 15 March, when anti-Maidan protesters attacked the Right Sector headquarters in the city.\n\nThe attendees of the protests included Russian citizens from across the border who came to support the efforts of pro-Russian activists in Ukraine. Donetsk oblast governor Serhiy Taruta said that rallies in Donetsk contained ex-convicts and others who travelled from Crimea. Ukraine's police and border guards had denied more than 8,200 Russians entry into Ukraine between 4 and 25 March. On 27 March, National Security and Defence Council Secretary Andriy Parubiy said that between 500 and 700 Russians were being denied entry daily.\n\nOn 17 April, during the twelfth \"Direct Line with Vladimir Putin\" programme, the use of the Russian Armed Forces in Crimea, along with Crimean self-defence troops, was avowed by the Russian president, but he denied claims by the Ukrainian government, the European Union, and the United States, that Russian Special Forces were fomenting unrest in eastern Ukraine.\n\nA poll conducted by Kyiv International Institute of Sociology (KIIS) from 8–18 February 2014 assessed support for union with Russia throughout Ukraine. It found that, overall, 12% of those polled favoured union with Russia. 68.0% of those from the four regions surveyed agreed that Ukraine should remain independent, with friendly relations maintained between Russia and Ukraine.\n\nSupport for a union between Russia and Ukraine was found to be much higher in certain areas:\n\nIn an opinion poll conducted from 14–26 March by the International Republican Institute, 26–27% of those polled in southern and eastern Ukraine viewed the Euromaidan protests as a coup d'état. Only 5% of respondents in eastern Ukraine felt that Russian-speakers were 'definitely' under pressure or threat. 43% of ethnic Russians ('definitely' or 'rather') supported the decision of the Russian Federation to send its military to protect Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine.\n\nIn the poll, 22% of those in southern Ukraine, and 26% of those in eastern Ukraine supported the idea of federalization for the country; 69% of southerners and 53% of easterners supported Ukraine remaining as a unitary state; and only 2% of southerners and 4% of easterners supported separatism. 59% of those polled in eastern Ukraine would like to join the Russian-led customs union, while only 22% were in favour of joining the European Union. 37% of southerners would prefer to join this customs union, while 29% were in favour of joining the EU. 90% of those polled in western Ukraine wanted to enter an economic union with EU, while only 4% favoured the customs union led by Russia. Among all the Ukrainians polled overall, 34% favour joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, while 44% are against joining it. In eastern Ukraine and southern Ukraine, only 14% and 11% of the respondents respectively favour joining NATO, while 67% in eastern Ukraine and 52% in southern Ukraine oppose joining it. 72% of people polled in eastern Ukraine thought that the country was going in the wrong direction, compared with only 36% in western Ukraine.\n\nA poll conducted by the Institute of Social Research and Policy Analysis analysed the identities of Donetsk inhabitants. While support for separatism was low, just over a third of polled Donetsk inhabitants identified themselves as \"citizens of Ukraine\". More preferred \"Russian-speaking residents of Ukraine\" or \"residents of Donbass\". The same poll determined that 66% of Donetsk residents that were polled supported remaining in a unified Ukraine, while 18.2% supported joining Russia, and 4.7% supported independence. A second poll conducted from 26–29 March showed that 77% of residents condemned the takeover of administrative buildings, while 16% supported such actions. Furthermore, 40.8% of Donetsk citizens supported rallies for Ukraine's unity, while 26.5% supported pro-Russian rallies.\nIn another research poll conducted 8–16 April by KIIS, a vast majority disapproved of the seizure of administrative buildings by protesters. Over 50% of those polled in southern and eastern Ukraine considered acting President Oleksandr Turchynov to be illegitimate. Most of those polled in southern and eastern Ukraine believed that the disarmament and disbandment of illegal radical groups is crucial to preserving national unity. 19.1% of those polled in southern and eastern Ukraine believed that Ukraine should be an independent state, 45.2% were for an independent state but with decentralization of the power to the regions, but most felt Russia and Ukraine should share open borders without visa restrictions; 8.4% were in favour of Ukraine and Russia uniting into a single state. 15.4% said they favoured secession of their region to join the Russian Federation, and 24.8% favoured Ukraine becoming a federation. Most of those polled said they found nothing attractive about Russia, but those who did, did so for economic, and not cultural reasons. Those polled in southern and eastern Ukraine were generally split on the legitimacy of the present government and parliament, but a majority in all regions agreed that deposed president Viktor Yanukovych was not the legal president of the country. In all regions but the Donbass, pro-Euromaidan oligarch Petro Poroshenko dominated preliminary election polls.\n\nA comprehensive poll released on 8 May by the Pew Research Centre surveyed opinions in Ukraine and Crimea on the subject of the unrest. The poll was taken after the annexation of Crimea, but prior to the clashes in Odessa on 2 May. 93% of westerners and 70% of easterners polled said that they wanted Ukraine to remain united. Despite international criticism of 16 March referendum on Crimean status, 91% of those Crimeans polled thought that the vote was free and fair, and 88% said that the Ukrainian government should recognize the results.\n\nDuring the Euromaidan revolution there were widespread reports that pro-Yanukovych and pro-Russian 'anti-Maidan' protesters were paid for their support. Oleksiy Haran, a political scientist at Kyiv Mohyla Academy in Kiev has stated that: \"People at anti-Maidan stand for money only. The government uses these hirelings to provoke resistance. They won't be sacrificing anything\". Russian leader of the extremist Eurasian Youth Union Oleg Bakhtiyarov was arrested for, in part, recruiting rioters for 500 US dollars each to assist in the storming of government buildings. On 13 April, the Internal Affairs Ministry stated that recruiters were found to be paying 500 US dollars to take part in the attacks, and roughly 40 US dollars to occupy buildings.\n\nReports of paid protesters were supported by Party of Regions member Volodymyr Landik, the First Deputy Prime Minister Vitaliy Yarema, journalist Serhiy Leshchenko, and a report released by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe.\n\nRussian and Ukrainian sources differed greatly in the way they portrayed the demonstrators. Militants who took over government buildings in Donetsk Oblast were consistently labeled as \"separatists\" and \"terrorists\" by the Ukrainian government and the western media, whilst Russian media and officials referred to as \"supporters of federalization\". Russian media and the militants themselves referred to the Ukrainian transitional government in Kiev as the \"Bandera junta\", referencing the Ukrainian nationalist Stepan Bandera, and also as \"fascist\", and \"nationalist\". In the Ukrainian media, \"Colorado beetle\" () was used as a derogatory word for the pro-Russian demonstrators and militants, in reference to the Ribbon of St George they wore. Various Russian news media outlets used the term \"Russian Spring\" () to describe the wave of demonstrations.\n\nBeginning on 26 February, pro-Russian forces, subsequently confirmed to be Russian troops by Vladimir Putin, began to gradually take control of the Crimean Peninsula. During this time, the question of joining the Russian Federation was put to a referendum, which had an official turnout of 83 per cent and resulted in a 96% affirmative vote but has been condemned by the EU, the United States, Ukrainian and Crimean Tatar officials as contrary to Ukraine's constitution and to international law. On 17 March, the Crimean Parliament declared independence from Ukraine and asked to join the Russian Federation. On 18 March, Russia and Crimea signed a treaty of accession of the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol into the Russian Federation. On 21 March, the accession treaty was ratified and the establishment of two new constituent entities in the Russian Federation was marked by a 30 gun salute under an executive order of the Russian President. The U.N. General Assembly passed a non-binding resolution that declared that the referendum was invalid, and the incorporation of Crimea into Russia as illegal.\n\nBy 1 April, around 3,000 people had fled Crimea after its annexation. 80% of those who fled were Crimean Tatars. Teams from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe in Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast and Chernivtsi Oblast have assisted internally displaced persons who have resettled in western Ukraine from Crimea. Numbers of refugees, primarily Crimean Tatars, continued to rise, and by 20 May the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said that about 10,000 people had been displaced.\n\nPro-Russian protesters occupied the Donetsk regional state administration (RSA) building from 1 to 6 March, before being removed by the Security Service of Ukraine.\n\nAccording to the Ukrainian government, the seizure of RSA buildings by pro-Russian forces was part of \"a script\" which was \"written in the Russian Federation\" to destabilize Ukraine, carried out by \"about 1,500 radicals in each region who spoke with clear Russian accents\".\n\n13 March was marked by violent clashes between pro-Maidan and anti-Maidan protesters in Donetsk. A large group of anti-Maidan protesters broke through a police cordon and began to attack a smaller pro-Maidan demonstration. In interviews with OSCE monitors, bystanders described how a group of around thirty pro-Maidan protesters \"were forced to seek shelter in a police bus that became surrounded by anti-Maidan attackers\". The windows of the bus \"were smashed, and irritant gas was dispersed inside, forcing the group to exit the bus, where they were then subjected to beatings and verbal abuse\". A report by the OSCE said that \"police forces\" failed \"to take adequate measure to protect the pro-Maidan assembly\", and \"could be observed treating the anti-Maidan protesters in a favourable manner\". A local pro-Maidan activist was killed by anti-Maidan protesters during the clashes. After this day of violence, interviewees told the OSCE that residents of Donetsk had decided not to organize more peaceful pro-Maidan demonstrations, \"out of fear for their safety\".\n\nOn Sunday, 6 April, 1,000–2,000 pro-Russia protesters attended a rally in Donetsk pushing for a Crimea-style referendum on independence from Ukraine. Subsequently, 200 separatists (according to Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for Donetsk local police, about 1,000) and pro-Russian protesters stormed and took control of the first two floors of the RSA building, breaking down doors and smashing windows. The administration headquarters were empty, with only guards inside, as government officials would not work there on Sundays. The separatists demanded that if an extraordinary session was not held by officials, announcing a referendum to join Russia, they would declare unilateral control by forming a \"People's Mandate\" at noon on 7 April, and dismiss all elected council members and MPs. The people who voted within the RSA were not elected to the positions they assumed. According to the Information Telegraph Agency of Russia, the declaration was voted on by some regional legislators, however other reports say that neither the Donetsk city administration nor local district councils in city neighbourhoods delegated any representatives to the session.\n\nOn 6 April, the leaders of the separatist group Donetsk Republic announced that a referendum, on whether Donetsk Oblast should \"join the Russian Federation\", would take place \"no later than 11 May 2014.\" Additionally, the group's leaders have appealed to Russian President Vladimir Putin to send Russian peacekeeping forces to the region The group has been banned in Ukraine since 2007. The group's leader, Andrei Purgin, was arrested weeks prior on charges of separatism. The political leader of the state is the self-declared People's Governor Pavel Gubarev, a former member of the Progressive Socialist Party of Ukraine. who is also currently arrested on charges of separatism.\n\nIn response to the actions, acting Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov vowed to launch a major counter-terrorism operation against separatist movements in the country's eastern regions. Later that day, the SBU office in Donetsk was retaken by SBU Alpha Group. Turchynov has offered amnesty to the separatists if they lay down their arms and surrender, and has also offered concessions that include potential devolution of power to regions, and the protection of the Russian language in law. Many in Donetsk have expressed disapproval toward the actions of the separatists.\n\nOn 12 April, a group of masked militants, which was formed in Crimea and led by former officer of Russian security services Igor Girkin, captured the executive committee building, the police department and SBU office in Sloviansk, a city in the northern part of the Donetsk Oblast. Ukrainian Internal Affairs Minister Arsen Avakov labelled the gunmen as \"terrorists\", and swore to use the Ukrainian special forces to retake the building.\n\nSeizures of police stations and other government buildings by armed separatist groups also occurred in other cities in Donetsk Oblast, including Donetsk City proper, Kramatorsk, Druzhkivka, Horlivka, Mariupol and Yenakiieve. Ukrainian transitional president Oleksandr Turchynov launched a full-scale 'anti-terror' military operation to reclaim the buildings.\n\nVitaliy Yarema, the Ukrainian vice prime minister for law enforcement, alleged that Russian Special Forces units, including the 45th Parachute Guards Regiment usually stationed near Moscow, were operating on Ukrainian territory in the cities of Kramatorsk and Sloviansk. On 16 April, the alleged number of Russian special forces troops was 450.\nBy 16 April, the 'anti-terror' operation being conducted by the Ukrainian government in Donetsk Oblast had hit some stumbling blocks. Protesters seized Ukrainian armoured vehicles in Kramatorsk, and sent soldiers away in Sloviansk.\n\nDuring the night of 16 April, about 300 pro-Russian protesters attacked a Ukrainian military unit in Mariupol, throwing petrol bombs. Internal Affairs Minister Arsen Avakov said that troops were forced to open fire, resulting in the killing of three of the attackers.\n\nThe Geneva Statement of 17 April did not result in the end of the government building occupations in Donetsk Oblast. Two pro-Russian groups in Mariupol said that they 'felt betrayed' by the action taken in Geneva. A truce declared for Easter Sunday was broken by an attack upon a separatist checkpoint in Sloviansk, further inflaming tensions.\n\nThe situation remained tense on 23 April, with occupation of government buildings ongoing throughout the region. OSCE monitors observed that the city administration building, SBU building, and police station in Sloviansk remained heavily fortified by armed groups of men with masks and automatic weapons. The city remained quiet, with no protests occurring. However, the monitors believed that the city remained under heavy surveillance, both by people in uniforms and masks, but also by many persons in civilian clothing. One resident said that people in Sloviansk were afraid to discuss their opinions of the occupiers.\nOn 24 April, Ukrainian forces made a series of 'probing attacks' into Sloviansk against the insurgents. The self-proclaimed separatist mayor of the city, Vyacheslav Ponomarev, declared in response that 'We will make Stalingrad out of this town'. The Ukrainian government then stated on 25 April that it would 'fully blockade the city of Sloviansk', and continue with the 'anti-terror' operation. Amid the increasing tensions, separatists in Sloviansk detained seven international monitors on an OSCE military verification mission in Ukraine, who had been travelling into the city on a bus, along with the bus driver and five accompanying Ukrainian soldiers. The journalists were being held at the occupied SBU building. Access to the city remained unrestricted despite the supposed Ukrainian army blockade, with separatist barricades manned by fewer people then on previous days. Local residents said that the separatist administration in Sloviansk provided no administrative services to citizens.\n\nLeaflets released by the Donetsk People's Republic were distributed on 26 April, notifying citizens of a referendum on the question of whether or not they support the proclamation of \"state sovereignty\" by the Republic to be held on 11 May. In the morning on the next day, two members of the OSCE special monitoring mission were held by a group of unarmed men from the Donbass People's Militia in Yenakiieve. They were taken to the occupied city hall, questioned, and then released after a letter sent by the mission's office in Kiev confirmed the credentials of the monitors. A large pro-government rally in Donetsk city marched in protest against the violence in Donetsk Oblast, and the attempted assassination of Kharkiv mayor Hennadiy Kernes on 28 April. The rally was swiftly and violently broken up by separatists armed with baseball bats, iron rods, firecrackers and shields.\n\nA new counter-offensive by government forces on Sloviansk during the early morning of 2 May resulted in the downing of two government helicopters, and some casualties on both sides. As a result, Ukrainian forces gained control of all separatist checkpoints, and of half the city. President Oleksandr Turchynov said that many separatists were \"killed, injured and arrested\". In the early morning on the next day, the counter-offensive then targeted to Kramatorsk, and Andriivka. Serious fighting resulted in the recapture of the occupied buildings in Kramatorsk by government forces, and at least ten separatists were said to have been killed in Andriivka.\n\nAs fighting continued in Donetsk Oblast, all of the international military monitors who had been held in Sloviansk were released by Vyacheslav Ponomaryov on 3 May. On the same day, protesters in the city of Donetsk stormed and occupied the chairman of the regional government's private business office and the SBU building, smashing windows and ransacking files as an act of revenge for the clashes in Odessa.\n\nKramatorsk was reoccupied by militants on 4 May, and Sloviansk saw renewed fighting on 5 May, resulting in the deaths of four Ukrainian soldiers. Fierce fighting took place in Mariupol from 5 May. Posters plastered on the occupied city administration read \"OSCE get out\" or \"OSCE you cheat\". As part of the counter-offensive, government forces recaptured the building on 7 May, but then left it, allowing for the separatists to quickly re-occupy it.\n\nOccupied buildings in Donetsk had been heavily fortified by 6 May, and Donetsk International Airport was closed to all traffic. The regional television broadcasting centre remained occupied by about thirty camouflaged insurgents with AK-47s. A BTR-70 was parked outside building, along with barricades made of sandbags and tyres. A similar presence was observed at the RSA building.\n\nOn 7 May, Russian president Vladimir Putin asked the separatists to delay the planned 11 May referendum on the status of Donetsk. Denis Pushilin, the leader of the Donetsk People's Republic, said that the referendum would not be delayed. In response, Ukrainian transitional prime minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk referred to Putin's words \"hot air\", and vowed that the counter-offensive in Donetsk would continue.\n\nA large skirmish erupted in Mariupol on 9 May, when government troops launched an attack on a police station in the city, resulting in the killing of at least twenty people. These were described by the Ukrainian government as \"militants\" and \"terrorists\", though some local residents said that they were unarmed protestors.\n\nThe disputed referendum on the status of Donetsk Oblast was held on 11 May. According to representatives of the Donetsk People's Republic, 89% voted in favour of self-rule, and 10% voted against. Turnout was said to be 75%. OSCE monitors did not observe the referendum, as the situation in Donetsk after the skirmish in Mariupol was said to be \"volatile\", forcing them to restrict their operations in the region. After the results were announced, leader of the Republic Denis Pushilin said that \"all Ukrainian military troops in the region would be considered occupying forces\". In response to the perceived weakness of the Ukrainian army, some Ukrainians who oppose the insurgents formed the \"Donbass Volunteer Battalion\", modelled on the Ukrainian partisan groups that fought against both the German Reich and the Soviet Union during the Second World War.\n\nSteelworkers and security guards from Metinvest, along with local police, began joint patrols in the city of Mariupol on 15 May. These groups forced the insurgents out of the buildings that they had been occupying. A representative of Mariupol supporters of the Donetsk People's Republic, Denis Kuzmenko, was party to a deal which led to this vacation of buildings by the insurgents, but a local commander of those insurgents who had been occupying the building said that \"someone is trying to sow discord among us, someone has signed something, but we will continue our fight\", and that \"everyone ran away\". Steelworkers could be seen removing barricades from the city centre, and also cleaning up the burnt city administration building. By the morning of 16 May, Associated Press journalists could find no trace of the insurgents in Mariupol city centre. On 16 May, however, it seemed that separatists were not banished from the city, as reporters from the \"Washington Post\" said that about a hundred pro-Russian activists gathered on the steps of the city administration building, and that the separatist flag continued to fly over it.\n\nRinat Akhmetov, oligarch and owner of Metinvest, called for non-violent protests against the separatists in Donbass on 19 May. In response to this call, cars gathered in front of the Donetsk RSA building and continually honked their horns. OSCE monitors said that some elderly people threw stones and water bottles at the cars as they passed by the RSA. Another group of thirty people outside the RSA chanted the slogan \"Akhmetov is an enemy of the people\" while holding banners that said \"Akhmetov is a thief and is a supporter of fascism\" and \"Are you a slave to Akhmetov?\"\n\nThe confederal state of Novorossiya was proclaimed by Pavel Gubarev on 22 May, incorporating both the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic. \"New Russia\" () hearkens back to a term used by the Russian Empire to refer to modern eastern and southern Ukraine. A few days later, on 26 May, a heated battle broke out between separatist insurgents that had been in control of Donetsk International Airport, and Ukrainian government forces. Around fifty insurgents were killed in the fighting, which resulted in their losing control of the airport. Chechen paramilitaries, along with others from Russia, fought Ukrainian forces during the battle. According to Artur Gasparian, a member of the insurgent unit that had been holding airport, the majority of the separatists' losses were due to friendly fire.\n\nMembers of the Vostok battalion, the pro-Russian insurgent group that fought Ukrainian forces at the airport, took control over the Donetsk RSA building on 28 May, and removed the leaders of the Donetsk People's Republic. Participants in the action said that it was an \"emergency measure\" to halt \"a sharp rise in looting and crime, as well as disorder within leadership\". They were seen clearing barricades and rubbish left by those previously in control of the building.\n\nFighting continued through the month of June. As part of Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko's fifteen-point peace plan, a frequently broken ceasefire spanned from 20 June until the 30th. A renewed government offensive after the ceasefire broke down resulted in heavy losses for the separatists, forcing them to withdraw from northern Donetsk Oblast, including many cities that had been under their control since April, such as Sloviansk, Druzhkivka, Kostyantynivka, and Kramatorsk. Heavy fighting continued in the following months, until the signing of the Minsk Protocol in early September, which established a ceasefire.\n\nThere have been a number of attacks on members of the press by members of the separatists in Donetsk. On 10 April, protesters outside the Donetsk RSA attacked Belarusian journalists for speaking the Belarusian language, and not Russian; Ukrainian journalists were forced to speak Russian to avoid angering pro-Russian protesters. According to \"Kyiv Post\", they also attacked reporters from Russia Today, but RT did not carry the story. Days later on 12 April, a group of 150 people supported the armed militants outside the police station in Sloviansk were hostile to journalists, telling them to \"go back to Kiev.\"\n\nAn unknown man set the car of the editor-in-chief of the \"News of Donbass\" on fire. The editor had been receiving anonymous threats from the separatists. On 19 April, the offices of a local newspaper \"Pro Gorod\" in Torez, south-east of Donetsk, were set on fire.\n\nSeparatists torched the offices of the newspaper \"Provintsia\" in Kostiantynivka on 23 April, after previously harassing newspaper staff and labelling them as members of the 'Right Sector movement'. Stepan Chirich, a Belarusian reporter with the Russian NTV channel disappeared in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. Another journalist, Evgenii Gapich, a photographer for the \"Reporter\" newspaper from Ivano-Frankivsk disappeared in Horlivka. His whereabouts are unknown, but allegedly he has been held in detention by separatist forces in Sloviansk. Furthermore, Simon Ostrovsky, a journalist with Vice News, was captured by unidentified people in uniform in Sloviansk, and released after four days.\n\nA report by Human Rights Watch criticized the Ukrainian government for \"the serial arrests of Russian journalists in Ukraine\".\n\nIn protest against the proposed cancelling of the regional language law, the regional administration of Luhansk Oblast voted to demand that the Russian language be given official language status. They also demanded the stopping of the persecution of former Berkut officers, the disarming of Maidan self-defence units, and the banning of a number of far-right political organizations, like Svoboda and UNA-UNSO. In the event that the authorities failed to comply with the demands, the Oblast administration reserved the \"right to ask for help from the brotherly people of the Russian Federation\".\n\nGovernment buildings in Luhansk have been occupied multiple times. A peaceful pro-Maidan demonstration on Heroes Square, outside the Luhansk city administration building, was attacked by anti-Maidan counter-demonstrators on 9 March. The attackers then stormed the building, and occupied it, but were swiftly removed by government forces. The Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) local headquarters was occupied on 6 April, along with the SBU's armoury of over 300 machine guns. Pro-Russian activists discussed plans for a \"Luhansk Parliamentary Republic\" on 8 April 2014. 1,500 were involved in the building's occupation. The occupiers referred to themselves as the \"Army of the South-East\" (). According to \"The Guardian\", the personnel include former members of the Berkut special police.\n\nThe mood remained tense in Luhansk on 14 April. During the morning, up to 300 persons were observed at the entrance of the SBU building. There has been no indication that pro-Russian demonstrators in Luhansk would enact the terms of the Geneva Statement on Ukraine, and demonstrations have continued. Those occupying the SBU building told OSCE monitors on 20 April that they would demobilize once occupied buildings in Kiev were vacated by Euromaidan supporters. The monitors also encountered a roadblock near the village of Rayhorodka, in Novoaidar Raion. It was manned by about ten people in civilian clothes, including the local Orthodox priest. They stated that they set up the roadblock on 14 April to protect their village from any separatist incursions. A commander of the Ukrainian army indicated that no incidents had occurred at the roadblock so far, but that unknown armed individuals had been seen approaching it in the night.\n\nA rally outside the SBU building to elect a 'people's government' in Luhansk occurred on 21 April. At the rally, protesters called for an 11 May referendum on the status of Luhansk Oblast with three options: be part of a Ukrainian Federation, join the Russian Federation or remain part of a unitary Ukraine. Around 1,500 participants were observed at the peak of the rally. The leaders of the rally said that they were not separatists, and sought a peaceful solution, which would allow Luhansk to remain within Ukraine.\n\nThe OSCE monitoring mission reported that the situation in Luhansk on 23 April was 'stable', and that the area around the occupied SBU building was 'quiet'. The monitors met with representatives of a non-governmental organization that said they had been held captive for six hours within the building on 21 April, and that about 100 men in unmarked uniforms with machine guns were present inside it at the time.\n\nSeveral hundred protesters that had gathered outside the occupied SBU building proclaimed the \"Luhansk People's Republic\" on 27 April. They demanded that Ukrainian government provide amnesty for all protesters, enshrine Russian as an official language, and hold a referendum on the status of the region. They issued an ultimatum that stated that if Kiev did not meet their demands by 14:00 on 29 April, they would launch an insurgency in tandem with that of the Donetsk People's Republic.\n\nAs these demands were not met, 2,000 to 3,000 protestors stormed the Luhansk RSA building on 29 April. Previously, only the SBU building had been targeted. The building was unprotected on the exterior, but a group of riot police confronted the protesters in an inner courtyard of the building. A brief standoff resulted, but the police did nothing to stop the protesters. A Russian flag was raised over the building. Several other buildings, including a police station and the local prosecutor's office were later seized. Twenty separatist gunmen fired machine guns at the police station to force the officers within to surrender. President Oleksander Turchynov responded to the loss of the buildings by demanding the immediate resignation of police chiefs in Donetsk and Luhansk. By 2 May, however, pro-Russian protesters occupying the city council and the television centre had left, and the prosecutors office was freed following negotiations between authorities and separatists.\n\nThe next day, however, separatist leader and self-proclaimed mayor of Luhansk Valeriy Bolotov announced the formation of a \"South-Eastern Army\" to march on Kiev. Bolotov also declared a state of emergency, introduced a curfew, a ban on political parties, and a mandate that local law enforcement officials must take an oath of allegiance to him. In a video statement, he said \"In case of not following this, you will be announced traitors of people of Luhansk and wartime measures will be taken against you\".\n\nA GAZ Tigr heavy armoured vehicle emblazoned with the emblem of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia was seen parked outside the RSA building on 8 May, along with men in military gear and assault rifles. Whilst speaking to OSCE monitors, the Deputy Governor of Luhansk Oblast said that the \"security situation in the region is deteriorating due to activities of the separatists and criminal gangs\". Members of the OSCE special monitoring mission were later stopped at an 'illegal' checkpoint near the village of Shchastya, and held for three hours before being released.\n\nThe disputed referendum on the status of Luhansk Oblast was held on 11 May. According to representatives of the Luhansk People's Republic, 96.2% voted in favour of self-rule, and voter turnout was 75%. Valeriy Bolotov, leader of the Republic, declared \"martial law\" on 22 May. OSCE monitors said that around 70% of \"shops, cafés and banks\" were closed in Luhansk city centre. Those shops that were still open were said to be sold out of some necessities, and fuel was not available. Police were entirely absent.\n\nThe confederal state of Novorossiya was proclaimed by Pavel Gubarev on 22 May, incorporating both the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic. \"Novorossiya\" hearkens back to a term used by the Russian Empire to refer to modern eastern and southern Ukraine.\n\nExplosions struck the RSA building in Luhansk on 2 June, killing eight people, and wounding twenty-eight. Russian media reported that the explosions were caused by an airstrike by Ukrainian government forces. Ukrainian government officials denied this, and said that the insurgents had fired an anti-aircraft missile at themselves. The next day, the OSCE special monitoring mission said that based on \"limited observation\", the \"strikes were the result of non-guided rockets shot from an aircraft\". \nA CNN investigation found clear evidence that the detonations came from the air and the pattern of the craters suggested use of standard equipment on the Su-25, a ground-attack fighter, and the Su-27—both combat aircraft operated by Ukraine. \nAnalysis of RadioLiberty also concluded that \"Despite Denials, All Evidence For Deadly Explosion Points To Kyiv\".\nHeavy fighting in the region continued over the following months, until the signing of the Minsk Protocol in early September, which established a ceasefire.\n\nProtests have been held also in Kharkiv Oblast, and the regional state administration building there was occupied multiple times.\n\nUnrest first gripped Kharkiv city on 22 February 2014, when Euromaidan protesters occupied the Kharkiv regional state administration (RSA) building. Later that day, several thousand protesters tripped to topple a statue of Vladimir Lenin that stood opposite to the RSA building in Freedom Square. Several taxi drivers defended the monument, injuring several of the protesters. By the next day, several thousand pro-Russian protesters had gathered in square to protect the statue. They set up a perimeter fence around it. Then governor of Kharkiv Oblast Mykhailo Dobkin made a speech to the defenders of the statue, saying that the statue was \"a symbol of our city... we will leave it here and we will defend it\". Local police kept Euromaidan and Anti-Maidan protesters apart until 1 March. On that day, pro-Russian activists stormed the RSA building, assaulted the Euromaidan activists who had been occupying it, and raised the Russian flag over the building. According to the local media, 2,000 Russians were brought by busses with Russian number plates to Kharkiv to take part in the storming of the RSA building. Russian activist organizations confirmed that they sent Russians to \"peacefully protest\" in Kharkiv. Police regained control of the building by evening on the same day, and replaced the Russian flag with that of Ukraine.\n\nDemonstrations by pro-Russian and pro-Ukrainian activists in Kharkiv continued throughout the month of March. These included pro-Russian gatherings of up to 5,000 people, and pro-Ukrainian gatherings of up to 10,000 people. Despite this, the city remained relatively calm until 15 March, when two people were killed in a shootout between Ukrainian nationalists and pro-Russian activists. On the next day, pro-Russian activists broke into a Ukrainian cultural centre in Kharkiv, removed books written in the Ukrainian language, and burned them on the street outside.\nPro-Russian protesters stormed and occupied the RSA building on 6 April. The next day, protesters in the occupied RSA building unilaterally declared independence from Ukraine as the \"Kharkov People's Republic\". Doubts arose about the local origin of the protesters after they initially stormed an opera and ballet theatre believing it was the city hall. By 8 April, the RSA building had been retaken by Ukrainian special forces, and seventy protesters had been arrested. 1,000 pro-Russian protesters returned to the RSA building on 13 April, and rallied around it, with some entering. These protesters then holed up inside the building with Kharkiv mayor Hennadiy Kernes. Later in the day, Kernes declared his support for an autonomy referendum and amnesty for the arrested Kharkiv separatists. At least fifty pro-government protesters, who had been holding concurrent demonstrations, were severely beaten in attacks by pro-Russian protesters. Gunshots and grenade explosions were heard. Videos showed three people covered with blood being held on the metro station stairs, and separatists coming up to them, kicking them and shouting \"they are not humans!\"\n\nAccording to a report by the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) monitoring mission on 19 April, no protesters were seen in front of the RSA building since 13 April. In a session of the Kharkiv City Appeals Court on 17 April, it was ruled that 43 of the 65 protesters arrested by authorities following the takeover of the RSA building on 8 and 9 April would remain in custody. Sentences for another 16 were changed to house arrest. Three detainees were released on bail, whereas the three remaining had been earlier sentenced to house arrest.\n\nKharkiv remained calm over the weekend of 19–20 April, though a small, peaceful pro-Russian protest was held on Freedom Square. Demonstrations continued on Freedom Square, with 500 people gathering on 21 April to elect a \"people's government\". Worsening economic conditions in Ukraine were cited by participants as an impetus for the demonstrations. They called for the resignation of the city mayor and prosecutor as well as the return of Viktor Yanukovych. Vladimir Varshavsky was elected \"people's governor\".\n\nMore peaceful rallies were held in the morning on 23 April, with both anti-government and pro-government demonstrations held in Kharkiv city centre. Each rally was attended by around 400 people. Around 150 anti-government protesters gathered outside the city council building on Constitution Square concurrently with the rallies. Later that day, over 7,000 residents held a rally in the same spot to support the unity and territorial integrity of Ukraine.\nThe situation overall in Kharkiv remained calm, though police remained on high alert. A small group of riot police were seen guarding the RSA building on 25 April, though the police presence as a whole in the city appeared to be much reduced.\n\nRival demonstrations by supporters and opponents of a unitary Ukrainian state occurred on 27 April in Kharkiv city. This resulted in clashes between around 400 opponents and 500 to 600 supporters of the Ukrainian government. Police attempts to quell the unrest were not successful.\n\nThe mayor of Kharkiv, Hennadiy Kernes, was shot in the back while cycling on 28 April 2014. He was said to be in \"grave, but stable\" condition. Kernes was known as a staunch opponent of the Euromaidan. However, he had also stated that he did not support the pro-Russian insurgency, and backed a united Ukraine. Mykhailo Dobkin, a former governor of Kharkiv Oblast and potential Ukrainian presidential candidate, said \"You want to know my opinion, they were shooting not at Kernes, but at Kharkiv\", and said that the shooting was an attempt to destabilize what was otherwise a relatively calm region.\n\nKharkiv returned to relative calm by 30 April, no rallies having been observed there by OSCE monitors. A minor demonstration by about four-hundred separatists was held in Freedom Square on 4 May. A notably increased police presence remained in and around Freedom Square. On the same day, a planned rally by pro-Ukrainian unity groups was cancelled due to concerns about potential clashes in the wake of the Odessa disaster.\n\nDemonstrations by \"opponents of Ukrainian unity\" with Russian and Soviet flags were held in front of the Russian and Polish consulates in Kharkiv city on 26 May. These demonstrators initiated petitions that they said were signed by 1,500 people from Kharkiv, which called on the EU and Russia not to recognise the results of the 25 May Ukrainian presidential election. They also voiced opposition to the Ukrainian government's military operations in Donetsk Oblast. Mayor Hennadiy Kernes returned to Kharkiv city on 16 June, after receiving medical treatment in Israel. The city administration provided buses for around 1,000 people who came to greet him upon his return.\n\nDemonstrations similar to the one that took place on 26 May continued throughout the month of June. One such demonstration took place on 22 June, with 800–900 people gathering on the 73rd anniversary of the German Reich's invasion of the Soviet Union. The demonstrators voiced the same concerns about the Ukrainian government's military operations to combat separatist insurgents in Donetsk Oblast. Concurrently, around 1,000 people rallied for a ban on the Communist Party of Ukraine, and on pro-Russian demonstrations. Some of the people participating in this rally approached the location of the aforementioned pro-Russian demonstration. A verbal confrontation ensued, involving participants of both rallies. Police officers that had been escorting the pro-Ukrainian demonstrators dispersed the crowd. Thirty activists from both groups were temporarily detained as a result. The chief of the Kharkiv Oblast branch of the Ministry of Internal Affairs said on 28 June that about 200 policemen had been fired since March for having been \"in violation of the law\", with many of them having \"separatist views\". He also said that police intervention on 22 June had managed to \"prevent slaughter\", and that both Euromaidan and Anti-Maidan activists had been trying to \"destabilize the situation\". Furthermore, Kharkiv Oblast governor Ihor Baluta wrote on his Facebook page that 314 \"active separatists\" had been arrested in Kharkiv since 6 April. Another protest by about 300 Ukrainian unity activists took place on 22 July. They gathered outside the RSA building with European Union, NATO, and Ukrainian flags, and said that they wanted to prevent the war in the Donbass region from spreading to Kharkiv Oblast. They demanded that gatherings of separatists and communists within Kharkiv city be prohibited. An attempt was made to destroy an important bridge in the village of Hrushuvakha on 29 July. The bridge was not damaged in the attempt, but Kharkiv RSA said that there were other plots to carry out \"terrorist attacks\" in Kharkiv Oblast.\n\nThe mayor of Kharkiv, Hennadiy Kernes, granted freedom of the city to two Russian citizens at a session of the city council on 6 August. This concerned some people in the city, causing about one-hundred people to protest outside city administration building. Police restrained the protesters, who attempted to force their way into the building. Protesters and the police negotiated, and eventually five protestors were allowed into the city administration to voice their grievances. Kharkiv remained calm for the next few days, until 10 August. On that day, about 150 people gathered outside the city administration and demanded an end to the government military operation in the Donbass region. A counter-protest was also held, with about 300 people voicing their support for the government military opposition, calling for the dissolution of the city administration, and the dismissal of the mayor. About one-hundred anti-Maidan-affiliated demonstrators gathered on Freedom Square to protest against corruption in Ukraine on 17 August. One of the speakers at the protest said that the best way to fight corruption was to create a \"local regional government\", as they said this would eliminate the need to \"bribe the ministers in Kiev\". A concurrent protest in the same square saw 250 pro-Euromaidan demonstrators voice their support for lustration and against oligarchy. The pro-Euromaidan demonstrators also collected money for the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and for refugees fleeing the War in Donbass. A Kharkiv court decision banned a planned 23 August joint rally of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the organization \"South-East\". \"South-East\" itself was banned on 20 August, because it was deemed to be \"a threat to the sovereignty of Ukraine and the security of its people\" by a Kharkiv court. About 500 people marched on 23 August in commemoration of the Day of the National Flag and the European Day of Remembrance for Victims of Stalinism and Nazism; one of their demands was the dissolution of the city administration. A peaceful gathering of Ukrainian unity activists was held outside the Russian consulate in Kharkiv on 28 August. Around 400 people attended the demonstration. Participants said they were concerned about Russia's intervention in the War in Donbass. The demonstration was later dispersed by the police after stun grenades were thrown at the consulate.\n\nOne of the largest gatherings of supporters of Ukrainian unity in many months took place in Kharkiv on 28 September. At about 14:30, a diverse crowd of 2,000 people met in front of the Opera House. The demonstration was led by the Azov paramilitary battalion. The crowd then marched to Freedom Square, where there was a statue of Vladimir Lenin. The statue been a rallying point for pro-Russian protesters earlier in the year. By this time, the crowd had reached 5,000 people. The statue of Lenin was pulled down by the demonstrators at 22:40, shortly after oblast governor Ihor Baluta signed an order to dismantle the statue. In late October, Governor Baluta admitted that he thought that the majority of the city's residents had not wanted the statue removed, but said \"there was hardly any protest afterward either, which is quite telling\".\n\nFrom early November until mid-December, Kharkiv was struck by seven non-lethal bomb blasts. Targets of these attacks included a rock pub known for raising money for Ukrainian forces, a hospital for Ukrainian forces, a military recruiting centre, and a National Guard base. According to SBU investigator Vasyliy Vovk, Russian covert forces were behind the attacks, and had intended to destabilize the otherwise calm city of Kharkiv.\n\nBeginning on 1 March, demonstrations began in Odessa Oblast. Police reported that 5,000 participated in a pro-Russian demonstration in the city of Odessa on that day.\n\nRolling demonstrations continued, and on 3 March 2014, 200–500 demonstrators with Russian flags attempted to seize the Odessa Regional State Administration building. They demanded that a referendum on the establishment of an \"Odessa Autonomous Republic\" be held.\n\nAn 'Odessa People's Republic' was allegedly proclaimed by an internet group in Odessa Oblast on 16 April. Members of the Odessa anti-Maidan protest group later swore that they made no such declaration, and the leaders of the group said they had only heard about it through the media. The OSCE monitoring mission in Ukraine later confirmed that the situation in Odessa remained calm.\n\nLocal anti-Maidan and pro-Euromaidan leaders in Odessa Oblast voiced scepticism about the Geneva Statement on Ukraine on 20 April. The anti-Maidan leaders insisted that they aimed not at secession, but at the establishment of a wider federative state called 'Novorossiya' within Ukraine.\n\nA hand grenade was thrown from a passing car at a joint police-Maidan self-defence checkpoint outside Odessa on 25 April, injuring seven people, and causing heightened tensions in the region.\n\nA week later, on 2 May, a rally by about 1,500 pro-government demonstrators, including football ultras, was attacked by visibly smaller group of alleged pro-Russian militants with batons and helmets. Both sides clashed in the streets of central Odessa, building barricades, throwing petrol bombs, and firing automatic weapons at each other.\n\nThe anti-Maidan protesters were later overwhelmed by the much larger group of Ukrainian unity protesters, forcing them to retreat to and occupy the Trade Unions House. Whilst defending the building, militants on the roof tossed rocks and petrol bombs at the protesters below, who responded in kind with petrol bombs of their own. The building then caught fire. In total, 43 people died during the clashes. Thirty-one died whilst trapped in the burning Trade Unions House. Police said at least three people were shot dead.\n\nIn the aftermath of the clashes, on 4 May, the main Internal Affairs Ministry office in Odessa was attacked by pro-Russian protesters. They demanded the release of their \"comrades\" who had participated in the clashes. The police complied, resulting in the freeing of 67 of those arrested. By 5 May, the situation in Odessa had calmed, though the atmosphere remained extremely tense.\n\nAbout sixty people gathered on Kulikovo Field to commemorate the 2 May fire on 13 July. The demonstration was peaceful. Another demonstration on the field on the same day drew about 120 people. They chanted \"Donbass, we are with you\", in reference to the ongoing War in Donbass. Odessa city mayor Hennadiy Trukhanov told OSCE monitors on 23 July that the \"underlying tensions\" of the 2 May clashes remained in the city, and that he feared for the city's security.\n\nOdessa was struck by six bomb blasts in December 2014, one of which killed one person (the injuries sustained by the victim indicated that he had dealt with explosives). Internal Affairs Ministry advisor Zorian Shkiryak said on 25 December that Odessa and Kharkiv had become \"cities which are being used to escalate tensions\" in Ukraine. Shkiryak said that he suspected that these cities were singled out because of their \"geographic position\".\n\nThe Security Service of Ukraine claims that in April 2015 it prevented the proclamation of a so-called \"Bessarabian People’s Republic\". According to the security service the separatist network behind it also wanted to set up a \"Odesa People's Republic\", \"Porto-Franko\" and other breakaway entities.\n\nThe charts below show the locations, dates, and attendance rate of pro-Russian protests in Ukraine, and also of pro-Ukrainian counter-protests.\n\nVarious breakaway states were proclaimed during the unrest.\n\n\n\n\nVarious international entities warned all sides to reduce tensions in Eastern and Southern Ukraine.\n\nDuring the course of the unrest, the United States, followed by the European Union, Canada, Norway, Switzerland, and Japan, began to sanction Russian individuals and companies that they said were related to the crisis. Announcing the first sanctions, the United States described some individuals targeted by sanctions, among them former Ukrainian president Yanukovych, as \"threatening the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine, and for undermining Ukraine's democratic institutions and processes\". The Russian government responded in kind with sanctions against some American and Canadian individuals. With the unrest continuing to escalate, the European Union and Canada imposed further sanctions in mid-May.\n\nOn 10 April, Ukraine, the United States, Russia and the European Union agreed to hold a 17 April quadrilateral meeting in Geneva to try to negotiate an end to the crisis in Ukraine. The meeting produced a document, called the Geneva Statement on Ukraine, which stated that all sides agreed that steps should be taken to \"de-escalate\" the crisis. All four parties agreed that all \"illegal military formations in Ukraine\" must be dissolved, and that everyone occupying buildings must be disarmed and leave but that there would be an amnesty for all anti-government protesters under the agreement. These steps will be overseen by monitors from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). The sides also agreed that the Constitution of Ukraine is also to be revised in a process that is \"inclusive, transparent and accountable\". The agreement put on hold additional economic sanctions against Russia by the United States and the European Union.\n\nAs part of an OSCE initiative to solving the crisis in Ukraine, national unity talks were held in Kiev, starting from 14 May. Separatists from Donetsk and Luhansk were not represented, as the Ukrainian government said that \"those armed people who are trying to wage a war on their own country, those who are with arms in their hands trying to dictate their will, or rather the will of another country, we will use legal procedures against them and they will face justice\". The OSCE said that Russian president Vladimir Putin supported its initiative. Concurrently, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that the separatists should be included in the talks. Separatists from Kharkiv were indeed invited to attend, but they refused to participate.\n\nUkrainian president Petro Poroshenko announced a fifteen-point plan for peace on 20 June. The plan called for a week-long ceasefire, starting on 20 June, for the separatists to vacate the buildings they've occupied, for decentralization of power from the central government in Kiev, and for the protection of Russian-language rights. The full text of the fifteen points are as follows:\n\n\nRussian president Vladimir Putin offered some support for the plan, but called for Poroshenko to bring the separatists into negotiations. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Poroshenko's peace plan \"look like an ultimatum.\" Poroshenko previously refused to enter into negotiations with armed separatists. OSCE monitors with the Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine met with a representative of the Donetsk People's Republic on 21 June to discuss the peace plan. The representative said that the Republic would reject the ceasefire, and said that the primary demands of the government of the Donetsk People's Republic were \"withdrawal of Ukrainian forces from Donbass\", and recognition of the Republic. However, after initial peace talks between the separatists, Ukrainian and Russian officials, and the OSCE in Donetsk on 23 June, Alexander Borodai, prime minister of the Donetsk People's Republic, said that his forces would hold to the ceasefire. Soon after this statement, separatists in Sloviansk shot down a Ukrainian Armed Forces Mi-8 helicopter, killing all those on board. The next day, the Office of the President of Ukraine issued a statement that said that the ceasefire had been violated by the insurgents at least thirty-five times. President Poroshenko also said that he was considering ending the ceasefire, and Borodai said that \"there has been no ceasefire\".\n\nDespite this, Poroshenko extended the ceasefire by three days from its planned ending on 27 June. In response to this action, protesters in Kiev took the streets in large numbers to demand that the ceasefire be cancelled. The ceasefire had little actual impact on clashes between government and separatist forces, with at least five government soldiers killed during the ceasefire. By July, the peace plan had fallen by the wayside and Poroshenko ended ceasefire after both sides accused each other of repeated violations. After a rocket attack that killed nineteen Ukrainian troops, Poroshenko vowed to take revenge on the separatists: \"Militants will pay hundreds of their lives for each life of our servicemen. Not a single terrorist will avoid responsibility.\"\n\n\nFormer adviser to the President of Russia Vladimir Putin and a senior fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington, DC, Andrey Illarionov estimates that at least 2,000 Russian intelligence officials are operating in eastern Ukraine.\n\nUkrainian intelligence claims that it has a dossier on more than forty Russian military intelligence, or GRU, operatives arrested so far on Ukrainian soil and the weapons and ammunition seized after being transported across the border from Russia. The file is said to describe the role of an alleged GRU colonel, Igor Ivanovich Strielkov, who has been involved in agitation in the east, including his attempts to suborn Ukrainian soldiers with offers of cash. The Ukrainian Security Service have put out a wanted poster for Strielkov, accusing him of a series of charges, included premeditated murder and organizing mass riots. Russia insists that the allegations are false, and that a Mr. Streilkov does not even exist or \"at least not as a Russian operative sent to Ukraine with orders to stir up trouble\".\n\nCNN presented a video from a large separatist rally held in a central Donetsk city square around lunchtime on 26 May. Lorries in the square carried armed Chechen paramilitaries. Two told a CNN team they were from the Chechen capital, Grozny, and one indicated that he was formerly a policeman in Chechnya and was in Donetsk to serve the Russian Federation. Russian and Ukraininan media published numerous reports on bodies of separatists being transported secretly back to Russia, usually through Uspenka border pass. A few names of the killed volunteers were established—Sergey Zhdanovich (Сергей Жданович), Yuri Abrosimov (Юрий Абросимов), Aleksey Yurin (Алексей Юрин), Alexandr Efremov (Александр Ефремов), Evgeny Korolenko (Евгений Короленко). The bodies were transported to Russian military base in Rostov-on-Don. Some of the families were able to get the bodies secretly returned to them. Most of the killed had past military experience. According to the journalists Russian military commissariats (\"voyenkomat\") in Rostov were actively recruiting volunteers for Donbas among former soldiers, especially with specific skills (ATGM, SAM, AGS-17) and those previously serving in Chechnya and Afghanistan.\n\nOn 18 June Daniel Baer (OSCE) noted that \"there continue to be fighters and arms coming across the border from Russia to Ukraine in recent days and weeks, and we don't see any efforts to turn it off by Russia\".\n\nAccording to the leader of Ukraine's Jewish communities, Russia is \"infected with the ideas of revanchism and that is very closely linked to fascism\" with Russian neo-Nazi organizations such as the Russian National Unity movement, led by ultra-nationalist Aleksandr Barkashov, supporting separatists in March and May.\n\nOn 29 March, Russian political scientist Aleksandr Dugin appeared in a leaked Skype video conference with Kateryna Gubareva, the wife of Donetsk-based separatist Pavel Gubarev. In the call, he reassured her of Moscow's support and further actions that should be taken by the movement. He also stated all presidential nominees should be considered 'traitors' with only Yanukovych considered legitimate. He also said that separatists should \"act in a radical way\" and Moscow will later support civil war in Ukraine, saying \"The Kremlin is determined to fight for the independence of South-east Ukraine.\" Following the video's release, a member of Dugin's Eurasian Youth Union (Oleg Bakhtiyarov) was arrested on 31 March for planning terrorist acts in Ukraine.\n\n\n\n\nMonitors from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) were sent to Ukraine after a request by the Ukrainian government, and an agreement between all member states of the OSCE, including Russia. The Special Monitoring Mission (SMM) deployed on 6 April, and has remained in Ukraine to \"contribute to reducing tensions and fostering peace, stability and security\". The SMM lost contact with four monitors in Donetsk Oblast on 26 May, and another four in Luhansk Oblast on 29 May. Both groups were held in captivity by separatists for a month, until being freed on 27 June and 28 June respectively.\n\nThroughout the conflict there were reports of both police and military either deserting their posts or defecting to the separatists. Oleksandr Turchynov stated that numerous Ukrainian military and security personnel joined the separatists, alongside Ukrainian military equipment. A report by the Internal Affairs Ministry said that over 17,000 policemen had defected to insurgents in eastern Ukraine by 23 May.\n\nOn 19 July Ilya Bogdanov, a former Russian FSB lieutenant in Vladivostok, defected to Ukraine claiming that he couldn't longer stand the lies used by Russia to stimulate the situation in Eastern Ukraine and Dagestan, where he served earlier. On 24 July Russian army serviceman Andrej Balabanov asked for political asylum in Ukraine stating \"I finally took a decision not to take part in this war and sided with Ukraine. This is my protest against Russia's political leaders\". Balabanov claimed his unit had sent \"military intelligence, GRU, experts and Chechens\" into Ukraine to help the separatists. He went on to claim his unit had been \"continuously brainwashed into believing they would be sent to Ukraine to save their Russian-speaking brothers\".\n\nOn 3 April, one man was arrested and eight more were put under house arrest on suspicion of involvement in the riots in Donetsk on 13 March, which led to the murder of Dmitry Cherniavsky.\n\nOn 5 April, the SBU arrested a group of 15 people in Luhansk, along with 300 machine guns, one anti-tank grenade launcher, five pistols, petrol bombs and a large amount of smooth-bore guns and other weapons. \"The group planned to carry out an armed seizure of power in Luhansk region on April 10 through intimidation of civilians using weapons and explosives,\" the SBU press office told Interfax-Ukraine.\n\nIn Kharkiv, anti-Maidan activist Ignat Kramskoy (nicknamed \"Topaz\") was placed under house arrest on 29 March for his alleged involvement in the 1 March raid on the Kharkiv Regional State Administration building. On 7 April, Topaz fled house arrest, cutting off his monitoring bracelet. Topaz has since given interviews with the Russian channel LifeNews, and spoken about the current 'guerrilla struggle' and need to use firearms to capture buildings. Topaz was arrested once again while setting up an interview with Russia's Life News channel. Kramskoy was sentenced to 8 years in prison in January 2018, but released in September of the same year due to having served time in arrest.\n\nOn 12 April another saboteur was arrested by the SBU in Kharkiv, known as \"K\", who was tasked with organizing riots and capturing administrative buildings. Later, 70 were arrested between the border of Poltava and Kharkiv. The men were travelling on a bus and found in possession of explosives, petrol bombs, bats, shields, helmets, knives, and other weapons.\n\nOn 25 April, the SBU announced it had arrested two Ukrainian military members recruited by Russian intelligence.\n\nOn 29 April the SBU arrested Spartak Holovachov and Yuri Apukhtin, leader of the Great Rus' organization in Kharkiv. Authorities claimed they were organized from abroad to plan riots in the city on 9 May, and upon searching their headquarters found guns, grenades, ammunition, cash, and separatist leaflets.\n\nAs of 19 April, the SBU had arrested 117 citizens of Russia.\n\nIn April 2014 international billionaire and governor of Dnipropetrovsk Igor Kolomoisky issued a $10,000 bounty for the apprehension of Russian agents. He also offered rewards for handing in weapons belonging to insurgents: $1,000 for each machine gun turned in to the authorities, $1,500 for every heavy machine gun and $2,000 for a grenade launcher. On 19 April he issued his first $10,000 payout for the capture of a Russian saboteur. Media reported that least one billboard existed with the following text: \"$10,000 for a Moskal\" (derogatory name for Russians). According to The Daily Beast no such billboards existed and the photo media referred to \"was faked for the Internet.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20124815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20124815", "title": "A. D. S. N. Prasad", "text": "A. D. S. N. Prasad\n\nDr. A. D. S. N. Prasad is the founder of Pathway Centers for Children, a non-profit and non governmental organization located in Chennai and other rural parts of Tamil Nadu, that is dedicated to the welfare of children with mental handicap and those who are destitute or otherwise disadvantaged.\n\nAs a 22-year-old speech pathologist and audiologist, Prasad learned that to pay for his professional services clients quite often would have to sell everything they had and would make great sacrifices. Impressed by this, he eventually started giving free services to whoever needed it.\n\nPrasad established Pathway with a motive to help those were underprivileged and disadvantaged in the society.\n\nA biography on Prasad's, life \"Prasad Enroru Thai\" ()was released in October 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17644014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17644014", "title": "Academic Competitiveness Grant", "text": "Academic Competitiveness Grant\n\nThe Academic Competitiveness Grant, more commonly known by its acronym ACG, was a federal assistance grant reserved for college students with the greatest need for financial aid to attend school. To be eligible for this grant, students must have met all of the following criteria:\n\n\nThe ACG provided up to $750 for the first year and $1300 for the second year of study.\n\nThe ACG is no longer available as of the 2011-2012 financial aid award year due to government cuts.\n\nIMPORTANT NOTE: This program ended June 30, 2011\n"}
{"id": "1906215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1906215", "title": "Alternative Democratic Reform Party", "text": "Alternative Democratic Reform Party\n\nThe Alternative Democratic Reform Party (, , ), abbreviated to ADR, is a national-conservative political party in Luxembourg. It has three seats in the sixty-seat Chamber of Deputies, making it the fifth-largest party.\n\nThe party was founded in 1987, as a single-issue party from demanding equality of state pension provision between civil servants and all other citizens. In the 1989 election, it won four seats, and established itself as a political force. It peaked at seven seats in 1999, due to mistrust of politicians failing to resolve the pensions gap, before falling back to four today. Its significance on a national level makes it the most successful pensioners' party in western Europe.\n\nPolitical success has required the ADR to develop positions on all matters of public policy, developing an anti-establishment, conservative platform. It has adopted economic liberalism, filling a gap vacated by the Democratic Party. It is the largest party in Luxembourg to take a euro-realist/softly eurosceptic line, and is a member of the anti-federalist Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe. The ADR wishes to implement Swiss-style direct democracy. There has been debate whether the party should be classified as populist, although most experts agree that the ADR is better characterised as a national-conservative party.\n\nThe ADR has its roots in a demonstration in Luxembourg City on 28 March 1987, held to protest at the disparities between the 5/6ths final salary scheme enjoyed by civil servants and the basic state pension received by everyone else. The large crowd, and the collection of 10,000 signatures for a petition demanding change, persuaded the organisers that there was widespread public support. The party was founded on the 12 May 1987 as the 'Action Committee 5/6ths Pensions for Everyone' (\"Aktiounskomitee 5/6 Pensioun fir jiddfereen\").\n\nIn the 1989 election to the Chamber of Deputies, on 18 June 1989, the party achieved remarkable success by attracting votes from far beyond its core support base. Many Luxembourgers voted for the ADR as a protest vote, allowing the ADR to register 7.3% of the vote, win 4 of the 60 seats, and come fourth. The spectacular triumph of the party in the election required the leadership to formulate a new party strategy. On 12 November 1989, the name was amended to 'Action Committee 5/6ths' (\"Aktiounskomitee 5/6\"), reflecting its increased attention to other concerns. The party lost one of its deputies, Josy Simon, when he defected to the Democratic Party in spring 1991.\n\nOn 22 November 1992, the name was changed again, to 'Action Committee for Democracy and Pensions Justice' (\"Aktiounskomitee fir Demokratie an Rentengerechtigkeet\"). In December of the same year, the prominent deputy Fernand Rau defected from the Christian Social People's Party (CSV) after it broke its pledge to make him European Commissioner, increasing the ADR's representation back up to four. At the 10 October 1993 local elections, the ADR won 7 seats in communal councils. At the 1994 general election, the ADR got 9.0% of the vote and 5 seats, putting the ADR over the threshold required to qualify as a caucus, but the ADR fell to fifth place, behind the resurgent Greens.\n\nOn 3 August 1998, a law was passed equalising pension provision between civil servants and other workers, fulfilling the ADR's original \"raison d'être\", but this did not prevent the ADR from strengthening its position further. In the 1999 legislative election, the party enjoyed increased success, winning 9.4% of the vote and 7 seats. The results put the ADR back into fourth place, but the Greens managed to hold on to their seat in the simultaneous European elections. October 1999 saw ADR candidates elected in ten communes, with two winning in each of Luxembourg City and Esch-sur-Alzette. The ADR lost two of its Chamber of Deputies seats at the 2004 general election, and its share of the vote fell to under 10%.\n\nOne of ADR's hallmark positions is its euroscepticism, and it is the only eurosceptic party in the Chamber of Deputies. It was the only parliamentary party that actively campaigned against the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which was put to a referendum and narrowly passed with 56.5% of voters in favour.\n\nOn 2 April 2006 the name was changed once more, to its current name of 'Alternative Democratic Reform Party' (\"Alternativ Demokratesch Reformpartei\"). Significantly, for the first time, the name makes no reference to pension reform, signalling the eagerness of the ADR to further solidify its position as a major party in national politics. However, on 1 May, Aly Jaerling left the party to sit as an independent in the Chamber of Deputies, complaining of the move away from campaigning for pensions. As a result of Jaerling's departure, the party lost its status as a caucus and now only qualifies as a 'group', threatening its future security.\n\nOn 29 May 2008, the ADR deputies and Jaerling were the only members not to vote for the Treaty of Lisbon. In the 2009 Chamber election, the ADR held on to four seats (of which, 2 in Sud), but with a reduced vote share of 8.1%: its worst legislative election result since its first election, in 1989, whilst its vote share fell - albeit by less - in the simultaneous European Parliament election, to 7.4%. Jaerling, running for his own Citizens' List, failed to win a seat in either. This had been in spite of strong pre-election polling, the difference likely to be attributable to the financial crisis pushing voters to more familiar parties.\n\nOn 8 June 2010, the ADR joined the Alliance of Conservatives and Reformists in Europe, a Euro-Realist Europe-wide political party. In the snap-election of 2013, the ADR once again fell in their share of the vote, from 8.14% to 6.64%. However, they did manage to regain one seat, having fallen to only two MPs after the defections of Jacques-Yves Henckes and Jean Colombera. The former sat out the 2009-2013 legislative period as an independent, the latter founded the Party for Full Democracy. Roy Reding regained the mandate in the Centre district, putting the party back at 3 mandates.\n\nDuring the Constitutional Referendum Campaign of 2015, the ADR was the only party to explicitly campaign for the \"3 x No\" vote, thereby rejecting the opening of the right to vote for 16 year-olds and foreign residents, as well as rejecting the idea of limiting minister mandates to 10 years. This campaign was in stark contrast to the campaign of the largest party, the CSV, whose main message was to \"be informed\" when voting. With each question being rejected by between 70% and 80% of the electorate , this event represented a big political win for the ADR in face of the incumbent Government. \n\n3 years after the Referendum, on the 2nd March 2018, the ADR announced that it would be co-operating with the citizen's movement Wee 2050 - Nee 2015, which had been founded pre-referendum to campaign for the \"3 x No\". The cooperation agreement involved Wee 2050 having up to 8 places on the ADR's electoral lists for the legislative election of October 2018, and ensured that the movement could remain relatively independent by not requiring the Wee 2050 candidates to be members of the ADR per se.\n\nThe party was founded as a single-issue party, to introduce equality between private and public sector pensions. The focus on pension reform allowed it to make it the core campaign issue of all five elections in the first ten years of its formation. By 1998, the party had forced the government to accede almost all of its demands. However, this success has not thwarted the ADR, and it has diversified its programme to cover all aspects of public policy.\n\nThe party is a supporter of economic liberalism, having positioned itself to fill a void left by the Democratic Party. The party is critical of public sector waste and the 'elitist' nature of public spending projects. The ADR is socially conservative. It is opposed to euthanasia and assisted suicide. The party places great importance on promoting the Luxembourgish language, and its electoral success in the 1999 election pushed the CSV-DP government to make knowledge of it a criterion for naturalisation. It is opposed to multiple citizenship.\n\nThe party is marked out from the other parties by being Eurosceptic, sharing this position with only the far left, and being the country's most sovereigntist party. The leadership had supported the proposed European Constitution, endorsing it in the 2004 European election, before changing its position in the spring of 2005 under pressure from party members. In its criticism of the EU, the party puts emphasis on the democratic deficit and transparency. However, in heavily pro-European Luxembourg, the ADR had always fared worse in European elections than on national elections, which were held on the same day. This was the case only until 2014, when the party achieved a slightly better score than it had in the early 2013 national elections, managing to beat the LSAP in the majority of communes.\n\nThe ADR's primary political base are the CSV's 'traditional, rural and rightist' voters. Although the ADR is seen to take votes from the right wing of the CSV, more ADR voters declare themselves to be left-wing than either the CSV or DP. Much of the party's support is in the north of the country, where the ADR received its strongest support in the 1999 (16.7%), 2004 (14.7%) and 2009 Chamber elections (10.3%). In 2013 however it received its highest share of the vote in the Est constituency.\n\nDue to the party's original purpose of pension equality, the party's electoral base is pensioners. However, disproportionately many people under the age of 24 also see the ADR in a positive light. ADR is particularly popular on the Internet, despite the party leadership's lack of interest in the medium, due in part to its popularity amongst young people. The party is most popular amongst people earning less than €30,000, and has attracted support from the part of the CSV's core electorate that have been left out of recent economic growth. As with the CSV and LSAP, the ADR is supported by people with less education.\n\nThe party is backed by the third-largest general trade union in the country, the small Neutral Union of Luxembourg Workers (NGL), which has been the driving force behind the ADR. The ADR has also been close to the Luxembourg Association of Retired and Invalid People (LRIV), which formerly backed the Communist Party. The party has used local celebrities, such as Jean-Pierre Koepp in Nord, to boost its appeal.\n\n\nSince its formation, the ADR has had eleven deputies in the Chamber of Deputies. Its three current deputies are given in bold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5390314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5390314", "title": "Anti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations", "text": "Anti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations\n\nAnti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations (A.B.N.) was a co-ordinating center for anti-Communist émigré political organizations from Soviet and other socialist countries. The A.B.N. formation dates back to an underground conference of representatives of non-Russian peoples that took place on November 1943, near Zhytomyr on the initiative of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. During the conference, a platform of joint revolutionary struggle against what the participants called \"Russian communism\" was formulated. The goal of the A.B.N. was to remove communists from power, abolish the Soviet Union and divide it into national states. Given an organizational structure in Munich in 1946, the A.B.N. extended its range of activity and began to include Eastern European emigration from other countries apart from Ukraine. \n\nMember organisation for various times: \n\nThe most active groups among the Bloc were the Ukrainian national organizations.\n\nThe A.B.N. was headed by Yaroslav Stetsko, a Ukrainian nationalist and anti-Soviet politician, from the time of foundation until 1986, the year of his death. Stetsko was succeeded by his widow, Slava Stetsko. The chairmen of the A.B.N. Peoples' Council included V. Bērziņš, V. Kajum-Khan, F. Ďurčanský, F. Farkas de Kisbarnak, and R. Ostrowski. The long-time general secretaries were Dr. Niko Nakashidze and C. Pokorný. \n\nThe headquarters and cells of the A.B.N. organized mass anti-Soviet rallies, protest demonstrations, press conferences, and international congresses, and the distribution of various memoranda. The A.B.N. co-operated with the World Anti-Communist League (WACL) and the European Freedom Council (EFC). Representatives from the A.B.N. and related organizations participated in the congresses of the WACL and EFC.\n\nThe Anti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations was disbanded in 1996 after the collapse of the USSR and Soviet communism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48088418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48088418", "title": "Birgitta Karlström Dorph", "text": "Birgitta Karlström Dorph\n\nBirgitta Karlström Dorph (born 5June 1939) is a Swedish diplomat. She is mostly known for her clandestine work in channeling funds from the Swedish government to the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa during the 1980s.\n\nMärta Birgitta Karlström Dorph grew up in Karlstad where she went to the Tingvallagymnasiet. After graduating she studied in the United States, attended the Stockholm School of Economics and worked in France. She finally entered an education at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs where she remained and worked as a diplomat for 44 years.\n\nDuring twenty of Karlström Dorph's years within the diplomatic corps she worked in Africa where she was stationed in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and Gaborone, Botswana, among other places. In 1982–88, she worked in Pretoria, South Africa.\n\nWhile stationed as second in command at the Swedish legation in Pretoria and working as a diplomat, she also had a secret mission. Her job was to get in contact with the leaders of the then prohibited anti-apartheid movement in South Africa and Namibia, and find ways to transfer money from Sweden to support their cause. The operation was initiated by Olof Palme and the Swedish government. These arrangements were clandestine and were not discussed in public in the Riksdag. A total sum of about SEK 1.6 billion ($200 million) were transferred to the African National Congress and other organizations. Karlström Dorph established a contact net of recipients and ways to transfer the money. Information about the transfers were sent as encrypted telegrams, by couriers or as hidden messages in gifts. The money came mainly from the humanitarian government agency Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) but could not be channeled directly since officially, Sweden was not giving any aid to South Africa.\n\nA significant part of the money was used for legal help in defending black persons accused of breaking any of the apartheid laws that were in effect at the time. This help led to a number of people escaping the death penalty, or had their jail sentences drastically reduced. Money also went to churches, newspapers, unions and women's organizations and the United Democratic Front.\n\nKarlström Dorph has been celebrated as a hero among the South African anti-apartheid activists and she was invited to a birthday party for Nelson Mandela as well as the ANC's centennial celebration.\n\nIn 2015, the Sveriges Television made a documentary about Karlström Dorph called \"Palmes hemliga agent\" (\"Palme's secret agent\").\n\nKarlström Dorph has five children and her husband is deceased. She had kept her mission in South Africa a secret from her family up until the documentary about her was made. She says that when her children saw the film \"They clapped their hands and gave me a high five!\"\n\n, she still works for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs from time to time. She currently lives in Stockholm.\n\n"}
{"id": "23218412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23218412", "title": "Blackboxing", "text": "Blackboxing\n\nIn science studies, the social process of blackboxing is based on the abstract notion of a black box. To cite Bruno Latour, blackboxing is \"the way scientific and technical work is made invisible by its own success. When a machine runs efficiently, when a matter of fact is settled, one need focus only on its inputs and outputs and not on its internal complexity. Thus, paradoxically, the more science and technology succeed, the more opaque and obscure they become.\" \n\nSocial constructivist approaches to science and technology studies, such as Social construction of technology (SCOT) often revolve around \"opening the black box\", or attempting to understand the internal workings of a given system. This then allows the researcher to provide empirical models of technological change that are specific and better able to describe the events that took place during the development of the technology. This approach has also been criticized by scholars such as Langdon Winner for being excessively formulaic in its methods and too narrow in its focus.\n\nThe concept of the \"black box\" is also important in Actor–network theory as it relates to simplification. As Michel Callon notes, an actor-network is a system of discrete entities or nodes, while the reality that it represents is theoretically infinite. Therefore, in order to describe something in terms of an actor-network, complex systems must be simplified down to individual nodes, ignoring their internal workings and focusing only on their interactions with other nodes within the network. However, if the simplified \"black box\" is insufficient modeling the system in question, it must be opened, creating a \"swarm of new actors.\"\n"}
{"id": "52926669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52926669", "title": "Bonnie Hart", "text": "Bonnie Hart\n\nBonnie Hart is an artist, film maker, and intersex human rights activist, born with androgen insensitivity syndrome and president of the Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group Australia. Hart performs nationally and internationally, and speaks on intersex issues nationally and internationally. In 2016, Australia's \"Gay News Network\" included her in their \"25 LGBTI people to watch in 2017\".\n\nHart describes how she was told she experienced \"heteronormative sexual training from a really early age\", through multiple intersex medical interventions. Despite giving consent as a child, she felt unaware of the lifelong implications. Hart describes how stigma \"sets the scene\" for such interventions, \"There’s a fear that people will be maladjusted because their bodies are different, and that fear teamed with the ignorance of the realities of what it’s like to live as an adult with those bodies without surgery, kind of perpetuates a surgical intervention process\". Growing up, Hart did not know that her sister, Phoebe Hart, also had androgen insensitivity syndrome.\n\nHart is a \"high-energy avant-garde performer\" and multidisciplinary artist, assembling digital and analog filmmaking, music, and visual art. She is a cofounder of Venting Gallery and the Foundation for Contemporary Music and Culture in Brisbane, Queensland, and performs with bands including X-wave and the Unaustralians. In the autobiographical documentary \"Orchids, My Intersex Adventure\", Hart and her sister face the traumatic emotional scars from early operations and the secrecy associated with them.\n\nHart is president of the Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group Australia. She has appeared in numerous short videos, including for QLife and the National LGBTI Health Alliance, and SBS. and is widely interviewed, including on national television.\n\nIn 2016, Australia's \"Gay News Network\" included Hart in their \"LGBTI people to watch in 2017\".\n"}
{"id": "11849101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11849101", "title": "Director (colonial)", "text": "Director (colonial)\n\nThe title director has been used in colonial administrations not only as a bureaucratic rank and for the members of a board of directors, but also specifically, as in this article, for the head of the colonial administration of a territory (e.g. protectorate) under indirect rule by a chartered company, functionally equivalent to a governor. \n\nElsewhere, the same function went by the -in principle higher- title director-general, as in Demerara-Essequibo (Dutch Guyana).\n\nDirector, or rather its equivalent in the colonizer's language, was similarly used elsewhere:\n\n"}
{"id": "49759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49759", "title": "Down and Out in Paris and London", "text": "Down and Out in Paris and London\n\nDown and Out in Paris and London is the first full-length work by the English author George Orwell, published in 1933. It is a memoir in two parts on the theme of poverty in the two cities. The first part is an account of living in near-destitution in Paris and the experience of casual labour in restaurant kitchens. The second part is a travelogue of life on the road in and around London from the tramp's perspective, with descriptions of the types of hostel accommodation available and some of the characters to be found living on the margins.\n\nAfter giving up his post as a policeman in Burma to become a writer, Orwell moved to rooms in Portobello Road, London at the end of 1927 when he was 24. While contributing to various journals, he undertook investigative tramping expeditions in and around London, collecting material for use in \"The Spike\", his first published essay, and for the latter half of \"Down and Out in Paris and London\". In spring of 1928 he moved to Paris and lived at 6 Rue du Pot de Fer in the Latin Quarter, a bohemian quarter with a cosmopolitan flavour. American writers like Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald had lived in the same area. Following the Russian Revolution, there was a large Russian emigre community in Paris. Orwell's aunt Nellie Limouzin also lived in Paris and gave him social and, when necessary, financial support. He led an active social life, worked on his novels and had several articles published in avant-garde journals.\n\nOrwell fell seriously ill in March 1929 and shortly afterwards had money stolen from the lodging house. The thief was probably not the young Italian described in \"Down and Out\". In a later account, he said the theft was the work of a young trollop that he had picked up and brought back with him; it has been submitted that \"consideration for his parents' sensibilities would have required the suppression of this misadventure. Whoever reduced Orwell to destitution did him a good turn; his final ten weeks in Paris sowed the seed of his first published book.\" Whether through necessity or just to collect material, and probably both, he undertook casual work as a dishwasher in restaurants. In August 1929 he sent a copy of \"The Spike\" to the \"Adelphi\" magazine in London, and it was accepted for publication. Orwell left Paris in December 1929 and returned to England, going straight home to his parents' house in Southwold. Later he acted as a private tutor to a handicapped child there and also undertook further tramping expeditions, culminating in a stint working in the Kent hop fields in August and September 1931. After this adventure, he ended up in the Tooley Street kip, which he found so unpleasant that he wrote home for money and moved to more comfortable lodgings.\n\nOrwell's first version of \"Down and Out\" was called \"A Scullion's Diary\". Completed in October 1930, it used only his Paris material. He offered it to Jonathan Cape in the summer of 1931. Cape rejected it in the autumn. A year later he offered \"a fatter typescript (the London chapters had been added)\" to Faber & Faber, where T. S. Eliot, then an editorial director, also rejected it, stating, \"We did find it of very great interest, but I regret to say that it does not appear to me possible as a publishing venture.\"\n\nIt was in the home of Mabel Fierz that Orwell then discarded the typescript. She had, with her husband, a London businessman named Francis, been for a number of years a visitor to Southwold in the summer and was on friendly terms with the Blairs. Fierz at this point took it to a literary agent, Leonard Moore, who \"recognised it as a 'natural' for the new house of Gollancz.\" Victor Gollancz was prepared to publish the work, subject to the removal of bad language and some identifiable names, and offered an advance of £40. The title improvised by Gollancz, \"Confessions of a Down and Outer\", bothered Orwell. \"Would \"The Confessions of a Dishwasher\" do as well?\" he asked Moore. \"I would \"rather\" answer to \"dishwasher\" than \"down & out\".\" At the last minute, Gollancz shortened the title to \"Down and Out in Paris and London\". The author, after possibilities including \"X,\" \"P.S. Burton\" (an alias Orwell had used on tramping expeditions), \"Kenneth Miles\" and \"H. Lewis Allways\" had been considered, was renamed \"George Orwell.\" Orwell did not wish to publish under his own name Eric Blair, and Orwell was the name he used from then on for his main works—although many periodical articles were still published under the name Eric Blair. \"Down and Out in Paris and London\" was published on 9 January 1933 and received favourable reviews from, among others, C. Day Lewis, WH Davies, Compton Mackenzie and JB Priestley. It was subsequently published by Harper & Brothers in New York. Sales were low, however, until December 1940, when Penguin Books printed 55,000 copies for sale at sixpence.\n\nA French translation, which Orwell admired, by RN Raimbault and Gwen Gilbert, entitled \"\", was published by Éditions Gallimard, on 2 May 1935, with a preface by Panait Istrati and an introduction by Orwell.\n\nThe scene-setting opening chapters describe the atmosphere in the Paris quarter and introduce various characters who appear later in the book. From Chapter III to Chapter X, where the narrator obtains a job at \"Hotel X,\" he describes his descent into poverty, often in tragi-comic terms. An Italian compositor forges room keys and steals his savings and his scant income vanishes when the English lessons he is giving stop. He begins at first to sell some of his clothes, and then to pawn his remaining clothes, and then searches for work with a Russian waiter named Boris—work as a porter at Les Halles, work as an English teacher and restaurant work. He recounts his two-day experience without any food and tells of meeting Russian \"Communists\" who, he later concludes, on their disappearance, must be mere swindlers.\n\nAfter the various ordeals of unemployment and hunger the narrator obtains a job as a \"plongeur\" (dishwasher) in the \"Hôtel X\" near the Place de la Concorde, and begins to work long hours there. In Chapter XIII, he describes the \"caste system\" of the hotel—\"manager-cooks-waiters-plongeurs\"—and, in Chapter XIV, its frantic and seemingly chaotic workings. He notes also \"the dirt in the Hôtel X.,\" which became apparent \"as soon as one penetrated into the service quarters.\" He talks of his routine life among the working poor of Paris, slaving and sleeping, and then drinking on Saturday night through the early hours of Sunday morning. In Chapter XVI, he refers briefly to a murder committed \"just beneath my window [while he was sleeping ... The thing that strikes me in looking back,\" he says, \"is that I was in bed and asleep within three minutes of the murder [...] We were working people, and where was the sense of wasting sleep over a murder?\"\n\nMisled by Boris's optimism, the narrator is briefly penniless again after he and Boris quit their hotel jobs in the expectation of work at a new restaurant, the \"Auberge de Jehan Cottard,\" where Boris feels sure he will become a waiter again; at the Hotel X, he had been doing lower-grade work. The \"patron\" of the Auberge, \"an ex-colonel of the Russian Army,\" seems to have financial difficulties. The narrator is not paid for ten days and is compelled to spend a night on a bench—\"It was very uncomfortable—the arm of the seat cuts into your back—and much colder than I had expected\"—rather than face his landlady over the outstanding rent.\n\nAt the restaurant, the narrator finds himself working \"seventeen and a half hours\" a day, \"almost without a break,\" and looking back wistfully at his relatively leisured and orderly life at the Hotel X. Boris works even longer: \"eighteen hours a day, seven days a week.\" The narrator claims that \"such hours, though not usual, are nothing extraordinary in Paris.\" He adds\n\nby the way, that the Auberge was not the ordinary cheap eating-house frequented by students and workmen. We did not provide an adequate meal at less than twenty-five francs, and we were picturesque and artistic, which sent up our social standing. There were the indecent pictures in the bar, and the Norman decorations—sham beams on the walls, electric lights done up as candlesticks, \"peasant\" pottery, even a mounting-block at the door—and the \"patron\" and the head waiter were Russian officers, and many of the customers titled Russian refugees. In short, we were decidedly chic.\n\nHe falls into a routine again and speaks of quite literally fighting for a place on the Paris Métro to reach the \"cold, filthy kitchen\" by seven. Despite the filth and incompetence, the restaurant turns out to be a success.\n\nThe narrative is interspersed with anecdotes recounted by some of the minor characters, such as Valenti, an Italian waiter at Hotel X, and Charlie, \"one of the local curiosities,\" who is \"a youth of family and education who had run away from home.\" In Chapter XXII, the narrator considers the life of a \"plongeur\":\n\n[A] \"plongeur\" is one of the slaves of the modern world. Not that there is any need to whine over him, for he is better off than many manual workers, but still, he is no freer than if he were bought and sold. His work is servile and without art; he is paid just enough to keep him alive; his only holiday is the sack [... He has] been trapped by a routine which makes thought impossible. If \"plongeurs\" thought at all, they would long ago have formed a labour union and gone on strike for better treatment. But they do not think, because they have no leisure for it; their life has made slaves of them.\n\nBecause of the stress of the long hours, he mails to a friend, \"B,\" back in London, asking if he could get him a job that allows more than five hours' sleep a night. His friend duly replies, offering a job taking care of a \"congenital imbecile,\" and sends him some money to get his possessions from the pawn. The narrator then quits his job as a \"plongeur\" and leaves for London.\n\nThe narrator arrives in London expecting to have the job waiting for him. Unfortunately the would-be employers have gone abroad, \"patient and all.\"\n\nUntil his employers return, the narrator lives as a tramp, sleeping in an assortment of venues: lodging houses, tramps' hostels or \"spikes,\" and Salvation Army shelters. Because vagrants can not \"enter any one spike, or any two London spikes, more than once in a month, on pain of being confined for a week,\" he is required to keep on the move, with the result that long hours are spent tramping or waiting for hostels to open. Chapters XXV to XXXV describe his various journeys, the different forms of accommodation, a selection of the people he meets, and the tramps' reaction to Christian charity: \"Evidently the tramps were not grateful for their free tea. And yet it was excellent [...] I am sure too that it was given in a good spirit, without any intention of humiliating us; so in fairness we ought to have been grateful—still, we were not.\" Characters in this section of the book include the Irish tramp called Paddy, \"a good fellow\" whose \"ignorance was limitless and appalling,\" and the pavement artist Bozo, who has a good literary background and was formerly an amateur astronomer, but who has suffered a succession of misfortunes.\n\nThe final chapters provide a catalogue of various types of accommodation open to tramps. The narrator offers some general remarks, concluding,\n\nAt present I do not feel that I have seen more than the fringe of poverty. Still, I can point to one or two things I have definitely learned by being hard up. I shall never again think that all tramps are drunken scoundrels, nor expect a beggar to be grateful when I give him a penny, nor be surprised if men out of work lack energy, nor subscribe to the Salvation Army, nor pawn my clothes, nor refuse a handbill, nor enjoy a meal at a smart restaurant. That is a beginning.\n\nOne of the debates surrounding \"Down and Out\" is whether it was a piece of factual autobiography or part fiction. Orwell wrote in the Introduction to the 1935 French edition: \"I think I can say that I have exaggerated nothing except in so far as all writers exaggerate by selecting. I did not feel that I had to describe events in the exact order in which they happened, but everything I have described did take place at one time or another.\" In Chapter XXIV, it is \"clear that Orwell did distort facts by claiming on his return from Paris he found himself down and out in London and had not 'the slightest notion of how to get a cheap bed'. This of course heightens the tension [...] but the truth is that in Paris he had already written his first substantial essay, \"The Spike\", describing a night spent in a Notting Hill tramps' hostel. Before his departure from England he had voluntarily lived among tramps for some time.\"\n\nIn \"The Road to Wigan Pier\", Orwell referred to the tramping experiences described in \"Down and Out\", writing that \"nearly all the incidents described there actually happened, though they have been re-arranged.\" Some measure of the work's veracity may be gleaned from a marked-up copy, containing sixteen annotations, which Orwell gave to Brenda Salkeld. Of the descent into poverty from Chapter III, he wrote, \"Succeeding chapters are not actually autobiography but drawn from what I have seen.\" Of Chapter VII, however, he wrote, \"This all happened;\" of Hotel X, \"All as exact as I could make it;\" and, of the Russian restaurant, \"All the following is an entirely accurate description of the restaurant.\" On the personalities, Orwell's own introduction to the French edition states that the characters are individuals, but are \"intended more as representative types.\"\n\nThe luxury hotel in which Orwell worked in the autumn of 1929 was identified as the Crillon by Sonia Orwell, as recounted by Sam White, the London \"Evening Standard\"'s Paris correspondent in his column for 16 June 1967. However, the writers Stansky and Abrahams have suggested, in their study of Orwell, that it was the Hotel Lotti.\n\nWithin a month of publication, Humbert Possenti, \"a restaurateur and hotelier of forty years,\" had written to \"The Times\" complaining that the book was unfairly disparaging to the restaurant trade. The \"Times Literary Supplement\" had previously reviewed \"Down and Out in Paris and London\", describing it as \"a vivid picture of an apparently mad world.\" Orwell responded to the restaurateur's criticism with a letter to the same newspaper: \"I do know that in our hotel there were places which no customer could possibly have been allowed to see with any hope of retaining his custom.\"\n\nIn the \"Adelphi\", C. Day Lewis wrote, \"Orwell's book is a tour of the underworld, conducted without hysteria or prejudice [...] a model of clarity and good sense.\" JB Priestley, in the \"Evening Standard\", considered it \"uncommonly good reading. An excellent book and a valuable social document. The best book of its kind I have read in a long time.\" Compton Mackenzie wrote of Orwell's \"immensely interesting book [...] a genuine human document, which at the same time is written with so much artistic force that, in spite of the squalor and degradation thus unfolded, the result is curiously beautiful with the beauty of an accomplished etching on copper. The account of a casual ward in this country horrifies like some scene of inexplicable misery in Dante.\"\n\nFollowing the American publication, James T. Farrell, writing in \"The New Republic\", called it \"genuine, unexaggerated and intelligent,\" while Herbert Gorman wrote for the \"New York Times Book Review\", \"He possesses a keen eye for character and a rough-and-ready 'styleless style' that plunges along and makes the reader see what the author wants him to see.\" In contrast, the reviewer for \"New English Weekly\" wrote, \"This book [...] is forcefully written and is very readable, yet it fails to carry conviction. We wonder if the author was really down and out. Down certainly, but out?\"\n\nCyril Connolly later wrote, \"I don't think \"Down and Out in London and Paris\" is more than agreeable journalism; it was all better done by his friend Henry Miller. Orwell found his true form a few years later.\" Orwell agreed with this assessment. Henry Miller's controversial work \"Tropic of Cancer\" (1934) is based on his own experiences in Paris around the time Orwell was there.\n\nIn an essay for the 1971 \"The World of George Orwell\", Richard Mayne considered the book as typical of something that was true of a great deal of Orwell's later writing: his \"relish at revealing behind-the-scenes squalor. He was always taking the lid off things—poverty, parlour Socialism, life in a coal mine, prep-school tyranny, the Empire, the Spanish Civil War, the Russian Revolution, the political misuse of language. He might well have echoed W.H. Auden: \"All I have is a voice/To undo the folded lie.\"\"\n\nThe narrator's comments on Jews in the book are cited by a journalist for \"Haaretz\" when considering what he terms \"Orwell’s latent anti-Semitism\". Some suggest the work may have been Orwell's parody of his own social upbringing and social class, noticing the narrator has both racist and anti-racist outbursts. Another commentator cites the book as evidence that anti-Semitism was much more prevalent in Paris than in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265601", "title": "Drug Efficacy Study Implementation", "text": "Drug Efficacy Study Implementation\n\nDrug Efficacy Study Implementation (DESI) was a program begun by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the 1960s after the requirement (in the Kefauver-Harris Drug Control Act) that all drugs be efficacious as well as safe, was made part of US law. The DESI program was intended to classify all pre-1962 drugs that were already on the market as either effective, ineffective, or needing further study. The Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (DESI) evaluated over 3000 separate products and over 16,000 therapeutic claims. By 1984, final action had been completed on 3,443 products; of these, 2,225 were found to be effective, 1,051 were found not effective, and 167 were pending.\n\nOne of the early effects of the DESI study was the development of the Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5860060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5860060", "title": "Dual accreditation", "text": "Dual accreditation\n\nDual accreditation is the practice in diplomacy of a country granting two separate responsibilities to a single diplomat. One prominent form of dual accreditation is for a diplomat to serve as the ambassador to two countries concurrently. For example, Luxembourg's Ambassador to the United States is also the non-resident Ambassador to Canada and the non-resident Ambassador to Mexico.\n\nSuch an Ambassador may sometimes be called Ambassador-at-Large.\n"}
{"id": "31649474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31649474", "title": "Ethnic minorities in Czechoslovakia", "text": "Ethnic minorities in Czechoslovakia\n\nThis article describes ethnic minorities in Czechoslovakia from 1918 until 1992.\n\nCzechoslovakia was founded as a country in the aftermath of World War I with its borders set out in the Treaty of Trianon and Treaty of Versailles, though the new borders were de facto established about a year prior. One of the main objects of these treaties was to secure independence for minorities previously living within the Kingdom of Hungary or to reunify them with an existent nation-state.\n\nHowever some territorial claims were based on economic grounds instead of ethnic ones, for instance the Czechoslovak borders with Poland (to include coal fields and a railway connection between Bohemia and Slovakia) and Hungary (on economic and strategic grounds), which resulted in successor states with percentages of minorities almost as high as in Austria-Hungary before. Czechoslovakia had the highest proportion of minorities, who constituted 32.4% of the population.\n\nAfter WWII the Jewish and Romani minorities had been exterminated by the Nazis, and most Germans and many Hungarians were expelled under the Beneš decrees. Other minority groups migrated to Czechoslovakia, Roma from Hungary and Romania, Bulgarians fleeing the Soviet troops, Greeks and Macedonians fleeing the Greek Civil War, then migrant workers and students came from other Communist bloc countries, Vietnamese and Koreans.\n\nAccording to article 128 §3 of the 1920 Constitution \"Citizens of the Czechoslovak Republic may, within the limits of the common law, freely use any language they chose in private and business intercourse, in all matters pertaining to religion, in the press and in all publications whatsoever, or in public assemblies.\"\n\nThese rights were also provided for in article 57 of the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye in 1919: \"The Czecho-Slovak State accepts and agrees to embody in a Treaty with the Principal Allied and Associated Powers such provision as may be deemed necessary by these Powers to protect the interests of inhabitants of that State who differ from the majority of the population in race, language or religion.\"\n\n\"In addition, the Language act granted minorities the right to address courts, offices and state organs in their own language, but only in communities where that national minority comprised more than 20 percent of the population.\"\nThe proceedings in the parliament were held either in the official languages of Czechoslovakia, Czech and Slovak, or in one of the recognized minority languages. Practically, everyone spoke his own language.\n\nA Government Council for Nationalities was established in 1968 in the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic according to Article 5 of the Constitutional Law No. 144/1968.\n\nAfter the World War I, the Czechs outnumbered Slovaks two to one in the new Czechoslovak state. The Slovaks lived in the shadow of the more internationally recognized Czech leadership and the great capital of Prague. The relationship between the Czechs and Slovaks was asymmetrical: Slovakia was considered an agrarian appendage to the highly industrial Czech nation, and the Czechs viewed Slovak culture as lacking in maturity and refinement. The languages of the two nations are closely related and mutually intelligible, many Czechs viewed Slovak as a caricature of Czech.\nIn his 1934 memoirs, the President of Czechoslovakia, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, writes he said in a 1924 interview to a French journalist of \"Le Petit Parisien\": «There is no Slovak nation, it has been invented by Hungarian propaganda. The Czechs and Slovaks are brothers. They understand each other perfectly. All that separates them is the cultural level - the Czechs are more developed than the Slovaks, because the Magyars kept them in the dark. (...) In one generation there will be no difference between the two branches of our national family.» However the interview is nowhere to be found in the scanned full archives of Le Petit Parisien.\n\nThere were two German minorities in the interwar Czechoslovakian Republic, the Sudeten Germans in Bohemia and Moravia (present-day Czech republic) and the Carpathian Germans in Slovakia and Subcarpathian Ruthenia (present-day Ukraine).\n\nIn addition, there was a sizeable German-speaking urban Jewish minority, and several Jewish politicians were elected as members of German minority parties like the German Social Democratic Workers Party in the Czechoslovak Republic or the German Democratic Liberal Party.\n\nHungarians (and other minorities e.g. Germans and Rusyns) were excluded from the constituent assembly, barring them from having any influence on the new Czechoslovak constitution.\nLater on, all the minorities gained the right to use their languages in municipalities where they constituted at least 20% of the population even in communication with government offices and courts. However due to gerrymandering and disproportionate distribution of population between Bohemia and Slovakia the Hungarians had little (if any) representation in the National Assembly and thus their influence on the politics of Czechoslovakia remained limited. The same considerations have limited the Slovak intelligentsia's political power as well.\n\nDuring communism there were no signs of organized Jewish life and the situation was similar to others communities of Central and Eastern Europe controlled directly by state. Most of the Jewish left the country for Israel or the United States who wanted to follow Jewish lives and freedom. For many years there has been no religious leadership.\n\nAfter the World War I, the Roma people formed an ethnic community, living on the social periphery of the mainstream population. The state always focused on the Roma population not as a distinct ethnic minority, but rather perceived it as a particularly anti-social and criminal group. This attitude was reflected in the policy of collecting special police evidence—fingerprint collections of members of Romany groups (1925), a law about wandering Roma (1927). \nRacism was not an unknown phenomenon under communism. Roma people were forced to resettle in small groups around the country left them isolated. This policy of the state was oriented toward one of assimilation of the Roma people (in 1958, Law No. 74, \"On the permanent settlement of nomadic and semi-nomadic people\"), forcibly limited the movement of that part of the Roma (perhaps 5%-10%) who still traveled on a regular basis. In the same year, the highest organ of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia passed a resolution, the aim of which was to be \"the final assimilation of the Gypsy population\". The \"Gypsy question\" was decreased to a \"problem of a socially-backward section of the population\". During this period, the governments actively supported sterilisation and abortion for Roma women and the policy was not repealed until 1991.\nThe popular perception of Romani even before 1989 was of lazy, dirty criminals who abused social services and posed a significant threat to majority values.\n\nAfter the World War II, the Rusyn nationality was declared to be Ukrainian in Czechoslovakia. The Rusyns refused Ukrainian identity, instead declaring their nationality as Slovak. Rusyn cultural institutions were changed to Ukrainian, and the usage of the Rusyn language in official communications ceased. Most settlement had only a Slovak-language school and a Slovak identity and orientation were adopted by most of the Rusyn populace, and they were, in effect, de-nationalized.\n\n\nMaps showing the ethnic, linguistic or religious diversity are to be considered with much precaution as they may reflect the national or ideological beliefs of their author(s), or simply include errors. The same can be said about ethnic, linguistic or religious censuses, as the governments that organize them are not necessarily neutral.\n"}
{"id": "2348980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348980", "title": "European Union Emission Trading Scheme", "text": "European Union Emission Trading Scheme\n\nThe European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS), also known as the \"European Union Emissions Trading Scheme\", was the first large greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme in the world, and remains the biggest. It was launched in 2005 to fight Global warming and is a major pillar of EU climate policy. As of 2013, the EU ETS covers more than 11,000 factories, power stations, and other installations with a net heat excess of 20 MW in 31 countries—all 28 EU member states plus Iceland, Norway, and Liechtenstein. In 2008, the installations regulated by the EU ETS were collectively responsible for close to half of the EU's anthropogenic emissions of CO and 40% of its total greenhouse gas emissions. By 2020 the EU hopes to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared with 1990 and to increase energy efficiency by 20%.\n\nUnder the 'cap and trade' principle, a maximum (cap) is set on the total amount of greenhouse gases that can be emitted by all participating installations. \"Allowances\" for emissions are then auctioned off or allocated for free, and can subsequently be traded. Installations must monitor and report their CO emissions, ensuring they hand in enough allowances to the authorities to cover their emissions. If emission exceeds what is permitted by its allowances, an installation must purchase allowances from others. Conversely, if an installation has performed well at reducing its emissions, it can sell its leftover credits. This allows the system to find the most cost-effective ways of reducing emissions without significant government intervention.\n\nThe scheme has been divided into a number of \"trading periods\". The first ETS trading period lasted three years, from January 2005 to December 2007. The second trading period ran from January 2008 until December 2012, coinciding with the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. The third trading period began in January 2013 and will span until December 2020. Compared to 2005, when the EU ETS was first implemented, the proposed caps for 2020 represents a 21% reduction of greenhouse gases. This target has been reached six years early as emissions in the ETS fell to 1812 mln tonnes in 2014.\n\nThe EU ETS has seen a number of significant changes, with the first trading period described as a 'learning by doing' phase. \nPhase III sees a turn to auctioning more permits rather than allocating freely (in 2013, over 40% of the allowances were auctioned); harmonisation of rules for the remaining allocations; and the inclusion of other greenhouse gases, such as nitrous oxide and perfluorocarbons. In 2012, the EU ETS was also extended to the airline industry, though this only applies within the EEA. The price of EU ETS carbon credits has been lower than intended, with a large surplus of allowances, in part because of the impact of the recent economic crisis on demand. In 2012, the Commission said it would delay the auctioning of some allowances. Currently legislation is under way which would introduce a Market Stability Reserve to the EU ETS that adjusts the annual supply of CO2 permits based on the CO2 permits in circulation. European Parliament recently backed former MEP Ian Duncan’s proposals to revise the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to cut emissions across Europe. The new scheme will impose a cap on carbon emissions for 31 countries. \n\nOverall, since its conception, the EU ETS has been characterized by relatively high levels of policy uncertainty. This uncertainty has been both technical, in terms of its detailed rules and procedures, and political, in terms of its public, industry, and governmental support. As a result, the scheme has resulted in a rather informal and tepid response by regulated organizations.\n\nThe first phase of EU ETS was created to operate apart from international climate change treaties such as the pre-existing United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC, 1992) or the Kyoto Protocol that was subsequently (1997) established under it. When the Kyoto Protocol came into force on 16 February 2005, Phase I of the EU ETS had already become operational. The EU later agreed to incorporate Kyoto flexible mechanism certificates as compliance tools within the EU ETS. The \"Linking Directive\" allows operators to use a certain amount of Kyoto certificates from flexible mechanism projects in order to cover their emissions.\n\nThe Kyoto flexible mechanisms are:\n\nIET is relevant as the reductions achieved through CDM projects are a compliance tool for EU ETS operators. These Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) can be obtained by implementing emission reduction projects in developing countries, outside the EU, that have ratified (or acceded to) the Kyoto Protocol. The implementation of Clean Development Projects is largely specified by the Marrakech Accords, a follow-on set of agreements by the Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol.\nThe legislators of the EU ETS drew up the scheme independently but called on the experiences gained during the running of the voluntary UK Emissions Trading Scheme in the previous years, and collaborated with other parties to ensure its units and mechanisms were compatible with the design agreed through the UNFCCC.\n\nUnder the EU ETS, the governments of the EU Member States agree on national emission caps which have to be approved by the EU commission. Those countries then allocate allowances to their industrial operators, and track and validate the actual emissions in accordance with the relevant assigned amount. They require the allowances to be retired after the end of each year.\n\nThe operators within the ETS may reassign or trade their allowances by several means:\n\nLike any other financial instrument, trading consists of matching buyers and sellers between members of the exchange and then settling by depositing a valid allowance in exchange for the agreed financial consideration. Much like a stock market, companies and private individuals can trade through brokers who are listed on the exchange, and need not be regulated operators.\n\nWhen each change of ownership of an allowance is proposed, the national registry and the European Commission are informed in order for them to validate the transaction. During Phase II of the EU ETS, the UNFCCC also validates the allowance and any change that alters the distribution within each national allocation plan.\n\nLike the Kyoto trading scheme, EU ETS allows a regulated operator to use carbon credits in the form of Emission Reduction Units (ERU) to comply with its obligations. A Kyoto Certified Emission Reduction unit (CER), produced by a carbon project that has been certified by the UNFCCC's Clean Development Mechanism Executive Board, or Emission Reduction Unit (ERU) certified by the Joint Implementation project's host country or by the Joint Implementation Supervisory Committee, are accepted by the EU as equivalent.\n\nThus one EU Allowance Unit of one tonne of CO, or \"EUA\", was designed to be identical (\"fungible\") with the equivalent \"Assigned Amount Unit\" (AAU) of CO defined under Kyoto. Hence, because of the EU's decision to accept Kyoto-CERs as equivalent to EU-EUA's, it is possible to trade EUA's and UNFCCC-validated CERs on a one-to-one basis within the same system. (However, the EU was not able to link trades from all its countries until 2008-9 because of its technical problems connecting to the UN systems.)\n\nDuring Phase II of the EU ETS, the operators within each Member State must surrender their allowances for inspection by the EU before they can be \"retired\" by the UNFCCC.\n\nThe total number of permits issued (either auctioned or allocated) determines the supply for the allowances. The actual price is determined by the market. Too many allowances compared to demand will result in a low carbon price, and reduced emission abatement efforts. Too few allowances will result in too high a carbon price.\n\nFor each EU ETS Phase, the total quantity to be allocated by each Member State is defined in the National Allocation Plan (equivalent to its UNFCCC-defined carbon account.) The European Commission has oversight of the NAP process and decides if the NAP fulfills the twelve criteria set out in the Annex III of the Emission Trading Directive (EU Directive 2003/87/EC). The first and foremost criterion is that the proposed total quantity is in line with a Member State's Kyoto target.\n\nOf course, the Member State's plan can, and should, also take account of emission levels in other sectors not covered by the EU ETS, and address these within its own domestic policies. For instance, transport is responsible for 21% of EU greenhouse gas emissions, households, and small businesses for 17% and agriculture for 10%.\n\nDuring Phase I, most allowances in all countries were given freely (known as grandfathering). This approach has been criticized as giving rise to windfall profits, being less efficient than auctioning, and providing too little incentive for innovative new competition to provide clean, renewable energy. On the other hand, allocation rather than auctioning may be justified for a few sectors that face international competition like the aluminium and steel industries.\n\nTo address these problems, the European Commission proposed various changes in a January 2008 package, including the abolishment of NAPs from 2013 and auctioning a far greater share (ca. 60% in 2013, growing afterward) of emission permits.\n\nFrom the start of Phase III (January 2013) there will be a centralised allocation of permits, not National Allocation Plans, with a greater share of auctioning of permits.\n\nAllocation can act as a means of addressing concerns over loss of competitiveness, and possible \"leakage\" (carbon leakage) of emissions outside the EU. Leakage is the effect of emissions increasing in countries or sectors that have weaker regulation of emissions than the regulation in another country or sector. Such concerns affect the following sectors: cement, steel, aluminium, pulp and paper, basic inorganic chemicals and fertilisers/ammonia. Leakage from these sectors was thought to be under 1% of total EU emissions. Correcting for leakage by allocating permits acts as a temporary subsidy for affected industries, but does not fix the underlying problem. Border adjustments would be the economically efficient choice, where imports are taxed according to their carbon content. One problem with border adjustments is that they might be used as a disguise for trade protectionism. Some adjustments may also not prevent emissions leakage.\n\nWithin a certain trading period, banking and borrowing is allowed. For example, a 2006 EUA can be used in 2007 (banking) or in 2005 (borrowing). Interperiod borrowing is not allowed. Member states had the discretion to decide whether banking EUAs from Phase I to Phase II was allowed.\n\nIn the first phase (2005–2007), the EU ETS included some 12,000 installations, representing approximately 40% of EU CO emissions, covering energy activities (combustion installations with a rated thermal input exceeding 20 MW, mineral oil refineries, coke ovens), production and processing of ferrous metals, mineral industry (cement clinker, glass and ceramic bricks) and pulp, paper and board activities.\n\nThe ETS, in which all 15 Member States that were then members of the European Union participated, nominally commenced operation on 1 January 2005, although national registries were unable to settle transactions for the first few months. However, the prior existence of the UK Emissions Trading Scheme meant that market participants were already in place and ready. In its first year, 362 million tonnes of CO were traded on the market for a sum of €7.2 billion, and a large number of futures and options.\n\nThe price of allowances increased more or less steadily to a peak level in April 2006 of about €30 per tonne CO. In late April 2006, a number of EU countries (the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Belgium, France, and Spain) announced that their verified (or actual) emissions were less than the number of allowances allocated to installations. The spot price for EU allowances dropped 54% from €29.20 to €13.35 in the last week of April 2006. In May 2006, the European Commission confirmed that verified CO emissions were about 80 million tonnes or 4% lower than the number of allowances distributed to installations for 2005 emissions. In May 2006, prices fell to under €10/tonne. Lack of scarcity under the first phase of the system continued through 2006 resulting in a trading price of €1.2 per tonne in March 2007, declining to €0.10 in September 2007. In 2007, carbon prices for the trial phase dropped to near zero for most of the year. Meanwhile, prices for Phase II remained significantly higher throughout, reflecting the fact that allowances for the trial phase were set to expire by 31 December 2007.\n\nVerified emissions show a net increase over the first phase of the scheme. For the countries for which data was available, emissions increased by 1.9% between 2005 and 2007 (at the time all 27 member states minus Romania, Bulgaria, and Malta).\n\nConsequently, observers have accused national governments of abusing the system under industry pressure, and have urged for far stricter caps in the second phase (2008–2012).\n\nThe second phase (2008–12) expanded the scope of the scheme significantly. In 2007, three non-EU members, Norway, Iceland, and Liechtenstein joined the scheme. The EU's \"Linking Directive\" introduced the CDM and JI credits. Although this was a theoretical possibility in phase I, the over-allocation of permits combined with the inability to bank them for use in the second phase meant it was not taken up.\n\nOn 27 April 2012, the European Commission announced the full activation of the EU Emissions Trading System single registry. The full activation process will include the migration of over 30,000 EU ETS accounts from national registries. The EC has further stated that the single registry to be activated in June will not contain all the required functionalities for phase III of the EU ETS.\n\nAviation emissions were to be included from 2012. The inclusion of aviation was considered important by the EU. The inclusion of aviation was estimated to increase in demand for allowances by about 10–12 million tonnes of CO per year in phase two. According to DEFRA, an increased use of JI credits from projects in Russia and Ukraine, would offset any increase in prices so there would be no discernible impact on average annual CO prices.\n\nThe airline industry and other countries including China, India, Russia, and the United States reacted adversely to the inclusion of the aviation sector. The United States and other countries argued that the EU did not have jurisdiction to regulate flights when they were not in European skies; China and the United States threatened to ban their national carriers from complying with the scheme. On 27 November 2012 the United States enacted the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme Prohibition Act of 2011 which prohibits U.S. carriers from participating in the European Union Emission Trading Scheme. China threatened to withhold $60 billion in outstanding orders from Airbus, which in turn led to France pressuring the EU to freeze the scheme.\n\nThe EU insisted that the regulation should be applied equally to all carriers, and that it did not contravene international regulations. In the absence of a global agreement on airline emissions, the EU argued that it was forced to go ahead with its own scheme. But only flights within the EEA are covered; international flights are not.\n\nUltimately, the Commission intended that the third trading period should cover all greenhouse gases and all sectors, including aviation, maritime transport, and forestry. For the transport sector, the large number of individual users adds complexities, but might be implemented either as a cap-and-trade system for fuel suppliers or a baseline-and-credit system for car manufacturers.\n\nThe National Allocation Plans for Phase II, the first of which were announced on 29 November 2006, provided for an average reduction of nearly 7% below the 2005 emission levels. However, the use of offsets such as Emission Reduction Units from JI and Certified Emission Reductions from CDM projects was allowed, with the result that the EU would be able to meet the Phase II cap by importing units instead of reducing emissions (CCC, 2008, pp. 145, 149).\n\nAccording to verified EU data from 2008, the ETS resulted in an emissions reduction of 3%, or 50 million tons. At least 80 million tons of \"carbon offsets\" were bought for compliance with the scheme.\n\nIn late 2006, European Commission started infringement proceedings against Austria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Hungary, Italy and Spain, for failure to submit their proposed National Allocation Plans on time.\n\nThe annual Member State CO yearly allowances in million tonnes are shown in the table:\n\nThe carbon price within Phase II increased to over €20/tCO in the first half of 2008 (CCC, 2008, p. 149). The average price was €22/tCO in the second half of 2008, and €13/tCO in the first half of 2009. CCC (2009, p. 67) gave two reasons for this fall in prices:\n\nProjections made in 2009 indicate that like Phase I, Phase II would see a surplus in allowances and that 2009 carbon prices were being sustained by the need to 'bank' allowances in order to surrender them in the tougher third phase. In December 2009, carbon prices dropped to a six-month low after the Copenhagen climate summit outcome disappointed traders. Prices for EU allowances for December 2010 delivery dropped 8.7% to 12.40 euros a tonne.\n\nIn March 2012, according to the periodical \"Economist\", the EUA permit price under the EU ETS had \"tanked\" and was too low to provide incentives for firms to reduce emissions. The permit price had been persistently under €10 per tonne compared to nearly €30 per tonne in 2008. The market had been oversupplied with permits. In June 2012, EU allowances for delivery in December 2012 traded at 6.76 euros each on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, a 61 percent decline compared with a year previously.\n\nIn July 2012, Thomson Reuters Point Carbon stated that it considered that without intervention to reduce the supply of allowances, the price of allowances would fall to four Euros. The 2012 closing price for an EU allowance with a December 2013 contract ended the year at 6.67 euros a metric tonne. In late January 2013, the EU allowance price fell to a new record low of 2.81 euros after the energy and industry committee of the European parliament opposed a proposal to withhold 900 million future-dated allowances from the market.\n\nFor Phase III (2013–2020), the European Commission has proposed a number of changes, including (CCC, 2008, p. 149):\n\nAs well as more sectors and gases included in Phase III. Also, millions of allowances set aside in the New Entrants Reserve(NER) to fund the deployment of innovative renewable energy technologies and carbon capture and storage through the NER 300 programme,one of the world's largest funding programmes for innovative low-carbon energy demonstration projects.\nThe programme is conceived as a catalyst for the demonstration of environmentally safe carbon capture and storage (CCS) and innovative renewable energy (RES) technologies on a commercial scale within the European Union.\n\nAhead of its accession to the EU, Croatia joined the ETS at the start of Phase III on 1 January 2013. This took the number of countries in the EU ETS to 31.\n\nOn 4 January 2013, European Union allowances for 2013 traded on London's ICE Futures Europe exchange for between 6.22 euros and 6.40 euros.\n\nPhase IV will commence on 1 January 2021 and finish on 31 December 2028. The European Commission plans a full review of the Directive by 2026.\n\nOn 22 January 2014, the European Commission proposed two structural reform amendments to the ETS directive (2003/87/EC) of the 2008 Climate Package to be agreed on in the Council Conclusions on 20–21 March 2014 by the Heads of EU Member States at the meeting of the European Council:\n\n\nConnie Hedegaard, the EU Commissioner for Climate Change, hoped \"to link up the ETS with compatible systems around the world to form the backbone of a global carbon market\" with Australia cited as an example. However, as the COP 19 Climate Conference again ended with no binding new international agreement in 2013, Australia has dismantled its ETS system.\n\nBefore the European Council summit on 20 March 2014, the European Commission decided to propose a change in the functioning of the carbon market (CO2 permits). The submitted legislation on the Market Stability Reserve system (MSR) would change the amount of annually auctioned CO2 permits based on the amount of CO2 permits in circulation. On 24 October 2014, at the meeting of the European Council, the Heads of Governments of EU Member States provided legal certainty to the proposed Market Stability Reserve (MSR) by sanctioning the political project in the text of the Council Conclusions. This would address imbalances in supply and demand in the European carbon market by adjusting volumes for auction. The reserve would operate on predefined rules with no discretion for the Commission or Member States.\n\nThe European Parliament and the European council informally agreed on an adapted version of this proposal, which sets the starting date of the MSR to 2019 (so already in Phase III), puts the 900 million backloaded allowances in the reserve and reduces the reaction time of the MSR to one year. This adapted proposal has already passed the European parliament and is to be approved by the Council of ministers in September 2015.\n\nEmissions in the EU have been reduced at costs that are significantly lower than projected, though transaction costs are related to economies of scale and can be significant for smaller installations. Overall, the estimated cost was a fraction of 1% of GDP. It was suggested that if permits were auctioned, and the revenues used effectively, e.g., to reduce distortionary taxes and fund low-carbon technologies, costs could be eliminated, or even create a positive economic impact.\n\nAccording to the European Commission, in 2010 greenhouse gas emissions from big emitters covered by the EU ETS had decreased by an average of more than 17,000 tonnes per installation from 2005, a decrease of more than 8% since 2005.\n\nAccording to UBS Investment Research, the EU ETS cost $287 billion through to 2011 and had an \"almost zero impact\" on the volume of overall emissions in the European Union and the money could have resulted in more than a 40% reduction in emissions if it had been used in a targeted way, e.g., to upgrade power plants.\n\nCurrently, the EU does not allow CO credits under ETS to be obtained from sinks (e.g. reducing CO by planting trees). However, some governments and industry representatives lobby for their inclusion. The inclusion is currently opposed by NGOs as well as the EU commission itself, arguing that sinks are surrounded by too many scientific uncertainties over their permanence and that they have inferior long-term contribution to climate change compared to reducing emissions from industrial sources.\n\nOn 19 January 2011, the EU emissions spot market for pollution permits was closed after computer hackers stole 28 to 30 million euros ($41.12 million) worth of emissions allowances from the national registries of several European countries within a few days time period. The Czech Registry for Emissions Trading was especially hard hit with 7 million euros worth of allowances stolen by hackers from Austria, the Czech Republic, Greece, Estonia, and Poland. A phishing scam is suspected to have enabled hackers to log into unsuspecting companies' carbon credit accounts and transfer the allowances to themselves, allowing them to then be sold.\n\nThe European Commission said it would \"proceed to determine together with national authorities what minimum security measures need to be put in place before the suspension of a registry can be lifted\". Maria Kokkonen, EC spokeswoman for climate issues, said that national registries can be reopened once sufficient security measures have been enacted and member countries submit to the EC a report of their IT security protocol.\n\nThe Czech registry said there are still legal and administrative hurdles to be overcome and Jiri Stastny, chairman of OTE AS, the Czech registry operator, said that until there is recourse for victims of such theft, and a system is in place to return allowances to their rightful owners, the Czech registry will remain closed. Registry officials in Germany and Estonia have confirmed they have located 610,000 allowances stolen from the Czech registry, according to Mr. Stastny. Another 500,000 of the stolen Czech allowances are thought to be in accounts in the UK, according to the OTE.\n\nCyber fraudsters have also attacked the EU ETS with a \"phishing\" scam which cost one company €1.5 million. In response to this, the EU has revised the ETS rules to combat crime.\n\nThe security breaches raised fears among some traders that they might have unknowingly purchased stolen allowances which they might later have to forfeit. The ETS experienced a previous phishing scam in 2010 which caused 13 European markets to shut down, and criminals cleared 5 million euros in another cross-border fraud in 2008 and 2009.\n\nIn 2009 Europol informed that 90% market volume of emissions traded in some countries could be result of tax fraud, more specifically missing trader fraud, costing governments more than 5 billion euros.\n\nGerman prosecutors confirmed in March 2011 that value-added-tax fraud in the trade of carbon-dioxide emissions has deprived the German state of about €850 million ($1.19 billion). In December 2011 a German court sentenced six people to jail terms of between three years and seven years and 10 months in a trial involving evasion of taxes on carbon permits. A French court sentenced five people to one to five years in jail, and to pay massive fines for evading tax through carbon trading. In the UK a first trial over VAT fraud in the carbon market is put on track to start in February 2012.\n\nDifferent people and organizations have responded differently to the EU ETS. Mr Anne Theo Seinen, of the EC's Directorate-General for the Environment, described Phase I as a \"learning phase\", where, for example, the infrastructure and institutions for the ETS were set up (UK Parliament, 2009). In his view, the carbon price in Phase I had resulted in some abatement. Seinen also commented that the EU ETS needed to be supported by other policies for technology and renewable energy. According to CCC (2008, p. 155), technology policy is necessary to overcome market failures associated with delivering low-carbon technologies, e.g., by supporting research and development.\n\nIn 2009 the World Wildlife Fund commented that there was no indication that the EU ETS had influenced longer-term investment decisions. In their view, the Phase III scheme brought about significant improvements, but still suffered from major weaknesses. Jones \"et al\". (2008, p. 24) suggested that the EU ETS needed further reform to achieve its potential.\n\nA 2016 survey of German companies participating in the EUETS found that the majority do not expect the EUETS to be effective in reducing global greenhouse gas emissions, not even in the long-run. Under current trading conditions, the EUETS has generated weak incentives for participating firms to adopt carbon abatement measures.\n\nThe EU ETS has been criticized for several failings, including: over-allocation, windfall profits, price volatility, and in general for failing to meet its goals. Proponents argue, however, that Phase I of the EU ETS (2005–2007) was a \"learning phase\" designed primarily to establish baselines and create the infrastructure for a carbon market, not to achieve significant reductions.\n\nIn addition, the EU ETS has been criticized as having caused a disruptive spike in energy prices. Defenders of the scheme say that this spike did not correlate with the price of permits, and in fact the largest price increase occurred at a time (Mar–Dec 2007) when the cost of permits was negligible.\n\nResearchers Preston Teeter and Jorgen Sandberg have argued that it is largely the uncertainty behind the EU's scheme that has resulted in such a tepid and informal response by regulated organizations. Their research has revealed a similar outcome in Australia, where organizations saw little incentive to innovate and even comply with cap and trade regulations.\n\nThere was an oversupply of emissions allowances for EU ETS Phase I. This drove the carbon price down to zero in 2007 (CCC, 2008, p. 140). This oversupply reflects the difficulty in predicting future emissions which is necessary in setting a cap (Carbon Trust, 2009). Given poor data about emissions baselines, inherent uncertainty of emissions forecasts, and the very modest reduction goals of the Phase I cap (1–2% across the EU), it was entirely expected that the cap might be set too high.\n\nThis problem naturally diminishes as the cap tightens. The EU's Phase II cap is more than 6% below 2005 levels, much stronger than Phase I, and readily distinguishable from business-as-usual emissions levels.\n\nOver-allocation does not imply that no abatement occurred. Even with over-allocation, there was theoretically a price on carbon (except for installations that received hundreds of thousands of free allowances). For some installations, the price had a some effect on emitters' behavior. Verified emissions in 2005 were 3–4% below projected emissions, and analysis suggests that at least part of that reduction was due to the EU ETS.\n\nIn September 2012 Thomson Reuters Point Carbon calculated that the first Kyoto Protocol commitment period had been oversupplied by about 13 billion tonnes (13.1 Gt) of CO2 and that the second commitment period (2013-2020) was likely to start with a surplus of Assigned Amount Units (AAUs).\n\nAccording to Newbery (2009), the price of EUAs was included in the final price of electricity. The free allocation of permits was cashed in at the EUA price by fossil generators, resulting in a \"massive windfall gain\". Newbery (2009) wrote that \"[there] is no case for repeating such a wilful misuse of the value of a common property resource that should be owned by the country\". In the view of 4CMR (2009), all permits in the EU ETS should be auctioned. This would avoid possible windfall profits in all sectors.\n\nThe price of emissions permits tripled in the first six months of Phase I, collapsed by half in a one-week period in 2006, and declined to zero over the next twelve months. Such movements and the implied volatility raise questions about the viability of this trading system to provide stable incentives to emitters.\n\nThis criticism has face validity. In future phases, measures such as banking of allowances and price floors may be used to mitigate volatility. However, it's important to note that considerable volatility is expected of this type of market, and the volatility seen is quite in line with that of energy commodities generally. Nonetheless, producers and consumers in those markets respond rationally and effectively to price signals.\n\nNewbery (2009) commented that the EU ETS was not delivering the stable carbon price necessary for long-term, low-carbon investment decisions. He suggested that efforts should be made to stabilize carbon price, e.g., by having a price ceiling and a price floor.\n\nThe EU ETS is 'linked' to the Joint Implementation and Clean Development Mechanism projects as it allows the limited use of 'offset credits' from them. Participating firms were allowed to use some Certified Emission Reduction units (CERs) from 2005 and Emission Reduction Units (ERUs) from 2008. Each Member State's National Allocation Plan must specify a percentage of the national allocation that will be the cap on the CERs and ERUs that may be used. CERs and ERUs from nuclear facilities and from Land Use, Land-Use Change and Forestry may not be used.\n\nThe main theoretical advantage of allowing free trading of credits is that it allows mitigation to be done at least-cost (CCC, 2008, p. 160). This is because the marginal costs (that is to say, the incremental costs of preventing the emission of one extra ton of COe into the atmosphere) of abatement differs among countries. In terms of the UK's climate change policy, CCC (2008), noted three arguments against too great a reliance on credits:\n\n\nDue to the economic downturn, states have pushed successfully for a more generous approach towards the use of CDM/JI credits post-2012. The 2009 EU ETS Amending Directive states that credits can be used for up to 50% of the EU-wide reductions below the 2005 levels of existing sectors over the period 2008–2020. Moreover, it has been argued that the volume of CDM/JI credits, if carried over from phase II (2008–2012 to phase III 2013–2020) in the EU ETS will undermine its environmental effectiveness, despite the requirement of supplementarity in the Kyoto Protocol.\n\nIn January 2011, the EU Climate Change Committee banned the use of CDM Certified Emission Reduction units from HFC-23 destruction in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme from 1 May 2013. The ban includes nitrous oxide (N2O) from adipic acid production. The reasons given were the perverse incentives, the lack of additionality, the lack of environmental integrity,the under-mining of the Montreal Protocol, costs and ineffectiveness and the distorting effect of a few projects in advanced developing countries getting too many CERs.\n\nAs an alternative to CDM and JI projects, emissions can be offset directly by buying and deleting emissions allowances inside the ETS. This is a way to avoid several problems of CDM and JI such as additionality, measurement, leakage, permanence, and verification. Buying and cancelling allowances allows to include more emissions sources in the ETS (such as traffic). Furthermore, it reduces the available allowances in the cap-and-trade system, which means that it reduces the emissions that can be produced by covered sources.\n\nThe EU is negotiating a link with Switzerland's domestic trading system. Distinct emissions trading systems can be linked through the recognition of emissions allowances for compliance. Linking systems creates a larger carbon market, which can reduce overall compliance costs, increase market liquidity and generate a more stable carbon market. Linking systems can also be politically symbolic as it shows willingness to undertake a common effort to reduce GHG emissions. Some scholars have argued that linking may provide a starting point for developing a new, bottom-up international climate policy architecture whereby multiple unique systems successively link their various systems.\n\n\n\"Official pages\"\n\n\"How ETS works\"\n\n\"Key reports, and assessments\"\n\n\"Case law\"\n"}
{"id": "22257567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22257567", "title": "Fair Share Health Care Act", "text": "Fair Share Health Care Act\n\nMaryland Senate Bill 790, known as the Fair Share Health Care Act, also nicknamed the \"Wal-Mart Bill\", was a legislative act passed in the state of Maryland in 2005. The act would have required for-profit employers with more than 10,000 workers in the state of Maryland to spend at least 8% of their payroll on employee health benefits or make a contribution to the state's insurance program for the poor. Non-profit employers were required to do the same, but with a lower, 6% benchmark.\n\nThe Maryland legislature initially passed the bill on April 5, 2005. Though its supporters contended that it did not single out Wal-Mart, Wal-Mart was the only private, for-profit employer in the state that would have been affected.\n\nThe bill was vetoed by then-Governor Robert L. Ehrlich On January 12, 2006, the Senate decided to override Ehrlich's veto, thereby passing the act into law.\n\nOn July 18, 2006, federal judge J. Frederick Motz struck down the law as preempted by ERISA. On January 17, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit upheld the decision.\n\nWhile the Maryland bill drew the most national media attention, similar measures were considered in other states but also failed.\n\nIn February 2006, a version of the bill that would have required companies with 5,000 or more employees to spend 9% of their payroll on health care benefits was defeated in Washington.\n\nIn June of the same year, a similar bill was vetoed by the governor of Colorado.\n\n"}
{"id": "6152476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6152476", "title": "Government of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia", "text": "Government of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia\n\nThe Government of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia () is an administration recognized by Georgia as the legal and only government of Abkhazia. Abkhazia has been \"de facto\" independent of Georgiathough with very little international recognitionsince the early 1990s. Vakhtang Kolbaia, elected in April 2013, is the current head of the government-in-exile.\n\nAfter the War in Abkhazia (1992–1993) Georgia proposed five-party talks involving the Government of the Autonomous Republic, the government of the \"de facto\" authorities of Abkhazia, and the government of Georgia, along with Russia and the UN as interested parties, in order to settle the final status of Abkhazia within the framework of the Georgian state. The Abkhaz side wanted assurances that Georgia would not try to solve the issue by force of arms before being a party to the talks.\n\nBetween September 2006 and July 2008, the Georgian recognized government was headquartered in Upper Abkhazia. However it was forced out of all of Abkhazia in August 2008 during the Russo-Georgian war by the Abkhazian armed forces. Upper Abkhazia is a territory that has population of c. 2,000 (1-1.5% of Abkhazia's post-war population) and is centered on the upper Kodori Valley (roughly 17% of the territory of the former Abkhaz ASSR). The government-in-exile is partly responsible for the affairs of some 250,000 internally displaced persons who were forced to leave Abkhazia following the War in Abkhazia and the resulting ethnic cleansing of Georgians from the area.\n\nDuring the War in Abkhazia, the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia, then called the \"Council of Ministers of Abkhazia\", left Abkhazia after the Abkhaz separatist forces took control of the region’s capital Sukhumi after heavy fighting on September 27, 1993, leading to the Sukhumi Massacre, in which several members of the Abkhazian government of that time, including its chairman Zhiuli Shartava, were executed by the rebels. The Council of Ministers relocated to Georgia’s capital Tbilisi, where it operated as the Government of Abkhazia in exile for almost 13 years. During this period, the Government of Abkhazia in exile, led by Tamaz Nadareishvili, was known for a hard-line stance towards the Abkhaz problem and frequently voiced their opinion that the solution to the conflict can only be attained through Georgia's military response to secessionism. Later, Nadareishvili's administration was implicated in some internal controversies and had not taken an active part in the politics of Abkhazia until a new chairman, Irakli Alasania, was appointed by President of Georgia, Mikheil Saakashvili, his envoy in the peace talks over Abkhazia.\n\nAmid the 2006 Georgian police operation in Abkhazia's Kodori Gorge, in which a local militia, led by the defiant warlord Emzar Kvitsiani, had been largely disarmed, and the constitutional order restored in the area, President Saakashvili announced, on July 27, 2006, that the authorities had decided to establish the Tbilisi-based Abkhazian government-in-exile in the Kodori Gorge (Upper Abkhazia):\n\nDuring the 2008 Russo-Georgian War, the Republic of Abkhazia joined forces with the Ossetians and opened a second front against Georgia. During the Battle of the Kodori Valley Abkhazian forces loyal to the Government of the Republic of Abkhazia pushed the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia out of the region of Abkhazia. Sergei Bagapsh, President of the Government of the Republic of Abkhazia said in an address to the Abkhazian people that “the jurisdiction of the Abkhaz state has been restored in the upper Kodori Gorge.”\n\n!align=left|Chairman of Cabinet of Ministers\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1978058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1978058", "title": "Herstigte Nasionale Party", "text": "Herstigte Nasionale Party\n\nThe Herstigte Nasionale Party (Reconstituted National Party) is a South African political party which was formed as a far-right splinter group of the now defunct National Party in 1969. The party name was commonly abbreviated as HNP, although colloquially they were also known as the Herstigtes.\n\nThe HNP was formed in 1969 by Albert Hertzog (son of former Prime Minister General JBM Hertzog) in protest against the decision by Prime Minister B.J. Vorster to authorize the presence of Maori players and spectators during the tour of New Zealand rugby union team in South Africa in 1970. He was also against Vorster's re-establishment of diplomatic relations with Malawi and that country's appointment of a Black ambassador to South Africa. The name was chosen to reflect the initials of the earlier Herenigde Nasionale Party (Reunited National Party), the name used by the National Party in the election of 1948. Seeking a return to Calvinism as the basis of South Africa, the party advocated complete racial segregation and the adoption of Afrikaans as the only official language. The bulk of the membership of the new party was made up of rural and small town working and lower middle class Afrikaners who resented what they saw as the National Party devoting their attentions to the concerns of urban Afrikaner elites.The Afrikaner Broederbond denied membership to any HNP member.\n\nThe party contested the 1970 general election although its campaign was the subject of government crackdowns and attacks. The party's 78 candidates were all defeated, including its four Members of Parliament, all of whom had been National Party members before defecting to the new HNP. The party also contested 50 seats in the 1974 general election but failed to make an impact in an election where reformists advanced. During this election the HNP boycotted the English language press, as the party opposed the use of the language. It also contested three by-elections in 1975 and 1976 and enjoyed some growth, taking second place ahead of the United Party in the two seats that that group contested. The HNP captured 3.3% of the vote in the 1977 general election before increasing to 14.1% in 1981 as right wing disenchantment with the NP grew, but on no occasion did it win any seats and its newly acquired voters soon shifted their support to the Conservative Party.\n\nEugène Terre'Blanche had been a member of the HNP, but broke with the group in 1973, after becoming disillusioned with their adherence to electoral politics. He then established the paramilitary Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging. He also differed from the HNP in his belief in the establishment of a white homeland in South Africa, something the HNP rejected as unnecessary.\n\nUnder the leadership of Jaap Marais, the former deputy leader who replaced the retiring Hertzog in 1977, the party emerged as a force amongst white South Africans. In 1979 the evidence of its potential was demonstrated in a series of by-elections when it seemed to threaten the position of the ruling party. Despite obtaining 14.1% support in the 1981 general election, the HNP never managed to gain seats in the South African parliament in a general election and remained only a voice of external opposition. However in October 1985 the party's general secretary Louis Stofberg won a by-election in Sasolburg on a campaign based on the presence of a mixed couple in the constituency and claims that the white population paid more tax than the other ethnic groups. The victory came despite a breakdown in the electoral alliance between the HNP and the Conservative Party that had been established earlier that year, with Andries Treurnicht claiming it was a first step to merging the HNP into the Conservatives, something that Marais did not want.\n\nThe HNP effectively became the chief voice of the far-right, particularly in 1989 when both the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging and the Boerestaat Party declared their support for Marais. The group's only previous contact with other parties had been in 1985 when it briefly co-operated with the Conservative Party to oppose the repeal of the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act and the Immorality Amendment Act by P.W. Botha.\n\nOn the international stage, the HNP built up a number of contacts with far-right groups in Europe and for a time during the 1980s it was responsible for funding the United Kingdom-based League of Saint George. It was also closely associated with the South African National Front (SANF), an overseas branch of the National Front in the United Kingdom. Between 1980 and 1987 the party bankrolled the English-speaking far-right journal \"South African Patriot\", edited by SANF members John Hiddleston and then Alan Harvey.\n\nThe HNP joined the Afrikaner Volksfront of General Constand Viljoen in 1991, but the front collapsed in 1994 when many of the members refused to participate in South Africa's first multi-racial elections. The HNP drifted away from Viljoen and did not join his Freedom Front party. As a result, it has become something of a marginal force in contemporary South Africa, arguing for the self-determination of white Afrikaners and a return to Verwoerdian apartheid. The party motto is now \"Dié Land is ons Land\" (This land is our land).\n\nIt re-emerged in 2004, when the party lodged an official complaint against SABC 3 when it broadcast a play entitled \"ID\" which satirised the killing of Hendrik Verwoerd. Although the HNP argued that it portrayed Verwoerd and his supporters unfairly, the complaint was rejected by the Broadcasting Complaints Commission of South Africa.\n\nJaap Marais died in 2000, and was replaced as leader by Willie Marais. Willie Marais died in December 2007, and was replaced as by Japie Theart. The present leader is Andries Breytenbach. Two splits have occurred from the party over ideology and tactics: the Afrikaner Nationalist Movement in 2004, and the Afrikaner Volksparty in 2008.\n\nWhen founded, the HNP emphasised above all its Afrikaner identity, attacking immigration, seeking to downgrade the importance of the English language, and endorsing apartheid. The party also launched an attack on the materialism that it felt was taking over South African society and thus sought to present itself as the voice of working class Afrikaners. It frequently attacked the \"liberalism\" of the National Party regime, arguing that it was gradually diluting apartheid and offering too many concessions to non-whites.\n\nThe party reject the concept of a Volkstaat, claiming all of South Africa for the Afrikaner instead. It believes that the interests of the black population will be sufficiently met in the former homelands. The HNP have no clear plan as to how the return to Verwoerdian South Africa could be achieved. The party also emphasises the importance of Calvinism to the South African identity.\n\nThe party does not recognise the new order in South Africa, and as a result, encourages people not to vote as part of its policy of resistance. However, this also makes it impossible to determine the exact support levels the party enjoys.\n\nWhile South Africa administered Namibia until 1988, the party was active in the country in opposition to independence and black rights. It contested the first multi-ethnic election in 1978, capturing 1.8% of the vote, or 10% of the White vote. The election resulted in a landslide win for the Democratic Turnhalle Alliance of Namibia, albeit with the main black opposition parties, the South West Africa People's Organization and the Namibia National Front, excluded from the ballot.\n\n"}
{"id": "24400667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24400667", "title": "Joseon diplomacy", "text": "Joseon diplomacy\n\nJoseon diplomacy was the foreign policy of Joseon Dynasty of Korea from 1392 through 1910; and its theoretical and functional foundations were rooted in Neo-Confucian scholar-bureaucrats, institutions and philosophy.\n\nThis long-term, strategic policy of \"sadae\" diplomacy (serving the great) characterized the Joseon-Chinese relations in this period. This contrasts with Joseon's \"gyorin\" diplomacy (neighborly relations) in its relations with Japan and others. For example, envoys from the Ryūkyū Kingdom were received by Taejo of Joseon in 1392, 1394 and 1397. Siam sent an envoy to Taejo's court in 1393.\n\nTaejo of Joseon established the \"Kingdom of Great Joseon\" in 1392-1393, and he founded the Joseon Dynasty which would retain power on the Korean peninsula for five hundred years. As an initial step, a diplomatic mission was dispatched to China and to Japan in 1402. Subsequent missions developed and nurtured the contacts and exchanges between these neighboring countries.\n\nA diplomatic mission conventionally consisted of three envoys—the main envoy, the vice-envoy, and a document official. Also included were one or more official writers or recorders who created a detailed account of the mission.\n\nIn the 20th century, the Joseon Dynasty's bilateral relations were affected by the increasing numbers of international contacts which required adaptation and a new kind of diplomacy.\n\nAlthough conventionally mislabeled as the \"Hermit kingdom\", Joseon's sophisticated foreign policy initiatives belie the aptness of this term.\n\n\nThe historical significance of some of these scholar-bureaucrats were confirmed when their missions and their names were specifically mentioned in a widely distributed history published by the Oriental Translation Fund in 1834.\n\nIn the West, early published accounts of the Joseon kingdom are not extensive, but they are found in \"Sangoku Tsūran Zusetsu\" (published in Paris in 1832), and in \"Nihon Ōdai Ichiran\" (published in Paris in 1834). Joseon foreign relations and diplomacy are explicitly referenced in the 1834 work; and some of the diplomats names are also identified.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40485519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40485519", "title": "Krantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangathan", "text": "Krantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangathan\n\nKrantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangathan (English: \"Revolutionary Adivasi Women's Organisation\") is a banned women's organisation based in India. The Krantikari Adivasi Mahila Sangathan (KAMS) is a successor of the Adivasi Mahila Sanghathana (AMS). The foundation of the AMS was laid by the Maoists in 1986.\n\nThe count of the KAMS's registered members is about 90,000, which ranks it amongst the top-most women's organisations in India when it comes to numbers of registered members. But, Rahul Pandita, in 2011, claimed that the members of the KAMS are estimated to number around 100,000.\n\nThe KAMS concentrates on addressing various social issues faced by the women. The members of the KAMS crusades against the evil practises against women in the society like abducting the women and forcing them to marry against their will, polygyny, etc. The organisation's members have also campaigned against the \"adivasi\" tradition of forcing women to stay away from the village and take shelter in the forest during her menstruation period. The members also take a stand against the patriarchal mentality within their communities. In Dandakaranya, the \"adivasi\" men did not permit the women to sow seeds in the fields, but when the members of the KAMS approached the Communist Party of India (Maoist), the party held meetings (with the adivasis) to address the issue. While during the meets, the \"adivasi\" men have accepted their mistake and decided to refrain for such activities, they are yet to bring their resolution to practise. However, the CPI (Maoist) have ensured that the women are allowed to sow seed, raise vegetables, and construct check dams \"on common lands, which belongs to the \"Jantana Sarkar\"\" (people's government).\n\nIn Bastar, the KAMS members have rallied with hundreds in numbers to highlight the atrocities by the police, and a few times the attendance figure have been in thousands to \"physically confront\" the police.\n\nArundhati Roy wrtites,\nThe organisation's members also addresses problems like forced migration and other political issues as well. Roy says that the KAMS has also been opposing mining in the Dandakaranya region.\n\nA senior worker from the KAMS told Arundhati Roy that after facing \"bestial sexual mutilation\" and getting raped by the Salwa Judum members, several of the organisation's members have left the KAMS and joined the CPI (Maoist). A number of girls, who were not the members of the KAMS but witnessed the atrocities upon the KAMS members by the Salwa Judum members, have also joined the Maoists.\n\nThe KAMS was reported to be a frontal organisation of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) People's War, and was thus banned. Arundhati Roy says that the Government of India can \"wipe out\" all the 90,000 members of the organisation, any time. She writes,\n"}
{"id": "1371224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371224", "title": "Labeling theory", "text": "Labeling theory\n\nLabeling theory is the theory of how the self-identity and behavior of individuals may be determined or influenced by the terms used to describe or classify them. It is associated with the concepts of self-fulfilling prophecy and stereotyping. Labeling theory holds that deviance is not inherent to an act, but instead focuses on the tendency of majorities to negatively label minorities or those seen as deviant from standard cultural norms. The theory was prominent during the 1960s and 1970s, and some modified versions of the theory have developed and are still currently popular. A stigma is defined as a powerfully negative label that changes a person's self-concept and social identity.\n\nLabeling theory is closely related to social-construction and symbolic-interaction analysis. Labeling theory was developed by sociologists during the 1960s. Howard Saul Becker's book \"Outsiders\" was extremely influential in the development of this theory and its rise to popularity.\n\nLabeling theory had its origins in \"Suicide\", a book by French sociologist Émile Durkheim. He found that crime is not so much a violation of a penal code as it is an act that outrages society. He was the first to suggest that deviant labeling satisfies that function and satisfies society's need to control the behavior.\n\nAs a contributor to American Pragmatism and later a member of the Chicago School, George Herbert Mead posited that the self is socially constructed and reconstructed through the interactions which each person has with the community. The labeling theory suggests that people obtain labels from how others view their tendencies or behaviors. Each individual is aware of how they are judged by others because he or she has attempted many different roles and functions in social interactions and has been able to gauge the reactions of those present.\n\nThis theoretically builds a subjective conception of the self, but as others intrude into the reality of that individual's life, this represents objective data which may require a re-evaluation of that conception depending on the authoritativeness of the others' judgment. Family and friends may judge differently from random strangers. More socially representative individuals such as police officers or judges may be able to make more globally respected judgments. If deviance is a failure to conform to the rules observed by most of the group, the reaction of the group is to label the person as having offended against their social or moral norms of behavior. This is the power of the group: to designate breaches of their rules as deviant and to treat the person differently depending on the seriousness of the breach. The more differential the treatment, the more the individual's self-image is affected.\n\nLabeling theory concerns itself mostly not with the normal roles that define our lives, but with those very special roles that society provides for deviant behavior, called deviant roles, stigmatic roles, or social stigma. A social role is a set of expectations we have about a behavior. Social roles are necessary for the organization and functioning of any society or group. We expect the postman, for example, to adhere to certain fixed rules about how he does his job. \"Deviance\" for a sociologist does not mean morally wrong, but rather behavior that is condemned by society. Deviant behavior can include both criminal and non-criminal activities.\n\nInvestigators found that deviant roles powerfully affect how we perceive those who are assigned those roles. They also affect how the deviant actor perceives himself and his relationship to society. The deviant roles and the labels attached to them function as a form of social stigma. Always inherent in the deviant role is the attribution of some form of \"pollution\" or difference that marks the labeled person as different from others. Society uses these stigmatic roles to them to control and limit deviant behavior: \"If you proceed in this behavior, you will become a member of that group of people.\"\n\nWhether a breach of a given rule will be stigmatized will depend on the significance of the moral or other tenet it represents. For example, adultery may be considered a breach of an informal rule or it may be criminalized depending on the status of marriage, morality, and religion within the community. In most Western countries, adultery is not a crime. Attaching the label \"adulterer\" may have some unfortunate consequences but they are not generally severe. But in some Islamic countries, zina is a crime and proof of extramarital activity may lead to severe consequences for all concerned.\n\nStigma is usually the result of laws enacted against the behavior. Laws protecting slavery or outlawing homosexuality, for instance, will over time form deviant roles connected with those behaviors. Those who are assigned those roles will be seen as less human and reliable. Deviant roles are the sources of negative stereotypes, which tend to support society's disapproval of the behavior.\n\nOne of the founders of social interactionism, George Herbert Mead focused on the internal processes of how the mind constructs one's self-image. In \"Mind, Self, and Society\" (1934), he showed how infants come to know \"persons\" first and only later come to know \"things\". According to Mead, thought is both a \"social\" and \"pragmatic\" process, based on the model of two persons discussing how to solve a problem. Mead's central concept is the self, the part of an individual's personality composed of self-awareness and self-image. Our self-image is, in fact, constructed of ideas about what we think others are thinking about us. While we make fun of those who visibly talk to themselves, they have only failed to do what the rest of us do in keeping the internal conversation to ourselves. Human behavior, Mead stated, is the result of meanings created by the social interaction of conversation, both real and imaginary.\n\nThomas J. Scheff, Professor, Emeritus, Dept of Sociology, UCSB, published the book Being Mentally III: A Sociological Theory (1966).\nAccording to Scheff society has perceptions about people with mental illness. He stated that everyone in the society learns the stereotyped imagery of mental disorder through ordinary social interaction. From childhood, people learn to use terms like “crazy”, “loony”, “nuts” and associated them with them with disturbed behaviors. The media also contributes to this bias against mentally ill patients by associating them with violent crimes. Scheff believes that mental illness is a label given to a person who has a behavior which is away from the social norms of the society and is treated as a social deviance in the society. Once a person is given a label of “mentally ill person”, s/he receives a set of uniform responses from the society, which are generally negative in nature. These responses from the society compel to the person to take the role of a “mentally ill person” as s/he starts internalizing the same. When the individual takes on the role of being mentally ill as her/his central identity, s/he becomes a stable mental ill person. Chronic mental illness is thus a social role and the societal reaction is the most determinant of one’s entry into this role of chronically ill. \nAccording to Scheff hospitalization of a mentally ill person further reinforces this social role and forces her/him to take this role as her/his self-perception. Once the person is institutionalized for mental disorder, s/he has been publicly labeled as “crazy” and forced to become a member of a deviant social group. It then becomes difficult for a deviant person to return to her/his former level of functioning as the status of ‘patient’ causes unfavorable evaluations by self and by others.\n\nFrank Tannenbaum is considered the grandfather of labeling theory. His \"Crime and Community\" (1938), describing the social interaction involved in crime, is considered a pivotal foundation of modern criminology. While the criminal differs little or not at all from others in the original impulse to first commit a crime, social interaction accounts for continued acts that develop a pattern of interest to sociologists.\n\nTannenbaum first introduced the idea of 'tagging'. While conducting his studies with delinquent youth, he found that a negative tag or label often contributed to further involvement in delinquent activities. This initial tagging may cause the individual to adopt it as part of their identity. The crux of Tannenbaum's argument is that the greater the attention placed on this label, the more likely the person is to identify themselves as the label.\n\nKerry Townsend writes about the revolution in criminology caused by Tannenbaum's work:\n\nIt was sociologist Edwin Lemert (1951) who introduced the concept of \"secondary deviance\". The primary deviance is the experience connected to the overt behavior, say drug addiction and its practical demands and consequences. Secondary deviation is the role created to deal with society's condemnation of the behavior of a person.\n\nWith other sociologists of his time, Lemert saw how all deviant acts are social acts, a result of the cooperation of society. In studying drug addiction, Lemert observed a very powerful and subtle force at work. Besides the physical addiction to the drug and all the economic and social disruptions it caused, there was an intensely intellectual process at work concerning one's own identity and the justification for the behavior: \"I do these things because I am this way.\"\n\nThere might be certain subjective and personal motives that might first lead a person to drink or shoplift. But the activity itself tells us little about the person's self-image or its relationship to the activity. Lemert writes: \"His acts are repeated and organized subjectively and transformed into active roles and become the social criteria for assigning status...When a person begins to employ his deviant behavior or a role based on it as a means of defense, attack, or adjustment to the overt and covert problems created by the consequent societal reaction to him, his deviation is secondary\".\n\nWhile it was Lemert who introduced the key concepts of labeling theory, it was Howard Becker who became their successor. He first began describing the process of how a person adopts a deviant role in a study of dance musicians, with whom he once worked. He later studied the identity formation of marijuana smokers. This study was the basis of his \"Outsiders\" published in 1963. This work became the manifesto of the labeling theory movement among sociologists. In his opening, Becker writes:\n\nWhile society uses the stigmatic label to justify its condemnation, the deviant actor uses it to justify his actions. He wrote: \"To put a complex argument in a few words: instead of the deviant motives leading to the deviant behavior, it is the other way around, the deviant behavior in time produces the deviant motivation.\"\n\nBecker's immensely popular views were also subjected to a barrage of criticism, most of it blaming him for neglecting the influence of other biological, genetic effects and personal responsibility. In a later 1973 edition of his work, he answered his critics. He wrote that sociologists, while dedicated to studying society, are often careful not to look too closely. Instead, he wrote: \"I prefer to think of what we study as \"collective action.\" People act, as Mead and Blumer have made clearest, \"together\". They do what they do with an eye on what others have done, are doing now, and may do in the future. One tries to fit his own line of action into the actions of others, just as each of them likewise adjusts his own developing actions to what he sees and expects others to do.\"\n\nFrancis Cullen reported in 1984 that Becker was probably too generous with his critics. After 20 years, his views, far from being supplanted, have been corrected and absorbed into an expanded \"structuring perspective\".\n\nIn \"The Colonizer and the Colonized\" (1965) Albert Memmi described the deep psychological effects of the social stigma created by the domination of one group by another. He wrote:\n\nIn \"Dominated Man\" (1968), Memmi turned his attention to the motivation of stigmatic labeling: it justifies the exploitation or criminalization of the victim. He wrote:\n\nCentral to stigmatic labeling is the attribution of an inherent fault: It is as if one says, \"There must be something wrong with these people. Otherwise, why would we treat them so badly?\"\n\nPerhaps the most important contributor to labeling theory was Erving Goffman, President of the American Sociological Association, and one of America's most cited sociologists. His most popular books include \"The Presentation of Self in Everyday Life\", \"Interaction Ritual\", and \"Frame Analysis\".\n\nHis most important contribution to labeling theory, however, was \"Stigma: Notes on the Management of Spoiled Identity\" published in 1963. Unlike other authors who examined the process of adopting a deviant identity, Goffman explored the ways people managed that identity and controlled information about it.\n\nAmong Goffman's key insights were the following:\n\nIn \"On Becoming Deviant\" (1969), sociologist David Matza gives the most vivid and graphic account of the process of adopting a deviant role. The acts of authorities in outlawing a proscribed behavior can have two effects, keeping most out of the behavior, but also offering new opportunities for creating deviant identities. He says the concept of \"affinity\" does little to explain the dedication to the behavior. \"Instead, it may be regarded as a natural biographical tendency born of personal and social circumstances that suggests but hardly compels a direction or movement.\" What gives force to that movement is the development of a new identity. He writes:\n\nAs an application of phenomenology, the theory hypothesizes that the labels applied to individuals influence their behavior, particularly the application of negative or stigmatizing labels (such as \"criminal\" or \"felon\") promote deviant behavior, becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy, i.e. an individual who is labeled has little choice but to conform to the essential meaning of that judgment. Consequently, labeling theory postulates that it is possible to prevent social deviance via a limited social shaming reaction in \"labelers\" and replacing moral indignation with tolerance. Emphasis is placed on the rehabilitation of offenders through an alteration of their label(s). Related prevention policies include client empowerment schemes, mediation and conciliation, victim-offender forgiveness ceremonies (restorative justice), restitution, reparation, and alternatives to prison programs involving diversion. Labeling theory has been accused of promoting impractical policy implications, and criticized for failing to explain society's most serious offenses.\n\nSome offenses, including the use of violence, are universally recognized as wrong. Hence, labeling either habitual criminals or those who have caused serious harm as \"criminals\" is not constructive. Society may use more \"specific\" labels such as \"murderer\" or \"rapist\" or \"child abuser\" to demonstrate more clearly after the event the extent of its disapproval, but there is a slightly mechanical determinism in asserting that the application of a label will invariably modify the behavior of the one labeled. Further, if one of the functions of the penal system is to reduce recidivism, applying a long-term label may cause prejudice against the offender, resulting in the inability to maintain employment and social relationships.\n\nThe social construction of deviant behavior plays an important role in the labeling process that occurs in society. This process involves not only the labeling of criminally deviant behavior, which is behavior that does not fit socially constructed norms, but also labeling that which reflects stereotyped or stigmatized behavior of the \"mentally ill\". Labeling theory was first applied to the term \"mentally ill\" in 1966 when Thomas J. Scheff published \"Being Mentally Ill\". Scheff challenged common perceptions of mental illness by claiming that mental illness is manifested solely as a result of societal influence. He argued that society views certain actions as deviant and, in order to come to terms with and understand these actions, often places the label of mental illness on those who exhibit them. Certain expectations are then placed on these individuals and, over time, they unconsciously change their behavior to fulfill them. Criteria for different mental illnesses are not consistently fulfilled by those who are diagnosed with them because all of these people suffer from the same disorder, they are simply fulfilled because the \"mentally ill\" believe they are supposed to act a certain way so, over time, come to do so.\n\nScheff's theory had many critics, most notably Walter Gove. Gove consistently argued an almost opposite theory; he believed that society has no influence at all on \"mental illness\". Instead, any societal perceptions of the \"mentally ill\" come about as a direct result of these people's behaviors. Most sociologists' views of labeling and mental illness have fallen somewhere between the extremes of Gove and Scheff. On the other hand, it is almost impossible to deny, given both common sense and research findings, that society's negative perceptions of \"crazy\" people has had some effect on them. It seems that, realistically, labeling can accentuate and prolong the issues termed \"mental illness\", but it is rarely the full cause.\n\nMany other studies have been conducted in this general vein. To provide a few examples, several studies have indicated that most people associate being labeled mentally ill as being just as, or even more, stigmatizing than being seen as a drug addict, ex-convict, or prostitute (for example: Brand & Claiborn 1976). Additionally, Page's 1977 study found that self declared \"ex-mental patients\" are much less likely to be offered apartment leases or hired for jobs. Clearly, these studies and the dozens of others like them serve to demonstrate that labeling can have a very real and very large effect on the mentally ill. However, labeling has not been proven to be the sole cause of any symptoms of mental illness.\n\nPeggy Thoits discusses the process of labeling someone with a mental illness in her article, \"Sociological Approaches to Mental Illness\". Working off Thomas Scheff's (1966) theory, Thoits claims that people who are labeled as mentally ill are stereotypically portrayed as unpredictable, dangerous, and unable to care for themselves. She also claims that \"people who are labeled as deviant and treated as deviant become deviant\". This statement can be broken down into two processes, one that involves the effects of self-labeling and the other differential treatment from society based on the individual's label. Therefore, if society sees mentally ill individuals as unpredictable, dangerous and reliant on others, then a person who may not actually be mentally ill but has been labeled as such, could become mentally ill.\n\nThe label of \"mentally ill\" may help a person seek help, for example psychotherapy or medication. Labels, while they can be stigmatizing, can also lead those who bear them down the road to proper treatment and (hopefully) recovery. If one believes that \"being mentally ill\" is more than just believing one should fulfill a set of diagnostic criteria (as Scheff – see above – would argue), then one would probably also agree that there are some who are labeled \"mentally ill\" who need help. It has been claimed that this could not happen if \"we\" did not have a way to categorize (and therefore label) them, although there are actually plenty of approaches to these phenomena that don't use categorical classifications and diagnostic terms, for example spectrum or continuum models. Here, people vary along different dimensions, and everyone falls at different points on each dimension.\n\nProponents of \"hard labeling\", as opposed to \"soft labeling\", believe that mental illness does not exist, but is merely deviance from norms of society, causing people to believe in mental illness. They view them as socially constructed illnesses and psychotic disorders.\n\nThe application of labeling theory to homosexuality has been extremely controversial. It was Alfred Kinsey and his colleagues who pointed out the big discrepancy between the behavior and the role attached to it. They had observed the often negative consequences of labeling and repeatedly condemned labeling people as homosexual:\n\nErving Goffman's \"Stigma: Notes on the Management of Spoiled Identity\" distinguished between the behavior and the role assigned to it. He wrote:\n\nLabeling theory was also applied to homosexuality by Evelyn Hooker and by Leznoff and Westley, who published the first sociological study of the gay community. Erving Goffman and Howard Becker used the lives of gay-identified persons in their theories of labeling and interactionism. Simon and Gagnon likewise wrote: \"It is necessary to move away from the obsessive concern with the sexuality of the individual, and attempt to see the homosexual in terms of the broader attachments that he must make to live in the world around him.\"\n\nBritish sociologist Mary McIntosh reflected the enthusiasm of Europeans for labeling theory in her 1968 study, \"The Homosexual Role\".\n\nSara Fein and Elaine M. Nuehring were among the many who supported the application of labeling theory to homosexuality. They saw the gay role functioning as a \"master status\" around which other roles become organized. This brings a whole new set of problems and restrictions:\n\nPerhaps the strongest proponent of labeling theory was Edward Sagarin. In his book, \"Deviants and Deviance\", he wrote, \"There are no homosexuals, transvestites, chemical addicts, suicidogenics, delinquents, criminals, or other such entities, in the sense of people having such identities.\" Sagarin's position was roundly condemned by academics in the gay community. Sagarin had written some gay novels under the pseudonym of Donald Webster Cory. According to reports, he later abandoned his gay identity and began promoting an interactionist view of homosexuality.\n\nA number of authors adopted a modified, non-deviant, labeling theory. They rejected the stigmatic function of the gay role, but found it useful in describing the process of coming out and reconciling one's homosexual experiences with the social role. Their works included:\n\nBarry Adam, in his \"Survival of Domination: Inferiorization of Everyday Life\", took those authors to task for ignoring the force of the oppression in creating identities and their inferiorizing effects. Drawing upon the works of Albert Memmi, Adam showed how gay-identified persons, like Jews and blacks, internalize the hatred to justify their limitations of life choices. He saw the gravitation towards ghettos was evidence of the self-limitations. He wrote:\n\nStrong defense of labeling theory also arose within the gay community. Dan Slater of the Los Angeles Homosexual Information Center said, \"There is no such thing as a homosexual lifestyle. There is no such thing as gay pride or anything like that. Homosexuality is simply based on the sex act. Gay consciousness and all the rest are separatist and defeatist attitudes going back to centuries-old and out-moded conceptions that homosexuals are, indeed, different from other people.\"\n\nIn a later article, Slater stated the gay movement was going in the wrong direction:\n\nWilliam DuBay, in \"Gay Identity: The Self Under Ban\", describes gay identity as one strategy for dealing with society's oppression. It solves some problems but creates many more, replacing a closet of secrecy with one of gay identity. A better strategy, he suggests, is to reject the label and live as if the oppression did not exist. Quoting Goffman, he writes, \"But of course what is a good adjustment for the individual can be an even better one for society.\" \n\nDuBay contends that the attempt to define homosexuality as a class of persons to be protected against discrimination as defined in the statutes has not reduced the oppression. The goal of the movement instead should be to gain acceptance of homosexual relationships as useful and productive for both society and the family. The movement has lost the high moral ground by sponsoring the \"flight from choice\" and not taking up the moral issues. \"Persons whom we confine to back rooms and bars other societies have honored as tenders of children, astrologers, dancers, chanters, minstrels, jesters, artists, shamans, sacred warriors and judges, seers, healers, weavers of tales and magic.\"\n\nDuBay refers to the \"gay trajectory,\" in which a person first wraps himself in the gay role, organizing his personality and his life around sexual behavior. He might flee from his family and home town to a large gay center. There, the bedeviling force of the stigma will introduce him to more excessive modes of deviance such as promiscuity, prostitution, alcoholism, and drugs. Many resist such temptations and try to normalize their life, but the fast lanes of gay society are littered with the casualties of gay identity. Some come to reject the label entirely. \"Accomplishing the forbidden, they are neither gay nor straight. Again learning to choose, they develop the ability to make the ban ambiguous, taking responsibility and refusing explanations of their behaviors.\"\n\nJohn Henry Mackay writes about a gay hustler in Berlin adopting such a solution: \"What was self-evident, natural, and not the least sick did not require an excuse through an explanation... It was love just like any other love. Whoever could not or would not accept it as love was mistaken.\"\n\nBruce Link and colleagues have conducted several studies which point to the influence that labeling can have on mental patients. Through these studies, which took place in 1987, 1989, and 1997, Link advanced a \"modified labeling theory\" indicating that expectations of labeling can have a large negative effect, that these expectations often cause patients to withdraw from society, and that those labeled as having a mental disorder are constantly being rejected from society in seemingly minor ways but that, when taken as a whole, all of these small slights can drastically alter their self concepts. They come to both anticipate and perceive negative societal reactions to them, and this potentially damages their quality of life.\n\nModified labeling theory has been described as a \"sophisticated social-psychological model of 'why labels matter. In 2000, results from a prospective two-year study of patients discharged from a mental hospital (in the context of deinstitutionalization) showed that stigma was a powerful and persistent force in their lives, and that experiences of social rejection were a persistent source of social stress. Efforts to cope with labels, such as not telling anyone, educating people about mental distress/disorder, withdrawing from stigmatizing situations, could result in further social isolation and reinforce negative self-concepts. Sometimes an identity as a low self-esteem minority in society would be accepted. The stigma was associated with diminished motivation and ability to \"make it in mainstream society\" and with \"a state of social and psychological vulnerability to prolonged and recurrent problems\". There was an up and down pattern in self-esteem, however, and it was suggested that, rather than simply gradual erosion of self-worth and increasing self-deprecating tendencies, people were sometimes managing, but struggling, to maintain consistent feelings of self-worth. Ultimately, \"a cadre of patients had developed an entrenched, negative view of themselves, and their experiences of rejection appear to be a key element in the construction of these self-related feelings\" and \"hostile neighbourhoods may not only affect their self-concept but may also ultimately impact the patient's mental health status and how successful they are\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4398297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4398297", "title": "Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978", "text": "Labour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978\n\nLabour Relations (Public Service) Convention, 1978 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1978, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to freedom of association and procedures for determining conditions of employment in the public service...\n\nAs of May 2015, the convention has been ratified by 53 states:\nAlbania, 30 Jun 1999; \nAntigua and Barbuda, 16 Sep 2002; \nArgentina, 21 Jan 1987; \nArmenia, 29 Jul 1994; \nAzerbaijan, 11 Mar 1993; \nBelarus, 08 Sep 1997; \nBelgium, 21 May 1991; \nBelize, 22 Jun 1999;\nBosnia and Herzegovina, 31 Mar 2015 (The Convention will enter into force on 31 Mar 2016);\nBotswana, 22 Dec 1997;\nBrazil, 15 Jun 2010; \nChad, 07 Jan 1998; \nChile, 17 Jul 2000; \nColombia, 08 Dec 2000; \nCuba, 29 Dec 1980; \nCyprus, 06 Jul 1981; \nDenmark, 05 Jun 1981; \nEl Salvador, 06 Sep 2006; \nFinland, 25 Feb 1980; \nGabon, 01 Oct 2009; \nGeorgia, 10 Oct 2003; \nGhana, 27 May 1986; \nGreece, 29 Jul 1996; \nGuinea, 08 Jun 1982; \nGuyana, 10 Jan 1983; \nHungary, 04 Jan 1994; \nItaly, 28 Feb 1985; \nLatvia, 27 Jan 1992; \nLuxembourg, 21 Mar 2001; \nMali, 12 Jun 1995; \nMoldova, 04 Apr 2003; \nMorocco, 04 Jun 2013; \nNetherlands, 29 Nov 1988; \nNorway, 19 Mar 1980; \nPeru, 27 Oct 1980; \nPoland, 26 Jul 1982; \nPortugal, 09 Jan 1981; \nRussian Federation, 19 Sep 2014 (The Convention will enter into force on 19 Sep 2015);\nSan Marino, 19 Apr 1988;\nSão Tomé and Príncipe, 4 May 2005;\nSeychelles, 23 Nov 1999; \nSlovakia, 22 Feb 2010; \nSlovenia, 20 Sep 2010; \nSpain, 18 Sep 1984; \nSuriname, 29 Sep 1981; \nSweden, 11 Jun 1979; \nSwitzerland, 03 Mar 1981; \nThe former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 22 Jul 2013; \nTunisia, 11 Feb 2014; \nTurkey, 12 Jul 1993; \nUnited Kingdom, 19 Mar 1980; \nUruguay, 19 Jun 1989; and \nZambia, 19 Aug 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "48940479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48940479", "title": "Land Tenure Reform Association", "text": "Land Tenure Reform Association\n\nThe Land Tenure Reform Association (LTRA) was a British pressure group for land reform, founded by John Stuart Mill in 1868. The Association opposed primogeniture, and sought legal changes on entails. Its programme fell short of the nationalisation of land demanded by the contemporary Land and Labour League.\n\nThe context of the formation of the Association was the aftermath of the Reform Act 1867. While the franchise had been extended, the Reform League that had pushed for the extension then collapsed as a political force. In parallel, Mill and Edmond Beales set up the Association to promote further reform and change. Besides modifications to land law, they proposed also to encourage co-operative agriculture and smallholders.\n\nFollowing a launch of a programme by Mill in July 1870, and organisational work in which Thomas Hare and Jacob Bright were involved, the Association held its first public meeting in 1871. A key plank of the Association's programme was taxation of the unearned increment. Mill's advocacy of this measure presaged more radical proposals of the 1880s. His views influenced Arthur Arnold, president of the Free Land League in 1885.\n\nIn July 1870 \"The Economist\" argued that the LTRA's emphasis on freeing up trade in land in fact would work against the expansion of peasant proprietors, since the wealthy would pay high prices for land. Agricultural labour's interests were represented at meetings of the LTRA by Joseph Arch.\n\nOn Mill's death on 1873, the Association's effective role came to an end. Mill had handed over to Alfred Russel Wallace. It was in the early 1880s that Wallace's writings led to the formation of the Land Nationalisation Society. The Association itself closed down in 1876. Land reform was a more important issue at the 1885 general election than at any previous time, or subsequently.\n\nBesides Mill, the LTRA had other economists as members: John E. Cairnes, Cliffe Leslie and Thorold Rogers. English Members of Parliament (MPs) joined in numbers, but Irish MPs did not support the LTRA. Maxse described as \"trusted Radicals and working class politicians\" the group of supporters Edmond Beales, Charles Dilke, George Jacob Holyoake, Lloyd Jones, Benjamin Lucraft, Edward Miall, Walter Morrison, George Odger, Peter Alfred Taylor and John Weston.\n\nThe LTRA initially grew out of the Radical Club, and Dilke acted as its secretary in its early life. Henry Fawcett worked with Dilke and others in 1869 to set up an organisation, in response to Mill's call to action. Other members were Frederic Harrison, John Morley and Alfred Russel Wallace.\n\nThere were supporters in common of the First International (IWMA) and the LTRA, such as Joseph Lane the socialist and William Randal Cremer, as well as Lucraft and Odger. Mill's advocacy of taxing the \"unearned increment\" won the support of Robert Applegarth, an IWMA delegate. George Howell of the Trades Union Congress worked for the LTRA as a financial agent.\n"}
{"id": "2093300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093300", "title": "Laser airborne depth sounder", "text": "Laser airborne depth sounder\n\nThe Laser airborne depth sounder (LADS) is an aircraft-based hydrographic surveying system used by the Australian Hydrographic Service (AHS). The system uses the difference between the sea surface and the sea floor as calculated from the aircraft's altitude to generate hydrographic data.\n\nThe lack of progress made in surveying Australia's territorial waters, most of which was unsurveyed or relying on Age of Sail-era charts prompted the Royal Australian Navy to seek a method of effectively surveying large areas from the air in the 1970s. The Defence Science and Technology Organisation developed the LADS system, with feasibility trials beginning 1977.\n\nThe LADS system is built around a , which emits an infra-red beam at 990 hertz. The beam is frequency doubled to produce a green laser. This is split into two beams, one infra-red, one green, by an optical coupler, with the infra-red beam aimed directly below the aircraft, and the green beam directed across the target area with a scanning mirror. The infra-red laser does not penetrate the water's surface, and its reflected pulse indicates the height of the aircraft above the surface. However, the green laser penetrates to the ocean floor, and the return pulse from the green laser indicates the height of the aircraft from the ocean floor; the difference between the two values is used to calculate the water's depth. The data from the lasers is not processed aboard the aircraft, but instead by a ground support team, with aircraft flight data and global positioning system information used to help generate hydrographic readings. The aircraft makes multiple, overlapping passes of the target area to ensure accurate data is collected. The LADS system is capable of taking 990 soundings per second, with data points positioned apart across a swath up to wide. The system is capable of working with waters up to deep, and can be modified to perform land surveys of areas with an altitude variance less than \n\nLADS entered service with the AHS in 1993. The equipment was initially fitted to a Fokker F27 Friendship aircraft. In 2010, the system was installed in a de Havilland Canada Dash 8 aircraft. This is operated by the Laser Airborne Depth Sounder Flight of the Royal Australian Navy.\n"}
{"id": "18486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18486", "title": "Law enforcement", "text": "Law enforcement\n\nLaw enforcement is any system by which some members of society act in an organized manner to enforce the law by discovering, deterring, rehabilitating, or punishing people who violate the rules and norms governing that society. Although the term may encompass entities such as courts and prisons, it is most frequently applied to those who directly engage in patrols or surveillance to dissuade and discover criminal activity, and those who investigate crimes and apprehend offenders, a task typically carried out by the police or another law enforcement agency. Furthermore, although law enforcement may be most concerned with the prevention and punishment of crimes, organizations exist to discourage a wide variety of non-criminal violations of rules and norms, effected through the imposition of less severe consequences.\n\nMost law enforcement is conducted by some type of law enforcement agency, with the most typical agency fulfilling this role being the police. Societal investment in enforcement through such organizations can be massive, both in terms of the resources invested in the activity, and in the number of people professionally engaged to perform those functions.\n\nLaw enforcement agencies tend to be limited to operating within a specified jurisdiction. In some cases, jurisdiction may overlap inbetween organizations; for example, in the United States, each state has its own statewide law enforcement arms, but the Federal Bureau of Investigation is able to act against certain types of crimes occurring in any state. Various specialized segments of society may have their own internal law enforcement arrangements. For example, military organizations may have military police.\n\n"}
{"id": "5990058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5990058", "title": "Liberal Women Organisation (Romania)", "text": "Liberal Women Organisation (Romania)\n\nOrganizaţia Naţională a Femeilor Liberale (National Organisation of Liberal Women in Romanian) is the women's wing of the National Liberal Party of Romania (PNL). It represents the women of the PNL local, county and national organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1863036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863036", "title": "Linkage (policy)", "text": "Linkage (policy)\n\nLinkage was a foreign policy that was pursued by the United States and championed by Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger in the 1970s détente, during the Cold War. The policy aimed to persuade the Soviet Union and Communist China to co-operate in restraining revolutions in the Third World in return for concessions in nuclear and economic fields. However, despite the lack of Soviet intervention, a large number of revolutions still occurred in Third World countries, thereby undermining the policy.\nThe premise behind linkage, as a policy, was to connect political and military issues, thereby establishing a relationship making progress in area \"A\" dependent on progress in area \"B.\"\n\nAn important aspect of the policy was that deviations from respecting the rights and interests would go punished. The intent of the action was to bring home to the offending state the limitations of acceptable international behavior and demonstrate that attempts at expansion (and upsetting international stability) would go punished. Thus, conflict itself would contribute to stabilizing the international order.\n\nThe Nixon-Kissinger approach did not link foreign and domestic areas.\n\nSelective relaxation of tensions is an opposing policy to linkage. In that case, an issue of arms control could be addressed and tension diminished, with the status quo being maintained in other strategic areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "14923539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14923539", "title": "List of human rights organisations", "text": "List of human rights organisations\n\nThe following is a list of articles on the human rights organisations of the world. It does not include political parties, or academic institutions. The list includes both secular and religious organizations.\n\n\n\nFor governmental national human rights organisations see national human rights institution.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56229175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56229175", "title": "Ministry for Naval Affairs (Greece)", "text": "Ministry for Naval Affairs (Greece)\n\nThe Ministry for Naval Affairs () was a government department of Greece responsible for matters pertaining to the Greek Navy as well as the Greek Merchant Marine Ministry.\n\nThe ministry was established in 1822, when the Provisional Administration of Greece was formed following the start of the Greek War of Independence, with the name Ministry for Naval Affairs (Μινιστέριον των Ναυτικών). After the reorganization of the government under Ioannis Kapodistrias, and in the early years of King Otto's rule, it was known as the Secretariat of State for Naval Affairs (Γραμματεία τῆς Ἐπικρατείας ἐπὶ τῶν Ναυτικῶν), but after 1843 it was renamed to its eventual name (Ὑπουργείον ἐπὶ τῶν Ναυτικῶν, later simplified Ὑπουργείον τῶν Ναυτικῶν).\n\nIn 1936, the merchant marine section was split off to form an independent Merchant Marine Ministry, and the Ministry for Naval Affairs retained only its military responsibilities. In 1950, the Nikolaos Plastiras government established the Ministry of National Defence, to which the Ministry for Naval Affairs was subordinated as a Sub-Ministry (Ὑφυπουργείον τῶν Ναυτικῶν) until 1953, when the Alexandros Papagos government abolished the position.\n"}
{"id": "31664388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31664388", "title": "Ministry of Culture (Thailand)", "text": "Ministry of Culture (Thailand)\n\nThe Ministry of Culture (; ) (MOC), is a Thai government body responsible for the oversight of culture, religion, and art in Thailand. Its FY2019 budget is 8,209.4 million baht.\n\nThe Division of Culture was established in 1938 under the Department of Fine Arts. In 1952 it became the Ministry of Culture with the Department of Fine Arts as a subordinate agency. In 1958 it was renamed the Division of Culture and placed under the aegis of the Ministry of Education (MOE). In 2002, it was re-established as the Ministry of Culture.\n\n\n\nThailand's military junta was criticized for a history textbook it ordered written by the Fine Arts Department of the ministry. The book, \"History of the Thai Nation\", claims that the military has established \"true democracy\" in Thailand and has eliminated corruption.\nIn 2015 the ministry's Fine Arts Department published \"History of the Thai Nation\" (; ) at the order of the National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO). The NCPO wanted a new history book covering the past 400 years to foster \"national reconciliation\". The book was written in two months. On page 195, the text reads, \"Gen Prayut Chan-o-cha as Prime Minister has carried out a policy of reforming the country, reforming politics to be truly a democracy, eliminating corruption and using moral principles to lead the country to be truly a democracy.\" On page 197 it goes on to say, \"After the coup d'etat, Gen Prayut became prime minister. He has tried to develop the country and reform Thai politics into a real democracy. Gen Prayut has used moral principles and stamped out corruption to return democracy to the country.\" The book maintains that the NCPO was forced to stage the 2014 coup to end the political chaos caused by the civilian government of the time. Ten thousand copies of the book were published at a cost of one million baht. Twenty copies autographed by Prayut were sold at the launch. In November 2017, the prime minister ordered the Fine Arts Department to send 100 copies of the book to each of Thailand's provinces. A leading critic of the junta charged that, \"The content of the book is misleading and it will lead to the distortion of the country's history [if not corrected].\" The culture ministry plans to translate the book to English for distribution to Thai embassies worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1634321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1634321", "title": "Myron Ebell", "text": "Myron Ebell\n\nMyron Ebell is the Director of Global Warming and International Environmental Policy at the Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI), a libertarian advocacy group based in Washington, D.C. He is also the chairman of the Cooler Heads Coalition, a loose coalition formed in 1997 which presents itself as \"focused on dispelling the myths of global warming by exposing flawed economic, scientific, and risk analysis\". \n\nIn these organizations, Ebell has been central in promoting climate change denial, distributing his views to the media and politicians. Ebell, who is not a scientist, has been described as a climate change skeptic, a climate contrarian and a climate change denier. Ebell claims that he advocates \"for sensible energy policies that benefit everyone. Instead of policies that simply reacts [sic] to alarmism.\"\n\nIn September 2016, Ebell was appointed by then Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump to lead his transition team for the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).\n\nEbell grew up on a cattle ranch at Baker City, Oregon, which was first homesteaded by the Ebells in the 1860s, and is still held by his relatives. In 1971 he went to Colorado College, where he majored in philosophy and then obtained a master's degree in political theory from the London School of Economics. Ebell undertook further postgraduate research at the University of California at San Diego and at Cambridge University before returning to the United States where he worked in a succession of public-policy jobs in Washington.\n\nAround 1988 he bought a house in Prince George's County, Maryland. He worked as assistant to the chairman of the National Taxpayers Union, and by 1990 he was a lobbyist representing the National Inholders Association, campaigning against federal policies which restricted property owners in U.S. national parks and national forests. He worked for this organisation, which was renamed the American Land Rights Association (ALRA), on such policy topics as tobacco regulation and endangered species. In 1995 he sent a nine-page memo to staff at the United States House Committee on Natural Resources opposing Newt Gingrich's proposals to reform the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Ebell wrote that Gingrich's \"soft feelings for cuddly little critters is still going to be a big problem\", and \"We are going to need to get some of the freshmen and women to work on him.\" Ebell became a senior legislative assistant to Republican Representative John Shadegg and advocated the elimination of federal conservation regulations, leaving protection of the environment in the hands of state and local officials.\n\nIn December 1995, he was hired as policy director of Senator Malcolm Wallop's recently founded Frontiers of Freedom Institute. Wallop described Ebell as having \"a broad background in public policy with a concentration on land use, environmental and tax policy. He is widely considered the key staff member responsible for and author of the \"Shandegg\" bill reform of the ESA.\" Frontiers of Freedom promoted property rights and criticized environmental regulations such as the Endangered Species Act.\n\nIn the 1990s, while serving as Policy Director at the Frontiers of Freedom Institute, Ebell worked as part of a team to make regulating the tobacco industry \"politically unpalatable\".\nIn 2011, as part of its \"Control Abuse of Power\" (CAP) project, the CEI launched lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of the 1998 tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (MSA).\n\nAt a meeting on April 3, 1998, Ebell was one of 12 public relations experts and think-tank representatives who produced what they called their \"Global Climate Science Communications\" plan, with the aim of persuading \"a majority of the American public\" that \"significant uncertainties exist in climate science\", intending to convince the public and policymakers that the science was faulty and could be ignored. ExxonMobil, the coal utility Southern Company and the American Petroleum Institute were represented at the meeting, and there were proposals for industry funding. Ebell has been referred to as a \"public-policy wonk—not, he hastens to clarify, a lobbyist for the energy industry, as many of his fellow skeptics are, or a scientist whose research is underwritten by the energy industry, or a politician who takes contributions from the energy industry.\"\n\nAfter this meeting, ExxonMobil, even though aware as early as 1981 that fossil fuels affected climate change, began funding Frontiers of Freedom, where Ebell was a staff member. In 1999 Ebell transferred to the Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI), and from 1998 to 2005 ExxonMobil provided CEI with over $2 million of funding. On October 27, 2006, Democratic senator Jay Rockefeller and Republican senator Olympia Snowe sent a joint bipartisan letter to Rex Tillerson, the new CEO of ExxonMobil, about its funding of various groups, stating \"We fervently hope that reports that ExxonMobil intends to end its funding of the climate change denial campaign of the Competitive Enterprise Institute are true.\" In 2007, Ebell said funding had no relevance as \"We're not beholden to our donors, because we don't say, 'If you give us this money, we'll do this project',\" and said \"I can't even quite tell you who supports us on global warming\". At that time, CEI had funding from the American Petroleum Institute, the Dow Chemical Company, Eli Lilly and Company, and William A. Dunn of Dunn Capital Management. During an August 2015 discussion on C-SPAN, Ebell did not dispute the statement by Jeremy Symons of the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) that CEI received funds from the Murray Energy Corporation coal mining group. Ebell responded that his group's total budget of about $6 million was far smaller than that of EDF.\n\nEbell has falsely claimed that \"the rate of warming according to the data is much slower than the models used by the IPCC.\" Climate scientists note that past climate models have accurately predicted subsequent rates of global warming.\n\nEbell has opposed the Clean Power Plan developed by the Environmental Protection Agency. The plan entailed far-reaching regulations that seek to reduce carbon emissions from electricity generation especially by coal-burning power plants. The plan has been tied up in legal proceedings since it was finalized in 2015; Ebell argues that the plan is harmful to the economy and illegal.\n\nIn September 2016, the \"Washington Times\" quoted Ebell as saying \"Congress should prohibit any funding for the Paris Climate Agreement, the Green Climate Fund, and the underlying UN Framework Convention on Climate Change.\"\n\nThe first National Climate Assessment was prepared over several years. ExxonMobil did not participate in public consultations, but on August 10, 2000, ran an advertisement in the \"Washington Post\" raising various objections to a draft. The report was delivered to Congress in November 2000. The incoming George W. Bush administration appointed moderate Republican Christine Todd Whitman as chair of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and American Petroleum Institute lobbyist Philip Cooney as chief of staff of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ). During the campaign, Bush had promised to cap carbon dioxide emissions. Shortly after the inauguration Ebell heard a rumor that Bush was going to repeat the pledge in a speech. Ebell contacted Robert Novak who was due to interview Whitman, and Novak questioned her on CNN's \"Crossfire\". It became a hot topic, and CEI circulated it to anyone with influence. Bush dropped the pledge, and in March withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol.\n\nIn line with the \"Global Climate Science Communications\" plan to manufacture uncertainty, Cooney edited the EPA's 2002 US Climate Action Report before sending it to the UN in May, but on June 3, 2002, the \"New York Times\" headlined its story \"U.S. Sees Problems In Climate Change\", saying in a \"stark shift\" the administration \"for the first time mostly blames human actions for recent global warming\". That same day, Cooney contacted Ebell, who emailed back \"I know you're in crisis mode\", and advised \"what we can do is limited until there is an official statement from the administration repudiating the report\". On June 4 Bush dismissed the report as something \"put out by the bureaucracy\", and said policy was unchanged. Ebell had said in his email that \"the folks at EPA are the obvious fall guys\", to be tackled \"high up as possible\". He had already given several interviews \"blaming EPA for freelancing\", and \"Perhaps tomorrow we will call for Whitman to be fired.\" She eventually resigned the EPA chair in May 2003.\n\nThe recently introduced Data Quality Act had already been used by industry to suppress scientific information, and on August 6, 2003, the CEI sued the Bush administration's Office of Science and Technology Policy under the Act, demanding that it should invalidate the National Assessment as allegedly inaccurate, biased and not based on \"sound science\", and should also invalidate the Climate Action Report which was based on the Assessment. The attorneys general of Maine and Connecticut obtained documents including Ebell's June 2002 email through a Freedom of Information Act request. On August 11, they asked the U.S. Justice Department under John Ashcroft to investigate – Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said the email \"indicates a secret initiative by the administration to invite and orchestrate a lawsuit against itself to discredit an official United States government report on global warming dangers\", which could be improper and possibly illegal; G. Steven Rowe as attorney general of Maine said \"The idea that the Bush administration may have invited a lawsuit from a special interest group in order to undermine the federal government's own work under an international treaty is very troubling.\" On 24 August, Senator Joe Lieberman wrote to the White House expressing hope that the lawsuit was \"not the result of a collusive plan conceived by the CEI in concert with the Administration, itself. It would be wrong in any circumstances to reject the well founded findings of the [Climate Action Report], but for the Administration to use an outside group to pursue such an ill-conceived goal would be doubly wrong, and could also be abuse of the courts at the expense of the taxpayers.\" Ashcroft turned down the request for an investigation. On November 4, 2003, the CEI's lawsuit was dismissed by the court, with prejudice so that it could not be re-filed.\n\nEbell has been given extensive media coverage, frequently cited or interviewed by journalists in a way that presents a false balance by giving Ebell's lay views equal weight with those of expert climatologists, and thus misrepresents the consensus of scientific opinion on climate change. A study of false equivalence in the media used as an example the Scripps Howard media company \"incredibly\" giving equal space to Ebell's comments that reports of recent warming from the World Meteorological Organisation and the National Climatic Data Center were unsurprising because of the Little Ice Age, so \"it isn’t much to worry about\", and of a \"Science\" paper by Thomas R. Karl and Kevin Trenberth that \"the Karl-Trenberth analysis is nothing new — it's just kind of a summary of what the establishment thinks is true\".\n\nIn an interview on BBC Radio 4 in 2005, Ebell said that the UK's Chief Scientist David King was \"an alarmist with ridiculous views who knows nothing about climate change\". An early day motion deploring \"in the strongest possible terms\" Ebell's \"unfounded and insulting criticism\" was raised in the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, and was signed by 66 Members of Parliament.\n\nIn 2006, CEI arranged a public-service television commercial about carbon dioxide with the slogan \"They call it pollution; we call it life.\" Also in 2006, Ebell wrote an article in \"Forbes\" titled \"Love Global Warming\". In the article, Ebell wrote, \"More people die from blizzards and cold spells than from heat waves. Increased death rates usually persist for weeks after the unusually cold temperatures have passed, which suggests that the cold is killing people who would otherwise live into another season at least. Mortality rates during heat waves are just the reverse. The increase ends and often the rate drops below normal as soon as temperatures cool, which suggests that the higher temperatures are killing people who are likely to die soon anyway.\"\n\nIn a 2007 discussion with Michael Shnayerson, Ebell criticized James Hansen's writings on climatic effects on animals by saying \"James Hansen was not trained as a climate scientist\", instead \"He was trained as an astronomer. He's a physicist\" and \"you know from him talking about species' going north, he knows nothing about biology.\" Ebell similarly argued that Robert Corell \"is not a climate scientist\" and \"not an Arctic expert\"; Corell told Shnayerson that his Arctic research visits began in 1968. Ebell has no scientific training, and told Shnayerson that, when asked about scientific topics in interviews, he would say \"I'm not a climate scientist. I'm just giving you the informed layman's perspective\". His view is that \"If science is going to be discussed in the public arena, then shouldn't people other than scientists be allowed to participate? Isn't that what a representative democracy is?\"\n\nThrough CEI, Ebell has stated his belief that global warming is a hoax, that most of the data predicting climate change is false, and that the scientific consensus was \"phony\".\n\nIn 2009 a Climatic Research Unit computer server at the University of East Anglia was hacked and thousands of emails and computer files were uploaded to a Russian server. Ebell said the hacked emails \"make it clear that the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is an organized conspiracy dedicated to tricking the world into believing that global warming is a crisis that requires a drastic response.\"\n\nEbell has stated that environmentalists believe \"humans are evil, the use of human power is always bad; everything we do to nature is bad.\" Ebell views forced energy conservation as an infringement on American rights; he has stated: \"Energy is fundamental to mobility, to comfort. When you start limiting people's access to energy, you limit their ability to live the way they want, to make choices.\"\n\nEbell compared his efforts and those of his colleagues to a \"David versus Goliath struggle\" against \"corrupt environmentalism and big government\", and has said that the \"environmental movement is not an objective, well-intentioned movement that cares about saving the planet\", but one which emerged from the New Left, and which always proposes the same solutions regardless of the issue: lower material standards of living, more government control, and more power for the technocratic elite.\n\nEbell claims that environmental groups started out as \"well intentioned groups\" but now the groups have turned into a \"huge, power-hungry industry\" that \"made a tremendous mistake when they stopped being concerned about the environment and got onto the global warming bandwagon.\"\n\nIn opposing a 2005 update, Ebell said that the Endangered Species Act unfairly infringes on land owners' property rights, as well as undermining the protection of rare species by encouraging land owners to make their property inhospitable to such species in order to escape regulation. Ebell stated in an interview that the CEI is \"adamantly opposed\" to the Endangered Species Act, and that they are working on it in a limited way now because they could not attract funding.\n\nIn September 2016, Ebell was appointed by then Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump to lead his transition team for the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). As of January 27, 2017, he was described as the former head of the transition team.\n\nEbell resides in a suburb of Washington, D.C. with his wife and four children.\n\n"}
{"id": "11883730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11883730", "title": "National Liberation Movement (Guatemala)", "text": "National Liberation Movement (Guatemala)\n\nThe National Liberation Movement (, MLN) was a Guatemalan political party formed in 1954 by Carlos Castillo Armas. The party served as political platform for the military junta.\n\nThe MLN was founded as National Democratic Movement (, MDN) in 1954 by President Carlos Castillo Armas. It was the ruling party from 1954 until 1958. The party supported the government of President Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes (1958-1963).\n\nThe 1963 coup that saw the government of Ydígoras Fuentes overthrown led to the MLN becoming the main party of the military. Although they were not successful in the presidential election of 1964 their candidate in 1970, Carlos Manuel Arana Osorio, was elected President, in coalition with the Institutional Democratic Party. Victory was also secured in the 1974 election when Kjell Eugenio Laugerud García's candidacy was also endorsed by the PID. However they later broke their alliance with the PID for the 1978 elections. Its candidate, former President Enrique Peralta Azurdia, placed second in the election. The party was close to the MANO death squad. Another faction of the party, the National Reformist Movement, split away after the coup although it never became a major factor in electoral politics.\n\nIn the 1982 election, the MLN's candidate was former vice-president Mario Sandoval Alarcón, who placed second in what was considered a fraudulent election, followed by a coup d'état in 1982. For the 1984 elections to the Constitutional Assembly, the party allied with National Authentic Central, another right-wing party, and the 23 seats they won constituted the largest bloc in the assembly, albeit outnumbered by reformist parties. They renewed their alliance with the Institutional Democratic Party for the 1985 election. Once more, Mario Sandoval Alarcón was its presidential candidate, and placed fourth in the race while the alliance won 12 seats in Congress. The party faded thereafter: it ran alongside the National Advancement Front in 1990 without much success, winning just 4 seats in Congress. Left to continue alone, it secured less than 1% in 1995 (winning a single seat) and again in 1999 (when it lost representation).\n\n"}
{"id": "20856978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20856978", "title": "On the Poverty of Student Life", "text": "On the Poverty of Student Life\n\nOn the Poverty of Student Life: A Consideration of Its Economic, Political, Sexual, Psychological and Notably Intellectual Aspects and of a Few Ways to Cure it () is a pamphlet first published by students of the University of Strasbourg and the Situationist International (SI) in 1966. Attacking the subservience of university students and the strategies of student radicals, it caused significant uproar, led to the dissemination of Situationist ideas, and precipitated the events of May 1968 in France.\n\nTaking advantage of the apathy of their colleagues, five \"Pro-situs\", Situationist-influenced students had been elected to the University of Strasbourg's students' union in November 1966 and began scandalising the authorities. Their first action was to form an \"anarchist appreciation society\" called The Society for the Rehabilitation for Karl Marx and Ravachol; next they appropriated union funds to flypost \"Return of the Durruti Column\", André Bertrand's \"détourned\" comic strip. They then invited the Situationists to contribute a critique of the University of Strasbourg, and \"On the Poverty of Student Life\", written by Tunisian Situationist Mustapha/Omar Khayati was the result.\n\nThe students promptly proceeded to print 10,000 copies of the pamphlet using university funds and distributed them during a ceremony marking the beginning of the academic year. This provoked an immediate outcry in the local, national and international media. The students responsible were expelled and the student union closed under court order. The scandal significantly raised the profile of the SI and led them to reappraise the revolutionary potential of academia, reversing their previous disillusionment to take seats on the Occupation Committee of the Sorbonne during May 1968. \"On the Poverty of Student Life\" was a key text for the French and German students who rebelled in 1968.\n\nThe text displayed an advanced understanding of Situationist concepts and tactics. It provoked the students of the university by confronting them with their subservience to the ideological conditions imposed upon them by the state, family and the university system. The pamphlet alleged that the students fled from this reality to take refuge in miserabilism and bohemianism. It also criticised radical student collectives including the Provos (Netherlands), Committee of One Hundred (United Kingdom) and those of Berkeley, California (United States) for fighting specific issues such as nuclear arms, racism and censorship rather than the system at large, praising only Spies for Peace.\n\nThe title of the pamphlet induced fury in the Parisian cafés in the Spring of 1967. The pamphlet was described by a local newspaper shortly after its release as \"the first concrete manifestation of a revolt aiming quite openly at the destruction of society\". Critic Greil Marcus characterised the pamphlet as a polemic in his history of 20th century avant-garde art movements \"\" (1990).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6451494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6451494", "title": "Permanent representative", "text": "Permanent representative\n\nA permanent representative is a diplomat who is the head of a country’s diplomatic mission to an international organisation. \n\nOrganizations that receive permanent representatives from their member states include the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, NATO, the European Union, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, and the Organization of American States. Permanent representatives can be sent to subunits or field offices of an organization. For example, in addition to the permanent representatives sent to the United Nations headquarters in New York City, UN member states also appoint permanent representatives to other UN offices, such as those in Geneva, Nairobi, and Vienna.\n\nPermanent representatives are often informally described as \"ambassadors\". However, although a permanent representative typically holds the diplomatic rank of an ambassador, because he or she is accredited to an international organisation the official title is permanent representative. For example, the United States Ambassador to the United Nations is technically called the Permanent Representative to the UN, even though he or she is widely referred to as an ambassador. \n\nDiplomatic representatives of the Pope are titled apostolic nuncio or papal nuncio, which is equivalent to permanent representative.\n\nSome international organizations, such as UNESCO, use the title permanent delegate to refer to the head of a diplomatic mission accredited to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "7684465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7684465", "title": "Power Down: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World", "text": "Power Down: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World\n\nPower Down: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World () is a 2004 book by Richard Heinberg in which Heinberg discusses peak oil and its attendant implications for the global economy. Due to the dependence of industrialized society on cheap and readily available petroleum (fossil fuel oil), Heinberg argues that the post-peak period of global history is likely to be characterized by social and economic turmoil, disruption of trade, declining standard of living, and warfare.\n\nHeinberg outlines four possible strategies nations could employ to respond to the economic challenges associated with declining oil production:\n\n\nHeinberg fleshes out each of these strategies in detail and describes the current political and economic environment in terms of these elements.\n\n\n\nReferences to \"Power Down: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World\":\n"}
{"id": "52371359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52371359", "title": "Realists (political party)", "text": "Realists (political party)\n\nRealists () is a conservative party based in the Czech Republic. It was founded by Petr Robejšek in November 2016. Other members include Pavel Kohout, Antonín Fryč and Jiří Horecký. Robejšek stated that the party aims to succeed in the 2017 legislative election. The party said that it will defend Czech national interests and govern according to the Pareto principle.\n\nThe party was established on 24 November 2016. Petr Robejšek took the title of \"mentor\", because the new leader was to be elected in 2016. The Realists criticised ANO 2011, which they called a \"left leaning\" party. The Realists were founded in response to Brexit and the victory of Donald Trump in the 2016 Presidential election in the United States. The party is ideologically close to the Civic Democratic Party and Dawn - National Coalition. The Realists registered as an official party in December 2016 as Party of Regions but changed its name to the Realists soon afterwards.\n\nThe Realists launched their campaign for the 2017 elections on 14 February 2017. Robejšek said that he hoped to win 20% of votes in the election.\n\nMartin Lank, who was elected as a member of Dawn of Direct Democracy, joined the Realists on 25 May 2017. Robejšek stated that the party was prepared to accept other MPs if they decided to join the party and shared its views. Another MP from Dawn, Jana Hnyková, joined the Realists on 5 September 2017.\n\nOn 21 August 2017, the Realists announced Jiří Hynek as their presidential candidate in the 2018 election.\n\nThe Realists received 0.7% of votes in the 2017 legislative election, failing to reach the 5% electoral threshold. Party leaders refused to describe the result as a defeat, and Jiří Hynek stated that the Realists should prepare for the next election.\n"}
{"id": "757138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=757138", "title": "Red Strings", "text": "Red Strings\n\nThe Red Strings (also Heroes of America) were a group in the Southern United States during the American Civil War. They favored peace, an end to the Confederacy, and a return to the Union. They began early in the war as a group of Unionists and Quakers in the Piedmont regions of North Carolina and Virginia where slavery was largely nonexistent and the causes favoring secession were weakest.\n\nWith the war weariness increasing in civilian parts of the Confederacy during 1863, pro-Union activities began to become organized as resistance. The Loyal Order of the Heroes of America were started by several men from North Carolina, including Henderson Adams, North Carolina's State Auditor during this time. The actual leader was John Pool, later a Republican Senator from North Carolina, who spent some time in a jail in Richmond, and who traveled through western Virginia in 1864.\n\nTheir name comes from their insignia of red strings worn on their lapels or hung outside of their windows to distinguish themselves from the rebels. This symbol comes from the Biblical story of the harlot Rahab, who had helped two spies of Israel escape from Jericho with a red cord, and was advised by them to hang a red thread on her window as a recognition symbol and to show her faith. Joshua, Chapter 2, Verses 18, 21, and Chapter 6, verse 23: \"..thou shalt bind this line of scarlet in the window which thou didst let us down by... ...and she bound the scarlet line in the window... ...And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her father's household, and all that she had. And she dwellest in Israel even unto this day; because she hid the messengers that Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.\"\n\nThe organization was completely decentralized, and most knew only one other member for certain; most of their anti-Confederate activities were carried out in secret. Some estimate that by the war's end, as many as 10,000 people belonged to the Red Strings. They were comparably as disruptive to the Southern war effort as the Copperheads were to the Union.\n\n\"The best developed of the peace societies, the Order of the Heroes of America, may have been organized as early as Dec. 1861, though by whom and where is uncertain. Active in North Carolina, southwestern Virginia, and eastern Tennessee, the Heroes protected deserters, aided spies and escaped prisoners, and supplied Federal authorities with information about Confederate troop movements and strength to bring about a Confederate defeat. Brig. Gen. John Echols, who investigated the order in Virginia when it was discovered there in 1864, believed it had been formed at the suggestion of Federal authorities. Union civilian and military officials cooperated with the order by assuring its members safe passage through the lines and by offering them exemption from military service if they deserted, protection for their property, and a share of confiscated Confederate estates after the war. In addition to their signs and passwords, the Heroes identified themselves by wearing a red string on their lapels and thus were nicknamed the Red Strings\" and the 'Red-String Band.'\"\n\nThe Order of the Heroes of America extended into southwestern Virginia as well. Paint Bank, Virginia was known as a Union-Hole because of the pro-Union membership in these societies. One of the members of the Order was a Christiansburg, Virginia wheelwright named Williams. It is not known if this is the same man named Williams that residents of Back Valley, Virginia spoke about as a member of the Loyal League.\n\nIn addition to the organized opposition groups such as the Red Strings and Heroes of America, there were other groups that were closer to bandits. Known as \"Buffaloes,\" these men and some women were a mixture of Confederate deserters, draft-dodgers, pro-Union men, escaped slaves and other men escaping the noose such as arsonists, rapists and murderers. Living in small groups in the swamps of eastern North Carolina or the woods of the central and western parts of that state, they attacked isolated homes, often with impunity, since many of the men were away at war, and there was no protection from their lawlessness. \"The correspondents in the war records seem unaware that North Carolina, like all Gaul, was divided into three parts- the Confederate, the Yankee and the Buffalo. It was easier to let the Yankee garrison the strip of coast and keep him there than have the expense of it ourselves, but it is amusing to read of \"The Rebels Invading North Carolina.\"\n\nThe \"Red Strings\" were also interested in forming blacks into soldiers and having them fight for the Union as well. There are miscellaneous accounts of these black companies being formed during the war, as are mentioned in Elizabeth Lee Battle's autobiography, \"Forget-Me-Nots of the Civil War.\"\n\nAfter the war, they actively opposed the Ku Klux Klan. \"One of the main causes for the organization of the Ku Klux Klan in North Carolina was to combat the influence of the Union League. Governor William Woods Holden was the first president of the League in North Carolina, and James H. Harris, a Negro, was Vice-president. \" Prof. Lefler later recounts: \"If there had been no Loyal League in North Carolina, there would have been no Ku Klux Klan, or clubbing together of the white people there… Still the negroes [sic] operate upon each other, so that one dare not depart from the ranks; they are arrayed yet in a solid phalanx…\" He later quotes from a Congressional investigation into the origins of the KKK in North Carolina: \"It was at a time when the Republican party had three secret organizations in operation in the state, the Union League, the Heroes of America, and the Red Strings. They had a paper called the Red String, printed at Greensorough [sic], edited by Mr. Tourgee (Albion W. Tourgée). Our friends thought it proper to organize a secret society for the purpose of counteracting that influence.- Ku Klux reports, North Carolina Testimony, pp. 8, 309-310, 318, 363.\"\n\nThe term \"Red Strings\" became popular among different groups after the war. Indeed, during the next generation, there was an exceptional baseball team formed in Yadkin County with the name, \"Red Strings.\" They only lost three games out of some sixty games that they played in their brief career. Many of the players were trained in Quaker schools, although they denied any relation to the \"Red Strings\" of the Civil War. \"How the name Red Strings originated is not known definitely. Members think Captain Gus Long, organizer and manager, gave the name… Elkin-ites didn't like the name Red Strings- too much like night riding political group about this time, the Red Shirts, reminiscent of the earlier Ku Klux Klan. They preferred to call them the Longtown boys.\"\n\nIt is unknown if an earlier Southern conspiracy with a similar name, also organized by slaves and indentured servants, that took place in Georgia in the 18th century had any influence or association with the later Red Strings. In 1735 and 1736, a conspiracy among indentured servants was quashed in Savannah, Georgia and in South Carolina. The servants would be known \"by a red string tied around their right wrist\" and they would kill the white masters and escape to join Native Americans, escaped slaves and other runaway indentured servants.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21950772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21950772", "title": "River crab (Internet slang)", "text": "River crab (Internet slang)\n\nRiver crab () and harmonious/harmonize/harmonization () are Internet slang terms created by Chinese netizens in reference to Internet censorship or the other censorship of China. In Chinese Mandarin, the word \"river crab\" (河蟹), which originally means Chinese mitten crab, sounds similar to \"harmonious/harmonize/harmonization\" () in the word \"harmonious society\" (和谐社会), ex-Chinese leader Hu Jintao's signature ideology.\n\nThe 2004 Chinese Communist Party announcement of the goal of constructing a \"harmonious society\" has been cited by the government of China as the reason for Internet censorship. As a result, Chinese netizens began to use the word \"harmonious/harmonize/harmonization\" (和谐) as a euphemism for censorship when the word for censorship itself was censored, particularly on BBSs. Following this, the word \"harmonious\" itself was censored, at which point Chinese netizens began to use the word for \"river crab\", a near homophone for \"harmonious\". In a further complication of meaning, sometimes aquatic product () is used in place of \"river crab\". \n\nThese euphemisms are also used as verbs. For example, instead of saying something has been censored, one might say \"it has been harmonized\" () or \"it has been river-crabbed\" (). The widespread use of \"river crab\" by Chinese netizens represents a sarcastic defiance against official discourse and censorship. Some observers, however, have warned that the practice may also reproduce domination, since it does not aim for the abolition of censorship. The sensitive words will remain silent as such, and as a result the everyday reappropriation of official language creates the conditions for the latter's perpetuation.\n\nA well-known picture usually named \"River crab society, three wearing watches\" (河蟹社会，三个戴表) illustrates the slang \"river crab\". In the picture, the three wristwatches refer to the Three Represents, where the Mandarin expressions used for \"represent\" () and \"Wearing watch(es)\" () are homophones. The satirized homophone of the three watches might be created by Chinese writer Wang Xiaofeng (), whose online nickname is \"Wearing three watches\" (戴三个表). An offensive term \"foolish bitch\" () is also used by anti-Communist Chinese people.\n\n"}
{"id": "22757393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22757393", "title": "Sheila McNamee", "text": "Sheila McNamee\n\nSheila McNamee is an American academic known for her work in human communication and social constructionism theory and practice. She is a Professor of Communication at the University of New Hampshire and founding member, Vice President and board member of the Taos Institute. She has authored numerous, books, chapters, and journal articles. Her work focuses on appreciative dialogic transformation within a variety of social and institutional contexts including psychotherapy, organizations, education, healthcare, and local communities. She engages constructionist practices in a variety of contexts to bring communities of participants with diametrically opposing viewpoints together to create livable futures.\n\nMcNamee is married to a scholar of communication (Professor John Lannamann). They reside in Durham, New Hampshire.\n\nMcNamee is a founder, board member and vice president of the Taos Institute. The Taos Institute is a nonprofit educational organization dedicated to the development of social constructionist theory and practices for purposes of world benefit. With over two hundred Associates around the world, the Taos Institute achieves their educational ends through conferences, workshops, publications, a Ph.D. program, distance learning programs, newsletters, learning networks, and web-based offerings. The Taos Institute also engages in collaborative partnerships with other national and international organizations.\n\nAwards received by McNamee include Class of 1944 Professorship at the University of New Hampshire (2001-2004) and the Lindberg Award for Outstanding Scholar/Teacher in the College of Liberal Arts at the University of New Hampshire (2007–2008). Most recently, Sheila was added to the Fulbright Specialists Roster (2012-2017) and received a Fulbright Specialist Grant to work with faculty and students at the University of Caldas in Manizales, Colombia (May–June, 2012), exploring social constructionist theory and practice in social work, family development, social sciences, social research, conflict resolution, and mediation.\n\nSheila McNamee is the author of several books on social construction.\n\nSheila co-authored \"Relational Responsibility: Resources for Sustainable Dialogue\" (1992) with Kenneth Gergen. In \"Relational Responsibility\", Sheila and Ken question the tradition of individual responsibility and transform the concept of responsibility by giving centre stage to the relational process rather than to the individual - replacing alienation and isolation with meaningful dialogue.\n\nMcNamee co-authored \"Research and Social Change: A Relational Constructionist Approach\" (2012) with Dian Marie Hosking. In this book, Sheila and Dian Marie bridge scholarly forms of inquiry and practitioners’ daily activities. They introduce inquiry as a process of relational construction, offering resources to practitioners who want to reflect on how their work generates practical effects. Sheila and Diane Marie lay out relational constructionist premises and explore these in terms of their generative possibilities both for inquiry and social change work.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44102649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44102649", "title": "Smart phone ad hoc network", "text": "Smart phone ad hoc network\n\nSmart phone ad hoc or smart phone ad hoc networks (SPANs) evolve from the underlying concept, architecture and technology behind a wireless ad hoc network. A smart phone is a device. Once embedded with ad hoc networking technology, a smart phone can create ad hoc networks among other devices. Smart phone ad hoc networks leverage the existing hardware (primarily Bluetooth and Wi-Fi) in commercially available smartphones to create peer-to-peer networks without relying on cellular carrier networks, wireless access points, or traditional network infrastructure. SPANs use the mechanism behind Wi-Fi ad-hoc mode, which allows phones to talk directly among each other, through a transparent neighbor and route discovery mechanism.\n\nSPANs differ from traditional hub and spoke networks, such as Wi-Fi Direct, in that they support multi-hop routing (ad hoc routing) and relays and there is no notion of a group leader, so peers can join and leave at will without destroying the network.\n\n\nThe ad hoc networking technology operating on Wi-Fi ad hoc mode, at the unlicensed ISM band of 2.4 GHz may result in profit loss by cellular carriers since ISM band is free and unlicensed while cellular carriers operate on licensed band at 900 MHz, 1200 MHz, 1800 MHz, etc. This has the potential to threaten telecommunication operators (telcos). Smart phone mobile ad hoc networks can operate independently and allow communications among smart phones users without the need for any 3G or 4G LTE signals to be present. Wi-Fi ad hoc mode was first implemented on Lucent WaveLan 802.11a/b on laptop computers. The technology success is now carried forward and used in smart phones, since Wi-Fi is present and embedded in all smart phones today.\n\n\nBelow are some of the recent applications of smart phone ad hoc networks in real life:\n\n\n\n\nIn Apple Inc. iPhones released with iOS version 7.0 and higher, multipeer connectivity APIs (application programmable interfaces) are enabled and provided to allow Apple iPhones to operate in peer-to-peer ad hoc mesh networking mode. This means iPhones can now talk to each other without using a cellular signal or connection. Currently, Apple uses multipeer to allow one to send photos and large files (up to GB) to peers. This application is called AirDrop and has been gaining popularity. With 700+ millions of iPhones being used globally, ad hoc peer-to-peer networks will gain pervasive presence almost instantly. \n\nMillions of teens and school kids in the United States have benefited and been using smart phone ad hoc networks to chat and communicate, without the need for Wi-Fi or cellular signals. The penetration will continue to grow, expanding to teens outside the US.\n\nBy merging Linux Wireless Extension API with the Android kernel source and recompiling, the modified version of Android can enable the ability to harness the ad hoc routing, communications and networking features of the onboard Wi-Fi chip. This empowers millions of Android phones (example Google Pixel phones) with ad hoc mesh connectivity and networking capabilities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26818", "title": "Stagflation", "text": "Stagflation\n\nIn economics, stagflation, a portmanteau of \"stagnation\" and \"inflation\", is a situation in which the inflation rate is high, the economic growth rate slows, and unemployment remains steadily high. It raises a dilemma for economic policy, since actions designed to lower inflation may exacerbate unemployment, and vice versa. The term is generally attributed to Iain Macleod, a British Conservative Party politician who became Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1970; Macleod coined the phrase in a speech to Parliament in 1965.\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes did not use the term, but some of his work refers to the conditions that most would recognise as stagflation. In the version of Keynesian macroeconomic theory that was dominant between the end of World War II and the late 1970s, inflation and recession were regarded as mutually exclusive, the relationship between the two being described by the Phillips curve. Stagflation is very costly and difficult to eradicate once it starts, both in social terms and in budget deficits.\n\nThe term \"stagflation\" was first coined during a period of inflation and unemployment in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom experienced an outbreak of inflation in the 1960s and 1970s. On 17 November 1965, Iain Macleod, the spokesman on economic issues for the United Kingdom's Conservative Party, warned of the gravity of the UK economic situation in the House of Commons: He used the term again on 7 July 1970, and the media began also to use it, for example in \"The Economist\" on 15 August 1970, and Newsweek on 19 March 1973.\n\nIn a Bank of England working papers series, article authors Edward Nelson and Kalin Nikolov (2002) examined causes and policy errors related to the Great Inflation in the United Kingdom in the 1970s, arguing that as inflation rose in the 1960s and 1970s, UK policy makers failed to recognize the primary role of monetary policy in controlling inflation. Instead, they attempted to use non-monetary policies and devices to respond to the economic crisis. Policy makers also made \"inaccurate estimates of the degree of excess demand in the economy, [which] contributed significantly to the outbreak of inflation in the United Kingdom in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nStagflation was not limited to the United Kingdom, however. Economists have shown that stagflation was prevalent among seven major economies from 1973 to 1982. After inflation rates began to fall in 1982, economists' focus shifted from the causes of stagflation to the \"determinants of productivity growth and the effects of real wages on the demand for labor\".\n\nEconomists offer two principal explanations for why stagflation occurs. First, stagflation can result when the economy faces a supply shock, such as a rapid increase in the price of oil. An unfavorable situation like that tends to raise prices at the same time as it slows economic growth by making production more costly and less profitable.\n\nSecond, the government can cause stagflation if it creates policies that harm industry while growing the money supply too quickly. These two things would probably have to occur simultaneously because policies that slow economic growth don't usually cause inflation, and policies that cause inflation don't usually slow economic growth.\n\nBoth explanations are offered in analyses of the global stagflation of the 1970s. It began with a huge rise in oil prices, but then continued as central banks used excessively stimulative monetary policy to counteract the resulting recession, causing a price/wage spiral.\n\nUp to the 1960s, many Keynesian economists ignored the possibility of stagflation, because historical experience suggested that high unemployment was typically associated with low inflation, and vice versa (this relationship is called the Phillips curve). The idea was that high demand for goods drives up prices, and also encourages firms to hire more; and likewise high employment raises demand. However, in the 1970s and 1980s, when stagflation occurred, it became obvious that the relationship between inflation and employment levels was not necessarily stable: that is, the Phillips relationship could shift. Macroeconomists became more skeptical of Keynesian theories, and Keynesians themselves reconsidered their ideas in search of an explanation for stagflation.\n\nThe explanation for the shift of the Phillips curve was initially provided by the monetarist economist Milton Friedman, and also by Edmund Phelps. Both argued that when workers and firms begin to expect more inflation, the Phillips curve shifts up (meaning that more inflation occurs at any given level of unemployment). In particular, they suggested that if inflation lasted for several years, workers and firms would start to take it into account during wage negotiations, causing workers' wages and firms' costs to rise more quickly, thus further increasing inflation. While this idea was a severe criticism of early Keynesian theories, it was gradually accepted by most Keynesians, and has been incorporated into New Keynesian economic models.\n\nNeo-Keynesian theory distinguished two distinct kinds of inflation: demand-pull (caused by shifts of the aggregate demand curve) and cost-push (caused by shifts of the aggregate supply curve). Stagflation, in this view, is caused by cost-push inflation. Cost-push inflation occurs when some force or condition increases the costs of production. This could be caused by government policies (such as taxes) or from purely external factors such as a shortage of natural resources or an act of war.\n\nContemporary Keynesian analyses argue that stagflation can be understood by distinguishing factors that affect aggregate demand from those that affect aggregate supply. While monetary and fiscal policy can be used to stabilise the economy in the face of aggregate demand fluctuations, they are not very useful in confronting aggregate supply fluctuations. In particular, an adverse shock to aggregate supply, such as an increase in oil prices, can give rise to stagflation.\n\nSupply theories are based on the neo-Keynesian cost-push model and attribute stagflation to significant disruptions to the supply side of the supply-demand market equation, for example, when there is a sudden real or relative scarcity of key commodities, natural resources, or natural capital needed to produce goods and services. Other factors may also cause supply problems, for example, social and political conditions such as policy changes, acts of war, extremely restrictive government control of production. In this view, stagflation is thought to occur when there is an adverse supply shock (for example, a sudden increase in the price of oil or a new tax) that causes a subsequent jump in the \"cost\" of goods and services (often at the wholesale level). In technical terms, this results in contraction or negative shift in an economy's aggregate supply curve.\n\nIn the resource scarcity scenario (Zinam 1982), stagflation results when economic growth is inhibited by a restricted supply of raw materials. That is, when the actual or relative supply of basic materials (fossil fuels (energy), minerals, agricultural land in production, timber, etc.) decreases and/or cannot be increased fast enough in response to rising or continuing demand. The resource shortage may be a real physical shortage or a relative scarcity due to factors such as taxes or bad monetary policy which have affected the \"cost\" or availability of raw materials. This is consistent with the cost-push inflation factors in neo-Keynesian theory (above). The way this plays out is that after supply shock occurs, the economy will first try to maintain momentum – that is, consumers and businesses will begin paying higher prices in order to maintain their level of demand. The central bank may exacerbate this by increasing the money supply, by lowering interest rates for example, in an effort to combat a recession. The increased money supply props up the demand for goods and services, though demand would normally drop during a recession.\n\nIn the Keynesian model, higher prices will prompt increases in the supply of goods and services. However, during a supply shock (i.e. scarcity, \"bottleneck\" in resources, etc.), supplies don't respond as they normally would to these price pressures. So, inflation jumps and output drops, producing stagflation.\n\nFollowing Richard Nixon's imposition of wage and price controls on 15 August 1971, an initial wave of cost-push shocks in commodities were blamed for causing spiraling prices. The second major shock was the 1973 oil crisis, when the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) constrained the worldwide supply of oil. Both events, combined with the overall energy shortage that characterized the 1970s, resulted in actual or relative scarcity of raw materials. The price controls resulted in shortages at the point of purchase, causing, for example, queues of consumers at fuelling stations and increased production costs for industry.\n\nThrough the mid-1970s, it was alleged that none of the major macroeconomic models (Keynesian, New Classical, and monetarist) were able to explain stagflation.\n\nLater, an explanation was provided based on the effects of adverse supply shocks on both inflation and output. According to Blanchard (2009), these adverse events were one of two components of stagflation; the other was \"ideas\", which Robert Lucas (famous for the Lucas supply curve), Thomas Sargent, and Robert Barro were cited as expressing as \"wildly incorrect\" and \"fundamentally flawed\" predictions [of Keynesian economics] which, they said, left stagflation to be explained by \"contemporary students of the business cycle\". In this discussion, Blanchard hypothesizes that the recent oil price increases could trigger another period of stagflation, although this has not yet happened (pg. 152).\n\nA purely neoclassical view of the macroeconomy rejects the idea that monetary policy can have real effects. Neoclassical macroeconomists argue that real economic quantities, like real output, employment, and unemployment, are determined by real factors only. Nominal factors like changes in the money supply only affect nominal variables like inflation. The neoclassical idea that nominal factors cannot have real effects is often called \"monetary neutrality\" or also the \"classical dichotomy\".\n\nSince the neoclassical viewpoint says that real phenomena like unemployment are essentially unrelated to nominal phenomena like inflation, a neoclassical economist would offer two separate explanations for 'stagnation' and 'inflation'. Neoclassical explanations of stagnation (low growth and high unemployment) include inefficient government regulations or high benefits for the unemployed that give people less incentive to look for jobs. Another neoclassical explanation of stagnation is given by real business cycle theory, in which any decrease in labour productivity makes it efficient to work less. The main neoclassical explanation of inflation is very simple: it happens when the monetary authorities increase the money supply too much.\n\nIn the neoclassical viewpoint, the real factors that determine output and unemployment affect the aggregate supply curve only. The nominal factors that determine inflation affect the aggregate demand curve only. When some adverse changes in real factors are shifting the aggregate supply curve left at the same time that unwise monetary policies are shifting the aggregate demand curve right, the result is stagflation.\n\nThus the main explanation for stagflation under a classical view of the economy is simply policy errors that affect both inflation and the labour market. Ironically, a very clear argument in favour of the classical explanation of stagflation was provided by Keynes himself. In 1919, John Maynard Keynes described the inflation and economic stagnation gripping Europe in his book The Economic Consequences of the Peace. Keynes wrote:\n\nKeynes explicitly pointed out the relationship between governments printing money and inflation.\n\nKeynes also pointed out how government price controls discourage production.\n\nKeynes detailed the relationship between German government deficits and inflation.\n\nWhile most economists believe that changes in money supply can have some real effects in the short run, neoclassical and neo-Keynesian economists tend to agree that there are no long-run effects from changing the money supply. Therefore, even economists who consider themselves neo-Keynesians usually believe that in the long run, money is neutral. In other words, while neoclassical and neo-Keynesian models are often seen as competing points of view, they can also be seen as two descriptions appropriate for different time horizons. Many mainstream textbooks today treat the neo-Keynesian model as a more appropriate description of the economy in the short run, when prices are 'sticky', and treat the neoclassical model as a more appropriate description of the economy in the long run, when prices have sufficient time to adjust fully.\n\nTherefore, while mainstream economists today might often attribute short periods of stagflation (not more than a few years) to adverse changes in supply, they would not accept this as an explanation of very prolonged stagflation. More prolonged stagflation would be explained as the effect of inappropriate government policies: excessive regulation of product markets and labor markets leading to long-run stagnation, and excessive growth of the money supply leading to long-run inflation.\n\nPolitical economists Jonathan Nitzan and Shimshon Bichler have proposed an explanation of stagflation as part of a theory they call differential accumulation, which says firms seek to beat the average profit and capitalisation rather than maximise. According to this theory, periods of mergers and acquisitions oscillate with periods of stagflation. When mergers and acquisitions are no longer politically feasible (governments clamp down with anti-monopoly rules), stagflation is used as an alternative to have higher relative profit than the competition. With increasing mergers and acquisitions, the power to implement stagflation increases.\n\nStagflation appears as a societal crisis, such as during the period of the oil crisis in the 70s and in 2007 to 2010. Inflation in stagflation, however, doesn't affect all firms equally. Dominant firms are able to increase their own prices at a faster rate than competitors. While in the aggregate no one appears to be profiting, differentially dominant firms improve their positions with higher relative profits and higher relative capitalisation. Stagflation is not due to any actual supply shock, but because of the societal crisis that hints at a supply crisis. It is mostly a 20th and 21st century phenomenon that has been mainly used by the \"weapondollar-petrodollar coalition\" creating or using Middle East crises for the benefit of pecuniary interests.\n\nDemand-pull stagflation theory explores the idea that stagflation can result exclusively from monetary shocks without any concurrent supply shocks or negative shifts in economic output potential. Demand-pull theory describes a scenario where stagflation can occur following a period of monetary policy implementations that cause inflation. This theory was first proposed in 1999 by Eduardo Loyo of Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government.\n\nSupply-side economics emerged as a response to US stagflation in the 1970s. It largely attributed inflation to the ending of the Bretton Woods system in 1971 and the lack of a specific price reference in the subsequent monetary policies (Keynesian and Monetarism). Supply-side economists asserted that the contraction component of stagflation resulted from an inflation-induced rise in real tax rates (see bracket creep)\n\nAdherents to the Austrian School maintain that creation of new money ex nihilo benefits the creators and early recipients of the new money relative to late recipients. Money creation is not wealth creation; it merely allows early money recipients to outbid late recipients for resources, goods, and services.\nSince the actual producers of wealth are typically late recipients, increases in the money supply weakens wealth formation and undermines the rate of economic growth. Says Austrian economist Frank Shostak:\n\n\"The increase in the money supply rate of growth coupled with the slowdown in the rate of growth of goods produced is what the increase in the rate of price inflation is all about. (Note that a price is the amount of money paid for a unit of a good.) What we have here is a faster increase in price inflation and a decline in the rate of growth in the production of goods. But this is exactly what stagflation is all about, i.e., an increase in price inflation and a fall in real economic growth. Popular opinion is that stagflation is totally made up. It seems therefore that the phenomenon of stagflation is the normal outcome of loose monetary policy. This is in agreement with [Phelps and Friedman (PF)]. Contrary to PF, however, we maintain that stagflation is not caused by the fact that in the short run people are fooled by the central bank. Stagflation is the natural result of monetary pumping which weakens the pace of economic growth and at the same time raises the rate of increase of the prices of goods and services.\"\n\nIn 1984, journalist and activist Jane Jacobs proposed the failure of major macroeconomic theories to explain stagflation was due to their focus on the nation as the salient unit of economic analysis, rather than the city. She proposed the key to avoiding stagflation was for a nation to focus on the development of \"import-replacing cities\", which would experience economic ups and downs at different times, providing overall national stability and avoiding widespread stagflation. According to Jacobs, import-replacing cities are those which have developed economies balancing their own production with domestic imports, meaning they can respond with flexibility as economic supply and demand cycles change over time. While lauding her originality, clarity, and consistency, urban planning scholars have criticized Jacobs for not comparing her own ideas to those of major theorists (e.g., Adam Smith, Karl Marx) with the same depth and breadth they developed, as well as a lack of scholarly documentation. Despite these issues, Jacobs' work is notable for having widespread public readership and influence on decision-makers.\n\nStagflation undermined support for the Keynesian consensus.\n\nFederal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker very sharply increased interest rates from 1979–1983 in what was called a \"disinflationary scenario.\" After U.S. prime interest rates had soared into the double-digits, inflation did come down; these interest rates were the highest long-term prime interest rates that had ever existed in modern capital markets. Volcker is often credited with having stopped at least the inflationary side of stagflation, although the American economy also dipped into recession. Starting in approximately 1983, growth began a recovery. Both fiscal stimulus and money supply growth were policy at this time. A five- to six-year jump in unemployment during the Volcker disinflation suggests Volcker may have trusted unemployment to self-correct and return to its natural rate within a reasonable period.\n\n"}
{"id": "1517620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1517620", "title": "Steady-state economy", "text": "Steady-state economy\n\nA steady-state economy is an economy made up of a constant stock of physical wealth (capital) and a constant population size. In effect, such an economy does not grow in the course of time. The term usually refers to the national economy of a particular country, but it is also applicable to the economic system of a city, a region, or the entire world. Early in the history of economic thought, classical economist Adam Smith of the 18th century developed the concept of a \"stationary state\" of an economy: Smith believed that any national economy in the world would sooner or later settle in a final state of stationarity.\n\nSince the 1970s, the concept of a steady-state economy has been associated mainly with the work of leading ecological economist Herman Daly. As Daly's concept of a \"steady-state\" includes the ecological analysis of natural resource flows through the economy, his concept differs from the original classical concept of a \"stationary state\". One other difference is that Daly recommends immediate political action to establish the steady-state economy by imposing permanent government restrictions on all resource use, whereas economists of the classical period believed that the final stationary state of any economy would evolve by itself without any government intervention.\n\nThe world's mounting ecological problems have brought about a widening interest in the concept of a steady-state economy. Critics of the steady-state economy usually object to it by arguing that resource decoupling, technological development, and the unrestrained operation of market mechanisms are capable of overcoming any resource scarcity, any rampant pollution, or population overshoot. Proponents of the steady-state economy, on the other hand, maintain that these objections remain insubstantial and mistaken — and that the need for a steady-state economy is becoming more compelling every day.\n\nA steady-state economy is not to be confused with economic stagnation: Whereas a steady-state economy is established as the result of deliberate political action, economic stagnation is the unexpected and unwelcome failure of a growth economy.\n\nAn ideological contrast to the steady-state economy is formed by the concept of a post-scarcity economy.\n\nHerman Daly defines his concept of a steady-state economy as an economic system made up of a constant stock of physical wealth (capital) and a constant stock of people (population), both stocks to be maintained by a flow of natural resources through the system. The first component, the constant stocks, is similar to the concept of the \"stationary state\", originally used in classical economics; the second component, the flow of natural resources, is a new ecological feature, presently also used in the academic discipline of ecological economics. The \"durability\" of both of the constant stocks is to be maximized: The more durable the stock of capital is, the smaller the flow of natural resources is needed to maintain the stock; likewise, a 'durable' population means a population enjoying a high life expectancy — something desirable by itself — maintained by a low birth rate and an equally low death rate. Taken together, higher durability translates into better ecology in the system as a whole.\n\nDaly's concept of a steady-state economy is based on the vision that man's economy is an open subsystem embedded in a finite natural environment of scarce resources and fragile ecosystems. The economy is maintained by importing valuable natural resources from the input end and exporting valueless waste and pollution at the output end in a constant and irreversible flow. Any subsystem of a finite nongrowing system must itself at some point also become nongrowing and start maintaining itself in a steady-state as far as possible. This vision is opposed to mainstream neoclassical economics, where the economy is represented by an isolated and circular model with goods and services exchanging endlessly between companies and households, without exhibiting any physical contact to the natural environment.\n\nIn the early 2010s, reviewers sympathetic towards Daly's concept of a steady-state economy have passed the concurrent judgement that although his concept remains beyond what is politically feasible at present, there is room for mainstream thinking and collective action to approach the concept in the future. \n\nThe world's mounting ecological problems have stimulated interest in the concept of a steady-state economy. Since the 1990s, most metrics have provided evidence that the volume of the world economy far exceeds critical global limits to economic growth already. According to the ecological footprint measure, earth's carrying capacity — that is, earth's long-term capacity to sustain human populations and consumption levels — was exceeded by some 30 percent in 1995. By 2018, this figure had increased to some 70 percent. In effect, mankind is confronted with planetary overshoot-and-collapse in our time. The significant impact of human activities on earth's ecosystems has motivated some geologists to propose the present epoch be named the \"anthropocene\". The following issues have raised much concern worldwide:\n<br><br>\nWorld population is expected to reach 9.8 billion by 2050, and continue growing thereafter. This unprecedented number of people is already stressing natural environments and wildlife habitats everywhere, increasing pollution levels, and worsening human living conditions. Uncontrolled urbanisation forces millions to live in congested shanty towns, and large cities swell to become megacities with high crime slum areas. Overpopulation may even lead to social conflict and violence, when too many people, especially young males, compete for too few employment opportunities in stagnating economies.\n<br><br>\nAir pollution emanating from motor vehicles and industrial plants is damaging public health and increasing mortality rates. The concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is the apparent source of global warming and climate changes. Extreme regional weather patterns and rising sea levels caused by warming degrade living conditions in many — if not all — parts of the world. The warming already poses a security threat to many nations and works as a so-called 'threat multiplier' to geo-political stability. Even worse, the loss of Arctic permafrost may be triggering a massive release of methane and other greenhouse gases from thawing soils in the region, thereby overwhelming political action to counter climate change. If critical temperature thresholds are crossed, a so-called 'Hothouse climate state' may be the end result in the future.\n<br><br>\nNon-renewable mineral reserves are currently extracted at high and unsustainable rates from earth's crust. Remaining reserves are likely to become ever more costly to extract in the near future, and will reach depletion at some point. The era of relatively peaceful economic expansion that has prevailed globally since World War II may be interrupted by unexpected supply shocks or simply be succeeded by the peaking depletion paths of oil and other valuable minerals.\n<br><br>\nUse of renewable resources in excess of their replenishment rates is undermining ecological stability worldwide. Between 2000 and 2012, deforestation resulted in some 14 percent of the equivalent of earth's original forest cover to be cut down. Tropical rainforests have been subject to deforestation at a rapid pace for decades — especially in west and central Africa and in Brazil — mostly due to subsistence farming, population pressure, and urbanization. Population pressures also strain the world's soil systems, leading to land degradation, mostly in developing countries. Global erosion rates on conventional cropland are estimated to exceed soil creation rates by more than ten times. Widespread overuse of groundwater results in water deficits in many countries. By 2025, water scarcity could impact the living conditions of two-thirds of the world's population.\n<br><br>\nThe destructive impact of human activity on wildlife habitats worldwide is accelerating the extinction of rare species, thereby substantially reducing earth's biodiversity. The natural nitrogen cycle is heavily overloaded by industrial nitrogen fixation and use, thereby disrupting most known types of ecosystems. The accumulating plastic debris in the oceans decimates aquatic life. Ocean acidification due to the excess concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is resulting in coral bleaching and impedes shell-bearing organisms. Arctic sea ice decline caused by global warming is endangering the polar bear.\n<br><br>\nThese mounting concerns have prompted an increasing number of academics and other writers to point to limits to economic growth, and to question — and even oppose — the prevailing ideology of infinite economic growth.\n\nFor centuries, economists and other scholars have considered matters of natural resource scarcity and limits to growth, from the early classical economists in the 18th and 19th centuries down to the ecological concerns that emerged in the second half of the 20th century and developed into the formation of ecological economics as an independent academic subdiscipline in economics.\n\nFrom Adam Smith and onwards, economists in the classical period of economic theorising described the general development of society in terms of a contrast between the scarcity of arable agricultural land on the one hand, and the growth of population and capital on the other hand. The incomes from gross production were distributed as rents, profits and wages among landowners, capitalists and labourers respectively, and these three classes were incessantly engaged in the struggle for increasing their own share. The accumulation of capital (net investments) would sooner or later come to an end as the rate of profit fell to a minimum or to nil. At that point, the economy would settle in a final stationary state with a constant population size and a constant stock of capital. \n\nAdam Smith's magnum opus on \"The Wealth of Nations\", published in 1776, laid the foundation of classical economics in Britain. Smith thereby disseminated and established a concept that has since been a cornerstone in economics throughout most of the world: In a liberal capitalist society, provided with a stable institutional and legal framework, an 'invisible hand' will ensure that the enlightened self-interest of all members of society will contribute to the growth and prosperity of society as a whole, thereby leading to an 'obvious and simple system of natural liberty'.\n\nSmith was convinced of the beneficial effect of the enlightened self-interest on the wealth of nations; but he was less certain this wealth would grow forever. Smith observed that any country in the world found itself in either a 'progressive', a 'stationary', or a 'declining' state: Although England was wealthier than its North American colonies, wages were higher in the latter place as wealth in North America was growing faster than in England; hence, North America was in the 'cheerful and hearty' progressive state. In China, on the other hand, wages were low, the condition of poor people was scantier than in any nation in Europe, and more marriages were contracted here because the 'horrid' killing of newborn babies was permitted and even widely practised; hence, China was in the 'dull' stationary state, although it did not yet seem to be declining. In nations situated in the 'melancholic' declining state, the higher ranks of society would fall down and settle for occupation amid the lower ranks, while the lowest ranks would either subsist on a miserable and insufficient wage, resort to begging or crime, or slide into starvation and early death. Bengal and some other English settlements in the East Indies possibly found themselves in this state, Smith reckoned.\n\nSmith pointed out that as wealth was growing in any nation, the rate of profit would tend to fall and investment opportunities would diminish. In a nation that had thereby reached this 'full complement of riches', society would finally settle in a stationary state with a constant stock of people and capital. In an 18th-century anticipation of \"The Limits to Growth\" (see below), Smith described the state as follows:\n\nAccording to Smith, Holland seemed to be approaching this stationary state, although at a much higher level than in China. Smith believed the laws and institutions of China prevented this country from achieving the potential wealth its soil, climate and situation might have admitted of. Smith was unable to provide any contemporary examples of a nation in the world that had in fact reached the full complement of riches and thus had settled in stationarity, because, as he conjectured, \"... perhaps no country has ever yet arrived at this degree of opulence.\"\n\nIn the early 19th century, David Ricardo was the leading economist of the day and the champion of British \"laissez-faire\" liberalism. He is known today for his free trade principle of comparative advantage, and for his formulation of the controversial labor theory of value. Ricardo replaced Adam Smith's empirical reasoning with abstract principles and deductive argument. This new methodology would later become the norm in economics as a science.\n\nIn Ricardo's times, Britain's trade with the European continent was somewhat disrupted during the Napoleonic Wars that had raged since 1803. The Continental System brought into effect a large-scale embargo against British trade, whereby the nation's food supply came to rely heavily on domestic agriculture to the benefit of the landowning classes. When the wars ended with Napoleon's final defeat in 1815, the landowning classes dominating the British parliament had managed to tighten the existing Corn Laws in order to retain their monopoly status on the home market during peacetime. The controversial Corn Laws were a protectionist two-sided measure of subsidies on corn exports and tariffs on corn imports. The tightening was opposed by both the capitalist and the labouring classes, as the high price of bread effectively reduced real profits and real wages in the economy. So was the political setting when Ricardo published his treatise \"On the Principles of Political Economy and Taxation\" in 1817.\n\nAccording to Ricardo, the limits to growth were ever present due to scarcity of arable agricultural land in the country. In the wake of the wartime period, the British economy seemed to be approaching the stationary state as population was growing, plots of land with lower fertility were put into agricultural use, and the rising rents of the rural landowning class were crowding out the profits of the urban capitalists. This was the broad outline of Ricardo's controversial land rent theory. Ricardo believed that the only way for Britain to avoid the stationary state was to increase her volume of international trade: The country should export more industrial products and start importing cheap agricultural products from abroad in turn. However, this course of development was impeded by the Corn Laws that seemed to be hampering both the industrialisation and the internationalization of the British economy. In the 1820s, Ricardo and his followers – Ricardo himself died in 1823 – directed much of their fire at the Corn Laws in order to have them repealed, and various other free trade campaigners borrowed indiscriminately from Ricardo's doctrines to suit their agenda.\n\nThe Corn Laws were not repealed before 1846. In the meantime, the British economy kept growing, a fact that effectively undermined the credibility and thrust of Ricardian economics in Britain; but Ricardo had by now established himself as the first stationary state theorist in the history of economic thought.\n\nRicardo's preoccupation with class conflict anticipated the work of Karl Marx (see below).\n\nJohn Stuart Mill was the leading economist, philosopher and social reformer in mid-19th century Britain. His economics treatise on the \"Principles of Political Economy\", published in 1848, attained status as the standard textbook in economics throughout the English-speaking world until the turn of the century.\n\nA champion of classical liberalism, Mill believed that an ideal society should allow all individuals to pursue their own good without any interference from others or from government. Also a utilitarian philosopher, Mill regarded the 'Greatest Happiness Principle' as the ultimate ideal for a harmonious society:\n\nMill's concept of the stationary state was strongly coloured by these ideals. Mill conjectured that the stationary state of society was not too far away in the future:\n\nContrary to both Smith and Ricardo before him, Mill took an optimistic view on the future stationary state. Mill could not \"... regard the stationary state of capital and wealth with the unaffected aversion so generally manifested toward it by political economists of the old school.\" Instead, Mill attributed many important qualities to this future state, he even believed the state would bring about \"... a very considerable improvement on our present condition.\" According to Mill, the stationary state was at one and the same time inevitable, necessary and desirable: It was \"inevitable\", because the accumulation of capital would bring about a falling rate of profit that would diminish investment opportunities and hamper further accumulation; it was also \"necessary\", because mankind had to learn how to reduce its size and its level of consumption within the boundaries set by nature and by employment opportunities; finally, the stationary state was \"desirable\", as it would ease the introduction of public income redistibution schemes, create more equality and put an end to man's ruthless struggle to get by — instead, the human spirit would be liberated to the benefit of more elevated social and cultural activities, 'the graces of life'.\n\nHence, Mill was able to express all of his liberal ideals for mankind through his concept of the stationary state. It has been argued that Mill essentially made a quality-of-life argument for the stationary state.\n\nWhen the influence of John Stuart Mill and his \"Principles\" declined, the classical-liberalist period of economic theorising came to an end. By the turn of the 19th century, Marxism and neoclassical economics had emerged to dominate economics. This development led to the exclusion of any concern with natural resource scarcity in economic modelling and analysis:\n\n\nTaken together, it has been argued that \"... if Judeo-Christian monotheism took nature out of religion, Anglo-American economists (after about 1880) took nature out of economics.\" Almost one century later, Herman Daly has \nreintegrated nature into economics in his concept of a steady-state economy (see below).\n\nJohn Maynard Keynes was the paradigm founder of modern macroeconomics, and is widely considered today to be the most influential economist of the 20th century. Keynes rejected the basic tenet of classical economics that free markets would lead to full employment by themselves. Consequently, he recommended government intervention to stimulate aggregate demand in the economy, a macroeconomic policy now known as Keynesian economics. Keynes also believed that capital accumulation would reach saturation at some point in the future.\n\nIn his essay from 1930 on \"The Economic Possibilities of Our Grandchildren\", Keynes ventured to look one hundred years ahead into the future and predict the standard of living in the 21st century. Writing at the beginning of the Great Depression, Keynes rejected the prevailing \"bad attack of economic pessimism\" of his own time and foresaw that by 2030, the grandchildren of his generation would live in a state of abundance, where saturation would have been reached. People would find themselves liberated from such economic activities as saving and capital accumulation, and be able to get rid of 'pseudo-moral principles' — avarice, exaction of interest, love of money — that had characterized capitalistic societies so far. Instead, people would devote themselves to the true art of life, to live \"wisely and agreeably and well.\" Mankind would finally have solved \"the economic problem,\" that is, the struggle for existence.\n\nThe similarity between John Stuart Mill's concept of the stationary state (see above) and Keynes's predictions in this essay has been noted. It has been argued that although Keynes was right about future growth rates, he underestimated the inequalities prevailing today, both within and across countries. He was also wrong in predicting that greater wealth would induce more leisure spent; in fact, the reverse trend seems to be true.\n\nIn his magnum opus on \"The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money\", Keynes looked only one generation ahead into the future and predicted that state intervention balancing aggregate demand would by then have caused capital accumulation to reach the point of saturation. The marginal efficiency of capital as well as the rate of interest would both be brought down to zero, and — if population was not increasing rapidly — society would finally \"... attain the conditions of a quasi-stationary community where change and progress would result only from changes in technique, taste, population and institutions ...\" Keynes believed this development would bring about the disappearance of the rentier class, something he welcomed: Keynes argued that rentiers incurred no sacrifice for their earnings, and their savings did not lead to productive investments unless aggregate demand in the economy was sufficiently high. \"I see, therefore, the rentier aspect of capitalism as a transitional phase which will disappear when it has done its work.\"\n\nThe economic expansion following World War II took place while mainstream economics largely neglected the importance of natural resources and environmental constraints in the development. Addressing this discrepancy, ecological concerns emerged in academia around 1970. Later on, these concerns developed into the formation of ecological economics as an academic subdiscipline in economics.\n\nAfter the ravages of World War II, the industrialised part of the world experienced almost three decades of unprecedented and prolonged economic expansion. This expansion — known today as the Post–World War II economic expansion — was brought about by international financial stability, low oil prices and ever increasing labour productivity in manufacturing. During the era, all the advanced countries who founded — or later joined — the OECD enjoyed robust and sustained growth rates as well as full employment. In the 1970s, the expansion ended with the 1973 oil crisis, resulting in the 1973–75 recession and the collapse of the Bretton Woods monetary system.\n\nThroughout this era, mainstream economics — dominated by both neoclassical economics and Keynesian economics — developed theories and models where natural resources and environmental constraints were neglected. Conservation issues related specifically to agriculture and forestry were left to specialists in the subdiscipline of environmental economics at the margins of the mainstream. As the theoretical framework of neoclassical economics — namely general equilibrium theory — was uncritically adopted and maintained by even environmental economics, this subdiscipline was rendered largely unable to consider important issues of concern to environmental policy.\n\nIn the years around 1970, the widening discrepancy between an ever-growing world economy on the one hand, and a mainstream economics discipline not taking into account the importance of natural resources and environmental constraints on the other hand, was finally addressed — indeed, \"challenged\" — in academia by a few unorthodox economists and researchers.\n\nDuring the short period of time from 1966 to 1972, four works were published addressing the importance of natural resources and the environment to human society:\n\nTaken together, these four works were seminal in bringing about the formation of ecological economics later on.\n\nAlthough most of the theoretical and foundational work behind ecological economics was in place by the early 1970s, a long gestation period elapsed before this new academic subdiscipline in economics was properly named and institutionalized. Ecological economics was formally founded in 1988 as the culmination of a series of conferences and meetings through the 1980s, where key scholars interested in the ecology-economy interdependency were interacting with each other. The most important people involved in the establishment were Herman Daly and Robert Costanza from the US; AnnMari Jansson from Sweden; and Juan Martínez-Alier from Spain (Catalonia). Since 1989, the discipline has been organised in the International Society for Ecological Economics that publishes the journal of \"Ecological Economics\".\n\nWhen the ecological economics subdiscipline was established, Herman Daly's 'preanalytic vision' of the economy was widely shared among the members who joined in: The human economy is an open subsystem of a finite and non-growing ecosystem (earth's natural environment), and any subsystem of a fixed nongrowing system must itself at some point also become nongrowing. Indeed, it has been argued that the subdiscipline itself was born out of frustration with the unwillingness of the established disciplines to accept this vision. However, ecological economics has since been overwhelmed by the influence and domination of neoclassical economics and its everlasting free market orthodoxy. This development has been deplored by activistic ecological economists as an 'incoherent', 'shallow' and overly 'pragmatic' slide.\n\nSince the 1970s, Herman Daly has been the world's leading proponent of a steady-state economy. Throughout his career, Daly has published several books and articles on the subject. He has also helped founding a center for the advancement of the steady-state economy. He has received several prizes and awards in recognition of his work.\n\nAccording to two independent comparative studies of American Daly's steady-state economics versus the later, competing school of degrowth from continental Europe, no differences of analytical substance exist between the two schools; only, Daly's bureaucratic — or even technocratic — top-down management of the economy fares badly with the more radical grassroots appeal of degrowth, as championed by French political scientist Serge Latouche (see below). \nThe premise underlying Daly's concept of a steady-state economy is that the economy is an open subsystem of a finite and non-growing ecosystem (earth's natural environment). The economy is maintained by importing low-entropy matter-energy (resources) from nature; these resources are put through the economy, being transformed and manufactured into goods along the way; eventually, the throughput of matter-energy is exported to the environment as high-entropy waste and pollution. Recycling of material resources is possible, but only by using up some energy resources as well as an additional amount of other material resources; and energy resources, in turn, cannot be recycled at all, but are dissipated as waste heat. Out of necessity, then, any subsystem of a fixed nongrowing system must itself at some point also become nongrowing.\n\nDaly argues that nature has provided basically two sources of wealth at man's disposal, namely a stock of terrestrial mineral resources and a flow of solar energy. An 'asymmetry' between these two sources of wealth exist in that we may — within some practical limits — extract the mineral stock at a rate of our own choosing (that is, rapidly), whereas the flow of solar energy is reaching earth at a rate beyond human control. Since the Sun will continue to shine on earth at a fixed rate for billions of years to come, it is the terrestrial mineral stock — and not the Sun — that constitutes the crucial scarcity factor regarding man's economic future.\nDaly points out that today's global ecological problems are rooted in man's historical record: Until the Industrial Revolution that took place in Britain in the second half of the 18th century, man lived within the limits imposed by what Daly terms a 'solar-income budget': The Palaeolithic tribes of hunter-gatherers and the later agricultural societies of the Neolithic and onwards subsisted primarily — though not exclusively — on earth's biosphere, powered by an ample supply of renewable energy, received from the Sun. The Industrial Revolution changed this situation completely, as man began extracting the terrestrial mineral stock at a rapidly increasing rate. The original solar-income budget was thereby broken and supplemented by the new, but much scarcer source of wealth. Mankind still lives in the after-effect of this revolution.\n\nDaly cautions that more than two hundred years of worldwide industrialisation is now confronting mankind with a range of problems pertaining to the future existence and survival of our species:\n\nFollowing the work of Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, Daly argues that the laws of thermodynamics restrict all human technologies and apply to all economic systems:\n\nThis view on the role of technology in the economy was later termed 'entropy pessimism' (see below).\n\nIn Daly's view, mainstream economists tend to regard natural resource scarcity as only a relative phenomenon, while human needs and wants are granted absolute status: It is believed that the price mechanism and technological development (however defined) is capable of overcoming any scarcity ever to be faced on earth; it is also believed that all human wants could and should be treated alike as absolutes, from the most basic necessities of life to the extravagant and insatiable craving for luxuries. Daly terms this belief 'growthmania', which he finds pervasive in modern society. In opposition to the dogma of growthmania, Daly submits that \"... there \"is\" such a thing as absolute scarcity, and there \"is\" such a thing as purely relative and trivial wants\". Once it is recognised that scarcity is imposed by nature in an absolute form by the laws of thermodynamics and the finitude of earth; and that some human wants are only relative and not worthy of satisfying; then we are all well on the way to the paradigm of a steady-state economy, Daly concludes.\n\nConsequently, Daly recommends that a system of permanent government restrictions on the economy is established as soon as possible, a steady-state economy. Whereas the classical economists believed that the final stationary state would settle by itself as the rate of profit fell and capital accumulation came to an end (see above), Daly wants to create the steady-state politically by establishing three institutions of the state as a superstructure on top of the present market economy:\n\n\nThe purpose of these three institutions is to stop and prevent further growth by combining what Daly calls \"a nice reconciliation of efficiency and equity\" and providing \"the ecologically necessary macrocontrol of growth with the least sacrifice in terms of microlevel freedom and variability.\"\n\nAmong the generation of his teachers, Daly ranks Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen and Kenneth E. Boulding as the two economists he has learned the most from. However, both Georgescu-Roegen and Boulding have assessed that a steady-state economy may serve only as a temporary societal arrangement for mankind when facing the long-term issue of global mineral resource exhaustion: Even with a constant stock of people and capital, and a minimised (yet constant) flow of resources put through the world economy, earth's mineral stock will still be exhausted, although at a slower rate than is presently the situation (see below). \n\nResponding specifically to the criticism levelled at him by Georgescu-Roegen, Daly concedes that a steady-state economy will serve only to postpone, and not to prevent, the inevitable mineral resource exhaustion: \"A steady-state economy cannot last forever, but neither can a growing economy, nor a declining economy\". A frank and committed Protestant, Daly further argues that...\n\nLater, several other economists in the field have agreed that not even a steady-state economy can last forever on earth. \n\nSeveral conceptual and ideological disagreements presently exist concerning the steady-state economy in particular and the dilemma of growth in general. The following issues are considered below: The role of technology; resource decoupling and the rebound effect; a declining-state economy; the possibility of having capitalism without growth; and the possibility of pushing some of the terrestrial limits into outer space. Herman Daly's approach to these issues are presented throughout the text.\n\nTechnology is usually defined as the application of scientific method in the production of goods or in other social achievements. Historically, technology has mostly been developed and implemented in order to improve labour productivity and increase living standards. In economics, disagreement presently exists regarding \nthe role of technology when considering its dependency on natural resources:\n\n\nFrom the ecological point of view, it has been suggested that the disagreement boils down to a matter of teaching some elementary physics to the uninitiated neoclassical economists and other technological optimists. From the neoclassical point of view, leading growth theorist and Nobel Prize laureate Robert Solow has defended his much criticised position by replying in 1997 that 'elementary physics' has not by itself prevented growth in the industrialized countries so far.\n\nResource decoupling occurs when economic activity becomes less intensive ecologically: A declining input of natural resources is needed to produce one unit of output on average, measured by the ratio of total natural resource consumption to gross domestic product (GDP). \"Relative\" resource decoupling occurs when natural resource consumption declines on a \"ceteris paribus\" assumption — that is, all other things being equal. \"Absolute\" resource decoupling occurs when natural resource consumption declines, even while GDP is growing.\nIn the history of economic thought, William Stanley Jevons was the first economist of some standing to analyse the occurrence of resource decoupling, although he did not use this term. In his 1865 book on \"The Coal Question\", Jevons argued that an increase in energy efficiency would by itself lead to \"more\", not less, consumption of energy: Due to the income effect of the lowered energy expenditures, people would be rendered better off and demand even more energy, thereby outweighing the initial gain in efficiency. This mechanism is known today as the Jevons paradox or the rebound effect. Jevons's analysis of this seeming paradox formed part of his general concern that Britain's industrial supremacy in the 19th century would soon be set back by the inevitable exhaustion of the country's coal mines, whereupon the geopolitical balance of power would tip in favour of countries abroad possessing more abundant mines. \n\nIn 2009, two separate studies were published that — among other things — addressed the issues of resource decoupling and the rebound effect: German scientist and politician Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker published \"Factor Five: Transforming the Global Economy through 80% Improvements in Resource Productivity\", co-authored with a team of researchers from The Natural Edge Project. British ecological economist Tim Jackson published \"Prosperity Without Growth\", drawing extensively from an earlier report authored by him for the UK Sustainable Development Commission. Consider each in turn:\n\nHerman Daly has argued that the best way to increase natural resource efficiency (decouple) and to prevent the occurrence of any rebound effects is to impose quantitative restrictions on resource use by establishing a cap and trade system of quotas, managed by a government agency. Daly believes this system features a unique triple advantage:\n\n\nFor all its merits, Daly himself points to the existence of physical, technological and practical limitations to how much efficiency and recycling can be achieved by this proposed system. The idea of absolute decoupling ridding the economy as a whole of any dependence on natural resources is ridiculed polemically by Daly as 'angelizing GDP': It would work only if we ascended to become angels ourselves.\n\nA declining-state economy is an economy made up of a declining stock of physical wealth (capital) or a declining population size, or both. A declining-state economy is not to be confused with a recession: Whereas a declining-state economy is established as the result of deliberate political action, a recession is the unexpected and unwelcome failure of a growing or a steady economy.\n\nProponents of a declining-state economy generally believe that a steady-state economy is not far-reaching enough for the future of mankind. Some proponents may even reject modern civilization as such, either partly or completely, whereby the concept of a declining-state economy begins bordering on the ideology of anarcho-primitivism, on radical ecological doomsaying or on some variants of survivalism.\n<br><br>\n\nRomanian American economist Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen was the teacher and mentor of Herman Daly and is presently considered the main intellectual figure influencing the degrowth movement that formed in France and Italy in the early 2000s. In his \nparadigmatic magnum opus on \"The Entropy Law and the Economic Process\", Georgescu-Roegen argues that the carrying capacity of earth — that is, earth's capacity to sustain human populations and consumption levels — is bound to decrease sometime in the future as earth's finite stock of mineral resources is presently being extracted and put to use; and consequently, that the world economy as a whole is heading towards an inevitable future collapse. In effect, Georgescu-Roegen points out that the arguments advanced by Herman Daly in support of his steady-state economy apply with even greater force in support of a declining-state economy: When the overall purpose is to ration and stretch mineral resource use for as long time into the future as possible, zero economic growth is more desirable than growth is, true; but negative growth is better still! Instead of Daly's steady-state economics, Georgescu-Roegen proposed his own so-called 'minimal bioeconomic program', featuring restrictions even more severe than those propounded by his former student Daly (see above). \n\nAmerican political advisor Jeremy Rifkin, French champion of the degrowth movement Serge Latouche and Austrian degrowth theorist Christian Kerschner — who all take their cue from Georgescu-Roegen's work — have argued in favour of declining-state strategies. Consider each in turn:\n\n\nHerman Daly on his part is not opposed to the concept of a declining-state economy; but he does point out that the steady-state economy should serve as a preliminary first step on a declining path, once the optimal levels of population and capital have been properly defined. However, this first step is an important one:\n\nDaly concedes that it is 'difficult, probably impossible' to define such optimum levels; even more, in his final analysis Daly agrees with his teacher and mentor Georgescu-Roegen that no defined optimum will be able to last forever (see above).\n\nSeveral radical critics of capitalism have questioned the possibility of ever imposing a steady-state or a declining-state (degrowth) system as a superstructure on top of capitalism. Taken together, these critics point to the following growth dynamics inherent in capitalism:\n— In short: There is no end to the systemic and ecologically harmful growth dynamics in modern capitalism, radical critics assert.\n\nFully aware of the massive growth dynamics of capitalism, Herman Daly on his part poses the rhetorical question whether his concept of a steady-state economy is essentially capitalistic or socialistic. He provides the following answer (written in 1980):\n\nDaly concludes by inviting all (most) people — both liberal supporters of and radical critics of capitalism — to join him in his effort to develop a steady-state economy.\n\nEver since the beginning of the modern Space Age in the 1950s, space advocates have developed plans for colonising space in order to counter human overpopulation and mitigate ecological pressures on earth (if not for other reasons).\nIn the 1970s, physicist and space activist Gerard K. O'Neill developed a large plan to build human settlements in outer space to solve the problems of overpopulation and limits to growth on earth without recourse to political repression. According to O'Neill's vision, mankind could — and indeed \"should\" — expand on this man-made frontier to many times the current world population and generate large amounts of new wealth in space. Herman Daly countered O'Neill's vision by arguing that a space colony would become subject to much harsher limits to growth — and hence, would have to be secured and managed with much more care and discipline — than a steady-state economy on large and resilient earth. Although the number of individual colonies supposedly could be increased without end, living conditions in any one particular colony would become very restricted nonetheless. Therefore, Daly concluded: \"The alleged impossibility of a steady-state on earth provides a poor intellectual launching pad for space colonies.\"\n\nBy the 2010s, O'Neill's old vision of space colonisation has long since been turned upside down in many places: Instead of dispatching colonists from earth to live in remote space settlements, some ecology-minded space advocates conjecture that resources could be mined from asteroids in space and transported back to earth for use here. This new vision has the same double advantage of (partly) mitigating ecological pressures on earth's limited mineral reserves while also boosting exploration and colonisation of space. The building up of industrial infrastructure in space would be required for the purpose, as well as the establishment of a complete supply chain up to the level of self-sufficiency and then beyond, eventually developing into a permanent extraterrestrial source of wealth to provide an adequate return on investment for stakeholders. In the future, such an 'exo-economy' (off-planet economy) could possibly even serve as the first step towards mankind's cosmic ascension to a 'Type II' civilisation on the hypothetical Kardashev scale, in case such an ascension will ever be accomplished. \nHowever, it is yet uncertain whether an off-planet economy of the type specified will develop in due time to match both the volume and the output mix needed to fully replace earth's dwindling mineral reserves. Sceptics like Herman Daly and others point to exorbitant earth-to-orbit launch costs of any space mission, inaccurate identification of target asteroids suitable for mining, and remote \"in situ\" ore extraction difficulties as obvious barriers to success: Investing a lot of terrestrial resources in order to recover only a few resources from space in return is not worthwhile in any case, regardless of the scarcities, technologies and other mission parameters involved in the venture. In addition, even if an off-planet economy could somehow be established at some future point, one long-term predicament would then loom large regarding the continuous mining and transportation of massive volumes of materials from space back to earth: How to keep up that volume flowing on a steady and permanent basis in the face of the astronomically long distances and time scales ever present in space. In the worst of cases, all of these obstacles could forever prevent any substantial pushing of limits into outer space — and then limits to growth on earth will remain the only limits of concern throughout mankind's entire span of existence. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54618427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54618427", "title": "Tellurocracy", "text": "Tellurocracy\n\nTellurocracy (from the Latin \"tellus\" \"land\" and the Greek κράτος \"power\") is a type of civilization or state system that is clearly associated with the development of land territories and consistent penetration into inland territories. Tellurocratic states have a certain territory and the state-forming ethnic majority living on it, around which further expansion takes place. The opposite of tellurocracy is thalassocracy (maritime empires), although in the pure type of a particular state is rarely observed. Usually there is a combination of tellurocratic characteristics with thalassocratic. In political geography, geopolitics and geo-economics, the term is used to explain the power of a country through its control over land. For example, prior to their merger, the Sultanate of Muscat was thalassocratic, but the Imamate of Oman was landlocked and purely tellurocratic. In addition, it could be said that most or all landlocked states are tellurocracies.\n\nTellurocracies are generally not purely tellurocratic. In particular, most large tellurocracies have coastlines and not just inland territories, unlike thassalocracies, which historically would generally only have coastlines, and not inland territories. This makes it difficult to define what exactly a tellurocracy is. \n\nFor example, the Mongols attempted to conquer Japan on multiple occasions. As well, the Russian Empire conquered Russian America (now Alaska) after it reached a point where it could no longer expand eastward by land. Likewise, the United States acquired Alaska and incorporated many islands and the Panama Canal Zone after it could no longer expand westward. It is also worth noting that the largely tellurocratic, continental Australia, founded as a group of thalassocratic colonies, now holds its own island territories outside of its mainland, such as Christmas Island.\n\nMany empires of antiquity are noted for being more tellurocratic than their rivals, such as the early Roman Republic in opposition to its rival Carthaginian Empire, which later as the Roman and Byzantine Empires became a rather thalassocratic, yet still quite tellurocratic rival to the quite purely tellurocratic Parthian and Sasanian Empires.\n\nIn Alexander Dugin's theory of tellurocracy, the following civilizational characteristics are traditionally attributed: a sedentary lifestyle (not excluding migratory colonization), conservatism, the permanence of legal norms, the presence of a powerful bureaucratic apparatus and central authority, strong infantry, but a weak fleet. Traditionally, tellurocracy is attributed to the Eurasian states (Qing Empire, Mongol Empire), Mughal Empire, etc. although some, such as the early United States and the Brazilian Empire, have come into being elsewhere. In practice, all these qualities are not always present. Moreover, certain peoples and states evolve over time in one direction or another. Russia before the Russian Empire was a typical tellurocratic state. After Emperor Peter I, there was a gradual increase in the share of thalassocratic characteristics of the Russian Empire, and then the USSR, which turned into one of the largest naval powers. The British Empire, on the contrary, was for a long time a small, largely thalassocratic state outside of its home islands, but during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries it increased its tellurocratic characteristics (expansion into the Australian Outback and inland Africa, etc.).\n\nThe term Tellurocracy itself was proposed by the Russian National Bolshevist and Eurasianist publicist Alexander Dugin, based on the works of the famous Third Reich and West German lawyer and theorist of geopolitics Carl Schmitt. Dugin associates Tellurocracy with Eurasianism, in contrast a perceived association of thalassocracy with Atlanticism.\n\n"}
{"id": "24081875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24081875", "title": "The Internationals Network for Public Schools", "text": "The Internationals Network for Public Schools\n\nInternationals Network for Public Schools is an educational nonprofit supporting International high schools and academies, serving newly arrived immigrants who are English language learners (ELLs), in New York, California, Kentucky, Maryland, Virginia, and Washington, DC. Internationals Network also partners with other schools and districts across the country.\n\nThe mission of Internationals Network is to provide quality education for recently arrived immigrants by growing and sustaining a strong national network of innovative International High Schools, while broadening our impact by sharing proven best practices and influencing policy for English learners on a national scale.\n\nInternationals Network’s history of academic success began in 1985 with the founding of the first high school on the campus of LaGuardia Community College, a collaborative effort between the New York City Department of Education and the City University of New York. In response to the many educational challenges faced by English language learners within district schools, The International High School at LaGuardia was designed specifically to provide quality education for these students. During the next nine years, two additional International High Schools were opened in Brooklyn and Manhattan. To facilitate interschool collaboration and learning, these schools joined together in 1995 to form the International Schools Partnership. In 2001, a fourth school was established in the Bronx. When the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation initiated educational reform through small school development for those students most underserved, they approached the Partnership to recreate its successful model to promote high school age English language learner achievement across the country.\nBorn from the International Schools Partnership, Internationals Network for Public Schools was formalized as a 501(c)3 nonprofit in 2004 to support existing schools and create additional International High Schools nationwide. As an intermediary working closely with local education departments and community based organizations, Internationals now supports 19 International High Schools and Small Learning Communities in New York City, California’s Bay Area, Alexandria,Virginia, and Washington, DC.\n\nBased on Internationals core work – almost 30 years of staff and practitioner experience in developing, refining and adapting the Internationals’ Approach in its schools, Internationals now collaborates nationally with districts, schools and school development partners to bring its professional development services to support educators who teach English language learners across the nation. Additionally, Internationals engages with state and local departments of education to increase policy maker awareness of the regulatory issues that both inhibit and promote best practices in ELL education and immigrant family supports.\n\nAt International high schools, a badge of prestige replaces the “stigma” of immigrant status for students, families, and faculty. The Internationals Approach holds that near native fluency in English and proficiency in a second language are valuable resources when it comes to achieving professional and social success in the United States and the global economy and participating fully in democratic society. In International high schools and academies, every teacher is considered a language teacher as well as a teacher of academic content and skills. The educational process takes place in a heterogeneous, learner-centered, collaborative, and activity-based environment. Students are organized in diverse clusters that often work with the same team of teachers over 1–2 years. Classes are mixed according to age, grade, academic ability, prior schooling, native language, and linguistic proficiency. They are interdisciplinary and rigorous, and the curriculum includes literature, social studies, math, science, the arts, technology, and physical education.\n\nThe Internationals’ pedagogical approach to educating English language learners is based upon 5 Core Principles:\n\nThe Internationals Approach to teaching has been studied by researchers at Stanford University School Redesign Network and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. The Stanford study, led by Linda Darling-Hammond and her team of researchers, found \"the Internationals Network for Public Schools (Internationals) is an important model that originated in New York City and has shown itself to be both successful and adaptable\" in California. Michelle Fine and a team of researchers from the Graduate Center of the City University of New York found that students at the three oldest International schools outperformed both English Language Learners and Native English Speakers (in New York City) in graduation rates and college going rates. The International schools also maintained lower drop out rates than ELL students and English only students.\n\nIn 2009 the Migration Policy Institute (MPI) announced the four winners of its inaugural E Pluribus Unum national awards for exceptional immigrant integration initiatives. Internationals Network for Public Schools was named for its work teaching late-entry immigrant students.\n\nToday the network serves approximately 6,000 students annually from 90 countries. Over 90% of students receive free or reduced price lunch, and 86 percent of students come from low-income families. High percentages of students have had interrupted formal education due to political, social, or economic factors in their native countries. 70 percent of students have been separated from one or both parents during their family's immigration to the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5335983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5335983", "title": "Three-anti and Five-anti Campaigns", "text": "Three-anti and Five-anti Campaigns\n\nThe Three-anti Campaign (1951) and Five-anti Campaign (1952) () were reform movements originally issued by Mao Zedong a few years after the founding of the People's Republic of China in an effort to rid Chinese cities of corruption and enemies of the state. The result turned into a series of campaigns that consolidated Mao's power base by targeting political opponents and capitalists, especially wealthy capitalists.\n\nThe Three-anti Campaign was launched in Manchuria at the end of 1951. It was aimed at members within the Communist Party of China, former Kuomintang members and bureaucratic officials who were not party members.\n\nThe 3 antis imposed were:\n\nThe Five-anti campaign was launched in January 1952. It was designed to target the capitalist class. The Communist party set a very vague guideline of who could be charged, and it became an all out war against the bourgeoisie in China. Deng Xiaoping warned the people \"not to be corrupted by capitalist thinking\".\n\nThe 5 antis imposed were:\n\nAn estimated 20,000 cadres and 6,000 trained workers began spying on the business affairs of fellow citizens. The media encouraged compliance with the government policies. Up to 15,000 trained propagandists were working in Shanghai by late 1951. By February 1952, parades of anti-Capitalist activists went door-to-door to visit business leaders. It created immense psychological pressure. Shanghai wards were set up to receive criticism letters from any employees. As many as 18,000 letters came in the first week of February 1952, and 210,000 came in by the end of the first month. Cadres of party members would join in on the attack. Some big companies would voluntarily make 1,000 confessions a day to try to protect themselves from the government. A prime example was the Dahua copper company owner who originally over-confessed by claiming to have illegally obtained 50 million yuan. His employees continued to criticize the owner for greater crime until he reconfessed to having obtained 2 billion yuan.\n\nThe victims of the antis campaigns were mostly terrified and humiliated, some were killed, and others were sent to labor camps around China. Mao evaluated the situation, saying that \"We must probably execute 10,000 to several tens of thousands of embezzlers nationwide before we can solve the problem.\" The Three-Antis Campaign came with harsher punishments, some involving torture , and all found guilty of their confessed or unconfessed crimes were made to pay fines to the government. There were hundreds of thousands of suicides (though it is debatable whether many of these were voluntary) that were a direct result of these campaigns.\n\nEventually the Communist Party revealed that it would no longer protect private business, and that Chinese capitalists would receive treatment no better than foreign. The Korean War initially provided opportunities in Northern China, giving rise to a new class of capitalists, many of whom would be prosecuted under the Marxist policies of the Communist Party. Many of these people eventually borrowed money from the government to pay off government fines, creating a complex financial pattern. A series of anti campaigns were launched by the Chinese government in the following years.\n\n"}
{"id": "6795845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6795845", "title": "Torch Commando", "text": "Torch Commando\n\nThe Torch Commando was born out of the work of the Springbok Legion, a South African organisation of World War II veterans, founded in 1941 during the Second World War, and the War Veterans Action Committee established with the involvement of Springbok Legionnaires to appeal to a broader base of ex-servicemen.\n\nIt was underwritten by Harry Oppenheimer, through an opaque trust fund.\n\nThe Springbok Legion was initially formed by members of the 9th Recce Battalion of the South African Tank Corps, the Soldiers Interests Committee formed by members of the First South African Brigade in Addis Ababa, and the Union of Soldiers formed by the same brigade in Egypt.\n\nThe aims and objectives of the Springbok Legion were enunciated in its 'Soldiers Manifesto'. The Springbok Legion was open to all servicemen regardless of race or gender and was avowedly anti-fascist and anti-racist. Amongst its leading members were servicemen such as Joe Slovo, Lionel Bernstein, Wolfie Kodesh, Jack Hodgson and Fred Carneson who all later joined the African National Congress and its military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe under the command of Nelson Mandela. Others such as Harry Schwarz, a later well-known anti-apartheid political leader, lawyer and ambassador to the United States during the government of national unity was one of the organisation's founders. Another member was General Kennie van der Spuy, one of the founding members of the South African Air Force who fought in both World War I and World War II and was captured and imprisoned in the Kremlin by the Russians after fighting alongside the White Russian forces against the communists and held until 1920.\n\nThe Torch Commando was founded in 1951 during the Coloured vote constitutional crisis, in protest against the South African government's plan to remove coloureds from the voters roll in the Cape. At a time when the Springbok Legion's numbers were diminishing, the Torch Commando strategy gave a new lease of life to the aims and objectives of the Springbok Legion, perceived as being too left wing by some, and gave a home to whites in other liberal formations including liberals in the United Party, who identified with black grievances.\n\nThe wartime RAF fighter ace Group Captain Adolph Malan became the president of the 'Torch Commando'. The commando's main activities were torchlight marches, from which they took their name. The largest march attracted 75,000 protesters.\n\nThe Torch Commando existed for more than five years, and at its height claimed to have had 250,000 members. The government was alarmed by the number of judges, public servants and military officers joining the organisation, and a new law was passed to ban anyone in public service or the military from joining. Subsequently the National Party did everything to purge the memory of the Springbok Legion, Torch Commando and men such as 'Sailor' Malan, who had appeal with white Afrikaner youth.\n"}
{"id": "300977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300977", "title": "Twin Oaks Community, Virginia", "text": "Twin Oaks Community, Virginia\n\nTwin Oaks Community is an ecovillage and intentional community of about one hundred people living on in Louisa County, Virginia. It is a member of the Federation of Egalitarian Communities. Founded in 1967, it is one of the longest-enduring and largest secular intentional communities in North America. The community's basic values are cooperation, egalitarianism, non-violence, sustainability, and income sharing. About 100 adults and 17 children live in the community.\n\nThe community was founded on a tobacco farm in 1967 by a group of eight individuals with no farming experience that included Kat Kinkade, who wrote two books about the community. The community's initial inspiration was B. F. Skinner's novel \"Walden Two,\" which describes a fictional behaviorist utopia. However, Skinner's vision quickly faded from prominence at Twin Oaks, as behaviorist principles were abandoned in favor of egalitarian principles. The community struggled greatly during its first few years, as member turnover was high and the community members didn't earn much income. According to Kinkade, the community avoided the problems stereotypically associated with communes (particularly laziness, freeloading, and excessive lack of structure) by adopting a structured, yet flexible, labor system.\nModified versions of the community's initial organizational structure and labor credit system survive to this day. As in Skinner's novel, the original labor credit system utilized \"variable\" credit hours. Certain jobs were worth more credit hours than others in order to make each job desirable. What the community found once the population reached about 40 is that there was neither universally desirable work, nor undesirable work and the variable credit hour system created distortions in which work was getting done. The modified version of this plan in place today uses \"standardized\" credits; each job in the community is valued the same in terms of credit hours.\n\nTwin Oaks has approximately 100 members. People interested in joining Twin Oaks must attend a scheduled three-week visitor period. During this period, visitors tour the community and attend orientations on various aspects of membership: Unlike most co-housing situations, there is no cost to join the community, nor any rent or ongoing costs associated with living there. Basic necessities—housing, clothing, food, health care—are all provided to members in return for their 42 weekly hours of work. Since 2011, Twin Oaks has consistently had a waiting list, so visitors who are accepted for membership need to wait typically three to nine months before they can join. Before a new member can join, while the community is at its population capacity, a current member needs to drop membership. Historically, Twin Oaks has expanded its housing when it has had a waiting list for a prolonged period by building new residences and expanding the stock of bedrooms available.\n\nA member of Twin Oaks works around 42 hours a week. Some labor is directed toward generating income, and the rest consists of domestic work like gardening/food production, cooking, bike repair, building maintenance, cleaning, and child care. Most Twin Oakers perform a wide variety of tasks each week instead of spending all of their time in one labor area. Members can also choose to work outside of Twin Oaks. The income from this labor may go to the community, although some portion of it can go into a member's \"vacation earnings\". Excess labor done in a week accumulates as vacation time.\n\nThough live television viewing is prohibited, Twin Oaks' members have access to the Internet as well as to public computers. Members can also watch movies and tapes of TV programs. People in the community often gather for other recreational activities such as dancing, meditating, discussing literature, staging musicals, and playing board games.\n\nTwin Oaks members are religiously diverse. The membership includes Christians, Atheists, Pagans, Buddhists, and others. The community hosts Pagan handfastings, Equinox parties, and Thanksgiving dinners, and it celebrates June 16, the anniversary of its founding.\n\nResidents live in dormitory-style living quarters spread out across the community. Each member has a private bedroom, but shares public spaces.\n\nMember turnover is no longer as high as it was in the community's early years, and many former Twin Oakers live in nearby Charlottesville and Louisa to maintain ties to the community.\n\nTwin Oaks' 42-hour work week is divided between domestic and income-producing labor. Twin Oaks operates several community-owned businesses, including Twin Oaks Tofu, Twin Oaks Hammocks, and Twin Oaks Book Indexing. Additionally, members working in the Twin Oaks Seed Farm grow seeds for Southern Exposure Seed Exchange. From these sources, Twin Oaks generates around $600,000 per year. This money pays for community upkeep and goods that cannot be produced on site, and each member receives a monthly stipend for personal use (i.e., to purchase items that the community does not provide). In news segments, Twin Oakers often attribute the longevity of the community to its engagement in capitalism through its tofu and hammocks businesses.\nTwin Oaks has helped establish three sister communities: Acorn Community, about from Twin Oaks, Living energy farm, also in Louisa County, Virginia; and East Wind Community in south central Missouri.\n\nTwin Oaks also hosts annual intentional community gatherings cosponsored by the Fellowship for Intentional Community. The Communities Conference, and the Women's Gathering, both of which take place every August.\n\nThe history of Twin Oaks Community is detailed extensively in two books by Kathleen (Kat) Kinkade, one of the co-founders of the community. The first, \"A Walden Two Experiment\", covers the first five years of the community. The second, \"Is it Utopia Yet?\", covers the next 20 years. Another book from the 1980s, \"Living the Dream\", by Ingrid Komar (the mother of a member at the time the book was written), also discusses Twin Oaks' history. About half a dozen dissertations and a dozen master's theses have been written about the community, as well. In 1998, the \"Washington Post Magazine\" did a cover story on Twin Oaks.\n\nTwin Oaks seeks to be a model of sustainability. The average Twin Oaks member consumes fewer resources than the average American due to the community's practices of resource sharing and self-sufficiency. Members hold all resources in common except for the personal items they keep in their bedrooms. For instance, members share housing, a fleet of 17 vehicles, and a large \"clothing library\". Twin Oaks members consume 70% less gasoline, 80% less electricity, and 76% less natural gas per capita than do their neighbors.\n\nThe community itself acknowledges that it has yet to create the perfect society; it even provides a guidebook entitled \"Not Utopia Yet\" to visitors. For instance, there is little privacy at Twin Oaks. Also, those who choose to live at Twin Oaks for several years—including founder Kinkade—sometimes feel \"trapped\" there. This is because members have little opportunity to build up equity or savings.\n\nThe BBC Utopia programme (7/17) included criticisms of no pensions, complex interpersonal relationships, limited privacy individual choice, and mentioned that one fifth of residents leave every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "1605832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1605832", "title": "Womanhouse", "text": "Womanhouse\n\nWomanhouse (January 30 – February 28, 1972) was a feminist art installation and performance space organized by Judy Chicago and Miriam Schapiro, co-founders of the California Institute of the Arts (CalArts) Feminist Art Program. Chicago, Schapiro, their students and women artists from the local community, including Faith Wilding, participated. Chicago and Schapiro encouraged their students to use consciousness-raising techniques to generate the content of the exhibition.\n\nOnly women were allowed to view the exhibition on its first day, after which the exhibition was open to all viewers. During the exhibition's duration, it received approximately 10,000 visitors.\n\nThe Feminist Art Program began at the California Institute of the Arts in 1971 after an experimental year at Fresno State College under the name Women's Art Program. The students in the program were admitted as a group when Chicago and Schapiro were hired at Cal Arts after Chicago found that the Fresno State College Art department was reluctant to embrace her vision of a new kind of female centered art. It was their intention to teach without the use of authoritarian rules or a unilateral flow of power from teacher to student.\n\nThe Feminist Art Program, was slated to occupy a new building, but found itself without adequate space at the start of the school year in 1971. The lack of appropriate studio space paved the way for a collaborative group project set to highlight the ideological and symbolic conflation of women and houses. The end result of this project was the \"Womanhouse\" installation, built by the students in an abandoned Victorian house just off of the CalArts campus.\n\nThe program utilized a method of teaching that relied on group cooperation. Students would sit in a circle, and share their thoughts on a selected topic of discussion. The circular teaching method was intended to provide a \"nourishing environment for growth\" and to promote a \"circular, more womb-like\" atmosphere. The goal of these discussions was for each woman to reach a higher level of self-perception, to validate their experiences, as well as the \"search for subject matter\" to incorporate into artwork and to address their individual aesthetic needs. However, many students fostered resentments towards Chicago and Schapiro, claiming they were suffering from their own power trips. Chicago insisted her students feelings were the result of their own internalized sexism and unconscious manifestations of their difficulties dealing with female authority figures.\n\nThe project's goals, as professed by Schapiro and Chicago, were to help students overcome some problems of being a woman. These included \"a general lack of assertiveness or ambition\", an \"unwillingness to push themselves beyond their limits”, “lack of familiarity with tools and artmaking processes”, and an “inability to see themselves as working people\". It was thought that by teaching the women to use power tools and proper building techniques, they would gain confidence and subsequently \"restructure their personalities\" to be consistent with their artistic goals. It was Schapiro and Chicago's belief that \"society fails women by not demanding excellence from them.\"\n\nThese techniques were to result in an \"exclusively female environment\" that included a greater community of female artists. The goal of this community was to expose the students to \"established\" female artists not limited to Schapiro and Chicago.\n\nPaula Harper, an art historian for the California Institute of Arts Feminist Art Program, is credited for suggesting the idea for \"Womanhouse\". Schapiro supervised \"Womanhouse\"'s dramatic works, while Chicago focused on other media. Their intention was to transform a domestic environment into one that fully expressed the experiences of women.\n\n\"Womanhouse began in an old deserted mansion on a residential street in Hollywood and became an environment in which: “The age-old female activity of homemaking was taken to fantasy proportions. Womanhouse became the repository of the daydreams women have as they wash, bake, cook, sew, clean and iron their lives away.\" Before creating the art environments and pieces, the students had to do extensive reconstruction on the house which had been empty for many years. They have to fix broken windows and furnitures.\n\nThe group broke into teams in order to find a suitable location for their \"dreams and fantasies\".\nThey found a 17-room, 75-year-old dilapidated mansion at 533 N. Mariposa Ave. in a rundown section of Hollywood. Members of the group knocked on doors to find the owner of the house, who one neighbor remarked would \"certainly not be interested in the project\".\n\nAfter a visit to the Hall of Records, they found the owner to be Amanda Psalter. The group described their intentions for the house in a letter to the Psalter Family. In response, the house was granted through a special lease agreement for the 3-month duration of the project. After this time, it would be demolished. Construction spanned from November 1971 to January 1972.\n\nIn order to renovate the house, the women tackled tasks included cleaning, painting, sanding scraping and wallpapering walls, replacing windows, sanding floors, and installing lights. New walls were built for practical and aesthetic reasons and women learned wallpapering techniques to refurbish one of the rooms. Eventually a crew was needed to paint the exterior of the house, install locks and advise the women on basic electrical wiring.\n\nThe women struggled as they began renovating the mansion during the winter, as the building did not have hot water, heat, or plumbing. Renovations included replacing 25 windows and replacing banisters that had been pulled out by vandals. They worked 8 hour days in a “manner they were unaccustomed to”, soon coming to resent the intense, “impossible” demands, even coming to see their administrators as “monsters” and complaining that they would fail.“ To cope with the frustration of learning new techniques while meeting stringent deadlines, the group held meetings to deal with any problems that arouse and sessions to raise group consciousness. Some former students now see this tension as a result of Chicago's authoritarian presence, feeling that she imposed her own goals on the group.\n\nHere are some perspectives from participators when they recall the struggles of \"Womanhouse\" after 25 years later.\n\nCamille Grey : “Put 30 women together and see what happens. A nightmare.”\n\nRobin Mitchell: \" It was simultaneously one of the best and worst experiences of my life.”\n\nMira Schor: \" I left the Program after one year, because of my disagreements, and because I wanted to experience the school outside the confines of the Program. I have avoid group feminism since then.\n\nNancy Youdelman:\" Looking back 25 years later, I have mixed feeling about the Feminist Art Program – We had something really incredible and unique and somehow we could not get beyond personalities and create a lasting support system\n\nChicago and Schapiro invited other local artists Sherry Brody, Carol Edison Mitchell and Wanda Westcoast to participate and to hang their work alongside that of the other women.\n\nAmong the artists and CalArts students that collaborated were:\n\nIn the journal \"Signs\", Paula Harper says, \"the young students did not have much personal experience of traditional marriage and homemaking roles of women. Nonetheless, the ideas of all were influenced by the general aim of feminists in the late 1960s to revise women's position in society by bringing attention to their oppression, and this ideology clearly shared by the many individuals involved gave Womanhouse its impact.\"\n\nWorking collaboratively on \"Womanhouse\", the students gained new skills while developing a deeper understanding of human and personal experiences. The students also provided tours of the exhibition, which gave them the opportunity to articulate their artwork while maintaining their personal vision when faced with criticism. Even though the exhibition provided the students with great satisfaction and team effort some of the artists didn’t feel any personal accomplishment, and were looking forward to going back to work on their individual projects.\n\nThe mansion contained a variety feminist installations, sculptures, performances and other forms of art. The artists creating \"Womanhouse\" did so, centralizing a white, cisgender, heterosexual and middle-class experience of womanhood in the early seventies. By transforming a \"woman's space\" (such as a kitchen) into a radical feminist art truly made a statement. Here they spoke out about women issues, as well as criticizing the patriarchy. This helped women artists and architects gain recognition and acknowledgement that their work could be seen on the same level as men. Using a mansion as their chosen setting furthered their statement.\n\nNurturant Kitchen - \"by Susan Frazier, Vicki Hodgetts, Robin Weltsch\".\nPresent in the kitchen are plates of food under a line of light bulbs, resembling it to a factory worker's assembly line. This highlights the dehumanizing aspects of a woman's role as nurturer.\nDining Room - \"by Beth Bachenheimer, Sherry Brody, Karen LeCocq, Robin Mitchell, Miriam Schapiro, Faith Wilding.\"\nThe \"Dining Room\" features a crown molding of lifelike painted fruit. A mural, based on a 19th-century still life by Anna Peale, is displayed on a wall behind the dining room table. The table itself features a bread dough sculpture, turkey, ham, pecan pie, vinyl salad bowl, vinyl wine glasses and a wine bottle. A chandelier hangs above the table. Below the table, a stenciled-rug is painted directly onto the floor.\n\"Dining Room\" is the most collaborative project in \"Womanhouse\", utilizing the efforts of seven women to complete. It is meant to express a generous, bountiful and romantic aura.\n\nBridal Staircase - \"by Kathy Huberland.\"\nFeatures a life-size doll replica of a bride, complete with veil and wedding dress, descending the stairs. She is fixed against the wall on the landing. Gauzy fabric adorns the walls and garlands of green and flowers encircle the bannister.\n\nPersonal Environment - \"by Judy Huddleston\". Intended by the artist to be \"an entirely different world\" that transcends the \"established plane\".\n\nCrocheted Environment - \"by Faith Wilding\". Resembling a \"primitive womb shelter\", the room is painted black. Crocheted thread covers the wall, and a single light bulb illuminates from the ceiling. \n\nLeaf Room - \"by Ann Mills\". A room with painted leaves. The leaves represent cycles; of seasons, life and feelings. They also functioned as symbolic “shields” for the artist, allowing her to both expose herself and hide at the same time.\nLeah's Room - \"by Karen LeCocq, Nancy Youdelman.\"\nLea, a character based on the aging courtesan from Colette's novel \"Chéri\", sits in a watermelon pink bedroom. The performance (performed by LeCocq) occurred continuously on a daily basis, and involved Lea applying makeup meticulously, then removing it, in an endless cycle to illustrate the pain of aging and the deperate process of trying to restone ones beauty.\nThe performance illustrates the high standards of beauty levied by the pressure of society for women to maintain at all cost. Lea makes continual efforts to keep the attention of a man as her beauty deteriorates with age.\n\nPersonal Space - \"by Janice Lester.\" A bedroom that serves as the artist's personal fantasy, a room that only she can enter. The secret room acts as both a sanctuary and a trap.\n\nPainted Room - \"by Robin Mitchell.\" An otherwise white bedroom with painterly splashes of color on the walls and floor.\n\nRed Moon Room - \"by Mira Schor.\" A painting features a self portrait of the artist and a rising red moon over rolling hills.\n\nShoe Closet - \"by Beth Bachenheimer.\"\nHundreds of pairs of shoes were collected, painted and treated for this installation. A 'spike heel' features real spikes driven from the bottom of the shoe. A closet with a comically extravagant number of shoes conveys the desperate attempt of women to be fashionable.\n\nLinen Closet - \"by Sandy Orgel.\"\nA female mannequin is installed in the closet, with shelves and drawers bisecting her body parts. Folded towels sit on the shelves.\n\nLipstick Bathroom - \"by Camille Grey.\"\nA bathroom where every fixture is painted bright, 'Lipstick' red. The room features 200 plastic lipsticks, a fur-lined bathtub, and a female figure painted entirely red. Stage lights were used to light the bathroom.\n\nMenstruation Bathroom - \"by Judy Chicago.\" The bathroom is painted a stark white, and a layer of gauze covers the shelves. A single trashcan is overflowing with what appear to be used tampons, a woman's \"hidden secret\" that cannot be covered up.\n\nNightmare Bathroom - \"by Robbin Schiff.\" A bathtub hosts a woman's figure with most of her body obscured in water, made entirely from loose sand.\n\nThe Dollhouse Room - \"by Sherry Brody, Miriam Schapiro.\" According to Schapiro, \"The Dollhouse Room\" juxtaposes themes of \"supposed safety and comfort in the home\" with \"terrors existing within its walls\".\n\nThe Nursery - \"by Shawnee Wollenman.\" Oversized furniture and toys simulate the feeling of being young, a small person in a big room. Special attention was made to make the space an androgynous, ideal living space for a child.\n\nGarden Jungle - \"by Paula Longendyke.\" What resembles the skeletal forms of dead animals is present in the garden area. This is meant to convey the weakness and vulnerability of such animals.\n\nNecco Wafers - \"by Christine Rush.\" Pastel colors contrast the otherwise organic colors of the garden. The ground is painted, and \"fanciful clouds\" create a \"fantasy sky\".\n\nWorkshops led by Judy Chicago were held in the Living Room of the house. Ideas for pieces were derived from \"informal working sessions\", in which the women acted out aspects of their lives.\n\nThree Women - Three 'types' of women are represented; the hustler, the hippie, and the mother. They wear exaggerated makeup are initially meant to be comical. They tell the stories, all 'trapped' in some aspect of being a woman.\n\nMaintenance Pieces: \nScrubbing, \"Performed by Christine Rush\" and Ironing, \"Performed by Sandra Orgel\" - \nTwo performance pieces pertaining to maintenance. \nA woman scrubs the floor on all fours with a brush in a continuous, repetitive motion. Another woman irons identical sheets over and over. \nThis isolated monotonous tasks for an audience to highlight their performative nature, and how these performances play a role in the construction of gender roles.\n\nCock and Cunt play - \"Written by Judy Chicago, performed by Janice Lester and Faith Wilding.\" Two characters wearing costumes featuring comically large genitalia converse as \"She\" and \"He\", each acting out the roles of their designated sex. \"He\" argues that her lack of a penis justifies having to do the dishes. This is meant to show how exaggerated essentialist notions about the female body contribute to her role in the domestic sphere and to reveal the consequences of stereotyping.\n\nWaiting - \"Written by Faith Wilding.\" The actress sits in a rocking chair and slowly recounts how her days were structured around 'waiting' for things to happen; her husband to give her pleasure, her kids to leave home, and waiting for some time for herself.\n\nThe Birth Trilogy - In the first section, a group of women stands in a line as they symbolically 'give birth' to one another. The 'babies' in this scenario lay on the ground until their 'mothers' come to hold and nurture them. In the end, all of the women gather in a circle as they chant and sing with heads bowed. The chant grows louder with time, ending in a \"peak of ecstatic sound\".\n\n\"Womanhouse\" was the first feminist art project to receive attention on a national scale following its review by Time (magazine).\n\"Womanhouse\" exhibition served as an introduction of feminism to the general public a revolutionary act for the early 1970s, and it sparked lots of debates. One year after \"Womanhouse\" closed, in an article published by \"Ms.\" Magazine: \"Many women artists have organized, are shedding their shackles, proudly untying the apron strings--and, in some cases, keeping the apron on, flaunting it, turning it into art.\"\n\nA 1972 review in the \"Los Angeles Times\" by William Wilson described \"Womanhouse\" as a \"lair of female creativity\" that \"reminds us that the female is our only direct link with the forces of nature\". Though he remarks that \"man's greatest creative acts may be but envious shadowings of her fecundity\", this review may have also highlighted stereotypical patriarchal attitudes surrounding connections between women's bodies, the domestic, and nature that \"Womanhouse\" attempted to critique. Paula Harper argued that such language is an attempt by critics to soften the impact of \"Womanhouse\" by assimilating it according to conventions of femininity.\n\nSome individuals strongly opposed this exhibition. Some critics claimed that radical feminist art projects such as \"Womanhouse\" \"undermined aesthetic standards\" in the 1970s. Others claimed that it was more therapy than art. Paula Harper challenged this critique, arguing that challenging the definition of art is a \"function of the avant-garde”.\n\nLack of scholarly attention paid to \"Womanhouse\" is attributed to its very early production in the context of Feminist art, its lack of controversiality in relation to other installations of the time (most notably Chicago's own \"The Dinner Party\"), and some accusations of essentialism. However, it is also argued that the piece illustrates, complicates and subverts a \"false binary\" of essential and constructed identity which enhances its value and relevancy.\n\nArtists, artworks, and institutions have been inspired by \"Womanhouse\". The \"Womanhouse\" exhibition cannot be rebuilt, but a few of the rooms have been recreated for special exhibitions. In 1995, for example, the Bronx Museum of the Arts exhibited The Dollhouse by Sherry Brodyand Miriam Schapiro, along with Faith Wilding's Womb Room, a recreation of Judy Chicago's Menstruation Bathroom, and Beth Bachenheimer's Shoe Closet, among others. ”\n\nThe feminist spirit of \"Womanhouse\" lives on through the website Womenhouse, which was inspired by the groundbreaking 1972 exhibition. Faith Wilding is among the participants in this collaborative site featuring virtual rooms and domestic spaces. Womenhouse catapults the issues raised by the original exhibition into the twenty-first century, within \"a cyber-politics that addresses the multivalent vicissitudes of identity formation and domesticity.”\n\n\"Womanhouse\" was produced by Johanna Demetrakas. Miriam Schapiro arranged for a 47-minute documentary film to be made about the project and released in the summer of 1972. The project was produced by Johanna Demetrakas under the auspices of the American Film Society and is a part of Women Make Movies and was released in 1974. Demetrakas was said to be \"impressed\" and \"inspired\" by the project. \n\n\"Womanhouse is Not a Home\" was a film produced by Lynne Littman and directed by Parke Perine. It aired during February 1972 on the local KCET PBS channel. The film showed the installations, had the women artists speak about their work, and featured a consciousness raising session with Gloria Steinem. \n\n\"Woman's House\" was an experimental film by Mako Idemitsu.It is a thirteen-minute film that provides close up details of various installations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39383251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39383251", "title": "Zahiri Revolt", "text": "Zahiri Revolt\n\nThe Zahiri Revolt was a conspiracy leading to a failed coup d'état against the government of the 14th-century Mamluk Sultanate, having been characterized as both a political struggle and a theological conflict. While the initial support for the potential overthrow of the sultan began in Egypt, movement of Egyptian ideological agitators to Syria eventually caused the actual planned uprising to take place in Damascus in 1386. Rallying around Ahmad al-Zahiri, a cleric of the Zahirite school of Sunni Islam, the agitators mobilized from Hama to the capital. Having failed to secure the support of both the Mamluks and local Arab tribes, they were arrested by the authorities of Barquq before armed conflict could even take place.\n\nAlthough not all those taking part in the revolt accepted the views of the Zahiri school of law, the term was used to denote all of those willing to participate in armed conflict against the Mamluk sultan. The suppression of the revolt both practically and ideologically has been described as a sign of the Mamluk authorities' intolerance for non-conformist ideas and willingness to interfere in religious issues normally considered the domain of theologians in Muslim empires.\n\nIn December 1382, Muslim jurist Ibn Abi al-Izz of the Hanafite school came under investigation for his theological criticism of a poem which would eventually be discredited, though not before the jurist's short inquisition. On 27 December that year, an affidavit was signed by the Sultan Barquq condemning the jurist as well as calling for an investigation of rumors regarding other jurists promoting the Zahirite school of Sunni Muslim law in Damascus. The four jurists rumored to be promoting non-conformist views were simply nicknamed al-Qurashi, Ibn al-Jabi, Ibn al-Husbani and Sadr ad-Din al-Yasufi.\n\nFour years later, a Syrian Hanbalite known as Khalid of Homs, who was actually from Aleppo, moved to Damascus under the tutelage of the Sufi ascetic Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Isma'il ibn Abd al-Rahim Shihab ad-Din Abu Hashim al-Zahiri, also known as al-Burhan. During this time, a number of Egyptians who had been influenced by Zahirite theology emigrated to Syria. Burhan engaged in study of Ibn Hazm's book Al-Muhalla alongside Yasufi, with Ibn al-Jabi and Ibn al-Husbani following the other two. Qurashi, on the other hand, associated with the above four only for the purpose of studying, but disliked Burhan personally.\n\nIn August 1386, Khalid of Homs visited a local bedouin chief imprisoned in the Citadel of Damascus to seek support for the overthrow of the sultan and the installation of a caliphate, Barquq himself having overthrown the caliph al-Mutawakkil Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr in order to come to power. The chief suggested that Khalid speak with Ibn al-Himsi, the Citadel's top official with no relation to Khalid despite the similar-sounding name, as he would likely support the overthrow.\n\nKhalid informed the Citadel's commanding officer of the plot, claiming not only to have the backing of local bedouin tribes and urban Damascenes but also to have located a suitable candidate for a new caliph. The officer gave the impression that he supported the plot and asked to meet this new caliph, upon which Khalid revealed him to be Burhan and even gave the officer the exact address of Burhan's house. The officer sent a request for Burhan's presence; upon his arrival, both he and Khalid were immediately arrested.\n\nIn the absence of both the Citadel and Syria's governor Baydamur on leave, Ibn al-Himsi took up the acting role of governor. He wrote to Barquq in Cairo, adding in details of his own to the story. Ibn al-Himsi not only informed the sultan of the capture of two ringleaders but also accused the governor of being a co-conspirator, leading to the arrest of the governor, his son Muhammad Shah, his nephew Aladdin al-Khazindar and two deputies in Ramadan that same year, corresponding September 1386. In the weeks following the arrest of Burhan and Khalid, the focus shifted into a witch hunt for anyone connected to Baydamur, resulting in both political and financial sanctions.\n\nStemming from Burhan's confession, Yasufi was arrested and Ibn al-Husbani went into hiding. A second Hanbalite jurist, Amin ad-Din Ibn al-Najib of Baalbek, was also arrested as a co-conspirator; while he was not directly involved in the conspiracy, he had openly opposed the sultan in the past. In November 1386, Burhan and Khalid were transported to Cairo in order for sultan Barquq to meet them face to face. In their absence, a number of other local officials and clerics were arrested on suspicion of involvement in the conspiracy. Eventually, the prisoners filed a petition requesting to either be released or killed; they were instead shackled and given sentences of manual labor on public construction projects. This set off a chain reaction; local Damascenes, taking pity on the fallen politicians and clerics, began demonstrating at the construction sites in opposition to both the forced manual labor and the Burji administration in general. The military, fearing a spread of the revolt among the lower classes, immediately canceled the labor sentences and returned the prisoners to the Citadel. Opposition to the ruling dynasty increased when a local cleric, Yusuf al-Zuayfarini, began riding around the Citadel on a horse, claiming he would free Baydamur, popular with the common people of Damascus as both a religious cleric in his own right and for refusing to collect taxes levied by the Mamluks which had no origin in Islamic law. Zuayfarini's arrest was ordered as well, though like Ibn al-Husbani, he was able to avoid the Burji law enforcement.\n\nOn 24 December 1386, Burhan, Khalid and Ibn al-Najib arrived in Cairo. Charges were filed of a conspiracy to overthrow the Burji government and install a caliphate with a leader of Qurashi origins. On 16 January 1387, they were brought before the sultan personally for both interrogation and trial. Burhan was defiant, verbally accusing Barquq of misrule by appropriating taxes which had no textual basis in Islamic law and asserting his demand for a Qurashi leader. Uninterested in a polemical debate, Barquq simply ordered the prisoners to be tortured until they revealed the names of all their co-conspirators.\n\nThe fallen governor Baydamur's name was cleared, but not before he died alone in his cell at the Citadel in February 1387. In March 1389, Burhan and Khalid were released in Cairo having only served two years and seven months, due to the intercession of an influential Shafi'ite jurist; Ibn al-Najib, who had been sent back to Damascus, was released along with the other Zahirites in the Citadel a few days later. The only exception aside from Baydamur was Yasufi, who died in the Citadel in August 1387, more than a year before his comrades would be paroled.\n\nWhile the revolt gained early momentum from Zahirite ideas, it is today viewed more in terms of the political agitation against the Mamluks and general displeasure with the marginalization of the caliphate. Historian Al-Maqrizi, normally removed from the topics of his writings, not only reported the revolt but sought to justify it theologically, likely due to his own status as a Zahirite. Maqrizi was also a direct student of Burhan in theology.\n"}
