{"id": "53146198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53146198", "title": "13th National Geographic Bee", "text": "13th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 13th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 23, 2001, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Kyle Haddad-Fonda of Shoreline, Washington, who won a $25,000 college scholarship and lifetime membership in the National Geographic Society. The 2nd-place winner, Nick Jachowski of Makawao, Hawaii, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Jason Ferguson of Dallas, Texas, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "27634110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27634110", "title": "America in Bloom", "text": "America in Bloom\n\nAmerica In Bloom (AIB) is an independent, non-profit 501(c)(3) organization which promotes community enhancement programs through the use of flowers, plants, and trees. America in Bloom sponsors an annual nationwide competition between participating communities throughout the United States and provides related educational programs. Communities receive top overall awards, based on their size. Within the entire body of participants, outstanding communities are also cited for their achievements in the areas of floral displays, landscaped areas, urban forestry, environmental awareness, heritage preservation, overall impression, and community involvement. Additional special awards vary each year and relate to a specific noteworthy community feature. Examples of these include: Most Attractive Naturalistic Landscape, Most Dynamic Transformation of a Downtown Streetscape, Most Beautiful Canopy of Trees, Public Art that Celebrates the Heritage of the Community, Best Program for Engaging Youth in their Community, Best Container Display, or Most Innovative Environmental Initiative Involving Water Conservation. For special awards entrants compete against all participating communities regardless of size.\n\nThe organization was founded in 2002 and modeled after long-standing programs in Europe: Ireland (Tidy Towns) Britain (Britain in Bloom and Regions) Scotland (Beautiful Scotland), Italy (Comune Fiorito), and originally France (Villes et Villages Fleuris), as well as Australia (Australia Tidy Town Awards) and Canada (Communities in Bloom). The US organization has grown to embrace 235 participating cities in 40 states and touches more than 22 million lives.\n\nAmerica in Bloom is a grass-roots urban renewal program which provides a framework and is a catalyst for community organizations to work together for visible improvements. It offers one-on-one mentoring to participating communities and provides an extensive written evaluation detailing recommended improvements and enhancements. Its website provides educational materials related to the benefits of quality landscapes and more..\n\nThrough its national awards and mentoring program, AIB helps towns harness untapped energy, talent, and resources to champion greening, enhance environmental awareness, promote economic development, and improve quality of life.\n\nThe AIB program is designed to bring people from every demographic together to create meaningful, visible, constructive projects, by combining efforts of residents, businesses, and local government. These groups work on common goals in areas including: floral displays, landscaped areas, urban forestry, environmental awareness, heritage preservation, overall impression and community involvement.\n\nEligible program entrants include towns, communities, cities, neighborhoods of large cities, business districts, military bases, and college campuses. Due to the numerous cases of consistent community involvement since 2002, in 2015 a new category, \"Circle of Champions\", was created for those participants that won repeatedly in the past. The 2015 Circle of Champion Winners were Holland, MI (mid-sized city category) and Lewes, DE (small city category).\n\n\n\n\n\nAmerica in Bloom is governed by a volunteer Board of Directors:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42348960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42348960", "title": "American University of Phnom Penh", "text": "American University of Phnom Penh\n\nThe American University of Phnom Penh (; AUPP) is a private English-medium university founded in August 2013, with a campus in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. The university offers four-year American dual degree programs with majors in Architecture, Business, Communication, Computer Science, Global Affairs, Graphic Design, Interior Design, Law, and Tourism and Hospitality Management.\n\nThe vision for AUPP originated with Dr. Chea Vandeth along with Dr. Kem Reat Viseth, the former Director of the School of Graduate Studies of the National School of Management and Dr. Kenneth Dunn, a Fulbright Scholar to Cambodia, who together conceptualized a new university that would embody international best practices and offer academic programs of the highest quality. AUPP was organized as a non-profit institution with the mission of contributing to the human resource development of Cambodia. In 2013, AUPP began operations with 40 students at a temporary campus in Toul Kork.\n\nA Board of Trustees was formed to direct the course of the University and oversee its development. At the same time an International Advisory Board was created including experienced educators, administrators and business leaders from the U.S. and Cambodia. This board was tasked with advising AUPP on its management, governance and academic structures, programs and services.\n\nThe U.S. Embassy offered its support with the following statement: “AUPP collaborates with the U.S. Embassy in Cambodia to enhance the academic, professional, and social opportunities for AUPP students”.\n\nAUPP has further solidified a Micro Campus and Dual Degree agreement with the University of Arizona and a Dual Degree agreement with Fort Hays State University. These agreements will, for the first time, allow Cambodian students to receive accredited American degrees without having to leave Cambodia.\n\nAUPP’s first President, Dr. Sharon Siverts, was appointed in July 2014.\n\nAUPP's new President, Dr. Kenneth Dunn, was appointed in 2016.\n\nAUPP moved into its new campus in 2017, located at 278H Street 201R, Russei Kéo, Phnom Penh, Cambodia. This modern facility has been designed to enhance and support a model academic teaching and learning environment, incorporating the newest technologies, a learning center library, a modern FIFA regulation football field and student services that will complement academic offerings. The environment will allow students to develop their full potential, and acquire the necessary education and relevant skills to be competitive in the 21st century.\n\nAUPP’s management is composed of qualified and experienced administrators with experience in American and other western institutions. AUPP employs highly qualified faculty members who have terminal degrees in their respective fields and international experience.\n\nAUPP signed a Micro Campus agreement with University of Arizona (U of A) and a Dual Degree agreement with Fort Hays State University (FHSU) at the AUPP campus in Phnom Penh, under which they will enter into a cooperative arrangement to deliver dual degree programs to AUPP students. This is the first time that a U.S. degree can be completed by Cambodian students entirely in Cambodia. The programs offered by AUPP with U of A and FHSU are “dual degrees”, meaning that students who finish four years of study at AUPP will receive one bachelor's degree from AUPP and another one from an American Partner University. This agreement also allows AUPP students to study abroad at U of A or at FHSU in the United States for one or two semesters depending on their choice of Major.\n\nAUPP offers the following majors in partnership with University of Arizona or Fort Hays State University:\n\n\nStudent learning and development are promoted inside and outside of the classroom. In addition to AUPP’s rigorous academic programs, meaningful out-of-classroom learning opportunities further AUPP’s mission of developing critical thinkers and socially responsible leaders. AUPP believes student involvement is a crucial part of the college experience and enhances students’ learning and preparation for successful careers.\n\nAUPP’s student clubs include an IT club, yoga club, movie making club, football club, and several others. Students are also involved in service-learning projects (social responsibility). The elected student government provides leadership opportunities, organizes field trips, and organizes a speaker series which further round out students’ education.\n\nAUPP’s internship program allows students to gain experience, build confidence, and enhance leadership capabilities by working as interns in various local organizations or on summer internship opportunities overseas. The school also actively engages students in providing post graduate job opportunities and assists in getting students into advanced degree programs.\n"}
{"id": "7536329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7536329", "title": "Amigos Library Services", "text": "Amigos Library Services\n\nAmigos Library Services, Inc. is a membership-based American not-for-profit chartered to serve libraries. The organization was formed in 1974 in Dallas, Texas, United States, as the AMIGOS Bibliographic Council was included 22 libraries, united to bring OCLC access to the southwestern United States. Today, Amigos is one of the nation’s largest library resource-sharing networks and a provider of information technology to libraries.\n\nIn July 2012, Amigos merged with Missouri Library Network Corporation (MLNC), a member-based organization similar to Amigos and headquartered in St. Louis. The action followed votes to approve the merger in April 2012 by MLNC members and May 2012 by Amigos members. The prime motivation of the MLNC Board was to meet the needs of MLNC's members and fulfill the organization's mission. The Board conducted a thorough analysis of options and concluded that this merger best helps MLNC achieve that goal.\n\nBoth Amigos and MLNC brought strong continuing education programs to the new organization. MLNC and Amigos members immediately began to benefit from an increased ability to leverage library resources for purchasing thousands of library products and services from leading providers. The combined organization retained the Amigos name with Dallas as its headquarters and an office in the St. Louis area. The new organization became the largest library network west of the Mississippi River, comprising libraries and cultural heritage institutions in 22 states.\n\nThe Amigos membership consists of over 750 libraries and cultural-heritage institutions, located primarily in the southwestern United States, who use Amigos' line of services, including cataloging, reference, resource sharing, preservation, digital imaging, consulting, and training.\n\nThe mission of Amigos Library Services is to:\n\nAmigos Library Services is similar in scope to other library-oriented consortia such as Bibliographical Center for Research, OhioLINK, PALINET and LYRASIS.\n\n"}
{"id": "26342071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26342071", "title": "Anna Plisetskaya", "text": "Anna Plisetskaya\n\nAnna Plisetskaya (, born August 18, 1971) is a Russian ballerina, actress and producer.\n\nAnna Plisetskaya belongs to an artistic family of Messerer - Plisetski.\n\n\nAnna was born in Moscow on August 18, 1971.\n\nShe spent her childhood in South America. During 1974–76 her family lived in Lima (Peru), where her father had founded the Ballet at National University of San Marcos. Next two years the family spent in Buenos Aires (Argentina) where her father worked for Teatro Colón (1976–78).\n\nAnna Plisetskaya studied at Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet in Saint Petersburg during 1981-1989. Upon graduation from the Academy, Anna was invited to Mariinsky Theatre where she became a soloist dancer. From 1989 to 1995 danced at a number of a world-famous ballets: \"Don Quixote\", \"La Sylphide\", \"Coppélia\", \"Polovetsian Dances\" from the opera \"Prince Igor\", \"The Fountain of Bakhchisarai\", and Mirta at «Giselle».\n\nIn 1993–95 Anna was a soloist of the Béjart Ballet troupe directed by Maurice Béjart.\n\nAnna Plisetskaya had her own \"Solo Ballet Program\" from 1995 to 2006.\n\n\nDuring 2007–10 Anna Plisetskaya was a guest at numerous TV shows. Documentary films about Anna were broadcast on Russian local TV channels STS, NTV, REN-TV, TV Center, Russia K and other.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1626752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1626752", "title": "BiblioVault", "text": "BiblioVault\n\nBiblioVault is a virtual warehouse for academic books that serves more than 90 scholarly publishers in the U.S. and Europe. \n\nDevelopment began in late 2001 under the auspices of the University of Chicago Press, with financial support from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. \n\nAs of mid 2015, BiblioVault provided long-term secure storage for more than 40,000 digital book files from 110 publishers, and offered scanning, printing, transfer, conversion, file distribution, print on demand and ebook order fulfillment services to its members.\n\nBiblioVault hosts a public web site, bibliovault.org, with information about each title, including descriptions, cover thumbnails, tables of contents, excerpts, and reviews. The site links to member press shopping carts, for immediate online purchase of the books listed. Accessibility offices can request files for students with disabilities from these pages as well.\n\nMember presses visit BiblioVault's publishers' site, to submit and retrieve their files, edit metadata about their titles, and order deliveries of files and metadata to e-retailers, search sites, and printers. BiblioVault is also associated with a digital printing center within the Chicago Distribution Center for short-run printing (and automated physical warehouse restocking) of titles stored in the repository.\n\nBesides making more than file deliveries to e-retailers, such as Amazon Kindle, Barnes & Noble's Nook, Apple's iBooks, Google Play, etc., BiblioVault also fulfills ebooks directly using Adobe Digital Editions for member presses, via the Chicago Distribution Center's online shopping cart and several other independent press shopping carts.\n\n"}
{"id": "34191616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34191616", "title": "Bill Alexander (painter)", "text": "Bill Alexander (painter)\n\nWilliam Alexander (2 April 1915 – 24 January 1997; born \"Wilhelm Alexander\") known as Bill Alexander on his TV show; was a German painter, art instructor, and television host. He was the creator and host of \"The Magic of Oil Painting\" (1974–82) television series that ran on PBS in the United States. He wrote \"The Art of Bill Alexander\" (1987–95), a series of books on wet-on-wet oil painting. He also taught the television painter Bob Ross the wet-on-wet technique.\n\nBill Alexander was born in East Prussia, but his family fled to Berlin during World War I. Apprenticed as a carriage maker, Alexander was drafted into the Wehrmacht during World War II. Captured by Allied troops, he painted portraits of Allied officers' wives and he soon made his way to the United States.\n\nAfter WWII, he became a refugee, and professional painter, pioneering the modern \"quick\" version of the wet-on-wet technique, and moving to North America. Later, he became a TV host on his painting education TV show.\n\nAlexander is best known for the television program \"The Magic of Oil Painting\" (1974-1982), which ran on PBS in the United States. In the tv series \"The Art of Bill Alexander & Robert Warren\" (1984–1992), Alexander teamed with painters Lowell Speers, Robert Warren, Buck Paulson and Diane André. Alexander would introduce the episode, then hand it off to the hosting painter. This series is often erroneously listed either as a series of books or as a single documentary.\n\nTV host and prolific painter Bob Ross studied under Alexander, from whom he learned his wet-on-wet technique, a method of painting rapidly using progressively thinner layers of oil paint. Ross dedicated the first episode of the second season of \"The Joy of Painting\" to Alexander, explaining that \"Years ago, Bill taught me this fantastic technique, and I feel as though he gave me a precious gift, and I'd like to share that gift with you [the viewer]\". As Ross's popularity grew, his relationship with Alexander became increasingly strained. \"He betrayed me,\" Alexander told the \"New York Times\" in 1991. \"I invented 'wet on wet', I trained him, and ... he thinks he can do it better.\" Art historians have pointed out that the \"wet-on-wet\" (or alla prima) technique actually originated in Flanders during the 15th century, and was used by Frans Hals, Diego Velázquez, Caravaggio, Paul Cezanne, John Singer Sargent, and Claude Monet, among many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "23666048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23666048", "title": "CK-12 Foundation", "text": "CK-12 Foundation\n\nThe CK-12 Foundation is a California-based non-profit organization whose stated mission is to reduce the cost of, and increase access to, K-12 education in the United States and abroad. CK-12 provides free and customizable K-12 open educational resources aligned to state curriculum standards. The foundation's tools are used by 38,000 schools in the US, and additional international schools.\n\nCK-12 was established in 2007 by Neeru Khosla and Murugan Pal to support K-12 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education. The organization first generated and distributed educational content via a web-based platform called the \"FlexBook.\" CK-12 has updated its FlexBook platform and has begun to focus on concept-based, multi-modality learning. CK-12 is being funded by the Amar Foundation and by Vinod and Neeru Khosla.\n\nNeeru Khosla teamed with her husband, Vinod Khosla, to think about how to make a positive impact in the educational sphere. Neeru chose to focus in particular on high school and middle school students and teachers, most notably in the areas of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Neeru found an enabling partner in Murugan Pal, whose strong technical and entrepreneurial skills helped the CK-12 idea manifest into a not-for-profit educational organization. She then recruited teachers from all across America to author CK-12 textbooks, to be published under Creative Commons licenses. Explaining why she chose to provide open-source and collaborative content, Neeru says, “We can’t make all kids get an education, but we can make it simpler, easier, and more affordable. That’s the philosophy behind the openness as far as I’m concerned.\"\n\nThe \"C\" in CK-12 originally stood for \"connect\", indicating that the material was the missing connection in K-12 education. The company's website now states that the C has an open meaning, and can stand for \"content, classroom, customizable, connections, collaboration—the idea is that our content can be used by anyone, anywhere for free.\"\n\nIn March 2013, Microsoft announced a partnership with CK-12 to provide content to Microsoft's Windows 8 customers.\n\nThe FlexBook System is an online platform for assembling, authoring, and distributing interactive, multi-modal educational content. Content is searchable by subject, grade-level, and state and national education standards. FlexBooks can be downloaded and used as-is, or can be customized by teachers to match their students’ learning styles and their schools’ curricula. Inside each book, entire chapters or bite-sized concepts can be rearranged, added, removed, and edited. Any user can input text, photos, videos, exercises, study guides, assessments, notes, or highlights to their FlexBook. FlexBooks can be shared, for free, with user-created groups in print, online, by email, or on social media platforms including Facebook and Twitter. Some Flexbooks are even available in Spanish and Hindi.\n\nAll FlexBooks conform to national and state curriculum guidelines, Common Core Standards, and can be re-aligned to International standards. Flexbooks are offered under the Creative Commons by Attribution, Share-alike, and Non-commercial license, removing many of the restrictions that limit distribution of traditional textbooks. Most CK-12 FlexBooks are created internally by authors with teaching and domain expertise. Additional FlexBooks are acquired through university donations and licensing partnerships. CK-12’s current library of 88 downloadable Flexbooks can be accessed in PDF, ePub, and Amazon Kindle optimized format.\n\nThe technologies used in creation of CK-12 FlexBooks are:\n\n\nCK-12 organizes its educational content into roughly 5000 concepts (e.g., \"Two digit multiplication\" or \"Photosynthesis\" or \"Newton’s law\"). CK-12 believes that these “Byte-Sized” units of \ncontent and modalities of learning (as well as varied styles of learning) are more important tools for facilitating learning than traditional educational materials like textbooks. These concepts are further organized into \"Learning Paths.\"\n\nCk-12 content is available in a number of formats, which the organization describes as multiple “modalities of the concept.” Each modality is defined as “a different way to learn or explore” a specific concept and its relationship to other concepts. Examples include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nIn addition to its 88 FlexBooks, the CK-12 Foundation also offers the following resources to K-12 students:\n\nIn the future, CK-12 intends to expand its offerings by continuing to produce its own content, but also by asking for contributions from its active, engaged community. CK-12 will continue to match its content to an expanding base of learning standards like McREL Compendium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22536052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22536052", "title": "Charles Holston Williams", "text": "Charles Holston Williams\n\nCharles Williams was born in Lexington, Kentucky, on January 25, 1886. In 1904 he attended high school at Berea College, but the following year Williams was forced to transfer to an all-black school, Hampton Institute, because the state general assembly had passed the Day Law, stating that blacks and whites could no longer attend the same schools. At Hampton Institute, Williams resumed his high school education and continued on to further his college education\n\nIn college, Williams excelled in football, basketball, and baseball and gained the reputation of being an outstanding athlete. However, in 1910, he fell from a scaffold while painting a house, injured his knees, and was told that he would never be able to walk again. Williams' persistence, a trait that enabled him to complete several visionary projects during his lifetime, allowed him to recover and pull himself through this rough time. That same year, Williams became the director of physical training at Hampton Institute.\n\nWilliams' interest in dance came from his deep involvement in physical education and recreation. He believed that athletic and social games, track and field meets, as well as other rhythmic movement activities served as a tool for self-improvement and development. Furthermore, Williams thought that dance served an important purpose of connecting African Americans to their heritage. This idea foreshadows the philosophy behind the Harlem Renaissance, which came a few years after.\n\nIn 1917, Williams organized annual physical education demonstrations in which the students and faculty at the Hampton Institute performed drills, gymnastics, and dances for the public. Students performed L'Zoronta, a Spanish dance, and the Tarantella, an Italian folk dance. At this point in time, Williams had not yet incorporated his idea about the heritage of African Americans and dance movement; this implementation was to come in subsequent years.\n\nIn 1925, the Denishawn Company performed at Hampton Ogden Hall. The company's appearance allowed for a mutually supportive relationship between Ted Shawn and Williams during the 1930s. In 1934, Ted Shawn even contributed one of his dances to the Hampton Creative Dance Group.\n\nIn 1930, Williams attended the Harvard University Summer School of Physical Training, earned his master's degree, as well as took dance classes. In 1937 and 1938 he attended the Bennington Summer School of Dance where he observed classes and attended various performances. These two schools shaped his knowledge on dance as well as improved his dance technique, and choreography.\n\nOn Hampton's sixty-sixth anniversary celebration, on April 26 and 27, 1934, Williams presented a program of \"interpretive dances.\" Two pieces, \"The Feast of Ramadan\", which was about the Muslim celebration after a month of fasting, and \"Ya Ma Wisee\", which was a dance of thanksgiving, were the first two dances to become a part of the Hampton Creative Dance Group repertoire.\n\nIn 1934, Williams established the Hampton Institute Creative Dance Group. Williams, along with the help of some of his male African students, choreographed works that were to be performed by the company. Frank O. Roberts from Liberia, was Williams' most outstanding student and was a featured soloist with the Hampton company. In the early stages, it was the male dancers who were predominantly featured throughout the Hampton group's repertoire. Williams exemplified his affinity for working with male students in his energetic, athletic work entitled \"Men of Valor\", which was also presented during the anniversary of Hampton Institute in 1934. Williams' background as an athlete served as inspiration for this work as he used the movements from sports such as boxing and shot-putting, as the basis of his choreography.\n\nThrough the years, Williams reached out to female faculty members to assist him. His best known co-director was Charlotte Moten, who worked with the company from 1936 to 1942. The addition of female dancers to the company increased when Moten began working with Williams. In 1936, the company had become officially recognized as a welcome addition to the other performance groups on campus and embarked on its series of tours.\n\nIn 1937, the company went on a southern tour in April and performed at the major black colleges - Florida A&M in Tallahassee, Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, and North Carolina A&T. During the winter, they performed at Bryn Mawr College in Pennsylvania, high schools in New Jersey, the YM-YWHA's Theresa L. Kaufmann Auditorium in New York, and the Lafayette Theatre in Harlem. Some of the works that were performed included:\"Dis Ole Hammer – Water Boy\", \"Mama Parah\", which involved Roberts doing West African movements on stilts, \"Wyomami\", a work that dealt with African marriage customs, and \"The Fangai Man\", which centered on the West Indian Obeah man. The company continued touring and received favorable reviews from many popular periodicals such as TIME Magazine, and the New York Sun Times. They abruptly stopped, however, when America was drawn into World War II, and many of the men dancing at Hampton had to leave school to defend their country. The company resumed in 1946 but very slowly because Williams was too pressured from universities, the community, and his business responsibilities. In 1951, Williams retired from Hampton.\n\nThe influence of the company on the development of Negro concert dance was very significant. Even though the company was composed of amateurs who were Hampton Institute students majoring in physical education, these students were eventually going to go on teaching in the segregated Negro schools throughout the country. Williams' students brought with them a dance training that had the potential for creating future programs as well as the ability to educate audience members\n\nToday, the Hampton Institute is known as the Terpischorean Dance Company and performs at Hampton University and in the surrounding community. They showcase the talents of Hampton students who have studied Tap, Ballet, African, Jazz, Modern, and other forms of dance. Hampton University has \"paid homage to the cultural significance of the Black Dance experience and provides students with diverse cultural opportunities in the predominantly African American Dance Company.\".\n\nCharles Williams was famous for his use of African diasporas in his modern dance choreography. His innovative style came from his ability to fuse cultural and spiritual themes with modern elements. The Dance Group also used Haitian and African religious dance forms, as well as Negro spirituals. Apart from African dances, Williams also chose to infuse his works with black American material. For example, he used some of the older plantation dances such as the \"Juba\" and \"Cake-Walk\" in his choreography.\n\n\"The Southern Workman\" (1917) - an article Williams published in Hampton's monthly journal that dealt with his ideas concerning the importance of movement in the lives of young people.\n\n\"Cotton Needs Pickin\"' (1928) - explores the relationship between art, recreation, and the folklore of black Americans. Williams also included a documentation of numerous folk dances native to southern blacks, and included written descriptions, lines of music, and photographs.\n\nOther works include: \"Characteristic Negro Folk Dances\", \"Negro Soldiers in World War I: The Human Side\", \"Sidelights on Negro Soldiers\", and \"The Race Problem\".\n"}
{"id": "27130623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27130623", "title": "Cigarette smoking among college students", "text": "Cigarette smoking among college students\n\nThe majority of lifelong smokers begin smoking habits before the age of 24, which makes the college years a critical time for tobacco companies to convince college students to pick up the habit of cigarette smoking. Cigarette smoking in college is seen as a social activity by those who partake in it, and more than half of the students that are users do not consider themselves smokers. This may be because most college students plan to quit smoking by the time that they graduate.\n\nThe prevalence of cigarette smoking by college students increased through the 1990s, but has since leveled off and seen decreases in recent years. Education on the dangers of cigarettes is seen as a leading cause for this decrease. This activity is being seen as less socially acceptable than it was in the past.\n\nCigarette smoking on college campuses has become an important public health issue and there has been increase in campus wide smoking bans and other preventative programs to reduce the rates of students smoking. The cause of these bans are now starting to be discovered and there is controversy that goes along with implementing them across various schools in the United States. Protests against smoking bans are seen as a possible threat at schools such as the University of Vermont and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Some smokers may also choose to neglect the bans and continue to smoke cigarettes regardless.\n\nThe percentage of college students that smoke has fluctuated greatly over the years. Studies in 1993 and 1997 showed that the percent of U.S. college students who smoked were 22 percent and 28 percent respectively. The Harvard School of Public Health concluded the percentage of college students who used tobacco products at least once a month was about 33 percent. \n\nCertain social, economic, and environmental factors can be associated with the prediction of youth and an increased use in tobacco. Risk factors include:\n\nStudents note that smoking cigarettes reduces anxiety, and smoking often occurs after stressful events or in stressful situations. Studies find that depressed college students are more likely to smoke and have a more difficult time quitting than non-depressed college students. 31.9% of college smokers attribute their smoking behavior as a means to alleviate their depression. Depression is related to lower self-efficacy, and depressed individuals are considered less able to resist smoking during times of low self esteem, which leads to higher reports of smoking among depressed individuals.\n\nFor women in particular, smoking is a tool for weight loss and weight management. Nicotine in cigarettes is a successful appetite suppressant, which contributes to the use of cigarettes as a dieting tool. The pressure to be thin along with a need for social approval drives many young college women to smoke. Body-conscious college women are also shown to be at higher risk for the continuation of smoking. Women who discontinue the use of nicotine as an appetite suppressant tend to gain weight initially, and women who are especially concerned with body weight will see this as a reason to continue smoking.\nThe media and tobacco advertising play an increasing role in perpetuating the thin body ideal. Studies show the more exposure women have to images of thin women, the lower their body satisfaction, and the more likely they are to want to diet.\n\nSome studies suggest even a student’s field of study may correlate to their smoking. The highest rates of smoking are found in students majoring in Communications, languages, or Cultural Studies, (37.4%) and the lowest rates of smoking are found in students majoring in Mathematics, Engineering, and sciences (21.0%).<br>A study conducted at the University of Saint Joseph in Connecticut found that only 4% of nursing and bio-medical or health majors smoked cigarettes while up to 12% of students in other majors smoked.\n\nSmoking is viewed, by some students, as a way to socialize and take study breaks. Smoking is also correlated with alcohol use among college students. This is significant because alcohol use is highly prevalent among college students. Smoking is perceived by college students to aid in social interactions, particularly with potential dating or sexual partners. Tobacco companies use this conception in their advertising. Companies produce ads depicting sexual images of men and women. Smoking after drinking is seen as a method of reorientation and an attempt to reduce feelings of inebriation, though smoking will not reduce blood alcohol levels. College students view smoking while drinking as a more acceptable practice relative to smoking while sober. Students who smoke while inebriated feel less judged by their peers. The most effective public health interventions that aim to reduce cigarette smoking among college students target both alcohol and nicotine use.\n\nToday’s smoking culture includes a subpopulation of smokers called “social smokers”. Although there may be different explanations of what a social smoker is, many college students define “social smokers” as those who use tobacco in more social activities and find it essential for socializing, rather than using tobacco on a regular basis, dictated by nicotine dependence. Social smokers are not addicted to smoking, or worried about the social acceptability of their smoking habits. In a study conducted in 2004, 51% of current college smokers stated that they primarily smoked with other people and in social activities. 71% of occasional smokers smoked in a social situation, compared to daily smokers, 19% of which smoke in social environment. Students who started smoking within the past two years of the study were more than twice as likely to be social smokers than students who had been smoking for a longer period of time prior to the study. Characteristics of social smokers have been found to include more females and non-Hispanic whites than other demographic characteristics, spent more time socializing with friends, were binge drinkers and had a high importance for the arts. Lastly, social smokers don’t perceive themselves at risk to tobacco related illnesses, nor believe they will ever become nicotine dependent. Since social smokers don’t think they’ll become dependent on nicotine, they don’t plan on quitting during college, but have intentions to quit once they graduate.\n\nStudies have shown that there are social differences in the smoking behaviors of males and females in college. In a 2006 study, qualitative analysis data showed that males and females have certain perceptions of their sex or the opposite sex smoking. From both male and female students’ perspectives, there were negative feelings towards women smoking and it was considered “unladylike”. However, if men were smoking, the perception was positive, and they were considered cool or gave off a “tough guy” image. In addition to drinking alcohol at parties, male students appeared in control if they had a cigarette in the other hand. Even though there were negative perceptions of female students smoking, smoking at parties is considered more of a female behavior rather than a male behavior. Despite negative perceptions of females smoking, students thought that when females smoke in groups of girlfriends it wasn’t trashy. Rather, when female students smoked in groups of girlfriends it appeared as though individual’s smoking habits were regulated by the group, instead of the individual’s dependence on nicotine.\nThese perceived gender differences are inextricably linked with social environments where smoking and alcohol consumption occur. The perceptions of cigarette smoking in male and female students reflect similar perceptions of alcohol use in college students.\n\nThe tobacco industry is particularly concerned with younger audiences because they constitute the future of smoking and tobacco profits. In an insider document from Philip Morris, the company states:\n\"It is important to know as much as possible about teenage smoking patterns and attitudes. Today's teenager is tomorrow's potential regular customer, and the overwhelming majority of smokers first begin to smoke while still in their teens... The smoking patterns of teenagers are particularly important to Philip Morris.\" - Philip Morris Companies Inc., 1981.\nTobacco advertisements target youth and try to market cigarettes as a way to cope with changing environments (Ling). College is considered a crucial time in the lives of adolescents and is a time for change, experimentation, and discovery, which makes it an ideal time for tobacco companies to advertise and gain future consumers.\n\nThe industry refers to new smokers as “replacement smokers” because they are in effect, replacing smokers who have quit or died, whether from smoking or other causes, over the years. Young people, including college students, constitute the majority of replacement smokers, and tobacco companies have created marketing campaigns targeting this age group. These advertisements show smoking as modern, hip, cool, fun, and adventurous. The Joe Camel cartoon character is famously known as RJ Reynolds’ tool to entice younger audiences towards cigarette smoking.\n\nTobacco companies use “alternative press” and brand recognition as another way to advertise toward college-aged students. Companies put their logo on everyday items like towels, clothing, and accessories, and this memorabilia is then given for free during events. These logos can also be seen in restaurants and bars, which are places young people frequent. During the 1980s and 1990s, tobacco companies aggressively advertised their products in bars and nightclubs, mostly targeting younger audiences. According to insider documents from tobacco companies RJ Reynolds and Philip Morris, tobacco companies had several strategies for targeting youth. They handed out free samples, sponsored parties at bars and fraternities on campuses, and hosted many events in popular spring break towns.\nThis aggressive advertising led to a general increase in smoking among young adults aged 18 to 24.\n\nEach year, approximately 440,000 deaths and $193 billion in healthcare costs are related to cigarette smoking, including smoking on college campuses (even though taxed tobacco amount to an excess of over $245 billion locally and is funded on the behalf of cancer research). Many campuses in the United States are attempting to reduce smoking rates among students by implementing campus-wide smoking bans. Various forms of smoking bans have been around for hundreds of years. The first recorded legislation prohibiting tobacco use was in the Spanish colonies in 1575, passed by the Roman Catholic Church. In the United States, smoking bans increased around the early twentieth century and have been increasing ever since. In 1973, Arizona is the first state to pass a comprehensive law restricting smoking in public places in the current era. The numbers of smoking bans on college campuses across the country have been increasing. Between 2006 and 2008, the number of smoke-free campuses have quadrupled from 34 to 160, but approximately 365 US colleges and universities have implemented some kind of anti-smoking rule, both indoor and outdoor as well as around 500 campuses have smoke-free policies set in place for their residential housing. Smoking bans on college and university campuses have led to debates that bring forward a number of pros and cons. For example, some pros to implementing campus wide smoking bans include creating a healthier environment and dramatically reducing the amount of environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) or secondhand smoke (SHS). On the other hand, some students feel that these smoking bans violate their rights. The tobacco industry agrees that individuals should be able to avoid ETS or SHS, but believe that complete campus-wide bans \"go too far\".\nA study from 2005 found that other forms of intervention to decrease the rates of tobacco use on campus, such as restriction of tobacco distribution and restriction of smoking within 20 feet from entrances weren’t as effective as other programs like smoking cessation programs in influencing college students’ smoking behaviors. When prevention-oriented education was present on college campuses, students were 23% less likely to smoke compared to their peers who were not exposed to this kind of education. In addition to campus wide smoking bans, other interventions include health promotion programs that teach students the benefits of avoiding smoking and environments with smoke and create a general healthy college community.\n\n"}
{"id": "19791376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19791376", "title": "Citadel of Montpellier", "text": "Citadel of Montpellier\n\nThe Citadel of Montpellier is an Early Modern fortification in the city of Montpellier, in the Hérault département of southern France. It was built between 1624 and 1627, after several rebellions under the orders of Louis XIII in order to keep watch over the town. In the 20th century it became the Joffre Barracks, named after Joseph Joffre, and since 1947 the citadel has been an academic campus - the nationwide famous Lycée Joffre.\n\nIn 1621, King Louis XIII arrived with soldiers to quell a Huguenot rebellion; he took over the city after an eight-month siege. The king ordered that a royal citadel close to the city be constructed to control the city and the surrounding region, where there was a large Huguenot population.\n\nThe citadel was built between 1624 and 1627 between the fortifications of the \"Écusson\", or old town, and the coastal plain of the River Lez. It was separated from the city proper by a wide esplanade, looking over the floodplain of the Lez. It comprised four bastions organized in a square: facing the city was the \"Bastion du Roi\" (\"King's Bastion\") to the northwest and the \"Bastion de la Reine\" (\"Queen's Bastion\") to the southwest; facing the floodplain was the \"Bastion de Montmorency\" to the northeast and the \"Bastion de Ventadour\" to the southeast.\n\nThe buildings within the citadel have been reconstructed multiple times. The last reconstruction before the citadel was converted into an educational building was in 1863. \n\nUnder the Ancien Régime, the citadel held royal troops as well as detachments of conscripted forces from Bas-Languedoc. Later, it became a barracks of the 2nd regiment of Génie.\nDuring the 19th century, it became clear that the high school for young men in Montpellier was too small: having been built near the esplanade in 1804 in the same place as a former Jesuit school, by the later part of the century, the high school and its students were dispersed throughout two other sites north of the old town.\n\nIn 1947 city authorities decided to move the high school into the citadel, which had since become the Joffre Barracks. The first classes were held there on 1 October 1948, and the last students were moved in during October 1959.\n\nSince then, the buildings have been adapted to present-day life and new buildings for classrooms have been added. The powder magazine of the \"Bastion de Montmorency\" has been converted into an olympic pool and large gymnasium, and the nearby fields into athletic fields. The academic campus, constituted of the middle school, high school and \"classes préparatoires\", occupies 15 hectares.\n\nOf the original citadel, the following vestiges remain:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48461361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48461361", "title": "Classroom Assessment Techniques", "text": "Classroom Assessment Techniques\n\nClassroom Assessment Techniques, also referred to as CATs, are strategies educators use to gauge how well students are comprehending key points during a lesson or a course. The techniques are meant to be a type of formative assessment that also allow teachers to make adjustments to a lesson based on students' needs. CATs are most commonly ungraded, unanimous, and are conducted during class time.\n\nThe incorporation of classroom assessment techniques is an age-old concept which teachers have been using and practicing for years. Whether a teacher uses a technique learned in training, or simply a strategy conjured up on their own, teachers need to know if their methods are successful and many feel that the desire to understand students' comprehension is instinctive. Despite this innate characteristic among teachers, the first real attempt to document such techniques for teachers didn't appear until 1988, when K. Patricia Cross and Thomas A. Angelo published “Classroom Assessment Techniques: A Handbook for Faculty”.\n\nBy using feedback attained through CATs, teachers gain insight into which concepts their students understand the best and which ones are most confusing. They can then use this information to decide when there needs to be more instruction, and when the class is ready to move on to the next topic. In this way, teachers are able to meet the needs of their students most effectively. These techniques can also help teachers understand the ways their students learn the best, as well as alert teachers when a certain teaching approach is not working very well. Other benefits include flexibility and timeliness. Many of the techniques, although not all, can be used in a variety of ways. They can be adapted to fit large or small class sizes, or modified depending on what subject matter is being taught; they can be used to assess students' recall or critical thinking skills. Also, CATs require very little time, if any, to be set aside - most of the activities can be conducted during regular instruction time.\n\nClassroom Assessment Techniques allow students a chance to see how they are progressing over time. Along with that, it shows students that their feedback can make a difference in what and how they learn, which in turn could lead students to take more ownership of their education. Students have reported that they feel more involved in the learning process when these techniques are used in the classroom because it requires them to focus on what they're learning – they become active participants rather than passive learners. The integration of CATs in the classroom can also serve as an example for how learning is an ongoing, highly adaptable process.\n\nThe Background Knowledge Probe consists of a few simple questions (and perhaps a couple focused ones) asked typically before the start of a unit or when introducing a new important topic. The purpose of this questionnaire is to inform the teacher of how much prior knowledge students have on a specific subject matter. This will help the teacher figure out an effective starting point for the lesson as well as an appropriate level of instruction. While this strategy is most often used as an introduction to a lesson, it can also be beneficial halfway through and at the end to see what the students have learned. This particular technique can be easily modified to fit any subject matter – history, science, math, English, music, and so on. For example, a question that might be found on a Background Knowledge Probe questionnaire would be: \"Explain what you know about the Louisiana Purchase.\"\n\nThe teacher distributes one red card and one green card to each student. Then, during the lesson while instruction is taking place, students can hold up either card to show how well they understand. If the teacher sees his or her students holding up all green cards, they know to continue their lesson. If the students are holding up red cards, the teacher knows that something was unclear and needs to be discussed further. This type of immediate feedback is helpful for the teacher to see how well students are learning, and it also gives the students an opportunity to engage and take control of their learning. This technique is typically practiced in elementary classrooms, although it can also be effective at the middle school and high school grade levels.\n\nThe Muddiest Point is another general CAT that can be used for any subject in any grade level. When using this technique, the teacher instructs students to briefly state what part of the lesson or assignment was most confusing for them. This allows the teacher to figure out which areas need to be reiterated. Reviewing every area that each student felt was unclear is a lot of work, and teachers may find themselves simply teaching the entire lesson all over again. As an alternative, teachers should focus on the top two or three most common responses. This technique also requires students to learn how to articulate their confusion, a useful skill.\n\nThis method is effective in courses that call for problem-solving. Students determine the nature of the problem and decide on the theory to apply. \n\nThe rationale is to pinpoint issues that can be solved effectively using teaching methods in the classroom. The students must name the technique that suits the problem without solving said concern.\n\nThese questions may be utilized one or two weeks before an examination. The teacher writes broad guidelines about the types of questions for the tests and shares them with students so they can answer at least one or two of these questions expected to appear on the actual exams.\n\nThe teacher formulates brief two up to four items of questionnaires in helping find out opinions of students about issues related to the course.\n\nThis is a fundamental two-dimensional illustration or table. The rectangle is divided into rows and columns to systematize information as well as define relationships. It helps evaluate the students’ recollection of vital course content and skills in organizing information into different categories the teacher supplies.\n\n"}
{"id": "15104065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15104065", "title": "Deen Kemsley", "text": "Deen Kemsley\n\nDeen Kemsley is an accounting professor and a Christian author. He earned a PhD in business and economics from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1995. He then served on the faculty at Columbia Business School from 1995 to 2004, taking a one-year visit to Yale School of Management in 2003. He now teaches at the A.B. Freeman School of Business at Tulane University. In addition to his academic work, Professor Kemsley is the author of Trust in the Lord: Reflections of Jesus Christ (Sweetwater Books).\n\nMBA students, stock analysts, and bond analysts all know Professor Kemsley for his teaching abilities. He earned the Dean's Teaching Award at Columbia Business School in 1998, Columbia University's Singhvi Teaching Award for Scholarship in the Classroom in 1999, and numerous Teacher Honor Roll awards at Tulane University. On Wall Street, he regularly trains analysts for Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers, and other banks.\n\nBusiness professors know Professor Kemsley for his published research on taxes, accounting, and firm value. He has published several articles in top finance and accounting journals, including the \"Journal of Finance\", the \"Journal of Accounting Research\", and the \"Accounting Review\", among others.\n\nHis joint work on taxes, dividends, and debt with Glenn Hubbard (economics), Trevor Harris, and Doron Nissim stirred considerable controversy and has been considered by Congress on several occasions.\n\nProfessor Kemsley also is an author who writes for a broad Christian audience regardless of creed or denomination. Several prominent theologians, scholars, business leaders, and media personalities from a variety of different backgrounds and beliefs have endorsed . \n\nDeen and his wife Kristin are the parents of nine children. They live in Abita Springs, Louisiana.\n\nDeen Kemsley is the author of Trust in the Lord: Reflections of Jesus Christ. Many prominent business leaders and others have endorsed his book. The following review came from Publisher's Weekly:\n\nKemsley, an accounting professor at Tulane University in New Orleans, posits that “the journey to know Christ is the journey to know the deepest, best element of ourselves.” In this brief book, Kemsley draws on personal experiences and anecdotes to demonstrate how he came to know Christ. His experiences are not miraculous or earth-shattering, but ordinary and real: seeing Christ reflected in a newborn, for example, or an act of service. As a father of nine children, many of these acts of service are unseen and unthanked late-night feedings or diaper changes; though they did not seem significant at the time, Kemsley now realizes that such simple deeds mean everything. Although Kemsley is a Mormon and the book is from an LDS publisher, it has a deeply ecumenical tone. The focus throughout is on knowing and loving Christ, not emphasizing denominational differences. Although it lacks the poetic nature of some other memoirish devotional books of this type, such as The Quantity of a Hazelnut, there is a simple honesty to this volume that makes it refreshing and quietly lovely. (Mar.)\n\n"}
{"id": "23773363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23773363", "title": "East Linn Christian Academy", "text": "East Linn Christian Academy\n\nEast Linn Christian Academy is a private PK through 12th Grade Christian school in Lebanon, Oregon, United States, serving the families in Lebanon, Sweet Home, Albany, Corvallis, Linn County and the Willamette Valley.\n\nEast Linn Christian Academy was founded by Harold and Dorothy Grove in 1982. \"Value People\", \"Steward with Integrity\" and \"Transformational Education\" is the schools core values used to shape the schools program and teaching styles. The school originally was at two different locations in Lebanon and Sweet Home. In 2011, the school combined all the grades to one campus in Lebanon Oregon. Since then, the school has increased the number of classes and buildings as needed for the growth of the school. In 2017, the school started fundraising for a new cafeteria and additional classrooms they hope to begin construction by 2019.\n\nEast Linn Christian Academy (ELC) has been accredited by the Association of Christian Schools International since 1982, and by the AdvancEd since 1996. The school meets the requirements for graduation of the Oregon State Department of Education.\n\nThe Academic program schedule follows a traditional, five day a week, 8 period schedule. Consisting of four days of traditional class periods and one day with shorter periods to accommodate for a chapel service (Wednesday mornings). College credit opportunities exist for high school students to earn college credit at institutions of higher education, including Oregon Institute of Technology. ELC has a growing number of concurrent enrollment courses taught on site, including writing, math, anatomy, physiology and business courses. A strong academic support program aids over 25% of our students, STEM and other advanced courses are offered to challenge the top tier students.\n\nThe international student program is open to 6th through 12th grade. ELC has the privilege of serving students from the Philippines, China, Korea, Germany, Hong Kong and Japan. Their vision is to embrace Acts 1:8, Matthew 28:19 and Mark 16:15 by welcoming students from around the world, helping them to grow in English, and becoming more familiar with American tradition and culture. International Students participate in school academic and extra-curricular programs, this provides authentic diversity and global awareness development for the student body which enhances a core value (discipleship) at East Linn Christian Academy. International students are placed with a qualified host family who can provide additional support to them during their intercultural journey. The school provides both short and long stay opportunities, with many students continuing on to graduate from ELC.\n\nEast Linn Christian Academy competes in the Oregon School Activities Association as part of the 2A-3 Central Valley Conference. Middle and high school sports offered are baseball, basketball, cross country, golf, boys soccer, track & field, and volleyball. Elementary students can participate in track & field. The school also hosts a number of community sport camps for all grades from Kinder to 12th grade, which can be found on their online sports page under the sports camp link at.\n\nELC offers a Tuition Assistance Fund to ensure affordable Christian education for our financially diverse community. ELC encourages diversity by designating a portion of the operating budget to be used for financial assistance. The school has a number of fundraisers throughout the year to raise money to help off-set operating cost short-falls, tuition assistance, program and building development.\n"}
{"id": "5216044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5216044", "title": "Education and Youth Corps", "text": "Education and Youth Corps\n\nThe Israeli Education and Youth Corps (, \"Heil HaHinuh VeHaNo'ar\") is the IDF Manpower Directorate corps responsible for the education of soldiers and commanders in Israel's military. It is designed to instruct and develop national values among the troops.\n\nAccording to former Chief Education Officer Avner Shalev, the aims of the education system in the IDF are to increase the motivation and morale of the troops and units. This is achieved by introducing cultural activities into the lives of soldiers, teaching them about the country and its values—both national and universal—as well as by teaching them about the nature of their duties as soldiers and citizens of the state.\n\nThe Education and Youth Corps is divided into two main brigades - the \"Magen\" division and the education division - as well as 6 independent units directly subordinate to the Chief Education Officer:\n\nThe \"Magen\" (an abbreviation for Morot-Hayalot\" (teacher soldiers), Makam\", \"Gadna\" and \"Nahal\"), comprises four IDF education programs:\n\nMihve Alon, a training base for new immigrants not proficient in the Hebrew language, is also subordinate to the \"Magen\" division.\n\nThe education division serves as the professional guide for the other units of the corps, and of the IDF in general. It is divided into 6 branches:\nThe Education and youth training base, or by its name \"Sha'arei Avraham\" (Abraham's gates) was built near the Re'em Junction in the Lachish Valley near Kiryat Mal'akhi.\n\nMany of the soldiers in various roles in the Education Corps get their training in the Youth Education Training Base.\n\nAmong these roles:\n\n\nThe emblem of the Education and Youth Corps is composed of four stripes integrating into one flame.\n\nThree of them (different shades of blue) represent the three different centers of the corps and the fourth (colored white) represents the headquarters of the corps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41732519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41732519", "title": "Edugraphic", "text": "Edugraphic\n\nEducation graphics, or edugraphics, are graphic visual representations of educational information intended to simplify social-cultural content, communication related content, linguistic content, etc. The use of rich visual content improves cognition, as the students comprehension is enhanced when both visual and text-based cues are combined.\n\nEdugraphics have existed since learning manuals began to be used in elementary schools, high schools and universities. These edugraphics, known by the term infographics or \"information graphics\", are used to explain different subjects (geography, history, science, biology...). They were used to illustrate some aspect of the lesson (map of invasions, timelines, internal organs, etc.), and they were drawn or made by computer graphics.\n\nThe term \"edugraphic\" is born from its cousin \"infographic\" which is relatively recent and the result of considerable debate in the design community. The Society for Technical Communication group describes infographics as \"the translation of complex, unorganized or unstructured data into valuable, meaningful information\". Comenius used a visual education with the publication of \"Orbis Pictus\" in 1658.\n\nInfographics made significant developments thanks to the journalistic use old newspapers nowadays infographics are now being used in several media and they serve to condense large amounts of information gathered from data banks that are nowadays easily found on the internet.\n\nThe First International Conference on Graphics Education was held in Alvor, Algarve, Portugal 1993 with the name Edugraphics.\n\nEdugraphics, even though the term has not yet been widely spread, were used first in textbooks in every country. For example, in history textbooks, the use of timelines was highly effective for its power to illustrate several historical information elements in one straight line. Maps showed the population of a country, its social status, etc. The images used were called \"graphics\", \"pie-charts\", \"bar-charts\", \"maps\".\n\nMOOCs will make edugraphics - which are highly adapted for these open courses - necessary.\n\nThe difference between infographics and edugraphics are basically the way contents are treated because they are not data but pedagogical content, like theories, process, rules, (grammar and maths), etc. Infographics may be used in school for pedagogical purposes but are not intended to explain pedagogical facts.\n\nEdugraphics combines 3 basic elements: visual content (icons, images, colors), pedagogical content, and a learning scenario (story).\n\nVisuals are a basic and important element. Basic notions of design should be used to create an edugraphic, for instance how to use colors properly (contrast), how to use fonts meaningfully and how to organize every single element in a canvas.\n\nPedagogical content is the main reason for creating an edugraphic. The contents have to be related to a specific subject for the course. For example, in a French course, if the teacher is explaining the vocabulary of the body (head, mouth, eyes, etc.), instead of listing the vocabulary, a simple edugraphic will use a picture or a drawing of a character's body and each part will be pointed out with arrows. But that is a simple edugraphic. What about explaining the use of an auxiliary verb in French (‘avoir’: to be) to the student? The edugraphic could show illustrations of someone's birthday: \"j'ai 15 ans\", someone who is showing a car as if it were his: \"j'ai une voiture\", or someone who is really cold : \"j'ai froid\".\n\nAs interesting as the content should be, the way it is told or explained to students is often as important as the content. Students are going to engage more if the content is appealing to them.\n\nThey are 5 types of edugraphics: Oneshot subject, timeline, process, gameboard, instructions.\n\nOneshot subject: Edugraphic that puts a simple educational fact into illustration. One single image equals a rule or a notion.\n\nTimeline: When dealing with historical issues, a great way of showing each step in history is through a timeline. It is easy to understand the facts when represented in such a manner.\n\nProcess: Explaining to students how the water cycle works is a perfect example of a process-type edugraphic.\n\nGameboard: Gameboard edugraphics allow teachers to use a model where students can interact. This representation is used to show a certain type of process mixed with timeline elements.\n\nInstructions : An edugraphic that helps students follow simple steps that are well illustrated with icons and images. A sort of Ikea instruction manual but for education.\n"}
{"id": "10541919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10541919", "title": "Engineering Development Trust", "text": "Engineering Development Trust\n\nThe Engineering Development Trust is a UK not for shareholder profit organization, which administers a number of schemes designed to encourage school pupils to have an interest and involvement in science and engineering\n\nThe EDT was established in 1984.\n\nIn September 2017, long standing CEO Gordon Mizner retired from his position to be replace by Julie Feest\n\nIt has a main office situated near the Sir Frederic Osborn School in the east of Welwyn Garden City, not far from the B195. Other regional office locations include Southampton , Plymouth and Glasgow.\n\nIt runs the Go4Set residential courses to link school pupils with companies in the STEM or SET (Science, Engineering and Technology) field. It claims to be the largest provider of STEM enrichment activities for young people in the UK. All of the Engineering Development Trust's schemes are part of the Royal Academy of Engineering's \"BEST\" programme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47137333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47137333", "title": "European Information Technologies Certification", "text": "European Information Technologies Certification\n\nEuropean Information Technologies Certification (EITC) programme is an international professional ICT knowledge and skills certification standard, developed and governed by the EITCI Institute - a non-profit organization based in Brussels, that provides certification of individuals' knowledge and skills in narrow, specialized single-subject areas of ICT such as \"Office software\", \"Computer-aided project management\", \"Online collaboration systems\", \"Raster graphics processing\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5337329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5337329", "title": "FSU Young Scholars Program", "text": "FSU Young Scholars Program\n\nFSU Young Scholars Program (YSP) is a six-week residential science and mathematics summer program for 40 Florida high school students with significant potential for careers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. The program was developed in 1983 and is currently administered by the Office of Science Teaching Activities in the College of Arts and Sciences at Florida State University.\n\nEach young scholar attends a total of three courses in the fields of mathematics, science, and computer programming. The courses are designed specifically for this program—they are neither high school nor college courses.\n\nEach student who attends YSP is assigned an Independent Research Project (IRP) based on his or her interests. Students join the research teams of FSU professors, participating in scientific research for two days each week. The fields of study available range from robotics, molecular biology, chemistry, geology, physics, to zoology. At the conclusion of the program, students present their projects in an academic conference, documenting their findings and explaining their projects to both students and faculty.\n\nThe program is co-directed by Dr. Erica Staehling, Barbara Shoplock, and Teresa Callahan, members of the Office of Science Teaching Activities, Florida State University. Instructional faculty includes Dr. Steve Blumsack, Emeritus Professor of Mathematics; Dr. Dan Oberlin, Professor of Mathematics; Drs. Harrison Prosper and Horst Wahl, Professors of Physics; and Dr. Lloyd Epstein, Professor of Biological Science. Twenty additional Florida State science and engineering faculty members mentor the students in their independent research projects.\n\nYSP admits students who have completed the eleventh grade in a Florida public or private high school. A few exceptionally qualified and mature tenth graders have been selected in past years, though this is quite rare.\n\nAll applicants must have completed Pre-Calculus and maintain at least a 3.0 unweighted GPA to be considered for acceptance. Additionally, students must have scored at the 90th percentile or better in science or mathematics on a nationally standardized exam, such as the SAT, PSAT, ACT, or PLAN. Students are required to submit an application package, including high school transcripts and a letter of recommendation.\n\nSelection is extremely competitive, as there are typically over 200 highly qualified applicants competing for only 40 positions. The majority of past participants graduated in the top ten of their respective high school classes, with over 25% of students entering their senior year ranked first in their class. The average PSAT score of past young scholars was in the 97th percentile in math and 94th percentile in critical reading nationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "38820108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38820108", "title": "Gender gaps in mathematics and reading", "text": "Gender gaps in mathematics and reading\n\nThe gender gaps in mathematics and reading achievement refer to the finding that, on average, the two sexes perform differently in mathematics and reading skills on tests. On average, boys and men exceed in mathematics, while girls and women exceed in reading skills.\n\nThe Programme for International Student Assessment assesses the performance of 15-year-olds in mathematics and reading in OECD and OECD partner countries. The table below lists the scores of the PISA 2009 assessment in mathematics and reading by country, as well as the difference between boys and girls. Gaps in bold font mean that the gender gap is statistically significant (p<0.05). A positive mathematics gap means that boys outperform girls, a negative mathematics gap means that girls outperform boys. A positive reading gap means that girls outperform boys (no country has a negative reading gap). There is a negative correlation between the mathematics and reading gender gaps, that is, nations with a larger mathematics gap have a smaller reading gap and vice versa.\n"}
{"id": "46922078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46922078", "title": "GoUNESCO", "text": "GoUNESCO\n\nGoUNESCO is an umbrella of initiatives that help promote awareness and provide tools for laypersons to engage with heritage. GoUNESCO was created by Ajay Reddy in 2012. It is supported by UNESCO, New Delhi.\n\nGoUNESCO began when Ajay Reddy saw a tweet posted by Pallavi Savant Pallavi Savant of a photo from a World Heritage Site and asked how many people had been to the heritage sites whose photographs were printed at the back of the entry pass. Ajay Reddy realized that he himself was not aware of half the places. He took it upon himself as a challenge and in 2012, he visited 9 out of the then 28 World Heritage Sites in India.\n\nParticipants can choose to participate in different country challenges such as the GoUNESCO India Challenge, GoUNESCO Germany Challenge, GoUNESCO South Africa Challenge. Everyone automatically is enrolled into the lifetime challenges - GoUNESCO Culture Challenge and the GoUNESCO Epic Challenge. A country-specific challenge such as The India Challenge mandates participants to visit all the World Heritage Sites located in India within one calendar year. The first person who visits all the world heritage sites, or the person with the most points at the end of the year, wins the challenge.\n\nThere are 316 intangible cultural heritage elements listed in the UNESCO list of Intangible Cultural Heritage in Need of Urgent Safeguarding and The Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Every participant entering the Cultural Challenge has to experience cultural heritage elements and capture proofs in the form of pictures, videos and personal notes. Every proof of experiencing an intangible cultural heritage element can earn them points and, in turn enable them to learn about the unique aspects of cultures from across the world. The Epic Challenge, like The Culture Challenge is a lifetime challenge – meaning all the proofs from a participant's travel any time will be eligible even if a participant takes a lifetime to visit all the 1,031 Heritage Sites in the world.\nJai Bharathi was the winner of the first ever travel challenge.\n\nGo Heritage Runs began as an offshoot of GoUNESCO in 2014. These fun runs have been organized at famous World Heritage Sites such as Hampi, and Ooty, Udaipur and lesser known heritage sites such as Bidar, Warangal and Badami.\n\nIn January 2014, GoUNESCO started a student program in which students are chosen from throughout the world through an open application process. The 6 month program is held in two sessions every year - January through June and July through December. Once chosen, the students are assigned fun tasks that help them explore and at the same time, build awareness of heritage around them.\n\nIn June 2015, GoUNESCO started #makeheritagefun as a distributed series of events and distributed social media campaigns occurring simultaneously at cities around the world to draw attention to heritage. This initiative by GoUNESCO is yet another way for laypersons to engage with heritage. Experiences from across the world will be collated and amplified through social media using the hashtag #makeheritagefun.\n\n"}
{"id": "50349598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50349598", "title": "Information-Technology Engineers Examination", "text": "Information-Technology Engineers Examination\n\nThe is a group of information technology examinations administered by the Information Technology Promotion Agency, Japan (IPA). The ITEE was introduced in 1969 by Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and it has since changed hands twice, first to the Japan Information Processing Development Corporation (JIPDEC) in 1984, and then to the IPA in 2004. At first there were two examination categories, one for lower-level programmers and one for upper-level programmers, and over the years the number of categories increased to twelve as of 2016.\n\nThe examinations are carried out during the course of one day; candidates sit a morning test and an afternoon test. The morning test assesses the breadth of the candidate's subject-matter knowledge, and the afternoon test assesses the candidate's ability to apply that knowledge. The examinations have a low pass rate: between 1969 and 2010 15.4 million people took them, but only 1.7 million were successful (an average success rate of 11 percent).\n\nThe questions are developed by a committee of experts, and are continually updated to reflect changes in the computer industry. The examination categories are also subject to change based upon industry trends. The ITEE examinations are recognized as qualifications in several Asian countries, including India, Singapore, South Korea, China, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar, Taiwan, and Bangladesh.\n\nThe Information Technology Engineers Examination was founded in 1969 as a national examination by Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI). At first, two categories of examination were offered: Class I Information Technology Engineer, aimed at upper-level programmers, and Class II Information Technology Engineer, aimed at lower level programmers. These two categories were followed in 1971 by the Special Information Technology Engineer Examination.\n\nIn 1984, MITI (then known as the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, or METI) handed over the administration of the examinations to Japan Information Processing Development Corporation (JIPDEC). JIPDEC received most of its funding from METI, and while the two organizations were technically independent, they shared close ties with each other. JIPDEC founded the Japan Information Technology Engineers Examination Center (JITEC) to oversee the actual running of the examinations.\n\nThe 1980s saw the introduction of two new examination categories: the Information Technology Systems Audit Engineer Examination in 1986, and the Online Information Technology Engineer Examination in 1988. The former was aimed at systems auditors, and the latter at network engineers.\n\nThe examination categories underwent a major upheaval in 1994. The Special Information Technology Engineer Examination was expanded into four separate examinations: the Applications Engineer Examination, the Systems Analyst Examination, the Project Manager Examination, and the Systems Administration Engineer Examination. The Online Information Technology Engineer Examination became the Network Specialist Examination, the Information Technology Systems Auditor Examination became the Systems Auditor Examination, and three new categories of examination were introduced: the Production Engineer Examination, the Database Specialist Examination, and the Basic Systems Administrator Examination. These were followed by a further two new categories in 1996: the Advanced Systems Administrator Examination and the Applied Microcontroller Systems Engineer Examination.\n\nThere was another major change to the categories in 2001. The Class I Information Technology Engineer Examination became the Fundamental Information Technology Engineer Examination, and the Class II Information Technology Engineer became the Applied Information Technology Engineer Examination. The Production Engineer Examination was discontinued, and the Information Security Administrator Examination was introduced.\n\nIn 2004, the administration of the examinations changed hands from JIPDEC to the Information-Technology Promotion Agency (IPA). This was followed in 2006 by the introduction of a new examination category, the Technical Engineer (Information Security) Examination.\n\n2009 saw the introduction of a new test, the IT Passport Examination, while others examination categories were consolidated. The Systems Analyst Examination and the Advanced Systems Administrator Examination were merged to form the IT Strategist Examination, and the Technical Engineer (Information Security) Examination and the Information Security Administrator Examination were merged to form the Information Security Specialist Examination.\n\nThe examinations are all carried out in one day, with a morning test and an afternoon tests. The morning test is multiple choice, and aims to test the candidate's breadth of knowledge of the material being examined. The afternoon test tests the candidate's ability to apply that knowledge and with a series of case studies and essay questions. The afternoon test also aims to test the candidate's past experience.\n\nAfter the examinations are over, candidates are allowed to take their question papers home with them, and the answers to some of the questions are made available online. Candidates who pass the examinations receive certificates from METI. These certificates show the date that they were awarded, but they have no expiration date.\n\nBetween 1969 and 2010, 15.4 million people took one of the ITEE examinations, and only 1.7 million people passed, giving an average success rate of 11 percent.\n\n there are 13 examination categories, divided into four levels.\n\nJITEC bases the scope and the difficulty of the exams on the advice of a committee of experts from the computer industry and from academia. This committee investigates the skills currently used by engineers in the relevant examination category, and uses that to base their recommendations on. In this way, the questions in the exams are kept up to date with new and evolving technologies. The knowledge areas that are tested are taken from software engineering, information systems and computer science.\n\nThe examination categories are also constantly reviewed to ensure that they are both relevant to current trends in information technology and to keep them consistent with previous exams.\n\nThe examination questions themselves are also developed by committee consisting of around 400 experts. Subcommittees are put in charge of question development, of checking, and of question selection, and are given independent authority to create questions. New questions are made for each exam, but some questions intended to test the breadth of candidates' knowledge may be altered and reused.\n\nIn addition to its national examination status in Japan, the ITEE is also recognized as a professional credential in several Asian countries, including India, Singapore, South Korea, China, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar, Taiwan, and Bangladesh.\n"}
{"id": "50565099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50565099", "title": "Institute of Scientific Atheism", "text": "Institute of Scientific Atheism\n\nInstitute of Scientific Atheism () is a research organization founded in 1964 in Moscow for the coordination of research in atheism conducted research institutes of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR, universities and institutions of the Ministry of Culture.\n\nThe Institute was established in accordance with the decision of the CPSU Central Committee, within the framework of the party of scientific institutions - Academy of Social Sciences under the CPSU Central Committee.\n\n\nAll the director of the institute are doctors of Philosophy science.\n\nThe institute conducted a comprehensive study of the problems of scientific atheism and the history of religion, postgraduate study. Employees of the institute published their works in the magazine \"Problems of Philosophy\", \"Science and Religion\" (). In addition, the Institute published its own book \"Questions of scientific atheism\" () in volume from 17 to 25 printed pages, is published twice a year with a circulation of 20 thousand copies on average. The publications in this edition brought Soviet and foreign scientists, party functionaries, propagandists of atheism.\n\nThe Institute was closed with the collapse of the USSR in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32961323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32961323", "title": "John Boylan (Canadian actor)", "text": "John Boylan (Canadian actor)\n\nJohn Boylan is a Canadian film and television actor, recently best known for his supporting roles as Gary Strange in \"Being Erica\", Deputy Police Chief Talbot in \"Blue Murder\" and Bishop Richard Cushing in \"The Kennedys\".\n\nBoylan attended the National Theatre School of Canada.\n\nHe has also appeared in the television series \"The Hitchhiker\", \"Road to Avonlea\", \"Side Effects\", \"North of 60\", \"\", \"The City\", \"Instant Star\", \"The Newsroom\" and \"Queer as Folk\", and the films \"Clearcut\", \"Us Two\", \"To Catch a Killer\", \"Time to Say Goodbye?\" and \"The Path to 9/11\".\n\nBoylan works primarily as an acting teacher at Toronto, Ontario's Centre for the Arts, and has also taught acting at Ryerson University, George Brown College, New York University, the University of Minnesota, the Yale School of Drama and York University.\n\nHe is the founder and Director of Toronto's Centre for the Arts. A graduate of Canada's National Theatre School, recent film and television credits include The Story of Luke, The Don Cherry Story, The Kennedys, and Servitude.\n\n"}
{"id": "3322827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3322827", "title": "John Hejduk", "text": "John Hejduk\n\nJohn Quentin Hejduk (19 July 1929 – 3 July 2000) was an American architect, artist and educator of Czech origin who spent much of his life in New York City, United States. Hejduk is noted for having had a profound interest in the fundamental issues of shape, organization, representation, and reciprocity.\n\nHejduk studied at the Cooper Union School of Art and Architecture, the University of Cincinnati, and the Harvard Graduate School of Design. He worked in several offices in New York including that of I. M. Pei and Partners and the office of A.M. Kinney and Associates. He established his own practice in New York City in 1965.\n\nHejduk was Professor of Architecture at The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, School of Architecture from 1964 to 2000 and Dean of the School of Architecture from 1975 to 2000. His arrival including the cooperation of many other influential professors (including Raimund Abraham, Ricardo Scofidio, Peter Eisenman, Charles Gwathmey, Diana Agrest, Diane Lewis, Elizabeth Diller, David Shapiro, Don Wall and many others) transformed the practice and critical thought of architecture in ways that might be compared to Ludwig Mies Van Der Rohe's transformation of the Armour Institute into the Illinois Institute of Technology.\n\nHis early work and curriculum grew from a set of exercises exploring cubes, grids, and frames, through an examination of square grids placed within diagonal containers set against an occasional curving wall, towards a series of experiments with flat planes and curved masses in various combinations and colors. To aid his research he was awarded a grant from the Graham Foundation in 1967. Eventually, John Hejduk's \"hard-line\" modernist space-making exercises, heavily influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright and Ludwig Mies Van Der Rohe, moved away from his interests in favor of free-hand \"figure/objects\" influenced by mythology and spirituality, clearly expressing the nature of his poetry. The relationship between Hejduk's shape/objects and their surroundings is a controversial subject, raising questions similar to those raised by the early houses of Peter Eisenman.\n\nThe architectural historian K. Michael Hays has described Hejduk's architecture as one of \"Encounter\", describing Hejduk's objects as seeming \"impossibly, to be aware of us, to address us. And yet we see not the gratifying reflection of ourselves we had hoped for but another thing, looking back at us, watching us, placing us\", articulating Hejduk's work from a post-modern Lacanian perspective as more \"literary\" than that of his peers. \n\nHejduk is associated with several schools, including the New York Five (with architects Peter Eisenman, Richard Meier, Michael Graves, and Charles Gwathmey) whose early works are described in \"Five Architects\" (1973), and the Texas Rangers, a group of innovative architects and professors at the Texas School of Architecture, Austin, whose other well-known participants include Colin Rowe and Werner Seligmann.\n\nContemporary theorists, researchers, and academics publishing work and research by and about John Hejduk include K. Michael Hays, Mark Linder, R.E. Somol, Anthony Vidler and Renata Hejduk.\n\nA large portion of his work is archived at the Canadian Centre for Architecture in Montreal, Quebec.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12811496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12811496", "title": "John W. Gowdy", "text": "John W. Gowdy\n\nJohn W. Gowdy (Chinese: 高智約翰; Pinyin: \"Gāozhì Yuēhàn\"; Foochow Romanized: \"Gŏ̤-dé Iók-hâng\"; 7 December 1869 – 1963) was a Scottish American bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church and The Methodist Church, elected in 1930. He also distinguished himself as a missionary, an educator, and as a college and university president.\n\nJohn was born in Glasgow, Scotland, the son of Joseph and Margaret Jane (née Graham) Gowdy. John married Elizabeth Thomspon 1 July 1902.\n\nJohn graduated in 1893 from the Tilton Seminary in Tilton, New Hampshire. He then earned the A.B. degree in 1897 from Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut. He graduated from Drew Theological Seminary in 1902 with the B.D. degree. He then earned the M.A. degree in 1915 from Columbia University. Baker University awarded him the honorary degree D.D. in 1909. Wesleyan did as well in 1914. Rev. Gowdy was also a member of the honorary fraternity Psi Upsilon.\n\nJohn Gowdy served as a teacher at the Tilton School in Tilton, New Hampshire, 1897-99. Following seminary graduation, he was ordained in the New Hampshire Annual Conference of the M.E. Church. He was appointed a Missionary Teacher at the Anglo-Chinese College in Foochow, China, serving in this position 1902-04. He also was a Class Leader in the Heavenly Rest Methodist Church in the Foochow Annual Conference. The Rev. Gowdy then became President of the Anglo-Chinese College in 1904, serving until 1923. He became President of the Fukien Christian University in 1923, serving there until 1927. He also served as a trustee of both the Anglo-Chinese College, of Union Normal School in Foochow, and of the Tilton School in New Hampshire. He also served on the Boards of Managers of both Anglo-Chinese and of Fukien.\n\nJohn W. Gowdy was elected a bishop by the 1930 meeting of the China Central Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church. He served as a bishop in this Central Conference until 1941. As a bishop, he was, of course, a participant in M.E. General Conferences in 1932 and 1936, the Uniting Conference of Methodism in 1939, and Methodist General Conferences in 1940 and 1944.\n\nBishop Gowdy retired in 1941. He made his retirement home at 378 Victoria Ave., Winter Park, Florida. He enjoyed history as a hobby and golf as a sport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9067335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9067335", "title": "Krisztina Téri Iskola", "text": "Krisztina Téri Iskola\n\nKrisztina Téri Iskola (Krisztina Square School) a 220-year-old historic school in the I. district of Budapest, Krisztinaváros, Hungary (in 2007).\n\n\"The school started after vintage in 1787\". (historic document Hofecker, Ferencz 1887)\n\n1783 Krisztinaváros quarter had 730 inhabitants. By such a number of inhabitants the authority of Buda city found it necessary to provide for a school, in 1787 \"after the vintage it started the normal education\". (Quotation by Ferencz Hofecker 1887).\n\nThe first school building was a pub building on the site of present 1–3 Gellérthegy Street. The first teacher of Krisztinaváros was Ferenc Zonner. The school had been running in this building until 1810.\n\n1810 The school was moved into a new building built in 1772 on the site of the present 63. Krisztina Boulevard.\n\n1883 The present building was built on the ground enlarged towards the church. In 1883 education started in the school building which is still existing.\n\n1887 The one hundredth anniversary of the school. Ferencz Hofecker 1887, Budapest Hundred-year-old History of the school of Krisztinaváros.\n\n1945 In January 1945 the Tabán school in the Czakó Street was destroyed by a bomb. The inhabitants of Naphegy attended the school on Krisztina Square.\n\n\"… we placed our cannons in firing position on the highest part of Tabán, the Czakó Street was right behind us . … The troops took cover in the uninhabited villas in Czakó Street and\" put our unlucky, exhausted horses into the garden. … We placed our observation post a little bit lower, into the school Tabán. … my commander told me he would replace the observation post to the house number 2 in Hegyalja Street because the school was striking too much, it could be bombed. He told us we would shoot the northern corner of the Margaret island over the castle area during the crossing trial of the Soviets. … In the meantime we learned that the school of Tabán, where we had our previous observation post, was hit by a chain-bomb, everybody died in the cellar. The Russians haven't got such large bombs, so it was clear tc that the attack was executed by the English.\" (history, see also Naphegy, Tabán, Krisztinaváros)\n\nBetween 1945 and 1958 instead of the demolished Tabán school, the inhabitants of Naphegy attended the school on Krisztina Square. In August 1958 the school in Lisznyai Street was completed on Naphegy, right near the former Tabán school.\n\n1955 The outside renovation of the main facade of the building on Krisztina Square, the remains of the war, 1945 disappear.\n\n1958 Larger modifications inside the building on Krisztina Square.\n\n1958 In August 1958 the construction of the school in Lisznyai Street was completed. The inhabitants of Naphegy got an own school. \n\nThe education in Lisznyai began in September 1958 with 7 classes of elementary school and classes of secondary school.\n\n1970 – Central heating was laid into the school on Krisztina Square. The laboratories of Biology, Geology and practical teaching were formed.\n\n1987 – The two hundredth anniversary of the school. The album of the two hundredth anniversary 1787–1987, Mária Ákosné Jobb headmaster.\n\n1993 – Szent Gellért school, founded by the perish of Krisztinavárosi Havasboldogasszony.\n\n1997 – The elementary school of eight classes was enlarged with a secondary school of four classes.\n\n2007 – The 220th anniversary of the school. The beginning of the Wikipédia website of the school on 2 January 2007.\n\n\nOn the picture 1951/52 the traces of World War II, 1945. Renew first in 1955, 10 years after war.\n\n200 years of history (1787–1987).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "101718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101718", "title": "Lekotek", "text": "Lekotek\n\nLekotek is an international program to lend Assistive Technology, toys and expertise to disabled children. The first lekotek opened in 1963 in Stockholm, Sweden. From there the concept spread to other Scandinavian countries, Europe and the rest of the world. For example, there are over 50 lekoteks in the United States. The first American lekotek opened in Evanston, Illinois in 1980. The first US lekoteks were founded by Sally DeVencentis and Sharon Draznin.\n\nThe name is a mix of the Swedish root word “lek,” meaning toy or play, and the Greek suffix “tek” that connotes library.\n\nThe underlying concept is that early intervention through play with adapted toys and technology can teach disabled children to deal with the \"normal\" world. Some of theoretical basis for the lekotek movement comes from work done by a British psychologist, Elizabeth Newson. Her book \"Toys and Playthings, \" () discusses the effect of play on child development.\n\nIn November 2005, the National Lekotek Center launched their new AblePlay website at www.AblePlay.org providing access to authoritative ratings and detailed reviews from National Lekotek professionals on loads of toys and other play products. Lekotek's unique evaluation process yields product information categorized by disability category to further simplify the toy-buying experience. Parents and professionals can benefit from insightful play ideas for each toy, as well as from the online forums to allow them to share experiences and provide personal advice to each other. Launching AblePlay was an important step in realizing Lekotek's goal to be the central source of information and support services involving toys and play for kids with special needs. National Lekotek is a division of Anixter Center which provides services to more than 5,000 adults and children with disabilities through 70 programs at 35 locations annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "36832132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36832132", "title": "Maktab-e Tawhid", "text": "Maktab-e Tawhid\n\nMaktab-e Tawhid (also Maktab-e Tawhīd) was a Shi'i seminary for women, established in Qom, Iran's clerical center in 1975, as a wing of the Haghani school. \n\nThe founding of the seminary followed similar institutions in Qom, Fasa, Shiraz and Isfahan. In Fasa, Maktab-e Fatema was opened in 1961, Maktab-e Zahra in Shiraz in 1964, Maktab-e Fatimah in Isfahan in 1965, in Tehran, Zahra-i Athar was opened in 1966, and in Mashhad, Fatemeh Khamooshi (d. 2010) opened Madrase-ye ‘Elmīyya Narges in the same year.\n\nIronically, it took a number more years until finally, a women's seminary was established in Qom. Mohammad Kazem Shariatmadari added a women's section to his hawza Dar al-Tabligh, called Dar al-Zahra in 1973.\n\nPartially in order to rival the women's section of the Dar al-Tabligh school, Ayatollah Qoddusi, the director of the Haghani school, set up Maktab-e Tawhid. In its first year, the girl's madrasa had thirty students and five female teachers. These included Monir Gorjih, Masumeh Golgiri, and Zohreh Sefati, who had come to Qom from Abadan earlier in the decade in search of a hawza education. \n\nAmong the male lecturers at Maktab-e Tawhid were Sheikh Nematollah Salehi Najafabadi, the author of “Shahid-e Javid,” and Morteza Haeri, the son of Sheikh Abdul-Karim Ha'eri Yazdi. Morteza Ha'eri taught akhlāq at the maktab.\n\nAfter the 1979 revolution, Maktab-e Tawhid was incorporated together with other women's seminaries in Qom into the larger school, Jamiat al-Zahra.\n"}
{"id": "2614319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2614319", "title": "Malta College of Arts, Science and Technology", "text": "Malta College of Arts, Science and Technology\n\nThe Malta College of Arts, Science and Technology (MCAST) () is a vocational education and training institution in Malta.\n\nEstablished in 2001, MCAST offers 180 full-time and over 300 part-time vocational courses ranging from certificates to Master degrees (MQF Level 1 to Level 7).\n\nThe following institutes make up MCAST:\n\n"}
{"id": "54273152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54273152", "title": "Mary Augustine Barber", "text": "Mary Augustine Barber\n\nJerusha Booth Barber, in religion, Sister Mary Augustine (née Jerusha Booth; also Mrs. Jerusha Barber; Sister Mary Austin; Sister May Augustin; 1789 - January 1, 1860) was a 19th-century American educator and Visitation sister. She entered the Georgetown Visitation Convent in 1818, with her husband entering the Jesuits. She founded a convent of visitation in Kaskaskia, Illinois, in 1836, remaining there till 1844. She taught in a convent in St. Louis, Missouri, from 1844 till 1848, and in Mobile, Alabama, until the time of her death. Her only son, Samuel, became a Jesuit, and her four daughters entered the convent.\n\nBarber was born in Newton, Connecticut, in 1789. Her parents were pious Protestants, strict members of their church.\n\nShe married Virgil Horace Barber on September 20, 1807, when she was 19 and he was about 25. The husband and wife did not precipitately embrace the Catholic religion, but the husband thought Protestantism too superficial, too recent, too worldly and too inconsistent. He had been an Episcopalian clergyman and principal of their academy in Fairfield, New York. He determined to become a Roman Catholic and moved to New York where his mentor, Benedict Joseph Fenwick, received his family into the Catholic Church in 1816. Jerusha was 28 and they had five children: Mary (b. 1810); Abigail (b. 1811); Susan (b. 1813); Samuel (b. 1814); and Josephine (b. 1816). For support they opened a school, but after eight months both determined to join the religious life and, under Fenwick's direction, moved to Georgetown in Washington, D.C. \n\nIn Washington, D.C., the couple went through the process of separation. Jerusha and her children were placed in a convent while the husband went to Rome to study towards ordination. In 1818 Jerusha entered the Visitation convent of Georgetown which also housed her three eldest daughters, while the baby, Josephine, was placed in the home of Fenwick's mother. When she thought she was pregnant, she left the community for a short period, but soon returned. On February 23, 1820, husband and wife took their religious vows, she as Sister Mary Augustine. \n\nMary was a woman of superior education, and the convent and school progressed rapidly during her residence. In 1836 she founded a visitation convent in Kaskaskia, Illinois, where she remained until 1844. She was especially successful in training the younger sisters to be accomplished teachers, and was engaged in this occupation in the convent of St. Louis from 1844 till 1848, and in Mobile up to the time of her death. She died in Summerville, near Mobile, in 1860. Their only son, Samuel, became a Jesuit, and their four daughters entered the Ursuline convent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49350872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49350872", "title": "National Coding Week", "text": "National Coding Week\n\nNational Coding Week was founded by former headteacher Richard Rolfe and tech entrepreneur Jordan Love, who was appointed EU Code Week Ambassador for the UK. It took place during the week commencing September 21, 2014 with the aim of helping adults to improve their digital literacy in order to fill the growing skills gap.\n\nThe week is run by volunteers in hubs, libraries, schools, businesses and NGOs with the intention of supporting adults to learn digital skills including coding. Richard Rolfe and Jordan Love were inspired to create the week when they trained a group of unemployed people in coding skills which eventually led to many of them getting jobs. The EU predicts a significant number of digital jobs being unfilled by 2020 due to a skills shortage. Richard and Jordan saw an opportunity to try to inspire adults to gain the skills necessary to fill the gap.\n\nIn 2015 National Coding Week ran from 21 September and spread beyond the UK. The week gained coverage and support in the EU and in the US. \nA number of prominent business leaders offered support to National Coding Week including Brian Doll VP of GitHub, Prince Andrew, Congressman Kevin McCarthy and \nTim Lovejoy.\n\nBoris Johnson the Mayor of London stated that “Coding is a language that is increasingly important for both young people and adults to understand, but it can be an intimidating prospect. National Coding Week will help to make whole generations of Brits more comfortable with coding, allowing them to embrace the business opportunities of the future.”. One of the aims of the week was to also encourage women to get involved in coding Martha Lane Fox’s drive to bridge the gender gap in tech gave prominence to the week. Over 100 events and 1000 people took part in 2015. Events occurred all over Wales in libraries and hubs and was supported by WEA YMCA Community College Cymru and the Welsh Government\n\nSpeaking at the launch event in Cardiff Central Library Hub’s new digital floor, the Deputy Minister for Culture, Sport and Tourism, Ken Skates, said “Learning new skills such as coding can open new doors to people. We are increasingly moving into an online world and it is important that people do not miss out on opportunities to develop these skills, which have the potential to create employment opportunities. I’m delighted to launch the National Coding Week in Wales and am pleased this is taking place in a library, which is the ideal place to get support to learn new skills. It’s particularly good to launch it in the new digital floor of Cardiff Central Library, which received a grant from the Welsh Government towards its modernisation.”\n\nIn Scotland Polly Purvis head of ScotlandIS outlined Scottish plans for future tech growth and how National Coding Week fitted in. Free coding lessons for adults were also offered all over Scotland.\n\nIn England, Schools, Hubs, Businesses and libraries supported the week.\n\nIn November 2015 Richard and Jordan won the CIPD Award for Diversity and Inclusion Strategy for their efforts in inspiring adults from all backgrounds to gain digital skills.\n\nNational Coding Week 2016 will run from 19 September to 25 September in the United States, UK and Australia.\n"}
{"id": "20950026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20950026", "title": "Nikolai Fadeyechev", "text": "Nikolai Fadeyechev\n\nNikolai Fadeyechev () is a Russian ballet dancer and teacher, People's Artist of the USSR.\n\nNikolai Fadeyechev, born 27 January 1933 in Moscow, is a retired dancer and currently a teacher and répétiteur of the Bolshoi Ballet. In 1952 he graduated from the Moscow Ballet School, where he had studied with Alexander Rudenko, and joined the Bolshoi Theatre, where he performed many principal roles. He danced alongside some of the company's great ballerinas, including Galina Ulanova in \"Giselle\" and \"Les Sylphides\", and was a regular partner with Maya Plisetskaya, Raisa Struchkova, Nina Timofeeva, , Natalia Bessmertnova, Ekaterina Maximova and Ludmila Semenyaka. After retiring from the stage in 1977, he became one of the most important teachers and répétiteurs of the Bolshoi Theatre. His students have included Nikolay Tsiskaridze, , Sergei Filin, Ruslan Skvortsov and Artem Ovcharenko.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40710039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40710039", "title": "Olufemi Majekodunmi", "text": "Olufemi Majekodunmi\n\nOlufemi Adetokunbo Majekodunmi (born 1 May 1940) is a British-Nigerian architect.\n\nOlufemi was born on 1 May 1940 in London, England to Moses Majekodunmi and Tomi Agbebi.\nHowever, he grew up in Nigeria and attended St Gregory's College, Lagos He later returned to the United Kingdom to study architecture at the Glasgow School, Kingston College of Art (now Kingston University) and graduated in 1966.\n\nAfter graduation, Femi worked for some years with firms in Washington, D.C. Afterwards, he returned to Nigeria and worked with Godwin and Hopwood Architects, Lagos before establishing his architectural firm, then Femi Majekodunmi Associates, now FMA Architects Ltd, in Nigeria in 1973. The firm has grown to a large practice, with branch locations in Botswana and South Africa. \nHe has worked with various architectural organizations to advance the practice of architecture in countries across Africa. He has been closely associated with many architectural organizations. He was the first president of the Nigerian Institute of Architects, the first secretary of the African Union of Architects and a past president of the International Union of Architects from 1990 to 1993.\nHe is a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Architects and a member of the Royal Institute of British Architects. He has been Juror for several competitions including WAN Awards for World Architecture. He is an Associate Professor of Architecture at the University of Lagos.\n\nHe is married to Victoria Majekodunmi. They have four children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31657115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31657115", "title": "Oral History of British Science", "text": "Oral History of British Science\n\nAn Oral History of British Science is an oral history project conducted by National Life Stories at the British Library. The project began in 2009 with funding from the Arcadia Fund, the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 and a number of other private donors and has grown into a major archive of in-depth, life story audio interviews with figures from the history of science and engineering in Britain.\n\nAn Oral History of British Science is collecting 200 audio interviews, each 8 to 15 hours in length, with scientists, engineers and others linked with science and technology in Britain, as well as shorter on-location video recordings. The project is split into four themed strands: Made in Britain, A Changing Planet, Cosmologies and Biomedicine. Importantly, the project seeks to identify lesser-heard voices, for example women scientists, laboratory technicians, and engineers. The project Advisory Committee, which meets at least three times a year to discuss progress and to advise on future direction, comprises Dr Jon Agar, Lord Alec Broers, Dr Tilly Blyth, Georgina Ferry, Professor Dame Julia Higgins, Dr Maja Kominko, Sir Harry Kroto, John Lynch, Professor Chris Rapley and Dr Simone Turchetti.\n\nAn Oral History of British Science is conducted by National Life Stories at the British Library, and forms part of a wider institutional initiative to better document contemporary history of science and technology through the addition of audio visual sources as well as written sources. National Life Stories, a charitable trust and limited company within the British Library, was established by Paul Thompson (oral historian) and Jennifer Wingate in 1987 to capture the life stories of British people whose experiences would not otherwise be recorded. Since then NLS has recorded over 2,200 interviews totalling some 22,000 hours, all of them accessible at the British Library. Other NLS projects focus on the lives of visual artists, authors, craftspeople, architects, those involved in the UK water industry, and key individuals connected to social welfare, social policy and charity work. Previous NLS projects focused on the British fashion industry, the post office, the steel and oil industries, Jewish experiences in Britain, the British press, and those involved in the UK food industry, from production to consumption.\n\nDespite a significant oral history tradition in science studies in other countries, the field in Britain is not well developed. In April 2005 NLS hosted an exploratory roundtable conference at the British Library. Chaired by Sir Nicholas Goodison, ‘Personal Testimonies of Contemporary Science, Technology and Medicine’ was attended by representatives of the UK’s leading history of science archives and libraries, and distinguished researchers. The meeting concluded that very few scientific testimonies were held collectively and that a major programme of recording needed to be initiated to capture rich personal memory not available in any printed or manuscript sources. Following this, NLS commissioned a mapping and scoping study, 'The Oral History of Science in Britain: A Scoping Study'. The study confirmed that there were currently very few oral history collections in Britain looking specifically at professionals working in science and technology; that those projects that were developed in the past were short-lived and narrow in scope; and that many of these recordings are not properly archived or publicly accessible. The scoping study found one exception, which was that the history of medicine seemed to be better documented through oral history than other fields of science and technology.\n\nAn Oral History of British Science follows the biographical, or life story, oral history approach with each audio interview averaging 8 to 15 hours in length. This biographical approach is valuable for researchers seeking a more rounded view of an individual and their contribution. The interviews cover the individual’s career history, education, background and family.\n\nIn addition to the life story audio interviews a number of supplementary, follow-up video interviews are being conducted; these focus on particular instrumentation, specific geographical settings or key turning points in a scientist’s career. Edited extracts from the videos are being made available via the British Library YouTube Channel. The Vega Science Trust have conducted similar interviews since 1997; they provide access to short interviews with scientists, as well as access to science documentaries, lectures and educational videos, via their website and YouTube channel.\n\nAll interviews are catalogued on the Sound and Moving Image Catalogue. Interviews which are complete and open are accessible onsite at the Library in St Pancras, London and in Boston Spa, Yorkshire via the Library’s Listening & Viewing Service. Interviews which are open are also made accessible via the Archival Sound Recordings website under the ‘Oral history of British science’ content package.\n\n‘A Changing Planet’ considers the advancement of the earth system sciences in the light of recent concerns associated with environmental and climate change. Two chief points are explored: how, when and why the Earth has become a subject of scientific investigation; and how this investigation has been pivotal to the rise of concerns about the impact of humans on the environments. Those interviewed for the strand are those involved in the earth sciences: climatologists, meteorologists, geologists, geophysicists, geochemists, ecologists, glaciologists and oceanographers.\n\n‘Made in Britain’ examines important discoveries in science and technology that have led to new industrial applications. The strand covers computing, aerospace engineering, some applied sciences (such as condensed matter physics) as well as engineering fields (chemical, electrical, civil and structural). The title refers to the fact that an analysis of these breakthroughs in science should also be looked at as something that has boosted national pride, while arising from research conducted by experts of different ethnic backgrounds.\n\n‘Biomedicine’ aims to investigate the transformations that have typified biomedicine, paying special attention to how new technologies have changed medical practices and provided a new understanding of biological objects. This strand investigates the industrialisation of the processes of treatment and cure, as well as the idea that these processes can be engineered. Advances in genetic engineering are central to this study, especially in relation to the rise of ‘big Pharma’. This strand is currently unfunded.\n\n‘Cosmologies’ considers new systems of thought that have emerged in correspondence with the development of a number of theoretical fields: mathematics, mathematical physics, cosmology, astronomy, statistics, and high-energy physics. This strand is currently unfunded.\n\nInterviewed for ‘A Changing Planet’:\n\nInterviewed for ‘Made in Britain’:\n\nInterviewed under ‘Biomedicine’:\n\n"}
{"id": "11865437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11865437", "title": "Pardes Institute of Jewish Studies", "text": "Pardes Institute of Jewish Studies\n\nPardes Institute of Jewish Studies is an open, co-ed and non-denominational institute of Jewish learning founded in 1972. It is located in Jerusalem's Talpiot neighborhood, with programs worldwide. Students encounter and grapple with classic texts and traditions of Judaism, while exploring their relevance to today’s most pressing issues.\n\nRabbi Leon Morris is the President of Pardes. Dr. David I. Bernstein is the Dean. Many faculty members contribute to the weekly podcasts which Pardes produces through its online learning channel Elmad . The podcasts can be listened to directly on Elmad or through Itunes, Stitcher or other podcast applications. \n\nPardes programs include:\n\nPardes partners include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33422162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33422162", "title": "Practi-Quest", "text": "Practi-Quest\n\nPracti-Quest is an edu-tainment website that provides evidence based online computer simulations in the area of bullying prevention and social skills promotion. Activities include online Choose your own adventure type activities for students. Content is based on psychology research by Dr. Debra Pepler of York University (Ontario, Canada) and Dr. Wendy Craig of Queen's University (Ontario, Canada).\n\n"}
{"id": "218672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218672", "title": "ProQuest", "text": "ProQuest\n\nProQuest LLC is an Ann Arbor, Michigan-based global information-content and technology company, founded in 1938 as University Microfilms by Eugene B. Power. ProQuest provides applications and products for libraries. Its resources and tools support research and learning, publishing and dissemination, and the acquisition, management and discovery of library collections.\n\nFrom its founding as a producer of microfilm products and then as an electronic publisher, the company has grown through acquisitions. Today, the company provides tools for discovery and citation management and platforms that allow library users to discover, manage, use and share research gained from authoritative content. \n\nTotal content, including dissertations and theses, ebooks, newspapers, periodicals, historical collections, governmental and cultural archives and other aggregated databases is estimated at over 125 billion digital pages. \n\nContent is accessed most commonly through library Internet gateways. The current chief executive officer is Matti Shem Tov. ProQuest is part of Cambridge Information Group.\n\nProQuest was founded as a microfilm publisher. It began publishing doctoral dissertations in 1939, has published more than 3 million searchable dissertations and theses, and is designated as an offsite digital archive for the United States Library of Congress. The company's scholarly content includes dissertations and theses, primary source material, ebooks, scholarly journals, historical and current newspapers and periodicals, data sources, and other content of interest to researchers. ProQuest Video Preservation and Discovery Service, allows libraries to preserve and provide access to their proprietary audio and video collections.\n\nIn May 2014, ProQuest LLC also operated businesses under the following names:\n\n\nEugene Power, a 1930 M.B.A. graduate of the University of Michigan, founded the company as University Microfilms in 1938, preserving works from the British Museum on microfilm. By June 1938, Power worked in two rented rooms from a downtown Ann Arbor funeral parlor, specializing in microphotography to preserve library collections. In his autobiography \"Edition of One\", Power details the development of the company, including how University Microfilms assisted the OSS during World War II. This work mainly involved filming maps and European newspapers so they could be shipped back and forth overseas more cheaply and discreetly.\n\nPower also noticed a niche market in dissertations publishing. Students were often forced to publish their own works in order to finish their doctoral degree. Dissertations could be published more cheaply as microfilm than as books. ProQuest still publishes so many dissertations that its Dissertations and Theses collection (formerly called Digital Dissertations) has been declared the official U.S. off-site repository of the Library of Congress.\n\nThe idea of universal adoption of microfilm publication of doctoral dissertations was furthered considerably by two articles researched and written by a then recent recipient of the doctorate in History at Stanford University. Vaughn Davis Bornet seized on the idea and published \"Doctoral Dissertations and the Stream of Scholarship\" and \"Microfilm Publication of Doctoral Dissertations\".\n\nAs the dissertations market grew, the company expanded into filming newspapers and periodicals. The company's main newspaper database is ProQuest NewsStand.\n\nXerox owned the company for a time in the 1970s and 1980s; the name of the company changed several times in this period, from University Microfilms to Xerox University Microfilms, to University Microfilms International, then shortened to UMI. In 1985 it was purchased from Xerox by Bell & Howell.\n\nIn the 1980s, UMI began producing CD-ROMs that stored databases of periodicals abstracts and indexes. At a time when modem connections were slow and expensive, it was more efficient to mail database CD-ROMs regularly to subscribing libraries, who installed the discs on dedicated PCs. The ProQuest brand name was first used for databases on CD-ROM. An online service called ProQuest Direct was launched in 1995; its name was later shortened to just ProQuest. The bibliographic databases are mainly sold to schools, universities and libraries.\n\nIn 1998, the company announced the \"Digital Vault Initiative\", purported to include 5.5 billion images digitized from UMI microfilm, including some of the best existing copies of major newspapers dating back 100 to 150 years, and Early English books dating back to the 15th century. While work continues to digitize the contents of the microfilm vault, ProQuest is already providing navigation of 125 billion digital pages, including nearly 20 million pages of newspaper content dating from pre-Revolutionary War America.\n\nIn 1999, the company name changed to Bell & Howell Information and Learning, and then in 2001 to ProQuest Information and Learning; Bell & Howell renamed itself the ProQuest Company.\n\nAlso in 1999, the company acquired Chadwyck-Healey, a one-time microfilm publishing company that was one of the first to produce full-text CD-ROM databases. This acquisition gave Proquest ownership of a 100+ person publishing operation based in Cambridge, England and became the basis for a substantial overseas expansion.\n\nDuring the 2000–2004 fiscal years, as well as the first three quarters of the 2005 fiscal year, ProQuest systematically overstated its net income. Cumulatively, pre-tax profits were overstated by 129.9 million dollars (or about 31 percent). In 2008, Voyager Learning Company and ProQuest's CFO (from the time of the earnings overstatements) settled SEC \"charges without admitting or denying the allegations of the SEC's complaint\".\n\nIn 2001 Proquest acquired Norman Ross Publishing, a small New York based microfilm publisher.\n\nIn 2002 ProQuest acquired bigchalk.com, a company founded in 1999 with the combined assets of ProQuest's K-12 division and Infonautics Inc.'s K-12 business..\n\nIn 2004, ProQuest Information and Learning acquired Seattle start-up Serials Solutions, a venture providing access management and search services for content hosted by other companies.\n\nAlso in 2004, the company acquired Copley Publishing Group.\n\nIn 2006, ProQuest Company, then the parent company of ProQuest Information and Learning, sold it to Cambridge Information Group, owner of R.R. Bowker. From the time of this sale, this article follows the history of ProQuest Information and Learning, not ProQuest Company. (ProQuest Company subsequently renamed itself to Voyager Learning Company, and later became part of Cambium Learning Group.)\n\nIn 2007, ProQuest Information and Learning was merged with CSA to form ProQuest CSA. Later that year it was renamed ProQuest LLC.\n\nIn 2008, ProQuest LLC acquired complete ownership of RefWorks, a web-based citation manager of which it had been part owner since 2001. RefWorks was merged with ProQuest's existing COS business to form RefWorks/COS.\n\nAlso in 2008, ProQuest acquired Dialog, a major online database firm, from Thomson Reuters.\n\nIn 2010, ProQuest acquired two properties from LexisNexis, Congressional Information Service (CIS) and University Publications of America (UPA). CIS produced one of the world's most exhaustive online collections of legislative content and highly respected statistical works, while UPA included deep historical content sets. The acquisition included digital products and an expansive microfilm vault that would leverage ProQuest's strength in conversion from film to searchable electronic formats.\n\nIn 2011, ProQuest acquired Ebrary, an online digital library of full texts of over 170,000 scholarly e-books. In 2013, ProQuest acquired Ebook Library (EBL), with plans to combine ebrary and EBL into a single e-book platform.\nIn 2014, ProQuest acquired Pi2 Solutions, a privately owned company specializing in Drug Safety Triager (DST) & Product Literature Database (PLD) systems for the biopharmaceutical industry. The company aligned Pi2 Solutions with its ProQuest Dialog corporate information service.\n\nIn 2015, ProQuest acquired SiPX and Coutts Information Services, including the MyiLibrary platform and the Online Acquisitions and Selection Information System (OASIS).\n\nIn October 2015, ProQuest acquired Ex Libris. It was to merge the Workflow Solutions division of ProQuest, which included the former Serials Solutions, into Ex Libris, with the enlarged entity to be named \"Ex Libris, a ProQuest Company\".\n\nIn June 2016, ProQuest acquired Alexander Street Press, a provider of streaming videos and ebooks.\n\nAmong the products the company sells to clients such as public and research libraries are:\n"}
{"id": "23301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23301", "title": "Project Gutenberg", "text": "Project Gutenberg\n\nProject Gutenberg (PG) is a volunteer effort to digitize and archive cultural works, to \"encourage the creation and distribution of eBooks\". It was founded in 1971 by American writer Michael S. Hart and is the oldest digital library. Most of the items in its collection are the full texts of public domain books. The project tries to make these as free as possible, in long-lasting, open formats that can be used on almost any computer. , Project Gutenberg reached 57,000 items in its collection of free eBooks.\n\nThe releases are available in plain text but, wherever possible, other formats are included, such as HTML, PDF, EPUB, MOBI, and Plucker. Most releases are in the English language, but many non-English works are also available. There are multiple affiliated projects that are providing additional content, including regional and language-specific works. Project Gutenberg is also closely affiliated with Distributed Proofreaders, an Internet-based community for proofreading scanned texts.\n\nProject Gutenberg was started by Michael Hart in 1971 with the digitization of the United States Declaration of Independence. Hart, a student at the University of Illinois, obtained access to a Xerox Sigma V mainframe computer in the university's Materials Research Lab. Through friendly operators, he received an account with a virtually unlimited amount of computer time; its value at that time has since been variously estimated at $100,000 or $100,000,000. Hart has said he wanted to \"give back\" this gift by doing something that could be considered to be of great value. His initial goal was to make the 10,000 most consulted books available to the public at little or no charge, and to do so by the end of the 20th century.\n\nThis particular computer was one of the 15 nodes on ARPANET, the computer network that would become the Internet. Hart believed that computers would one day be accessible to the general public and decided to make works of literature available in electronic form for free. He used a copy of the United States Declaration of Independence in his backpack, and this became the first Project Gutenberg e-text. He named the project after Johannes Gutenberg, the fifteenth century German printer who propelled the movable type printing press revolution.\n\nBy the mid-1990s, Hart was running Project Gutenberg from Illinois Benedictine College. More volunteers had joined the effort. All of the text was entered manually until 1989 when image scanners and optical character recognition software improved and became more widely available, which made book scanning more feasible. Hart later came to an arrangement with Carnegie Mellon University, which agreed to administer Project Gutenberg's finances. As the volume of e-texts increased, volunteers began to take over the project's day-to-day operations that Hart had run.\n\nStarting in 2004, an improved online catalog made Project Gutenberg content easier to browse, access and hyperlink. Project Gutenberg is now hosted by ibiblio at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nItalian volunteer Pietro Di Miceli developed and administered the first Project Gutenberg website and started the development of the Project online Catalog. In his ten years in this role (1994–2004), the Project web pages won a number of awards, often being featured in \"best of the Web\" listings, and contributing to the project's popularity.\n\nHart died on 6 September 2011 at his home in Urbana, Illinois at the age of 64.\n\nIn 2000, a non-profit corporation, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, Inc. was chartered in Mississippi, United States to handle the project's legal needs. Donations to it are tax-deductible. Long-time Project Gutenberg volunteer Gregory Newby became the foundation's first CEO.\n\nAlso in 2000, Charles Franks founded Distributed Proofreaders (DP), which allowed the proofreading of scanned texts to be distributed among many volunteers over the Internet. This effort greatly increased the number and variety of texts being added to Project Gutenberg, as well as making it easier for new volunteers to start contributing. DP became officially affiliated with Project Gutenberg in 2002. , the 36,000+ DP-contributed books comprised almost two-thirds of the nearly books in Project Gutenberg.\n\nIn August 2003, Project Gutenberg created a CD containing approximately 600 of the \"best\" e-books from the collection. The CD is available for download as an ISO image. When users are unable to download the CD, they can request to have a copy sent to them, free of charge.\n\nIn December 2003, a DVD was created containing nearly 10,000 items. At the time, this represented almost the entire collection. In early 2004, the DVD also became available by mail.\n\nIn July 2007, a new edition of the DVD was released containing over 17,000 books, and in April 2010, a dual-layer DVD was released, containing nearly 30,000 items.\n\nThe majority of the DVDs, and all of the CDs mailed by the project, were recorded on recordable media by volunteers. However, the new dual layer DVDs were manufactured, as it proved more economical than having volunteers burn them. , the project has mailed approximately 40,000 discs. As of 2017, the delivery of free CDs has been discontinued, though the ISO image is still available for download.\n\n, Project Gutenberg claimed over items in its collection, with an average of over 50 new e-books being added each week. These are primarily works of literature from the Western cultural tradition. In addition to literature such as novels, poetry, short stories and drama, Project Gutenberg also has cookbooks, reference works and issues of periodicals. The Project Gutenberg collection also has a few non-text items such as audio files and music-notation files.\n\nMost releases are in English, but there are also significant numbers in many other languages. , the non-English languages most represented are: French, German, Finnish, Dutch, Italian, and Portuguese.\n\nWhenever possible, Gutenberg releases are available in plain text, mainly using US-ASCII character encoding but frequently extended to ISO-8859-1 (needed to represent accented characters in French and Scharfes s in German, for example). Besides being copyright-free, the requirement for a Latin (character set) text version of the release has been a criterion of Michael Hart's since the founding of Project Gutenberg, as he believes this is the format most likely to be readable in the extended future. Out of necessity, this criterion has had to be extended further for the sizable collection of texts in East Asian languages such as Chinese and Japanese now in the collection, where UTF-8 is used instead.\n\nOther formats may be released as well when submitted by volunteers. The most common non-ASCII format is HTML, which allows markup and illustrations to be included. Some project members and users have requested more advanced formats, believing them to be much easier to read. But some formats that are not easily editable, such as PDF, are generally not considered to fit in with the goals of Project Gutenberg. Also Project Gutenberg has two options for master formats that can be submitted (from which all other files are generated): customized versions of the Text Encoding Initiative standard (since 2005) and reStructuredText (since 2011).\n\nBeginning in 2009, the Project Gutenberg catalog began offering auto-generated alternate file formats, including HTML (when not already provided), EPUB and plucker.\n\nMichael Hart said in 2004, \"The mission of Project Gutenberg is simple: 'To encourage the creation and distribution of ebooks'\". His goal was, \"to provide as many e-books in as many formats as possible for the entire world to read in as many languages as possible\". Likewise, a project slogan is to \"break down the bars of ignorance and illiteracy\", because its volunteers aim to continue spreading public literacy and appreciation for the literary heritage just as public libraries began to do in the late 19th century.\n\nProject Gutenberg is intentionally decentralized. For example, there is no selection policy dictating what texts to add. Instead, individual volunteers work on what they are interested in, or have available. The Project Gutenberg collection is intended to preserve items for the long term, so they cannot be lost by any one localized accident. In an effort to ensure this, the entire collection is backed-up regularly and mirrored on servers in many different locations.\n\nProject Gutenberg is careful to verify the status of its ebooks according to United States copyright law. Material is added to the Project Gutenberg archive only after it has received a copyright clearance, and records of these clearances are saved for future reference. Project Gutenberg does not claim new copyright on titles it publishes. Instead, it encourages their free reproduction and distribution.\n\nMost books in the Project Gutenberg collection are distributed as public domain under United States copyright law. There are also a few copyrighted texts, like of science fiction author Cory Doctorow, that Project Gutenberg distributes with permission. These are subject to further restrictions as specified by the copyright holder, although they generally tend to be licensed under Creative Commons.\n\n\"Project Gutenberg\" is a trademark of the organization, and the mark cannot be used in commercial or modified redistributions of public domain texts from the project. There is no legal impediment to the reselling of works in the public domain if all references to Project Gutenberg are removed, but Gutenberg contributors have questioned the appropriateness of directly and commercially reusing content that has been formatted by volunteers. There have been instances of books being stripped of attribution to the project and sold for profit in the Kindle Store and other booksellers, one being the 1906 book \"Fox Trapping\".\n\nWith the U.S. annual copyright term set to expire in 2019, items published in 1923 will be added to the public domain effective January 1, 2019.\n\n, Project Gutenberg is no longer accessible within Germany to comply with a court order from S. Fischer Verlag regarding the works of Heinrich Mann, Thomas Mann and Alfred Döblin. Although they were public domain in the United States, the court recognized the infringement of copyrights still active in Germany, and asserted that the Project Gutenberg website was under German jurisdiction because it hosts content in the German language.\n\nThe text files use the format of plain text encoded in UTF-8 and wrapped at 65–70 characters, with paragraphs separated by a double line break. In recent decades, the resulting relatively bland appearance and the lack of a markup possibility have often been perceived as a drawback of this format.\nProject Gutenberg attempts to address this by making many texts available in HTML, ePub, and PDF versions as well, but faithful to the mission of offering data that is easy to handle with computer code, plain ASCII text remains the most important format, and the ePub version still contains extra line breaks between paragraphs.\n\nIn December 1994, Project Gutenberg was criticized by the Text Encoding Initiative for failing to include apparatus (documentation) of the decisions unavoidable in preparing a text, or in some cases, documenting which of several (conflicting) versions of a text has been the one digitized.\n\nThe selection of works (and editions) available has been determined by popularity, ease of scanning, being out of copyright, and other factors; this would be difficult to avoid in any crowd-sourced project.\n\nIn March 2004, a new initiative was begun by Michael Hart and John S. Guagliardo to provide low-cost intellectual properties. The initial name for this project was \"Project Gutenberg 2\" (PG II), which created controversy among PG volunteers because of the re-use of the project's trademarked name for a commercial venture.\n\nAll affiliated projects are independent organizations that share the same ideals and have been given permission to use the \"Project Gutenberg\" trademark. They often have a particular national or linguistic focus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29430789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29430789", "title": "Richard Cowan (bass-baritone)", "text": "Richard Cowan (bass-baritone)\n\nRichard Cowan (December 24, 1957 – November 16, 2015) was an American operatic bass-baritone. A National Finalist in the 1985 Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions and winner of the Grand Prize in the 1987 Concours International de Chant de Paris, Cowan sang leading roles in the opera houses of Europe and North America and was the Artistic Director of the Lyrique en Mer opera festival in Belle Île, which he founded in 1998.\n\nCowan was born in Euclid, Ohio and graduated in opera and composition from the Indiana University School of Music in 1981. He apprenticed first with Central City Opera and Michigan Opera Theatre and then joined the Lyric Opera of Chicago's Center for American Artists in 1983. He made his Chicago debut in 1983 as The Priest in the company premiere of \"Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk\" and by 1988 had appeared there in \"Carmen\", \"Arabella\", and \"Die Frau ohne Schatten\". He later appeared in two more company premieres: Antony in Barber's \"Antony and Cleopatra\" (1991) and John Sorel in Menotti's \"The Consul\" (1996).\n\nHis European debut came in 1985 when on the invitation of Bruno Bartoletti, he sang The Animal Trainer and The Athlete in Alban Berg's \"Lulu\" at the Maggio Musicale in Florence, roles he would later reprise in Chicago and at San Francisco Opera. In 1985 he was a National Finalist in the Metropolitan Opera National Council Auditions and in 1987 won the Grand Prize in the Concours International de Chant de Paris. Cowan made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1990 on the opening night of the season as Schaunard in \"La bohème\" and went on to perform there as Guglielmo in \"Così fan tutte\" and in the title role of \"Don Giovanni\", a role he would sing many times in the opera houses of North America and Europe. His other leading roles have included Bluebeard in Bartók's \"Bluebeard's Castle\" (Deutsche Oper in Berlin, Opera de Geneve, Melbourne, Liege, and the RAI National Symphony Orchestra in Turin), Escamillo in \"Carmen\" (Chicago, Toronto), Jokanaan in \"Salome\" (Miami, Minneapolis, Vancouver), and Nick Shadow in Stravinsky's \"The Rake's Progress\" (Spoleto Festival).\n\nCowan was the Artistic Director of Lyrique en Mer, Festival de Belle Île in France. He founded the festival in 1998, and has directed various works at the island's Citadelle Vauban such as \"Otello\", \"Rigoletto\", \"La traviata\", \"Don Giovanni\", \"Così fan tutte\", \"Le nozze di Figaro\", \"Dido and Aeneas\", \"La Cenerentola\", and \"Carmen\". He has taught classical voice at Roosevelt University in Chicago, Northern Kentucky University, and Carnegie Mellon University. He died on November 16, 2015, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56413752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56413752", "title": "Ruth Moench Bell", "text": "Ruth Moench Bell\n\nRuthinda Evelyn Moench Bell (January 29, 1878 – September 1, 1957) was a teacher at Utah Agricultural College.\n\nRuth Moench Bell was born on January 29, 1878, in Ogden, Utah, the daughter of Louis Frederick Moench (1846–1916) and Ruthinda Eveline Hill (1853–1924). \n\nShe graduate from Ashmore School of Expression and had a B. S. from Utah Agricultural College; she attended also University of Chicago, University of California, Berkeley and Columbia University. She studied and traveled in Europe.\n\nShe moved to Logan, Utah, and married to George A. Bell (1873–1964). Their children were: Ruth M Bell Hockensmith (d. 1941), Alladine, George, Richard Quentin Bell (1919–2001, American psychologist and educator. Bachelor of Arts Missouri in 1940. Master of Arts, University Missouri. Doctor of Philosophy, Stanford University in 1941. Recipient Commendation medal United States Public Health Service in 1966. Major United States Army from 1946 to 1951. Fellow American Psychological Association). They lived at 84 East Third St., North, Logan, Utah.\n\nShe was a teacher at Utah Agricultural College. She was the head of the Department of Dramatic Art at Utah Agricultural College from 1900 to 1907; she was director of Community Children's Plays, staging her own adaptations of \"The Blue Bird\" and \"Peter Pan\"; her serials and plays were published in all the magazines of the state; articles appeared in \"Harper's Weekly\", \"The Delineator\", \"The Woman's Magazine\", \"Boston Cooking School\", \"American Motherhood\"; she was a writer of scenarios for the Gaumont Company and other film companies; she was the author of \"Plotting the Play\", which carried an introduction by Clayton Hamilton. She was associate founder of the Utah Agricultural College Little Theatre, Campus Players Club and Playmakers Club. \n\nShe was also a member of: Business and Professional Women's Club, Utah Agricultural College Faculty League, Utah Agricultural College Woman's Club, Periwig, Theta Alpha Phi.\n\nShe died on September 1, 1957, and is buried at Logan City Cemetery, Logan.\n"}
{"id": "8990544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8990544", "title": "Sarajevo Music Academy", "text": "Sarajevo Music Academy\n\nThe Sarajevo Music Academy or Music Academy | University of Sarajevo( or MAS) is a Faculty of Music of University of Sarajevo in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nSarajevo Music Academy was founded by the Decision of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on May 20, 1955 as the fourth such higher education institution in the former joint state, and the first established after the World War II. This Decision was published in the official Gazette of the People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina No. 12/55, on June 8, 1955. The establishment of the Sarajevo Music Academy preceded a number of favorable prerequisites, such as the establishment of a network of music schools, the founding of the Sarajevo National Theater, Sarajevo Opera House, Symphony Orchestra RTV Sarajevo, the Institute for the study of folklore and the continuity of the Sarajevo Philharmonic Orchestra.\nAt the founding of the Academy, the founders of this institution were:\nAfter the formation of the first pedagogical core at the Sarajevo Music Academy the first Rector was elected, prof. Cvetko Rihtman. In the first year of the Academy's work, 42 students were enrolled. Teaching at the Sarajevo Music Academy began on 19 December 1955 in seven sections:\n\n\nThe fateful and tragic events that affected the former joint state in the nineties, made the Academy without a large number of teachers and associates, and the building was badly damaged on six occasions. One of the \"holes\" in the wall between the concert hall and the hallway, was inscribed and preserved the Academy's management, as a symbol of these difficult times. A large number of students left Sarajevo. Out of 45 permanently hired teachers and assistants at the Academy, only fifteen remained. The Academy has lost two-thirds of the collective. The only staff were teachers from other institutions that had been hired from time to time, and the number of students was about 50. Difficulties were also reflected in the organization of the teaching itself and in the absence of a functional work space.\nIn spite of all that, the training was interrupted only once for a short time, in May 1995, due to a more intensive bombing. Teachers of the instrumental sections often held classes in their own apartments due to the unsuccessful working space, but also the safety. Regardless of the difficult circumstances of life and work, the rest of the Academy has preserved human and professional enthusiasm. Apart from the efforts to preserve the teaching process, the Academy's teachers played a major role in establishing the Orchestra of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, restarting the work of the Sarajevo Philharmonic, and the academic choir \"Gaudeamus\". Thanks to efforts from then dean, Osman-Faruk Sijarić, significant support and assistance from music academies and conservatories from Vienna, Bern, Graz, Karlsruhe, Madrid, Stockholm, was given and the Sarajevo Music Academy was registered unanonimuosly in the membership of the European Association of Music Conservatories and Academies (European Association of Conservatoires). In the war period, 15 students graduated (BA), 2 graduated (MA) and one doctorate (PhD) was defended at the Academy. With huge difficulty, the Academy accomplished its basic function for almost the last decade of the 20th century.\n\nIn more than 62 years of existence and work of the Academy, there graduated over 2500 students, mastered them around 200, and about 24 doctorates were defended. About 300 teachers and associates were taking care about everything. Regardless of the great political, social and any other turbulence that strongly influenced all aspects of existence and work, the Academy had an upward developmental line. Today it is an internationally recognizable artistic and educational institution with developed departments, academic degrees, expressed artistic and scientific activities.\n\nThe Academy has eight Departments, one Institute of Musicology and one Center of Music Education:\n\n\nEducational process at the Sarajevo Music Academy is carried out in three cycles of study:\n\nSarajevo Music Academy participates in organization of following music festivals:\n\n\n\nThe Academy has over 2,500 graduates, more than 200 Master of Arts and Music Sciences, 20 Doctors of Music Sciences and 5 Doctor of Musical Arts. It also publishes the monthly student music magazine \"Music\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26049282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26049282", "title": "Soorya Gayathri", "text": "Soorya Gayathri\n\nSoorya Gayathri is a 1992 Malayalam film directed by Anil, written by John Paul, and starring Mohanlal in the lead role. The film is a revenge story, of a father who goes after the murderers of his son.\n\nMarried at 17 and widowed at 20, Dr. Balasubrahmaniam (Mohanlal) lives with his teenage son. Son does not want to follow his father into medicine and joins an engineering college. He is killed accidentally by some seniors during ragging. The upset father tries to get revenge on his son's killers.\n\n\nMusic: Raveendran, Lyrics: O. N. V. Kurup\n"}
{"id": "17955372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17955372", "title": "Suken", "text": "Suken\n\nEach Suken level (Kyu) has two sections. Section 1 is calculation and Section 2 is application.\n\nIn order to pass the Suken, you must correctly answer approximately 70% of section 1 and approximately 60% of section 2.\n\nThe examination time is 180 minutes for section 2, 60 minutes for section 2.\n\nThe examination time is 60 minutes for section 1, 60 minutes for section 2.\n\nThe examination time is 60 minutes for section 1, 60 minutes for section 2.\n\nLevels 5 - 3 include the following subjects:\n\nThe examination time is 60 minutes for section 1, 90 minutes for section 2.\n\nThe examination time is 60 minutes for section 1, 90 minutes for section 2.\n\nThe examination time is 60 minutes for section 1, 120 minutes for section 2.\n\nLevels pre-2 - pre-1 include the following subjects:\n\nThe examination time is 60 minutes for section 1, 120 minutes for section 2.\n\nLevel 1 includes the following subjects:\n\n"}
{"id": "47802310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47802310", "title": "The Polytechnic, Ile-Ife", "text": "The Polytechnic, Ile-Ife\n\nThe Polytechnic, Ile-Ife, formerly Universal Turorial College, is a private-owned tertiary institution located in the ancient city of Ile Ife, Osun State. Founded in 1984 by Rahmon Adedoyin, the polytechnic is recognized by the National Board for Technical Education after it was accredited in 2009. The Polytechnic, Ile-Ife offers National Diploma and Higher National Diploma courses at undergraduate levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40369399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40369399", "title": "Tropico 5", "text": "Tropico 5\n\nTropico 5 is a construction and management simulation video game developed by Haemimont Games. It was released for Microsoft Windows in May 2014, with versions for Linux, OS X and Xbox 360 released later in 2014 as well as versions for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One released in April 2015 and May 2016 respectively.\n\nFor the first time in the Tropico series the game features cooperative and competitive multiplayer for up to four players. The players are able to build cities on the same island, allowing the choice of working with one another, or against.\n\nThere are a number of additions to the \"Tropico 5\" game mechanics from the previous iteration of the series, notably the ability to advance to a new era if certain requirements are met; such as having written the constitution of Tropico. Tropico 5 includes 4 different eras, starting from Colonial Era, World Wars, Cold Wars and progressing up to Modern Times which allows progress from the 19th to the 21st century. Another gameplay mechanic is 'El Presidente' now has a dynastic family which will be present on the island. The trading, research, renovation and exploration features have also been overhauled. With multiplayer, diplomacy allows the players to share resources, construction workers, and electricity. Additionally, they are able to help each other with cash. Finally, players are able to compete and even declare war on each other.\n\nAccording to series producer Bisser Dyankov, Tropico 5 is designed to be much denser than its predecessors. The citizens are the lifeblood of the island to grow the island empire and for the sustainable growth, the players need to make them happy. Due to the needs of the 10 different in-game factions, one man's happiness may be another man's frustration. And their allegiances may change depending on the sort of government you run or the buildings you build. Due to the constitutional changes, some of the faction happiness may drop or rise depending on their allegiance to their factions.\n\n\"Tropico 5\", in the base game, comes with 15 missions, split into two parts. In both parts, you advance through all of the four eras, completing various objectives with one final objective for each mission.\n\nIn the first part of the game, Tropico must declare independence from the Crown, a spin on the British Empire. The player is also introduced to the campaign's primary antagonist, Leon Kane, the leader of The Order. Once the island has gained its independence (and thus ending the Colonial Era), the player, represented by \"El Presidente\" and his dynasty, must win three bets against the US President to befriend him; at the same time, a real estate tax must be paid continuously to the Crown. In the next mission, the island must build and maintain a large army in order to fend off a pending invasion. Once the invasion is defeated, the player must accrue a large sum in their Swiss Bank Account in order to purchase Switzerland and get \"Dr. Zweistein\" onto the island. This leads onto a demonstration of the tourism mechanic, in which the player is tasked with paying fees to The Order while, at the same time, trying to get enough tourists onto the island. Once that is accomplished, the player must build a Nuclear Program building to avoid World War III. Then, the island must produce and export Uranium for The Order, while at the same time, stopping the protests and increasing strikes from destroying the economy. At the end of this mission, Kane's plan is revealed: he wants to use the uranium to build enough nuclear missiles and launch an attack on the entire world, killing most of the population. The player must then generate enough research points to build a time machine (thanks to Zweistein from earlier) and travel back in time, thus beginning part two and averting the nuclear war.\n\nIn the second part, Tropico must produce and export gold to the Pirate King in order to free the King's son, for the Crown, all while dealing with constant pirate attacks. The next mission has the player exporting food to the King. After this, the island must amass a fortune high enough to become the richest country in the Caribbean. Once this has been done, the second military-themed mission has the player building a large army, not to defend, but to invade the island of \"Cayo de Fortuna\". The location of Kane is discovered, before he has the opportunity to start a nuclear war, and the player must complete a variety of tasks that help to assassinate him. After this has been completed, Tropico must export resources in order to dissolve the USSR, and then bring all the modern superpowers together and dealing with constant military threats to end the campaign.\n\nIn the game's sandbox mode, the player has a choice between choosing a pre-generated island provided by the developers or from the Steam Workshop, or they may generate a new, random island with a variety of options. Once their island has been created, they work through all the ages, receiving small and large tasks alike to help them advance through the ages and build a stable island. Each of the eras are endless, and may be progressed to whenever the player would like, by completing each of the three main tasks that are given at the end of the first three eras.\n\nAs leader, players can decide their country's independence and write a full constitution.\n\n\"Tropico 5\" was made available for pre-purchase on Steam on 17 April 2014.\n\nThe game was banned in Thailand by the National Council for Peace and Order. The country's military junta government said that the game's storyline \"might affect peace and order in the country.\" The game's distributor in Thailand, New Era Thailand, explained that \"In the fifth installment, the storyline has developed further and there might be some part of it that's not appropriate in the current situation [in Thailand].\"\n\nThe game's \"Complete Edition\", which includes all the released downloadable content and expansion packs (\"Espionage\" and \"Waterborne\"), was released digitally on 29 January 2016.\n\nThe game forumers discovered that the vanilla games have the working models inside the game which are later sold and \"unlocked\" in the DLC.\n\"Tropico 5\" received somewhat positive reviews from critics. Aggregating review website Metacritic gave the PC version 75/100 based on 51 reviews, respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "6050040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6050040", "title": "UK Chess Challenge", "text": "UK Chess Challenge\n\nThe UK Chess Challenge is an annual four-stage chess competition for school-age children from the United Kingdom. Michael Basman is credited with creating the original challenge back in 1996 and is still closely connected with the competition. The director of the tournament is Sarah Longson (née Hegarty) supported by her husband Alex Longson. Longson is former British Ladies Chess Champion and represents England at Olympiads. \nOver 40,000 children play in the competition at the school stage and the eventual winner wins £2,000 and is crowned as UK Schools' Chess Challenge Champion. In 2017 Harry Grieve won the event and was presented his prize by Lord Price. The competition is generously sponsored by Delancey.\n\nThe first stage involves school chess clubs holding a qualifying competition to determine the strongest player for each gender-year combination, e.g. U-11 boys, U-12 girls. Each such player qualifies to enter the county Megafinal competition. For schools without chess clubs, there are alternative competitions within the county that will also enable qualification to the Megafinal.\n\nA one-day Megafinal is held within each UK county to determine the strongest player from the county within each gender / year combination. Each such player is titled Supremo (boys) or Suprema (girls). The top player plus all those scoring 4/6 or better qualify for the Gigafinal.\n\nThere are two one-day Gigafinals - one for Northern counties; one for Southern counties. As with the Megafinal, each Gigafinal is held to determine the strongest player for the qualifying region within each gender / year combination. Each such player is titled Ultimo (boys) or Ultima (girls). The Ultimo / Ultima players from each Gigafinal qualify to enter the Terafinal Champions competition. Until 2002, the two runners-up in each category qualified to enter the Terafinal Challengers competition. From 2003, each player scoring 5/6 or better qualifies for the Terafinal Challengers competition.\n\nThere are two two-day Terafinal competitions - the Terafinal Champions competition for the Ultimo / Ultima qualifiers from the Gigafinals, and the Terafinal Challengers competition for the runners-up. Over two days, the Champions competition identifies the strongest player in each category. Such players are titled Strat (boys or girls) and usually win a substantial prize.\n\nNew 2011 Website \n"}
{"id": "314803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314803", "title": "University of Zurich", "text": "University of Zurich\n\nThe University of Zurich (UZH, ), located in the city of Zürich, is the largest university in Switzerland, with over 25,000 students. It was founded in 1833 from the existing colleges of theology, law, medicine and a new faculty of philosophy.\nCurrently, the university has seven faculties: Philosophy, Human Medicine, Economic Sciences, Law, Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Theology and Veterinary Medicine. The university offers the widest range of subjects and courses of any Swiss higher education institution. As of October 2018, 23 Nobel laureates and 1 Turing Award winner have been affiliated with University of Zurich as alumni, faculty or researchers. \n\nThe University of Zurich was founded on April 29, 1833, when the existing colleges of theology, the \"Carolinum\" founded by Huldrych Zwingli in 1525, law and medicine were merged with a new faculty of Philosophy. It was the first university in Europe to be founded by the state rather than a monarch or church.\n\nIn the University's early years, the 1839 appointment of the German theologian David Friedrich Strauss to its Chair of Theology caused a major controversy, since Strauss argued that the miracles in the Christian New Testament were mythical retellings of normal events as supernatural happenings. Eventually, the authorities offered Strauss a pension before he had a chance to start his duties.\n\nThe university allowed women to attend philosophy lectures from 1847, and admitted the first female doctoral student in 1866. The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine was added in 1901, the second-oldest such faculty in the world. In 1914, the university moved to new premises designed by the architect Karl Moser on Rämistrasse 71.\n\nThe university is scattered all over the city of Zurich. Members of the university can use several libraries, including the ETH-library, and the Zurich Central Library, with over 5 million volumes.\nIn 1962, the faculty of science proposed to establish the Irchelpark campus on the \"Strickhofareal\". The first stage the construction of the university buildings was begun in 1973, and the campus was inaugurated in 1979. The construction of the second stage lasted from 1978 to 1983. The campus also houses the anthropological museum \"Anthropologisches Museum\", and the cantonal Staatsarchiv Zürich.\n\nThe Institute and Museum for the History of Medicine is part of the university.\n\nThe University of Zurich as a whole also ranks in the top ten of Europe and in the top fifty worldwide. Notably in the fields of bioscience and finance, there is a close-knit collaboration between the University of Zurich and the ETH (Federal Institute for Technology, just across the road). Their faculty of chiropractic medicine is six years.\n\n\nThe university’s Department of Economics is especially strong and was ranked first in the German-speaking area by the Handelsblatt in 2017. In 2009 the faculty of Business Administration was ranked third in the German-speaking area.\n\nBachelor courses are taught in Swiss Standard German (\"Hochdeutsch\"), but use of English is increasing in many faculties. The only bachelors program taught entirely in English is the \"English Language and Literature\" program. All Master courses at the Faculty of Science are held in English. Master courses in Economics and Finance are mainly held in English, while the Master of Science in Quantitative Finance is held completely in English.\n\n\nThe university's Academic Sports Association (ASVZ) offers a wide range of sports facilities to students of the university.\n\nAssociated with the university are 12 Nobel Prize recipients, primarily in Physics and Chemistry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53002783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53002783", "title": "Utah dual language immersion", "text": "Utah dual language immersion\n\nUtah's Dual language immersion program was created in 2008 to help students achieve proficiency in a second language in preparation for future careers and the global economy. In the early school years, the students are immersed in a target language for half a day – Mandarin Chinese, French, Spanish, Portuguese, or German – and half a day in English. In high school, students can participate in a Bridge Program, allowing them to take language classes that would give them concurrent college credit at certain universities throughout Utah. Over 160 schools in Utah currently participate in the program. Proven benefits include an increased performance on standardized tests, fluency in a target language, and an increased cultural awareness and sensitivity.\n\nSenate Bill 80 (S.B. 80), The Critical Languages Program, sponsored by Senator Howard Stephenson, was passed in 2007, leading to the creation of initiatives that established a Governor's World Language Council; the Utah World Language Roadmap; and eventually the passing of S.B. 41 International Initiatives in 2008, the last of which lead to the creation of Utah's dual language immersion program.\n\nThe program's goal is to help students achieve a high enough proficiency level in a second language to be used in a future career as they become participants in a global economy. Languages available in the program include Spanish, Portuguese, Mandarin Chinese, French, and German. Plans are being made to add Russian and Arabic to the program.\n\nThe students are immersed in a foreign language for half of the day, and in English for the other half.\n\nIn the immersion language half of the day for grades 1-3, students spend 20% of their school day learning math; 15% in Social stud, Science, Physical Education (P.E.), Art, Health, and Music; and 15% of their day in the target language literacy. For the other half of the day, students spend most of their time in English Language Arts, with the remaining 15% of the school day in English reinforcement of the subjects learned in their immersion language.\n\nIn grades 4 and 5, the percentage changes: 25% of the day is spent learning Math and Science in the immersion language, 25% in immersion language literacy, 25% in English Language Arts, 25% in Math and Social Studies in English, while Music, Art, P.E., and Health are taught in both languages.\n\nIn sixth grade, the learning schedule is mostly the same as in grades 4 and 5, but with a switch; the science and social studies classes have now switched places. Science is now taught in English, and Social Studies is now taught in the immersion language.\n\nIn the junior high years, students spend more time learning in English, but must take two courses taught in the immersion language: a world languages class, and either Foundations of Social Studies, Health/Humanities, or World Geography.\n\nBeginning in Fall 2016, high school students who pass an AP language course and exam in ninth grade will have the option to enroll in the Bridge Program, where they can enroll in one of three courses per school year that, if passed, will award them with concurrent upper-division university credit, leaving students only two credits shy of a minor in their immersion language by the time they arrive at the university. Seven of Utah's universities are involved in this Bridge Program. It began first with the University of Utah, but has expanded to include Brigham Young University, Utah State University, Weber State University, Utah Valley University, Southern Utah University, and Dixie State University.\n\nThe school districts that offer this dual language immersion program, covering 163 schools statewide, include:\n\nSeveral charter schools are also involved in the DLI program, in Lehi (Chinese), Bluffdale (German), Spanish Fork (Spanish), and Layton (Spanish), Utah.\n\nThe program is expanding by 20 to 25 schools every year. Most classes in the program are for English-native speakers. However, in areas of the state where there is a higher concentration of Spanish-speaking immigrants, an English Language immersion-style program is available.\n\nUtah's DLI program has inspired similar dual language immersion programs throughout the United States, in places like Arizona, Idaho, Wyoming, and South Carolina.\n\nAlong with second language skills, proven benefits of the DLI program include improved performance on standardized tests, where they perform better, or as well as, students on in an immersion program; increased cultural sensitivity as they become more aware of other world cultures; and more.\n\nIt is not only the language that the students are immersed in, but the culture as well. In schools where Mandarin is taught, for example, Chinese lanterns decorate the halls, Taiwanese music is played, and native food, like dumplings and pot stickers, is served in the cafeterias. In one school where Spanish is taught, classrooms are decorated with flags from Spanish-speaking countries, posters of Spanish artists, and clocks that show the time in those countries.\n"}
{"id": "9806491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9806491", "title": "World Maths Day", "text": "World Maths Day\n\nWorld Maths Day (\"World Math Day\" in American English) is an online international mathematics competition, powered by educational resource provider 3P Learning (the same organisation behind the school resources Mathletics, Spellodrome and IntoScience). Smaller elements of the wider Mathletics program effectively power the World Maths Day event.\n\nThe first World Maths Day was held on March 14, 2007 (Pi Day), and has been held on the 1st Wednesday in March in subsequent years. Despite these origins, the phrases \"World Maths Day\" and \"World Math Day\" are trademarks and not to be confused with other competitions such as the International Mathematical Olympiad or days such as Pi Day. In 2010, World Maths Day created a Guinness World Record for the \"Largest Online Maths Competition\".\n\nIn 2011, the team behind the competition added a second event World Spelling Day - and officially rebranded as the World Education Games. In 2012, a third event was added - World Science Day. The World Maths Day and World Education Games are now sponsored by Samsung, and supported by UNICEF as global charity partner. No event was held in 2014, and the schedule was changed to hold the event in October 2015.\n\nWorld Maths Day involves participants playing 60 second games, with the platform heavily based on \"Live Mathletics\" found in Mathletics.\nThe contests involve mental math problems appropriate for each age group which test the accuracy and speed of the students as they compete against other students across the Globe. The simple but innovative idea of combining the aspects of multi-player online gaming with math problems has contributed to its popularity around the world. Nowadays there are 10 levels. Level 1 is simple addition to 10, while the higher levels involve converting units for area and volume, Cartesian graphs and factorizing algebraic expressions to name a few.\n\nThe inaugural World Maths Day was held on March 13, 2007. 287 000 students from 98 countries answered 38 904 275 questions.The student numbers and the participating countries have steadily increased in the following years as evidenced by the Guinness Record created in 2010, though since then Game limits have caused the number of questions answered to drop each year(In 2015 the number was less than in 2008). In 2012 as the World Education Games, over 5.9 Million students from 240 Countries and Territories around the World registered to take part in the games with the World Maths Day being the biggest attraction.\nIn 2013, it was held between 5–7 March and the awards were presented at the Sydney Opera House to the Champions. In 2015 it was held for 96 hours in October and a similar prize-giving is planned.\n\nA number of awards are offered to the students who take part and for those who do well in the event. Additionally the Champions and the Top Ten students in the world are awarded Gold medals every year.\n\nThere are also a number of National lead-up events in different regions around the world which are also based on the Mathletics format.The winners may become the Ambassadors of their Country for the World Education Games the following year and help to promote the event.\n\nThe complete list of individual Champions, School, Class and other winners over the years could once be found in the World Education Games website. The new 2015 website no longer has the archive of Hall of Fames and other statistics.\n\nThe Individual Gold Medal Winners through the years are listed below\n\nThe 2015 event was held on October 13-October 15, 2015. There were 10 ages categories: 1 each for grades K-8, and one for grades 9+. The game limit was dropped to 20 games per student. It is possible to play further, but these do not count to ones personal total, only the event total. 169 Million points were scored across Maths, Literacy and Science.\nThroughout the year Mathletics host several National Mathletics challenges in the lead up to World Maths Day. These challenges and the winners list are as follows:\n\nThe American Math Challenge :Winner- Alek K, Haddonfields schools, Null.\n\nThe Australian Maths Challenge :Winner- Parker C, Home Education, Queensland\n\nThe Canadian Math Challenge :Winner- Shekar S, North Kipling Junior Middle School, ON.\n\nThe European Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Anna S, British International School of Ljubljana, Slovenia.\n\nThe Middle East Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Zakria Y, Australian International School, UAE.\n\nThe NZ Maths Challenge :Winner- Vlad B, St Mary's School, Christchurch.\n\nThe South African Maths Challenge :Winner- Jaden D, Wilton House, GT.\n\nThe UK Four Nations Maths Challenge :Winner- Sharan Maiya, Glasgow Academy, Scotland.\n\nThe American Math Challenge :Winner- Sayan Das, Team USA, Minnesota.\n\nThe Australian Maths Challenge :Winner- Tatiana Devendranath, Team Australia, VIC.\n\nThe Canadian Math Challenge :Winner- Tom.L, MPS, Etobicoke.\n\nThe European Schools Maths Challenge:Winner-\n\nThe Middle East Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- .\n\nThe NZ Maths Challenge :Winner- Thomas Graydon, Pitt Island School.\n\nThe Pakistan Maths Challenge: Winner- Dilsher A, The International School of Choueifat.\n\nThe South African Maths Challenge :Winner- Jaden D, Team ZAF.\n\nThe UK Four Nations Maths Challenge :Winner- Sharan Maiya, Glasgow Academy, Scotland, United Kingdom.\n\nThe American Math Challenge :Winner- Zhe W, Team USA, Massachusetts\n\nThe Latin American Math Challenge :Winner- Adriana Donis, Colegio Internacional Montessori, Guatemala\n\nThe Australian Maths Challenge :Winner- Aaron Herrmann, Seaford 6-12 School, South Australia\n\nThe Canadian Math Challenge :Winner- Hanting C, Maywood Community School, Canada\n\nThe European Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Filip Szary, Team Poland\n\nThe Middle East Schools Maths Challenge:Winner- Pushp raj P, MES Indian School, Qatar\n\nThe NZ Maths Challenge :Winner- Willem Ebbinge, Remarkables Primary School, Otago\n\nThe Pakistan Maths Challenge: Winner- Husnain Ali Abid, Team Pakistan, Punjab\n\nThe South African Maths Challenge :Winner- Bradley P, Merrifield College, Eastern Cape\n\nThe UK Four Nations Maths Challenge :Winner- Ryan Conlan, Team GBR, Scotland\n\nThe Nigerian Maths Challenge Winner Ayomide Adebanjo, Xplanter Private School, Lagos\n\n"}
