{"id": "39020527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39020527", "title": "2002 North American drought", "text": "2002 North American drought\n\nThe 2002 North American Drought was an exceptional and damaging drought which impacted the Western United States, Midwestern United States and the Mountain States.\n\nThe Drought of 2002 began around spring and spread over numerous states, including Nebraska, Iowa, Colorado, Wyoming and Utah. Denver was forced to impose water restrictions for the first time in over 20 years. The Drought of 2002 had a negative impact in many states. \n\nThe Drought of 2002 also ravaged certain parts of Canada, particularly Alberta, Manitoba and Saskatchewan.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2221532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221532", "title": "American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity", "text": "American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity\n\nThe American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity (ACCCE, formerly ABEC or Americans for Balanced Energy Choices) is a U.S. non-profit advocacy group representing major American coal producers, utility companies and railroads. The organization seeks to influence public opinion and legislation in favor of coal-generated electricity in the United States, placing emphasis on the development and deployment of clean coal technologies.\n\nSince carbon capture and sequestration—which ACCCE and its member companies advocate to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal burning—has yet to be tested on a large scale, some have questioned whether this approach is feasible or realistic.\n\nACCCE faced a Congressional investigation when it was discovered that a lobbying firm hired by ACCCE had sent forged letters to lawmakers. The letters, purporting to come from a variety of minority-focused non-profit groups, were in fact forged by a lobbying firm hired by ACCCE.\n\nThe ACCCE began operations in 2008, the result of a combination of two organizations: the Center for Energy and Economic Development (CEED) and Americans for Balanced Energy Choices (ABEC). CEED had been founded in 1992 and since then had been involved in a wide range of climate and energy policies related to coal-based electricity. ABEC, formed in 2000, had focused on consumer based advocacy programs concerning the use of coal-based electricity. In 2008 these two groups were combined to form ACCCE, with the goal of focusing on both legislative and public advocacy efforts. The main programs include the America’s Power campaign, launched in 2007 by ABEC, which had a significant presence during the 2008 and 2012 elections, as well as legislative efforts during the United States House of Representatives debate over the Waxman-Markey cap and trade legislation.\n\nAs of 2012, ACCCE is supported by 34 member organizations, including Peabody Energy, Southern Company, American Electric Power and CSX Transportation. The organization maintains headquarters in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn addressing comprehensive climate change legislation that would place a cap on greenhouse gas emissions and allow for trading of emission allowances, the position of ACCCE has primarily involved advocating for the development and use of clean coal technologies, while also including provisions concerning the allocating of carbon emission allowances. ACCCE has as also expressed support for a ceiling on emission allowances prices. At the time in 2008 when the U.S. Senate was considering the Lieberman-Warner bill (bill number ) – which would create a cap and trade system – ACCCE changed its prior stance towards climate-change legislation, noting that it \"would support mandatory limits on carbon dioxide as long as legislation met a set of principles that encouraged 'robust utilization of coal.'\"\n\nThe group also employed legislative efforts surrounding the 2009 debate over the Waxman-Markey cap and trade legislation (bill number ), to which it argued that regulations relating to carbon emissions in the proposed legislation would have led to increased energy costs and reduction in employment – potentially placing additional strain on the economy during the late 2000s recession. ACCCE provided proposals to Members of Congress for changes in this legislation, and approved of some changes that were adopted; though the group did not support the final version of the bill that passed the U.S. House of Representatives on account of concerns that there were not enough measures taken to control energy rates.\n\nIn addition to legislative methods employed by ACCCE, the organization has engaged in consumer-focused advocacy efforts in response to perceived environmental effects surrounding clean coal, consisting of direct to consumer advertising, as well as a group of approximately 225,000 volunteers (referred to as \"America's Power Army,\" according to their website) involved in \"visiting town hall meetings, fairs and other functions attended by members of Congress (to) ask questions about energy policy.\"\n\nInitiatives of this form became the subject of news coverage surrounding the 2008 United States presidential election, as the organization's presence at the Democratic National Convention, Republican National Convention, presidential debates and other events has been described as having impacted both Senators John McCain and Barack Obama's positions in regards to investment in clean coal. In the last debate held prior to the election in 2008, Senator Obama noted his support of clean coal technology, when prompted by Senator McCain to explain a time in which he had backed a position not favored by the leaders of the democratic party.\n\nACCCE's legislative positions and advocacy-based actions have been met with opposing viewpoints from advocacy groups such as the Sierra Club and Greenpeace, which have questioned the viability of developing environmentally sustainable clean coal within an adequate time frame and budget – representing their perspective that funding of such projects should be sourced exclusively from within the coal industry. A 2009 article in \"Mother Jones\" magazine said ACCCE was among the most prominent organizations in promoting climate disinformation.\n\nDuring the 2009 debate over the Waxman/Markey bill, Bonner & Associates, a Washington, D.C. lobbying firm subcontracted by ACCCE though the Hawthorne Group to drum up \"grassroots support\" for this effort, sent a number of fraudulent letters to lawmakers on behalf of ACCCE. The letters were forged to appear to come from various minority-focused non-profit groups, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Association of University Women.\n\nWhen the forgery was exposed, and faced with a proposed Congressional investigation, ACCCE apologized to the community groups and to the members of Congress involved. ACCCE disavowed the tactic and blamed the forgeries on their subcontractor, who in turn blamed a temporary worker, acting alone. \"The Washington Post\" described the situation as a \"saga of modern Washington, in which an 'American coalition' [the ACCCE] claiming 200,000 supporters still relies on a subcontractor to gin up favorable letters.\"\n\nAn investigation of ACCCE by U.S. Representative Edward Markey, launched in response to the forgeries, disclosed an additional set of fraudulent letters sent to lawmakers to lobby against the environmental legislation. In response to the investigation, the ACCCE pledged to take \"all possible steps\" to verify the authenticity of letters sent by Bonner & Associates on its behalf, and stated that it was cooperating with Markey's investigation. The investigation concluded in October 2009 with Jack Bonner, chairman of Bonner & Associates, taking “full responsibility” for the forged letters. Bonner and Associates was never paid by ACCCE for their work on the legislation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54182471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54182471", "title": "Anomalous oxygen", "text": "Anomalous oxygen\n\nAnomalous oxygen is hot atomic and singly ionized oxygen believed to be present in Earth's exosphere above 500 km near the poles during their respective summers. This additional component augmenting the mainly hydrogen and helium exosphere is able to explain the unexpectedly high drag forces on satellites passing near the poles in their summers. Anomalous oxygen densities are included in the NRLMSISE-00 models of Earth's atmosphere. \n"}
{"id": "474410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=474410", "title": "Anza-Borrego Desert State Park", "text": "Anza-Borrego Desert State Park\n\nAnza-Borrego Desert State Park (ABDSP) is a California state park located within the Colorado Desert of southern California, United States. The park takes its name from 18th century Spanish explorer Juan Bautista de Anza and \"borrego\", the Spanish word for sheep. With 600,000 acres (240,000 ha) that includes one-fifth of San Diego County, ABDSP is the largest state park in California and, the second largest in the contiguous United States. \n\nThe park occupies eastern San Diego County and reaches into Imperial and Riverside counties, enveloping two communities: Borrego Springs, which is home to the park's headquarters, and Shelter Valley.\n\nABDSP is around a two-hour drive northeast from San Diego, southeast from Riverside or Irvine, and south from Palm Springs. The park is an anchor in the Mojave and Colorado Deserts Biosphere Reserve, and adjacent to the Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains National Monument.\n\nABDSP includes of dirt roads, 12 designated wilderness areas, and of hiking trails to provide visitors with many opportunities to experience the park's unique version of the Colorado Desert environs. Park information and maps, interpretive events and displays and listening devices for the hearing impaired are all available in the Visitor Center. ABDSP has Wi-Fi access to the Internet in various sections of the park, as do 55 other California state parks.\n\nMany visitors approach ABDSP from the east-Coachella Valley side via County Route S22 and State Route 78. Visitors can also approach from the west-Pacific Ocean side via California County Routes S79 or S67 and add experiences of passing through the high and forested Laguna Mountains, such as in Cuyamaca Rancho State Park. These highways climb from the coast to above sea level, then descend down into the Borrego Valley in the center of the park. \n\nThe great bowl of the surrounding desert is surrounded by mountains, with the Vallecito Mountains to the south and the highest Santa Rosa Mountains to the north. They are in the park's wilderness area, without paved roads and with the only year-round creeks in ABDSP.\n\nThe habitats of ABDSP are primarily within the Colorado Desert ecosystem of the Sonoran Desert ecoregion. The higher extreme northern and eastern sections in the Peninsular Ranges are in the California montane chaparral and woodlands ecoregion.\n\nThe park contains \"bajadas\" and desert washes; rock formations and colorful badlands, large arid landscapes, and mountains. The bajadas are predominantly creosote bush-bur sage with creosote bush (\"Larrea tridentata\") and the palo verde-cactus shrub ecosystems with the palo verde tree (\"Parkinsonia microphylla\"), cacti, and ocotillo. In the washes, Colorado/Sonoran microphylla woodlands can be found. These woodlands include such plants as smoke tree (\"Psorothamnus spinosus\"), velvet mesquite (\"Prosopis velutina\"), and catclaw (\"Acacia greggii\").\n\nABDSP has natural springs and oases, with the state's only native palm, the California Fan Palm (\"Washingtonia filifera\"). Seasonal wildflower displays can be seen in any plant community association throughout the park. The high-country to the north and east has closed-cone pine forests, manzanitas and oak woodlands.\n\nThe oases are prolific with many types of fauna, especially for bird-watching. Throughout the park, visitors may see bighorn sheep, mountain lions, kit foxes, mule deer, coyotes, greater roadrunners, golden eagles, black-tailed jackrabbits, ground squirrels, kangaroo rats, quail, and prairie falcons. In the reptile class, desert iguanas, chuckwallas, and the red diamond rattlesnakes can be seen.\n\nSome areas of ABDSP are habitats for the Peninsular bighorn sheep, often called desert bighorn sheep. Few park visitors see them, and the sheep avoid human contact. Observers count this endangered species to study the population, and monitor its current decline from human encroachment.\n\nThe expanses of ABDSP's eroded badlands also provide a different view into the region's long-vanished tropical past. The inland of southeastern California was not always a desert. Paleontology, the study of the fossilized remains of ancient life, is the key to understanding this prehistoric world. ABDSP has an exceptional fossil record which includes preserved plants, a variety of invertebrate shells, animal tracks, and an array of bones and teeth. Most fossils found in ABDSP date from six million to under a half million years in age (the Pliocene and Pleistocene epochs), or about 60 million years after the last dinosaur age ended.\n\nABDSP lies in a unique geologic setting along the western margin of the Salton Trough. This major topographic depression with the Salton Sink having elevations of below sea level, forms the northernmost end of an active rift valley and a geological continental plate boundary. The trough extends north from the Gulf of California to San Gorgonio Pass, and from the eastern rim of the Peninsular Ranges eastward to the San Andreas Fault zone along the far side of the Coachella Valley. \n\nOver the past seven million years, a relatively complete geologic record of over of fossil-bearing sediment has been deposited within the park along the rift valley's western margin. Paleontological remains are widespread and diverse, and are found scattered over hundreds of square miles of eroded badlands terrain extending south from the Santa Rosa Mountains into northern Baja California in Mexico.\n\nBoth marine and terrestrial environments are represented by this long and rich fossil record. Six million years ago, the ancestral Gulf of California filled the Salton Trough, extending northward past what would become the city of Palm Springs. These tropical waters supported a profusion of both large and small marine organisms. Through time, the sea gave way as an immense volume of sediment eroded during the formation of the Grand Canyon spilled into the Salton Trough. Little by little, the ancestral Colorado River built a massive river delta across the sea way. Fossil hardwoods from the deltaic sands and associated coastal plain deposits suggest the region received three times as much rainfall as now.\n\nThe Anza-Borrego region gradually changed from a predominately marine environment into a system of interrelated terrestrial habitats. North of the Colorado River Delta and intermittently fed by the river, a sequence of lakes and dry lakes has persisted for over three million years. At the same time, sediments eroded from the growing Santa Rosa Mountains and other Peninsular Ranges to spread east into the trough. These sediments provide an almost unbroken terrestrial fossil record, ending only a half million years ago. Here, the deposits of ancient streams and rivers trapped the remains of wildlife that inhabited a vast brushland savannah laced with riparian woodlands.\n\nThis record of changing environments and habitats includes over 550 types of fossil plants and animals, ranging from preserved microscopic plant pollen and algal spores to baleen whale bones and mammoth skeletons. Many of the species are extinct and some are known only from fossil remains recovered from this park. Combined with a long and complete sedimentary depositional sequence, these diverse fossil assemblages are an unparalleled paleontologic resource of international importance. \n\nBoth the Pliocene-Pleistocene epoch boundary and the Blancan-Irvingtonian North American land mammal ages boundary fall within the long geological record from the Anza-Borrego region. Environmental changes associated with these geological time divisions are probably better tracked by fossils from the Anza-Borrego region than in any other North American continental platform stratum. These changes herald the beginning of the Ice Ages, and the strata contain fossil clues to the origin and development of modern southwestern desert landscapes.\n\nThe first fossils, marine shells from the ancient Gulf of California and freshwater shells from a prehistoric era Lake Cahuilla, precursor of present-day Salton Sea, were collected and described by William Blake in 1853. Blake was the geologist and mineralogist for the Pacific Railroad Surveys commissioned by Congress and President Franklin Pierce to find a railway route to the Pacific. Blake first named this region the Colorado Desert.\n\nSince the late 19th century, numerous scientific studies and published papers have centered on the marine organisms that inhabited the ancient Gulf of California. Fossil assemblages from the classic 'Imperial Formation' include calcareous nanoplankton and dinoflagellates, foraminifera, corals, polychaetes, clams, gastropods, sea urchins, sand dollars, and crabs and shrimp. The deposits also yield the remains of marine vertebrates, such as sharks and rays, bony fish, baleen whales, walruses and dugongs.\n\nMarine environments such as outer and inner shelf, platform reef, and near shore beach and lagoon, are all represented within the \"Imperial Formation\". As the sea became more shallow, estuarine and brackish marine conditions prevailed, typified by thick channel deposits of oyster and pecten shell coquina that now form the \"Elephant Knees\" along Fish Creek. Many of the marine fossils are closely related to forms from the Caribbean Sea. They document a time before the Isthmus of Panama formed, when the warm Gulf Stream of the western Atlantic Ocean invaded eastern Pacific Ocean waters.\n\nAs North and South America connected about three million years ago, terrestrial faunal north-south migrations began on a continental scale called the Great American Interchange, and are present in Anza-Borrego's fossils. Animals such as giant ground sloths and porcupines made their first appearance in North America at this time.\n\nThe oldest terrestrial vertebrate fossils from the Colorado Desert predate the late Miocene invasion of the Gulf of California. These very rare fossils, which include a gomphothere (elephant-like mammal), rodent, felid and small camelid, and were collected from 10– to 12-million-year-old riverine and near-shore lake deposits. However, the most significant and abundant vertebrate fossils have been recovered from the latest Miocene through late-Pleistocene riverine and flood plane deposits of the Palm Spring Formation in the Vallecito and Fish Creek Badlands and Ocotillo Conglomerate exposed in the Borrego Badlands. These fossil assemblages occur in a 3.5-million-year-long, uninterrupted stratigraphic sequence that has been dated using horizons of volcanic ash and paleomagnetic methods.\n\nThe bestiary for this savannah landscape includes some of the most unusual creatures to inhabit North America – animals such as:\"Geochelone\", a giant bathtub-sized tortoise; \"Aiolornis incredibilis\", the largest flying bird of the Northern Hemisphere, with 17-ft (5.2-m) wing span; \"Paramylodon\", \"Megalonyx\" and \"Nothrotheriops\", giant ground sloths, some with bony armor within their skin; \"Pewelagus\", a very small rabbit (paleontologists can name with a sense of humor); \"Borophagus\", a hyena-like dog; \"Acrtodus\", a giant short-faced bear; \"Smilodon\", a saber-toothed cat; \"Miracinonyx\", the North American cheetah; \"Mammuthus imperator\", the largest known mammoth; \"Tapirus\", an extinct tapir; \"Equus enormis\" and \"Equus scotti\", two species of extinct Pleistocene horses; \"Gigantocamelus\" a giant camel; and \"Capromeryx minor\", the dwarf pronghorn.\nThe Native Americans of the surrounding mountains and deserts included the Cahuilla, Cupeño, and Kumeyaay (Diegueño) Indian tribes. It was the homeland of these peoples for thousands of years, and their artists created petroglyph and pictogram rock art expressing their cultures.\n\nThe Anza-Borrego Foundation (ABF), founded in 1967, is a non-profit educational organization and is the sole cooperating association of ABDSP. It manages all sales at the State Park Visitor Center and State Park Store. \n\nThe Anza-Borrego Institute, the education arm of ABF, provides in-depth educational courses to more than 100,000 visitors each year. The institute offers in-depth field programs, a fifth grade environmental camp, citizen science research, and Parks Online Resources for Teachers and Students. ABF's mission is to protect and preserve the natural landscapes, wildlife habitat, and cultural heritage of ABDSP for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3156395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3156395", "title": "Cacholong", "text": "Cacholong\n\nCacholong, also known as Kalmuck agate, is a form of common opal, although it is often mistaken for agate or chalcedony. A milky white colour with a Mohs hardness of about 6, it is used for carving, cameos, etc. Found in Austria, Czech Republic, Mongolia and Uzbekistan, its name possibly comes from a river in Uzbekistan.\n"}
{"id": "7195427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7195427", "title": "Carbon detonation", "text": "Carbon detonation\n\nCarbon detonation or Carbon deflagration is the violent reignition of thermonuclear fusion in a white dwarf star that was previously slowly cooling. It involves a runaway thermonuclear process which spreads through the white dwarf in a matter of seconds, producing a Type Ia supernova which releases an immense amount of energy as the star is blown apart. The carbon detonation/deflagration process leads to a supernova by a different route from the better known Type II (core-collapse) supernova (the type II is caused by the cataclysmic explosion of the outer layers of a massive star as its core implodes).\n\nA white dwarf is the remnant of a small to medium size star (our sun is an example of these). At the end of its life, the star has burned its hydrogen and helium fuel, and thermonuclear fusion processes cease. The star does not have enough mass to either burn much heavier elements, or to implode into a neutron star or type II supernova as a larger star can, from the force of its own gravity, so it gradually shrinks and becomes very dense as it cools, glowing white and then red, for a period many times longer than the present age of the Universe.\n\nOccasionally, a white dwarf gains mass from another source – for example, a binary star companion that is close enough for the dwarf star to siphon sufficient amounts of matter onto itself; or a collision with other stars, the siphoned matter having been expelled during the process of the companion's own late stage stellar evolution. If the white dwarf gains enough matter, its internal pressure and temperature will rise enough for carbon to begin fusing in its core. Carbon detonation generally occurs at the point when the accreted matter pushes the white dwarf's mass close to the Chandrasekhar limit of roughly 1.4 solar masses. This is the mass at which gravity can overcome the electron degeneracy pressure which had prevented the star from collapsing during its lifetime. The same also happens when two white dwarfs merge and the mass of the body formed is below the Chandrasekhar limit; if two white dwarves merge and the result is \"over\" the limit, a Type Ia supernova will occur.\n\nA main sequence star supported by thermal pressure would expand and cool which automatically counterbalances an increase in thermal energy. However, degeneracy pressure is independent of temperature; the white dwarf is unable to regulate the fusion process in the manner of normal stars, so it is vulnerable to a runaway fusion reaction.\n\nIn the case of a white dwarf, the restarted fusion reactions releases heat, but the outward pressure that exists in the star and supports it against further collapse is initially due almost entirely to degeneracy pressure, not fusion processes or heat. Therefore, even when fusion recommences the outward pressure that is key to the star's thermal balance does not increase much. One result is that the star does not expand much to balance its fusion and heat processes with gravity and electron pressure, as it did when burning hydrogen (until too late). This increase of heat production without a means of cooling by expansion raises the internal temperature dramatically, and therefore the rate of fusion also increases extremely fast as well, a form of positive feedback known as thermal runaway.\n\nA 2004 analysis of such a process states that:\n\nThe flame accelerates dramatically, in part due to the Rayleigh–Taylor instability and interactions with turbulence. The resumption of fusion spreads outward in a series of uneven, expanding \"bubbles\" in accordance with Rayleigh–Taylor instability. Within the fusion area, the increase in heat with unchanged volume results in an exponentially rapid increase in the rate of fusion – a sort of supercritical event as thermal pressure increases boundlessly. As hydrostatic equilibrium is not possible in this situation, a \"thermonuclear flame\" is triggered and an explosive eruption through the dwarf star's surface that completely disrupts it, seen as a Ia supernova.\n\nRegardless of the exact details of this nuclear fusion, it is generally accepted that a substantial fraction of the carbon and oxygen in the white dwarf is converted into heavier elements within a period of only a few seconds, raising the internal temperature to billions of degrees. This energy release from thermonuclear fusion (1–) is more than enough to unbind the star; that is, the individual particles making up the white dwarf gain enough kinetic energy to fly apart from each other. The star explodes violently and releases a shock wave in which matter is typically ejected at speeds on the order of 5,000–, roughly 6% of the speed of light. The energy released in the explosion also causes an extreme increase in luminosity. The typical visual absolute magnitude of Type Ia supernovae is M = −19.3 (about 5 billion times brighter than the Sun), with little variation. \nThis process, of a volume supported by electron degeneracy pressure instead of thermal pressure gradually reaching conditions capable of igniting runaway fusion, is also found in a less dramatic form in a helium flash in the core of a sufficiently massive red giant star.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56785984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56785984", "title": "Center for Literature and Arts, Dion", "text": "Center for Literature and Arts, Dion\n\nThe Center for Literature and Arts (Greek Κέντρο Γραμμάτων και Τεχνών) in Dion is concerned with the promotion of writers, singers, musicians and the passing on of the art of mosaic production. The association is divided into the sections literature, orchestra, choir, polyphonic choir, and mosaic. The main focus is on the youth orchestra Dion.\n\nSeat of the association is in Dion, Central Macedonia, in Greece. The association was founded in 2011 on the initiative of the former mayor of Dion, Grigoris Papachristos. He has about 170 members (as of March 2018), many of whom are artistically active. The board consists of nine members, elections take place every three years. The club is financed by the membership fees and donations, it is occasionally supported by tax revenue.\n\nThe youth orchestra (Ορχήστρα Νέων Δίου) was founded in 2007 and initially supported by the municipality Dion. In 2011, the orchestra was incorporated into the club and represents the society throughout Greece and occasionally abroad. The age of the young musicians is between eight and 25 years; Since its inception, Nikos Patris has directed the destiny of the orchestra. Mainly classical Greek music is performed. The instruments used are mainly baglamas, bouzouki, guitar and drums, occasionally singers are accompanied by classical instruments. The instruments are the property of the musicians and are not provided by the association.\n\nDue to studies, military service, education, etc. not all orchestra members live near Dion, some have other music teachers at their place of residence. At concerts of supraregional importance, the musicians meet for this performances; the number of musicians at concerts varies between 25 and 50. The orchestra has accompanied prominent Greek artists musically and performed the works of Greek composers. Some of them are:\n\n\nImportant concerts:\n\n\nIn the choir of the association about 80 singers perform, with female singers as majority. In addition to the classical choir there is a smaller group that recites polyphonic songs. Here are around 20 people active. Usually, the choir performs together with the youth orchestra.\n\nSome club members are active writers. The association supports their activities by providing a worthy framework for the publication of their books, establishing contacts with the press and providing the authors with a platform for discussion.\n\nRecent publications:\n\n\nAt the suggestion of Professor Dimitrios Pandermalis, leading archaeologist at the Dion archaeological site, south of the archaeological museum, a building was erected to teach up-and-coming artists the traditional methods of mosaic-making. The project is now managed by the Center for Literature and Arts. During the summer months, there are annual seminars run by experienced mosaic artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "5165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5165", "title": "Country", "text": "Country\n\nA country is a region that is identified as a distinct national entity in political geography. A country may be an independent sovereign state or part of a larger state, as a non-sovereign or formerly sovereign political division, or a geographic region associated with sets of previously independent or differently associated people with distinct political characteristics. Regardless of the physical geography, in the modern internationally accepted legal definition as defined by the League of Nations in 1937 and reaffirmed by the United Nations in 1945, a resident of a country is subject to the independent exercise of legal jurisdiction.\n\n\"Countries\" can refer both to sovereign states and to other political entities, while other times it can refer only to states. For example, the \"CIA World Factbook\" uses the word in its \"Country name\" field to refer to \"a wide variety of dependencies, areas of special sovereignty, uninhabited islands, and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states\".\n\nThe word \"country\" comes from Old French \"contrée\", which derives from Vulgar Latin (\"terra\") \"contrata\" (\"(land) lying opposite\"; \"(land) spread before\"), derived from \"contra\" (\"against, opposite\"). It most likely entered the English language after the Franco-Norman invasion during the 11th century.\n\nIn English the word has increasingly become associated with political divisions, so that one sense, associated with the indefinite article – \"a country\" – through misuse and subsequent conflation is now a synonym for state, or a former sovereign state, in the sense of sovereign territory or \"district, native land\". Areas much smaller than a political state may be called by names such as the West Country in England, the Black Country (a heavily industrialized part of England), \"Constable Country\" (a part of East Anglia painted by John Constable), the \"big country\" (used in various contexts of the American West), \"coal country\" (used of parts of the US and elsewhere) and many other terms.\n\nThe equivalent terms in French and other Romance languages (\"pays\" and variants) have not carried the process of being identified with political sovereign states as far as the English \"country\", instead derived from, pagus, which designated the territory controlled by a medieval count, a title originally granted by the Roman Church. In many European countries the words are used for sub-divisions of the national territory, as in the German Bundesländer, as well as a less formal term for a sovereign state. France has very many \"pays\" that are officially recognised at some level, and are either natural regions, like the Pays de Bray, or reflect old political or economic entities, like the Pays de la Loire.\n\nA version of \"country\" can be found in the modern French language as \"contrée\", based on the word \"cuntrée\" in Old French, that is used similarly to the word \"pays\" to define non-state regions, but can also be used to describe a political state in some particular cases. The modern Italian \"contrada\" is a word with its meaning varying locally, but usually meaning a ward or similar small division of a town, or a village or hamlet in the countryside.\n\nThe term \"country\" can refer to a sovereign state. There is no universal agreement on the number of \"countries\" in the world since a number of states have disputed sovereignty status. There are 206 sovereign states, of which 193 states are members of the United Nations, two states have observer status at the U.N. (the Holy See and Palestine), and 11 other states are neither a member or observer at the U.N. All are defined as states by declarative theory of statehood and constitutive theory of statehood. The latest proclaimed state is South Sudan in 2011.\n\nAlthough not sovereign states, England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are countries (depending on context), which collectively form the United Kingdom—a sovereign state that is commonly, but erroneously referred to as a country. The United Kingdom is a Union of four separate countries brought about by a series of International treaties and legislated for by several Acts of Union, the first of which being the Acts of Union 1707 in both the English and Scottish parliaments. While a political Union was created, Scotland and England retained a distinct church, legal system and education system, as a result, the issue of Sovereignty is different in the two countries, in Scotland Sovereignty lies with the people, whereas in England Sovereignty lies with Parliament and the Monarch. Lord President (Lord Cooper stated that \"the principle of the unlimited sovereignty of Parliament is a distinctively English principle which has no counterpart in Scottish Constitutional Law\", and that legislation contrary to the Act of Union would not necessarily be regarded as constitutionally valid. The Kingdom of Denmark, a sovereign state, comprises Mainland Denmark and two nominally separate countries—the Faroe Islands, and Greenland—which are almost fully internally self-governing. The Kingdom of the Netherlands, a sovereign state, comprises four separate countries: Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao, and Sint Maarten.\n\nThe degree of autonomy of non-sovereign countries varies widely. Some are possessions of sovereign states, as several states have overseas territories (such as French Polynesia or the British Virgin Islands), with citizenry at times identical and at times distinct from their own. Such territories, with the exception of distinct dependent territories, are usually listed together with sovereign states on lists of countries, but may nonetheless be treated as a separate \"country of origin\" in international trade, as Hong Kong is.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "993578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993578", "title": "Dalbergia melanoxylon", "text": "Dalbergia melanoxylon\n\nDalbergia melanoxylon (African blackwood, grenadilla, or mpingo) is a flowering plant in the family Fabaceae, native to seasonally dry regions of Africa from Senegal east to Eritrea and south to the north-eastern parts of South Africa. The tree is an important timber species in its native areas; it is used in the manufacture of musical instruments and fine furniture. Populations and genomic resources for genetic biodiversity maintenance in parts of its native range are threatened by overharvesting due to poor or absent conservation planning and by the species' low germination rates.\n\nIt is a small tree, reaching 4–15 m tall, with grey bark and spiny shoots. The leaves are deciduous in the dry season, alternate, 6–22 cm long, pinnately compound, with 6-9 alternately arranged leaflets. The flowers are white and produced in dense clusters. The fruit is a pod 3–7 cm long, containing one to two seeds.\n\nThe dense, lustrous wood ranges from reddish to pure black. It is generally cut into small billets or logs with its sharply demarcated bright yellow-white sapwood left on to assist in the slow drying so as to prevent cracks developing. Good quality \"A\" grade African blackwood commands high prices on the commercial timber market. The tonal qualities of African blackwood are particularly valued when used in woodwind instruments, principally clarinets, oboes, transverse flutes, piccolos, recorders, Highland pipes, and Northumbrian pipes. The timber is used mainly because of its machinability and dimensional stability. Deering Banjo Company uses blackwood (\"grenadilla\") to construct the tone ring in its John Hartford model banjo. Deering indicates that this reduces weight versus brass/bronze tone rings, and that the wood \"plays in\" (improves in tone) with use. Furniture makers from the time of the Egyptians have valued this timber. A story states that it has even been used as ballast in trading ships and that some enterprising Northumbrian pipe makers used old discarded blackwood ballast to great effect. The German knife companies Wüsthof, Böker and J. A. Henckels sell knives with blackwood handles due to the wood's moisture repellent qualities.\n\nDue to overuse, the mpingo tree is severely threatened in Kenya and is needing attention in Tanzania and Mozambique. The trees are being harvested at an unsustainable rate, partly because of illegal smuggling of the wood into Kenya, but also because the tree takes upwards of 60 years to mature.\n\n\nOther names by which the tree is known include \"babanus\" and \"grenadilla\", which appear as loanwords in various local English dialects.\n\nThere are multiple organisations involved in the conservation of African blackwood: the Mpingo Conservation & Development Initiative, the African Blackwood Conservation Project, and Clarinets for Conservation.\n\nThe Mpingo Conservation & Development Initiative (MCDI, formerly the Mpingo Conservation Project) is involved in research, awareness raising and practical conservation of African blackwood. Conservation of Mpingo and its natural habitat can be achieved by ensuring that local people living in mpingo harvesting areas receive a fair share of the revenue created, thus providing them with an incentive to manage the habitat in an environmentally friendly manner. In order to achieve this, the MCDI is helping communities to get Forest Stewardship Certification.\n\nThe African blackwood Conservation Project works around Mount Kilimanjaro replanting African blackwood trees, and in conservation education. It also works with adult and women's groups in the promotion of environmentally sound land uses.\n\nClarinets for Conservation is based in Moshi, Tanzania and aims to raise awareness and promote conservation of Mpingo through music education. Students participate in an interdisciplinary program during the summer months that raises awareness of the value of Mpingo through musical performances, classroom instruction, and tree plantings at local secondary and primary schools.\n\nSmall growers in Naples, Florida have been successful in growing African blackwood there. Growth habit in Florida yields taller, larger trees, and the rich soil combined with ample nutrients and long growing season yields timber of superior quality at more sustainable rates.\n\n"}
{"id": "21266768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21266768", "title": "Dennis Tirpak", "text": "Dennis Tirpak\n\nDennis A. Tirpak is an expert on Climate Change. He is a Senior Fellow at the World Resources Institute.\n\nTirpak was the director of the Global Climate Change Policy Division at the United States Environmental Protection Agency in 1984-1992. He was the Coordinator of Science and Technology at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change for nine years. He was the head of the climate change unit at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) for three years. He has also worked on the Montreal Protocol, and held positions in industry with Texaco, Alcoa, and Braddock Dunn & McDonald. His awards include an EPA Gold Medal, a U.S. Government Senior Executive Service Award, and a President’s Commission on Personnel Interchange Award.\n\nTirpak is one of the coordinating lead authors of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with former US Vice President Al Gore. He advises national governments and industry as an associate of the International Institute for Sustainable Development in Canada, and a senior fellow at the World Resources Institute in Washington, D.C.\n\nTirpak was the Chairman of the International Scientific Steering Committee for Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change Symposium on Stabilisation of Greenhouse Gas Concentrations, which took place at the invitation of the British Prime Minister Tony Blair in February 2005.\n\nIn 1989 he and Joel B. Smith co-authored the first report on global warming to Congress, \"The Potential Effects Of Global Climate Change on the United States\".\n\nTirpak has written a scientific and policy history on climate change and contributed to many publications including \"The New York Times\" in an op-ed titled \"How Green is My Taxi\" (April 22, 2007)\n\n"}
{"id": "9228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9228", "title": "Earth", "text": "Earth\n\nEarth is the third planet from the Sun and the only astronomical object known to harbor life. According to radiometric dating and other sources of evidence, Earth formed over 4.5 billion years ago. Earth's gravity interacts with other objects in space, especially the Sun and the Moon, Earth's only natural satellite. Earth revolves around the Sun in 365.26 days, a period known as an Earth year. During this time, Earth rotates about its axis about 366.26 times.\n\nEarth's axis of rotation is tilted with respect to its orbital plane, producing seasons on Earth. The gravitational interaction between Earth and the Moon causes ocean tides, stabilizes Earth's orientation on its axis, and gradually slows its rotation. Earth is the densest planet in the Solar System and the largest of the four terrestrial planets.\n\nEarth's lithosphere is divided into several rigid tectonic plates that migrate across the surface over periods of many millions of years. About 71% of Earth's surface is covered with water, mostly by oceans. The remaining 29% is land consisting of continents and islands that together have many lakes, rivers and other sources of water that contribute to the hydrosphere. The majority of Earth's polar regions are covered in ice, including the Antarctic ice sheet and the sea ice of the Arctic ice pack. Earth's interior remains active with a solid iron inner core, a liquid outer core that generates the Earth's magnetic field, and a convecting mantle that drives plate tectonics.\n\nWithin the first billion years of Earth's history, life appeared in the oceans and began to affect the Earth's atmosphere and surface, leading to the proliferation of aerobic and anaerobic organisms. Some geological evidence indicates that life may have arisen as much as 4.1 billion years ago. Since then, the combination of Earth's distance from the Sun, physical properties, and geological history have allowed life to evolve and thrive. In the history of the Earth, biodiversity has gone through long periods of expansion, occasionally punctuated by mass extinction events. Over 99% of all species that ever lived on Earth are extinct. Estimates of the number of species on Earth today vary widely; most species have not been described. Over 7.6 billion humans live on Earth and depend on its biosphere and natural resources for their survival. Humans have developed diverse societies and cultures; politically, the world has about 200 sovereign states.\n\nThe modern English word \"Earth\" developed from a wide variety of Middle English forms, which derived from an Old English noun most often spelled '. It has cognates in every Germanic language, and their proto-Germanic root has been reconstructed as *\"erþō\". In its earliest appearances, \"eorðe\" was already being used to translate the many senses of Latin ' and Greek (\"gē\"): the ground, its soil, dry land, the human world, the surface of the world (including the sea), and the globe itself. As with Terra and Gaia, Earth was a personified goddess in Germanic paganism: the Angles were listed by Tacitus as among the devotees of Nerthus, and later Norse mythology included Jörð, a giantess often given as the mother of Thor.\n\nOriginally, \"earth\" was written in lowercase, and from early Middle English, its definite sense as \"the globe\" was expressed as \"the earth\". By Early Modern English, many nouns were capitalized, and \"the earth\" became (and often remained) \"the Earth\", particularly when referenced along with other heavenly bodies. More recently, the name is sometimes simply given as \"Earth\", by analogy with the names of the other planets. House styles now vary: Oxford spelling recognizes the lowercase form as the most common, with the capitalized form an acceptable variant. Another convention capitalizes \"Earth\" when appearing as a name (e.g. \"Earth's atmosphere\") but writes it in lowercase when preceded by \"the\" (e.g. \"the atmosphere of the earth\"). It almost always appears in lowercase in colloquial expressions such as \"what on earth are you doing?\"\n\nThe oldest material found in the Solar System is dated to (Bya). By the primordial Earth had formed. The bodies in the Solar System formed and evolved with the Sun. In theory, a solar nebula partitions a volume out of a molecular cloud by gravitational collapse, which begins to spin and flatten into a circumstellar disk, and then the planets grow out of that disk with the Sun. A nebula contains gas, ice grains, and dust (including primordial nuclides). According to nebular theory, planetesimals formed by accretion, with the primordial Earth taking 10– (Mys) to form.\n\nA subject of research is the formation of the Moon, some 4.53 Bya. A leading hypothesis is that it was formed by accretion from material loosed from Earth after a Mars-sized object, named Theia, hit Earth. In this view, the mass of Theia was approximately 10 percent of Earth, it hit Earth with a glancing blow and some of its mass merged with Earth. Between approximately 4.1 and , numerous asteroid impacts during the Late Heavy Bombardment caused significant changes to the greater surface environment of the Moon and, by inference, to that of Earth.\n\nEarth's atmosphere and oceans were formed by volcanic activity and outgassing. Water vapor from these sources condensed into the oceans, augmented by water and ice from asteroids, protoplanets, and comets. In this model, atmospheric \"greenhouse gases\" kept the oceans from freezing when the newly forming Sun had only 70% of its current luminosity. By , Earth's magnetic field was established, which helped prevent the atmosphere from being stripped away by the solar wind.\n\nA crust formed when the molten outer layer of Earth cooled to form a solid. The two models that explain land mass propose either a steady growth to the present-day forms or, more likely, a rapid growth early in Earth history followed by a long-term steady continental area. Continents formed by plate tectonics, a process ultimately driven by the continuous loss of heat from Earth's interior. Over the period of hundreds of millions of years, the supercontinents have assembled and broken apart. Roughly (Mya), one of the earliest known supercontinents, Rodinia, began to break apart. The continents later recombined to form Pannotia , then finally Pangaea, which also broke apart .\n\nThe present pattern of ice ages began about and then intensified during the Pleistocene about . High-latitude regions have since undergone repeated cycles of glaciation and thaw, repeating about every . The last continental glaciation ended ago.\n\nChemical reactions led to the first self-replicating molecules about four billion years ago. A half billion years later, the last common ancestor of all current life arose. The evolution of photosynthesis allowed the Sun's energy to be harvested directly by life forms. The resultant molecular oxygen () accumulated in the atmosphere and due to interaction with ultraviolet solar radiation, formed a protective ozone layer () in the upper atmosphere. The incorporation of smaller cells within larger ones resulted in the development of complex cells called eukaryotes. True multicellular organisms formed as cells within colonies became increasingly specialized. Aided by the absorption of harmful ultraviolet radiation by the ozone layer, life colonized Earth's surface. Among the earliest fossil evidence for life is microbial mat fossils found in 3.48 billion-year-old sandstone in Western Australia, biogenic graphite found in 3.7 billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks in Western Greenland, and remains of biotic material found in 4.1 billion-year-old rocks in Western Australia. The earliest direct evidence of life on Earth is contained in 3.45 billion-year-old Australian rocks showing fossils of microorganisms.\n\nDuring the Neoproterozoic, , much of Earth might have been covered in ice. This hypothesis has been termed \"Snowball Earth\", and it is of particular interest because it preceded the Cambrian explosion, when multicellular life forms significantly increased in complexity. Following the Cambrian explosion, , there have been five mass extinctions. The most recent such event was , when an asteroid impact triggered the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs and other large reptiles, but spared some small animals such as mammals, which at the time resembled shrews. Mammalian life has diversified over the past , and several million years ago an African ape-like animal such as \"Orrorin tugenensis\" gained the ability to stand upright. This facilitated tool use and encouraged communication that provided the nutrition and stimulation needed for a larger brain, which led to the evolution of humans. The development of agriculture, and then civilization, led to humans having an influence on Earth and the nature and quantity of other life forms that continues to this day.\n\nEarth's expected long-term future is tied to that of the Sun. Over the next , solar luminosity will increase by 10%, and over the next by 40%. The Earth's increasing surface temperature will accelerate the inorganic carbon cycle, reducing concentration to levels lethally low for plants ( for C4 photosynthesis) in approximately . The lack of vegetation will result in the loss of oxygen in the atmosphere, making animal life impossible. After another billion years all surface water will have disappeared and the mean global temperature will reach . From that point, the Earth is expected to be habitable for another , possibly up to if nitrogen is removed from the atmosphere. Even if the Sun were eternal and stable, 27% of the water in the modern oceans will descend to the mantle in one billion years, due to reduced steam venting from mid-ocean ridges.\n\nThe Sun will evolve to become a red giant in about . Models predict that the Sun will expand to roughly , about 250 times its present radius. Earth's fate is less clear. As a red giant, the Sun will lose roughly 30% of its mass, so, without tidal effects, Earth will move to an orbit from the Sun when the star reaches its maximum radius. Most, if not all, remaining life will be destroyed by the Sun's increased luminosity (peaking at about 5,000 times its present level). A 2008 simulation indicates that Earth's orbit will eventually decay due to tidal effects and drag, causing it to enter the Sun's atmosphere and be vaporized.\n\nThe shape of Earth is approximately oblate spheroidal. Due to rotation, the Earth is flattened at the poles and bulging around the equator. The diameter of the Earth at the equator is larger than the pole-to-pole diameter. Thus the point on the surface farthest from Earth's center of mass is the summit of the equatorial Chimborazo volcano in Ecuador. The average diameter of the reference spheroid is . Local topography deviates from this idealized spheroid, although on a global scale these deviations are small compared to Earth's radius: The maximum deviation of only 0.17% is at the Mariana Trench ( below local sea level), whereas Mount Everest ( above local sea level) represents a deviation of 0.14%.\n\nIn geodesy, the exact shape that Earth's oceans would adopt in the absence of land and perturbations such as tides and winds is called the geoid. More precisely, the geoid is the surface of gravitational equipotential at mean sea level.\n\nEarth's mass is approximately (5,970 Yg). It is composed mostly of iron (32.1%), oxygen (30.1%), silicon (15.1%), magnesium (13.9%), sulfur (2.9%), nickel (1.8%), calcium (1.5%), and aluminium (1.4%), with the remaining 1.2% consisting of trace amounts of other elements. Due to mass segregation, the core region is estimated to be primarily composed of iron (88.8%), with smaller amounts of nickel (5.8%), sulfur (4.5%), and less than 1% trace elements.\n\nThe most common rock constituents of the crust are nearly all oxides: chlorine, sulfur, and fluorine are the important exceptions to this and their total amount in any rock is usually much less than 1%. Over 99% of the crust is composed of 11 oxides, principally silica, alumina, iron oxides, lime, magnesia, potash, and soda.\n\nEarth's interior, like that of the other terrestrial planets, is divided into layers by their chemical or physical (rheological) properties. The outer layer is a chemically distinct silicate solid crust, which is underlain by a highly viscous solid mantle. The crust is separated from the mantle by the Mohorovičić discontinuity. The thickness of the crust varies from about under the oceans to for the continents. The crust and the cold, rigid, top of the upper mantle are collectively known as the lithosphere, and it is of the lithosphere that the tectonic plates are composed. Beneath the lithosphere is the asthenosphere, a relatively low-viscosity layer on which the lithosphere rides. Important changes in crystal structure within the mantle occur at below the surface, spanning a transition zone that separates the upper and lower mantle. Beneath the mantle, an extremely low viscosity liquid outer core lies above a solid inner core. The Earth's inner core might rotate at a slightly higher angular velocity than the remainder of the planet, advancing by 0.1–0.5° per year. The radius of the inner core is about one fifth of that of Earth.\n\nEarth's internal heat comes from a combination of residual heat from planetary accretion (about 20%) and heat produced through radioactive decay (80%). The major heat-producing isotopes within Earth are potassium-40, uranium-238, and thorium-232. At the center, the temperature may be up to , and the pressure could reach . Because much of the heat is provided by radioactive decay, scientists postulate that early in Earth's history, before isotopes with short half-lives were depleted, Earth's heat production was much higher. At approximately , twice the present-day heat would have been produced, increasing the rates of mantle convection and plate tectonics, and allowing the production of uncommon igneous rocks such as komatiites that are rarely formed today.\n\nThe mean heat loss from Earth is , for a global heat loss of . A portion of the core's thermal energy is transported toward the crust by mantle plumes, a form of convection consisting of upwellings of higher-temperature rock. These plumes can produce hotspots and flood basalts. More of the heat in Earth is lost through plate tectonics, by mantle upwelling associated with mid-ocean ridges. The final major mode of heat loss is through conduction through the lithosphere, the majority of which occurs under the oceans because the crust there is much thinner than that of the continents.\n\nEarth's mechanically rigid outer layer, the lithosphere, is divided into tectonic plates. These plates are rigid segments that move relative to each other at one of three boundaries types: At convergent boundaries, two plates come together; at divergent boundaries, two plates are pulled apart; and at transform boundaries, two plates slide past one another laterally. Along these plate boundaries, earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation can occur. The tectonic plates ride on top of the asthenosphere, the solid but less-viscous part of the upper mantle that can flow and move along with the plates.\n\nAs the tectonic plates migrate, oceanic crust is subducted under the leading edges of the plates at convergent boundaries. At the same time, the upwelling of mantle material at divergent boundaries creates mid-ocean ridges. The combination of these processes recycles the oceanic crust back into the mantle. Due to this recycling, most of the ocean floor is less than old. The oldest oceanic crust is located in the Western Pacific and is estimated to be old. By comparison, the oldest dated continental crust is .\n\nThe seven major plates are the Pacific, North American, Eurasian, African, Antarctic, Indo-Australian, and South American. Other notable plates include the Arabian Plate, the Caribbean Plate, the Nazca Plate off the west coast of South America and the Scotia Plate in the southern Atlantic Ocean. The Australian Plate fused with the Indian Plate between . The fastest-moving plates are the oceanic plates, with the Cocos Plate advancing at a rate of and the Pacific Plate moving . At the other extreme, the slowest-moving plate is the Eurasian Plate, progressing at a typical rate of .\n\nThe total surface area of Earth is about . Of this, 70.8%, or , is below sea level and covered by ocean water. Below the ocean's surface are much of the continental shelf, mountains, volcanoes, oceanic trenches, submarine canyons, oceanic plateaus, abyssal plains, and a globe-spanning mid-ocean ridge system. The remaining 29.2%, or , not covered by water has terrain that varies greatly from place to place and consists of mountains, deserts, plains, plateaus, and other landforms. Tectonics and erosion, volcanic eruptions, flooding, weathering, glaciation, the growth of coral reefs, and meteorite impacts are among the processes that constantly reshape the Earth's surface over geological time.\n\nThe continental crust consists of lower density material such as the igneous rocks granite and andesite. Less common is basalt, a denser volcanic rock that is the primary constituent of the ocean floors. Sedimentary rock is formed from the accumulation of sediment that becomes buried and compacted together. Nearly 75% of the continental surfaces are covered by sedimentary rocks, although they form about 5% of the crust. The third form of rock material found on Earth is metamorphic rock, which is created from the transformation of pre-existing rock types through high pressures, high temperatures, or both. The most abundant silicate minerals on Earth's surface include quartz, feldspars, amphibole, mica, pyroxene and olivine. Common carbonate minerals include calcite (found in limestone) and dolomite.\n\nThe elevation of the land surface varies from the low point of at the Dead Sea, to a maximum altitude of at the top of Mount Everest. The mean height of land above sea level is about .\n\nThe pedosphere is the outermost layer of Earth's continental surface and is composed of soil and subject to soil formation processes. The total arable land is 10.9% of the land surface, with 1.3% being permanent cropland. Close to 40% of Earth's land surface is used for agriculture, or an estimated of cropland and of pastureland.\n\nThe abundance of water on Earth's surface is a unique feature that distinguishes the \"Blue Planet\" from other planets in the Solar System. Earth's hydrosphere consists chiefly of the oceans, but technically includes all water surfaces in the world, including inland seas, lakes, rivers, and underground waters down to a depth of . The deepest underwater location is Challenger Deep of the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean with a depth of .\n\nThe mass of the oceans is approximately 1.35 metric tons or about 1/4400 of Earth's total mass. The oceans cover an area of with a mean depth of , resulting in an estimated volume of . If all of Earth's crustal surface were at the same elevation as a smooth sphere, the depth of the resulting world ocean would be .\n\nAbout 97.5% of the water is saline; the remaining 2.5% is fresh water. Most fresh water, about 68.7%, is present as ice in ice caps and glaciers.\n\nThe average salinity of Earth's oceans is about 35 grams of salt per kilogram of sea water (3.5% salt). Most of this salt was released from volcanic activity or extracted from cool igneous rocks. The oceans are also a reservoir of dissolved atmospheric gases, which are essential for the survival of many aquatic life forms. Sea water has an important influence on the world's climate, with the oceans acting as a large heat reservoir. Shifts in the oceanic temperature distribution can cause significant weather shifts, such as the El Niño–Southern Oscillation.\n\nThe atmospheric pressure at Earth's sea level averages , with a scale height of about . A dry atmosphere is composed of 78.084% nitrogen, 20.946% oxygen, 0.934% argon, and trace amounts of carbon dioxide and other gaseous molecules. Water vapor content varies between 0.01% and 4% but averages about 1%. The height of the troposphere varies with latitude, ranging between at the poles to at the equator, with some variation resulting from weather and seasonal factors.\n\nEarth's biosphere has significantly altered its atmosphere. Oxygenic photosynthesis evolved , forming the primarily nitrogen–oxygen atmosphere of today. This change enabled the proliferation of aerobic organisms and, indirectly, the formation of the ozone layer due to the subsequent conversion of atmospheric into. The ozone layer blocks ultraviolet solar radiation, permitting life on land. Other atmospheric functions important to life include transporting water vapor, providing useful gases, causing small meteors to burn up before they strike the surface, and moderating temperature. This last phenomenon is known as the greenhouse effect: trace molecules within the atmosphere serve to capture thermal energy emitted from the ground, thereby raising the average temperature. Water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and ozone are the primary greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Without this heat-retention effect, the average surface temperature would be , in contrast to the current , and life on Earth probably would not exist in its current form. In May 2017, glints of light, seen as twinkling from an orbiting satellite a million miles away, were found to be reflected light from ice crystals in the atmosphere.\n\nEarth's atmosphere has no definite boundary, slowly becoming thinner and fading into outer space. Three-quarters of the atmosphere's mass is contained within the first of the surface. This lowest layer is called the troposphere. Energy from the Sun heats this layer, and the surface below, causing expansion of the air. This lower-density air then rises and is replaced by cooler, higher-density air. The result is atmospheric circulation that drives the weather and climate through redistribution of thermal energy.\n\nThe primary atmospheric circulation bands consist of the trade winds in the equatorial region below 30° latitude and the westerlies in the mid-latitudes between 30° and 60°. Ocean currents are also important factors in determining climate, particularly the thermohaline circulation that distributes thermal energy from the equatorial oceans to the polar regions.\n\nWater vapor generated through surface evaporation is transported by circulatory patterns in the atmosphere. When atmospheric conditions permit an uplift of warm, humid air, this water condenses and falls to the surface as precipitation. Most of the water is then transported to lower elevations by river systems and usually returned to the oceans or deposited into lakes. This water cycle is a vital mechanism for supporting life on land and is a primary factor in the erosion of surface features over geological periods. Precipitation patterns vary widely, ranging from several meters of water per year to less than a millimeter. Atmospheric circulation, topographic features, and temperature differences determine the average precipitation that falls in each region.\n\nThe amount of solar energy reaching Earth's surface decreases with increasing latitude. At higher latitudes, the sunlight reaches the surface at lower angles, and it must pass through thicker columns of the atmosphere. As a result, the mean annual air temperature at sea level decreases by about per degree of latitude from the equator. Earth's surface can be subdivided into specific latitudinal belts of approximately homogeneous climate. Ranging from the equator to the polar regions, these are the tropical (or equatorial), subtropical, temperate and polar climates.\n\nThis latitudinal rule has several anomalies:\n\nThe commonly used Köppen climate classification system has five broad groups (humid tropics, arid, humid middle latitudes, continental and cold polar), which are further divided into more specific subtypes. The Köppen system rates regions of terrain based on observed temperature and precipitation.\n\nThe highest air temperature ever measured on Earth was in Furnace Creek, California, in Death Valley, in 1913. The lowest air temperature ever directly measured on Earth was at Vostok Station in 1983, but satellites have used remote sensing to measure temperatures as low as in East Antarctica. These temperature records are only measurements made with modern instruments from the 20th century onwards and likely do not reflect the full range of temperature on Earth.\n\nAbove the troposphere, the atmosphere is usually divided into the stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. Each layer has a different lapse rate, defining the rate of change in temperature with height. Beyond these, the exosphere thins out into the magnetosphere, where the geomagnetic fields interact with the solar wind. Within the stratosphere is the ozone layer, a component that partially shields the surface from ultraviolet light and thus is important for life on Earth. The Kármán line, defined as 100 km above Earth's surface, is a working definition for the boundary between the atmosphere and outer space.\n\nThermal energy causes some of the molecules at the outer edge of the atmosphere to increase their velocity to the point where they can escape from Earth's gravity. This causes a slow but steady loss of the atmosphere into space. Because unfixed hydrogen has a low molecular mass, it can achieve escape velocity more readily, and it leaks into outer space at a greater rate than other gases. The leakage of hydrogen into space contributes to the shifting of Earth's atmosphere and surface from an initially reducing state to its current oxidizing one. Photosynthesis provided a source of free oxygen, but the loss of reducing agents such as hydrogen is thought to have been a necessary precondition for the widespread accumulation of oxygen in the atmosphere. Hence the ability of hydrogen to escape from the atmosphere may have influenced the nature of life that developed on Earth. In the current, oxygen-rich atmosphere most hydrogen is converted into water before it has an opportunity to escape. Instead, most of the hydrogen loss comes from the destruction of methane in the upper atmosphere.\n\nThe gravity of Earth is the acceleration that is imparted to objects due to the distribution of mass within the Earth. Near the Earth's surface, gravitational acceleration is approximately . Local differences in topography, geology, and deeper tectonic structure cause local and broad, regional differences in the Earth's gravitational field, known as gravity anomalies.\n\nThe main part of Earth's magnetic field is generated in the core, the site of a dynamo process that converts the kinetic energy of thermally and compositionally driven convection into electrical and magnetic field energy. The field extends outwards from the core, through the mantle, and up to Earth's surface, where it is, approximately, a dipole. The poles of the dipole are located close to Earth's geographic poles. At the equator of the magnetic field, the magnetic-field strength at the surface is , with global magnetic dipole moment of . The convection movements in the core are chaotic; the magnetic poles drift and periodically change alignment. This causes secular variation of the main field and field reversals at irregular intervals averaging a few times every million years. The most recent reversal occurred approximately 700,000 years ago.\n\nThe extent of Earth's magnetic field in space defines the magnetosphere. Ions and electrons of the solar wind are deflected by the magnetosphere; solar wind pressure compresses the dayside of the magnetosphere, to about 10 Earth radii, and extends the nightside magnetosphere into a long tail. Because the velocity of the solar wind is greater than the speed at which waves propagate through the solar wind, a supersonic bowshock precedes the dayside magnetosphere within the solar wind. Charged particles are contained within the magnetosphere; the plasmasphere is defined by low-energy particles that essentially follow magnetic field lines as Earth rotates; the ring current is defined by medium-energy particles that drift relative to the geomagnetic field, but with paths that are still dominated by the magnetic field, and the Van Allen radiation belt are formed by high-energy particles whose motion is essentially random, but otherwise contained by the magnetosphere.\n\nDuring magnetic storms and substorms, charged particles can be deflected from the outer magnetosphere and especially the magnetotail, directed along field lines into Earth's ionosphere, where atmospheric atoms can be excited and ionized, causing the aurora.\n\nEarth's rotation period relative to the Sun—its mean solar day—is of mean solar time (). Because Earth's solar day is now slightly longer than it was during the 19th century due to tidal deceleration, each day varies between longer.\n\nEarth's rotation period relative to the fixed stars, called its \"stellar day\" by the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service (IERS), is of mean solar time (UT1), or Earth's rotation period relative to the precessing or moving mean vernal equinox, misnamed its \"sidereal day\", is of mean solar time (UT1) . Thus the sidereal day is shorter than the stellar day by about 8.4 ms. The length of the mean solar day in SI seconds is available from the IERS for the periods 1623–2005 and 1962–2005.\n\nApart from meteors within the atmosphere and low-orbiting satellites, the main apparent motion of celestial bodies in Earth's sky is to the west at a rate of 15°/h = 15'/min. For bodies near the celestial equator, this is equivalent to an apparent diameter of the Sun or the Moon every two minutes; from Earth's surface, the apparent sizes of the Sun and the Moon are approximately the same.\n\nEarth orbits the Sun at an average distance of about every 365.2564 mean solar days, or one sidereal year. This gives an apparent movement of the Sun eastward with respect to the stars at a rate of about 1°/day, which is one apparent Sun or Moon diameter every 12 hours. Due to this motion, on average it takes 24 hours—a solar day—for Earth to complete a full rotation about its axis so that the Sun returns to the meridian. The orbital speed of Earth averages about , which is fast enough to travel a distance equal to Earth's diameter, about , in seven minutes, and the distance to the Moon, , in about 3.5 hours.\n\nThe Moon and Earth orbit a common barycenter every 27.32 days relative to the background stars. When combined with the Earth–Moon system's common orbit around the Sun, the period of the synodic month, from new moon to new moon, is 29.53 days. Viewed from the celestial north pole, the motion of Earth, the Moon, and their axial rotations are all counterclockwise. Viewed from a vantage point above the north poles of both the Sun and Earth, Earth orbits in a counterclockwise direction about the Sun. The orbital and axial planes are not precisely aligned: Earth's axis is tilted some 23.44 degrees from the perpendicular to the Earth–Sun plane (the ecliptic), and the Earth–Moon plane is tilted up to ±5.1 degrees against the Earth–Sun plane. Without this tilt, there would be an eclipse every two weeks, alternating between lunar eclipses and solar eclipses.\n\nThe Hill sphere, or the sphere of gravitational influence, of the Earth is about in radius. This is the maximum distance at which the Earth's gravitational influence is stronger than the more distant Sun and planets. Objects must orbit the Earth within this radius, or they can become unbound by the gravitational perturbation of the Sun.\n\nEarth, along with the Solar System, is situated in the Milky Way and orbits about 28,000 light-years from its center. It is about 20 light-years above the galactic plane in the Orion Arm.\n\nThe axial tilt of the Earth is approximately 23.439281° with the axis of its orbit plane, always pointing towards the Celestial Poles. Due to Earth's axial tilt, the amount of sunlight reaching any given point on the surface varies over the course of the year. This causes the seasonal change in climate, with summer in the Northern Hemisphere occurring when the Tropic of Cancer is facing the Sun, and winter taking place when the Tropic of Capricorn in the Southern Hemisphere faces the Sun. During the summer, the day lasts longer, and the Sun climbs higher in the sky. In winter, the climate becomes cooler and the days shorter. In northern temperate latitudes, the Sun rises north of true east during the summer solstice, and sets north of true west, reversing in the winter. The Sun rises south of true east in the summer for the southern temperate zone and sets south of true west.\n\nAbove the Arctic Circle, an extreme case is reached where there is no daylight at all for part of the year, up to six months at the North Pole itself, a polar night. In the Southern Hemisphere, the situation is exactly reversed, with the South Pole oriented opposite the direction of the North Pole. Six months later, this pole will experience a midnight sun, a day of 24 hours, again reversing with the South Pole.\n\nBy astronomical convention, the four seasons can be determined by the solstices—the points in the orbit of maximum axial tilt toward or away from the Sun—and the equinoxes, when the direction of the tilt and the direction to the Sun are perpendicular. In the Northern Hemisphere, winter solstice currently occurs around 21 December; summer solstice is near 21 June, spring equinox is around 20 March and autumnal equinox is about 22 or 23 September. In the Southern Hemisphere, the situation is reversed, with the summer and winter solstices exchanged and the spring and autumnal equinox dates swapped.\n\nThe angle of Earth's axial tilt is relatively stable over long periods of time. Its axial tilt does undergo nutation; a slight, irregular motion with a main period of 18.6 years. The orientation (rather than the angle) of Earth's axis also changes over time, precessing around in a complete circle over each 25,800 year cycle; this precession is the reason for the difference between a sidereal year and a tropical year. Both of these motions are caused by the varying attraction of the Sun and the Moon on Earth's equatorial bulge. The poles also migrate a few meters across Earth's surface. This polar motion has multiple, cyclical components, which collectively are termed quasiperiodic motion. In addition to an annual component to this motion, there is a 14-month cycle called the Chandler wobble. Earth's rotational velocity also varies in a phenomenon known as length-of-day variation.\n\nIn modern times, Earth's perihelion occurs around 3 January, and its aphelion around 4 July. These dates change over time due to precession and other orbital factors, which follow cyclical patterns known as Milankovitch cycles. The changing Earth–Sun distance causes an increase of about 6.9% in solar energy reaching Earth at perihelion relative to aphelion. Because the Southern Hemisphere is tilted toward the Sun at about the same time that Earth reaches the closest approach to the Sun, the Southern Hemisphere receives slightly more energy from the Sun than does the northern over the course of a year. This effect is much less significant than the total energy change due to the axial tilt, and most of the excess energy is absorbed by the higher proportion of water in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nA study from 2016 suggested that Planet Nine tilted all Solar System planets, including Earth's, by about six degrees.\n\nA planet that can sustain life is termed habitable, even if life did not originate there. Earth provides liquid water—an environment where complex organic molecules can assemble and interact, and sufficient energy to sustain metabolism. The distance of Earth from the Sun, as well as its orbital eccentricity, rate of rotation, axial tilt, geological history, sustaining atmosphere, and magnetic field all contribute to the current climatic conditions at the surface.\n\nA planet's life forms inhabit ecosystems, whose total is sometimes said to form a \"biosphere\". Earth's biosphere is thought to have begun evolving about . The biosphere is divided into a number of biomes, inhabited by broadly similar plants and animals. On land, biomes are separated primarily by differences in latitude, height above sea level and humidity. Terrestrial biomes lying within the Arctic or Antarctic Circles, at high altitudes or in extremely arid areas are relatively barren of plant and animal life; species diversity reaches a peak in humid lowlands at equatorial latitudes.\n\nIn July 2016, scientists reported identifying a set of 355 genes from the last universal common ancestor (LUCA) of all organisms living on Earth.\n\nEarth has resources that have been exploited by humans. Those termed non-renewable resources, such as fossil fuels, only renew over geological timescales.\n\nLarge deposits of fossil fuels are obtained from Earth's crust, consisting of coal, petroleum, and natural gas. These deposits are used by humans both for energy production and as feedstock for chemical production. Mineral ore bodies have also been formed within the crust through a process of ore genesis, resulting from actions of magmatism, erosion, and plate tectonics. These bodies form concentrated sources for many metals and other useful elements.\n\nEarth's biosphere produces many useful biological products for humans, including food, wood, pharmaceuticals, oxygen, and the recycling of many organic wastes. The land-based ecosystem depends upon topsoil and fresh water, and the oceanic ecosystem depends upon dissolved nutrients washed down from the land. In 1980, of Earth's land surface consisted of forest and woodlands, was grasslands and pasture, and was cultivated as croplands. The estimated amount of irrigated land in 1993 was . Humans also live on the land by using building materials to construct shelters.\n\nLarge areas of Earth's surface are subject to extreme weather such as tropical cyclones, hurricanes, or typhoons that dominate life in those areas. From 1980 to 2000, these events caused an average of 11,800 human deaths per year. Many places are subject to earthquakes, landslides, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, tornadoes, sinkholes, blizzards, floods, droughts, wildfires, and other calamities and disasters.\n\nMany localized areas are subject to human-made pollution of the air and water, acid rain and toxic substances, loss of vegetation (overgrazing, deforestation, desertification), loss of wildlife, species extinction, soil degradation, soil depletion and erosion.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus linking human activities to global warming due to industrial carbon dioxide emissions. This is predicted to produce changes such as the melting of glaciers and ice sheets, more extreme temperature ranges, significant changes in weather and a global rise in average sea levels.\n\nCartography, the study and practice of map-making, and geography, the study of the lands, features, inhabitants and phenomena on Earth, have historically been the disciplines devoted to depicting Earth. Surveying, the determination of locations and distances, and to a lesser extent navigation, the determination of position and direction, have developed alongside cartography and geography, providing and suitably quantifying the requisite information.\n\nEarth's human population reached approximately seven billion on 31 October 2011. Projections indicate that the world's human population will reach 9.2 billion in 2050. Most of the growth is expected to take place in developing nations. Human population density varies widely around the world, but a majority live in Asia. By 2020, 60% of the world's population is expected to be living in urban, rather than rural, areas.\n\nIt is estimated that one-eighth of Earth's surface is suitable for humans to live on – three-quarters of Earth's surface is covered by oceans, leaving one-quarter as land. Half of that land area is desert (14%), high mountains (27%), or other unsuitable terrains. The northernmost permanent settlement in the world is Alert, on Ellesmere Island in Nunavut, Canada. (82°28′N) The southernmost is the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station, in Antarctica, almost exactly at the South Pole. (90°S)\nIndependent sovereign nations claim the planet's entire land surface, except for some parts of Antarctica, a few land parcels along the Danube river's western bank, and the unclaimed area of Bir Tawil between Egypt and Sudan. , there are 193 sovereign states that are member states of the United Nations, plus two observer states and 72 dependent territories and states with limited recognition. Earth has never had a sovereign government with authority over the entire globe, although some nation-states have striven for world domination and failed.\n\nThe United Nations is a worldwide intergovernmental organization that was created with the goal of intervening in the disputes between nations, thereby avoiding armed conflict. The U.N. serves primarily as a forum for international diplomacy and international law. When the consensus of the membership permits, it provides a mechanism for armed intervention.\n\nThe first human to orbit Earth was Yuri Gagarin on 12 April 1961. In total, about 487 people have visited outer space and reached orbit , and, of these, twelve have walked on the Moon. Normally, the only humans in space are those on the International Space Station. The station's crew, made up of six people, is usually replaced every six months. The farthest that humans have traveled from Earth is , achieved during the Apollo 13 mission in 1970.\n\nThe Moon is a relatively large, terrestrial, planet-like natural satellite, with a diameter about one-quarter of Earth's. It is the largest moon in the Solar System relative to the size of its planet, although Charon is larger relative to the dwarf planet Pluto. The natural satellites of other planets are also referred to as \"moons\", after Earth's.\n\nThe gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon causes tides on Earth. The same effect on the Moon has led to its tidal locking: its rotation period is the same as the time it takes to orbit Earth. As a result, it always presents the same face to the planet. As the Moon orbits Earth, different parts of its face are illuminated by the Sun, leading to the lunar phases; the dark part of the face is separated from the light part by the solar terminator.\nDue to their tidal interaction, the Moon recedes from Earth at the rate of approximately . Over millions of years, these tiny modifications—and the lengthening of Earth's day by about 23 µs/yr—add up to significant changes. During the Devonian period, for example, (approximately ) there were 400 days in a year, with each day lasting 21.8 hours.\n\nThe Moon may have dramatically affected the development of life by moderating the planet's climate. Paleontological evidence and computer simulations show that Earth's axial tilt is stabilized by tidal interactions with the Moon. Some theorists think that without this stabilization against the torques applied by the Sun and planets to Earth's equatorial bulge, the rotational axis might be chaotically unstable, exhibiting chaotic changes over millions of years, as appears to be the case for Mars.\n\nViewed from Earth, the Moon is just far enough away to have almost the same apparent-sized disk as the Sun. The angular size (or solid angle) of these two bodies match because, although the Sun's diameter is about 400 times as large as the Moon's, it is also 400 times more distant. This allows total and annular solar eclipses to occur on Earth.\n\nThe most widely accepted theory of the Moon's origin, the giant-impact hypothesis, states that it formed from the collision of a Mars-size protoplanet called Theia with the early Earth. This hypothesis explains (among other things) the Moon's relative lack of iron and volatile elements and the fact that its composition is nearly identical to that of Earth's crust.\n\nEarth has at least five co-orbital asteroids, including 3753 Cruithne and . A trojan asteroid companion, , is librating around the leading Lagrange triangular point, L4, in the Earth's orbit around the Sun.\n\nThe tiny near-Earth asteroid makes close approaches to the Earth–Moon system roughly every twenty years. During these approaches, it can orbit Earth for brief periods of time.\n\n, there are 1,886 operational, human-made satellites orbiting Earth. There are also inoperative satellites, including Vanguard 1, the oldest satellite currently in orbit, and over 16,000 pieces of tracked space debris. Earth's largest artificial satellite is the International Space Station.\n\nThe standard astronomical symbol of Earth consists of a cross circumscribed by a circle, , representing the four corners of the world.\n\nHuman cultures have developed many views of the planet. Earth is sometimes personified as a deity. In many cultures it is a mother goddess that is also the primary fertility deity, and by the mid-20th century, the Gaia Principle compared Earth's environments and life as a single self-regulating organism leading to broad stabilization of the conditions of habitability. Creation myths in many religions involve the creation of Earth by a supernatural deity or deities.\n\nScientific investigation has resulted in several culturally transformative shifts in people's view of the planet. Initial belief in a flat Earth was gradually displaced in the Greek colonies of southern Italy during the late 6th century BC by the idea of spherical Earth, which was attributed to both the philosophers Pythagoras and Parmenides. By the end of the 5th century BC, the sphericity of Earth was universally accepted among Greek intellectuals. Earth was generally believed to be the center of the universe until the 16th century, when scientists first conclusively demonstrated that it was a moving object, comparable to the other planets in the Solar System. Due to the efforts of influential Christian scholars and clerics such as James Ussher, who sought to determine the age of Earth through analysis of genealogies in Scripture, Westerners before the 19th century generally believed Earth to be a few thousand years old at most. It was only during the 19th century that geologists realized Earth's age was at least many millions of years.\n\nLord Kelvin used thermodynamics to estimate the age of Earth to be between 20 million and 400 million years in 1864, sparking a vigorous debate on the subject; it was only when radioactivity and radioactive dating were discovered in the late 19th and early 20th centuries that a reliable mechanism for determining Earth's age was established, proving the planet to be billions of years old. The perception of Earth shifted again in the 20th century when humans first viewed it from orbit, and especially with photographs of Earth returned by the Apollo program.\n\n</math>, where \"m\" is the mass of Earth, \"a\" is an astronomical unit, and \"M\" is the mass of the Sun. So the radius in AU is about formula_1.</ref>\n\n"}
{"id": "2782964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2782964", "title": "Emma Richards (sailor)", "text": "Emma Richards (sailor)\n\nEmma Richards MBE is a British yachtswoman. In 2002–2003, she became the first British woman and youngest person to complete the Around Alone, a 29,000 mile, single-handed round the world yacht race with stops. She was a crew member during the Volvo Ocean Race 2001.\n\nHer talent comes from spending so much time sailing, from a young age. At 11 she competed in dinghy world championships. She took a degree in sports medicine at the University of Glasgow. She was awarded an MBE in the New Years Honours List 2004, in recognition of her remarkable achievements.\n\n"}
{"id": "38645998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38645998", "title": "Energy Act 2013", "text": "Energy Act 2013\n\nThe Energy Act 2013 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, relating to the energy sector. It succeeded the Energy Act 2010. The Act focuses on setting decarbonisation targets for the UK, and reforming the electricity market. The Act was intended by Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change Ed Davey to \"attract investment to bring about a once-in-a-generation transformation of our electricity market\".\n\nThe Energy Bill was introduced by the government in the House of Commons for first reading on 29 November 2012, and passed a vote at third reading with cross-party support on 4 June 2013. The Bill received Royal Assent on 18 December 2013.\n\nThe Act aims to maintain a stable electricity supply as coal-fired power stations are retired. This includes facilitating the building of a new set of nuclear power stations and the establishment of a new regulator, the Office for Nuclear Regulation.\n\nThe Act proposes a delay in setting decarbonisation targets under the Climate Change Act 2008, until 2016. Businesses and analysts have criticised the uncertainty this causes for investors, notably Balfour Beatty and Ernst & Young. Conservative MP Tim Yeo and Labour MP Barry Gardiner tabled amendments to the Bill to reinsert a 2030 decarbonisation target for the power sector by 2014.\n\nThe Act also enables the government to privatise the Government Pipelines and Storage System.\n\n"}
{"id": "53060391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53060391", "title": "Eta Coronae Australis", "text": "Eta Coronae Australis\n\nThe Bayer designation η Coronae Australis (Eta Coronae Australis) is shared by two stars, in the constellation Corona Australis:\n"}
{"id": "324108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324108", "title": "Fishes of the World", "text": "Fishes of the World\n\nFishes of the World by Joseph S. Nelson is a standard reference for fish systematics. Now in its fifth edition (2016), the work is a comprehensive overview of the diversity and classification of the 30,000-plus fish species known to science.\n\nThe book begins with a general overview of ichthyology, although it is not self-contained. After a short section on Chordata and non-fish taxa, the work lists all known fish families in a systematic fashion. Each family gets at least one paragraph, and usually a body outline drawing; large families have subfamilies and tribes described as well. Notable genera and species are mentioned, while the book generally does not deal with the species-level diversity. The complexities of the higher taxa are described succinctly, with many references for difficult points. The book does not involve color illustrations.\n\nThe fourth edition was the first to incorporate the wide use of DNA analysis, revising many earlier classifications.\n\nThe first edition appeared in 1976, the second in 1984, the third in 1994 (John Wiley & Sons, ), the fourth in March 2006 (), and the fifth in April 2016 ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8315509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8315509", "title": "Flora of Malta", "text": "Flora of Malta\n\nTypical Flora of Malta consists of the following plants and flowers. While small compared to other countries, the Maltese Islands contain special flowers that grow on islands such as Malta, Gozo, Comino, Filfla, St Paul's Islands and Fungus Rock.\n\n\nA rare endemic bush growing up to one metre and found only on the western cliffs of Gozo and on Fungus Rock. Its bright yellow flowers can be seen around May and June. Its long and narrow whitish leaves have a covering of short hair.\n\n\nA very scarce wild flower found mainly in garrigue, where occasionally it is the dominant species. Its pinkish red large flowers appear in spring, on a shrub with sticky leaves.\n\n\nA rare perennial evergreen climber with thorny stems, glossy compound leaves and shiny red fruit. Its white flowers appear in spring and early summer. Found growing in maquis and on the sides of sheltered valleys.\n\n\nA common perennial with very large spiny leaves, generally flowering in early summer. It has large deep bluish-violet flower heads, and grows in steppes, especially on clay and garrigue, sometimes even on disturbed ground..\n\n\nA scarce endemic orchid, resembling the common Pyramidal Orchid, but having smaller and paler pink or white flowers. Flowers can be found from February to April in garrigue and rocky steppes.\n\n\nA rare annual wild flower with delicate fine leaves and bright red flowers appearing during the months of winter and spring. They grow in cultivated land. Heavily persecuted through picking.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nwww.Maltawildplants.com\n"}
{"id": "41168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41168", "title": "Forward scatter", "text": "Forward scatter\n\nIn physics, telecommunications, and astronomy, forward scatter is the deflection—by diffraction, nonhomogeneous refraction, or nonspecular reflection by particulate matter of dimensions that are large with respect to the wavelength in question but small with respect to the beam diameter—of a portion of an incident electromagnetic wave, in such a manner that the energy so deflected propagates in a direction that is within 90° of the direction of propagation of the incident wave (i.e., a phase angle greater than 90°). \n\nThe scattering process may be sensitive to polarization; that is, the polarization of incident waves that are identical in every respect may be scattered differently. Forward scatter differs from backscatter.\n\nForward scattering can make a back-lit comet appear significantly brighter because the dust and ice crystals are reflecting and enhancing the apparent brightness of the comet by scattering that light towards the observer. Comets studied forward-scattering in visible-thermal photometry include C/1927 X1 (Skjellerup–Maristany), C/1975 V1 (West), and C/1980 Y1 (Bradfield). Comets studied forward-scattering in SOHO non-thermal C3 coronograph photometry include 96P/Machholz and C/2004 F4 (Bradfield). The brightness of the great comets C/2006 P1 (McNaught) and Comet Skjellerup–Maristany near perihelion were enhanced by forward scattering.\n\n"}
{"id": "27959267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27959267", "title": "Harmomegathy", "text": "Harmomegathy\n\nHarmomegathy is the process by which pollen grains in arid environments close off their apertures to avoid losing water. This folding of the pollen grain prevents water loss until it arrives in a wetter environment.\n"}
{"id": "5765905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5765905", "title": "Hobart Muir Smith", "text": "Hobart Muir Smith\n\nHobart Muir Smith, born Frederick William Stouffer (September 26, 1912 – March 4, 2013), was an American herpetologist. He is credited with describing more than 100 new species of American reptiles and amphibians. In addition, he has been honored by having at least six species named after him, including the southwestern blackhead snake (\"Tantilla hobartsmithi\" ), Smith's earth snake (\"Uropeltis grandis\" ), Smith's arboreal alligator lizard (\"Abronia smithi\" ), Hobart's anadia (\"Anadia hobarti\" ), Hobart Smith's anole (\"Anolis hobartsmithi\" ), and Smith's rose-bellied lizard (\"Sceloporus smithi\"\" ). At 100 years of age, Smith continued to be an active and productive herpetologist. Having published more than 1,600 manuscripts, he surpassed all contemporaries and remains the most published herpetologist of all time.\n\nSmith was born in Stanwood, Iowa on September 26, 1912. Smith attained his bachelor of science in 1932 from Kansas State University, under Howard K. Gloyd, and attained his masters (in 1933) and doctorate (in 1936) at the University of Kansas under Dr. Edward Harrison Taylor, where his thesis was a revision of the lizard genus \"Sceloporus\". He also participated in several specimen collecting trips to Mexico.\n\nIn 1936 Smith was awarded a National Research Council Fellowship at the University of Michigan, where he worked with several other researchers to write and publish \"The Mexican and Central American Lizards of the Genus Sceloporus\". In 1937 he worked for both the Chicago Academy of Sciences and the Field Museum of Natural History. He was given a fellowship by the Smithsonian Institution to collect specimens in Mexico, and collected over 20,000. From 1941 until 1945 he was a zoology professor at the University of Rochester, in New York. In 1945 he returned to the University of Kansas as an associate professor and wrote the \"Handbook of Lizards, Lizards of the US and of Canada\". In 1946 he moved to Texas and became an associate professor of wildlife management at Texas A&M University and wrote \"Checklist and key to snakes of Mexico\" and \"Checklist and key to amphibians of Mexico\" with Taylor. From 1947 until 1968 he was a professor of zoology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He retired in 1968 and moved to Boulder, Colorado, where he became a professor of biology at the University of Colorado. In 1972 he became chairman of, what is now, the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. In 1983 he retired, becoming a professor emeritus and continued his personal research with over 1,600 publications, including 29 books.\n\nBorn Frederick William Stouffer in 1912, he was adopted in 1916 by Charles and Frances Smith, farmers. In 1938 he married Rozella Pearl Beverly Blood (who became Rozella Pearl Beverly Blood Smith, 1911–1987), who helped him publish his extensive collection of herpetological notes. In 1942 he named a species of lizard in honor of her, \"Diploglossus rozellae\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20370216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20370216", "title": "Hydrogen-cooled turbo generator", "text": "Hydrogen-cooled turbo generator\n\nA hydrogen-cooled turbo generator is a turbo generator with gaseous hydrogen as a coolant. Hydrogen-cooled turbo generators are designed to provide a low-drag atmosphere and cooling for single-shaft and combined-cycle applications in combination with steam turbines. Because of the high thermal conductivity and other favorable properties of hydrogen gas this is the most common type in its field today.\n\nBased on the air-cooled turbo generator, gaseous hydrogen first went into service as the coolant in a hydrogen-cooled turbo generator in October 1937, at the Dayton Power & Light Co. in Dayton, Ohio.\n\nThe use of gaseous hydrogen as a coolant is based on its properties, namely low density, high specific heat, and the highest thermal conductivity (at 0.168 W/(m·K)) of all gases; it is 7-10 times better at cooling than air. Another advantage of hydrogen is its easy detection by hydrogen sensors. A hydrogen-cooled generator can be significantly smaller, and therefore less expensive, than an air-cooled one. For stator cooling, water can be used.\n\nHelium with a thermal-conductivity of 0.142 W/(m·K) was considered as coolant as well, however its high cost hinders its adoption despite its non-flammability.\n\nGenerally, three cooling approaches are used. For generators up to 300 MW, air cooling can be used. Between 250-450 MW hydrogen cooling is employed. For the highest power generators, up to 1800 MW, hydrogen and water cooling is used; the rotor is hydrogen-cooled, the stator windings are made of hollow copper tubes cooled with water circulating through them.\n\nThe generators produce high voltage; the choice of voltage depends on the tradeoff between demands of electrical insulation and handling high electric current. For generators up to 40 MVA, the voltage is 6.3 kV; large generators with power above 1000 MW generate voltages up to 27 kV; voltages between 2.3-30 kV are used depending on the size of the generator. The generated power is sent to a nearby step-up transformer, where it is converted to the electric power transmission line voltage (typically between 115 and 1200 kV).\n\nTo control the centrifugal forces at high rotational speeds, the rotor diameter typically does not exceed 1.25 meters; the required large size of the coils is achieved by their length and so the generator is mounted horizontally. Two-pole machines typically operate at 3000 rpm for 50 Hz and 3600 rpm for 60 Hz systems, half of that for four-pole machines.\n\nThe turbogenerator also contains a smaller generator producing direct current excitation power for the rotor coil. Older generators used dynamos and slip rings for DC injection to the rotor, but the moving mechanical contacts were subject to wear. Modern generators have the excitation generator on the same shaft as the turbine and main generator; the diodes needed are located directly on the rotor. The excitation current on larger generators can reach 10 kA. The amount of excitation power ranges between 0.5-3% of the generator output power.\n\nThe rotor usually contains caps or cage made of nonmagnetic material; its role is to provide a low impedance path for eddy currents which occur when the three phases of the generator are unevenly loaded. In such cases, eddy currents are generated in the rotor, and the resulting Joule heating could in extreme cases destroy the generator.\n\nHydrogen gas is circulated in a closed loop to remove heat from the active parts then it is cooled by gas-to-water heat exchangers on the stator frame. The working pressure is up to 6 bar.\n\nAn on-line thermal conductivity detector (TCD) analyzer is used with three measuring ranges. The first range (80-100% H) to monitor the hydrogen purity during normal operation. The second (0-100% H) and third (0-100% CO) measuring ranges allow safe opening of the turbines for maintenance.\n\nHydrogen has very low viscosity, a favorable property for reducing drag losses in the rotor; these losses can be significant, as the rotors have large diameter and high rotational speed. Every reduction in the purity of the hydrogen coolant increases windage losses in the turbine; as air is 14 times more dense than hydrogen, each 1% of air corresponds to about 14% increase of density of the coolant and the associated increase of viscosity and drag. A purity drop from 97 to 95% in a large generator can increase windage losses by 32%; this equals to 685 kW for a 907 MW generator. The windage losses also increase heat losses of the generator and the associated cooling problems.\n\nThe absence of oxygen in the atmosphere within significantly reduces the damage of the windings insulation by eventual corona discharges; these can be problematic as the generators typically operate at high voltage, often 20 kV.\n\nThe bearings have to be leak-tight. A hermetic seal, usually a liquid seal, is employed; a turbine oil at pressure higher than the hydrogen inside is typically used. A metal, e.g. brass, ring is pressed by springs onto the generator shaft, the oil is forced under pressure between the ring and the shaft; part of the oil flows into the hydrogen side of the generator, another part to the air side. The oil entrains a small amount of air; as the oil is recirculated, some of the air is carried over into the generator. This causes a gradual air contamination buildup and requires maintaining hydrogen purity. Scavenging systems are used for this purpose; gas (mixture of entrained air and hydrogen, released from the oil) is collected in the holding tank for the sealing oil, and released into the atmosphere; the hydrogen losses have to be replenished, either from gas cylinders or from on-site hydrogen generators. Degradation of bearings leads to higher oil leaks, which increases the amount of air transferred into the generator. Increased oil consumption can be detected by a flow meter for each bearing.\n\nPresence of water in hydrogen has to be avoided, as it causes deterioration of hydrogen's cooling properties, corrosion of the generator parts, arcing in the high voltage windings, and reduces the lifetime of the generator. A desiccant-based dryer is usually included in the gas circulation loop, typically with a moisture probe in the dryer's outlet, sometimes also in its inlet. Presence of moisture is also indirect evidence of air leaking into the generator compartment. Another option is optimizing the hydrogen scavenging, so the dew point is kept within the generator's specifications. The water is usually introduced into the generator atmosphere as an impurity in the turbine oil; another route is via leaks in water cooling systems.\n\nThe flammability limits (4-75% of hydrogen in air at normal temperature, wider at high temperatures), its autoignition temperature at 571 °C, its very low minimum ignition energy, and its tendency to form explosive mixtures with air, require provisions to be made for maintaining the hydrogen content within the generator above the upper or below the lower flammability limit at all times, and other hydrogen safety measures. When filled with hydrogen, overpressure has to be maintained as inflow of air into the generator could cause a dangerous explosion in its confined space. The generator enclosure is purged before opening it for maintenance, and before refilling the generator with hydrogen. During shutdown, hydrogen is purged by an inert gas, then the inert gas is replaced by air; the opposite sequence is used before startup. Carbon dioxide or nitrogen can be used for this purpose, as they do not form combustible mixtures with hydrogen and are inexpensive. Gas purity sensors are used to indicate the end of the purging cycle, which shortens the startup and shutdown times and reduces consumption of the purging gas. Carbon dioxide is favored as due to the very high density difference it easily displaces the hydrogen. The carbon dioxide is admitted to the bottom of the generator first, pushing the hydrogen out at the top. Then air is admitted to the top, pushing the carbon dioxide out at the bottom. Purging is best done with the generator stopped. If done while on barring slow speed unloaded rotation, the generator fans will mix the gases and greatly increase the time required to achieve purity.\n\nHydrogen is often produced on-site using a plant consisting of an array of electrolysis cells, compressors and storage vessels. This reduces the need for storing compressed hydrogen and allows storage in lower pressure tanks, with associated safety benefits and lower costs. Some gaseous hydrogen has to be kept for refilling the generator but it can be also generated on-site.\n\nAs technology evolves materials not susceptible to hydrogen embrittlement are used in generator designs. Not doing so can lead to equipment failure from hydrogen embrittlement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2794507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794507", "title": "Iris hypothesis", "text": "Iris hypothesis\n\nThe iris hypothesis is a hypothesis proposed by Richard Lindzen et al. in 2001 that suggested increased sea surface temperature in the tropics would result in reduced cirrus clouds and thus more infrared radiation leakage from Earth's atmosphere. His study of observed changes in cloud coverage and modeled effects on infrared radiation released to space as a result supported the hypothesis. This suggested infrared radiation leakage was hypothesized to be a negative feedback in which an initial warming would result in an overall cooling of the surface. The consensus view is that increased sea surface temperature would result in increased cirrus clouds and reduced infrared radiation leakage and therefore a positive feedback.\n\nOther scientists subsequently tested the hypothesis. Some concluded that there was no evidence supporting the hypothesis. Others found evidence suggesting that increased sea surface temperature in the tropics did indeed reduce cirrus clouds but found that the effect was nonetheless a positive feedback rather than the negative feedback that Lindzen had hypothesized. \n\nA later 2007 study conducted by Roy Spencer et al. using updated satellite data potentially supported the iris hypothesis. In 2011, Lindzen published a rebuttal to the main criticisms. In 2015 a paper was published which again suggested the possibility of an \"Iris Effect\". It also proposed what it called a \"plausible physical mechanism for an iris effect.\" In 2017 a paper was published which found that \"tropical anvil cirrus clouds exert a negative climate feedback in strong association with precipitation efficiency\". If confirmed then that finding would be highly supportive of the existence of an \"Iris Effect\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4257525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4257525", "title": "Janisse Ray", "text": "Janisse Ray\n\nJanisse Ray (born 1962) is an American writer, naturalist and environmental activist.\nShe was born on February 2 in Baxley, Georgia, the daughter of Franklin D. and Lee Ada Branch Ray. She attended North Georgia College, 1980–82; Florida State University, BA, 1984, and the University of Montana, MFA, 1997.\n\nHer first book, \"Ecology of a Cracker Childhood,\" recounts her experiences growing up in a junkyard, the daughter of a poor, white, fundamentalist Christian family. The book interweaves family history and memoir with natural history writing—specifically, descriptions of the ecology of the vanishing longleaf pine forests that once blanketed much of the South. The book won the American Book Award, the Southern Book Critics Circle Award and the Southern Environmental Law Center Award for Outstanding Writing on the Southern environment. It also was chosen for the \"All Georgia Reading the Same Book\" project by the Georgia Center for the Book.\n\nRay's second book, \"Wild Card Quilt,\" recounts her experiences of moving back home to Georgia with her son after attending graduate school in Montana.\n\nHer third book, \"Pinhook\", tells the story of Pinhook Swamp, the land that connects the Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia and Osceola National Forest in Florida\n\nHer fourth book, \"Drifting into Darien\", published in 2011, describes her experiences on and knowledge about the Altamaha River, which runs from middle Georgia to the Atlantic Ocean at Darien.\n\nRay published a book of poetry, \"A House of Branches\", in 2010, and has been a contributor to \"Audubon,\" \"Orion\" and other magazines, as well as a commentator for NPR's \"Living on Earth\". An environmental activist, she has campaigned on behalf of the Altamaha River and the Moody Swamp.\n\nShe teaches in the Chatham University Low-Residency Master of Fine Arts Program in Creative Writing.\n\nShe has a son, Silas Ausable, who attended the University of Massachusetts. As a student there he studied landscape architecture.\n\n\nSource: Contemporary Authors Online. The Gale Group, 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "33025450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33025450", "title": "KT90", "text": "KT90\n\nThe KT90 is a vacuum tube used in audio applications. Typically, it is used in hi-fi or electric guitar amplifier applications. KT90 was developed by Elektronska Industrija Niš (Ei). KT90 is designed by Blagomir Bukumira,a leading engineer at Ei\n\nThe KT90, or in full, \"Kinkless Tetrode 90\", is a beam power tetrode and features the same octal socket as its smaller variant, the KT88. It may therefore be used as a substitute, given appropriate re-biasing when used in push-pull configuration.\n\nThe KT90 is currently manufactured by Electro-Harmonix, who claim that, despite its different construction, it possesses similar sound characteristics to the EL34 valve. Semi-formal research has been conducted by U.K. supplier Watford Valves who have published a test report. (This research is described here as \"semi-formal\" because it consists primarily of listening evaluations which may be subjective, rather than electrical analyses of performance parameters in either numerical or graphical form.)\n"}
{"id": "12221231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12221231", "title": "Kallichore (mythology)", "text": "Kallichore (mythology)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Kallichore is sometimes considered one of the Muses, and thus a daughter of Zeus (Jupiter); a scholion to Hesiod's \"Works and Days\" names her. She is better known, however, as one of the Nysiads, nymphs who nursed Dionysos. Both the lunar crater Kallichore and Jupiter's moon Kallichore are named after her.\n"}
{"id": "621730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621730", "title": "Lisa Clayton", "text": "Lisa Clayton\n\nLisa Lyttelton, Dowager Viscountess Cobham (born about 1958 as Lisa Clayton) is the first British woman to sail single-handed and non-stop around the world. She was educated in Birmingham at the Church of England School for Girls, Edgbaston, and the University of Birmingham.\n\nOn 17 September 1994 Clayton set out to attempt two world records, namely \"Fastest Sail Around the World by a Woman, Single-Handed Without Assistance\" and \"First British Woman to Sail Single-Handed and Non-Stop Around the World.\" She returned on 29 June 1995, after 285 days at sea.\n\nOn her thirty-eight foot yacht, called \"Spirit of Birmingham\", Clayton survived the journey despite capsizing seven times. Her vessel was named after her home city and the university which contributed over £40,000 and expertise to make it possible for Clayton to realise her dream. On 1 October 1996, Clayton was recognised as an Honorary Freeman of the City of Birmingham.\n\nOn 1 August 1997 she married the 11th Viscount Cobham, owner of Hagley Hall in Worcestershire. He died in 2006.\n"}
{"id": "5338093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5338093", "title": "List of NGC objects (1–1000)", "text": "List of NGC objects (1–1000)\n\nThis is a list of NGC objects 1–1000 from the New General Catalogue (NGC). The astronomical catalogue is composed mainly of star clusters, nebulae, and galaxies. Other objects in the catalogue can be found in the other subpages of the list of NGC objects.\n\nThe constellation information in these tables is from \"The Complete New General Catalogue and Index Catalogue of Nebulae and Star Clusters by J. L. E. Dreyer\", which was accessed using the VizieR Service. Galaxy morphological types and objects that are members of the Small Magellanic Cloud are identified using the \"NASA/IPAC Extragalactic Database\". The other data of these tables are from the SIMBAD Astronomical Database unless otherwise stated.\n"}
{"id": "5880588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5880588", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Cambridgeshire", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Cambridgeshire\n\nCambridgeshire is a county in eastern England, with an area of and a population as of mid-2015 of 841,218. It is crossed by the Nene and the Great Ouse rivers. The University of Cambridge, which was founded in the thirteenth century, made the county one of the country's most important intellectual centres. A large part of the county is in The Fens, and drainage of this habitat, which probably commenced in the Roman period and was largely completed by the seventeenth century, considerably increased the area available for agriculture. The main manufacturing area is Peterborough.\n\nThe administrative county was formed in 1974, incorporating most of the historic county of Huntingdonshire. Local government is divided between Cambridgeshire County Council and Peterborough City Council, which is a separate unitary authority. Under the county council, there are five district councils, Cambridge City Council, South Cambridgeshire District Council, East Cambridgeshire District Council, Huntingdonshire District Council and Fenland District Council.\n\nIn England, Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) are designated by Natural England, which is responsible for protecting England's natural environment. Designation as an SSSI gives legal protection to the most important wildlife and geological sites. As of March 2017, there are 99 sites designated in the county. There are eighty-eight sites listed for their biological interest, ten for their geological interest, and one for both interests.\n\nThe largest site is Ouse Washes at , which is partly in Norfolk. It is internationally important for its wintering and breeding waterfowl and waders, such as teal, pintail and wigeon. The smallest is Delph Bridge Drain at , a short stretch of ditch which was designated because it was found to have a population of fen ragwort, which was believed to have been extinct in Britain since 1857. The only site designated for both biological and geological interests is Ely Pits and Meadows, which has nationally important numbers of bitterns, and has yielded sauropod dinosaurs and pliosaur marine reptiles dating to the Jurassic period.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5882451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5882451", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Greater Manchester", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Greater Manchester\n\n<onlyinclude>\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in Greater Manchester, a metropolitan county in North West England. In England the body responsible for designating SSSIs is Natural England, which chooses a site because of its fauna, flora, geological or physiographical features. , there are 21 sites designated within this Area of Search, of which 14 have been designated due to their biological interest, 5 due to their geological interest, and 2 for both biological and geological interest.\n\nNatural England took over the role of designating and managing SSSIs from English Nature in October 2006 when it was formed from the amalgamation of English Nature, parts of the Countryside Agency and the Rural Development Service. Natural England, like its predecessor, uses the 1974-1996 county system and as such the same approach is followed here, rather than splitting these sites between the Lancashire and Cheshire lists. The data in the table is taken from English Nature's website in the form of citation sheets for each SSSI.\n\nFor other counties, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n</includeonly></onlyinclude>\n"}
{"id": "17798215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17798215", "title": "List of countries by electricity production", "text": "List of countries by electricity production\n\nThis is a list of countries by electricity generation per year, based on multiple sources.\n"}
{"id": "53333891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53333891", "title": "List of former planets", "text": "List of former planets\n\nThis is a list of astronomical objects formerly widely considered planets. As of 2016, there are 8 official planets of the Solar System, and many more exoplanets. Several objects formerly considered exoplanets have been found to actually be stars or brown dwarfs. As the philosophy of what is a planet has evolved, the de facto and dejure definitions of planet have changed over the millennia.\n\nThroughout antiquity, there have been many Classical Planets, once \"wandering stars\", not all of which are now considered planets. With the advent of the telescope, the moons initially discovered around Jupiter and Saturn, were also considered planets by some. The development of more powerful telescopes resulted in the discovery of the asteroids, the first many of which were initially considered planets. Then Pluto was discovered, the first Trans-Neptunian Object. When electronic imaging came about, Trans-Neptunian Objects of the Kuiper Belt were found, and then Eris, widely hailed as the \"new planet\", was discovered, which prompted the 2006 round of recategorization of what is a planet.\n\n"}
{"id": "41096027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41096027", "title": "List of most massive black holes", "text": "List of most massive black holes\n\nThis is an ordered list of the most massive black holes so far discovered (and probable candidates), measured in units of solar masses (), or the mass of the Sun (approx. kilograms).\n\nA supermassive black hole (SMBH) is the largest type of black hole, on the order of hundreds of thousands to billions of solar masses (), and is theorized to exist in the center of almost all massive galaxies.\nUnambiguous dynamical evidence for SMBHs exists only in a handful of galaxies; these include the Milky Way, the Local Group galaxies M31 and M32, and a few galaxies beyond the Local Group, e.g. NGC 4395. In these galaxies, the mean square (or root mean square) velocities of the stars or gas rises as ~1/r near the center, indicating a central point mass. In all other galaxies observed to date, the rms velocities are flat, or even falling, toward the center, making it impossible to state with certainty that a supermassive black hole is present. Nevertheless, it is commonly accepted that the center of nearly every galaxy contains a supermassive black hole. The reason for this assumption is the M-sigma relation, a tight (low scatter) relation between the mass of the hole in the ~10 galaxies with secure detections, and the velocity dispersion of the stars in the bulges of those galaxies. This correlation, although based on just a handful of galaxies, suggests to many astronomers a strong connection between the formation of the black hole and the galaxy itself.\n\nAlthough SMBHs are currently theorized to exist in almost all massive galaxies, more massive black holes are rare; with only fewer than several dozen having been discovered to date. There is extreme difficulty in determining a mass of a particular SMBH, and so they still remain in the field of open research. SMBHs with accurate masses are limited only to galaxies within the Laniakea Supercluster and to active galactic nuclei.\n\nAnother problem for this list is the method used in determining the mass. Such methods, such as broad emission-line reverberation mapping (BLRM), Doppler measurements, velocity dispersion, and the M-sigma relation have not yet been well established. Most of the time, the masses derived from the given methods contradict each other's values.\n\nThis list contains supermassive black holes with known masses, determined at least to the order of magnitude. Some objects in this list have two citations, like 3C 273; one from Bradley M. Peterson \"et al.\" using the BLRM method, and the other from Charles Nelson using [O]λ5007 value and velocity dispersion. Note that this list is very far from complete, as the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) alone detected quasars, which likely may be the homes of billion-solar-mass black holes. In addition, there are several hundred citations for black hole measurements not yet included on this list. Despite this, the majority of well-known black holes above 1 billion are shown. Messier galaxies with precisely known black holes are all included.\n\nListed black holes here have issues of measurement accuracies and more importantly the mass estimates are based on different kinds of evaluation methods which are all affected by their own individual systematics.\n\n"}
{"id": "20400208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20400208", "title": "List of mountain peaks of Greenland", "text": "List of mountain peaks of Greenland\n\nThis article comprises three sortable tables of major mountain peaks of the nation of Greenland (Kalaallit Nunaat). Kalaallit Nunaat includes the Island of Greenland and surrounding islands.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nOf the highest major summits of Greenland, four peaks exceed elevation and 24 peaks equal or exceed elevation.\n\nOf the most prominent summits of Greenland, only Gunnbjørn Fjeld exceeds of topographic prominence. Six peaks exceed and 38 peaks are ultra-prominent summits with at least of topographic prominence.\n\nOf the most isolated major summits of Greenland, only Gunnbjørn Fjeld exceeds of topographic isolation. Four peaks exceed of topographic isolation, 13 peaks exceed , and 21 peaks exceed of topographic isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3509744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3509744", "title": "List of national parks of Gabon", "text": "List of national parks of Gabon\n\nThere are 13 national parks in Gabon, all created in 2002 when President Omar Bongo established Gabon's National Agency for National Parks (, ANPN). The national parks cover 10% of the country.\n"}
{"id": "8591437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591437", "title": "List of stars in Columba", "text": "List of stars in Columba\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Columba, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3671331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3671331", "title": "List of storms in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season", "text": "List of storms in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\nThe 2005 Atlantic hurricane season officially began June 1, 2005 and officially ended on November 30, 2005. These dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the Atlantic basin, although effectively the season persisted into January 2006 due to continued storm activity.</onlyinclude>\n\n<onlyinclude>\nThe 2005 season was the most active season on record, shattering records on repeated occasions. A record 28 tropical and subtropical storms formed, of which a record fifteen became hurricanes. Of these, seven strengthened into major hurricanes, a record-tying five became category 4 hurricanes, a record four of which reached Category 5 strength, the highest categorization for North Atlantic tropical cyclones. Among these Category 5 storms was Hurricane Wilma, the most intense hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic.</onlyinclude>\n\nThe most notable storms of the season were the five Category 4 and Category 5 hurricanes: Dennis, Emily, Katrina, Rita, and Wilma, along with the Category 1 Hurricane Stan. These storms made a combined twelve landfalls as major hurricanes (Category 3 strength or higher) throughout Cuba, Mexico, and the Gulf Coast of the United States, causing over $180 billion (2005 USD) in damages and at least 3,960 deaths.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\nEarly in the season, a low-pressure area formed and persisted north of Honduras. Despite moderate wind shear, the low managed to organize, and was designated Tropical Depression One on June 8. The storm strengthened further, and it was upgraded to Tropical Storm Arlene on the following day. From this point, Arlene headed north, intensifying steadily as it spread tropical storm-force winds and heavy rains to the Cayman Islands and Cuba. Arlene made landfall in Cuba near Cabo Corrientes with 50 mph (80 km/h) winds. Wind shear weakened as the storm entered the Gulf of Mexico on the morning of June 10, and the storm intensified to just under hurricane strength with 70 mph (110 km/h) winds.\n\nArlene made landfall just west of Pensacola, Florida with 60 mph (95 km/h) winds on June 11. After moving inland, Arlene persisted as a dissipating tropical depression for two days, passing into Indiana and Michigan before being absorbed by a frontal system over southeastern Canada on June 14.\n\nThe only death attributed to Arlene was a female student caught in rip current in Miami Beach, Florida, far from the center of circulation. Damage from Arlene totaled to $11.8 million (2005 USD; $  USD). \nAfter nearly two weeks of inactivity, an area of disturbed weather developed in the Bay of Campeche and quickly became better organized. It was designated Tropical Depression Two on the evening of June 28, and, two hours later, data from a Hurricane Hunter aircraft indicated that it had strengthened into a tropical storm, at which point the system was named Bret. This was the first time that two tropical storms had formed in June since the 1986 season, and only the thirteenth time since 1851.\n\nAs the storm developed very close to shore, it only briefly traveled west-northwest before making landfall near Tuxpan, Veracruz, Mexico early on June 29 as a weak tropical storm. It continued inland, producing heavy rain over the state of Veracruz until dissipating over the mountains of San Luis Potosí late on June 29. Hundreds of homes were damaged, and several towns, including Naranjos and Chinampa, about 60 miles (95 km) south of Tampico, were severely flooded, but the only reported fatalities were the two occupants of a car that was swept away by floodwaters in Naranjos.\nTropical Depression Three formed on July 3 in the Caribbean Sea, but the next day, before being able to strengthen, it moved over the Yucatán Peninsula. The system emerged into the Gulf of Mexico on July 4 at which point a new center of circulation developed at the northern edge of the system and the system strengthened to a tropical storm, becoming Tropical Storm Cindy early July 4. The storm moved rapidly across the Gulf and made landfall near Grand Isle, Louisiana late July 5 as a minimal hurricane; though it was originally thought to have been only a tropical storm at landfall, it was upgraded to a hurricane in the post-storm analysis. As most storms do, it weakened while over land and became extratropical over the Carolinas on July 7.\n\nAs a tropical depression well inland, Cindy spawned an F2 tornado which damaged landmarks in Hampton, Georgia, including the Atlanta Motor Speedway, which suffered $40 million in damage alone. While tornadoes are often spawned by tropical systems, F2 tornadoes spawned this way are relatively rare. Large and sometimes record-breaking amounts of rain, more than in places, fell over parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Maryland. Three deaths were attributed to Cindy—two in Georgia and another in Alabama.\nTropical Depression Four formed in the southeastern Caribbean on the evening of July 4. Early the next day, it strengthened into Tropical Storm Dennis. The storm began moving rapidly to the west-northwest, and reached hurricane strength on the afternoon of July 6 while approaching the southern coast of Hispaniola. The next day it strengthened rapidly to become a Category 4 hurricane. Dennis moved between Jamaica and Haiti on July 7. Dennis reached its peak as the strongest recorded Atlantic storm to form before August with a minimum central pressure of 930 mbar just south of Cuba – a record that would stand only for eight days until Emily broke it. On July 8, Dennis passed over Cuba close to the capital, Havana. A second episode of rapid intensification occurred on July 9 as it moved north toward the Gulf Coast of the United States. Dennis made landfall as a Category 3 storm just southeast of Pensacola, Florida.\n\nDennis claimed at least 88 lives: 56 in Haiti, 16 in Cuba, 15 in the U.S. and 1 in Jamaica. Total damages are estimated at US$4–6 billion, including $2.23 billion in the United States and the rest in the Caribbean. Dennis was most damaging to Cuba, where the storm wiped out a significant portion of the citrus crop. As the storm struck near the end of Cuba's dry season, farmers were not yet prepared for the heavy rainfall brought by the storm. In the United States, Dennis drew comparison with Hurricane Ivan of the previous year, but it was both smaller and weaker than Ivan at landfall and caused significantly fewer damages, partly because the region had not yet fully rebuilt.\nEmily formed from Tropical Depression Five east of the Lesser Antilles on July 11. It moved westward and hit Grenada on July 14 as a Category 1 storm. It entered the Caribbean and began intensifying rapidly. It reached Category 4 intensity on July 15. Emily broke Hurricane Dennis's eight-day-old record for the most intense storm to form prior to August when it reached a minimum pressure of 929 mbar, along with 160 mph (260 km/h) winds on July 16. It was originally believed that Emily peaked at Category 4. However, some readings indicated that Emily briefly reached Category 5 strength around this time, and Emily was upgraded to Category 5 status in the post-storm analysis. The storm weakened slightly, however, and after passing south of Jamaica and the Cayman Islands, Emily made landfall on the Yucatán Peninsula near Tulum on the morning of July 18 as a Category 4 hurricane. Emily emerged over the Bay of Campeche and made its second landfall in rural northeast Mexico near Boca Madre, Tamaulipas as a Category 3 storm.\n\nEmily is blamed for at least fourteen deaths; one in Grenada, four in Jamaica, seven in the Caribbean and two in Mexico. The storms also caused an estimated $550 million (2005 USD) in damages, almost entirely in Grenada and the Mexican state of Quintana Roo. Some minor flooding occurred in northeastern Mexico and extreme southern Texas as a result of Emily's final landfall, but damages were light.\nA tropical wave off the Bahamas organized into Tropical Depression Six on the afternoon of July 21. The depression became the sixth named storm of the season only two hours later, the first time the sixth storm of the season had ever formed that early in the season. The storm headed northward from the Bahamas, then northeast over the Atlantic, becoming disorganized by July 24 under the effects of shear and drier air. It moved erratically, inching closer to Bermuda while barely remaining a tropical storm. Bermuda received some strong wind gusts, but was otherwise unaffected. Tropical Storm Franklin then accelerated north and northeast, roughly paralleling the East Coast of the United States, and intensified to near hurricane strength. Eventually, Franklin became extratropical along the coast of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland.\nA tropical wave, which had earlier crossed Honduras and the Yucatán peninsula, organized into Tropical Depression Seven on the afternoon of July 23 in the Bay of Campeche. It was upgraded to Tropical Storm Gert early the next day, the earliest formation of a seventh named storm on record. It strengthened little before making landfall on the coast of Mexico south of Tampico late on July 24 with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (70 km/h) and a minimum central pressure of . It moved inland over central Mexico before dissipating on July 25.\n\nGert struck in roughly the same area as Hurricane Emily just four days earlier, causing fear of flooding and landslides due to saturated lands. As a precaution some 1,000 people were evacuated from low-lying residences and businesses near the towns of Naranjos and Tamiahua.\n\nA tropical wave left the African coast on July 22 and crossed much of the Atlantic without significant development. While approaching the Leeward Islands on July 28, the National Hurricane Center monitored the system closely for any possible development, which did not occur at that time. Though by August 2, convection began increasing, and as a result, the system developed into Tropical Depression Eight later that day, while centered about 350 miles (595 km) southwest of Bermuda. On the following day, the depression strengthened into Tropical Storm Harvey. Due to initially strong wind shear, Harvey exhibited subtropical characteristics.\n\nHarvey passed 45 miles (75 km) south of Bermuda early on August 4 while a moderately strong tropical storm. Harvey intensified further and peaked with winds of 65 mph (100 km/h) later that day. Despite strong wind shear, Harvey did not weaken significantly over the next three days. Harvey transitioned into an extratropical storm early on August 9. The remnant extratropical cyclone gradually weakened, and eventually dissipated northwest of the Azores on August 14. Harvey brought heavy rain to Bermuda, with at Bermuda International Airport, causing some flooding of roads. In addition, sustained winds on the island reached 45 mph (75 km/h).\nTropical Depression Nine formed from a tropical wave west of Cape Verde on the afternoon of August 4, the second Cape Verde-type storm of the season. The system encountered dry air and wind shear as it turned to the northwest and it broke down. Despite poor organization and shearing winds, it became Tropical Storm Irene on August 7. Further shear and dry air disrupted the cyclone's structure, and Irene was downgraded to a tropical depression on August 8.\n\nIrene cycled between apparent reintensification and significant weakening, becoming so disorganized in the early morning of August 10 that forecasters were considering declaring the storm dissipated. However, the depression continued to move westward into more favorable conditions and again attained tropical storm status, rapidly strengthening to a Category 1 hurricane on August 14. Later, it strengthened even further in low shear conditions under an upper level anticyclone. On August 16 it briefly strengthened to a Category 2 hurricane, but began to weaken in cooler waters shortly thereafter. It became extratropical southeast of Cape Race, Newfoundland on August 18, having never posed a threat to land.\nTropical Depression Ten formed 1100 statute miles (1770 km) east of the Lesser Antilles on August 13. Conditions were not favorable for development, as strong vertical shear literally ripped the system apart, and advisories were discontinued the next day when it showed no organized deep convection. The remnants of Tropical Depression Ten continued drifting northwestward before degenerating into a tropical wave north of the Leeward Islands. The mid-level remnant circulation eventually merged with another system in the \"complex genesis\" of what would become Tropical Depression Twelve and, eventually, Hurricane Katrina.\nTropical Depression Eleven formed in the Bay of Campeche on August 22. Later in the day it strengthened into Tropical Storm Jose over the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico and achieved a maximum strength of 60 mph (95 km/h) before it made landfall in the state of Veracruz, Mexico on August 23. It then rapidly weakened and soon dissipated as it moved inland over Mexico. While drenching Mexico's Gulf coast, Jose forced some 25,000 residents from their homes in Veracruz state. Eight deaths (six direct) were attributed to Jose's heavy rains in the Mexican state of Oaxaca. Two more were reported missing. Damage in Mexico totaled to $45 million.\n\nLater analysis showed that Jose became more organized two hours before making landfall and was forming an eye, but its winds remained under hurricane strength. The final report suggested that Jose's winds made it up to 60 mph (95 km/h) and made landfall as such, but was still rapidly intensifying before running out of water.\nAn area of disturbed weather over the Bahamas developed into a tropical depression on August 23, becoming a tropical storm on August 24 and a hurricane on August 25. It made landfall on August 25 in southern Florida, emerging a few hours later into the Gulf of Mexico. Katrina rapidly intensified to Category 5 status on the morning of August 28, becoming the fourth most intense recorded hurricane in the Atlantic basin. The hurricane weakened to a Category 4 as it turned northward, and weakened to a Category 3 hurricane with 125 mph (200 km/h) winds as it made landfall in southeastern Louisiana (as confirmed by the post-storm report; initially it was estimated as a Category 4 landfall). Hours later, it crossed the Breton Sound and held its strength, making its third and final landfall with 120 mph (190 km/h) winds near Pearlington, Mississippi.\n\nThe Mississippi and Alabama coastlines suffered catastrophic damage from the storm's 30-foot (9m) storm surge. New Orleans escaped the worst damage from the storm, but levees along the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway and 17th Street and London Avenue Canals were ultimately breached by storm surge, flooding about 80% of the city. 1,836 people were confirmed dead across seven US states. Currently, Katrina is tied with Hurricane Harvey in 2017 as the costliest natural disaster in U.S. history, with damage totals around US$125 billion ($  USD). The deadliest storm of the 2005 season, Katrina remains one of the deadliest natural disasters in U.S. history. The damage and fatality estimates remain incomplete.\n\nA tropical wave moved off the coast of Africa on August 24. It developed into an area of low pressure as it crossed the Atlantic, and organized into Tropical Depression Thirteen on August 28 while 960 mi (1550 km) east of the Lesser Antilles.\nBecause of northeasterly shear, the center of the circulation was removed from the convection, and the depression degenerated into a remnant low late on August 29. Many of the models had indicated that this was likely, but the National Hurricane Center (NHC) instead chose to forecast slight strengthening.\n\nThe remnant low moved to the north and later northeast, due to a non-tropical system. The convection increased and the depression regenerated on August 31. That afternoon, the depression strengthened further into Tropical Storm \"Lee\", reaching its peak intensity with winds of 40 mph (65 km/h), in between Bermuda and the Azores. There was uncertainty in its intensity, and it quickly weakened to tropical depression status again. Lee moved around the non-tropical low to its west, causing forecasting difficulties with regards to how tropical it remained. Later on September 1, shear again removed the convection of the depression, and Lee became a remnant low that survived until September 4 when it was absorbed by a cold front. It never affected land, and there were no reports of damage or fatalities.\nTropical Depression Fourteen formed from a tropical wave 1100 statute miles (1,770 km) east of the Leeward Islands on September 1, and strengthened to Tropical Storm Maria the next day. Early on September 4, Maria became the fifth hurricane of the season. On September 5, it briefly strengthened to Category 3 intensity, making it the fourth major hurricane of the season. It gradually weakened and dropped to tropical storm strength on September 8.\n\nMaria became extratropical midway between Cape Race and the Azores on September 10. It never threatened land as a hurricane, but Maria became a strong extratropical storm, and actually intensified to hurricane strength once again while moving towards Iceland.\n\nThe remnants of Maria triggered a landslide in Norway that killed three people.\nA well-defined low pressure system located about 350 statute miles (560 km) south-southwest of Bermuda organized into a tropical depression on September 5. It strengthened into Tropical Storm Nate that evening and continued to strengthen with little change in position, becoming the sixth hurricane of the season on September 7.\n\nHurricane Nate passed 125 statute miles (200 km) south of Bermuda on September 8 and reached peak intensity of 90 mph (160 km/h). Nate then began to weaken. After turning north, it became extratropical over the central Atlantic Ocean on September 10.\n\nCanadian Navy ships headed to the U.S. Gulf Coast to help in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina were slowed down trying to avoid Nate and Hurricane Ophelia (see below).\nTropical Depression Sixteen formed over the northern Bahamas on September 6. Early on September 7, it organized into Tropical Storm Ophelia, becoming a hurricane the next day. It churned nearly stationary for two days off the coast of Florida where significant coastal erosion resulted from the churning waves. On September 12, the storm began moving slowly toward North Carolina, at times nearly stalling and alternating between tropical storm and hurricane intensity. The hurricane did not make landfall, although the western eyewall reached the coastal areas of North Carolina, causing extensive damage in the Outer Banks and around Cape Fear. Ophelia moved north and became extratropical late on September 17 near Nova Scotia, but it continued northeastward, producing strong winds and heavy rain over Atlantic Canada.\n\nOnly three fatalities were reported, one direct death in Florida from high surf, one indirect death in a traffic accident in North Carolina and a second indirect death due to a fall in Nova Scotia. Damage is estimated at around $70 million, mostly in North Carolina but also in the Bahamas and Nova Scotia and on the Florida coast. While the storm was initially estimated to have caused as much as $1 billion in damages, that number was determined to be a significant overestimate.\nA vigorous tropical wave organized into Tropical Depression Seventeen on September 17 a few hundred miles east of the Leeward Islands. It was upgraded to a tropical storm late that evening. This marked the third time that the 'P' name had been used to name an Atlantic storm since alphabetical naming began in 1950. The previous times were for Pablo in 1995 and Peter in 2003. In subsequent seasons, 'P' names would be given to Paloma in 2008, Paula in 2010, a storm with the same name in 2011, Patty in 2012, and a storm with the same namein 2017.\n\nOn September 18, Philippe was upgraded to a hurricane, becoming the eighth Atlantic hurricane of the season. It was downgraded to a tropical storm on the afternoon of September 20 and dissipated 3 days later south of Bermuda.\nThe season's eighteenth tropical depression formed over the Turks and Caicos Islands on September 18. Later that day, it became the seventeenth tropical storm of the season. Rita slowly intensified to become a hurricane on September 20. It was at Category 1 and later Category 2 intensity as it moved south of the Florida Keys. Rapid intensification ensued as Rita moved into the Gulf of Mexico on September 20, and Rita became a Category 5 hurricane on September 21, becoming at the time the third-most intense hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Basin with a minimum central pressure of 895 mbar, though it would later fall to fourth following Hurricane Wilma. However, as the storm moved slowly across the Gulf of Mexico it gradually weakened until landfall. Rita made landfall as a strong Category 3 hurricane in Cameron Parish, Louisiana near the Texas/Louisiana border on September 24, 2005.\n\nMajor flooding was reported in Port Arthur and Beaumont. Cameron and Calcasieu Parishes in Louisiana were also devastated with the towns of Cameron and Holly Beach completely wiped out. Offshore oil platforms throughout Rita's path also suffered significant damage, though the refineries of Houston, originally thought to be at risk, escaped the brunt of the storm. Seven people are confirmed dead from Rita's direct effects, and total damage from the storm is estimated at $18.5 billion, almost entirely in Texas and Louisiana. 55-112 indirect deaths have also been reported, most resulting from incidents during the evacuation of Houston when the storm was predicted to strike the city. Many of the indirect deaths were caused by a single bus fire in the mass exodus.\n\nA low pressure system formed from a tropical wave about 665 miles (1075 km) west of the southwesternmost Cape Verde Islands and developed into a tropical depression on September 30. The depression moved to the northwest, reaching peak winds of 35 mph (55 km/h) and a minimum central pressure of on October 1. Shortly afterwards, it experienced strong shear, began to dissipate, and the NHC discontinued advisories the next day. Tropical Depression Nineteen dissipated without strengthening to a tropical storm and never threatened any land, so no warnings or watches were issued.\nA tropical wave in the western Caribbean organized into Tropical Depression Twenty on October 1. Off the coast of the Yucatán Peninsula, it strengthened into Tropical Storm Stan on October 2. Stan made landfall on the Yucatán and weakened to a tropical depression, but upon reemerging into the Bay of Campeche it quickly strengthened into a hurricane on October 4. Stan made landfall later that morning on the east-central coast of Mexico, south of Veracruz, as a Category 1 hurricane.\n\nStan was associated with a large area of loosely organized but very heavy shower activity existing over Mexico and Central America during this time. Torrential rainfall in this area caused catastrophic flooding and mudslides which were responsible for at least 1,662 deaths in six countries; 1,500 of these casualties occurred in Guatemala alone. Initially, more than a thousand deaths were attributed to Hurricane Stan, but the National Hurricane Center postulates that all but less than 100 of the deaths were more related to the larger weather event. This was not definitively confirmed in the Tropical Cyclone Report for Hurricane Stan, though it is certain that only 80-100 deaths resulted from the \"direct\" effects of the hurricane.\n\nIn addition to the large number of people killed during this time, over 100,000 people were forced to evacuate. The eruption of the Santa Ana Volcano on October 1 contributed to the destruction in Central America as a result of the floods and mudslides caused.\nIn the post-season analysis, the National Hurricane Center identified an additional subtropical storm that had gone unnoticed during the course of the season. The storm formed on October 4 and was absorbed by a non-tropical low the next day after passing over the Azores, where Santa Maria Island reported sustained winds up to 40 mph (60 km/h). The low that absorbed the storm would eventually become Hurricane Vince. At its peak, the storm had winds of 50 mph (80 km/h) and a minimum central pressure of 997 mbar (hPa). No damages or casualties were reported.\nA tropical disturbance north of the Bahamas showed signs of having a well-defined surface circulation and sufficient wind velocity, and was upgraded to Tropical Storm Tammy at 7:30 a.m. EDT (1130 UTC) October 5 east of Florida, skipping tropical depression status. This marked only the second time that the 'T' name has been used to name an Atlantic storm since alphabetical naming began in 1950; the other time was for Tanya in 1995 (later on there would be Tomas in 2010 and Tony in 2012).\n\nTammy made landfall in the vicinity of Naval Station Mayport near Jacksonville, Florida late that same evening. Tammy then moved rapidly inland across southern Georgia and Alabama before dissipating into a remnant low that drifted south into the Gulf of Mexico. The rains associated with Tammy became disconnected from the cyclonic circulation after landfall, and affected much of Georgia, South Carolina and parts of North Carolina. The frontal system it merged with was responsible for the flooding in the northeast. (See Northeast Flooding of October 2005.)\n\nSubtropical Depression Twenty-two formed from a non-tropical low 450 miles (725 km) southeast of Bermuda on October 8. The system encountered unfavorable conditions, and advisories were discontinued later that night as the system dissipated at 11 p.m. EDT (0300 UTC October 9). The NHC continued to monitor the remnant as it headed towards the east coast of the United States. The extratropical system continued to pull tropical moisture northward (and strengthened to tropical storm intensity) and was, along with Tropical Storm Tammy, a partial cause of severe flooding in New York, New Jersey and New England during early-to-mid-October. The flooding killed 10 people and contributed to the wettest month on record in locales throughout the Northeastern United States.\nTropical Storm Vince was named on October 9 in the east Atlantic near Madeira (east-southeast of the Azores) and was upgraded to a hurricane later that day though later analysis indicated that it had formed as a subtropical storm the previous day. Although Vince was a very small and short-lived storm that only briefly reached hurricane strength, it was notable for developing in the eastern Atlantic, well away from where hurricanes are usually found. This may be the farthest north and east a tropical cyclone has ever formed in the Atlantic Basin.\n\nVince made landfall on the Iberian Peninsula near Huelva, Spain on October 11 just after weakening to a tropical depression. Vince was the first tropical cyclone on record to make landfall in Spain. No damages or injuries were reported, aside from flooding in some areas.\nTropical Depression Twenty-four formed southwest of Jamaica on October 15 and was upgraded to a tropical storm on October 17. On October 18, the storm developed a tiny, well-defined eye and began intensifying rapidly, reaching Category 5 strength with a record-setting pressure of 882 millibars by October 19. The rapid intensification from tropical storm to category 5 hurricane in 24 hours was the fastest ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean, and the second-fastest worldwide, after Super Typhoon Forrest. Wilma slowly drifted towards the Yucatán Peninsula, weakening slowly to a Category 4 before landfall on Cozumel and then the Yucatán coast on October 22. It drifted equally slowly over the peninsula, bringing heavy rain and wind to an area hit hard by Hurricane Emily only 3 months before; Hurricane Emily had also passed directly over Cozumel. After leaving the Yucatán as a Category 2 storm, the storm moved rapidly to the northeast and strengthened slightly, making landfall on southern Florida on October 24 as a Category 3 storm. After crossing Florida, Wilma reintensified to a Category 3 storm over the Gulf Stream but sped rapidly out into the Atlantic, and became extratropical shortly after absorbing the remnants of Tropical Storm Alpha (see below).\n\n62 people are confirmed dead as a result of Wilma, 28 from the direct effects of the storm and 34 from indirect effects, with majority of the deaths, 35, in the United States. Wilma caused $27.4 billion (2005 USD) in damages across the Caribbean, Mexico and Florida, including $18.6 billion in Florida, making Wilma the ninth-costliest hurricane to strike the United States. Well-executed evacuations throughout its path may have lessened the death toll.\nA tropical wave organized into Tropical Depression Twenty-five in the eastern Caribbean on October 22. Later that day, it strengthened into Tropical Storm Alpha as it moved west-northwestward. On the morning of October 23, it made landfall with 50 mph (85 km/h) winds near the city of Barahona in the Dominican Republic, then moved over Haiti. Alpha weakened to a tropical depression over Hispaniola's steep mountains. Alpha reentered the Atlantic Ocean where it was absorbed by Hurricane Wilma.\n\nTropical Storm Alpha was the 22nd named system in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, breaking the 1933 season's record and becoming the first tropical storm to be named using the Greek Alphabet. A total of 43 people were reported dead because of Tropical Storm Alpha, mostly in Haiti.\nLate on October 26, a broad area of low pressure in the southwestern Caribbean developed and became Tropical Depression Twenty-six. Six hours later, it was upgraded to Tropical Storm Beta. Beta strengthened into a hurricane on October 29. On October 30, Hurricane Beta became a major hurricane with sustained winds around 115 mph (185 km/h). That brought the total amount of major hurricanes in the 2005 season to Seven, a record breaking achievement only tied by 1961.\n\nBeta extended the record for most tropical storms in a season to 23 and was the first use of the name Beta for a tropical system. At the time it formed, Beta was considered the thirteenth hurricane of 2005, breaking the 1969 record of twelve hurricanes; later analysis showed Tropical Storm Cindy was a hurricane, which means the record-breaking thirteenth hurricane was actually Hurricane Wilma. Additionally, it was both the first hurricane (as opposed to a tropical storm), and the first major hurricane, named with a Greek letter.\n\nThe Colombian island of Providencia, about off the coast of Nicaragua, was subjected to hurricane-force winds for several hours as the center of the storm moved very slowly by the island. Reports indicate extensive damage to homes and a loss of communications with the islanders.\nLate on November 13, after nearly two weeks of inactivity, Tropical Depression Twenty-Seven formed from a tropical wave about 115 miles west-southwest of St. Lucia. While passing through the Lesser Antilles, the heavy rainfall caused mudslides, killing two people. On later reanalysis, it had briefly attained tropical storm status (without being named), but wind shear prevented further development of the system, and advisories were discontinued on November 16 as it lost its closed circulation about southeast of Kingston, Jamaica.\n\nThe remnants of the depression continued westward and moved along the northern shore of Honduras, merging with parts of a larger low pressure system. It is uncertain whether the remnants of Gamma absorbed the low pressure system or vice versa. The storm grew in strength, and a closed circulation formed on November 18, becoming a tropical storm for the second time (but named Gamma only starting here). After regeneration, and after making landfall over northern Honduras, floods from Gamma killed 34 people in Honduras. Gamma meandered in the Caribbean Sea for a short time, until slowly weakening. The storm eventually disintegrated into a remnant low late on November 20, after causing 37 direct and 4 indirect deaths in total.\nTropical Storm Delta formed with tropical-storm-force winds on November 23, when a strong non-tropical low near the Azores slowly drifted southward and attained tropical characteristics while entering increasingly warmer waters.\n\nDelta drifted slowly and erratically southwards for several days before accelerating north-eastwards then eastwards towards the Canary Islands and north Africa. During this period, it twice approached hurricane strength, although it never achieved hurricane intensity. On November 28 it merged with a frontal system northwest of the Canaries and became a vigorous extratropical storm. It caused severe damage in the Canary Islands and claimed at least seven lives, including six who drowned while attempting to reach the Canary Islands by boat from Africa. El Dedo de Dios, or God's Finger, a geological feature which had been pointing towards the sky for over a millennium and an important landmark for the Canary Islands, was toppled during the storm. Delta also caused power outages, leaving some 200,000 people without power and forcing airports to close down.\n\nThe remnants of Delta later moved into Morocco, bringing needed rain. It caused no damage and was described as a \"normal atmospheric disturbance\".\nOn November 29, Tropical Storm Epsilon formed in the Central Atlantic, forming the same way Delta did when a non-tropical low pressure system well east of Bermuda acquired tropical characteristics. On December 2, the storm strengthened into a hurricane, making it the fifteenth of the season and the first storm since Hurricane Lili in 1984 to reach hurricane strength after the official end of a season.\n\nHurricane Epsilon strengthened further to tie for the second-strongest December hurricane on record with 85 mph winds at its peak, and it lasted longer than any other hurricane ever to form in December. However, it was eventually torn apart by shear and absorbed into an approaching front. It never made landfall or threatened land. The development and persistence of Epsilon perplexed forecasters at the National Hurricane Center throughout the lifetime of the storm.\nLate on December 29, more than four weeks after the official end to the season, a tropical disturbance developed in the east-central Atlantic. It quickly became more organized and was declared Tropical Depression Thirty on December 30. The next day, the depression strengthened into Tropical Storm Zeta. Zeta made a turn toward the west but stalled and gradually weakened until dissipating on January 6, 2006.\n\nZeta is one of the latest-forming tropical cyclones ever to develop in the recorded history of Atlantic hurricane seasons; the only later storm was Hurricane Alice of 1954–55, which is estimated to have become tropical on December 30, 1954 at 1:00 a.m. EST (0600 UTC). It is also the second recorded North Atlantic tropical cyclone (after Alice) to exist in two calendar years. In addition, Zeta surpassed Alice as the longest-lived tropical cyclone to form in December and cross over into the next year, and it was also the longest-lived January tropical cyclone. Zeta finally dissipated on January 6, 2006.\nThe following list of names was used for named storms that formed in the North Atlantic in 2005. The names not retired from this list were used again in the 2011 season. This was the same list used in the 1999 season, with the exceptions of Franklin and Lee, which replaced Floyd and Lenny, respectively. The names Franklin, Lee, Maria, Nate, Ophelia, Philippe, Rita, Stan, Tammy, Vince and Wilma were used for the first (and only, in the cases of Rita, Stan and Wilma) time this year. After the predetermined list of names for the 2005 season was exhausted, additional storms were named using letters from the Greek Alphabet.\nGreek Names<br>\n\nOn March 31, 2006, at the 28th session of the RA IV hurricane committee, the World Meteorological Organization retired the names Dennis, Katrina, Rita, Stan, and Wilma from its rotating name lists due to the amount of deaths and damage they caused, meaning they will not be used again for any other Atlantic hurricane. They were replaced with Don, Katia, Rina, Sean, and Whitney, respectively, for the 2011 season.\nThis surpassed the previous record for the number of hurricane names retired after a single season, four (held by the 1955, 1995, 2004, and 2017 seasons).\n\nThis is a table of all of the storms that have formed during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. It includes their names, duration, peak strength, areas affected, damage, and death totals. Deaths in parentheses are additional and indirect (an example of an indirect death would be a traffic accident), but were still related to that storm. Damage and deaths include totals while the storm was extratropical, a wave, or a low, and all of the damage figures are in 2005 USD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21130805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21130805", "title": "Mark Z. Jacobson", "text": "Mark Z. Jacobson\n\nMark Zachary Jacobson (born 1965) is a professor of civil and environmental engineering at Stanford University and director of its Atmosphere/Energy Program. Jacobson has developed computer models to study the effects of fossil fuel and biomass burning on air pollution, weather, and climate.\n\nIn 2009 Jacobson and Mark Delucchi, published a paper in \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" proposing that the world move to 100% renewable energy, namely wind, water, and solar power, in all energy sectors. In 2017 Jacobson filed a lawsuit against \"PNAS\", demanding retraction and $10 million in damages for defamation and breach of contract, for publication of a study by Christopher Clack, Ken Caldeira, and 19 other researchers that critiqued his 2009 paper. In 2018 Jacobson dropped the lawsuit.\nJacobson has published research on the role of black carbon and other aerosol chemical components on global and regional climates. \n\nJacobson advocates a speedy transition to renewable energy and renewable energy alone, to reduce the potential acceleration of global warming, including the disappearance of the Arctic Sea ice. Jacobson co-founded the non-profit Solutions Project in 2011 along with Marco Krapels, Mark Ruffalo, and Josh Fox. The Solutions Project, a political advocacy group, combines presentations of science, business, and culture in an effort to influence energy policy switches to the \"100% renewable world\".\n\nJacobson began computer model development in 1990, when he started to build algorithms for what is now called GATOR-GCMOM (Gas, Aerosol, Transport, Radiation, General Circulation, Mesoscale, and Ocean Model). This model simulates air pollution, weather, and climate from the local to global scale. Zhang (2008, pp. 2901, 2902) calls Jacobson's model \"the first fully-coupled online model in the history that accounts for all major feedbacks among major atmospheric processes based on first principles.\"\n\nSeveral of the individual computer code solvers Jacobson developed for GATOR-GCMOM include the gas and aqueous chemistry ordinary differential equations solvers SMVGEAR and SMVGEAR II, alongside a slew of other related and expanded models, The GATOR-GCMOM model has incorporated these processes and has evolved over several decades.\n\nOne of the most important fields of research that Jacobson has added to, with the aid of GATOR-GCMOM, is refining the range of values on exactly how much diffuse tropospheric black carbon, affects the climate. Something initially studied by his PhD adviser Richard Turco, when formulating the \"nuclear winter\" hypothesis of global cooling. The absorbed solar radiation gets converted to heat, which is re-emitted to the atmosphere. Under other circumstances the sunlight would potentially reflect back out into space, had the light struck a more reflective surface. Therefore as a whole, soot affects the planets albedo, a unit of reflectance. While the more familiar greenhouse gases warm the atmosphere by trapping thermal-infrared heat radiation that is emitted by the surface of the Earth, black carbon warms the atmosphere by absorbing sunlight and re-emitting that energy to the air around it as thermal-infrared heat. Jacobson and others drew from these models, that soot from diesel engines, coal-fired power plants and burning wood is a \"major cause of the rapid melting of the Arctic's sea ice.\" Jacobson's refinement to the values on soot and his conclusion that black carbon may be the second leading cause of global warming in terms of radiative forcing was affirmed in the comprehensive review of Bond et al. (2013).\n\nJacobson has also independently modeled and corroborated the work of World Health Organization researchers, who likewise estimate that soot/particulate matter itself, which causes respiratory illness, heart disease and asthma, from fossil fuels and biofuels, may cause at least 1.5 million premature deaths each year, mostly in the developing world where wood and animal dung are used for cooking from fossil fuel and biofuel sources.\n\nBecause of the short atmospheric lifetime of black carbon, in 2002 Jacobson concluded that controlling soot is the fastest way to begin to control global warming and that it will likewise improve human health. However, he cautioned that controlling carbon dioxide, the leading cause of global warming, was imperative for stopping warming.\n\nJacobson has published papers about transitioning to 100% renewable energy systems, including the grid integration of renewable energy. He has concluded that wind, water, and solar (WWS) power can be scaled up in cost-effective ways to fulfill world energy demands in all energy sectors, In 2009 Jacobson and Mark A. Delucchi published \"A Path to Sustainable Energy\" in \"Scientific American\". The article addressed several issues related to transitioning to 100% WWS, such as the energy required in a 100% electric world, the worldwide spatial footprint of wind farms, the availability of scarce materials needed to manufacture new systems and the ability to produce reliable energy on demand. Jacobson has updated and expanded this 2009 paper as the years progress, including a two-part article in the journal \"Energy Policy\" in 2010. Jacobson and his colleague estimated that 3.8 million wind turbines of 5-Megawatt (MW) size, 49,000 300-MW concentrated solar power plants, 40,000 300-MW solar PV power plants, 1.7 billion 3-kW rooftop PV systems, 5350 100-MW geothermal power plants, and some 270 new 1300-MW hydroelectric power plants would be needed. All of which would require approximately 1% of the world's land to be achieved.\n\nJacobson and his colleagues have also published papers for a select number of US states, on transitioning to 100% renewable/WWS energy by 2050. In 2015 Jacobson was lead author in two peer reviewed papers that examined the feasibility of transitioning the United States to a 100% energy system, powered exclusively by wind, water and sunlight(WWS), that also argues as having solved the grid reliability problem with high shares of intermittent sources. In 2016 the editorial board of PNAS selected the grid integration study of Jacobson and his co-workers as best paper in the category \"Applied Biological, Agricultural, and Environmental Sciences\" and awarded him a Cozzarelli Prize.\n\nIn June 2017, an article published in the \"PNAS\" critiqued Jacobson’s grid integration findings for making modeling errors and assumptions. The PNAS published a response by Jacobson and co-authors, with Jacobson writing that, \"The premise and all error claims by Clack et al. about Jacobson et al. are demonstrably false. We reaffirm Jacobson et al.'s conclusions.\" Jacobson also authored a line-by-line response Jacobson would then begin to write a number of posts for \"EcoWatch\", that disputes issues with the critique and would also single out \"The New York Times\", Forbes and other media outlets as getting things \"wrong\", when they summarized the critique.\n\nJacobson is co-founder of the non-profit The Solutions Project along with Marco Krapels, Mark Ruffalo, and Josh Fox. This organization \"helps to educate the public about science-based 100% renewable energy transition roadmaps and facility a transition to a 100% renewable world\".\n\nJacobson argues that if the United States wants to reduce global warming, air pollution and energy instability, it should invest only in the best energy options, and that nuclear power is not one of them. Like his PhD advisor Richard P. Turco, who notably coined the phrase \"nuclear winter\", Jacobson has taken a similar approach to calculating the hypothetical effects of nuclear wars on the climate but has further extended this into providing an analysis that intends to inform policy makers on which energy sources to support, as of 2009. Jacobson's analyses suggest that \"nuclear power results in up to 25 times more carbon emissions per unit energy than wind energy\".\n\nThis analysis is controversial. Jacobson arrived at this conclusion of \"25 times more carbon emissions than wind, per unit of energy generated\" (68–180.1 g/kWh), by specifically expanding on some concepts that are highly contested. These include, though are not limited to, the suggestion that emissions associated with civil nuclear energy should, in the upper limit, include the risk of carbon emissions associated with the burning of cities resulting from a nuclear war aided by the expansion of nuclear energy and weapons to countries previously without them. An assumption that Jacobson's debating opponent similarly raised, during the Ted talk \"Does the world need nuclear energy?\" in 2010, with Jacobson heading the debate in the negative. Jacobson assumes, at the high end (180.1 g/kWh), that 4.1 g/kWh are due to some form of nuclear induced burning that will occur once every 30 years. At the low end, 0 g/kWh are due to nuclear induced burning. Responding to a commentary on his work in the Journal \"Environmental Science and Technology\" in 2013, Dr. James Hansen has characterized Jacobson's analysis on this topic of greenhouse gas emissions, as \"lack(ing) credibility\" and similarly regards Jacobson's other viewpoint of extra \"opportunity-cost\" emissions as \"dubious\". With the foundation of Hansen's incredulity being based on French experience, that decarbonized ~80% of the grid in 15 years, completed 56 reactors in the 15 year period, thus raising the fact that depending on the existence of established regulator certainty & political conditions, nuclear energy facilities have been accelerated through the licensing/planning phase and have therefore rapidly decarbonizated electric grids.. \n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change(IPCC) regard Yale University's Warner and Heath's methodology, used to determine the Life-cycle greenhouse-gas emissions of energy sources, as the most credible, reporting that the conceivable range of total-life-cycle nuclear power emission figures, are between 4-110 g/kWh, with the specific median value of 12 g/kWh, being deemed the strongest supported and 11 g/kWh for Wind.. While Jacobson's limited lifecycle figures, of 9-70 g/kWh, falls within this IPCC range. The IPCC however, does not factor in Jacobson's \"opportunity cost\" emissions on any energy source. The IPCC has not provided a detailed explanation for not including Jacobson's \"opportunity costs\". Aside from the time required for planning, financing, permitting, and constructing a power plant, for every energy source that can be analyzed, the time required and therefore Jacobson's \"opportunity costs\" also depends on political factors, for example hypothetical legal cases that can stall construction and other issues that can arise from site specific NIMBYISM. It is the delay/opportunity cost CO2 emissions that are the bulk of the difference between Jacobson's overall emissions for nuclear of 68-180.1 g/kWh and the IPCC's lifecycle emissions.\n\nJacobson's \"100% renewable world\" approach is supported by a 2016 publication by Mark Cooper, who has previously critiqued nuclear energy at the Vermont Law School, In 2016 Cooper published, a comparison of the 100% WWS roadmaps of Jacobson with deep decarbonization proposals that included nuclear power and fossil fuels with carbon capture. Cooper concluded that the 100% WWS pathway was the least cost and “Neither fossil fuels with CCS or nuclear power enters the least-cost, low-carbon portfolio.” This conclusion by Cooper is in stark contrast to a number of publications from 2011 to 2015, assessments by the Brookings Institution, Professor of Economics at MIT, Paul Joskow along with some independent scientists who have analyzed, with a different methodology, the various strategies proposed to get to a global zero or low carbon economy, by circa 2050. In these varied reports, the renewables-alone approach, has been claimed to cost \"orders of magnitude\" more and be more difficult to achieve than the more flexible energy paths, that have been assessed. \n\nLoftus' assessment of some decarbonization plans, including Jacobson's, concluded in 2014-2015, that \"more detailed analyses realistically addressing the key constraints\", specifically relating to \"the costs associated with integration of large amounts of variable generation\" are needed. Jacobson's \"100% renewable world\", has raised concerns about integration/grid-stability and the issue of Brownouts damaging equipment, some solutions presented for these issues include an expansion on the reliance of energy storage systems. Jacobson counters these by citing 24 publications, primarily penned by the authors Breyer, Mathieson, Jacobson himself, and Diesendorf, that instead argue, that the \"100% renewable world\" is not simply theoretically possible but will work out cheaper than present electricity rates.\n\nIn response to Jacobson's paper on estimating the health effects of the Fukushima nuclear disaster, which projected approximately 180 \"cancer-related morbidities\" to eventually occur in the public., health physicist, Professor Kathryn Higley of Oregon State University wrote in 2012, \"The methods of the study were solid, and the estimates were reasonable, although there is still uncertainty around them...\", although she later said her remarks were\" insufficiently nuanced\". Burton Richter, tenured in Stanford with Jacobson, similarly stated in his critique, \"It is a first rate job and uses sources of radioactivity measurements that have not been used before to get a very good picture of the geographic distribution of radiation, a very good idea\". Richter also noted that \"I also think there is too much editorializing about accident potential at Diablo Canyon which makes [Jacobson's] paper sound a bit like an anti-nuclear piece instead of the very good analysis that it is\". In the following years, Jacobson would add his voice to the call to close this specific nuclear facility on perceived costing/energy subsidy grounds. Jacobson similarly argues that the subsidies required to keep several nuclear power stations running, specifically the subsidy of just over \"$30 billion\" for New York plants at Fitzpatrick, Nine Mile Point Unit 1 and Ginna, are greater than the cost of replacing them with renewable facilities.\n\nIn 2017, Ken Caldeira and 20 other researchers published the largest focused critique of Jacobson's \"100% Renewable world\" paper. David Victor of the University of California, San Diego, a co-author of the critique of Jacobson’s model for a cheap \"100% renewable world\", was motivated to contribute to the paper \"when policy makers started using this [Jacobson] paper for scientific support.\" When it was \"obviously incorrect\". \n\nThis 2017 critique resulted in Jacobson filing a lawsuit against the peer-reviewed scientific journal the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" and the principal author of the paper, demanding $10 million in damages for defamation. News reports and academics have criticized the lawsuit. Jacobson dropped the lawsuit in 2018 after it was clear that they were not going to publish a formal correction, as demanded, without going to court. He stated that when he filed the lawsuit, he expected them to settle.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24896778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24896778", "title": "Mindanao Current", "text": "Mindanao Current\n\nThe Mindanao Current is an ocean current along the eastward side of the southern Philippines. It is a narrow, southward flowing current starting at 14°N with 13Sv increasing in strength to 33Sv at 5.5°N. The current splits before the coast of south-east Mindanao where one part flows cyclonically into the Celebes Sea later feeding the North Equatorial Counter Current (NECC) while another part feeds the NECC directly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38029018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38029018", "title": "Natural History Museum of Nepal", "text": "Natural History Museum of Nepal\n\nThe Natural History Museum of Nepal is located near the World Heritage Site of Swayambhunath. The museum was established in 1975. Since then the museum has collected 50,000 specimens of Nepal’s flora and fauna.\n\nThe Natural History Museum of Nepal has been publishing a journal annually since 1977. The journal, entitled the \"Journal of Natural History Museum\", is the oldest journal on nature in Nepal. The museum has also published numerous books and field guides on Nepal's wildlife.\n\nThe museum is the scientific authority in fauna for CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) in Nepal. It conducts training programs on CITES-related issues for teachers, students, and people working in Nepal’s conservation sector.\n\nThe museum's huge specimen collection is a treasure trove of Nepal's bio-diversity. There are 14,843 specimens of butterflies and moths; 4,142 of beetles; 1,464 of dragonflies and 1,604 of other insects. It also has six specimens of lower chordates, 890 of fish, 107 amphibians specimens, 390 of reptiles and 1,194 of birds. The museum's mammalian specimens total 225, and it also has 22 specimens of skeletons, besides 964 fossils and animal body parts. The museum also houses 107 models of plastic-clay and 74 of rock and minerals. Equally impressive is the museum's botanical and mycological collection: algae (124), fungi and mushrooms (2,320), lichens (61), bryophytes (1,124), pteridophytes (507), gymnosperms (163), and angiosperms (5,034).\n\nThe museum also has a specimen of the spiny babbler, Nepal's only endemic bird species. A specimen of the golden pheasant, an exotic bird from China, is also on display.\n\nAlso on display is a specimen of the Atlas moth, the largest moth species in the world.\n\nThe museum is now the only place to see a specimen of the mouse deer (Indian chevrotain), which is believed to be extinct in Nepal.\n\nThe museum has some bizarre specimens, among them an eight-legged embryo of a goat, a four-legged chick, and a two-headed snake.\n\nThe museum also some relics from the country's prehistoric times. There is a fossilized skull of the \"Archidiskodon\", a species of elephant that roamed the Sivalik Hills Sivalik Hills of Nepal. Another ancient specimen is the molar teeth of \"Sivapithecus\", a hominoid. The skull and the teeth are believed to be around 3 million years and 8-10 million years old respectively.\n"}
{"id": "44383793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44383793", "title": "Nu Coronae Borealis", "text": "Nu Coronae Borealis\n\nThe Bayer designation ν Coronae Borealis (Nu Coronae Borealis) is an optical pair of stars in the constellation Corona Borealis:\n\n"}
{"id": "4968235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4968235", "title": "Octatomic element", "text": "Octatomic element\n\nAn octatomic element is a chemical element that, when standard conditions for temperature and pressure is stable, is in a configuration of eight atoms grouped together. The canonical example is sulphur, S, but red selenium is also an octatomic element stable at room temperature. Octaoxygen is also known, but it is extremely unstable.\n\n"}
{"id": "1826355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1826355", "title": "Palus Epidemiarum", "text": "Palus Epidemiarum\n\nPalus Epidemiarum (Latin for \"Marsh of Epidemics\") is a small lunar mare in the southwestern part of the Moon's near side. It lies to the southwest of Mare Nubium, and southeast of Mare Humorum. This feature forms a rough band of lava-flooded terrain that runs generally west–east, with a northward extension near the western end.\n\nThis mare is notable for a system of rilles in the western end named the Rimae Ramsden, and for the wide Rima Hesiodus that extends from near the midpoint to the east-northeast roughly 300 km. The flooded crater Capuanus occupies the southern center of the Palus Epidemiarum, and is attached to the southern edge. Near the western end is the flooded crater Ramsden, after which the Rimae Ramsden are named. The crater Cichus forms the eastern end of the mare.\n\nThe northern extension of the mare reaches the outer rims of the crater pair Campanus and Mercator. A narrow valley between these craters joins Palus Epidemiarum with Mare Nubium, and a rille from the Rimae Ramsden follows the course of this cleft. The small double-walled crater Marth lies at the southern midpoint of this northern extension.\n\nThe selenographic coordinates of this feature are 32.0° S, 28.2° W, and it is enclosed within a diameter of 286 km. Altimetry data from the Clementine spacecraft shows that this feature slopes downward from west to east, with a height difference of 2 km from end to end.\n\n"}
{"id": "2839326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2839326", "title": "Polar front", "text": "Polar front\n\nIn meteorology, the polar front is the boundary between the polar cell and the Ferrel cell around the 60° latitude in each hemisphere. At this boundary a sharp gradient in temperature occurs between these two air masses, each at very different temperatures.\n\nThe polar front arises as a result of cold polar air meeting warm tropical air. It is a stationary front as the air masses are not moving against each other. Off the coast of eastern North America, especially in winter, there is a sharp temperature gradient between the snow-covered land and the warm offshore currents.\n\nThe polar front theory says that mid-latitude cyclones form on boundaries between warm and cold air. In winter, the polar front shifts towards the Equator, whereas high pressure systems dominate more in the summer.\n\n"}
{"id": "15766262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15766262", "title": "South Pacific High", "text": "South Pacific High\n\nThe South Pacific High is a subtropical anticyclone located in the southeast Pacific Ocean. The area of high atmospheric pressure and the presence of the Humboldt Current in the underlying ocean make the west coast of Peru and northern Chile extremely arid. The Sechura and Atacama deserts, as the whole climate of Chile, are heavily influenced by this semi-permanent high-pressure area.\n"}
{"id": "8594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8594", "title": "Stab-in-the-back myth", "text": "Stab-in-the-back myth\n\nThe stab-in-the-back myth (, ) was the notion, widely believed and promulgated in right-wing circles in Germany after 1918, that the German Army did not lose World War I on the battlefield but was instead betrayed by the civilians on the home front, especially the republicans who overthrew the Hohenzollern monarchy in the German Revolution of 1918–19. Advocates denounced the German government leaders who signed the Armistice on November 11, 1918, as the \"November Criminals\" ().\n\nWhen the Nazi Party came to power in 1933, they made the legend an integral part of their official history of the 1920s, portraying the Weimar Republic as the work of the \"November criminals\" who stabbed the nation in the back to seize power while betraying it. The Nazi propaganda depicted Weimar as \"a morass of corruption, degeneracy, national humiliation, ruthless persecution of the honest 'national opposition'—fourteen years of rule by Jews, Marxists, and 'cultural Bolsheviks', who had at last been swept away by the National Socialist movement under Adolf Hitler and the victory of the 'national revolution' of 1933\".\n\nScholars inside and outside Germany unanimously reject the notion, pointing out the German army was out of reserves, was being overwhelmed by the entrance of the United States into the war, and by late 1918 had lost the war militarily. To many Germans, the expression \"stab in the back\" was evocative of Richard Wagner's 1876 opera \"Götterdämmerung\", in which Hagen murders his enemy Siegfried – the hero of the opera – with a spear in his back.\n\nThe antisemitic instincts of the German Army were revealed well before the stab-in-the-back myth became the military's excuse for losing the war. In October 1916, in the middle of World War I, the army ordered a \"Jewish census\" of the troops, with the intent to show that Jews were under-represented in the \"Reichswehr\" (army), and that they were over-represented in non-fighting positions. Instead, the census showed just the opposite, that Jews were over-represented both in the army as a whole, and in fighting positions at the front. The \"Reichswehr\" then suppressed the results of the census. \n\nIn the later part of the war, Germany was essentially a military dictatorship, with the Supreme High Command (German: OHL, \"Oberste Heeresleitung\") and General Field Marshal Paul von Hindenburg as commander-in-chief advising the Kaiser – although Hindenburg was largely a figurehead, with his Chief-of-Staff, General Erich Ludendorff, actually running the show. After the last German offensive on the Western Front failed in 1918, the war effort was doomed. In response, by autumn, OHL arranged for a rapid change to a civilian government. Ludendorff said:\n\nI have asked His Excellency to now bring those circles to power which we have to thank for coming so far. We will therefore now bring those gentlemen into the ministries. They can now make the peace which has to be made. They can eat the broth which they have prepared for us!\n\nAs the military situation for the Germans on the Western Front became ever more precarious, Prince Maximilian of Baden reached out to the American President Woodrow Wilson, indicating that Germany was willing to accept his Fourteen Points. \nOn November 11, 1918, the representatives of the newly formed Weimar Republic signed an armistice with the Allies which would end World War I. As the Kaiser had been forced to abdicate and the military relinquished executive power, it was the temporary \"civilian government\" that sued for peace—the signature on the armistice document was of Matthias Erzberger, a civilian, who was later murdered for his alleged treason. The subsequent Treaty of Versailles led to further territorial and financial losses. \n\nThe official birth of the term \"stab-in-the-back\" itself possibly can be dated to the autumn of 1919, when Ludendorff was dining with the head of the British Military Mission in Berlin, British general Sir Neill Malcolm. Malcolm asked Ludendorff why it was that he thought Germany lost the war. Ludendorff replied with his list of excuses, including that the home front failed the army.\n\nMalcolm asked him: \"Do you mean, General, that you were stabbed in the back?\" Ludendorff's eyes lit up and he leapt upon the phrase like a dog on a bone. \"Stabbed in the back?\" he repeated. \"Yes, that's it, exactly, we were stabbed in the back\". And thus was born a legend which has never entirely perished.\n\nThe phrase was to Ludendorff's liking, and he let it be known among the general staff that this was the \"official\" version, which led to it being disseminated throughout German society. It was picked up by right-wing political factions, and was even used by Kaiser Wilhelm II in the memoirs he wrote in the 1920s. Right-wing groups used it as a form of attack against the early Weimar Republic government, led by the Social Democratic Party (SPD), which had come to power with the abdication of the Kaiser. However, even the SPD furthered the myth when the party leader, Friedrich Ebert, told troops returning to Berlin that \"No enemy has overcome you.\"\n\nReviews in the German press that grossly misrepresented General Frederick Barton Maurice's book, \"The Last Four Months\", also contributed to the creation of this myth. William Shirer writes that \"Ludendorff made use of the reviews to convince Hindenburg\" about the validity of the myth.\n\nIn 1919, Deutschvölkischer Schutz und Trutzbund leader Alfred Roth, writing under the pseudonym Otto Arnim, published the book \"The Jew in the Army\" which he said was based on evidence gathered during his participation on the \"Judenzählung\", a military census which had in fact shown that German Jews had served in the front lines proportionately to their numbers. Roth's work claimed that most Jews involved in the war were only taking part as profiteers and spies, while he also blamed Jewish officers for fostering a defeatist mentality which impacted negatively on their soldiers. As such, the book offered one of the earliest published versions of the stab-in-the-back legend.\n\nIn November 1919, the newly elected Weimar National Assembly initiated a \"Untersuchungsausschuß für Schuldfragen\" to investigate the causes of the World War and Germany's defeat. On November 18, von Hindenburg testified in front of this parliamentary commission, and cited a December 17, 1918 \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\" article that summarized two earlier articles in the \"Daily Mail\" by British General Frederick Barton Maurice with the phrase that the German army had been \"dagger-stabbed from behind by the civilian populace\" (\"von der Zivilbevölkerung von hinten erdolcht\"). Maurice later disavowed having used the term himself. It was particularly this testimony of Hindenburg that led to the widespread \"Dolchstoßlegende\" in post-World War I Germany.\n\nRichard Steigmann-Gall says that the stab-in-the-back legend traces back to a sermon preached on February 3, 1918, by Protestant Court Chaplain Bruno Doehring, nine months before the war had even ended. German scholar Boris Barth, in contrast to Steigmann-Gall, implies that Doehring did not actually use the term, but spoke only of 'betrayal'. Barth traces the first documented use to a centrist political meeting in the Munich Löwenbräu-Keller on November 2, 1918, in which , a member of the Progressive coalition in the Reichstag, used the term to exhort his listeners to keep fighting:\n\nAs long as the front holds, we damned well have the duty to hold out in the homeland. We would have to be ashamed of ourselves in front of our children and grandchildren if we attacked the battle front from the rear and gave it a dagger-stab. (\"wenn wir der Front in den Rücken fielen und ihr den Dolchstoß versetzten.)\"\n\nBarth also shows that the term was primarily popularized by the patriotic German newspaper \"Deutsche Tageszeitung\" that repeatedly quoted the \"Neue Zürcher\" article after Hindenburg had referred to it in front of the parliamentary inquiry commission.\n\nCharges of a Jewish conspiratorial element in Germany's defeat drew heavily upon figures like Kurt Eisner, a Berlin-born German Jew who lived in Munich. He had written about the illegal nature of the war from 1916 onward, and he also had a large hand in the Munich revolution until he was assassinated in February 1919. The Weimar Republic under Friedrich Ebert violently suppressed workers' uprisings with the help of Gustav Noske and Reichswehr General Groener, and tolerated the paramilitary Freikorps forming all across Germany. In spite of such tolerance, the Republic's legitimacy was constantly attacked with claims such as the stab-in-the-back. Many of its representatives such as Matthias Erzberger and Walther Rathenau were assassinated, and the leaders were branded as \"criminals\" and Jews by the right-wing press dominated by Alfred Hugenberg.\n\nThe noted German historian Friedrich Meinecke attempted to trace the roots of the expression in a June 11, 1922 article in the Viennese newspaper \"Neue Freie Presse\". In the 1924 national election, the Munich cultural journal \"Süddeutsche Monatshefte\" published a series of articles blaming the SPD and trade unions for Germany's defeat in World War I, which came out during the trial of Adolf Hitler and Ludendorff for high treason following the Beer Hall Putsch in 1923. The editor of an SPD newspaper sued the journal for defamation, giving rise to what is known as the \"Munich Dolchstoßprozess\" from October 19 to November 20, 1925. Many prominent figures testified in that trial, including members of the parliamentary committee investigating the reasons for the defeat, so some of its results were made public long before the publication of the committee report in 1928.\n\nThe \"Dolchstoß\" was a central image in propaganda produced by the many right-wing and traditionally conservative political parties that sprang up in the early days of the Weimar Republic, including Hitler's NSDAP. For Hitler himself, this explanatory model for World War I was of crucial personal importance. He had learned of Germany's defeat while being treated for temporary blindness following a gas attack on the front. In \"Mein Kampf\", he described a vision at this time which drove him to enter politics. Throughout his career, he railed against the \"November criminals\" of 1918, who had stabbed the German Army in the back.\n\nEven provisional President Friedrich Ebert contributed to the myth when he saluted returning veterans with the oration that \"no enemy has vanquished you\" (\"kein Feind hat euch überwunden!\") and \"they returned undefeated from the battlefield\" (\"sie sind vom Schlachtfeld unbesiegt zurückgekehrt\") on November 10, 1918. The latter quote was shortened to \"im Felde unbesiegt\" (\"undefeated on the battlefield\") as a semi-official slogan of the \"Reichswehr\". Ebert had meant these sayings as a tribute to the German soldier, but it only contributed to the prevailing feeling.\n\nA version of the stab-in-the-back myth was publicized in 1922 by German anti-Semitic theorist Alfred Rosenberg in his primary contribution to Nazi theory on Zionism, \"Der Staatsfeindliche Zionismus\" (\"Zionism, the Enemy of the State\"). Rosenberg accused German Zionists of working for a German defeat and supporting Britain and the implementation of the Balfour Declaration.\n\nThe theme of stab-in-the-back was articulated in 1919 most prominently by General Erich Ludendorff, one of the two top German commanders. He blamed the Berlin government and the civilian population for the armistice/surrender of November 1918, saying they had failed to support him, had let him down, and had proved themselves unworthy of the traditions of a fighting nation. He popularized the \"Dolchstoß\" terminology, and became a prominent right-wing leader in the 1920s.\n\nConservatives, nationalists and ex-military leaders began to speak critically about the peace and Weimar politicians, socialists, communists, Jews, and sometimes even Catholics were viewed with suspicion due to presumed extra-national loyalties. It was claimed that they had not supported the war and had played a role in selling out Germany to its enemies. These \"November Criminals\", or those who seemed to benefit from the newly formed Weimar Republic, were seen to have \"stabbed them in the back\" on the home front, by either criticizing German nationalism, instigating unrest and strikes in the critical military industries or profiteering. In essence, the accusation was that the accused committed treason against the \"benevolent and righteous\" common cause. These theories were given credence by the fact that when Germany surrendered in November 1918, its armies were still occupying French and Belgian territory, Berlin remained 450 miles from the nearest front, and the German armies retired from the field of battle in good order.\n\nThe Allies had been amply resupplied by the United States, which also had fresh armies ready for combat, but the UK and France were too war-weary to contemplate an invasion of Germany with its unknown consequences. On the Western Front, although the Hindenburg Line had been penetrated and German forces were in retreat, the Allied army had not reached the western German frontier, and on the Eastern Front, Germany had already won the war against Russia, concluded with the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. In the West, Germany had had successes with the Spring Offensive. Contributing to the \"Dolchstoßlegende\", its failure was blamed on strikes in the arms industry at a critical moment of the offensive, leaving soldiers without an adequate supply of materiel. The strikes were seen to be instigated by treasonous elements, with the Jews taking most of the blame.\n\nThe weakness of Germany's strategic position was exacerbated by the rapid collapse of the other Central Powers in late 1918, following Allied victories on the Macedonian and Italian fronts. Bulgaria was the first to sign an armistice on September 29, 1918, at Salonica. On October 30 the Ottoman Empire capitulated at Mudros. On November 3 Austria-Hungary sent a flag of truce to ask for an armistice. The terms, arranged by telegraph with the Allied Authorities in Paris, were communicated to the Austrian commander and accepted. The Armistice with Austria-Hungary was signed in the Villa Giusti, near Padua, on November 3. Austria and Hungary signed separate treaties following the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian empire.\n\nNevertheless, the idea of domestic betrayal resonated among its audience, and its claims would provide some basis for public support for the emerging National Socialist Party, under an autocratic and chauvinistic form of nationalism. Anti-Jewish sentiment was intensified by the Bavarian Soviet Republic, a Communist government which ruled the city of Munich for two weeks before being crushed by the Freikorps militia. Many of the Bavarian Soviet Republic's leaders were Jewish, allowing anti-Jewish propagandists to connect Jews with Communism (and thus treason).\n\nRichard M. Hunt argues in his 1958 article that the myth was an irrational belief which commanded the force of irrefutable emotional convictions for millions of Germans. He suggests that behind these myths was a sense of communal shame, not for causing the war, but for losing it. Hunt argues that it was not the guilt of wickedness, but the shame of weakness that seized Germany's national psychology, and \"served as a solvent of the Weimar democracy and also as an ideological cement of Hitler's dictatorship\".\n\nThe Allied policy of unconditional surrender was devised in 1943 in part to avoid a repetition of the stab-in-the-back theme. According to historian John Wheeler-Bennett, speaking from the British perspective,It was necessary for the Nazi régime and/or the German Generals to surrender unconditionally in order to bring home to the German people that they had lost the War by themselves; so that their defeat should not be attributed to a \"stab in the back\".\n\nParallel interpretations of national trauma after military defeat appear in other countries. For example, it was used regarding the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War, without the anti-Semitic slant. The song \"The Battle-Hymn of Lieutenant Calley\" claims that \"While we're fighting in the jungles they were marching in the street. / While we're dying in the rice fields they were helping our defeat. / While we're facing V.C. bullets they were sounding a retreat\". See also Vietnam Syndrome.\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "3229271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3229271", "title": "Sugud Islands Marine Conservation Area", "text": "Sugud Islands Marine Conservation Area\n\nThe Sugud Islands Marine Conservation Area or SIMCA is a \"Category II MPA\" in Beluran district in Sabah, Malaysia, comprising Lankayan Island, Billean, Tegaipil and surrounding waters. The government of Sabah, Malaysia prohibits in the area, a total of over 463 square kilometres, all resource harvesting (including all capturing of live creatures) and charges a fee to all visitors of the area.\n"}
{"id": "26334743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26334743", "title": "The Amsterdam Global Conference on Sustainability and Transparency", "text": "The Amsterdam Global Conference on Sustainability and Transparency\n\nThe Amsterdam Global Conference on Sustainability and Transparency was held for the third time in May 2010. Over the years, the conference has seen the world’s largest gathering of leaders, thinkers and doers in the field of sustainability reporting, with debates being convened on how reporting can be used to help build a better future. Thought leaders from business, finance, government and civil society have been brought together to debate the political, strategic and practical choices confronting the world and expert practitioners have led workshops and interactive sessions to define the building blocks of more effective reporting.\n\nThe first Amsterdam Global Conference on Sustainability and Transparency, held by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), took place in October 2006, with over 1,200 participants. In May 2008, the second Amsterdam Global Conference was held. This climate neutral conference brought together over 1,000 participants from 58 countries. The 2010 Amsterdam Global Conference on Sustainability and Transparency was held from 26–28 May 2010 at the Amsterdam RAI Exhibition and Convention Centre in The Netherlands.\n\nThe third GRI Global Conference on Sustainability and Transparency attracted more participants than ever before and from a greater number of countries. in 2010, 77 countries were represented with over 1200 attendees. Participants enjoyed a diverse range of topics in 60 main hall, parallel, and academic sessions on best practices in ESG disclosure and the future of sustainability reporting.\n\nDuring the Opening Plenary, GRI’s chief executive Ernst Ligteringen outlined two goals for the next decade: \n\n\nOver 1000 participants from more than 50 countries attended each of the first biennial conferences in 2006 and 2008. Of the participants, over 40% came from countries outside of Europe. 10% of participants at the previous two conferences were CEO/Board of Director level, and over 30% were vice presidents, senior managers, or heads of departments. Industries represented included automotive, food and beverage, mining and metals, apparel, IT, oil and gas, construction and real estate, media, telecommunications, and logistics. In addition representatives from finance, NGOs, accountancy, government and regulatory bodies attended the previous two conferences.\n\nConference speaker alumni include:\n\nThis conference was organized by Global Reporting Initiative based in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. The Global Reporting Initiative has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. This framework sets out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance.\n\n\nIntegrated reporting\nSocially responsible investing\nCorporate social responsibility\n"}
{"id": "30034447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30034447", "title": "Tony Mangan", "text": "Tony Mangan\n\nTony Mangan (born 20 April 1957 in Dublin) is an ultra distance runner from Ireland. He completed on 27 October 2014 a 50 000 km distance running around the world for Aware, a charity helping to defeat depression. He is the current world 48-hour indoor track record holder 426.178 km. Also the world 48-hour treadmill record 405.22 km. Mangan states, \"I didn't start running till I was almost 30. Then I dreamed of running around the World. I got delayed for over 20 years for many reasons, breaking a few world ultra records. Now I am retired from competition I can finally live my dream.\"\n\nTony's \"World Jog\", began with his participation in the Dublin Marathon on 25 October 2010. He moved from east to west, commencing in Ireland North America, before proceeding to Central and South America and on to Australia, Asia and Europe before returning to Ireland. He finished on 27 October 2014, to finish where he started with the Dublin marathon.\n\nMangan’s completed a distance of approximately 50 000 km over a four-year period of near-continuous travel. This involves running roughly the distance of a marathon per day. Mangan made the journey as continuous as possible on a world map. Each day he ran with his buggy, named Nirvana, which is best known in the U.S. as a runner’s stroller. It has one small wheel in the front and two large ones in the back. Mangan packs a tent, tarp, extra shoes, clothes and some food where most runners would sit an infant or toddler.\n\nCurrent World 48-hour indoor track record holder. In 2007 Tony Mangan received the IAU (International Association of Ultrarunners) recognition for \"the new World Best Performance 48h indoor by Men\" for his extraordinary race, 426.178 km ran during the Jami BRNO Spring Ultramarathon, 48h Indoor. This was also the first time in history that a runner has run 200 km for two consecutive days. On day one Tony ran 223 km while on day two he ran 203 km. He is also known for his 48h treadmill records. Tony's 48-hour treadmill attempt record was registered in 2003 along with a 24‑hour treadmill world record. His 48-hour performance was broken in 2004 by another runner but Tony regained his status at the Longford marathon expo in 2008 when he ran the \"greatest distance travelled on a treadmill in 48 hours, \", result acknowledged by the Guinness World Records.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8647217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8647217", "title": "Transcritical cycle", "text": "Transcritical cycle\n\nA transcritical cycle is a thermodynamic cycle where the working fluid goes through both Subcritical and supercritical states. This is often the case when carbon dioxide, CO, is the refrigerant.\n\nThe modern transcritical cycle was developed in 1988–1991 by the Norwegian professor Gustav Lorentzen (1915–1995) and his team.\n"}
{"id": "10857373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10857373", "title": "Valley exit jet", "text": "Valley exit jet\n\nA valley exit jet is a strong, down-valley, elevated air current that emerges above the intersection of the valley and its adjacent plain. These winds frequently reach a maximum of at a height of above the ground. Surface winds below the jet may sway vegetation but are significantly weaker.\n\nThe presence of these strong nighttime down-valley air flows has been documented at the mouth of many Alpine valleys that merge with basins, such as the Inn Valley of Austria, where the jet is strong enough to be heard at the ground. In the United States, exit jet signatures have been observed at the North Fork Gunnison River at Paonia, Colorado, the exit of South Boulder Creek south of Boulder, Colorado and the mouth of Spanish Fork Canyon in Utah.\n\nExit jets are likely to be found in valley regions that exhibit diurnal mountain wind systems, such as those of the dry mountain ranges of the US. These diurnal wind systems are driven by horizontal pressure gradients. Due to the abrupt transition over a short distance between the valley high pressure and the basin low pressure, the gradients are strongest near the valley exit, producing a jet.\n\nOther meteorological factors acting to increase exit wind speeds are the acceleration of winds originating inside the valley as they travel to lower elevations downvalley, and the process of cold valley air sinking and ejecting into the plain. Deep valleys that terminate abruptly at a plain are more impacted by these factors than are those that gradually become shallower as downvalley distance increases.\n\nValley exit jets can play a major role in the mitigation of air pollution: \n\nMethods of examining exit jets include remote sensing and direct observation. SODAR and Doppler LIDAR have been used in numerous studies to identify, quantify and relate the jets to atmospheric transport of hazardous materials. Detailed profiles of winds at canyon exits can be directly observed and calculated using a single or double theodolite and tethersondes.\n\nThe identification and measurement of valley exit jets can also significantly aid in fire control and the development of wind energy, as fire often rides valley jets.\n"}
{"id": "10019161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10019161", "title": "Vicki Hearne", "text": "Vicki Hearne\n\nVictoria Elizabeth \"Vicki\" Hearne (February 13, 1946 – August 21, 2001) was an American author, philosopher, poet, animal trainer, and scholar of literary criticism and linguistics.\n\nShe was born in Austin, Texas, but, because her father was an Air Force Officer, her childhood was spent in a number of Air Force Bases. The last, where her father retired, was in Riverside, California, where she attended the University of California. There, Hearne received her B.A. in English. She subsequently spent more than twenty-five years studying animal behavior as a horse and dog trainer. Central to Hearne's view on animal training was her belief that animals should not be defined by behaviorists' dictates, that in their individuality they have the capacity to be in reciprocal relationships with humans both emotionally and morally. In addition to her poetry, she authored several books on animals and animal-training theory, including \"Adam's Task\", \"Bandit\", and \"Animal Happiness\". She received a 1992 award for outstanding literary achievement from the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\n\nIn the mid-1980s she was offered an appointment at Yale, inducing a move from California to Connecticut. Eventually, she settled in Westbrook, Connecticut. While in Connecticut, she appeared in the Oscar-nominated short documentary, \"A Little Vicious\".\n\nBefore she died she was an author of many beautiful pieces of work including; \"News from the Dogs\", \"Young Dog, Grass and More\", and \"Trained Man and Dog\"\n\nShe died at the age of 55 of lung cancer at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, attended by her daughter Colleen Lehrman from a previous marriage, her husband Robert Tragesser and her brother, James Hearne. She was in addition survived by her father, William Victor Hearne.\n\n\n"}
